fesycSTi

LI B RAR.Y

OF THE

UN Diversity

or ILLINOIS

v/. I

REMINGTON & Co.

i8 HENRIETTA ST, COVENT GARDEN

/^i!^^^

e.' (J

7b

}y- ^" ^'-''^^j v^^j c^'^^x ^y-

THE RIVAL QUEENS ^

5j^.^-^.r-K^^ c= - >^c". ^^-r - P^

MEMOIRS OF SAMUEL PHELPS.

BY

JOHN COLEMAN.

1 Vol., Demy 8vo, with Portrait, Gs.

A readable, interesting, and impressive story of a remarkable
actor's life." — Daily Telegraph.

"No one who wishes or requires to know the realities of
English dramatic life during th<- past fifty years can afford to
overlook this chatty and interesting volume." — Contemporary
Review.

Above all things eminently readable, full of good stories,
and written throughout with vigour and aplomh"— Globe.

One of the brightest and best biographies 1 have met with.
. . Teems with interest from the first page to the last." — Society.

"Most entertaining — all is told with excellent spirit." —
Graphic.

Mr. Coleman tells his story with heroic tenderness." —
Whitehall Review.

Most interesting." — St. James' Gazette.

Will be eagerly devoured by thousands of playgoers. ' —
Theatre.

The moving incidents of Phelps' life are here set down in
charming vividness. As we read we seem to know the man, to
see, t(< speak to him ; and perforce to love him. With what almost
devouring interest do we watch his career — until he died full of
honour and of fame.

'' And with what dramatic power and grace does John Coleman
tell his almost sacred story.

Were Fortune to grant me fame, and Providence a friend,
I could wish no better hand to write my epitaph than that which
has given to us this manly and noble picture of Samuel Phelps."
Dramatic Review.

"Should be read by all who are interested in the history of
the stage." — Liverpool Courier.

The early struggles of the great actor are luminously set
forth ; indeed, the first part of the book reads like a romance of
strong interest," — Yorkshire Post.

A delightful and useful book, with all the fascination and
interest of romance." — Leeds Express.

A biography more interesting has seldom, if ever, appeared."
North British Daily Mail.

Thoroughly readable from beginning to end, and histrionic
students may find much instruction as well as amusement in its
discursive but always entertaining chapters." — E. L. Blanch ard
in Birmingham Gazette.

REMINGTON & Co., Henrietta Street, Covent Garden.

A STORY OF THE MODERN STAGE

IN THREE V O L U :\I E S
BY

JOHN COLEMAN

Author of " Curly : — An Actor's Story" " Memoirs of Samuel Phelps
Reminiscences of Charles Treacle '' &c

And one was far apart, and one was near :
Ay, ay, O ay — the winds that bow the grass !
And one was water, and one star was fire.
And one will ever shine, and one will pass,
Ay, ay, O ay— the winds that move the mere ! "

Tennyson

VOL I

REMINGTON AND CO PUBLISHERS
HENRIETTA STREET COVENT GARDEN


[All Rights Reserve]

C (^17^

i/.f

CONTENTS.

PROLOGUE.

THE WHITE Lady OF ROSE-mount.


BOOK THE FIRST.

CHAP.

I. Love, Lord of All .

II. Romeo and Juliet

III. " The Girls they left Behind Them " .

BOOK THE SECOND.

ROBERT Pearson's
NARRATIVE.

CHAP.

PAGE




PAGE

THE WHITE Lady OF Remount.

*' Yet here for me, though heart and will are master
As strong as iron and as calm as death,
The will will waver, and the heart beat faster.
Touched by the memory of a woman's breath."
Herman Derivable.

People said the Theatre House at Rose-mount
was haunted, and so it was — one
room especially — a strange, weird room — a
room with crannies and niches, and cupboards
and cabinets, and a huge embayed
VOL. L B

window, in front of which stood the noblest
minster in all broad England, perhaps in all
the world.

Besides the choice pictures, the quaint
furniture, and rare books, this room was
filled with rarer memories.

If it could but speak, what strange stories
it could tell !

In this house, more than a century ago,
the poor conjuring Savoy parson's famous
son, whom beautiful, cruel Peg Washington
drove penniless from London, found a home.

Here, in this very room, he entertained the
learned Bruin and obsequious Bozzy, on their
way back from the Hebrides ; and the Doctor
smacked his hips over the larded capon and
the good red wine, while he thanked God
he was in a Christian land once more, and on
his way back to Fleet Street.

Here jovial James Quin discussed John
Dory, the Duke's venison, and the Bishop's
claret with honest Tate.

Here the great little Davy (prince of actors
and of gentlemen) '' set the table on a roar "
at the expense of insolent Sam Foote. Here
young Dick Sheridan lost his last shilling at
Faro, and then borrowed ten guineas to take
him to town.

Here, too, the red-coated bullies demanded
that gaunt John Kemble should apologize for
becoming pretty Elizabeth Inchbald's champion,
what time the brave lad, fresh from
Douay, said, '' My father is a gentleman, and
my father's son can never be cajoled or coerced
into an act unworthy of a gentleman. I will
not apologize !"

Here great Sarah Siddons, descending
from her pedestal, '' took snuff sometimes,
and sometimes tea."

Here, too, a wretched, ragged girl from Ireland,
stood trembling before the despot of the
North— a girl hereafter destined to witch all
eyes and win all hearts, as the spirit of comedy
incarnate, in the form of Dorothea Jordan.

Here reckless, dissolute George Frederick
Cooke — and, later, the divine Edmund,
greatest of actors and blackguards — became
*' o'er all the ills of life victorious."

Here John Emery, little Knight, Liston,
and the elder Mathews came, quaking to
hear the managerial verdict — actor or no
actor?

Here Ellison, the Dean, and the manager,
got 'regal " together.

Here, too, in later days, gallant Charles
Kemble, classic Charles Young, grim Macready,
'' Gladiator " Forrest, rare old Sam
Phelps, genial Charles Kean, '' Bucky " Ben
Webster, the fascinating Fetter, the ever-young
Charles Mathews, poor Gus Brooke,
glorious Charles Dickens, and leonine Charles
Reade have sat and laughed '' o'er the walnuts
and the wine," and many a time and oft
have helped to speed the happy hours away.

Alas ! the days that are no more !

Here, too, on this bleak winter's night, sat

Frank Fairfax, the manager of the Great
Northern Circuit, reading the faces In the
fire, and conjuring up, amidst the glowing
embers, " the loved, the lost, the distant and
the dead."

Suddenly a loud double '' rat-tat " disturbed
his reverie.

Footsteps on the stairs followed ; then a
gentle tap at the door of the historic room
here described.

'' Come in," said the manager.

To him enters Brown, his valet, with a
telegram.

Any answer, sir? "

'' No."

'' Please, sir, boy says, may he go Into the
pit ? "

'' Oh, yes — that is, if there is any room."
Then, looking at his watch, " Stop ! how
came it that this was not delivered before?"

'' Boy said It was delayed in transmission,

in consequence of snow deranging wires,
sir."

'' Confound the snow! It may delay the
train as well. We haven't a moment to lose.
Go to the station, Brown. Mind you are
there at a quarter to ten. Have a cab ready
to meet the express from the North. There
will be a young lady in the train — tall, slight,
fair hair, dark eyes and eyebrows. You can't
mistake her. Make my compliments — say I
have had a busy day at Castletown or I
would have met her myself. Bring her
here.

'' Stay ! When you have brought her, run
round to Mrs. Macnamara and secure Miss
Vigo's rooms as soon as she leaves for Newcastle.
Post these letters as you pass the
post-oflRce. Send these telegrams, and tell
Mrs. Brown to come up immediately. Sharp's
the word. Look alive." And off went Brown.

The manager sighed as he murmured —

'* Twenty years ago ! and yet it seems as
if it were but yesterday !

She was a flirt, and I was a fool ; but heat
least, knew his own mind — the scoundrel !

'' Yes, and he subdued her to his stronger
will. If I had only spoken then !

''Ah! well — 'He who will not, when he
may — ' "

Another tap at the door, and Mrs. Brown,
the housekeeper, enters.

Mrs. Brown," said Fairfax, "in an hour's
time let me have a plate of soup, an omelette,
a maccaroni cheese, a pint of mulled claret,
and a bottle of Roederer. In an hour, you
understand."

Yes, sir."

And tell Emma to clear my traps out, and
put them in the Ghost Room."

The G — ghost Room, sir? "

Yes, and be sure there are roaring fires.
A young lady, who is coming, will sleep in
my room to-night, and I'll take the other."

'' Lord, sir, you don't mean — "

'' Yes, I do ; so off you go, and be quick
about the supper."

And away went Mrs. Brown, sorely
exercised in her mind about her instructions.

The manager paced up and down in agitation,
and half muttered to himself, half
murmured aloud —

'' Yes, it all comes back. We were to
have met as usual on the top of the Calton
Hill at two o'clock.

'' I was at my post an hour before my time.
The place was deserted. I sat looking at the
blue Firth, counting the tardy minutes. Then
I lighted a weed, and lost myself in a day-dream
— how happy we should be together —
she and I.

'^ I was brought back to earth by voices —
hers and his. The sound arose from beneath
my feet, ever so far down below.

I rose, and looked over the edge of the

precipice. I saw them — I can see them now
■ — as he held her to his breast, and forced a
ring upon her finger. I thought she seemed
to struggle for one moment — but the next
- — their lips met — and then — ! "

The very hour after that on which he discovered
the treachery of his friend and the
falseness of his sweetheart, Fairfax broke his
engagement, shook the dust of Edinburgh
from his feet, turned his face to the south,
and from that time he never crossed the Border
again — never again looked upon her face in
life ; and yet, even now, he saw a fair young
girl and a boy strolling hand in hand together,
plucking flowers on the Calton Hill on the
young May morning, all those long years ago.

Then came the obverse of the picture. He,
that other one — the false friend, the profligate,
the drunkard — he who had embittered the life
of her whom he had sworn to love and
cherish.

"D — n him ! Oh! d — n him ! " exclaimed
Fairfax, chafing with the memory of that
unforgotten, unforgiven wrong.

After a time he paused and softened. Then
he drew two letters from his breast coat
pocket ; the first was written in a feeble,
feminine hand ; it was blotted here and there,
and ran thus : —

'' Dear Frank,

'' May I call you so once more for
the sake of auld lang syne ?

'' Though so many years have passed since
we parted, I have never lost sight of your
bright career; I have always rejoiced in your
triumphs, though, alas! — Well, well — you
have been amply avenged by my most unhappy
marriage.

'* Long before I became a widow my sole
consolation was my child, my little Clara,
soon, I fear, to be left an orphan. She was
eighteen last birthday. Though proud and
impetuous, she is tender, truthful, and affectionate.

I hope a mother's partiality does not
mislead me, but I really think that there is a
great future before her. My poor darling is
eating her heart out in these obscure places,
and she has made me write you.

'' It has been a great effort, for I am very
feeble to-day.

'' Frank, dear Frank, you will help my poor
child for ' Maria's ' sake, won't you ? I can
write no more ; it has become all at once
so—"

Here the letter terminated abruptly.

The manager paused, overcome with
emotion. After awhile, he read the other
letter, which was written in bold and
vigorous characters, and was to this effect : —

Ivy Villa,

'' Kilmarnock,

'december isti, 187—.
'' Dear Mr. Fairfax,

'' I send you my mother's letter just

as she left it. After she had written the last
line, she said to me —

^ It is very dark, my child.'

*' Alas ! The darkness was in her own
eyes. An hour afterwards she had found the
light !

'' I am grateful to God that her sufferings
are at an end ; of late they have been more
than she could endure, or I could bear to see.

Your name was the last upon her lips.

I feel how almost indelicate it may appear
to broach such a subject at such a time,
but I have now to face the world alone.

'' If it should please you to entrust me with
an engagement in your company, I will endeavour
to merit your commendation.
'' I am,

'' Dear Mr. Fairfax,

'' Most respectfully yours,
'' Clara Trevor."

As he returned the letters to his breast, he
murmured, " Poor child ! Poor mother ! "

More than twenty years ago Frank Fairfax
made his first appearance at the Theatre
Royal, Edinburgh, as Charles Surface.

On that occasion he met for the first time,
Lucy Seymour. She was the 'maria" of
the comedy ; it is but a small part, but
'' amidst the follies, the vanities, the deceits
and vices " of the fashionable crew of scandal-mongers
by which she is surrounded, this
simple country maiden stands out an angel of
innocence and purity.

How well he recalled the young, frank,
lovely face, the symmetrical figure, the simple
white muslin frock, the bunches of black
ribbon, the large Leghorn hat, the sunny
glory of the golden hair, the lustrous, timid,
dark eyes.

As he spoke the concluding lines —

Though thou, dear maid, shouldst waive thy beauty's

sway,
Thou still must rule, because I will obey,"

he stooped and kissed her hand. He could

see her now as she flushed to the temples,
and looked up with her great wondering eyes
into his — and then — he —

Psha ! " he exclaimed aloud, as he started
up impatiently, '' what avails regret ? Regret
cannot recall the dead, and as for me,
I'll stand

As if a man were author of himself,
And knew no other kin.'

Hark! what's that?"

The loud rattle of carriage wheels, followed
by a louder rat-tat at the door.

A moment later, and Brown announces,
'miss Trevor." The quick, light step of an
elastic foot, the rustle of a woman's dress is
heard, and Clara Trevor stands in the doorway.

The cynic, who a moment ago resolved to
stand henceforth alone — the man whose
dreary home had never been illumined by the
light of a woman's smile, or made glad by
the music of a woman's voice — stands spellbound
as the apparition of the lost love

of his youth starts into Hfe again before
him.

The girl had bounded forward, as if about
to spring into the room, but paused and stood
upon the threshold irresolute, as if uncertain
of her welcome.

Her little sealskin hat had fallen from her
head, her beautiful hair, released at that very
moment from its confines, fell in thick flakes
of burnished gold down her shoulders and
below her waist, over a rough cloak or coat
of fulvous vecuna, on the right arm of which
she wore a large black band of crape. Her
cheeks were suffused with blushes, her eyes
were fixed full on him, as if timidly appealing.

He looked at her and through her, to years
gone by, but stood still and spoke not.

She trembled and turned pale as death.

At last he extended his arms, and then,
with a great tremor in his voice, as if in a
dream, he uttered one word, and only one —
it was 'maria!"

She understood the meaning and the
memory, and ere the sound had faded from
his hips she lay sobbing on his breast.

He caressed and soothed her. Then he
said — 'you know me?"

'' Know you ? " she answered, smiHng
through her tears, '' I should have known
you anywhere from mamma's description.
She has told me of you so often that I feel
as if I had known you all my life."

'' You have your mother's eyes, your
mother's smile, your mother's voice, child,"
he replied, gravely. Then, ringing the bell,
he desired the servant to show the girl to her
room.

While she is taking off her wraps above let
me endeavour to describe the man in the
room below.

He was about forty-five, but might have
passed for ten years younger. Tall, straight
as a dart, rather slender, hair of deep brown,

a little streaked with grey at the temples, a
massive brow, piercing grey eyes, a straight
Grecian nose, oval face, mouth firm, almost
severe. He had a somewhat repellant demeanour
to strangers or intruders — a sort of
'* stand off " air — but to those who knew him
and esteemed him, whether in the theatre orin
society, he was both engaging and complaisant.
He had literary tastes, wielded a
facile and a fertile pen, was an admirable and
accomplished actor and a great stage manager,
and he knew it ; so did everyone for
that matter.

His whole career had been one social and
artistic triumph, and yet he thought, on this
particular night — yes — he — whatever he
thought, his speculations were cut short by
the return of his protegee.

Truly she made a charming picture, with
her black cashmere dress, fastened up to the
throat, with its plain bands of white at the

VOL. I. C

neck and wrists, and a jet buckle at the
slender waist. This simple costume displayed
to rare advantage the graceful curves and
exquisite undulations of her supple and beautiful
figure.

She took the head of the table, as if she
had been accustomed to it.

It seemed as if it really were as she had
said — that she had known him all her life ;
and, for his part, he felt as if he had taken
up some link in his past existence that had
been lost ever so long ago.

After supper he opened his cigar-case and
said —

'may I?"

'' Certainly," she replied, '' if I may light
it for you. I always lighted papa's."

A slight cloud came over his brow. He
hesitated a moment, and then said —

'' Very well, you shall light mine if you
will call me papa."

'* May I ? " she inquired, shyly.

Yes," he answered ; '' and I will call you
Clara."

They chatted away until he had finished
his cigar. Then he rang the bell, and said —
To-morrow you shall do as you please, but
I must be master to-night. You had better
go to bed, child."

"You forget; you promised to call me
Clara, papa."

'' Well, Clara, then. God bless you,
Clara."

And he kissed her, as her father might have
done, as he bade her good-night.

When she reached her room (his chamber
that was) she heard the moaning of the
wind soughing round the gables of the old
house. Save for this gruesome sound, all
was still. The theatre was over long ago,
and the heart of the city was at rest.

From afar, through the stillness of the
night, came the shriek of the steam whistle

and the throbbing of the engine, as the iron
horse ploughed his way through the snow upto
the bleak North.

The great bell of the minster tolled the
midnight hour. The sound vibrated through
the house, which it filled with a strange,
weird music ; then each church tower in
the city rang out its answer, and ere the
melody had melted into morning she lay
sleeping with a smile upon her lips.

Meanwhile the lonely man below still sat
reading the faces in the fire.

At last he started up, ejaculating sadly and
bitterly — '' And she might have been my
child ! "

Passing forth, he paused upon the landing
while he called for his valet.

*' Have you taken those rooms for Miss
Trevor?" he inquired.

'' No, sir ; it was too late."

'^ Very well, then ; I've altered my mind,

and you needn't trouble Mrs. Macnamara.
Good-night."

Good-night, sir,"

And with that Fairfax entered the Ghost
Room.

A strange eerie place it was ; so, in fact,
was the theatre itself. It was built amidst
the ruins of an ancient convent, many of the
walls of which had been utilized in the construction.
The pit was laid over the oldest
Norman arch in England, and in excavating
the '' well " of the stage a subterranean passage
had been discovered which communicated
with the abbey on the other side the
river's bank.

From time immemorial the legend of 'the
White Ladyee " had permeated the place.
It was an all too common story of the Dark
Ages. A poor nun, who had been faithless
to her vows, had been buried alive with her
baby in a niche within those gloomy walls.

There was not a servant about the theatre
who was not prepared to swear that he or she
had seen at some time or other the apparition
of 'the White Ladyee" in or about, going
into, or coming out of, the *' Ghost '^ Room.

Leigh, the London manager, an old chum
of Fairfax's, slept there one night. He
declared that at six o'clock in the morning,
in the open day, with the summer sun
streaming through the window, he awoke and
saw a beautiful young woman in a nun's
habit, with a baby in her arms, standing at
the foot of his bed ; that he got up to speak
to her ; that she disappeared through a
recess, which he opened, and found to be a
false cupboard, merely masking a niche in
the old convent wall. Whether this was an
hallucination or not, it is certain that,
although he had accepted an invitation to
remain for a week, Leigh precipitately left
Rosemount the very next morning.

The wealth of the Indies would not have
tempted Mrs. Brown to have slept a single
night in the haunted chamber, and whenever
that estimable woman arranged the room
she always had Emma, the housemaid, to
assist her, and Brown within hail.

Fairfax, however, did not believe in ghosts ;
he used to say he had seen too many of them
—from ^'The Bleeding Nun" and '^ The
Castle Spectre " up to '' The Corsican
Brothers."

Yet, sceptic as he was, that night Frank
Fairfax saw, or perhaps he only dreamt
that he saw, a ghost !

As he laid his head upon the pillow, fixing
his eyes upon the fading fire, which filled the
room with a dim, mystic light, the face which
had haunted him all through the night
emerged from the embers and grew and grew
until it took the shadowy semblance of a fair
woman in white, with bunches of transparent

black about her lovely shoulders ; a large
fleecy hat, with gauze-like ribbons, thin as a
spider's web, hung from her slender wrist ;
thick, long flakes of fair hair streamed down
her shoulders, around her fair head was a
golden nimbus, beneath which her large dark
eyes shone like stars.

The shadow glided towards him, and he
faced it without fear. It placed its arms
around his neck, and pushed the hair from
his brow, and kissed him, and murmured in a
low, soft voice —

Love her, Frank dear, love her! "

Then he made answer —

'^ Oh ! my love, my lost love ! I will be a
father to her for your dear sake ! "

Whereupon 'the White Ladyee" smiled
with a radiant smile, and kept watch over his
pillow while he slept, and chased the evil
spirits of the night away.

LOVE, LORD OF ALL.

Love lacked a dwelling, and made him her place."
« * • #

** She lifted up her eyes
And loved him with that love which was her doom."

Three years had passed rapidly away since
Clara Trevor's advent at Rosemount — three
years of happiness for Fairfax and his adopted
daughter — who had become light, life, air,
and sunshine to him. For those three years

he had been brighter and happier than he had
ever been since that day on the Calton so
long ago.

Had she been his own flesh and blood
she could not have been nearer or dearer to
him. As for her, she adored the very ground
on which he walked.

It was a blessed night for both when that
train from the north brought the orphan girl
to the theatre house at Rosemount.

Her mother had not overrated the girl's
ability. In addition to the breeding and education
of a gentlewoman, she had all the gifts
requisite for her art. A magnificent physique,
a wonderful voice, an emotional temperament,
vivid imagination, acute sensibility, poetic
fancy, a quick study, the natural instinct of
rhythm, both of voice and motion, combined
with industry, application, sincerity, earnestness,
and power. Obviously time and opportunity
were only needed to enable her to
develop into a great actress.

By degrees, and with admirable tact, Fairfax
advanced her step by step, until she
had almost reached the topmost rung of the
ladder. His perfect mastery of the grammar
of the stage rendered him an invaluable
preceptor, and she was an apt pupil.

Then her youth, her beauty (for she had
ripened into a woman of surpassing loveliness),
and her accomplishments combined
not only to make her a valuable acquisition
to the company, but a great popular favourite ;
indeed, she had already become the most
successful leading lady known in the circuit
since the days of the Siddons and the Jordan.

Her attraction was perhaps enhanced by
her inaccessibility. No Infanta of Spain
was ever more jealously guarded.

Her studies were all-engrossing, and when
it is remembered that she roamed from night
to night, from Lady Teazle to Lady Macbeth,
from Beatrice to Rosalind, from Portia to
Parthenon, it will be obvious that she had

little leisure. Fairfax's society (of which she
had a monopoly) was enough for her ; then,
besides the fascination of her beloved art, she
had her books and her music.

In the theatre she was affable and complaisant,
but not particularly cordial ; indeed, the
young men of the company complained that
she was particularly cold. Notwithstanding
her frigidity, they admired her — much as stars
and comets are admired — at a distance.

Certain it was, that as yet no one had
made the slightest impression on that virgin
heart ; as yet the steel had not been forged
to strike fire from that beautiful but invulnerable
bosom. The fuel was there, certainly —
combustible enough, and needing but the
Promethean spark to leap into life and burst
into a flame ; but as yet the hour and the man
had not come.

Now, were I a woman, I could devote a
chapter, or a series of chapters, to a diagnosis
of this innocent young creature's hopes, fears,

and aspirations, while as yet she moved '^ in
maiden meditation, fancy free,'^ but I have
a queer old-fashioned notion that a young
maid's heart is too sacred a thing to be laid
on a dissecting table and exposed to the
public view; besides which, and apart from
the fact that I am not versed in the mysteries
of the feminine mind, this is a story of incident,
and not a psychological study of character.
I can only therefore chronicle the fact
that, up to this moment, Clara Trevor was
heart-whole, that her soul was as transparently
pure as her body was beautiful, that she
was as cold as an icicle, and chaste as
sweet Artemis herself ; but for all that,
the invincible Prince was coming from
over the hills, and far away." Yes ! Eros,
the omnipotent, was coming to claim his
own.

The arrangements of the Circuit took the
company from town to town — sometimes fora
few nights, sometimes for a season. In

those days important London combinations
were not wont to travel, and wherever the
Great Northern Company went their visit was
the event of the year ; indeed, they were
always sure of a cordial welcome, both in the
theatre and in society.

At the time about to be described they had
returned to Rosemount for the winter season.
The —-th Lancers was a theatrical regiment.
The officers dined early, came to the theatre
nightly, and behaved, I am glad to say this,
like gentlemen, for I am constrained to admit
with regret that at that period the good
breeding of the gallant defenders of their
Queen and country was not the quality most
conspicuous during their visits to the boxes
of a country theatre, or for that matter to any
other place of public resort.

Fairfax was fond of hunting ; he was a
capital horseman, and a welcome guest at
every hunt breakfast, and at many a pleasant

dinner afterwards. Clara was not only an
accomplished horsewoman, but had become
one of the most attractive features of every
hunting field in the county.

Now, it so happened that one morning,
blessed with '^ a southerly wind and a cloudy
sky," the manager and his ward put in an
appearance together at the Marquis of H — ^s
meet.

Leaving Clara outside the Castle, attended
by the groom, Fairfax went into the 
to fetch her a cup of tea. As he
was returning, whom should he encounter but
the Marquis himself. He had been Lord
Chamberlain, and had seen Frank act all his
crack parts in town. The old gentleman
accosted him with a cheery ^' good-morning,"
and then inquired —

'where are you off to, Fairfax, with that
cup of tea? "

'' It's for my daughter, sir ! "

'' Nonsense ! can't allow it ; pray introduce

me to Miss Trevor, and let me take her in to
my wife and daughters."

The introduction was made, and then the
genial old gentleman said, '' Come, Miss

Trevor —

Though grey
Do something mingle with our younger brown, yet ha' we
A brain that nourishes our nerves.'

Just place your Httle hands on my
shoulders, and I'll hft you from your saddle
like a bird. Allow me ; " and down she sprang
with a joyous laugh.

That's right," he continued ; *^ now let's
leave this dissipated young dog to his weed
with the men yonder, while we have a cup of
tea with my lady and the girls."

In due course Clara was introduced to the
Marchioness and her daughters, Florence and
Mary (two graceful and unaffected young
ladies), who were as delighted with her as she
was with them.

Presently the girls rode out together, greatly
to the mortification of certain young gentlemen

who aspired to be their several
escorts.

All the officers of the — th were there in
full force. Two of these young fellows were
distinguished beyond all the rest by their
thoroughly good form, as well as by their
good looks, and they sat their horses as if
they had been born on their backs.

One of them had dark brown curling hair
flecked with gold, an oval face, and deep blue
eyes ; he was broad-chested, slender-joined,
and tiger-backed. The other was slighter,
fairer, with sunny hair and laughing hazel
eyes. Neither of them could have been
less than twenty-one or more than five-and-twenty.
When they saw the ladies the
young men took off their hats and bowed.
The girls, except Clara (who remained immovable),
blushed and bowed again.

The darker of the two men looked at her
for a moment ; their eyes met ; she flushed.

VOL. I. D

He bent to the saddle bow as he instinctively
lifted his hat and gave his horse the spur.
Florence looked rather astonished at this
pantomime, and inquired —

'' Do you know those men ? "

'' No, I do not," responded Clara.

H'm," replied the girl, rather dubiously ;
*' they are people of good family, though at
present they are only ensigns in the Lancers
quartered at Rosemount."

'' By-the-bye, they are great play-goers.
Talking at dinner the other day about you
and Mr. Fairfax, they said they were delighted
with your ' Beatrice ' and charmed
with his ' Benedict.' The fair boy, Mr.
Armitage, admires you especially."

** Oh ! indeed ! and the other — the one
with the dark hair?"

'' Oh ! his name is Herbert, but the men
never call him by that name."

indeed!"

'' No ; papa says they always call him "

and she hesitated a Httle — ^^ ' Handsome
Jack.'^'

*' Handsome Jack ! " echoed Clara.

'eyes; don't you think him handsome? ''
both the girls inquired.

*' No, I don't," said Clara, very decidedly.

The conversation terminated abruptly, for
the sly puss gave her horse the heel and sent
him caracoling round.

After this the girls were all a little gene.
There's nothing, however, like the sound of
horse and hound to 'drive dull care away."
Their youth, high spirits, the fine weather,
the sound of the huntsman's horn, the crack
of the whip, the baying of the hounds, and
the cry of " Tally-ho ! hark forward ! tantivy ! "
set their blood flowing like quicksilver ; so,
giving their horses their heads, off they
went with a burst, helter-skelter after the
hounds.

Nothing stopped these young Amazons.
The men were all good horsemen, but I think

considerations of courtesy induced them to
yield the lead to the ladies.

It was a pleasant, quick run for everybody,
even for the fox, for he was run to cover, and
they lost scent in less than three hours. Clara,
for one, was glad that poor Reynard had
escaped.

Returning from the hunt with her young
friends, she found that they had read " Romeo
and Juliet," and had got the Bard upon the
brain.

Some charades and amateur performances
had been given at the Castle, and among
other selections the ball-room and the balcony
scenes from '^ Romeo and Juliet" were presented.
Florence had played Juliet, Mary
the Nurse; 'handsome Jack," as he was
called, and his friend Armitage, had played
Romeo and Mercuric — and played them
divinely — so at least the girls said.

On the other side of the field the two young
men, having got the Marquis to introduce

them, had declared to Fairfax that they also
were " death " on Romeo and Mercuric.

'' We oft rub shoulders with Fate as she
hurries past," and thus the meet at H —
Castle affected the lives of all those more or
less connected with this veracious history.

As for Lady Florence and Lady Mary, in
the fulness of time, the one became a countess,
the other a marchioness ; and I am under
the impression they also became mothers of
a race of earls and marquises and other such
superior people.

It is more than likely, however, if Jack
Herbert or Harry Arm stage had had the pluck
to pop the question that morning, the future
peeresses would have chanced 'the life to
come " for the sake of becoming in the present
Lady Florence Herbert and Lady Mary Armytage,
in which case this story would have
remained untold.

Whatever amount of courage the lads possessed,
they evidently had not the inclination

to try the experiment just then, for they rode
back towards Rosemount with Fairfax, who,
on Clara's approach, introduced them both
to her.

The young fellows were most deferential
and Ingratiating, and endeavoured to render
themselves particularly agreeable to the
young lady, but she was very cold and reserved,
and kept close to Fairfax's side.
Perhaps he was not displeased at this, for
he wanted to keep his darling to himself as
long as he could.

When they reached the little house at the
theatre, the groom came to help Clara dismount,
but Herbert anticipated him, and was
by her side like a flash of lightning.

Before she knew how It was done, her
hands were on his shoulders, his arms were
around her waist, and a strange thrill went
coursing through her every vein.

As she alighted they looked once more full
in each other's eyes. He lifted his hat, she

bowed in return, then pulling up her habit she
rapidly entered the house.

Fairfax was, at that moment, occupied
with Armitage making an engagement to dine
at the mess the following week. Herbert
remounted ; the gentlemen shook hands and
parted with mutual expressions of good-will.

As they rode away Armitage said —
'' What do you think of her. Jack ? "
*' I think she rides to hounds capitally, is a
charming actress, and altogether about the
most beautiful girl I ever saw."
Ah ! well, that's good enough."
"Good enough for what?" said Herbert
curtly, and even sternly.
"Why, for Mrs. Herbert."
"Quite, if she saw it and I saw it from
that point of view, but I don't suppose she
does. Fairfax is wealthy — she is his heiress —
besides which she's bound to make her fortune
on the stage, while I — well ! I'm too

poor, and too proud to live upon my wife.
Don't you remember the story of the singing
woman who married a marquis — a miserable
creature. After paying his gambling debts
half a dozen times she divorced him. Plucking
a diamond necklace, worth a king's
ransom, from her neck, she threw it in the
fellow's face, as she said, ^ Take that ! For
that and the like of it you sold yourself to
slavery ; with it I buy my liberty. Begone !
Ldche ! '

'' My God ! imagine any woman ever having
the chance of saying that or anything Hke it to
Jack Herbert ! Enough. Say no more about
it, Hal," and they set spurs to their horses.

And Clara ?

She was unusually quiet at dinner, and
though she piled Fairfax's plate with dainties,
scarcely tasted food herself.

'what's the matter my darling?" he
enquired, as he came and placed his arms
tenderly around her.

Ah ! his gentle caresses did not send the
hot blood to her heart like yonder man's
simple touch.

She merely murmured languidly —
'' Nothing, papa ! only I'm rather tired, and
my head aches a little, that's all. If you
don't mind I'll lie down for an hour or two.
I shall be better by-and-bye," and so she left
him to his Times his claret, and his after-dinner
cigar.

Poor girl ! " The very pin of her heart
was cleft with the blind bow-boy's butt shaft."

When she looked into John Herbert's eyes,
quick and fleeting as was the glance, she saw
her fate lay mirrored there.

Her hour had come — the hour which comes
to every man and every maid sooner or
later.

ROMEO AND JULIET.

*' For never was a story of more woe
Than this of JuHet and her Romeo."

A FORTNIGHT after the meet at H — orders
came down from the Horse Guards for the
th Lancers to put themselves in marching
order and to be prepared to start at a week's
notice for Egypt, where the war in the Soudan
was then raging.

Then came a succession of farewell dinners
and dances. To give additional eclat to the
occasion, Herbert and Armitao^e induced
Fairfax to let them have the theatre for an

amateur performance of '' Romeo and Juliet"
by the men of the regiment.

Now, this affair nearly came to grief through
the unexpected and apparently inexplicable
absence from the rehearsal of the chaplain
of the regiment, the Honourable and Reverend
Philip Blake, of Castle Blake, County
Galway, commonly called '' Fighting Phil."

Dear old Phil was as fine a fellow as ever
stood in shoe-leather (and he stood six feet
without his shoes), but he ought to have been
a barrister, a soldier, an actor — anything buta
parson.

He was dying to distinguish himself as
Friar Lawrence.

Barring the brogue, he spoke the lines
admirably, and had a fair idea of the parts,
thanks to the capital coaching of Joe Boa-mergus,
Fairfax's " heavy man," who came to
look after the preliminary rehearsals.

Altogether a remarkable person was Joe,
with his bullet-head, his black hair cropped

to the poll, his keen, glittering eyes, his pale
face, his close-shaven blue-black beard, and
his mouth with the teeth of a badger and the
jaw of a bulldog. A heavy swell, too, was hein
his stylish great coat with sealskin collar
and cuffs, his white silk muffler tied carelessly
round his neck, his cloth boots tipped
with patent leather, his malacca cane, silver-topped,
his kid gloves, and his hat curled up
at the brim.

Fighting Phil " didn't come to the second
rehearsal, whereupon Joe kicked up a row
and dismissed the people.

That afternoon '' Phil" turned up at the
theatre house, and was shown into the manager's
den, where presently Frank Fairfax
joined him.

Frank went in '' like a lion," but after five
minutes' jaw came out " like a lamb."

The parson stayed to dinner, and assisted
in spoiling a leg of Welsh mutton, and also
assisted in polishing off a couple of bottles

of Fairfax's famous old port, before he returned
to quarters.

Next day Boanergus rehearsed the Friar
himself, so that difficulty was got over.

It was a crying grievance to Phil, however,
that pressure had been brought to bear to
induce him to throw up the part.

This was how it happened : —

The Dean (a pottering old idiot, who was
always poking his nose into other people's
business) got wind, through some of the boys
who were dining at the Deanery, of Phil's
intention, so this asinine pillar of the Church
thought it incumbent on him to warn Blake of
the consequences of such a breach of decorum
consequences which he alleged would be
serious, perhaps fatal to his professional advancement.


'' Sure, boys," said Phil, '' I meant to have
put myself behind a magnificent ' bird.' Then,
with a bald wig and ' Mr. Anon ' in the playbill,
who the devil would have recognized Phil
Blake?"

Clara knew that so long as her secret washer
own she was safe ; hence to the dove's
innocence she added a little of the serpent's
wisdom, and when not engaged in the business
of the scene she was distantly courteous
to Herbert, and no more.

Once on the stage, her eyes, her looks, her
tremulous and pathetic utterance of the Vero-mean
maiden's ecstatic but unhappy love
were all but too eloquent tell-tales.

Herbert could not understand how it was
possible she could grow hot and cold in the
same breath ; how she could fix her eyes
upon him at their first meeting in the ballroom,
as if she were spellbound ; how she
could look down upon him from the balcony
as if she were about to leap into his arms or
draw him up to hers ; how she could cling to
him with convulsive ardour at their last fatal
parting, and yet, a moment after, could be
frigid as an iceberg. Although he couldn't
understand these strange phenomena, Fairfax

Icnew the symptoms only too well. Seeing
the estrangement increase between the young
people, he was actually drawn towards Herbert,
who was so modest, so unpretentious,
so manly, that at last Frank's heart went out
to him. '' If they love each other," he growled
to himself, '' why, they do, and there's an end
of it ; but it's a pity such a fine fellow should
go to cut a throat or have his own cut for
three half-crowns a day when he could do so
much better at home."

At length came the eventful night. All
the men turned up in a dreadful state of
nervousness, and had it not been for Blake I
don't know what would have become of them.
He buzzed about from dressing-place to ,
laughing and joking here, there, and
everywhere. His laughter was contagious,
and the boys began to laugh a little themselves.
Then he had some tea brought in.
and gradually they began to forget, for a

moment at least, the very existence of
nerves.

'' Sure, boys," said he, '' I'm here to tache
you how to behave yourselves to the girls,
and especially to look after that thief of a
Romeo, who goes about jumping over walls,
climbing balconies, and killing people on the
slightest provocation.

By my honor, that friar was a sensible

old man, and knew what he was about when

he said —

* For by your laves you shall not stay alone
Till holy Church incorporate two in one.'

^' Besides, who knows but you might be
after matting wit an accident — tumbling
down one of the holes in that murthering
stage ; and then where would you be without
the parson ?

'' Wherever the regiment is there am I, so
long as a rag of the flag hangs together."

Of course, it goes without saying that there
was an enormous house. Friends are always

willing to come to see fellows make fools of
themselves ; in fact, it is one of those
privileges of which friendship steadfastly
avails itself. But the men of the — th were
not such sticks as amateurs usually are ; most
of them certainly looked guys in their
mediaeval costumes, while, as for their riding
rods of legs ! — ■ It is a singular thing that
cavalry officers never have legs ; I suppose it
is a qualification for that branch of the
service. It is certain, however, there was
only one pair of legs in the regiment, and
those were Romeo's. Well, as soon as he
had made his first plunge, and surmounted his
nervousness, he spoke like a Christian, moved
like a man and a gentleman ; nay, had some
idea of the rhythmical intonation of the verse.
He looked a picture ; and his voice — ah ! he
always had a voice that went straight to
every heart. Fairfax, who was hard to please,
sat in his box holding a post-mortem examination
on everything and everybody.
VOL. I. E

At the end of the Balcony Scene he exclaimed
—

'' By Jove ! the boy will make an actor."

And Clara ! Well, it was conceded on all
hands that her Juliet was not a transformation
— it was a transfiguration ; all hearts
went out to her, and she struck the chords of
every emotion, whether she melted into
pathos, rose to passion, or sank into despair.

Herbert could never surely have escaped
the universal contagion, had not his poverty
and his pride rendered him invulnerable. '' In
the very torrent and tempest " of his passion
even while they were both quivering in the
ecstasy of simulated love — each felt an
insuperable barrier of pride arise like a pillar
of ice between them.

When the curtain fell and they came forth
to receive the congratulations of their friends,
amidst the flowers at their feet lay a golden

laurel wreath, which Romeo lifted from the
stage and placed upon Juliet's head.

Could he or she, amidst that whirlwind of
excitement, have caught a glimpse of the
pale, anguished face of poor little Lady
Florence, who had prepared the wreath for
him, and now saw " her Romeo '' place it on
the head of her rival, Juliet, it would surely
have a little dashed their triumph.

As they left the stage, Herbert said —

'' Good-bye, Miss Trevor ; thanks, a thousand
and a thousand times, for your endurance
of my crude efforts. With such a Juliet to
inspire me I ought to have done better ;
believe, however, I have done my best. Now,
once more thanks, and farewell."

He pressed her hand, and was gone ere she
could speak.

For a moment she was silent, then, waking
as if from a dream, she turned wearily towards

Library

UNIVERSITY OF HTTWOff

her dressing-room, murmuring to herself the
lines she had heard him speak the moment
immediately preceding her first entrance.
The words are not Shakespere's, but Garrick's,
yet, despite the cant of the purists,
they are quite good enough to be the poet's
own : 'tis thus they run : —

Twas through my eyes the shaft pierced my heart,
Chance gave the wound which time can never heal.
No star befriends me.

*' To each sad night succeeds a dismal morrow,
And still 'tis hopeless love and endless sorrow."

Poor Clara ! that was the burden of her
song for many a weary day and many a
sleepless night to come.

"THE GIRLS THEY LEFT BEHIND THEM."

^' Good-bye, sweetheart, good-bye."

When Phil Blake and his young friends got
to town he joined his family in Kennington
Park Terrace, while Armitage went to his
father's house at South Kensington, and
Herbert put up at the Humours.

The day after their arrival Hal asked his
comrades to dinner at Hollywood Lodge.

The boy's mother was dead ; his father, an
Alderman of the City of London, a wealthy
merchant, and an M.P. to boot, was a blatant,

purse-proud, well-meaning old Philistine, with
not one aspiration in common with his
son.

Both Phil and Herbert tried to make themselves
agreeable, but despite the sumptuous
repast the attempt was a failure. They made
no secret of their poverty, and the Alderman
boasted continually of his wealth. He opened
fire by suggesting that they should make the
most of the spread and the wine.

'' Tuck in, my lads," said he ; '' you don't
get a feed like this every day."

Phil flushed up to his eyes, and gasped,
but ultimately gulped down his indignation
with a glass of Madeira. Herbert was rather
amused, but poor Hal with difficulty restrained
his annoyance and mortification.

*' I essay you wouldn't think it," said the
Alderman, '' but that salmon cost me five
shillings a pound ! "

'' In that case, I'll trouble you for another
half-pound," said Phil, gravely.

'' Is that the way you eat salmon in
Ireland?" enquired the Alderman.

*' No, sir ; we eat herrings there, and give
the salmon to the peasants and the pigs ! "

'' Sir-er ! " exclaimed the Alderman.

'' Beg pardon. When I spoke of pigs I
didn't mean to be personal' said Blake.

Herbert nearly barked Phil's shins under
the table, and he '' dried up " for a time.
Meanwhile poor Hal thought —

''If they've got to this with the fish what
will it be by-and-bye? "

When they reached the dessert the Alderman
was more blatant that ever, but Phil
kept pace with his host, and never flinched
from his bottle until they were both well
under weigh.

Meanwhile the two young men sat on
thorns, and while their elders were pegging
away at the port they stuck to the claret.

That's Chateau Margaux, my boys'*
said the Alderman. ''' A guinea and a half a

bottle. You're not likely to get much of
that In Egypt. Have another glass of port,
parson? It's better than the black strap
you get at your mess, I'll be bound. What
do you think of It? "

'* H'm ! Pretty good for Kensington,"
said Blake, " but not what we are accustomed
to in Gal way."

*' Galway be d — d ! Poor poverty-stricken,
priest-ridden country, where the people live
on ' potatoes and point,' and not much of
that. That port, sir, cost me thirty-six
pounds a dozen — that's sixty shillings a
bottle. Sixty shillings, sir ; think of that ! "

"Ah!" said Blake reflectively, "let me
see. Twelve glasses to the bottle. Pass the
decanter. Alderman, and I'll take another
crown's worth."

Parson," said the Alderman, " it strikes
me very forcibly you wouldn't put it down so
easily if you had to pay for it."

It strikes me very forcibly," replied Phil''

I should put it down much easier, for I
shouldn't have an Alderman of the City of
London to take the trouble to keep count of
the number of glasses I take."

Counting, sir," roared the Alderman.
'' Counting is my business. I've made that
boy's fortune by counting. I'll bet you a
thousand pounds to a shilling that I count
more thousands of pounds than you can count
sovereigns ! "

I can't undertake to do that," responded
the Parson with grim pleasantry, 'because
I've only got one in the world ; but I bet you
a sovereign to a tenpenny nail that I put
down a sovereign for every idea you've got In
your head, Mr. Armitage," and he laid the
sovereign down on the table.

'' Tell 'ee what it is, young jackanapes,"
growled the Alderman to Hal, ''if you've
brought these fellows here only to insult your
father, the sooner they are out of this the
better."

So saying he staggered over to the bell,
and when the butler came he said —

'' ' Hawkins, you can show these gents the
other side of the door ; and that puppy of
mine can go with 'em if he likes."

Out went the guests without further ceremony.
When they got outside Herbert
said —

^' Phil ! how could you? Only see what
you have let poor Hal in for."

'^ By my honour I'm sorry that I forgot myself,
for your sake, dear boy, for whatever
you're father is you're a gentleman ; but you
see, I'm a Blake of Galway, and I'm not
accustomed to take a blow without giving a
thrust.

'' Come and dine with me, boys, before we
leave town. I can't give you port at sixty
bob a bottle, but I'll give you a leg of Welsh
mutton, a glass of claret, a jug of punch, and
a head mille fealtha^ and I'll introduce you
to the best wife and daughter in the worlds

Now mind, the day after tomorrow, six
o'clock sharp, 59, Kennington Park Terrace.
That's an appointment."

So the friends shook hands and parted,
leaving poor Hal to confront the Alderman's
wrath. Fortunately, when the boy got back,
the stern parent had returned to his potations
with such a will that he was quite oblivious
and had to be helped to bed, and was conscious
the next morning of nothing worse
than a headache, and an indistinct recollection
of having had a slight difference of
opinion with Hal's friends.

Next day Herbert went down to Cambridge,
where he found his father broken down by
chronic bronchitis. The flat, marshy neighbourhood
of the dear old place, which was
associated with the lad's happiest days, had
aggravated the malady, and winter after
winter the poor gentleman got worse.

Mrs. Herbert, a charming old lady, took

the first opportunity, when they were alone, to
tell Jack that she thought his father was
getting near the end of his journey.

The doctor who came to dine with them
had known Herbert from boyhood, and as
they walked to the '' Bull " together, after
dinner, said to him —

'jack, I'm afraid it's a bad look out for
your mother. We are going to have an unusually
severe winter, and if your father
doesn't get away to Cannes, or Nice, or
somewhere in the Riviera, he's a doomed
man."

Happily the poor gentleman himself had
no idea that the end was so near. So when
they parted he was elate, and confident, and
full of plans for the future. Not so Herbert
and his mother.

'john," said she, " for your poor mother's
sake, be careful of your precious life. I fear
soon you will be all I shall have left in the
world."

Mother," he replied, '' Heaven will protect
me for your sake. You'll let me know if
the worst should happen ? '*

"' Be sure of that. God bless you, my
boy," and so they parted.

On his return to the Humours, Herbert
found a note from Phil Blake, reminding
him of their appointment ; and before six
o'clock Harry Armitage called and bowled
him down to Kennington in the Alderman's
brougham.

Phil, who was usually rather careless in
his costume, was on this occasion '' got up
regardless," more, it must be said, in honour
of his womenkind than his young comrades.
He came forward with a genial welcome, and
after a minute's chat he said —

'' Now, boys, let me introduce you to my
wife and daughter — here they are," and the
two ladies entered the room.

Gabrielle, my dear — Caroline, my love'*

said he, 'Met me Introduce to you my dearest
friends, John Herbert and Harry Armitage."

Mrs. Blake and her daughter came forward,
and without fuss or the pretence of
ceremony, made the young fellows welcome,
and in five minutes they were at home.

The two ladies appeared to be younger and
elder sister — no more.

The younger was evidently about eighteen ;
the elder did not look a day more than thirty,
thought it is obvious she must have been a
little older to be the mother of such a
daughter.

They had just returned from Paris, where
they had lived for the past two years. Both
were dressed exactly alike, in simple gowns of
purple cashmere, high to the throat, falling
closely to the figure, merely relieved by a
plain white collar and cuffs, and a single band
of ribbon, with a dainty little gold buckle at
the waist, and a small enamelled brooch at
the throat. Each had one rich crimson rose

placed amidst the abundant tresses, which
coiled closely to the head, and were fastened
in a Grecian knot behind.

Although their features were cast in the
same mould, they were as different as day and
night in complexion. Madame's hair was of
a rich reddish bronze ; Caroline's was like her
father's, black as night, or rather of the
transparent blue black which takes so many
shades in the sunlight.

The mother's head and face were pure
Greek — low brow, straight eyebrows, grey
eyes, oval face, short lips, beautiful teeth,
with the bloom of the peach upon her cheeks,
and the slightest suspicion of its down upon
her lip.

Caroline inherited all the beauty of her
mother, commingled with the rich Iberian
blood of the Lakes. Wonderful eyes of Irish
blue, with great long curled '' lashes," a skin
transparent as alabaster, beneath which the
colour came and went as the golden sunshine

flickers through the clouds on a September
morning.

Mrs. Blake was a woman of remarkable
accomplishments, an admirable musician,
both vocal and instrumental, a wonderful
linguist, an expert gentlewoman, and a
charming artist in water-colours.

To all her mother's gifts Caroline added
strong dramatic instincts, a taste fostered by
her Parisian friends, who, after the fashion of
their country, went to the play almost nightly,
taking the girl and her mother with them.
Two or three nights every week they went
to the Francis, and thus became familiarized
not only with the best French dramatic literature
and the admirable acting of the accomplished
comedians of the ^' House of Moliere,"
but more especially with the performances of
the distinguished actress whose star was then
at its zenith.

It was not surprising, therefore, that the

girl devoured every detail of the performance
of '' Romeo and Juliet," which was related at
length by Armitage for the delectation of her
mother and herself, listening with especial
interest to Hal's description of '^ the beautiful
Miss Trevor."

Once she asked Herbert — '^ Do you think
her beautiful, Mr. Herbert ? "

Herbert replied — '^ Beauty is a matter of
taste. Miss Blake. Miss Trevor is certainly
very beautiful, but I think I have seen someone
who more thoroughly realizes my idea of
beauty."

At this moment, with the ready tact of
a mother, and an Irishwoman, Mrs. Blake
changed the subject ; she proposed some
music, and they adjourned to the piano. Hal
thought he had never heard such music in his
life. Madame's voice, which was a ripe mezzo-soprano,
paled before her daughter's, which

VOL. I. F

had a wonderful range, being especially rich
in the lower notes.

Caroline sang to Madame's accompaniment,
Madame sang to hers, then they sang
and played together. They sang Moore's
melodies, they sang chansonettes and arias,
and then, to the astonishment of the young
men, Caroline produced her violin, on which
she played a fantasia on '' The Last Rose of
Summer" with a fervour and feeling which
enchanted them.

Phil cut in and said — '' Now, boys, I'll let
you have an Irish song that'll go with the
punch. Gabrielle, my darling, give us the
Cruiskeen Lawn ' ; " and he sang it with
a life and go that was irresistible. Hal
contributed his mite with the last music
hall absurdity, which set everybody off
laughing.

Then Phil called on Herbert, who tried to
excuse himself. '' I only know one ballad,"
he said, " and as unfortunately I cannot play

my own accompaniment, 'tis useless for me
to try it."

'' Ah, belong — you good men are so modest ;
sure Sims Reeves isn't in it with you. And
haven't I accompanied you in it a thousand
times ? So look out, bright chanticleer — here
goes!" And he struck up 'good-bye, sweetheart,
good-bye," while Herbert, in a rich
baritone, sang the simple and touching
melody.

The pleasantness evening must come to an
end, so at last the young fellows bade their
friends good-night, having arranged to meet
at the Lyceum the following evening.

When they were seated in the brougham
Hal said —

'' Isn't she an angel. Jack ? "

She is charming."

'' Charming ! She's the most beautiful
creature on the face of God's earth ; and if
ever I live to come back — "

'well, if ever you do?"

'' You'll see."

That's right, old man. Now give us a

light."

Then they subsided into silence until Hal
dropped Jack at "The Humours."

The following evening the lads met Phil
and the ladies at the Lyceum. The play was
'' Much Ado About Nothing," a sumptuous
spectacle which they followed with eager interest.


Phil sat in the centre, with Mrs. Blake on
his left hand and Caroline on his right. Hal
was next to Caroline, and did his utmost to
make himself agreeable, but evidently without
much success, for the young lady replied only
in monosyllables, and appeared very distraite.
Herbert was next to Mrs. Blake, who rattled
away at every interval with all the charm and
vivacity of her race ; but, strange to say,
Herbert was not particularly responsive, so

Phil, Mrs. Blake, and Hal had the burden of
the talk to themselves.

When the performance was over, Phil and
the ladies returned to Kennington, and Herbert
and Hal strolled over to E.'s to have
some supper, and there, I fear, they had more
wine than was good for them.

Hal was effusive and confidential. He had
been to see Phil that morning, and had obtained
permission (provided he could obtain
his father's consent) to pay his addresses to
Miss Blake on his return from Egypt, but it
was understood that the matter was to remain
in abeyance until then.

Herbert received this communication almost
in silence. He merely said —

'' I hope you will be happy, Hal. If she
loves you, you are sure to be happy."

""//'she loves me? She's bound to love
me. Jack. There's no other fellow in the
way — if there were, by — ! I'd shoot him.
And if the governor isn't a swell, he'll cut up

for half a million ; and I'm not such a bad
sort, you know."

'' Say no more, old fellow, say no more ;
and let us hope it'll all turn out as you
wish."

'' That's right. Jack ; you're the best fellow
in the world, and I hope you'll be happy with
Clara Trevor one of these fine days."

*' I don't think that is likely," coldly replied
Herbert.

At this moment a choir of boys struck up
an old madrigal ; it was one that Herbert's
mother had sung to him as a child. Apart
from this it was a strain of heavenly music,
and melted their hearts into tenderness and
love. They hugged each other — for they
were only lads ; then they cried and swore
eternal friendship.

Next morning a vast concourse of people
assembled on Waterloo Bridge, and crowded
the road down to the station gates to see the

troops march past on their way to Portsmouth.


The sun was high in heaven, banners
waving, band playing, and the crowd shouting.


When Herbert and Armitage, at the head
of their detachment, reached the Surrey side
of the bridge a well-known voice rang out
above the rest —

'^ More power to ye, boys ; till Portsmouth,
good-bye ! "

Looking to the right they saw Phil, Mrs.
Blake, and Caroline standing in the balcony
of one of the first houses on the terrace. They
saluted, and the ladies waved their handkerchiefs.
A mist of tears clouded bright eyes
and welled forth from brave hearts, while
high above the din the noon-tide hour
rang out from St. Paul's, and from every
church tower the silvery chimes made joyous
answer.

The band struck up '* The girl I left behind

me ; " and amidst the waving of hats and
handkerchiefs, the roar of the multitude, the
braying of the band, and the clangour of the
bells, Herbert and Armytage passed forth to
their last campaign.

ROBERT Pearson's NARRATIVE.
CHAPTER I.

ORESTES AND Places (A RETROSPECT).

Oh ! Places, what is life without a friend ? "

I, Robert Pearson, who tell this story,
will say as little about myself or my antecedents
as possible, save to indicate my connection
with the incidents hereafter related.

Of course everybody knows the Penarvons,
of Penarvon Grange, Cornwall.

I was called Robert, after my grandfather.

who I have heard was a cranky, crusty, cruel
old man.

His eldest son, Roland, my father, was a
captain in the East India Company's service
and when he was home on leave, after a long
spell in the East, he ran away with the
daughter of one of my grandfather's tenants,
and married her.

Grandfather would have forgiven father for
running away with my mother, but for making
her his wife he was never forgiven.

The property was not entailed, so the
whole estate, real and personal, was bequeathed
to father's younger brother, Stephen,,
who, after grandfather's death, married the
cook, by whom he had a numerous family of
clodhoppers, and that is all I know, or ever
cared to learn, about them or theirs.

I was born in India, and my poor mother
died the moment I saw the light. My father,
stricken with a mortal malady, sold out, and
returned to England.

In the course of time he put me to school
at Clapham, where he took up his quarters,
that he might see me as often as possible.

For the first two years he came for me
regularly every Wednesday afternoon, and we
used to take long rambles together over the
beautiful heaths and moorlands in the neighbourhood,
then uninvited by jerry builders
and railways.

Every Sunday, after midday, I was father's
own boy until Monday morning.

Poor father ! he was ill — very ill.

At last he was taken from me, and at
twelve years of age I was left alone in the
world. I was always a shy, awkward, taciturn
lad, but I became more so than ever after
father's death, and the bigger fellows were
disposed to 'put" on the "nigger," as they
called me, because of my dark complexion and
my being born in India.

Jim Bulstrode, a great hulking hobbledehoy,
was the cock of the school, and he used

to order us about like galley-slaves. Woe
betide anyone who dared dispute his commands
; it was a word and a blow, only, unfortunately
for us little ones, the blow came
first and the word after. There was only one
lad in the school to whom Bulstrode gave a
wide berth, a lad of about fifteen, who had
only just joined us. He was very bright,
very handsome, and very clever, but very
proud and distant with us all. I think I can
see him now, with his beautiful oval face, his
open but imperious brow, crowned with
clusters of dark brown curls flecked with
gold, his dark eyebrows and long curled
lashes veiling his great, dreamy, deep blue
eyes ; his straight, delicately-chiselled nose,
his dimpled chin, and his firm-set mouth. A
month after his arrival he stood at the head
of the first class in every department.

M. Anatole de la Force, our old French
dancing master, who pronounced me an
imbecile, declared that the new-comer danced

like young Sylvain ; while Sergeant Fribble,
our old sword master, who had served in the
Crimea, swore that his calisthenics were tiptop,
that his broad-sword play was worthy of
a Life Guardsman ; and that in the grand
salute and lightness of touch with the foils
he was equal to Angelo or Charles Kean, the
play actor, whom Fribble had once seen at
the Princess's.

All this high saluting stuff would have
turned an ordinary lad's head, but it fell
like water off a duck's back from the young
stranger.

How or where he learnt his lessons we
never knew.

As a rule, during play time, he retired to
some secluded corner and occupied himself
with a pocket edition of Shakespere, which
was his inseparable companion morning, noon,
and night.

He seldom played with us, but when he did
we found to our cost that he was the best

cricketer, jumper, swimmer, and runner
amongst us.

Besides these accomplishments he was
master of another, of which we knew nothing
till a certain memorable occasion, when he
enlightened Bulstrode and the rest of us —
more particularly Bulstrode.

The stranger's name was John Herbert, but
no one ever took the liberty to accost him by
his Christian name out of school. All the
boys, except Bulstrode, called him '' The
Prince ; " he called him '' The Cub " — not to
his face though.

One night, after we had gone to bed, our
tyrant routed me up, and ordered me to go
and steal some King William pears, which
grew in the garden beneath our window.

I fear I was not so loth to commit this
petty larceny as I ought to have been. So
when they lowered me down by a sheet I went
to work with a will, clambered up the tree,
had a jolly tuck in on my own account before

I descended with as many pears as I could
carry in a pillow case.

When I began the job the moon shone as
bright as noontide ; before I had finished it
was dark as pitch.

I alighted on terra fir ma safely enough,
but I couldn't find the window, and went
blundering about in the dark, until I fell head
foremost into a cucumber frame, smashing
the glass in every direction, breaking my
nose, cutting my hands, and making a most
diabolical row, which startled the whole
house.

Cries of 'murder!" 'thieves!" &c., arose
in every direction, and before I could extricate
myself from the cucumbers, the Doctor's
great beastly bull terrier, Pongo, had pinned
me by my breeches, and when Joe, the gardener,
pulled him off, the brute brought
away something more than the seat of my
trousers.

When I regained my feet I was confronted

by the Doctor, with a blunderbuss as
big as himself, the ushers with their rattan,
the servants with lights.

A nice thing I had dropped in for! These
pears were the Doctor's especial weakness.

It was rumoured that when they appeared
at dessert, neither Mrs. Thorpe nor the
Misses Thorpe, not even Aurelian, his especial
favourite, ever presumed to look at them.
When, therefore, he found that I had dared to
lay felonious hands upon his treasures, his
rage knew no bounds. The old brute offered
to let me off if I would peach on my pals.
Of course, an infamy like that was not to bethought
of, so I was tried and convicted
without benefit of jury, and there and
then horsed upon Joseph's back twice up
and down the dormitory, for the delectation
of my brother culprits. Horsed did I say ?
I was almost flayed alive !

Next day we all had '^ tasks " (I have hated
the name of Virgil ever since), and there was

plenty of '' clapper clawing" knocking about
during those tasks, I promise you.

I soon learned the difference between success
and failure. Had I succeeded in bringing
back the pears in triumph I should have
been a hero ; having failed, I was a duffer.
No word was bad enough for me.

'the Prince" didn't 'chum" in the
same dormitory with us, and he tried to pump
me as to what had happened, but I wouldn't
split, so he became more cold even than
usual.

The next Wednesday, during our half-holiday,
a council of wear was held in the
playground, and as a penance for my past
offence Bulstrode ordered me to attempt the
pear-tree again that very night. On my venturing
to demur he threatened to thrash me
within an inch of my life, and the beast was
as good as his word, for he gave me a clout
on the head which sent me to the other side

VOL. I. G

of the yard. I was staggered for a moment,
but recovering myself I rushed at him and did
my little utmost to give as good as I took. I
might as well have stood up against Jack
Heenan or Ben Count. The fellow hit me
wherever he liked. I was knocked about like
a shuttlecock, and bruised and beaten into a
jelly bag ; in fact, I was nearly done for, when
help came from an unexpected quarter.

'' The Prince," who was reading his everlasting
Shakespere and munching an orange
at the other end of the playground, lounged
leisurely up to the spot, and said quietly, but
imperiously —

'' Take your hands from the boy. Do you
hear?"

Bulstrode opened his "eyes in amazement.

*' Were you speaking to me, you impudent
cub? " he inquired.

'eyes, I was speaking to you," responded
The Prince ; " *' and what is more, Mr. Jowls,
if you give me any of your lip I'll give you

the soundest beating you ever had in your
life."

With a howl of rage Bulstrode " went " for
The Prince," who, dexterously avoiding the
blow, gave Master Jim a crack in the eye with
the orange. Then, with the utmost composure,
pocketing his Shakespere, he took off
his jacket and turned up his shirt-sleeves.
These precautions completed, he said with
the utmost sang froid —

'' Now, Master Jowls, I am going to
astonish you," and he did astonish him and
everybody else.

Boxing was the shining light this modest
young gentleman had kept hidden under a
bushel. His '* science " was perfect, and I
quite forgot my own licking in my admiration
of the charmingly scientific manner in which
he gave Bulstrode his '' gruel."

After about ten minutes of it he threw up
the sponge ignominiously, and left '* The
Prince " cock of the walk. Then, while the

discomfited bully made the best of his way
with a beautiful pair of black eyes to the
pump, the boys carried the victor in triumph
round the playground.

What marvel after this that Jack Herbert
and I were friends and brothers !

Although barely three years older than
myself, I looked up to him as my protector,
and somehow he seemed to take the place of
the father I had lost.

In his moments of confidence he informed
me that he, like myself, was intended for the
army, and that his father was a college tutor
at Cambridge, poor as Job, and proud as
Lucifer, and that poverty and pride ran in the
blood of the Herbert.

For my part I hadn't much to boast of in
the way of wealth ; my small Inheritance had,
however, been judiciously invested by Mr.
Stanton, our solicitor, to whom my father's
affairs were confided, and who consented to
act as trustee and executor.

Like myself, Jack had little taste for the
military profession. Just before he came to
Clapham he had been taken to see Phelps
at Drury Lane ; his idee fixe was to bean
actor, a tragedian, but since his father
would have none of it, and as he believed
thoroughly in the Fifth Commandment, he
made up his mind to yield obedience to the
paternal wishes.

As soon as he took me under his protecting
wing time passed pleasantly enough for me,
and, indeed, for the other lads, since thenceforth
the bold Bulstrode 'Met us severely
alone."

My only bad times were the holidays, when
every boy but me went home to his friends,
and I was left alone, except, indeed, one
never-to-be-forgotten Christmas, when Jack
took me down to Cambridge with him. It
was the bitterest winter known for years, but
it was summer to me, rosy, golden summer.

The following Christmas was our last at

Clapham. We were both booked for Sandhurst,
where he had to fight my battles as
well as his own, which kept him pretty well
occupied out of school hours.

After the usual course of " cram " we
passed our " exam." in triumph ; then,
through the influence of one of his father's
pupils, on the one hand, and Mr. Stanton on
other, we were drafted, the one into the — th
Lancers, the other into the Scots Greys.

Before we left Sandhurst Jack's dramatic
proclivities asserted themselves. We had a
play, or rather a part of a play — the third act
of '' Julius Caesar," in which '' The Prince "
distinguished himself highly as Marc Antony,
and I failed miserably in the 'Mean and
hungry " Cassius.

At last came the time for us to part.

Next to father's death this was the greatest
grief of my young life.

When we got to town Jack Event one way
and I another. It was a sad hour for both.

Our separation extended over a considerable
period, during which we corresponded
regularly. In all that time we had
both been on active service in different parts
of the globe.

Five years had elapsed since we parted at
Sandhurst, and I was quartered at Sheffield
when I received a telegram from Jack asking
me if I would like to exchange into his
regiment.

As if it were necessary to ask such a
question ! Of course, I jumped at the idea,
and in less than a week afterwards the
transfer was effected, and I was on my way to
Portsmouth.

Before proceeding to the next chapter I
may here remark that the principal events I
am about to relate occurred mostly under my
own eyes ; and the connecting links are
based upon such authentic information as to
induce me to incorporate them bodily with
this narrative.

EN ROUTE TO THE EAST.

What envious streaks
Do lace the severing clouds in yonder East."

Upon arriving at Portsmouth I was delighted
to find myself once more with the friend of
my boyhood — I may say my only friend.
Jack was as pleased to see me as I was to
see him. He Introduced me to his comrades
as his especial chum, and I made myself at
home directly — more particularly with his
most intimate friends, Phil Blake and
Harry Armytage.

Some two or three days elapsed In getting

our stores and horses embarked. The very
day after my arrival who should 'turn up"
at mess but Armitage's father.

The boy was an only child, and the old
man softened at the thought of losing him fora
time, perhaps for all time, so he came down
and declared on to the Colonel, Herbert, and
Phil Blake. At first Phil was cold and even
arctic ; presently, however, he relented, and
then he and the old gentleman became inseparable.


A common tie united them.

Armitage was parting with his boy — Phil
was leaving his loved ones behind.

The day before we sailed Mr. Armitage
gave a dinner — a princely banquet — not to us
five alone, but to all the regiment, from the
men upwards. Even the band after they had
played through our dinner had a sumptuous
spread to themselves, and the band-master,
Van Vort, an eccentric little foreigner (I never
knew whether he was a Hollander, a Bavarian,

or a Belgian, but he was a gentleman, I'm
sure), was asked in to wine with us. By-and-bye
he brought in a strange-looking
musical instrument — a either, I think, he
called it — on which he played all kinds of
strange tunes and weird fantasias.

Being, unfortunately, not a musician, I know
not how to describe these things. I only
know that the little man was a long time
torturing and tuning his instrument, that he
commenced with a dreamy Hungarian waltz
which changed to '' Juanita."

Presently he became as one inspired, his
face and form betraying the strong emotion
which thrilled his blood and brain, while he
poured forth his soul through his finger-tips
into the instrument, which throbbed, responsive
to his touch, as if it were a human creature
endowed with a seraphic voice which rose
in a crescendo of heavenly music. The
jubilate glided gradually into a pathetic
minor, a soft liquid melody, compounded of

native land, of home, and ingle neck ; of the
soft soughing of the west wind ; of rain-drops
pattering softly on rustling leaves ; of great
rivers gently gliding to the sea ; of plighted
truths, of kisses, of blessings and farewells ; of
sighs, and sobs, and tears — '' tears wrung from
the depths of a divine despair " — when, lo ! at
the very moment when this " linked sweetness
long drawn out" faded into "a sound so
fine that nothing lived 'twixt it and silence,"
it swelled and swelled till it burst forth and
filled the air like the last song of some poor
dying bird rising to the empyrean and pouring
out its heart, in its last agony before the
gates of God !

No roaring of the loud-mouthed multitude
could ever have rendered such eloquent
homage to the genius of the musician as our
tears and our silence, amidst which he rose
and glided forth pale and speechless as a
ghost.

For a while we remained spellbound and

entranced, hearing nothing but the beating of
our hearts.

We were at length called back to life by
the passionate grief of old Armitage, who lay
forward upon the table, his head on his arms,
sobbing as if his heart were fit to break, while
he gasped — '' Oh ! my boy ! my boy ! you
will never come back to your old father — no !
never, never more ! "

Phil Blake and the boys tried to console
him ; but it was not until that young scapegrace
Hal struck up his stupid nonsense of
'mind you don't wake the baby" that the
old boy began to relax.

Then the Colonel gave us '' The Gallant
Hussar;" Phil and Jack gave their usual
contributions ; the Alderman tried 'the jolly
old sun," and broke down in the middle of it.
Then he undertook to explain " why a lawyer
was Hke a saddle of mutton ; " though I confess
the resemblance was about as clear tome

after the explanation as it was before.
Then we all sang ^' Rule, Britannia" and
God save the Queen' and so '' shut up in
measureless content."

Next day when we embarked the Alderman
came aboard to say '^ good-bye."

The leave-taking between him and the two
boys was most touching. As I approached I
heard Hal say —

'' If anything happens to me, dad, you'll do
something for Jack, won't you ? "

The old fellow growled In reply — '' Don't
talk d — d nonsense, nothing is going to
happen to you. You'll come back a general,
or a captain at least, and Jack will be a major-general.
I won't forget him — make your
mind easy about that." Then seeing me, he
said, '' Good-bye, Penarvon — you're the
mother of the family — mind you look after
these jackanapes, or never look me in the
face again."

As we shook hands the last bell rang, and
the Alderman went ashore. He remained on
the pier to the last, a conspicuous figure
amongst the crowd, waving his handkerchief
to us. We gave him a parting cheer as the
tug took us in tow; then the poor old man
broke down and turned away. Hal broke down,
too, and Phil and Herbert led him below.

I suppose you may get used to the climate
of Egypt as it is said the eels get accustomed
to skinning in time, but we had not time to
get acclimatized, and the heat nearly settled
us before we came to close quarters with the
Arabs, who, to do them justice, fought like
devils.

The story of the campaign has been told —
better than I can ever hope to tell it.

We were foremost in the midnight march
on Assassin — foremost in the thick of the fray
at Tel-el-Kebir, where poor Hal Armitage fell
wounded from his horse in the first charge
upon the Arab spears. In riding to his rescue

Herbert nearly came by his own death, and I
was knocked over by a bullet in my ankle. We
were all three left for dead upon the field ;
and, indeed, had it not been for Phil Blake,
who, with the colonel's consent, organized a
detachment at nightfall to seek us out, we
must have died before the morrow. When
they brought us within the lines Herbert was
cold and senseless ; it seemed as if every
drop of blood had passed out of his body, but
he was still alive, and that was all.

As for Hal, it was all over ; he had been dead
for hours.

His father's grief had been prophetic.

Vain now were all his riches.

All the wealth of the world could not buy
back his son.

Alas ! the poor old man !

Anywhere — anywhere out of the world ! "

Herbert was sent to hospital at Cairo.
The doctors said he had had a miraculous
escape — that if the bullets had been fired
with the express purpose of avoiding serious
injury they could not have been aimed
better.

Thanks to his superb constitution he soon
rallied, and was sent home with a captain's
commission to complete his cure.

Alas ! he returned barely in time to follow
his father to the grave, and to find his mother

not only penniless, but overwhelmed with
debt. Having nothing but his pay to depend
on for a living for himself and a home for
her, his resolve was soon taken. He sold his
commission, purchased her a small annuity,
and placed her with an old and faithful servant
in a charming little cottage overlooking
the sea, in her native village of Trepolyia, in
the county of Cornwall.

He then came to London, where his first
task was to seek Blake and myself.

Small wonder that he could learn nothing
of either of us, since I was still lying in hospital,
while Phil was invalided and had quitted
the service.

Poor Jack's next task was to endeavour to
obtain employment. Two or three hours
every day were devoted to perusing advertisements,
writing letters, and making personal
applications.

He applied for the position of chief con-vol.
I. H

stable at Stow-in-the-Wold — of governor of
the prison at Kirkwall. In vain !

Wrote stories of his military experiences,
and sent them to the magazines. In vain !
They were returned endorsed " Not suitable'
or not returned at all.

He heard from his mother every week, but
her communications brought only cold comfort.
Her health was declining fast.

One Monday morning he missed the usual
letter.

Next day there came a telegram from the
village doctor — '' Your mother is dangerously
ill ; come immediately."

He had scarcely read the message when he
was on his way to the quiet village by the sea.
Alas ! he arrived too late.

For a time he remained at Trepolyia, dreaming
the hours away, dawdling drearily by the
coast, or aimlessly mooning over his mother's
grave.

One day the good old doctor blurted out,
^'Mr. Herbert, you had better cut this at
once. Go back to London; get to work —
work of any kind — or you'll go melancholy
mad."

Next day Jack returned to town and again
resumed his weary fight with fortune.

From morning till night he was on foot
seeking work of any description — here, there,
and everywhere. All avenues seemed closed
against him — all save one.

It did occur to him many times to write
to Fairfax and ask him if he would take him
in any department, but his pride intervened,
and he could not bear the thought of meeting
Clara Trevor as a dependant.

Too proud to importune former acquaintances,
he was gradually drifting down — down
in the whirlpool of the great city. At last he
took to staying at home all day, and prowling

abroad half the night, a prey to morbid fancies
fancies which sometimes lead to madness,
despair, and death.

One night he had been moping alone for
hours in the semi-darkness of his miserable
garret, situate in one of the slums on the
Surrey side of the river.

There he sat, looking at the Thames which
floated on under the cold moonlight, as
placidly as if the wind had never ruffled its
surface — as if its ample bosom had '' felt no
age nor known no sorrow."

All at once he started up and ejaculated,
*' One moment, and it would be all over."

Putting on his hat, he descended the stairs
and walked rapidly towards the bridge — '' The
Bridge of Sighs."

When he reached a central recess on the
right-hand side he paused, and looking down,
murmured, ^' Yes, there at least is peace."

At this moment the great bell of St. Paul's

Struck the midnight hour, and he found himself
mechanically counting the peals aloud.

Then a strange chord of memory was struck,
and vibrated through him.

He remembered as though it were yesterday
when, he and his comrades marched over that
very bridge on their way to Portsmouth, brave
in all the panoply of war ; horses prancing,
banners streaming in the sunshine, the band
playing '' The Girl I left behind me." He
remembered, too, the girl he had left behind
him. She stood on yonder balcony, waving
her handkerchief. Where was she now ?

He remembered, too, the very night before
they left England, how he and poor Harry
Armitage, after the theatre, had gone to

E 's. He recalled the sweet music they

had listened to. Poor Hal, he was lying low
out yonder in the desert wastes of the Soudan,
while he —

An hour or two will make no difference,
and I should like to hear ' That strain again.

it had a dying fall,' he muttered, as he passed
from the bridge, over the Strand, by the
Lyceum, up Wellington Street, to the left
through Russell Street, to the right, under
the Piazza, and so on into E 's.

How strange and changed it all seemed,
or was it he who was changed ?

The place was crowded with a frivolous
mob of men about town. A horse-faced
buffoon of the period arrayed in evening dress,
was braying out a succession of brutal insults
to distinguished statesmen.

By-and-bye, a brazen half-naked lion
comique, supposed to be of the feminine
gender, informed her hearers in a hoarse
voice '' That's how it's done."

After a time there was an exodus of the
** swells," then a silence, then —

He was at the very back of the Hall, his
arms were moodily folded on his breast, when
the boys who sang so divinely two years before
struck up the madrigal of " The Mother and

her Child." It was the very piece of music
he had heard when he and Harry Armitage
had sat there together, the very one his
mother used to sing to him when he was a
child.

The melody was wafted to him uncontaminated
by the smoke and the surroundings,
fresh, and pure, and sweet as the summer air.

For a moment the '^ mother" rose to his
eyes, and he was a child again.

Swallowing his tears, he muttered through
his teeth, '' Well, anyhow there's one comfort
; I shall ' make a swan-like end, fading in
music' Let me get away, and have done
with it at once." So saying he rose and
moved rapidly towards the door.

Was it fate, accident, or the '' divinity that
shapes our ends, rough-hew them how we
will," that at this moment projected him bodily
against Frank Fairfax ?

The manager exclaimed, 'herbert! I'm

glad to see you, my boy ; not hearing of you
we thought you were dead and buried months
ago."

''No/' rejoined Herbert, bitterly, '' I've,
sir, live, worse luck. But— there — there — I
must be off. Good-night."

Fairfax looked at him from head to foot —
saw his gaunt features, his great eyes starting
out of his head, his long, unkempt hair,
his seedy garments, and took stock of the
situation in a moment.

With characteristic bonhomie he said,
'' Don't be in such a deuce of a hurry ; remember
we have not seen each other for two
years or more, and have lots to talk about.
Nay — nay — I don't mean to let you go so
easily. I stay here ; always do when I'm in
town. I'm a late bird, and haven't supped
yet, so you must come and join me." So
saying, he took him by the arm, and led the
way through a side door to the adjacent
hotel.

In two minutes' time they were Installed In
the manager's private room, which was bright
as a roaring fire and half-a-dozen wax candles
could make It.

The table was laid for supper with all kinds
of nice things.

'' Here you are, my boy," said Fairfax ;
^' Liberty Hall — every man his own butler."
And he proceeded to open a bottle of sparkling
wine.

^' You are very good," said Herbert, '' but,
really, I can't stay ; I have Important business."


^' Business be blanked," rejoined the other ;
^' business tomorrow, pleasure to-night. I've
got you, and here I mean to keep you. Hereto
you," he continued, lifting a beaker of
Heldseck.

Herbert lifted his glass In response, put it
down untasted, and without uttering one word
fell back fainting.

*' Gracious God ! what's the matter?" exclaimed

Fairfax. '' Wake up, wake up, boy's
With that he untied Herbert's frayed neckcloth,
tore open his soiled and faded shirt (cruel
tell-tale), rushed to the adjacent bedroom,
brought out a flask of eau-de-cologne, bathed
the poor fellow's temples, sprinkled it over him,
and supporting his head upon his chest, began
to howl, '' Oh ! come, I say. Jack, never say
die ; it isn't fair to go dying this way. You
shan't die, d — d if you shall ! "

Gradually Herbert opened his eyes, looked
round, and seeing Fairfax, says — ■

^' Fve been alone a good deal, and Fm not
quite myself; and — no, no, it isn't that — Fve
been unused to kindness of late, and it is the
kindness that kills me ; and it — I — oh, Fairfax
! Fairfax ! " then he burst out crying
like a girl.

The tears did him good, for he made a
clean breast of it, and told Frank everything.
He listened in silence, and then said —

'' It's a lucky thing, my boy, that I met
you ; you are a deuced good actor, spoiled by
being a soldier. xA.ny blockhead can pull a
trigger or cut a throat, but it takes brains to
make an actor. Look here ! I'm beating up
for recruits ; I'll give you three guineas a
week to start with, and when you've rubbed
the rust off I'll make an actor of you. Not
another word ; eat first and talk afterwards.
For my part I'm hungry as a hunter, and
could eat a horse behind the saddle. Try the
fiz ; it will set you going. That's right, there
you are ! " and he piled Herbert's plate and
forced him to eat.

It was astonishing the change a hearty
supper and a bottle of champagne made in
him.

The two men smoked their cigars and had
a night-cap each.

Then Fairfax burst out again —

'' Make yourself at home here until we start

for the north. There ! Silence gives consent
; off you go to roost. You shall sleep
in my crib to-night. Not a word — goodnight,
God bless you, my boy ! " and so they
parted.

Herbert, to thank God for the pleasant
future that was dawning before him, not
altogether without thought of Clara, and as to
how that proud and imperious beauty (for so
she appeared to him) would receive him in
his altered circumstances. And so he mused
and mused until he fell asleep, and dreamt
that he was acting Romeo again to her Juliet,
and crowning her with the golden laurel
wreath.

MISS Shallower.

'* Fate, show thy face ; ourselves we do not owe.
What is decreed must be, and be this so ! "

Jack slept far into the next day.

When he awoke his threadbare garments
had disappeared, and a tolerably extensive
wardrobe was spread out all over the room
with a change of linen, &c.

He was a little " fogged " by the arrangement,
and rang the bell. In a moment Fairfax
himself appeared, bringing in a cup of tea,
which he made Herbert drink.

You've taken it out, my boy ; it's nearly

half-past four," said he. '' Now look here,
old man," he continued, '' we mustn't stand
on ceremony ; in the first place see if any of
these traps of mine will go near you. We'll
have an early dinner and go to the play. Tomorrow
well look up my tailors about your
''togs;" your "props" I've seen about
already. Meanwhile you must let me be your
banker. There are ;^2o ; if you want anymore,
say so, and you shall repay me at your
convenience. Now not another word. Dinner
will be ready in half an hour," and before
Jack could reply Fairfax left the room.

By that post he wrote to Clara, telling her
of the advent of Herbert, merely stating that
he had quitted the army and was about to
take to the stage. He thought the news
would please her, and it did. Dormant hope
revived ; at least she would see him once
more, and then — ah, then ! — well, we know
that " Hope springs eternal in the human
breast."

In a few days Fairfax's arrangements were
completed, and he and Jack left town by the
night express, getting to Rosemount at two in
the morning.

Mrs. Macnamara's lodgings in St. Dunstan's
Close had been secured for the new
recruit, and Fairfax dropped him there on his
way to the Theatre House.

When he got home Frank had a warmer
greeting than he had had for many a day.

Clara was always glad to welcome him, but
now she sprang upon him — she caressed and
kissed him repeatedly. She hung about
him, and cooed. She took off his coat and
wrappers. She pulled off his boots, and
patted his feet tenderly as she put on his
slippers. She had prepared a delicious little
supper with her own dainty hands. She
fluttered about like a butterfly, but always
ended by cooling up to him. He knew
what it all meant, though they had not exchanged

a single word about it. He merely
touched most lightly on the subject nearest
her heart, just casually remarking that Herbert
proposed calling in the morning to pay
his respects.

Once she was about to speak, but the words
stuck in her throat. She merely kissed him
again, and said, '^ How good you are ! " and
retired to rest.

Fairfax followed her example, and speedily
adjourned to the Ghost Room.

Herbert again slept till late. Nature was
reiterating herself for the weary nights
when sleep never visited the anguished pillow.
At last he was awakened by the cawing of
the rooks from the adjacent Minster Gardens.
The sun was shining through the old mullions
window, embowered in greenery, through
which he caught a glimpse of the Cathedral.
At first he had no idea where he was, but in
an instant it all came back, and he sprang out

of bed like a giant refreshed. He was strong
and young again ; when he looked In the
glass he scarce knew himself. The squalid,
hopeless, miserable past was left behind him
like a hideous dream.

Then he thought of her, of Clara — how
beautiful she was, how proud, how Innocent.

He wondered if she ever thought of the
poor soldier. They would act together, would
be thrown daily in each other's society, and
then — yes, then !

Anyhow It was his duty to call and leave
his card ; Indeed, he had promised Fairfax
that he would do so.

Notwithstanding his mind being thus exercised,
his body asserted the right to be cared
for, so he ate a hearty breakfast, dressed
himself with unusual care, and when he turned
out he was the handsomest young fellow to
be seen that day in the city of Rosemount.

With a strange feeling of embarrassment
VOL. I. I

he knocked at the door of the theatre house,
and enquired of Brown if Miss Trevor was at
home.

Brown was heartily glad to see him, but
replied that the young lady was out.

'' She stayed till half-past one, sir," he
said ; '' in fact, the chief kept the horses
waiting half-an-hour, thinking you would call.
Dinner's ordered for five, sir."

A little disappointed Herbert left his card
and said —

*' Will you say I called. Brown?"

Had Clara been at home — had they met
alone that morning — but it was not to be !

He turned from the door, and once and for
all the current of their Ives was changed.
He paused for a moment to look at the playbill.
All the old names were there, and one
or two new ones which he did not know.

Then he resumed his walk.

Sauntering through the main street of the
city he turned towards the right, passed over
the river's bridge, and walked straight on till
he reached the city's gates. Then he
ascended by the Barbican, and strolled along
the summit of the walls, which commanded a
magnificent view of the adjacent country.

It had been his favourite walk when quartered
at Rosemount. Here, many a time
and oft, had he, poor Harry Armitage, and
Phil Blake strolled in the gloaming to smoke
their evening cigars. He paused to look into
the Convent grounds which lay beneath.
The nuns were moving noiselessly and listlessly
to and fro, just as they were wont to
move a year ago— just as their predecessors
were wont to move a century ago.

The very last time he stood on this spot
with his friends, night was falling, and the
sisterhood were flitting about in the same

ghostly, aimless manner as now, and he began
instinctively to quote Maturing's fine lines —

*' Yea ! thus they live, if life it can be called,

Where moving shadows mock the parts of men."

*' Of women, you mean," interrupted Hal.

** Aye, very much women, dear boys," said
Phil.

^' Don't you know that it was here, in this
very cage beneath our feet, that poor, fiery,
frail Anne Bellamy fretted her heart out
against the prison bars, till she burst forth
and shattered her wings in that last fatal
flight that ended in misery, and shame, and
worse." And then he told them the story of
the spoiled beauty.

Herbert remembered every word that Phil
had said. He could hear the very sound of
the rich musical voice.

Poor Phil ! where was he ? And what had
become of her ?

At this moment a young lady, clad in deep

mourning, approached. She was tall, and of
distinguished demeanour. Lifting his hat he
stepped aside to let her pass. As she did so
she raised her eyes, the blood rushed from
her heart to her face, as she exclaimed —

'' Mr. Herbert ! "

"Miss Blake!" he answered, in astonishment.
'' Good heavens ! How strange! At
this very moment I was thinking of you."

Of me ! " she replied, in equal astonishment.


Of you ; the very last time I was here your
father stood beside me on this very spot."

My father ! My poor father ! " she said,
sadly."

Something in the tone of her voice struck
him.

Pardon me," said he, " you are in mourning.
Is it for — ? "

For both," she answered. *' He came
back from that dreadful Soudan death-stricken.
Mamma tended him by day and

night, and in less than a week after he had
been taken from us she followed him ; they
share the same grave."

'' Forgive me," said Herbert, *that I have
recalled this great trouble."

Trouble," she answered. '' It is a relief,
it is a pleasure to speak of him, and her, to one
who knew them, and who loved him as I know
he — he loved you. I am here amongst
strangers, to whom I am unknown, even byname,
and in all that pertains to my past life
my lips are sealed."

'' Amongst strangers ! " and then he enquired
with diffidence — '' May I venture to enquire
what has brought you here ? "

'' My profession."

'' Your profession ! "

'' Yes. I am fulfilling an engagement at
the theatre."

*' At the theatre here?"

'' Yes, here, sir, where once upon a time
you enacted young Romeo."

** You astonish me."

'' Oh I nothing more natural. I always
loved the art, and when I found myself cast
on the world I resolved to try the stage.
One must live, you know. I had often heard
papa speak of Mr. Fairfax, his kindness and
liberality to young beginners, so after every
stage-door in London had been closed in
my face, I induced an eminent actress
who had given me some lessons to accompany
me to his rooms at his hotel in town,
and he gave me an engagement there and
then.

I have been in his company more than ten
months.

'' If you are staying here to-night I hope
you will come and see me act."

'' I will not only come and see you act, but
I hope I shall soon act with you."

'you— you!"

Oh ! yes. I sold out more than twelvemonths
ago, and am going to tempt fortune

on the stage myself — in fact, I am here now
to join Mr. Fairfax's company."

How strange' she said, as they walked
back towards the city. '' And what are you
going to act, pray ? "

Whatever Mr. Fairfax chooses to give
me. He says I am to begin at the beginning.
And you — what do you act ? "

*' Oh, anything — everything, but I have
already been entrusted with many very important
parts."

Pardon me, but I didn't perceive your
name in the list of the company."

*' No ; my friend, Mrs. Vavasor, advised
me not to act under my own name until I
had made my mark, so even Mr. Fairfax
himself is in total ignorance of my family
or friends. I am known here only as Miss
Challenger."

remiss Challenger?"

^^ Yes, and you will oblige me by remembering
Miss Blake only to forget her.

Please recollect that for the present I am
simply Miss Challenger."

'' I shall recollect," he replied.

Then they chatted about the theatre, about
the company, about everybody but Miss
Clara Trevor.

Strange, they both instinctively avoided all
mention even of her name !

At length they reached the ferry-boat, in
which they crossed the river ; then, resuming
their homeward way, they reached Precentor's
Court, where Caroline lodged in an old-fashioned
house, the first from the main
street.

They lingered for a moment at the door,
and, as he lifted his hat to turn away, she
said —

'* Now, Mr. Herbert, what is it Laertes says
to Ophelia ? —

' Remember well
What I have said to you.' "

Placing his finger on his lip, he responded

with mock gravity —

** 'Tis in my memory locked.
And you yourself shall keep the key."

Then, with a smile on his lips, he took one
step into the street, where he encountered,
face to face — Fairfax and Clara.

By some fatality they were walking their
horses past at that very moment.

They heard the words and saw the action,
though Caroline, who had entered the house,
did not see them.

The interview, the incident, the words were
all the most innocent things in the world, yet
the whole affair was most ?nal apropos.

Herbert bowed to Clara and Fairfax, and
made towards them to offer his hand, but they
both vouchsafed only the current recognition
and passed on.

Now five minutes' explanation would have
made all right, but he had given his promise
to Caroline, and felt himself bound by it.

As he strolled towards his lodgings he
thought he would go back and ask her
consent to his explaining the nature and
extent of their acquaintance to Fairfax, and
he returned to Precentor's Court for the
purpose.

All at once it occurred to him that she
might imagine there was something between
him and Clara, which rendered such an
explanation necessary ; then he resolved that
he would seek Fairfax at once and tell him
that Miss Challoner was the daughter of their
mutual friend, Phil Blake, and, firm in this
resolution, he walked rapidly towards the
Theatre House, reached the door, and — turned
away.

'' No, no," said he, '' if I go volunteering
explanations of this kind they will think there
is an ' affair ' between the girl and me. Let
it side."

Such accidents as these determine the

career of a life — a life did I say ? — sometimes
of many lives.

You go up one street or down another and
you meet your fate in the shape of some
fragile woman or some stalwart man. Had
you gone down the one street or up the other
you had perchance escaped a life of weal or
woe.

I don't think Herbert knew his own mind
when he sallied forth that morning. Had he
called earlier at the Theatre House, had he
not taken that walk upon the city walls, how
different might have been the fate of all
concerned.

He went home to his simple meal, but he
did not enjoy it with the appetite of the
morning.

When Clara and Fairfax sat down to
dinner there was a death's head at the feast ;
yes, there it was, in the middle of the table,
staring them both in the face. They couldn't

eat that, nor could they eat much else at that
sitting. Dinner was a failure.

When the cloth was removed, Clara said —

'^ Papa, will you do me a great favour ? "

'* Anything in the world, my darling, that I
can do."

Thanks. You told me this morning that
Mr. Herbert was to open In Romeo next
week. I don't care to act with amateurs ;
please don't let me play JuHet."

''My child," Fairfax replied, "do be
reasonable ; it will be one of the greatest
houses of the season."

So much the better ; I shall not be
missed, and you've promised, you know."

Yes, I know I promised ; but, good
Heavens ! what am I to do for a Juliet ? "

Oh ! there's Miss Challoner, another
amateur. They will understand each other
admirably ; in fact, they do already."

** Clara," said Fairfax, gravely, '' don't
talk nonsense. Herbert is a man of the
world — has * seen men and cities ' — "

'' And women too, I've no doubt," she
answered, bitterly.

Certainly, no doubt," replied Fairfax.
'* I presume he has met Miss Challoner
somewhere in his travels. Surely there's
nothing criminal, or even remarkable in
that ! "

'' I did not say there was," replied Clara;
*' only it does not say much for his taste —
an awkward, gawky, sallow creature like
that ! "

'■'' Chacun a son gout' muttered Fairfax,
as if he were not altogether of that way of
thinking.

'' But, apart from that, I don't suppose
Miss Challoner has ever played Juliet," he
continued.

** Well, she has got a week to get * up ' in
the part, and she can ' learn the drama's light
from Romeo's eyes.' " And then Clara went
to Fairfax and hugged him, and said, '* Oh !
papa, bear with me, for I am very unhappy ;

never speak to me again about it. And oh 1
for Heaven's sake, don't ask me to play
Juliet ! " And then she rushed from the
room.

Poor Clara ! poor Fairfax ! what more
could he do to help her ?

He lighted his cigar, unfolded his Times,
and growled, '' D — n the fellow ! If I were
his age, and only had the chance."

The following morning Herbert called at
the Theatre House to pay his respects to
Clara.

'' Miss Trevor was out," Mrs. Brown said,
curtly, '' and Mr. Fairfax was engaged ;
but the stage-manager would acquaint Mr.
Herbert with anything requisite to know
about the business of the theatre."

Accordingly, to the stage-manager Herbert
went. Mr. Tony Aston, a somewhat brusque
and eccentric old man, informed him that he
was to open in Romeo on the ensuing Monday,

but that a rehearsal would be called tomorrow
for him and Miss Challoner, who played
Juliet."

The alteration in the cast astonished
Herbert, but he had been a soldier, and he
knew his first duty was obedience ; so he
heard all, and said nothing.

To his surprise, and, indeed, to the surprise
of everybody else, Caroline was letter
perfect in the text and thoroughly au fait in
the '^ business."

It was the one particular part she had
known backward from childhood — the one
particular part it had been the ambition of
her life to play.

Apart from all this, she had studied it with
Mrs. Vavasor, besides which she had seen
every actress of eminence who in her time
had attempted Juliet.

As for Clara, if she were ungenerous enough

to have thrown up the part merely to spite
Herbert (and she was only a woman), she
was '' hoist with her own petard," for she had
given Caroline a chance for which she might
have waited for months — perhaps years.

Although Fairfax sympathized with his
ward, he did not suffer his feelings to affect
the interests of the theatre ; hence he made
a feature of Herbert's opening, assured that,
for one night at least, his friends would crowd
the house.

Then the local papers spoke of " Captain
Herbert, the hero of Tel-el-Kebir, who had
taken to the stage, and would appear In his
magnificent impersonation of Romeo, so
well remembered here," &c.

All the upper ten of Rosemount mustered

in strong force. The Marquis of H and

his family, the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress, the officers In garrison, and all
the little big-wigs of the place.

VOL. I. K

The theatre was crowded, and Herbert had
a tremendous reception. Poor Clara, sitting
in her room in the Theatre House, heard it
distinctly.

It was a night of triumph for Herbert, and
a still greater one for Caroline, but of torture
for Clara.

Perhaps, in her heart of hearts, she thought
that Caroline would break down at the rehearsals,
that he would come and beseech
her to play Juliet. Perhaps she thought
that the audience would resent another
woman's playing her part.

Alas ! the fickle multitude accepted the
change with disgusting equanimity — even
welcomed the stranger, and enjoyed the
new sensation. It was hard to bear !

Fairfax saw it all — his practised eye detected
genius in Caroline and power in
Herbert.

He had much to learn, Caroline but little;

but when he had learnt he would tower over
them all, that was Fairfax's opinion.

The furore increased act after act.

At last Clara could endure it no longer.
Throwing a shawl over her head, she rushed
from the side door of the house into the pit
passage and leaped up the gallery steps.
Olympus was crowded to the roof, but there
she stood, at the back, amidst the great unwashed,
and witnessed the last scene, until
the curtain fell amidst a tempest of applause.

Then she sprang downstairs, returned to
the house, bathed her face and eyes, and
kept down her emotion as well as she could.
For the future she resolved that her artistic
ambition should triumph over her woman's
weakness, that she would garner up her
laurels ; and that henceforth no one, manor
woman, should rob her of a single leaf.

She bustled about and prepared Fairfax's
supper, and when he came in, rather moody

and depressed, she went up to him, bright and
smiling, and putting her arms round his neck
she said —

*' Papa, I've been very fooHsh, but oh 1
forgive me this once, and I'll never do so
any more."

He kissed her, and said —

'' Ah, my child, when you are older and
wiser you'll know better. There, there, say
no more about it."

On presenting himself at the theatre next
morning, Herbert met with a cordial greeting
from everyone but Clara, who sat alone at
the prompt table.

When he approached to make his devoirs
she rose and gave him the coldest, most
chilling reception.

He tried to make conversation for a few
minutes on subjects of general interest, but
he might as well have tried to thaw the North
Pole ; so, finding every advance he made met

with most freezing politeness, he took his
departure, somewhat mortified. Pride, always
his foible, but now his safeguard, came to the
rescue, and he resolved henceforth to be as
distant as she was ; while as to Caroline —
well, perhaps he had already compromised
her by his indiscreet attentions. For the
future it behoved him to be more prudent.
Besides, had he not his art to occupy his
thoughts and engross his mind ? We shall
see.

For the first week he had an easy time, too
easy in fact. He went to the theatre nightly
to see the performances, which he now regarded
with especial interest, and justly so,
inasmuch as nothing but the best pieces
were selected, and they were performed in
the best manner.

One morning Fairfax said to him —
'' Now look here, Jack, I like you, and I
like not everyone ; and if you will be guided

by me I'll put you on the right track, but we
must have no illusions. Don't imagine that
you can leap upon the stage, like Pallas from
the front of Jove, and say, ' Hoop-la ! here I
am — an actor, ready-made ! ' Not so, my
boy. Remember that ' Humility is the first
step in the ladder of wisdom ' ; hence you
must work morning, noon, and night if ever
you mean to succeed. What is it Sir Joshua
says — or is it old Bruin or Burke who says it
for him ? — ' Excellence was never granted toman
but as the reward of labour.' "

Herbert took this advice to heart, and profited
by it. He was always ready to put his
shoulder to the wheel in every department.
If any member of the company was indisposed
or unable from any cause to fulfil his
duties, he was the stop-gap ; if anyone was
unable to study a long part at short notice,
he came to the rescue.

With such industry, such ardour, and such
modesty the result could not be doubtful.

And now help me, gentle reader, to leap
over two years at a bound.

After a year of assiduous and indefatigable
application Herbert had mastered the
rudiments of his art. His muscles were
entirely subservient to his mind, habit had
become second nature — no occasion now to
pause to think what to do with his hands or
where to place his feet. He moved with
grace, ease, elegance, distinction, and perfect
harmony of motion. In a word, he had
become an actor, and was now dividing
public favour with Clara, with Caroline, and
even with Fairfax himself.

Meanwhile the relations between those two
young ladies had, unfortunately, not become
more cordial.

Of course, Clara had a monopoly of nearly
all the great parts, but Caroline's performance
of Juliet (of which she retained undisturbed
possession) brought her immediately

to the front, and Clara found that by her
own imprudence she had enabled her rival to
leap at once into public favour.

Henceforth it was a fight between these
two for fame, and something more precious
even than that.

MY OWN ORDEAL.

Poverty abhor'd of men."

On my return to England I found that Jack
had sold out, that Phil Blake was Invalided,
and that the regiment, or what was left of it,
had been sent to the Cape.

I got Herbert's last letter from Cox's, and
wrote to him there. I wrote also to Blake in
Ireland.

Both letters came back, endorsed '' Gone
address unknown."

I called on my old schoolmaster at Clapham
'' dead ! "

I went down to Sandhurst. Couldn't find
a soul there who knew, or cared to know, me.

Hopelessly lame In my left ankle and suffering
from a severe attack of bronchitis, I felt
quite incapacitated for the active duties of
my profession, and I, too, sold out.

As I was now living on my small capital it
was essential to look at every shilling ; hence
I retired to humble diggings on the other
side of the river.

Strangely enough, as I learnt afterwards,
when we compared notes, I lived within a
hundred yards of where Herbert hung out.
Had I only known it what a blessing it would
have been to both of us, but in London
you may live next door — nay, in the very
same house with your dearest friend, and not
become aware of his existence. Anyhow,
Jack and I were within a stone's throw of
each other and didn't know it.

When his struggles were over mine were
about to begin in serious earnest.

My father at one time had some Httle
influence at the India House, and I thought
his name might prove a passport to something
in the Company's Civil Service. For upwards
of two years I tried to obtain employment, butin
vain. At length my little hoard was almost
exhausted, and I had to look forward to a
hopeless struggle for bread.

When I recall that time, without a friend —
nay, even an acquaintance — no home but a
miserable, squalid lodging, with a loud-mouthed,
brutal shrew of a landlady, I wonder
I ever lived through it. Fortunately I had
my books, my blessed books — not many, it is
true, but good — my pipe, my daily penny
paper, and an occasional shilling or sixpenny-worth
in the gallery of a theatre.

Sundays I made a perpetual holiday, by
every week seeking out a fresh place of
worship, and thereby gaining many strange
experiences which may some day see the
light.

'^ When things get to the worst they must
mend or end," and at length it pleased God
to take compassion on my loneliness and my
misery, and to send me succour in the shape
of a — fiddler!

Amongst the extraordinary coincidences of
Jack's life and mine the occurrence I am
about to relate is not the least remarkable.

Jack's Deus ex niachina turned up at
Evans's j mine exactly opposite Southern's
book-shop, at the corner of Lancaster Place.

One afternoon, loafing idly along the
Strand, my eyes cast on the ground (for I
was beginning to give life up as a bad job), I
accidentally stumbled against a man, who
exclaimed —

Bonn er wetter ! can you not — Ali! Mein
Got I — it is Penarvon ! " and I found myself
being violently hugged and embraced by our
late bandmaster.

A crowd gathered round us. They must
have thought we were both mad, seeing two

great bearded men hugging one another, and
sobbing Hke a pair of hysterical school-girls.

Van Vort was the first to recover, and he
said to the astonished gapers —

'' Good people, it is mine comrade from the
Soudan. We have fought together for your
England. I thought him dead, and I find
him alive. That is all ! "

As he took me by the arm and led me
down the Strand a cheer arose that might
have been heard at Charing Cross.

The sound almost upset me, but Van Vort
was steady as a rock, and I hung on to him
and never let go until I came to anchor at his
club, a famous theatrical rendezvous in the
Savoy.

There he ordered dinner and wine, the
best the place afforded.

Then he talked — ye gods ! how he talked !
He rattled off his own experiences without
taking breath.

He had relinquished his appointment as

bandmaster of the — th, and was now leader
of the orchestra at the Frivolity — a capital
appointment. His manager was an excellent
musician, and the most enterprising fellow in
the world ; his band was the best in London,
and he was now engaged in composing and
selecting the music for the new extravaganza,
'^ The Banker of the Bosphorus." Then he
enquired about my prospects.

By this time I had had a glass or two of
wine, and I was really so glad to see the
honest fellow that I told him exactly how I
was situated.

''Ah," said he, 'ewe will soon alter that.
First we must send to Herbert."

"What about Herbert?" I enquired.

Then he told me all about Jack's career ; he
was the coming man, the biggest actor alive,
and had great influence with his manager.
Van Vort was sure he would find me a
berth of some kind. There and then I wrote
to Herbert, and next morning got a telegram

from him in reply, urging me to come down to
Rosemount immediately.

Without an hour's delay I left cruel London
behind me, and when I arrived at my
journey's end I found my dear old friend's
heart and arms open to receive me as of old.

HER majesty's servants.

The actors are at hand, and by their show
You shall know all that you are like to know."

Jack's Benefit took place on the very night of
my arrival. After introducing me to Mr.
Fairfax (who received me with the utmost
courtesy), he took me round to the front of
the house before the doors were opened, and
put me in the first row of the dress circle,
where, luckily for me, there remained one
seat still unlet. Presently in came the
audience with a rush, and five minutes later
the theatre was crowded in every part.

The play was Banim and Shell's noble and
almost forgotten play " Damon and Pythias."
I forget what the after-piece was.

I had never seen the theatre, had never
seen either of the plays, or any of the players
before.

After the gloom and loneliness of my life in
London the gay and exciting scene seemed
enchantment, and when the curtain rose I
was in Elysium.

Herbert acted Damon ; a Mr. Bellhouse,
Pythias ; and Mr. Boanergus, before referred
to, was Dionysius ; Caroline was Damon's
wife, Hermon ; and Clara was Calanthe, the
beloved of Pythias.

When the play commenced there was a
short scene occupied by some of the minor
characters. Then Herbert came on, and a
shout of recognition arose which filled the
theatre. At first he seemed as if his mind
was so engrossed with the thoughts which

VOL. I. L

were struggling for utterance that he was
obvious of all else, but the applause was so
loud, and so prolonged, that he started from
his reverie and bowed a brief acknowledgment.


Here I fear the captious critic and even the
patient, long-suffering reader may be tempted
to exclaim, '' Confound the fellow ! what has
this to do with the story ? "

Gracious critic, gentle reader, I wish to introduce
my hero and my rival heroines just as
they were introduced to me, and, furthermore,
I want to endeavour to impress you as I was
impressed on this eventful occasion.

If you object that 'heroes are bores," I
reply, '' Speak for yourselves ! "

For my part I refuse to believe that an age
which has produced and deified a Mazzini, a
Garibaldi, a Lincoln, a Garfield, a Granta
Gambetta, and a Gordon does not sympathize
with heroes.

Without hero-worship there would be no

heroes. I am a worshipper. Jack is my
hero and Clara and Caroline my heroines !

Of course you will retort with amused
disdain, '^ My good man, gush as much as you
please over a soi-disant soldier turned play-actor,
and two young ladies, who, despite
your rhapsodies, are mere country play-actresses,
but don't expect us to follow suit."

Now here I have the advantage ; you must
either follow suit or throw up the cards.

You shall have the mustard,
Else you get no beef from Gremio."

Abandoning metaphor, if you don't care to
know what my hero and heroines are like,
drop this book and take up another ; if you
do care, follow me while I endeavour to describe
them.

To begin, then, with my hero.

Imagine, if you please, a man of nearly six
feet, built in heroic mould, clad in the glorious
garb of old Greece — an under-garment of
some thin, delicate saffron-coloured material.

relieved by a flowing robe of dark purple. A
majestic head, with a profusion of brown
waving hair, dashed here and there with gold.
An oval face, with a delicate straight nose,
from which radiated downwards from either
nostril those two deep lines which emotion
always appears to trace in the features of
great actors ; massive eyebrows, with long
dark eyelashes, piercing splendid eyes ; a
mouth, firm almost to obstinacy, with the
under lip slightly pouting above the dimpled
chin ; a fair, smoothly-shaven face, which
scarcely revealed a trace of his rich brown
beard, thus enabling him to the last to preserve
the aspect of perpetual youth.

*' Thro' his bright eyes Apollo beamed in light,
On his imperial brows Jove set the seal of might!"

Such was the picture of my dear old chum
when I first beheld him on the stage, and for
many a night after.

As the play progressed, Damon appeared to
be in peril from some ruffian soldiers, and

there came to his rescue a tall, handsome
young fellow, hight Pythias, of fair complexion,
well featured, well-formed too, but,
to my thinking, rather commonplace.

To him enters Calanthe.

The reader has met with Clara Trevor
before, but no justice has yet been done to her
marvellous beauty ; bear with me, then, while
I stay to describe her as she first burst on my
enraptured sight.

Like Rosalind, she was '' more than common
tall ; " and the noble undulations of
her supple and ebullient figure revealed their
statuesque outlines beneath her almost diaphanous
robes of white samite and silver. Her
face, which was of a pure oval, was surmounted
with the brow of a goddess ; her
nose was short, straight, and delicate, with
nostrils as mobile as they were transparent ;
while her dazzling teeth shone like ivory
through the ripe, scarlet lips, which curved
over them like the bow of Cupid.

'' Then her neck, Jack, her neck ! "

Her skin was white as alabaster, and surely
she had the most perfect hands, arms, and
shoulders in all the wide world !

Her eyes, luminous with liquid living light,
were grey, or green, or blue, or brown, or violet,
or all combined ; her brows and eyelashes were
black as the darkest night, and her beautiful
head was crowned with a waving glory of red
hair, bound with a fillet of white, and fastened
in one huge knot behind.

Mark, gentle reader, her hair was none of
your beastly auri comus, but Red, real Red; the
Red that Titian and Tintoretto loved to paint !

In the last scene, as she fell fainting in
Pythias' arms, by accident or design the
fillet burst, and when her glorious tresses
streamed down almost to her knees, they
literally covered her shoulders and his as with
a flood of flaming sunbeams !

When she spoke, her voice, like Desde-
mona's, was 'ran alarum to love."

As for her smile, her lover spoke but prosaic
truth when he exclaimed —

'' By the birth of Venus,
When she rose from out the sea,
And filled the Grecian Isles with everlasting verdure,
Her smile, fresh from the soft creation of the wave.
Was not more beautiful than thine,
My own Calanthe 1 "

As she and her soldier-lover passed forth,
the wife of Damon glided on, and twined her
lovely arms round his neck, resting her superb
head with its massive coils of blue-black hair
on his broad shoulders. Dazzled and delighted
as I had been with the glowing charms
of Clara, I was profoundly impressed with the
majesty and grace, the classic and imperial
beauty of Caroline.

Two women so lovely, and yet of such
opposing types of loveliness, I had never seen
before, nor have I since. The one was '' like
the morning, dewy-eyed and fair ; the other
like the twilight, soft and dark." This striking
contrast gave an added charm to both.

I suppose had I been cast the part of Paris,
being myself as black as a crow, I should
naturally have awarded the auriferous fruit to
my golden-haired goddess.

When Damon and Hermon spoke they
filled the air with music ; and, as they moved,
each step and every gesture recalled to my
mind visions of '^ that marble majesty of the
elder world," when Phidias devoted his genius
to the '' deification of man's strength and
woman's loveliness."

I followed the progress of the play with
continually increasing interest until it approached
a termination.

Calanthe had been borne fainting from the
stage.

*' Beside the block the sullen headsman stood'*

Pythias had nerved himself to die for his
friend's sake. His comely head was bowed
upon the block, the axe was uplifted in the

air, the fatal blow was about to descend,
when lo ! the hum of distant voices — shouts,
nearer, yet nearer still. Then an acclamation
that shook the theatre, as the prison gates
were dashed asunder, and in the centre of the
stage stood a wild, demented man. His dress
was torn to tatters, his head and neck besmeared
by a bloody sweat, his hair dishevelled,
his nostrils dilated, and his eyes
ablaze. With a wild, maniacal laugh, which
sent a thrill through me and through the
house, his eyes flashed fire ; his face became
fixed ; a convulsive quiver, a sort of rigor
mortis, appeared to pass through every limb
and every nerve ; till, with a crash which
seemed to shake the building to its base,
Damon fell senseless on the stage.

The illusion was so complete, and the
effect so awful, that I really thought that
he was stricken dead, and was with difficulty
restrained from going to his help.

Presently, however, he recovered from
his swoon, and, recognizing Pythias, in a
paroxysm of delirious joy he recounted how
he had obtained the good steed, with whose
timely help he had been enabled to return to
Syracuse in time to redeem his promise and to
save his friend.

At this moment Dionysius advanced and
called upon the proud Pythagorean to redeem
his word.

At the sound of the tyrant's voice,
Damon sprang from the centre of the stage,
and with one bound leaped upon the scaffold,
exclaiming, " Lo ! I am here ! "

As the words left his lips he stood like a
man transformed to stone.

The effect was electrical. The house
rose " at him, and the audience went mad
with excitement ; so did I.

In the end the friends were restored to
life, love, and liberty, and amidst the general
rejoicing the curtain fell.

I was so excited and delighted that I didn't
care to see the after-piece ; so I rose and
left the theatre and strolled round the minster
in the moonlight, smoking my pipe and thinking
over what I had seen, till the streaming
out of the crowd told me the performance
was over.

I have dwelt at length upon the impressions
of that memorable night, not only
because it marked an epoch in this story,
but because it was then that for the first
time I saw the light of my life.

Ah ! my darling ! I loved you from that
moment, and I shall love you until I die !

MY FIRST AND LAST APPEARANCE AS AN
ACTOR.

'* Fools rush in where angels fear to tread."

Thanks to Herbert's influence, my name
was placed on the free list.

I was punctual in my attendance at the
boxes every night. Sometimes I had them
almost entirely to myself. On these occasions
Jack used to call me the '' box audience."
More frequently, though, I was
crowded out of sight, and was glad to
squeeze In where I could.

There were three or four new pieces every

week. Think of that, hlas^. London playgoers,
condemned to one piece for twelvemonths
running !

Of course the accumulation of this abundant
repertoire had been the result of years
of labour; but the acting appeared so easy,
so simple, so natural, that I needs must think
it was the easiest thing in the world to do,
and that I could go on the stage and act
myself.

One day Jack came home sorely exercised
in his mind at being cast '' Joseph Surface,"
a part he had never acted, and one, moreover,
which he detested.

Now, '' The School for Scandal " was a
play in which I took great interest, arising
from the fact that in our regimental amateur
performances, when I was in the Greys, I had
acted '' Careless," and, having a decent baritone
voice, had not only sung the incidental
song, " Here's to the maiden of bashful
fifteen," but had actually got an encore for it.

Of course I duly recounted my '' peaceful
triumphs " to Jack, who used to banter me in
his quiet, pleasant manner, and say, '^ I see
that'll be the end of it. Bob — you'll be disgracing
your family by going on the stage
yourself."

There is many a true word spoken in
jest." I don't think I disgraced my family,
but I certainly disgraced the stage by bringing
upon it (I can afford to be candid now)
the most arrant duffer that ever walked on
two legs.

This was how it befel : —

On the morning of the production of '^ The
School for Scandal" Bellhouse, who was the
stock Careless, in going down the pit passage,
sprained his ankle by slipping on a
piece of orange peel, and had to be carried
home. There was no possibility of his acting
that night ; hence it occurred to Jack that
here was a desirable opening for me. So
down he came to St. Dunstan's Close.

dragged me up to the theatre, and, almost
before I knew where I was, I found myself
pitchforks on the stage rehearsing Careless.
Of course I was letter-perfect in the
words, and rattled them off glibly enough.
I sang my song, too, without a false note.
It was in vain that I urged that I was lame ;
Jack insisted that my infirmity was scarcely
perceptible.

The whole thing was done so quickly I
hadn't time to get nervous in the morning.

Alas ! it was a very different thing at night.
My delusion was roughly dispelled, and I was
soon fated to learn the difference between an
amateur and an actor !

A great house was anticipated ; all the
seats were taken for the boxes.

The play was a never-failing attraction
when Fairfax played in it.

Charles was his crack part. Other Hamlets,
Othello, and Macbeth there were in abundance

; but there was only one Charles Surface,
and his name was Frank Fairfax. Besides
this, the play was admirably acted and
superbly mounted.

There was only one drawback — my unlucky
self.

Jack was engrossed and preoccupied all
the afternoon, having Joseph Surface on the
brain. So was I ; and by about five o'clock
I began to quake.

I didn't know what stage-fright meant
then. I know now.

Jack kept ominously silent, or spoke only
in monosyllables. At last I could stand it
no longer, so off I went, taking the precaution,
however, to borrow from him a pair
of shoes and buckles, a pair of white silk
stockings, some ruffles, and other fal-lals.

I had looked out my costume in the morning,
and left it in the spot assigned for my
dressing-place.

When I arrived at the theatre the gas was

not lighted, so I turned out and took a stroll
round the mister while I smoked a pipe.
Usually the nicotian weed soothes me, now
it only irritated me.

Back I went to the theatre. Found it still
in total darkness ; out again into the streets,
until I fretted myself into a fever.

Another half-hour, then back again. At
last the gas is lighted, only half-lighted
though ; 'tis a sort of darkness visible.

1 grope my way down a long, gloomy,
vaulted corridor to the dressing-room.

I am the first man in.

The place is awfully quiet, not a sound,
not a breath is to be heard ; there is something
ghastly, sepulchral, and uncanny about
the whole arrangement.

There are ten or a dozen wig-blocks, looking
awfully like human spectral skulls, surmounted
by white-powdered wigs ; they are
screwed on the edges of the long toilet
tables on either side of the room.

VOL. I. M

Hanging up here and there are the embroidered
coats and hats of a century ago ;
there is an eerie look about it all.

I find my way to my dressing-place (it is
next to Jack's), and commence overhauling
my costume ; it is a queer, old-fashioned
Court dress, a real one. I wonder what
youthful macaroni was presented at Court in
it, how many generations of Careless's have
worn it before me, how many of them are
living, how many dead, and where they are
buried ?

A lively train of thought I've got into
certainly !

All at once it occurs to me that my unfortunate
legs are not 'things of beauty,"
and that I'd better cover them up before the
other fellows arrive.

I begin to wrestle with Jack's stockings.
There's room enough and to spare in the
legs, but oh ! my unfortunate feet !

At last I succeed in getting them on, and
commence another tussle with my subH-
macula. I am rather ignorant of the geography
of these unmentionable garments,
but at last I struggle into them.

At this moment I look up towards the
door, and as I'm a mortal man (don't laugh,
reader), I see, or think I see, the figure of
a pale-faced woman in white in the doorway !

She is looking steadfastly at me. Evidently
she is a well-bred woman, inasmuch as
she has deferred her visit till I am fit to
receive her as a gentleman should.

I advance, she retires. As I reach the
doorway the lights go up with a sound like
the whistle of a small steam engine. Then
the sound of advancing feet, the hubbub of
voices, pleasant laughter — the murmur of a
gathering crowd in the pit passage underneath.


A minute afterwards and the dressing-room
is filled with the '' boys." I breathe again,

although I am still puzzled to know what
'' The White Ladyee " can possibly want
with me.

I once thought of speaking to Jack on the
subject, but concluded that he had enough
on his mind already. As for the other
fellows, I'd no desire to become the butt
of the dressing-room.

Fact or fancy as the apparition might have
been, it certainly doesn't help me over the
ground either in my preparations or my
subsequent performance. Jack could give
me no help, and all the others were dressing
away for dear life to begin the piece. They,
however, left old Wigley, one of the dressers,
entirely to me. Poor old Wig is normally
imbecile, but on this occasion he is wholly
idiotic, and " tight as a drum " in the
bargain.

My next operation is to get on Jack's shoes,
which are nearly two sizes too small, and give
me ^'f^ts."

I have no wig, and it is necessary to powder
my hair ; of course I don't know how to set
about it. Wigley suggests I should commence
operations by anointing my head with
bears' grease, but the powder won't adhere.

Accepting another suggestion from Bonner
I plaster my hair with soap. The powder
sticks fast enough then, I warrant you.

By this time the first act is over, the actors
return from the stage, laughing and talking.
I can't see what there is to laugh at ; at any
rate, I am in no mood for laughter.

The second act has commenced. " Now,"
I imagine, " I am sure to have the dressing-room
to myself." A large, well-furnished room
it was, but, confound the fellows ! one half of
them still remain to tell funny stories. I can't
see the Joe Miller of their ancient " wheezes."
Why the deuce can't they go to the greenroom
? "

My hair, which curls naturally, is rather of
a woolly texture — is utterly intractable, and
sticks up and down in frankly undulations ;
while, as to my face, in vain I plaster pigment
over pigment, they only melt and burst out in
blotches, leaving my black beard blacker than
ever.

As I stand trembling before the glass, I
contemplate the reflection with horror ; there
is no mistake about it, the '' make-up " is a
ghastly failure ; I am more like a nigger than
an English gentleman.

The second act is over now, and the call-boy
sings out, '' Beginners for the third act ! "

'' Good heavens ! " I exclaim, '' I'm on in
the third scene ! What shall I do ? "

'' Try back, sir," mumbles Wigley.

Happy thought ! I will wash the beastly
stuff off, and begin all over again.

Away I rush to the wash-stand, sluice my
face with soap and water, rub it dry until it is

red as beet-root, while 'reach particular hair
stands on end like quills upon the fretful porcupine."


The actors — for they are all good fellows
cease to laugh at each other's jokes now ;
each one suggests his particular process of
^* making-up ; " everyone begins to assist me,
when lo ! the call-boy makes the special call,
always eagerly anticipated in this play —

'' Mr. Fairfax's compliments, will the gentlemen
do him the honour to take wine with him
on the stage ? "

At this summons I am left to my fate and
to Wigley, who is now more idiotic than ever.

Two minutes later the call-boy returns, and
roars out, '' Mr. Penarvon ! Stac^e waiting ! "

Away I run as hard as I can split ; in my
haste I catch my foot upon a step in the
passage ; stumbling forward, I fall at full
length, bursting Jack's unfortunate pumps in
every direction, bursting every button about
me, all over the place, bursting my knees out

of my beastly breeches ; the thrice-accursed
things are tumbling down about me ; I hold
them up with one hand, with the other I try
to pull up Jack's stockings, which are falling
in festoons about my unfortunate spindle
shanks, and with the cold sweat oozing from
my face, which by this time is like a badly-boiled
plum-pudding, my legs trembling beneath
me like a pair of stuffed eel-skins, I
stagger to my place.

I defy anyone to imagine a more woeful
object than the unfortunate, half-dressed,
wholly dazed, and utterly demoralized creature
who now figures as the intimate friend of the
elegant and accomplished Charles Surface.

When the scene drawls off discovering the
graceless scapegrace and his boon companions,
there is an expression of delight,
and indeed It Is a pleasant picture which meets
the eye, if I had only been in a mood to
enjoy it.

Upwards of a dozen young fellows, attired

in the becoming costume of the period, overflowing
with the exuberance of animal spirits,
keep the table in a roar.

The central table groans beneath the
weight of fruit and flowers and the choicest
wines ; the walls are covered with '^ the
family of the Surfaces from the time of the
Conquest" (for Fairfax is the author of the
daring innovation of playing the drinking
scene and picture scene together — an arrangement
subsequently followed by various
London and American managers, and described
by those eminent authorities as being
of their own original invention).

Amidst this flow of gaiety and brilliancy I
feel like death at the feast, and my most fervent
aspiration is that the stage will open
beneath my feet and precipitate me into the
depths below.

The wonderful ebullience of Fairfax, the
peals of laughter which greet his every utterance,
surprise and discomfit me.

In my fevered fancy I think that the
laughter is directed at me. I stumble and
stutter through my two or three first speeches,
sticking at every word ; then comes my song,,
and here even worse luck befalls me, for I
start in a false key, come to grief in the very
first verse, break down ignominiously, turn
tail and bolt off the stage amidst a yell of
derision.

I learn afterwards that Fairfax turns the
situation adroitly by exclaiming, '' Poor Careless
! I fear he has taken one of these fellows "
(pointing to a fiunky) '^ for a bailiff. Never
mind, I'll give you the song myself; " and he
rattles it off with a life and go which carry
everything before them. Young Howard,,
who plays Sir Benjamin Backbite, speaks the
lines of Careless, and the play proceeds without
my absence being further noticed.

Overwhelmed with shame and mortification
I rush to the dressing-room, tear off my traps,
anxious only to escape before the actors leave

the stage, determined never to show my face
in the hateful place again.

As I am rushing out I encounter my angel,
who is playing Lady Teazle. She's more
beautiful than ever, but how stately she looks,

how proud, how unsympathetic !

Notwithstanding my silent adoration for
this glorious creature, I had never spoken to
her in my life until that morning, when Fairfax
introduced me. I could scarcely get a word
out, still it was something to feel, to know
that I was perhaps about to be brought daily
in contact with her. I had given way to all
sorts of foolish dreams and ambitious aspirations,
and now it has come to this ! Henceforth
she will only regard me as the ridiculous
amateur who had made an ass of himself.
It is hard to bear !

As I pass by I lift my hat ; I don't know
whether she returns the salutation or not ; I
reach the door when a soft, sweet voice says,
'^Mr. Penarvon!"

I turn and look. Can this be the proud,
unsympathetic Miss Trevor? She extends
her hand ; I come forward and bend over it ;
she continues —

'' I am so sorry."

At the words I break down utterly, '^ Thank
you ! Good-bye ! God bless you, Miss Trevor
! " is all I can get out.

*' Good-bye!" she echoed, in alarm. 'what
do you mean ? "

"I mean," I replied, "that after this
mortification and disgrace I dare not look
any of these people in the face again. Tomorrow,
by the first train, I leave Rosemount
for ever."

'' You cannot be serious ! " she exclaimed.
*' What has happened to you to-night happens
to us all at some time or other."

At this moment Fairfax, accompanied by
Charles Surface's servants, who carried the
remains of the dessert, the flowers, and a
bottle of champagne, approached the ladies'

dressing-room and requested them to do him
the honour of taking wine with him — a
ceremony never omitted by the gallant Frank
-and, indeed, one that formed part and
parcel of the performance of '' The School
for Scandal " during all his regime,

Oh ! papa," says my lady Teazle, " Mr.
Penarvon is so distressed about this unfortunate
occurrence that he says he means
to go away and leave us all at a moment's
notice."

'' Don't talk nonsense, my dear boy,"
rejoins Fairfax. '^ Don't talk nonsense.
Any man who is worth his salt, anyone who
has the highly-wrought nervous temperament
which is absolutely essential to an actor, must
be knocked over some time or other.

Show me an actor who is not subject to
stage-fright, and I'll show you an ass !

Nay, more, show me a man who is
incapable of stage-fright, and I'll show you
an unsympathetic, unimaginative blockhead

who is incapable of ever becoming an
actor !

^' I made a much more miserable breakdown
than you have done, the second night I
ever tried to act. It was at Worcester — the
High Sheriff's bespeak. I was playing a
soldier (Howe's part in 'the Sheriff of the
County "), who has only a dozen lines or so
to speak. I ' got myself up regardless ' ina
splendid military uniform — strapped up to
within an inch of my life — ramrod up my
back, busbie on my head, black leathern stock
tightened round my neck, till I thought my
head would burst and fly off.

*' Down I walked to the footlights. As
soon as I caught sight of the audience glaring
at me deuce a word could I get out, good,
bad, or indifferent. I merely stood still in the
attitude of ' attention ' and gasped, and I
think I should have stood there gasping
until now if the prompter hadn't called out

Tery audibly, ' Now then, stupid ! are you
going to stay there all night ? ' Then I
found my tongue, and replied, ' No ! I'm
coming off to punch your head,' and I did
it, too !

*' The operation was a sort of safety valve,
but it was an expensive luxury, for it not only
cost me my uniform, which burst to ribbons,
but it also cost me my week's salary — (I was
fined that amount !) — besides which I got
notice to quit, and I should have been
dismissed the company in disgrace if it
had not been for the prompter, who, though
a little crusty, was the best fellow in the
world. He not only forgave me the licking,
but he also interceded with old Bennett, the
manager, to permit me to remain, and I
stayed in the circuit for three years, till he
and I (not the manager, but the prompter)
became sworn friends and brothers.

'' If you doubt me, ask Tony Aston, for he
was the prompter."

At this moment the call-boy sings out,
^' Lady Teazle called for the act."

Mind, you are to listen to papa, and to
promise not to do anything rashly."

'^ Leave him to me, child, and go you
away, or the stage will be waiting."

'' Let the stage wait ; I won't go till Mr.
Penarvon promises."

''Ah, Miss Trevor!" I exclaim, "it Is
easy to promise to do anything you ask me."

That is understood then," repHes my
angel, smiling on me like sunshine as she
goes away.

Then Fairfax takes me to his dressing-room,
soothes me with a glass or two of wine,
draws me out and gets me to talk.

On one point I am quite decided ; I will
never put foot on the stage again as an actor
no — never !

It is in vain that he tries to talk me out of
my determination ; I tell him I would rather
stand again unarmed and defenceless before

a battalion of Arabs led by the Mahdi himself
than I would encounter for a second time the
awful ordeal of this more awful night.

Finding that I am fixed as fate on the
subject, he replies —

Perhaps after all you are right, my boy ;
anyhow, take my advice, give yourself a
fortnight's holiday at Scarboro' ; the sea
breezes will blow the cobwebs out of your
brains ; by the time you come back here
you'll be a new man and this affair will be
forgotten."

Next morning I call at the Theatre House
with Jack to make my adieux, and actually
Fairfax and Miss Trevor accompany us to
the station.

As the carriage rolls away she smiles upon
me.

Who is cold and unsympathetic now?

** The White Ladyee " had not brought me
such bad luck after all !

VOL. I. N

THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.

I once did hold it, as our stations do,
A baseness to write fair, and labour'd much
How to forget that learning ; but, sir, now
It did me yeoman's service."

SCARBORO' is the queen of the northern
watering places, and a deHghtfuI spot I
admit, but that fortnight was the longest I
ever passed in my life.

At last one blessed red-letter day, to be remembered
" to the crack of doom," I had a
letter from Fairfax telling me that his private
secretary had an offer to go to town, that the

berth was open to me, if I thought it worthy
of my acceptance.

Without an hour's delay I took the first
train to Rosemount, and the very morning
after my arrival was installed in my office.

Before he left for town old Gilbert, the
departing secretary, initiated me as far as he
could into my duties, and handed me over the
keys of the check-boxes, the salary list, and
the bank pass-book.

The position was one of great trust and
confidence.

I had to take charge of the receipts overnight,
to compare the tickets with the receipts,
and pay them into the bank in the
morning. I had also to write all business
letters, superintend the giving out of playbills,
see to the advertisements, and to hold
the treasury every Saturday for the company
and every Tuesday for the tradesmen.*

Despite an occasional blunder or two, I had

the satisfaction of knowing that my services
were appreciated by my employer, who at
first seemed disposed to place '' the pale
spectrum of the salt " between us. His
reserve, however, gave way to confidence ashe
perceived my industry and attention, and
at length he came to regard me more as a
friend than a servant.

Miss Trevor, too, who treated me at first
with a little hauteur, when she found me
patient, diligent, and presuming, began to
thaw ; then my natural taciturnity gave way,
and I became more communicative, and endeavoured
to make myself agreeable.

Although Fairfax had a wide circle of
acquaintance, he had very few intimate
friends. Three or four people were, however,
free of the house, and they came whenever
they liked and almost at all times.

There was Fred Bronson, the rector of the
parish, 'who was a great authority on dogs and
horses — never missed a meet, a St. Leger, ora

Derby Day — was a capital man across
country, and rode to hounds much better than
he read the service. He had a splendid voice
for a View hallo, but as for his sermons they
were vox et praeterea nihil.

There was his wife, a bustling little busybody,
who, in consequence of having a craze
for blue china and mediaeval brasses, never
could find time to keep Fred's buttons in
order.

Then there was Canon Black, the Catholic
priest, our next-door neighbour, as jolly an
old boy as ever cracked a bottle or played
dummy.

There was John Ralphstone, editor of
the Conservative paper, who had been a barrister
(it was rumoured that he had held a
brief once), and who was the image of Tom
Pinch.

Sometimes Mrs. Ralphstone came, although
John preferred to leave her at Ralphstone
Villa to look after the numerous and continually

increasing olive branches, while he
made a fourth at whist at the Theatre
House.

I was occasionally invited to join these impromptu
parties, and very pleasant affairs
they were.

Having accommodating views on theological
subjects, and going turn and turnabout
every other Sunday from one church to
the other, I got on capitally with the priests
of both denominations, being not infrequently
invited to dine after the service with
one or other.

When I dined with the Canon and his boys
{i.e,, curates) I was always called upon (tell
it not in Gath !) to take a hand at whist on
Sunday afternoon.

Jack and I often used to turn in at the
Bronsons', after the play, to smoke a pipe and
drink a glass of beer, or gin and water, while
Fred presided over the festive board (in the absence

of Mrs. Fred), inhaling the nicotian
weed from a huge churchwarden, and telling
us racy stories about old times at Eton and
Oxford.

Sometimes we used to change the venue
by dropping in to supper at Ralphstone Villa
always sure of a hearty welcome, for Jack
was a great favourite of Mrs. Ralphstone's,
who scarcely ever missed a night at the play.

Our clerical friends were also very fond of
the theatre, but dared not be seen there for
fear of " Mrs. Grundy," although once, when
Fairfax gave a ball and supper on the stage,
they came and openly joined in the festivities,
and flirted in the most audacious manner
with our womankind, actually putting our
noses out of joint altogether, always excepting
Jack — dear old fellow ! No one ever
could put his nose out of joint with the
girls.

While the Haymarket people were fulfilling

an engagement at Rosemount we went over
to act in Barford for a few nights.

As there was no theatre there, we had to
take over our scenery and fit it up in St.
James's Hall, a large and magnificent
building.

To our astonishment and delight, the
Canon and his '' boys," Bronson and his
curate, turned up, in the most ostentatious
manner, in the front seats on our opening
night, and actually did not miss a single
performance. To be sure, Barford was
twelve miles from Rosemount, but it was
not the distance that made the difference ; it
was because we were not acting in 'that
wicked theatre " — a nice distinction, truly !

During the run of a new play, written by
one of our most distinguished authors (a play,
I may remark, we produced for the first time
at Rosemount), the hero was a young parson,
an Oxford man, supposed to hail from Maudlin

(Bronson's College) ^ and he was naturally
anxious to see how one of his own cloth
would figure on the stage. Fairfax, therefore,
arranged for Fred to enter by the stage
door, so as to reach the private box without
being seen by the multitude. There, ensconced
behind the drapery and out of sight
of the audience, he sat, enjoying himself like
a truant schoolboy out for a holiday.

To our astonishment, however, he called
to lunch at the Theatre House next day in a
state of great perturbation, alleging that
early that morning, just as he was about
to sit down to breakfast, he had received a
visit from three women — three loud-talking,
impudent, but influential women, district visitors
— who opened fire upon him, stating that
they had been credibly informed by a pious
apple-woman who kept a fruit-stall near the
stage door, and who lived by disposing of her
wares to the godless play-folk, that he had
been seen on the previous night "entering

the bottomless pit of abomination in company
with that son of Behalf, Fairfax."

Imagine the poor fellow submitting to this
to avoid scandal !

He took it out, however, whenever he got
a chance, for when away from home he never
missed a single night at the play.

I had to call daily to leave my returns of
the receipts. Sometimes Fairfax appeared
out of sorts ; then he would invite me to stay
and smoke a cigar. On these occasions he
would turn the conversation to my military
experiences, which apparently interested both
him and Clara.

I used to try to draw him out about his
own reminiscences, which to me were a
source of never-failing pleasure. At first he
was somewhat reticent, but both Clara and I
loved to listen, and when he was once set
going he would talk by the hour and '' act
his young encounters o'er again."

What an ass 1 must have been not to have
committed his strange adventures to paper
just as he told them. Talk about romances 1
why his life was romance upon romance;
in fact, a perfect circulating library of them.

Then Clara ! Ah ! it was enough for me
to be near her, to breathe the same air with
her. But, oh ! to sit at the same table, to
hear her speak — these were foretastes of
Elysium !

In her best mood she was bright as sunshine,
and her conversation was as sprightly
and entertaining as her manner was ingenuous
and engaging.

Sometimes after dinner, during our discussions
on the politics or literature of the day,
she would take advantage of a lull, to run over
to the piano, and play and sing like a nightingale.


She had one rare and remarkable gift — a
passion for adapting poetry to music. If any
particular poem took her fancy, she would

commit it to memor', and recite it as the
inspiration took her, improvising a running
tremolo accompaniment on the piano. The
effect was indescribably beautiful and touching
; indeed, no other combination of melodious
sounds that I have heard has ever
affected me so profoundly. Sometimes she
would finish with a march or a battle piece
which would culminate in a Babel of warlike
sounds ; then she would leave the room with
a joyous laugh.

Sometimes she would cease in a minor key,
couched in a tone so low ^' that nothing lived
'twixt it and silence." Then she would remain
for a few moments silent and motionless,
and I could hear nothing but the beating of
my own heart as she stole gently from the
room.

That was the usual signal for my departure,
when I too stole away, leaving Fairfax
to his siesta.

In the midst of our most unrestrained

conversation I noted that if I merely named
Herbert or Caroline a coldness would ensue,
then a silence ; so after a time I avoided all
mention of them. At first I attributed Clara's
strange demeanour to merely professional
jealousy ; but my eyes were soon opened.

Though Herbert had never spoken one
word of love to either of these charming
creatures, both loved him. Each divined the
other's secret, and each was mortally jealous
of the other.

He must have been blind as a mole, or else
intensely preoccupied with his studies, not to
have perceived the state of affairs. I think
perhaps the latter, for at this period he was
engaged morning, noon, and night in probing
the heart of the mighty mysteries of Hamlet,
Othello, Macbeth, and Lear.

Once, presuming on our long intimacy, I
said to him —

'' You seem fancy-free, Jack ; do you never
fall in love nowadays, old man ?"

He replied with assumed gravity —
'' Bob, a man whose heart is filled with a
sublime ambition has no time to fall in love."

My heart was not filled with a sublime
ambition, but, alas ! it was consumed by a
hopeless love which I could confide to no one.
As for the object of my adoration, she did not
even dream of the engrossing passion which
had now become part of my existence.

Lookers-on see the best of the game, and
I observed, that if Herbert said a kind word,
or offered the simplest courtesy to one of
these young ladies, the other fiercely, though
silently, resented it.

Did he act a part with Caroline which infringed
in the slightest degree on Clara's
abundant repertoire, her anger was with difficulty
restrained.

Did he act a part with Clara in which it was
essential to appear ardent or amorous, it was
a cruel wound to Caroline.

If he rehearsed a scene twice over with the
one, it needed all the other's good breeding,
to enable her to restrain her impatience
within reasonable bounds.

Yet all these fluctuations of feeling, all
these varying shades of emotion, were represented
bv nothing more than a look, a shrug
of the shoulders, or a gesture of impatience.
To me, indeed, they were as transparent as
glass, as apparent as the sun at noontide ;
but then I loved her ; nay, more, I loved
them all, and my sympathetic regard for them
enhanced the poignancy of my own sufferings.

The people by whom we were surrounded,
however, except Fairfax (who, like myself,
must have divined the truth), had not the
faintest idea of the inception of the tragedy
which was ripening to maturity before their
eyes.

My lips where sealed, yet, in my own small
way, I laboured incessantly to prevent misunderstanding,
or scandal.

Herbert remained chivalrously courteous to
both ladies.

Caroline was always equable, though sometimes
coldly courteous ; Clara, as the fit
would take her, was like April : to-day, alternate
cloud and sunshine ; tomorrow, cold
and cutting as the winds of March.

One day when she was April and March
combined, I happened to be in the way ;
Herbert made a little '' moue " at me, and
whispered — '' Varia et mutable semper
F(E7nina I eh, Bob ? " As a general rule,
however, he bore these caprices of temper
with imperturbable good humour.

So I watched and waited ; hopeless for myself,
yet not altogether without hope that I
might be enabled to shield those I loved
from consequences which I feared to contemplate.


AS YOU LIKE IT.

But heavenly Rosalind ! "

During the first year of my engagement the
novelty of my position and the constant
change of scene involved by our periodical
visits to the various towns of the circuit, occupied
my time, and occasionally diverted my
mind from my own troubles. At length we
returned to Rosemount for the ensuing
season.

At this period Mr. James Clerehead, the
erratic and enterprising manager of the Royal

VOL. I. O

Pandemonium Palace, the Megatherium, the
Frivolity, 8z;c., was beating up for recruits.

With characteristic modesty he had intimated
to Fairfax that he was coming down to
take stock of the company to see if there was
anyone worthy of being picked up for his
ensuing campaign in town.

In due course this gentleman turned up at
the Theatre Royal, Rosemount, and it was
my duty to escort him to a front seat which
had been reserved for him in the centre boxes.
A remarkable-looking person this ! Slender,
above the average height, a handsome head,
sharp, aquiline nose, black hair, black moustache,
dark eyebrows, piercing eyes, a pleasant
cat-like smile, which seemed as if it
might be perpetual, though I have seen it
change into a tiger like fierceness ; a drawling
but not disagreeable voice, and a habit of
saying the most unpleasant things in the
pleasantness manner possible.

The performance consisted of 'ras You
Like it" and '' Don Caesar de Bazar."

The great impression glanced at the programme,
and muttered in the most insouciant
manner, as if he were evoking an indolent

blessing — " The Bard again ! the Bard !

These country actors have got their blessed
Bard on the brain ! "

Then turning to me he said, with languid
insolence, '' I say, sir, look here ; I've been
travelling five mortal hours, and have only
just arrived ; put me in a private box, and if
I fall asleep come and shake me up when the
farce begins."

Certainly this gentleman was not complimentary
to our corps dramatique, but he was
Fairfax's guest, and my orders were to offer
him every attention. I took him, therefore,
to the chief's own box, and left him there to
sleep if he pleased, firmly resolved, however,
that unless he snored loudly enough to interrupt

the performance he might sleep till the
next morning.

I had never seen "As You Like It' neither
had Caroline. She sat next to me, and we
both lost ourselves in the Forest of Arden
and the fortunes of the hero and heroine, who
played into each other's hands with a fervour
and an artistic grace enchanting to behold —
at least, to me — although I fear Caroline did
not contemplate the process with so much
equanimity.

I suppose I ought to have been jealous, but
I knew Jack didn't love Clara, while Caroline
was not altogether so sure of that.

Rosalind's love at first sight for Orlando,
their after meeting in the forest, the ebullience
of innocent wantonness and animal spirits in
which she absolutely revelled during the mock
love-making, the ecstasy of passion which
lighted her eyes, illumined her features, and

appeared to thrill through her very veins at
the coming and going of her young paladin,
the fainting when Oliver recounts his brother's
peril, and the delightful manner in which she
spoke the epilogue, are all as fresh in my
mind now as when I first saw and heard them.

I shall never forget her entrance as Ganymede.


She was indeed 'jove's own page."

Her gorgeous and glowing beauty, her
superb and symmetrically formed limbs, her
exquisitely undulating movements, the indolent
grace with which she lounged about the
forest, all combined to form a most perfect
incarnation of statuesque grace and feminine
loveliness.

I believe Herbert made an admirable
Orlando, but I confess I had eyes for no
one but "the fair, the chaste, the inexpressive
she."

Whether Clerehead slept during the early

portions of the play I know not, but I do know
he was wide awake enough when Clara came
on in the boy's dress.

He sat eagerly forward, craning his long
neck out of the box, and never took his eyes
off her.

While she was speaking the epilogue I remained
entranced, and Caroline sat quivering
and moaning like a wounded doe.

As for him, the fellow looked for all the
world as if he would have leaped upon the
stage, and in the '' sight of all Israel '^ have
claimed the guerdon Rosalind proffered to
*' so many as had beards that pleased her,"
though apparently he thought better of it, for
that time at any rate.

When the curtain fell Caroline gave a little
shudder, and unconsciously murmured to herself,
though loud enough for me to hear—

'' He must love her ! Who could help
loving her, so happy, so beautiful ? While
I ~"

Then the band struck up, and I heard no
more.

'' As when a well-graced actor leaves the
stage," so did '' Don Caesar de Bazar " appear
to me a tedious, irrelevant, and impertinent
burlesque ; but I was in the minority, for
the audience accepted the play, and Bell-house,
who played the hero not only with
fervour, but enthusiasm.

Evidently Clerehead was favourably impressed
also, for he engaged Bellhouse there
and then at a very handsome salary, and a
fortnight afterwards he left us to become
jeime premier at the Frivolity.

That night Herbert and I were invited to
meet the Metropolitan manager at supper at
the Theatre House.

The invitation was made at his special
request, in order that he might be introduced
to Jack. The truth was, the astute impresario

had been, to use his own elegant phraseology,
^' struck all of a heap " by both Clara and
Herbert, and wanted to secure them both for
the Frivolity.

Clara was at her best and brightest.

The great triumph she had achieved as
Rosalind, Herbert's association with it, the
sympathetic ardour with which he had acted
up to her, the perfect semblance of reality
with which he had invested the amorous
utterances of the love-sick Orlando, combined
with a certain speechless but persuasive
gallantry which exhaled from him unconsciously,
and which was part of the man's
"loving, noble nature," set her thinking.
*' Could she have been mistaken about Caroline
? Could he, after all — ? " Then she
thought —

'' Sufficient for the day is the evil (or
happiness) thereof. Let me eat, drink, and
be merry ; tomorrow I may die ! "

So she laid herself out to conquer, and
when she was In that mood no woman could
be so agreeable, so seductive, so dangerous,
or so irresistible.

I had never seen her so charming before.
Clerehead told me long after that he had
never seen anyone so charming in his life.

Fairfax was delighted to see her so like
her old self. I, alone, was the death's head
at the feast.

It seemed very hard to know that the other
girl was breaking her heart for Jack, that he
loved neither of them, and that my latest
glimpse of hope was fleeting away from before
my eyes.

If he loved her, and if she could be happy,
I could have borne it with patience, if not
with equanimity ; for, after all, what was I to
stand between them and happiness ?

In business Clerehead was a man of few
words, and after supper he came straight to
the point.

Without ceremony he offered Clara and
Herbert their own terms, to commence as
soon as Fairfax could spare them.

Now the truth was that the Frivolity had an
evil odour in the 'chief's" nostrils, and on
no account would he permit his darling to be
mixed up either with the theatre or the associations
which surrounded it. So he gave a
point blank negative ; and Herbert, thanking
Clerehead very much, followed suit.

Then we bade " Good-night " to all, and
wended our way homeward.

THE LEGACY.

Next morning Fairfax turned out in pink
with Clara ; and a little baronet (jocularly
known as the ''Gipsey"), who had been a
comrade of ours in the Soudan, gave Jack a
mount, so he rode to hounds with them, and
a very distinguished trio they made.

I fear that Caroline was more impressed
than gratified by the little cavalcade as she
saw them ride by Precentor's Court, laughing
and talking, evidently in the highest spirits ;
while for my own part I must confess their
laughter found no echo in my heart.

After I had. counted my checks and written
my letters I read the following remarkable
advertisement in the Times : —

'' If John Herbert, Esq., late Captain in
the — th Lancers, will immediately communicate
with Messrs. Wharton and Blogson, solicitors,
29^, Lincoln's Inn Fields, he will hear
of something greatly to his advantage."

Without waiting for Herbert's return I telegraphed
in his name, to this effect :

'' Shall be glad to hear from you in re
advertisement in to-day's Times ^

An hour later I received a reply worded
thus : —

'^ A legacy of ;;^ 10,000 awaits you here.
Kindly come to town immediately, or place
us in communication with your solicitors."

When Herbert returned from the hunting
field I showed him the advertisement and the
telegram.

He was for rushing off to Fairfax at once
to obtain permission to get away that very
night, but I dissuaded him, alleging that it
might be a hoax, or some artifice of Clerks
(who had the reputation of being a
practical joker) to get him up to town in the
hope of inducing him to accept the proposed
engagement at the Frivolity. Besides, it was
impossible for him to be out of the bill for the
ensuing week. The programme was published,
and I knew that no amount of persuasion
could induce Fairfax to alter it. I wrote,
therefore, by that night's post to my father's
solicitor, desiring him to communicate with
Messrs. Wharton and Blogson, and to acquaint
us with the result by wire.

Next day Mr. Stanton telegraphed me : —

'* Have seen Wharton and Blogson. Legacy
quite bond fide. Your friend had better come
up to town as soon as possible."

Herbert obtained a week's leave of absence

upon important family business, and on Sunday
afternoon he went to London.

Tuesday morning brought me the following
letter :

'' Tavistock Hotel,

'' Monday.

'' My Dear Bob,

'^ It's all true — there's no mistake about
it. Your friend Stanton took me this morning
to Wharton and Blogson's, where I saw a
mummified old duffer who told me that
ten thousand pounds had actually been bequeathed
to me by a client of his, and who do
you think it turns out to be ? Why, Harry
Armitage's father ! The poor old boy died
three months ago.

*' Beyond this, I could obtain no information
from the ancient idiot.

*' Stanton seemed to understand him, however,
so I've left the matter in their hands.

'' The money is to be transferred to my

account at Swan's bank, with as little delay
as possible, and tomorrow I am to sign
certain documents. Meanwhile, Stanton has
opened an account for me at Glen's, and I've
a cheque-book, if you please. Only think —
a cheque-book once more !

'' I'm now off to dine with Clerehead, and
to-night we are going to see the slender
Sarah, with the voice of gold, in ' Herman,'
and Clerehead has promised to introduce me
after the play. Better keep all this to yourself
till I come back. Meanwhile, ' to the
last syllable of recorded time,'

'' Believe me always your own old

"Jack."

THE PASSING OF FAIRFAX.

But now, farewell ! I am going a long way,
Where falls not hail, or rain, or any snow,
Nor ever wind blows loudly."

I got Jack's letter, as I have said, on Tuesday,
and on Wednesday — alas !

Let me think where and how to begin.

It was the first meet of the season with the
Marquis of H 's hounds.

Now, Fairfax's mare, having cast a shoe
the previous night, was not " fit," so he asked
*' The Gipsey " to give him a mount.

Unfortunately, our little friend had in his
stud a vicious beast, called '' The Roarer."
The baronet rather liked to take it out of this
brute, and whenever he got his knees into her
ribs, she knew she had found her master.

I believe had Sir George got astride, the
eternal devil, his Satanic Majesty, with all his
host to aid him, couldn't have shaken him off.
But then '' The Gipsey " barely turned nine
stone, and was under thirty years of age,
besides which he was the best horseman in
the county. Now, Fairfax turned twelve stone
ten, and was over fifty.

As ill-luck would have it, this infernal brute,
full of corn and devilry, was selected by Sir
Georges loafing scoundrel of a groom for
Fairfax's mount.

I was in attendance to take my instructions,
as usual, for the day.

Generally '' the chief " was bright and
VOL. I. P

jovial ; on this occasion I found him preoccupied
and depressed. After we had finished
our business, I ventured to observe —
'^ You seem rather unwell to-day, sir."
'' Oh ! I'm well enough in health, but I'm a
little depressed in spirits, and I — " He
started up and walked across the room once
or twice ; then facing me he inquired abruptly
—

'' Do you believe in ghosts, Bob?"
'' I hope in them," I replied ; '^ but I'm not
quite sure of my belief in anything ; I wish I
were !

'' Once, ever so long ago, I thought I saw
my mother, but my father persuaded me that
it was an hallucination. My poor mother had
promised if she ever could come back, that
she would be sure to come to him, and as he
had never seen her, he was convinced I had
been dreaming. But why do you ask me,
sir?"

Because — because I believe in indigestion

and nightmare — but I don't believe in ghosts,
and yet —

''Of course, you've heard all the rubbish
about the Ghost Room and the White
Ladyee?"

'' I have."

'' The very first night I slept there, a dear,
dead friend appeared to me. I certainly
thought I was awake, but what is it Hobbes
says ? ' To say one hath seen a vision or
heard a voice is to say he hath dreamed between
sleeping and waking.' So I suppose I
was dreaming.

That was five years ago.

'' This morning I dreamt that she came
again to the foot of my bed. Looking upon
me very sadly, she murmured in the soft,
sweet voice I remember so well —

'' ' Don't go out to-day, Frank — don't go
out.'

'' I heard her as clearly as I hear myself
now. In the effort to reply, I awoke, and

sprang out of bed. It was broad daylight,
but I tell you, Penarvon, for one moment I
saw her as clearly as I see you now. Yes,
there she stood, with her fair hair and her dark
eyes, her white dress and black ribbons. As
I approached, she changed, as if by magic
into the figure of a nun, with a child in her
arms. For a moment, I stood awe-stricken,
then I advanced, and she it — what shall I
call it ? — faded into air ! Now, what do you
think of that, Bob ? ''

'* I think you are a little out of sorts. We
were up rather late last night. Perhaps a
touch of dyspepsia. If I were you I'd stay at
home this morning. Let me send the horseback
to Sir George. I'm sure you are not fit
to go out."

'' Not a whit," he replied, quoting Hamlet
gaily and glibly. '' ' We defy augury — there's
a special providence in the fall of a sparrow.
If it be now, 'tis not to come ; if it be not to
come, it will be now ; if it be not now, yet it

will come ; the readiness is all.' " And so, with
his usual buoyancy, he went forth.

Before he mounted, Clara said, ^' Papa, I
don't Hke the looks of that mare."

'' Nor I either," said I. 'just look at her
ears ; do let me send her back."

Whether through thoughtlessness, indolence,
or mischief, the groom replied, ^' She's
as right as a trivet, sir ; Sir George rode her to
hounds three days ago, and she went Hke a
lamb."

Fairfax looked as if he himself didn't much
like the appearance of the beast, but I suppose,
after our conversation, he didn't care to
show the white feather; anyhow he mounted,
and away they went, apparently elate and
confident, and a charming picture they made
as they rode down the High Street.

I can see them now. She in her flowing
habit, and he in his white hat, pink coat, a
flower in his button-hole, well-cut boots and
continuations.

I am not superstitious, but a presentiment
of some impending calamity overshadowed
me as they passed out of sight.



An hour later, as I returned from the Bank,
I saw a group of stragglers coming towards
the Theatre House, looking backwards at a
waggon which was followed by an enormous
crowd.

When the cart halted at the door, I looked
beneath the tilt, and there I saw poor Fairfax
extended at full length, his hunting dress all
retained and bedraggled with mire, his face
wan and motionless, his eyes closed, his head
resting on Her lap.

She sat behind him, her eyes fixed, her
features ghastly pale, her beautiful hair all
dishevelled and streaming over her.

The company being engaged with the rehearsal,
were fortunately all on the spot.
They came crowding down to assist in carrying
the *' chief" into the house.

Forgetful of everything but Clara's trouble,
Caroline sprang forward to assist her, but she
shrank from her, and clung almost by instinct
to me.

The 'boys" carried our poor friend to
the Ghost Room, where we undressed him and
got him into bed before the doctor arrived.

During this time Clara had suffered Mrs.
Brown to conduct her to her own room, where,
taking off her riding habit, she slipped over
her a loose dressing-gown. Then she came
rapidly down, and dashing open the door,
stood among us.

'' Well ? " she said to the doctor.

'' Patience! my dear young lady, patience !"

Preach patience to the winds," she exclaimed
; 'but tell vie the truth — is it life or
death ? "

The doctor replied, "While there is life
there is hope."

'' Yes," she replied, bitterly, '' much hope !
I see it in your eyes. How long will he last ?

Is it to be to-day, or tomorrow, or next week?
For God's sake, say when ! "

The doctor hesitated before he answered.

'' Since you insist upon knowing the truth,
Miss Trevor, it may be a day, a week, or an
hour. Meanwhile let us be thankful that he
suffers no pain."

'' Thank God for that ! There is nothing
more to be done, then ? "

'' Nothing."

'' Thank you," she replied ; '^ and now
leave me, if you please, all except Mr. Pearson."


I whispered the doctor to telegraph Herbert
to come immediately, and then I sat with her
through the long dreary night.

By degrees I learnt the truth from her disjointed
exclamations.

They had not got clear of the city, and were
descending a street paved with large granite
stones — stones that were slippery and greasy.

Just at the very moment when both horses
were struggling to keep their feet, Fairfax
drew his white kerchief from his breast pocket,
and as he flapped it out, a large plate-glass
window opposite unfortunately reflected it.
The Roarer " caught sight of the reflection,
shied, took the bit in her mouth, bolted to the
right and over the bridge, as if a pack of
wolves were at her heels.

Off she went, at a wild, mad gallop, and
was out of sight in less than no time.

When she overtook them, half an hour
later, she found him lying across the highway,
speechless, senseless, his face quite
rigid, his teeth clenched, the reins still in
his hand, and 'the Roarer" quietly browsing
by his side.

After she had told me this, except for the
tolling of the minster bell, which marked the
progress of the hours, the silence was broken

by nothing but the quiet breathing of the dying
man. She had ceased to sob or moan, and
merely sat beside him, her eyes fixed on his
impassive face, pressing his hand in hers, and
nursing it on her bosom.

Hour succeeded hour, until at length the
great bell of the minster struck four — presently
the chimes told us it was half-past the
hour. The train from London was overdue !

Up to this moment Fairfax had not uttered
a single word, but now, through the silence,
his voice rose loud and clear —

^' He's coming !" he cried. '' Hush ! hush !
I hear his footsteps ! ''

I had not heard a sound to break the stillness
of the dawning day, nor had she ; but
even as the words were uttered, Herbert, pale
and breathless, stood upon the threshold.

The eyes which had been closed for hours
now opened wide. As Herbert threw his arms
around him he said, '' Jack ! dear old

Jack ! I always loved you from the first, and
I couldn't die till I had seen you''

Turning to Clara, he continued, ^' My
darling, kiss me ! Yet again ! When I meet
your mother in Heaven I can tell her I have
done my duty to her child."

Then he fell back upon his pillow, and was
silent for a time.

Presently they heard him murmuring to
himselfe-in a dreamy far-off way, '' It was
ever so long ago — we were boy and girl
together — her hair was fair as morning, her
eyes were dark as night — a white frock and
black ribbons — "

He closed his eyes, and his breath came
and went so regularly that it seemed to us as
though he were sleeping.

Another hour ! Another still !
The minster bell struck six ; the sound
appeared to have awakened him. Looking

eagerly forward, and gazing into space, as if
apostrophizing someone or something we
could not see, he murmured — '^ Pm coming,
darling, I'm coming."

And so he passed away, the old sweet
smile upon his lips, while the bright eyes
looked forth into the daylight where darkness
never comes.

AT REST.

'* Earth to earth may return, the material to matter ;
But high from the grave soars the spirit above :
His ashes the winds of the tempest may scatter,
The Life of Eternity lives in his Love''

Schiller.

On the morning of the funeral, when Herbert,
the Canon, and I went to take leave of our
poor friend, we found Clara seated by the
coffin, her eyes fixed on him.

Not a wrinkle or a trace of care was left
upon that marble brow. A smile was on his
lips — how young and beautiful he looked.

When we sought to lead her forth, she rose

and kissed the dear dead face, as she made
moan —

'' Oh ! my dearest dear. My father and
my friend, must I lose you ? But it cannot
be for ever ! "

'' It is not for ever, child, be sure of that,"
replied the Canon. "'He is not dead, but
sleeper.' Come then, come ! " And so we
led her forth — looking upon him to the last.

It was a day of dole in the city ; the very
elements seemed to have gone into mourning.
The heavens were '' hung with black,"
and the rain fell in one incessant, drizzling
downpour.

All the public offices were closed, the flagon
the Castle hung half-mast high, the great
bell of the minster tolled during the progress
of the funeral cortege. The bells of all the
city churches were muffled, and rang out in
doleful answer. It was, indeed, a day of
lamentation.

The chief mourners were Herbert, the
Canon, Ralphstone, Sir George, Clough, the
banker, Walton, Fairfax's solicitor, and myself.


The men of the company, bearing a profusion
of wreaths and bouquets, prepared by
the loving hands of the women, came next.
Then came the Mayor and Corporation, the
Marquis of H , the clergy of various denominations,
besides which several of the
county families sent their carriages.

Many of the officers in garrison followed.

Despite the rain, a vast concourse swelled
the sad procession, which, by the time it
reached the cemetery, numbered many thousands.


Our poor friend was beloved of the people,
and it was quite touching to note the general
grief of old and young — especially the women.
Generations of both men and women had
risen up around him from childhood, and they
had grown to love him with their growth.

He had been conspicuous amongst them so
long, '' wearing the grand old name of
gentleman " without reproach or stain. He
was so kind, so charitable, so good to the
poor ; so generous, so lovable as a man ; so
accomplished as an actor ; then the glamour
of the stage had invested him with such a
halo of romance, that it was no wonder that to
their simple minds, he appeared the incarnation
of all that was noble, and gentle, and
gallant, and tender, and true ! They loved
him as one who belonged to themselves, as
one near and inexpressibly dear, and his loss
was so sudden and unexpected — his death so
terrible — that it enhanced the poignancy of
the general grief.

When we left the church the darkness was
almost that of night.

Notwithstanding that the rain fell heavier
than before every head was bared. Not a
sound could be heard except the continual
downpour.

At length we reached the grave.

Bronson commenced the remainder of the
ritual — I have said before he had a marvellous
voice — but, poor fellow ! he was unequal to
the task. As he uttered the words, '' Earth
to earth, ashes to ashes, dust to dust,"
at the sound of the dull thud of the earth
falling upon the coffin, he faltered, turned
pale as death, and broke down utterly.

Even at that very moment the rain ceased,
the rift was lifted, the clouds vanished as if
by magic, the sun burst forth bright and
glorious, and he resumed his task, intoning
trumpet-tongued the inspired promise of immortality.


As he ceased, the multitude bowed their
heads in solemn silence ; when, lo ! the Bow
of the Covenant arose and encircled the
horizon with its many-coloured glories as if
it were a sign sent from Heaven in answer to
our prayers.

VOL. I. Q

I cast upon the coffin a huge cluster of
forget-me-nots and violets from Clara ;
Herbert followed with a wreath of laurel
sent by Caroline ; then the hush broke, the
weeping crowd pressed round, and covered
the open grave with flowers ; and, with their
sobs and lamentations ringing in our ears, we
left our dear master to his last sleep.

END OF VOL. I.

o
u

'o
<v
a,
(/)

o
o

Jo


o

o
o

o a;

>

O
o

O

.5 o

bjo ^

o S '^ o (i

a.

u

boo



.2
o

o

U U

o a;
CO

^

fc)0

a

o -a
^ .S

^

E

-^ O

MEMOIRS OF MISS MELLON.

Afterwards Duchess of St. Albans.

BY

MRS. Cornwall BARRON-WILSON.

SECOND EDITION OF PRESENT ISSUE.

2 Vols., Demy 8vo, 25s.

The intrinsic interest of its heroine's character and career
absorbs you from the first page to the last. I can say, at least,
for myself that, though pressed greatly for time, I could not lay
down the biography till I had finished it." — Truth.

The life of the poor girl who sprang from the humblest
ranks of the Irish peasantry, became a famous actress, married
first a millionaire and then a duke, cannot fail to have attractions
for the romantic reader. ' — Daily News.

She leaped at one bound from earning a small weekly
salary to the command of vast wealth, and she married first a
great banker and then a duke." — St. James's Gazette.

The two handsome volumes under notice contain all the
details of stage life which will be for ever amusing reading, and,
in addition, their contents point to a moral well worth consideration.
We who have favourite actresses, and buy bouquets for them,
might as well employ the money • for one night only ' in presenting
them with the ' Memoirs of Harriot, Duchess of St. Albans.' "
—The Bat.

Although it is nearly fifty years since the first edition of
this work was printed, the matter it contains will be read with
avidity by the public of to-day, comprising as it does so much
that concerns the inner life of a woman who was one of the most
famous characters of her time." — Scottish News.

The book will be read, and read with interest. It is admirably
got up iu large and distinct type." — Malignant's Messenger.

Nursed amid grinding poverty she rose to the pinnacle of
affluence, yet she never forgot the friends of her youth — retaining
to the last those amiable qualities which endeared her to all with
whom she came in contact. The work is not only instructive, but
offers the most enjoyable reading." — Public Opinion.

REMINGTON & Co., Henrietta Street, Covent Garden.

A STORY OF THE MODERN STAGE

IN THREE VOLUMES

BY

JOHN COLEMAN

Author of " Curly: — An Actor's Story" " Memoirs of Samuel Phelps"
Reminiscences of Charles Reade " &c

And one was far apart, and one was near :
Ay, ay, O ay — the winds that bow the grass !
And one was water, and one star was fire,
And one will ever shine, and one will pass,
Ay, ay, O ay— the winds that move the mere ! "

Tennyson

VOL II

REMINGTON AND CO PUBLISHERS
HENRIETTA STREET COVENT GARDEN


[All Rights Reserved]

CHAPTER I.

THE NEW MANAGER.
The old order yielded to the new."

The day after the funeral Mr. Walton invited
Herbert, myself, and Swan, the banker, to
meet him at his office to hear the will read.

Our poor friend died without kith or kin.

The will was short and simple. After some
small legacies to his old friends and servants,
to the Infirmary, the School for the Blind,

VOL. II. B

and the General Theatrical Fund, all his
estate, real and personal, moneys in the bank
at Rosemount and Castletown, together with
his library, pictures, plate, linen, furniture,
and all right and interests in the leases of the
various theatres, were left absolutely to Clara.

There was a codicil to the will, in which he
expressed a desire that Herbert should
continue the management of the circuit,
paying her a royalty of ^*2oo a year for five
years, during which his leases had to run,
and taking the scenery and fixtures at a
valuation. These amounts were to be deducted
from the receipts of the various
theatres, on terms to be arranged by the
executors, but the payments were not to
commence until after the first twelve months
of Herbert's tenancy, so that, had he found
it desirable, he would have been immediately
placed in possession without payment of a
single farthing.

Swan and Walton were appointed joint

executors. After the will was read, Walton
said —

Now, Mr. Herbert, the rental of the
theatres is going on, and the business must
be settled at once. Come and see me tomorrow
at twelve o'clock, and say " yes " or

Jack and I went home and talked the matter
over, and the result was that the next day, to
the astonishment of the lawyer, Herbert
said —

In accordance with my poor friend's
wishes, I will take the theatres ; but, in view
of Miss Trevor's position, I should not like
her to depend upon the failure or success of
my speculations for payment. I will ask you,
therefore, to get the valuation of the scenery
and fixtures made out as soon as possible, and
I will pay you the amount of the valuation
and the goodwill at once. You can then
invest the money for Miss Trevor, and it can

immediately be put out at interest for her
advantage."

Walton gaped open-mouthed at this proposal,
but managed to gasp out —

Oh, yes, certainly ; perhaps you will place
me in communication with your solicitor ? "

By all means. Mr. Middleton will act
for me, so kindly prepare the requisite agreements
and send them to his office at once."

The arrangements were speedily completed.
The valuation came to ^1,000; the goodwill
to another ^*i,ooo.

After the legacies were paid there was
barely ^8,000 left, and Walton invested the
1 0,000 for Clara's benefit.

Herbert took all existing engagements on
his shoulders, and as we both thought it
desirable to close the theatre for a short
period after this sad event, he gave the company
a fortnight's holiday, paying their
salaries during the vacation.

He would have preferred closing altogether
at Rosemount, but I advised him to re-open
there ; for Clara was very ill indeed, and I
felt assured if we went away, leaving her
alone to her sad thoughts, without friends or
society, or the excitement of her professional
duties, her malady would take a serious, perhaps
a fatal turn ; and, as the doctor confirmed
my opinion, Herbert followed my
advice, and we arranged to re-open at Rose-mount.


During her illness Jack was unremitting in
his attention and kindness. Every day he
left the choicest flowers, the most delicious
fruits ; strange to say, however, she persistently
refused to see him.

Good Mrs. Brown loved Clara very dearly,
and cherished a deadly hatred for anyone who
stood in her darling's way. It was enough
for her that Caroline encroached upon Clara's

parts, and more than enough that the former
was becoming popular — too popular, in fact.
Then, being an observing woman, the stupid
old soul saw Clara's infatuation for Herbert,
and could not realize how any sane man could
look at Caroline while Clara was in existence.

To beguile the time for the invalid, she
vented her spleen on her rival — " What Mr.
Herbert could see in that designing hussy
that he should go ' arming ' her about, driving
in cabs, and such like, she couldn't understand,
not she, indeed ! "

The well-meaning old idiot was not aware
that every word she spoke planted a dagger
in Clara's heart.

Of course half she said was not true ; but
there was a certain element of truth in it, as
I believe there is in nearly every other species
of lie.

Her mischievous meddling, however, received
confirmation in an unexpected manner.

It so happened that one morning as Jack

left the Theatre House he met Caroline, who
had called with a bunch of spring violets
which she had gathered herself for Clara, and
which she left with her card.

When Mrs. Brown took up the violets, she
mentioned (not with the intention of making
mischief, but merely to make talk) that Mr.
Herbert and Caroline had left the house
together.

Clara sprang out of bed, rushed to the
window, saw them walking across the green
towards the Minster. That was " confirmation
strong." She tore the card to fragments,
and trampled the poor innocent, unoffending
flowers beneath her feet. The reaction did
her good ; and next day the doctor said she
was better.

As for Herbert's second peccadillo, he had
been to Castletown on business, and on his
return to Rosemount it was raining heavily,
so he took a cab home.

Passing the Theatre House, he saw Caroline
standing in the pit-passage, evidently driven
there by stress of weather. What could poor
Jack do but offer to give her a lift ?

Good Mother Brown" saw him assist
Caroline into his cab, and, of course, retailed
this incident with embellishments for Clara's
delectation.

Although these petty jealousies stung the
poor girl almost to madness, they occupied
her mind, and brought her back to the active
duties of life.

One morning, when I made my accustomed
call, to my astonishment Brown said —
Miss Clara would be glad to see you, Mr.
Penarvon."

She was very sad and pale, but she came
forward and shook hands with me warmly, as
she said — " I see there is one friend left me
still."

I replied — " You have many, Miss Trevor ;
there is Herbert — "

Don't let us speak of him, if you please,
Mr. Penarvon. Remember he is the manager,
and we are only servants now ; better realize
our true position at once."

Mr. Herbert will never look at the matter
from that point of view, I feel assured."

Never mind him. The doctor says if I
am ever to get well I must have change of
air, and exercise, and, indeed," she said,
springing to her feet impatiently, " I can't
stay here.

They say the house is haunted, and it is
I know it is. I see his face everywhere — I
hear his voice in every sound ! I am not
afraid of him, but there's the Ghost Room
and ' the White Ladyee.' I lie awake at
night, and hear strange noises, and see strange
faces. I must go away at once, or I shall go
mad !

Will you ask the new manager, with my
compliments, if he will let you come with me
to London for, say, a fortnight, for I cannot
go alone ? "

I knew how fatal to the business my absence
at such a time must be, but I also knew that
I need not wait to ask Jack's consent — he
would feel it a pleasure, a duty, to do anything,
or everything, he could for the child of
his benefactor.

It was arranged, therefore, that we should
go to town the next day ; so we telegraphed
and secured rooms at a private hotel, in one
of the streets off the Strand.

Though tired after the journey, the following
morning Clara was better, and impatient
to go out, but I made her rest.

The day after, however, I chartered a
brougham for the fortnight of our stay, and
took her for a drive daily.

She wanted to go to the theatres at night,

but for the first week I would not hear of
that. I kept her out in the open air from
eleven until five, and took her to see everything
that could interest her, and get her
mind out of the old sorrowful grooves.

Every day she returned home healthfully
fatigued, and every night by nine she retired
to rest. The roses came back to her cheeks,
her eyes began to light up and sparkle,
and occasionally a smile came to her
lips.

As our holiday was getting to an end,
11 Doctor," she said, " I must see the
theatres before we return to Rosemount."

Clerehead had already sent us a box for
the Frivolity, so we went to see " The
Dragoons of Bagdad," a burlesque extravaganza,
in five acts and sixteen spasms.

The first act consisted principally of
doggerel, of which we could make neither
rhyme nor reason — of music without melody,
interpreted by a number of female vocalists

without voices, who had evidently commenced
the operation of dressing, and who had
stopped about half-way up and nearly all the
way down — and of two or three hoarse and
gorilla-like buffoons, who were about as funny
as a funeral.

The theatre was crowded with fashionable
London.

The stalls were principally occupied by
young men with " foreheads villainous
low," and hair cropped like convicts, but
who were, nevertheless, attired in the height
of the prevailing fashion. Many of these
noble youths slept placidly, eyeglass in eye
and toothpick in mouth, and thus characteristically
enjoyed the performance.

At the end of the first act Clara said, with
a curious smile —

I fear I'm not educated up to this
standard. Don't you think we'd better go
home, doctor ? "

So home we went. Half an hour afterwards,

however, she insisted on my taking
her a drive along the embankment.

Next night we went to the " Great International,"
where they were acting a wonderful
drama with hansom cabs, real horses, a prison
van, railway trains, a fire, and I don't know
what else. A crude, bungling, old-fashioned
composition, stupid, but honest ; and though
it made no pretence to art, it neither offended
nor bored one.

We smiled, and were amused as we recognized
fine, old-crusted situations hashed upas
new ones, old-fashioned clap traps translated
into modern platitudes, and dead and buried
friends that once did duty in carroty wigs,
green coats, flowered waistcoats, and continuations,
exhumed and galvanized to life, in
the garb of pious convicts and charitable
cabman.

The critics knew nothing about these
transmogrifications, nor the public either ; so

why should we be wiser than our neighbours ?
Altogether, we passed a pleasant, humdrum,
harmless evening at the " Great International."


The manager came round to our box, and
gushed at Clara, offered her an engagement
there and then, and, in fact, would hardly
take " nay " for an answer. She thanked
him heartily, and promised if she did come
to town, he should have the refusal of her
services.

Every morning brought me a letter from
Herbert and a play-bill. The play-bills she
would insist on seeing, and I noticed that
whenever Caroline was announced for one of
her parts, especially the parts she had been
accustomed to act with Herbert, she would
become restless and irritable.

One morning came a bill of " Romeo and
Juliet." As she crushed it in her hand involuntarily,
as it seemed to me, she looked

round rapidly, but I affected to be engrossed
in the Thanes.

She then carefully spread out the bill, laid
it flat on the table, went to the piano, and
played, " Home they brought her warrior
dead."

At last she said, abruptly —

Doctor Penarvon, you have effected a
cure ; thank you so much. Now let us get back
home. I shall be glad to see the old house
once more. We were so happy there, and I
am not the least bit afraid now, for I am
strong again."

Next day we were on our way to Rose-mount.


Herbert met us at the station on our
arrival.

As ill-luck would have it, at that moment
Caroline entered, and went to the bookstall
(she was a subscriber to Muche) to change a
book. Now, though she didn't see us, we

saw her. Clara declined Herbert's proffered
hand, bowed stiffly, passed by, and sprang
into the cab which the thoughtful Brown had
provided. It took five minutes or more to
get the luggage loaded.

During that time, by pure accident,
Herbert, returning to the city, encountered
Caroline ; and they were walking together
over the bridge as we passed by them on
our way to the Theatre House.

When we commenced our journey, Clara
was joyous as a bird, bright as sunshine, full
of pleasant memories, happy anticipations ;
yet the moment we arrived all was changed,
and clouded by this unfortunate rencontre.

Again she became distraite ) fractious, angry
with everything and everybody.

After a few days' rest, she desired me to
intimate officially to Herbert that she was
anxious to resume her duties.

In accordance with her wishes, it was

arranged that she was to open as Pauline
in u The Lady of Lyons."

There was great curiosity to see her, and
she was received by a crowded house with an
enthusiasm which visibly affected her, and,
indeed, I was afraid she would have broken
down ; but presently she rallied, and returned
to the charge with ardour.

I don't think, up to that period, I had,
except upon the night of " Damon and
Pythias," ever seen an audience so excited
as they were on that occasion in the fourth
act of this play.

The criticises and other small fry of
literature who detest the excellence they are
unable to comprehend or emulate, may vie
with each other as to which of them shall
cast most mud upon the grave of Edward
Lytton Buller, but when any one of them, or
all of them combined, can write anything
(despite its occasional inflation) half so
VOL. II. C

tender, so poetic, and dramatic as " The Lady
of Lyons," it will be time to heed their small
impertinences. Meanwhile they may pass for
what they are worth, " but," as Othello says,
that's not much."

After her reappearance Clara resumed her
old position, but she was colder to Herbert
and more repellent to Caroline than ever,
who, finding every friendly advance repelled,
met coldness with disdain.

Poor Jack on his part, perceiving himself
persistently misunderstood by both ladies,
found his safest refuge in assuming an attitude
of friendly neutrality.

Decidedly things were getting into a bad
way.

The rivals met daily, hourly, were punctiliously
polite and ceremoniously courteous to
each other.

War as yet had not been openly declared,
but it was impending and imminent. They

could no longer conceal from themselves that
they hated each other instinctively — hated
with the unreasoning, illogical, and burning
hatred known only on the stage, and then
only amongst women who are not only rivals
in ambition, but rivals in love.

I looked on with increasing anxiety, for I
saw where the hidden fires of jealousy lay
smouldering, waiting but one spark to kindle
them, and ready, give them vent, to burst
into a flame which, in its fury, might consume
them both.

The spark fell at last.

It was the hand of Boanergus that innocently
fired the train.

Honest Joe had an offer from the manager
of the Great International, and was about to
leave our company.

Of course, he claimed his Benefit, and one
morning, when Jack and I were arranging the
programme for the ensuing week, Joe came to

consult us about the pieces to be acted on
the occasion.

Seven years before, Boanergus had opened
in the part of Clytus, in poor mad Nat Lee's
bombastic tragedy of " The Rival Queens."
In Clytus his star had arisen — in Clytus his
star should set.

In vain did Herbert point out the obsolete
absurdity of the play.

That play Joe would have — that, and no
other !

Besides, sir," said he, " the piece has not
been acted for seven years, and it is remembered
to this day that I knocked everybody
out of sight on my first appearance. Then
see what a ' bill ' it makes —

' The Rival Queens ; or, The Death of
Alexander the Great ! '

There is the entrance of Alexander into
Babylon, in his triumphal car drawn by milk-white
steeds. The car is in the theatre, and

only wants furbishing up with a book or two
of Dutch metal. My friend, the Gipsey, has
promised the loan of his pair of greys. It's
true they're dashed with ginger, but that's
near enough. The Chorus of the Philharmonic
Society have proffered to come
and sing ( See the Conquering Hero comes '
for your entrance into Babylon, and ' Plump
Bacchus with Pink Eye ' for the banquet.

Then look at the cast ! You, sir, as
Alexander — Bliss Trevor and Miss Challoner
for the Queens. It is my private opinion,
Mr. Herbert, that if Alexander had had two
Queens like those on his hands he'd have
had enough to do to keep them in order in
this world, without sighing for new ones to
conquer."

u My dear Boanergus, you are an ass, and
talk of things you don't understand. Let us
confine ourselves to the piece. It is such intolerable
rot, the audience will yell at it.
Have you ever read it ? "

Boanergus replied with promptitude and
dignity —

Sir, I read the ( Morning Post ' daily. I
must keep up my acquaintance with the
fashionable world. Except this, I never read
anything but my own part and my cues, and I
defy any man to say that Joe Boanergus is not
always ' letter-per.' As for the piece, my
impression is that it is a be-dutiful piece."

Beautiful ! Good God, sir ! It's burlesque
and bunkum run mad ! David Garrick was
the greatest genius of his age, but ' all the
King's horses and all the King's men ' could
never induce him to make a fool of himself in
Alexander."

"Ah, Mr. Herbert, that shows how 'cute
he was. Davy, you know, was a little
chap."

So was Alexander — the real Alexander —
and he squinted."

I don't know anything about the real
Alexander. My researches have not led me

much into ancient history, but if the Alexander

of the stage is an inch less than six feet, he's

an impostor. As to his squinting, that might

be an advantage, because he can look two

ways at once — one eye on each Queen. But

I'm sure no one could understand the Rival

Queens kicking up such a row about a chap

of five feet nothing. No, sir ; Alexander

should be a man, sir — a man, and you are

that man ! "

Nonsense, my dear fellow. Would any

man in his senses utter such rubbish as

this ? —

*' ' Keep down, ye rising sighs,
And murmur in the hollow of my breast ;
Run to my heart and gather more sad winds,
That, when the voice of fate shall call you forth,
Ye may at once rush from the seat of life,
Blow the blood out, and burst like a— BLADDER ! '"

Well, Mr. Herbert, I think he might get
over the ground without bursting his bladder,
though, mind you, the Bard himself doesn't
disdain the aid of a useful bladder or two

occasionally — or ' little wanton boys that
swim on ' 'em either, for the matter of that.
But since you object to it, blow the bladder
I mean, cut it out. Cut it to ribbons, sir —
cut everything but my part. I can't have a
line of that touched."

Well, ' I'll dort,' but it dislikes me. How
about the after-piece ? "

Suppose we say 'The Octoroon,' sir?"

Good heavens ! What time do you expect
to be done ? "

Sir, it is my Benefit — my farewell to the
scene of early triumphs, and my patrons like
to have their money's worth. Besides, we
can cut out the last act, and finish with the
Ship on Fire."

Very well — very well ; only tell them
they had better bring their nightcaps with
them."

Ah ! Mr. Herbert, you will have your
little joke. But I must be off. I have to

call on the Mayor and the Colonel of the
Yeomanry for their ( bespeak.' I suppose you
have no objection ?"

Yes I have ! I have the profoundest
objection to the degrading custom. This
beastly ( bespeak ' is a relic of the dark
ages. For my part I'd as lieve ask for a
ticket for soup as for a ' bespeak.' The
public are our patrons, and if we please them
they don't wait to be asked to come to the
play. However, it's your Benefit, not mine,
so do as you like."

iC Sorry we don't see things in the same
light, but everyone to his trade. I am an
actor and you are a gentleman. That makes
all the difference."

It oughtn't make the slightest difference,
Joe. Every actor should be a gentleman ;
in fact, the terms actor and gentleman ought
to be synonymous. Good-morning, Bonner
and so he rang the bell.

When Herbert's man came in, Joe inquired
—

May I ask Foley to call a coach — no, a
cab, I mean ? "

No, no, a coach ; call things by their
proper names, Boanergus. Foley," he continued
—

' Go, call a coach, and let a coach be call'd,
And let the man that calls it be the caller !
And in his calling let him nothing call
But Coach ! Coach ! Coach !
A coach, then, for the bold Bourges ! '

u There, Joe, that's neat and appropriate,
and just after the fashion of your leather-longed
friend Alexander the Asinine."

Boanergus, silent, but not convinced, sallied
forth to look up his Colonel and his Mayor,
while I went to the bank.

Herbert never did things by halves, so
instead of the scissors he took the knife, or
rather the pruning hook, and cut and slashed
The Rival Queens " to such an extent that

if the peaceful dead have any sense of the
vile injuries done to the living," poor Nat Lee
must have had a bad time of it down there
among the dead men " during the rehearsals
of his unfortunate play.

THE RIVAL QUEENS.

Roxana. — Come, give me back his heart,

And thou shalt live empress of all the world.
Statira. — The world is less than Alexander's love.

The eventful night had arrived, big with the
fate of Babylon and Boanergus.

Joe was right in his anticipations ; there
was an enormous house, attracted partly by
his flaming programme and partly by his
popularity, but principally, as I think, by the
partisans of Clara and Caroline.

The dear, stupid public, accustomed to see
Herbert always acting the lover to these

young ladies, arrived at the conclusion that
he must be really " gone" on one or both of
them ; else how could he make love so
divinely ? Of course it was a foregone conclusion
that they were both madly " gone "
on him, and therefore mortally hated each
other.

It was understood that in this particular
play he had set up a Mormon establishment,
and therefore, as a natural consequence, there
would be a bullying match, and a free fight as
to who should retain the proprietorship of the
bigamous hero.

Nor was this an exceptional phase of
public feeling ; only let an actor and actress
be seen to act continually together, especially
in love-stories, and all the young people
in the audience accept as gospel that " he"
is in love with " her," and "she" with
him."

Herbert's duties were so absorbing, and
his ambition so engrossing and so insatiable,

that I don't think these absurd rumours ever
reached him. He was a sort of Grand Lama
of Tibet, after a small fashion, and no one
ever dared to take a liberty with him, especially
a liberty of that kind. I remember once,
however, that a man at the Club asked him
an insolent question in connection with a
certain lady, and that, in reply, he beckoned
the fellow outside, and there and then caned
him within an inch of his life.

After that people were very chary of asking
Jack impertinent questions.

Denuded of yards of fustian, which disfigure
Lee's bombastic play, there are fine
lines and strong situations ; these given with
the player's t( noble frenzy," on this night at
least, gave the audience no time for reflection.

The drama w r as well cast, well acted, and
well dressed ; above all, it was played with
quickness and spirit, and it was received with
positive enthusiasm.

There was only one drawback.

Poor Boanergus, in 6t pushing his Benefit "
with his distinguished friends, had got his
cargo aboard." When he made his first
appearance he had a splendid reception, and
when he went off, he thought he'd keep himself
primed for the banquet, so he continued
to imbibe " potations pottle deep."

Statira (Caroline) had a most cordial welcome,
but when Herbert entered as Alexander
in his triumphal car (horses and all), I
thought the house would have come down
about our ears.

Roxana (Clara) does not make her appearance
until the third act.

I think the people had begun to despair of
seeing her, and hence, when she appeared
thus late in the play, she had the most
enthusiastic reception of the night.

When the Rival Queens confronted each
other, and began to exchange compliments of
an emphatic character, the audience displayed

eager anticipation, but were evidently disappointed
when they found the interview terminated
with only a little tall talking.

At length came the banquet. The noble
Clytus was by this time "o'er all the ills of
life victorious."

'Tis true, the good old Greek was supposed
to be really Bacchi plexus, but Joe
had " snatched a grace beyond the reach of
art," and was, in fact, so ' screwed • that he
could scarcely keep his feet. He rolled from
side to side, and roared out his lines from the
bottom of his boots — sandals I should say.
Nearly every word he uttered kept the audience
in a roar, to the infinite disgust of
Herbert, for drunkenness was the only fault
of humanity to which he was utterly intolerant.


At last things reached a climax when Clytus
said —

l< Philip fought men — but Alexander, women."

At this taunt "young Ammon " leaped

from his throne to the banquet table, exclaiming
—

Women !
Was I a woman, when at Oxydrace
I planted at the walls a scaling-ladder,
And mounted spite of showers of stones, bars, arrows,
And all the lumber which they thundered down —
When you beneath cried out, and spread your arms
That I should leap amongst you, did I so ? "

The climax of absurdity was reached by
Clytus replying, with drunken gravity —
Dread sire, you did ! }J

Everybody, audience and actors included,
burst into a Gargantuan roar of laughter at
this ridiculous non sequitur ; that is, everybody
except Herbert, whose anger rose to
fury as, snatching up a javelin, he put an end
to Clytus's folly and his life at once.

Seeing that under the circumstances it
would be inappropriate to waste time in
maudlin lamentations over the defunct and
drunken veteran, Tony Aston, the stage

VOL. II. D

manager sent Eugene on to tell of Stairs's
peril.

When Alexander heard the direful tidings
he sprang to his feet and rushed off to save
his love, exclaiming —

All draw your swords, on wings of lightning move ;
Young Amnion leads you, and the cause is love.
When I rush on, sure none will dare to stay,
Tis beauty calls, and glory leads the way,"

whereupon the applause was deafening.

From this moment the play went like a
whirlwind to the end ; a strange excitement
was in the air, an excitement which culminated
in the final passage-alarms between the
Rival Queens.

As the two women encountered each other,
their superb beauty, enhanced by their magnificent
and characteristic costumes, formed
a physical and picturesque contrast as unique
as it was remarkable.

The situation of the scene, the very words
they uttered, transported them beyond themselves

into another age, another world ; they
were no longer Clara and Caroline — they
were Roxana and Statira, both loving the
same man, each hating the other, and throwing
the burning intensity of her own nature
into the poet's lines.

It had ceased to be acting; it had become
a terrible reality. Their eyes sparkled with
jealous rage, their bosoms palpitated with the
fury which their countenances could no longer
conceal.

Thus opposed, each ready to rush upon
her enemy and join in the death-struggle,
they stood, defying and defiant.

At this moment " the luckless cause of all
their woes " was heard without. At the
sound of his voice Roxana sprang upon
Statira, and, unsheathing her dagger, with
a wild cry of vengeance plunged it into her
detested rival's bosom !

Through the crowded theatre rang a shrill,
piercing cry of agony, which thrilled through

every heart, and the whole house surged in a
wild commotion as Alexander bounded on the
stage.

For one moment, only one, Roxana brandished
the avenging poignard aloft in triumphant
exultation ; the next she encountered
Statira's reproachful eyes. Then what horror
was it struck the unhappy Queen motionless
and dumb ?

The fatal weapon dropped from her nerveless
grasp ; its sharp point, as it fell, penetrated
the stage fully an inch deep.

There the hateful thing remained, erect
and quivering, the jewels in its heft glittering
in the light like the eyes in a serpent's head
preparing for its deadly spring.

The agonized face of the dying Statira
might have been transformed to that of
Medusa, for as she sank senseless in her
royal lover's arms it seemed as if her expiring
glance had petrified her victorious
rival into stone.

I must explain at once what had occurred.
Before the last act commenced Clara asked
Bassett, the property man, for the " trick"
dagger, used for Juliet and Othello. In this
weapon the blade recoils with a spring into
the handle, so that when the supposed fatal
blow is struck it presents the appearance of
really entering the bosom of Juliet or Othello,
when, in fact, they are not even scratched
with it. Now, Mr. Bassett, after the custom
of his kind, had been doing honour to
Boanergus's Benefit in copious libations of
cold without," and the drunken brute had
thrust into Clara's hand at the last moment
prior to her going on the stage a real dagger
instead of a trick one !

The curtain had already rung up. The
cue was given for her entrance, and in her
haste she had no time to examine the weapon ;
hence, when she pretended to stab her rival,
to her consternation she found that she had
really done so !

There she stood, convulsed and horror-stricken,
and there lay Caroline almost lifeless
in Herbert's arms.

Tony took stock of the situation at once,
and closed the scene like lightning on this
novel and unexpected tableau. By great good
fortune I happened to be at the wing, and,
snatching Caroline from Herbert, I thrust
him on the stage for his last scene.

He told me afterwards he felt that something
was wrong, though what it was he did
not know till the play was over. He was
impressed with the consciousness of some
impending calamity, but he had his double
duty as actor and manager to fulfil, and he
did it.

He had never played this part before; he
had the words to think of ; he had to act the
scene in a position not contemplated at the
rehearsal. He had to bring the play to a
triumphant conclusion, yet all the time he
heard Statira's dying cry, saw Roxana's

remorseful face, and the fatal dagger quivering
at her feet !

Meanwhile I had carried Caroline to her
dressing-room. Clara, who had followed like
one dazed, at length awoke to the full horror
of the situation. She cast herself on her
rival with tears and cries, with prayers and
lamentations. Amidst her passionate abandonment
Herbert entered the room with the
doctor, who had been sent for.

This gentleman examined Caroline's wound,
and said portentously —

H'm ! a narrow escape."

But say, sir, that there's no danger ; for
God's sake say that ! " exclaimed Clara.

There is great danger— great danger,
madam," he replied.

Oh ! God ! " cried the unhappy girl,
what have I done ! How can I ever
forgive myself?"

Penarvon," said Herbert, " don't you

think you had better see Miss Trevor to her
dressing-room ? "

The cold, and almost cruel tone of his voice
recalled Clara to herself. She saw in that
moment that henceforth his heart was closed
to her, if, indeed, it had ever been open ; so,
without another word, she suffered me to
take her hand and lead her forth. I conducted
her across the stage to the corridor
of the Theatre House, down which she glided
away in the semi-darkness, till she passed out
from my sight and vanished like one of the
spectres with which they said the place was
haunted.

Returning to the stage in no very amiable
mood, I encountered the property man whose
negligence had been the cause of this
calamity. The great hulking ruffian was
reeling drunk, and brutally insolent, so I did
myself the pleasure of helping him down the
stairs, and then propelled him, with the aid of

my boot and my sound leg, from one end of
the pit passage to the other, and so on to the
gutter at the opposite side of the street.

We kept Caroline in her dressing-room till
the performance was over, and the audience
and actors had left the theatre.

Our object was to avoid publicity as much
as possible, so Herbert and I, and the master
carpenter, accompanied by the doctor,
wrapped her up carefully and carried her
to Precentor's Court on the Hamlet bier.

Further examination proved that the
dagger's point had fortunately glanced on
the steel busk of her corsage, else she would
not have escaped with life. As it was, the
wound was a serious one, and required the
utmost care and attention.

This unfortunate event took place on Friday.
Saturday was the last night of the
season at Rosemount.

On Monday the Italian Opera Company-opened
at Whitetown, and I had to go thereto
superintend affairs, while Herbert and the
rest of the company were to open in Castletown
on the same night with " Hamlet."

Of course it was a serious drawback not to
have Caroline for the opening performance;
but imagine my consternation, upon arriving
at the theatre for the purpose of holding treasury
on Saturday at midday, to learn that
Clara was non est ! Subsequently we learnt
from the doctor that she had called upon him,
apparently in a state of great anxiety of mind,
at nine o'clock that morning to enquire as to
Caroline's condition. When informed that she
was out of danger, Clara appeared much relieved,
and returning direct to the Theatre
House, told Brown " she was going to London
and should never again return ; that as soon
as she was settled she would communicate
with him as to the disposal of the plate,
linen, pictures, furniture, &c, in the Theatre
House."

She paid him a year's wages, kissed Mrs.
Brown, and cried a good deal. Then she went
to the station, where she had two minutes' private
conversation with old Titus, the stationmaster,
who attended on her as if she were a
Princess of the Blood.

A grand saloon had been to the north with
some royal personages. To this spacious
and palatial carriage, Titus conducted Clara,
and locked the door. He posted on the
window an " engaged " label, and gave the
guard strict injunctions, to release her for
lunch at Peterboro', but otherwise to keep the
doors locked, and on no account to permit
any second person to enter the carriage ; and
then the old man, who had met her the first
night she ever came to Rosemount, and who
loved her dearly as he had loved Fairfax long
before, kissed her, and said, " God bless you,
my bonnie dearie," and stood looking at her,
and after her, with tearful eyes until the train
passed out of sight.

There was no letter, no message— no, not
one word.

Yes, there was a bunch of " forget-me-nots
" left for me. That was all. I took the
flowers with trembling hand from Brown,
affecting unconcern ; but, oh ! when I was
alone with my treasure I pressed them to my
lips ; I moistened them with tears of joy and
gratitude to think that I was not wholly forgotten
— nay, more, that she had asked me,
by those speechless but eloquent messengers,
not to forget her. I have those poor flowers
still — faded, withered, it is true, but always
fresh in my heart now as then.

Herbert was hurt, and I admit justly, at her
abrupt departure. It was an inexcusable and
utterly unjustifiable violation of all professional
etiquette, and might have been attended
with serious, if not fatal, consequences.

In the emergency little Fanny Heathcote,
the soubrette of the company, got through
Ophelia decently, and Miss Atherton played

the Queen ; but of course the public would
not accept them as adequate substitutes for
Clara and Caroline, and their absence had a
most injurious effect on the prospects of the
season.

A month elapsed, and still we heard no
tidings of my poor darling.

At length the news came through the
London papers that she had opened at the
Great International in Juliet, and had taken
the town by storm.

I sent her a laurel wreath and a bouquet of
flowers, but received no acknowledgment.

All then was over between us ; thenceforth
my heart bled in silence, but I bore my cross
as best I might.

PLIGHTED TROTH.

So rush'd, mix'd, melted, life with life united !
Lips, cheeks burn'd, trembled — soul to soul was won !
And earth and heaven seem'd chaos, as, delighted,
Earth — heaven was blent round the beloved one."

Caroline rapidly recovered health and
strength.

It was apparent at last that Herbert loved
her ; his love had been growing and ripening
until it burst into life on the night of
41 The Rival Queens."

The pity of it," her peril, her innocence,
her helplessness, her unprotected loveliness,
all these combined to create a passion so intense

and absorbing that he grew to live in
the light of her eyes, to hunger for the music
of her voice, to feel that life was not worth
living without her. As for her, her heart had
gone out of her keeping the very night she
first beheld him ; to her he had ever been the
man of men, the quintessence of all that was
manly, and chivalrous, and noble, and tender
true.

For some time they must have read each
other's hearts, though no word had left their
lips to bind their lives.

At length the supreme moment came.

The coincidences in the lives of these two
women were more than strange. Clara opened
in London on the very night that Caroline
made her first appearance after her recovery
in Castleton.

The play was Tom Taylor's noble drama
u Clancarty." It was then acted for the first
time in the company, and it was a revelation
to all concerned — actors and audience.

We were crowded to overflowing in front,
and after the first act I was privileged by
Tony to stand in the prompt entrance.

They had reached the great situation in the
third act, in which the supposed Captain
Heseltine, escaping from his pursuers, amidst
a shower of bullets, gains shelter and sanctuary
in Lady Clancarty's chamber, where he
reveals to her that he is not Heseltine, but
her own true and loyal husband, whom she
has never seen since they parted, years before,
boy and girl at the altar.

There is a picture of Leighton's — a man
and a maiden are clinging to each other.
They are clad in the garb of some remote
classic age. She is fair, he is dark. Her
dewy eyes, half closed, look through their
long lashes up to his in the very ecstasy of
innocent love ; her chaste lips, quivering with
virgin ardour, are uplifted for the nuptial
kiss. The two figures standing on the stage
save that she is dark and he is fair, and

that they are attired in the costume of a later
time — crystallize the poetry of that picture
into life for me.

Even while the idea flashed through my
mind, Caroline puts it into words as she murmurs
in softest music — " Now take me to your
arms and kiss me as bridegroom kisses bride."
The divine light of love leaped from her eyes
into his ; she sank into his arms, he laid his
lips on hers, and with that first kiss of love
their lives were consecrated to each other.
More than twice a thousand eyes were on
them, but she could see only his — he could
see only hers ; they were oblivious of everything
save that they loved and were beloved.

A long explanatory scene had to follow, in
which Clancarty should relate how he had
effected his escape. I saw it was useless to
expect him to speak it, so, much to Tony
Aston's indignation, I took the liberty of
sending Lady Betty Noel on the stage to

VOL. II. E

bring the lovers back from Heaven to St.
James's Square.

The remainder of " Clancarty " passed unnoted
by me, for I saw the play within the
play, and I rejoiced at their happiness though
mine was gone for ever.

Some weeks later Jack showed me two
small and beautifully executed miniatures,
mounted in brilliant, and set in lockets of
gold ; the one was of Caroline, the other of
himself. She had painted them both. As
likenesses they were striking, as works of art
they were really admirable.

Not bad likenesses, are they, Bob ?" he
said.

One of these lockets was made in a peculiar
fashion ; it was attached to a gold neck-chain,
and so arranged that it could be worn
as a brooch. I noted that from that time
forth Caroline always wore it about her neck.

Although it was an open secret that they

were engaged to each other, no time as yet
was fixed for their marriage.

As for Clara, I eagerly followed the records
of her career in town, and rejoiced to find
that (though every triumph removed her
further from me) success followed success ;
in fact she was the celebrity of the season.

At length she sent for her books, music,
plate, pictures, &c, and the dear old Theatre
House where we had passed such happy hours
with her and our dear, dead friend, was dismantled
and untenanted save by the ghosts
of the dead past.

The White Ladyee" had it all to herself
now.

UBRAttf

■wcocnv or m' wA,<?

FAILURE.

The vices and the virtues are written in a language
the world cannot construe ; it reads them in a vile translation,
and the translators' names are failure and success."

TIME passed quickly and pleasantly for all —
but me.

Herbert and Caroline had found the
golden grain in the dull sand of life."
Clara had reached the goal of her artistic
ambition. I alone was without one gleam of
hope, for wherever she was not, life was
but as a barren desert.

It was perhaps as well for me, in my then

state of mind, that a change took place in my
position. Tony Aston, who was never the
same man after Fairfax's death, sent in his
resignation, and went on the Drury Lane
fund, to the benefits of which he was entitled,
having served his three years in the National
Theatre before I was born.

From the very moment I joined the company,
I had attached myself to the old man,
and assisted him in making his prompt-books,
copying his plots, &c, and had gone in to
study the technique of stage management
with him. Now " virtue was its own reward."
When he left us he bequeathed me his entire
collection of marked books, plots, music cues,
and playbills, — a collection as complete and
comprehensive, as it is unique and unrivalled.
When Herbert ultimately asked me to assist
him in the stage management, I jumped at
the proposal.

For a considerable period the various
theatres progressed most satisfactorily. Herbert's

military training now stood him in good
stead ; he knew how to command as well as to
obey. A strict disciplinarian, he kept everybody
and everything in perfect order, a terror
to the idle and dissolute, but beloved by all
who knew their duty and did it.

Most of the distinguished authors and
actors were his most intimate friends, and as
for young beginners, why he was the tutelary
divinity of undiscovered geniuses.

So far his management was triumphantly
successful. But alas ! all was not to remain
couleur de rose. Clouds were gathering in
the distance.

The theatre at Castletown was too small
for the continually increasing population, and
in an evil moment he was induced to invest
the greater portion of his remaining capital ina
new building, which was, indeed, an ornament
to the town, furnished as it was with
every modern improvement, and far in advance

of most of the Metropolitan theatres of that

period.

We opened our new theatre with a revival

of " Hamlet."

Finding no reliable archaeological authors
o

cities, Herbert gave his fine taste unlimited
scope. Caroline, who sketched admirably
and had a rare eye for colour, designed most
of the costumes. The production was distinguished
for so much splendour and good
taste that the play had a prolonged run, and
we made a great deal of money as well as
kudos by it.

A celebrated dramatist and art critic (who
was indebted to us for the production of one
of his plays, which the London managers
wouldn't look at, though afterwards it achieved
a great success in town !) came down to our
first night, and was so much struck with the
performance that he induced a rising R.A. of
great ability to come and see it also. The

young painter was enraptured, and persuaded
Herbert and Caroline to sit to him for a life-sized
study of the parting of Hamlet and
Ophelia in the third act.

He seized the moment when Ophelia,
returning the gifts to Hamlet, exclaims —

Their perfume lost,
Take these again ; for, to the noble mind,
Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind."

The painter barely sketched in the outlines
of the figures and their surroundings,
but he finished the two heads. They were
magnificent studies. Herbert's expressive
features and leonine front were relieved by a
profusion of long, waving, golden hair, which
contrasted admirably with Caroline's wistful,
pale face, and abundant raven locks.

At the end of the run of the play we sent a
large photograph of the scene, together with
a couple of cabinet pictures of Hamlet and
Ophelia, to enable the painter to complete the
work at his leisure.

Our first season was a triumphant success,
but "one swallow doesn't make a summer,"
and several successful seasons were essential
to enable Herbert to recoup himself for his
large outlay.

He was not a good financier, nor, to be
frank, was I either.

The success of u Hamlet," I regret to say,
induced him the following season, contrary
to my advice, to launch out into other poetic
revivals of a less popular character, notably
one of a dull, dry Roman play, which was
attended with great labour and expense, and
resulted in a loss of many thousands of
pounds. To remedy one imprudence he committed
several others. He began to neglect
his acting, and to rush into numerous wild-goose
speculations —par exemple, he annexed
a large theatre in Scotland, and he also took
one in Lancashire. This necessitated large
outlays, incessant labour, and continual
travelling to and fro ; indeed, towards Christmas

he almost lived on the railways. At the
end of the third year of our management the
financial look-out was very dark indeed.
Trade was in a deplorable condition.

We were relying on our pantomimes to
retrieve our heavy losses, and Herbert didn't
contemplate the prospect with much equanimity,
inasmuch as he had a most profound
contempt for this class of entertainment, and
still greater disdain for the blockheads who
came to see it.

To emphasize his opinion at Christmastide
his play-bills were thus contemptuously
headed —

Annual Feast of Folly ! "

followed by this significant quotation —

See'st thou not what a deformed thief this Fashion is ? ,r

In the year 1 88 — our " Feasts of Folly "
were in full blast of preparation at four
different theatres, involving an outlay of
many thousands of pounds, and, if successful,

realizing many thousands of profit — if unsuccessful,
ruin !

The preparations had progressed favourably
enough, and by a judicious transposition
of dates it was so arranged that the " master "
might be present at the first night in each
town.

The Scotch pantomime was produced a
week prior to Christmas, that in Lancashire
the following Wednesday, the one at Rose-mount
on Christmas Eve, and at Castletown
(where I was located) on Boxing-night.

Ten days before the production of the
Scotch pantomime, the great local bank
burst up " with a crash, involving the whole
community in general ruin. Consequently
the Scotch speculation was doomed before it
saw the footlights.

Misfortunes never come singly."

The pantomime at Rosemount was
cooked " by a drunken ruffian of a carpenter,
who bolted at the last moment, having

previously " fouled " the ropes and deranged
the machinery so thoroughly that, on
the opening night, not a single scene worked
properly. Of course this was remedied after
two or three performances, but the mischief
was done and was irremediable.

The Lancashire affair was more fortunate,
and yielded two or three thousand pounds
profit, while as for ours at Castletown —

JIMMY GREEN.
Only a clown, my masters, only a clown."

JOLLY little Jimmy Green," and " the renowned
Signor Tomaso Schmiderine " (born
Smith), were engaged as our clown and
harlequin. They were strangers, and approached
Herbert with fear and trembling,
but his gracious manner soon put them at
their ease, and as they were both clever and
industrious, their portion of the business was
speedily and admirably arranged.

The dress rehearsal of the opening scenery,
&c, was over ; in fact, everything was ready

except the harlequinade, which required
polishing up a little, and was therefore
called" for ten o'clock on the morning
preceding Christmas Day.

There had been an awful snowstorm the
night before, the like of which had not occurred
within the memory of man.

Although I only lived a mile from the
theatre it took me an hour to get down.

Now there was a family of itinerant players,
known for some generations in Yorkshire and
Lancashire, highly respectable, industrious,
decent people, whose only idea was to live
honestly by their humble calling, to pay their
way, and save a little for a rainy day. They
travelled with their own wooden theatre, and
acted in small towns, at wakes, fairs, &c.

As we were about to commence our rehearsal,
the porter came and told me that
Tom Wylder, the head of the sept, was in
the hall, and wanted to see Herbert.

Poor Tom was in sore tribulation ; they had
erected their little theatre at Barford, had got
their bills out, and had completed their arrangements
for opening with their pantomime
on Boxing-night, when, in consequence of
the snowstorm their primitive building had
come down with a run.

Herbert did not wait to hear any more ; he
dismissed the rehearsal until night, ordered
Ruston, the master carpenter, and all his men
to take their tools and the first train for Barford,
and place themselves at the disposal of
Wylder. The poor fellow was overcome with
emotion, and with tears running down his
honest face, he exclaimed —

Esther John, if ever I forget this, I wish
that the Almighty may forget me!" and he
never did forget it.

With the aid of the poor show people, who
worked with a will, Wylder's " Temple of
Thespis" was soon re-erected, and our men
returned in time for the night rehearsal.

The harlequinade was rapidly run through.
Everything was finished. There had been
only one hitch; the renowned Tomaso — no,
let me call him Tom Smith — had to turn a
hand-spring, and he was not ait fait at the
trick.

Try back," said Herbert.

Tom did " try back," but he couldn't
manage the hand-spring cleanly.

There was no one left in the theatre but the
clown, the harlequin, the gasman, Herbert,
and myself.

Jimmy Green was at the wing taking off his
practising shoes, and putting on a pair of
heavy boots.

He had just finished lacing his ankle jacks
when he sprang up. " Look here," says he,
I'll show you how to ' fake ' it ; this is
how it's done, old man ; " and suiting the
action to the word, up went Jimmy, heels overhead,
and came down on his feet " like a
load of bricks." But though he alighted on

his feet the next moment he was on his back
with his face white as death, and the cold
sweat streaming from his forehead.

Quick as lightning Herbert had the poor
clown in his arms.

Cheer up, little man, cheer up," says he ;
you're not hurt much ? "

Not much," says Jimmy, with a ghastly
attempt at a smile, " I've only made a star
trap of my knee, that's all, sir. It's them
beastly boots as done it."

I'm so sorry," says Tom ; " it's all my
blooming stupidity."

Never mind, old man," replies Jimmy,
11 you couldn't help it ; we can't all be born
acrobats, you know."

Perhaps it's not so bad as you think,"
says the manager; " let's have a look at the
knee." So saying, he removed Jimmy's
tights," and sure enough his right knee-cap
was smashed to pieces.

VOL. II. F

In a very grave voice Herbert says to me,
11 Bob, see if my trap is at the door."

All right," says I.

Come along then, Mr. Green," says
Herbert, " it's rather late " (it was about two
in the morning), " but I daresay they'll let us
in at the Infirmary."

But what's to become of the pantomime,
sir, and who's a-going' to play clown ? " says
Jimmy.

*' Never mind about that," replies Herbert,
pleasantly. "If the worst comes to the worst
I'll play clown myself, so that's all right.
Give a hand, boys. There you are, my man ! "

And we lifted poor Jimmy, as tenderly as if
he were a baby, into Herbert's brougham,
and so the strange group, clown, harlequin,
Herbert, and myself, started for the Infirmary.

Jack was a liberal patron of this magnificent
institution (it was the finest in the
North), and his name was a passport at
all hours.

If the poor clown had been the Prime
Minister he could not have been treated with
greater kindness and courtesy.

The injured knee was examined, and we
all awaited the verdict with great anxiety.

H'm ! It's a bad case," says the doctor.

I hope I'll be able to play clown in a
fortnight, sir," says Jimmy.

My poor little man," says the doctor,
tenderly, " you'll never play clown again."

Oh ! my poor wife and bairns," sobs
Jimmy.

Don't trouble about them, Mr. Green,"
Herbert replies. " I'll look after them."

God bless you, sir ! " gasps the poor
clown, and falls back.

"He's fainted," says Tom.

So much the better. Mrs. Jones," says
the doctor to the nurse, " there's a decanter
of old port in the cellaret in my room. Go
and bring it, and look alive."

Gradually Jimmy begins to revive. The

doctor, who has let fall a few drops of some
mysterious stuff from a little green phial into
a glass of his own particular port, says —
Drink this — it will do you good."
Half a minute, sir," says Jimmy, pulling
himself together ; with an effort he continues
— " Tom, you'll drop it gently to Lisa
and the kids. You remember the old crib in
Hercules Buildings — number 89 ? Don't you
cry, old man — it wasn't your fault. After
all, it's the fortune of war. Some's born to
be lucky, some to be unlucky. I was allays
one of the unlucky 'uns." Then to Herbert
" Sam, that's the ' party ' knows all my
1 biz,' sir, and can ' fake' through clown ;
the super-master can ' gammon' the ( party,'
and Tom there'll keep the boys straight — and
it'll be all gumbo, won't it, Tom ? Thanked,
doctor — here's success to the pantomime,
anyhow, captain."

So saying, he tossed off the contents of
the glass, and five minutes later he was sleeping

so soundly that he seemed oblivious both
of pains and pantomimes.

If he dreamt at all, let us hope he dreamt
that Lisa and the bairns were happy keeping
Christmas, and that this day — this one day of
all days in the year, at least, they were spared
the news which the morrow must bring, all
too soon.

During the run of the pantomime, regularly
as Saturday came, by Herbert's orders, I
remitted to Jimmy's wife Jimmy's salary, nor
was this all. Jack made an appeal to the
public to get up a subscription for the poor
clown, besides which he gave him a benefit,
and the actors, with their usual good-nature,
gave their gratuitous services for a matinee.

Herbert, with his accustomed generosity,
handed over the entire receipts (paying all
expenses out of his own pocket). The
benefit cleared over ^200. The subscription
list amounted to £\q6. In all we realized

^400, which was devoted to setting poor
Green up in business when he left the
Infirmary two months later.

Alas ! this misfortune was but the precursor
to a crowd of troubles, which quickly trod
upon each other's heels.

The Castletown pantomime was a dead
failure, and involved an awful loss — I'm.
afraid to say how much.

Thus bad begins, but worse remains
behind." Failure followed upon failure.

The new theatre was heavily mortgaged.
The mortgagees foreclosed and took possession.
Tradesmen came down like locusts
in every direction. A meeting of creditors
was called, and they nearly broke poor Jack's
heart by making him a bankrupt.

The company was disbanded ; the theatres
were closed ; there was a general collapse ;
and the end was absolute ruin !

The estate yielded fifteen shillings in the

pound. The payments were duly made, and
Herbert received his order of discharge.

Legally he did not owe a shilling in the
world, and had he followed my advice he
would have remained free of all responsibility,
but, unfortunately, he was induced, despite
my urgent protestations, to renew the balance
of certain liabilities, which he considered debts
of honour, with results that shall be narrated
in their proper place.

Poor Jack ! I stayed with him as long as I
could be of any use.

At last one morning, when I had got to
my last sovereign, he said to me —

Look here, Bob, this will never do. 'A
ruined man is now Sir Thomas Clifford.'
You'd better go to town. Three days ago I
wrote to Clerehead, telling him that you
were in the market, and this is his reply."

And he handed me a letter in which
Clerehead offered me an immediate engagement
at a salary beyond my most sanguine

expectations. I objected most strongly to
leave Jack in his trouble, but he insisted, and
when he had once made up his mind nothing
could induce him to change it ; so I yielded
to his wishes and concluded the engagement
at once. Next day, with a heavy heart, I left
my poor friend for London. Could I have
dreamt ! — but, there — there — what avails it
now ? " E'en fate itself upon the past can
have no power! "

On my presenting myself at the Frivolity
Clerehead gave me a cordial welcome, and
bade me make myself at home without
ceremony.

At first the class of pieces, and sometimes
the class of people, were not exactly what I
desired, but " what can't be cured must be
endured." I did my duty to the best of my
ability, and Clerehead was satisfied — but oh !
for the happy days of old !

If I could only find Her, if I could only

speak to her, hear her voice, look upon her
face once more !

I learnt that she was engaged for the
winter at the Great International, but it was
the opera season now, so of course she
wasn't playing.

The hall porter gave me her address at
Cheyne Walk, Chelsea. I went there ; she
had left three months ago. The landlady
thought she had gone to "star" at some
watering-place, or she might have gone abroad
she was sure she didn't know.

Was she coming back? "

Didn't know."

If she came back would she drop me a
line?"

The good lady's sympathies were quickened
by the half-crown which I gave her little girl,
and she promised to let me know if She returned.


I settled down mechanically to my duties

with little devotion for them. I wrote
frequently to Herbert begging him to come
to town and stay with me ; he replied
buoyantly enough, but always declining my
proffered invitation, alleging that he was
preparing for the winter campaign, and that
he was reiterating at the seaside.

I watched and waited for Her, but the
months passed away, the summer changed
into autumn, and still no sign.

THE FASHIONABLE IMPRESARIO.

Wit wars with Beauty everlastingly,
Yearns for no angel, worships to no God.
Views the heart's wealth, to steal it, as the thief
Assails Delusion but to kill Belief."

It is now the end of autumn. I am reconciled
to, but not satisfied with, my position.

I am still anxious about Herbert — still
more anxious about Her.

Van Vort and I fraternize in our bachelor
way, and talk about old times.

I have an easy berth ; am turning my attention
a little to dramatic composition, and am
vain enough to think that I can write something

more intelligent than the u rot" I am
compelled to listen to nightly.

I get on better with Clerehead than I
anticipated, and, in his peculiar way, he begins
to take a fancy to me. Decidedly he is a
queer fish !

I know not when or where to have him ;
we are as opposite as the poles in our views
upon nearly every subject, and yet there is
one thing I fully appreciate in him — that is, a
certain element of manliness. However
heterodox may be his opinions, he has the
courage of them, and doesn't care the

decimal part of a dump for Mrs.

Grundy and her whole brood ; in fact, I rather
think he takes a malicious pleasure in shocking
Philistine prejudice.

Tolerant as he is to every weakness or
frailty of humanity, he doesn't scruple to
avow his own pet aversions. Like the
glorious monarch of immortal memory, he
hates Poetry and Painting, and he literally

detests the Bard, the Bible, and the game
of Whist ! The first he stigmatizes as a
twaddler and a nuisance, and he prefers to keep
the other two for the solace of the future, instead
of employing them for the edification
or amusement of the present.

His career has been a remarkable one.

At the particular period when he first
became known the prospects of the poetic
drama were at the lowest ebb. The light
was dawning in the distance, but the renaissance
had not yet set in — not in town, at
least.

The educated minority devoted themselves,
almost exclusively, to the admiring contemplation
of drawing-room charades, yclept
comedies.

Shakespere, it is true, was heard of occasionally
in the suburbs or in an unknown
tongue, but to see or hear him to advantage
in his native language, it was necessary to
pay a visit to his native county, to Manchester

or Liverpool, the great Northern
Circuit, or some similarly benighted place.

Sometimes, indeed, glowing accounts of
provincial performers and performances would
find their way into the London journals ; but
London herself had a craze for foreign actors
in English parts, Irish dramas with poetic
bog-trotters, comedies with full-flavoured
caricatures of the British nobility, dramas
of the day with real cabs, real horses, real
waterfalls, nude feminine Mazeppas, blonde
burlesque women, more or less naked (generally
more), and cellar-flap dancing !

The public taste grew by what it fed on,
and, like the horse leech's daughter, cried,
More — give us more ! "

The hour had come to satisfy this craving
for the infinite of commonplace.

With the hour came the man — a man who
had passed through many strange and varied
experiences. To-day he was a hanger-on at
the Stock Exchange in some occult capacity

; tomorrow a journalistic free-lance ; a

month later a compiler of farces (one of which

an aspiring low comedian brought to birth) ; a

month after that he became critic for a small

weekly ; and at length he emerged full-fledged

as the permanent dramatic critic to the

Daily Scorcher."

Of course he knew little, or nothing, about

the drama (at least, not at that time), but his

colleagues were equally innocent for that

matter ; and as the public knew less than

either, his modest utterances passed for

gospel.

Some have at first for wits, then poets, past,
Turned critics next, and proved plain fools at last."

No one, however, could accuse this man
of being a fool. If he " came a cropper"
to-day, he was on his feet tomorrow. Often
baffled, but never beaten, smiling, patient,
alert, vigilant, and always waiting for his
chance, he never ceased to watch the changing
waves of public opinion.

He was of the same mind with " the unfortunate
nobleman" as to the relative proportions
of " money and brains." Brains he had
in abundance, and money he meant to have
by-and-bye.

He was shrewd, sharp, and clever, with a
cynical bonhomie which passed muster for wit,
and an assurance which was sublime in its
quiet, self-contained and spontaneous assertiveness.


Besides these qualifications for success ) he
was active, indefatigable, and audacious ; so
active that he never let a chance escape him ;
so indefatigable that he never rested day or
night : so audacious that he was ready to take
the helm of any enterprise, however desperate.
Obviously he only wanted the opportunity to
become a great man.

A good deal of his too abundant leisure
had been devoted to studying the manners,
motives, and morals of the music halls, a
charming, refined, and innocent outcome of

nineteenth century civilization. He quickly
noted that, notwithstanding the tawdriness,
the stupidity, the occasional obscenity, which
permeated some of the entertainments most
popular at these delectable places of resort ;
the habitues were rarely bored (or, if so, the
infliction only lasted for an infinitesimals
short period), were not infrequently amused ;
and, if a man, woman, or child could only
occasionally be smashed, by the breaking of
a trapeze, or the snapping of a rope, they even
condescended to be interested.

Hence he arrived at the conclusion that if
funds could only be found to float a fashionable
entertainment of this character in a
central locality — an entertainment making
no demand upon the intellect, or even the intelligence,
of the upper ten, yet sagaciously
titillating their ears, eyes, and other senses —
it could be done with desirable financial results.


VOL. II. G

At this moment a great scientific institution
in an important thoroughfare came to
grief, and was to be disposed of " for an old
song."

Within forty-eight hours a syndicate was
formed, consisting of a promoter of companies,
a penniless lord, a speculative solicitor,
a Hebrew bill discounter, a bill-poster,
an advertising agent, a music seller, a wine
merchant, a brewer, a bagman, a printer, a
pawnbroker, a parson, and the man himself.

Ten days later every journal in London was
flooded with advertisements of " The Royal
Pandemonium Palace Company, formed for
the purpose of supplying the public with
popular and innocent amusements. Capital
-£ 1 00,000, in shares of ^*io each. Ten percent,
interest guaranteed."

The thing was taken up by the knowing
ones in the city. Shares went like wildfire ;
the enterprise was launched, and the promoter
was appointed managing director at a

princely honorarium, together with a percentage
of the profits.

It is said that " every man has his price,"
but this man knew that courtesy went further
than coin with his colleagues, however humble
they were. Two or three snug little suppers
were given in a quiet way, and the "boys"
were asked over their pipes and punch to
give a fella a leg up." They did so,
and in an inconceivably short space of time
"the distinguished journalist, the eminent
litterateur, the accomplished gentleman, the
enterprising impresario," James Clerehead,
was familiar in men's mouths as household
words."

Practically at that time he knew as much
about the actual management of the Pandemonium
as he did of the Channel fleet or the
traffic of the Great Pacific Railway ; but he
would have taken the command of either of
these important institutions, or even the
direction of the Bank of England (especially

the Bank !) or our Indian Empire, at a
moment's notice.

He was sufficiently sagacious to get the
people who could do anything and everything,
hence he surrounded himself with the best
artists and the best staff of officials that could
be procured for love or money.

New brooms sweep clean. One can always
be liberal with other people's money, but
Clerehead was liberal with his own. His
activity, his industry, but above all his nous,
combined with his frank and debonair
manner, made the Pandemonium a great
financial success, and the shares paid twenty,
thirty, and even forty per cent.

Presently the proprietors began to think
the affair was an automatic engine, capable
of running without an engineer. A row arose
and Clerehead retired from the management
amidst a blaze of legal fireworks. He, however,
had sent up the last rocket, and nothing
remained but the stick.

A few months, and he was avenged, for the
star of the Pandemonium set in disgrace and
disaster, and shares were to be had for the
asking.

He was now, however, a fact and a potential
one. At his beck and call, prudent
steady financiers, hard-headed city men, who
wouldn't spring a " fiver" to save you or me,
gentle reader, from perdition, were ready to
invest their thousands.

Curled darlings, under the spell of some
Circe of the demi-monde, came and offered
him the run of their banking accounts, on condition
that their divinities should be privileged
to disport themselves, coram populo, in
the costume of Eve in the Garden of Eden ;
and ultimately, under the spell of this potent
magician's wand, up sprang the Megatherium,
the Frivolity, and the Electric Spark.

Over all these important establishments he
presided with enterprise and liberality.

He was wise in his generation, and fully

impressed with the great practical fact that
the customers he catered for wanted to be
amused, and that they objected to be bored
above all, to be sermonized.

(< People who want sermons," said he tome
one night, over a cigar, " can get any
quantity of them ready made (in fact, the
other day I had a hundred of 'em offered mein
MS. in a slum near Lincoln's Inn at two
bob a dozen !) and if they are not hot enough
at the old-established shop, which has secured
the monopoly of the Government-patent for
the manufacture thereof, they can be had
fifty degrees hotter at the Tabernacle, and if
Surgeon and Spitfire ain't spicy enough,
why there's Voysey and Virtue at St. George's,
and Bradlaugh and Blasphemy at the Hall of
Science. Anyhow, it's no good coming to
my shop for 'em, because I don't deal in the
article."

Evidently he knows exactly what his public
requires, and is determined they shall have

it ; hence he devotes his energies entirely to
the production of that gorgeous and glittering
galli maury of tinfoil and trumpery — ballet
and buffoonery — which has earned for him
his present stupendous and wide-world reputation.


Once, at a tete-astute dinner, when we had
reached the walnuts and the wine, I incautiously
said something about his bete noire
Shakespere, and he let out thus —

Look here, old man, if this precious
Bard of yours is right in saying, ' The object
of the stage is to hold as 'twere the mirror
up to nature — to show the very age and body
of the time, its form and pressure,' why
then his ' object ' is identical with mine,
and both our games ( is plunder.' I ( hold
the mirror up to nature,' and a good deal of
it real, live, human nature, and I show as
much as I dare in paris naturalists, while as
for ' the very age and body of the time,' ' its

form and pressure ' can only be seen at my
show. My public don't believe in your Bard,
and to tell you the truth, I don't. I prefer
Boucicault, or Byron, any day in the week.

Precisely ! I know what you are going
to say — the Bard may be l for all time
but the present time is good enough forme
— in fact, this is the time. I know
something about this time. And I know
nothing about the other — and, entre nous, I
don't think that the other chaps who talk so
much about it do either !

As for High Art — In the name of the
prophet, bosh, with a big B !

ft Will High Art keep you and me when
we are old and hungry out of the workhouse ?

Once upon a time a certain ferocious ,
who on the strength of his truculent
manners and unintelligible English posed
himself as a prophet and a philosopher, fulminated
the sapient dictum— ' In this village there
are between four and five millions of people,

principally fools.' Of course there are, and
he was the biggest fool of the lot. Shall
not the fool be fed according to his folly ?
1 Let me play the fool ; with mirth and
laughter let old wrinkles come though I
prefer dimples — decidedly dimples, with a
big D!

Now don't look so ferociously virtuous my
good fellow. ' Dost thou think, because thou
art virtuous, there shall be no more cakes and
ale ? Yes, by St. Anne, and ginger shall be
hot i' the mouth, too.' Pass the claret, dear
boy, and have another weed ! "

So far as the u fools " aforementioned
were concerned, no man had a more outspoken
contempt for them than Clerehead.

I remember once being present at a grand
spread at the Star and Garter, given by a
noble booby, who invited a crowd of youthful
swells of both sexes to meet us.

When the ladies had left the table, our

noble host, a creature with the head of a snipe
and the legs of a stork, but nevertheless heir
to a hundred earls, said —

I say, old chappie, you might take us round
tomorrow night, and introduce a fella to Lofty
Tottam — you understand ? "

Perfectly," said Clerehead, looking rather
ugly.

That's right; you're a brick! 'Pon my
soul we're awfully obliged to you for what
you've done for art."

Indeed ! " (grimly).

Ya-as — been myself thirty-six times to
hear Gringag sing that wonderful song with the
donkey chorus in ' The Donkey Driver of the
Don.' "

Have you really ? " (sarcastically).

Ya-as, really."

Then that accounts for your being such a
d — d ass yourself ! " retorted James, amidst
a roar of laughter, in which the noble idiot
joined from the wrong side of his mouth.

As we drove home I ventured to remonstrate
with Clerehead as to the good taste of
this retort.

Taste be blanked' he replied. " Omelettes
can't be made without smashing eggs,
and brains won't mix with batter."

It was seldom that anyone got the laugh of
the gentle James. His motto was "Nemo
me impute lacessit," and it was a bad lookout
for anyone who fell foul of him.

He used to meet his former chums of the
press-gang, at a Bohemian Club they frequented,
or elsewhere, and talk pleasantly
enough about old times. They could have
stalls and boxes galore (especially when
business was bad), or guineas, if any old
pal " was hard up ; but when they began
to air their superior knowledge, especially,
when they wanted to teach him how to conduct
his theatres, he would shut them up
with —

Stow that ! Stick to your trade, old
man, and leave me to mine. I work my show
on commercial principles ; perhaps I make a
mull now and then, but that's my look-out,
not yours. If I break my crockery, I don't
ask you to pay for it. Any man who tries to
upset my apple-cart gets one for his nob, if I
can give it. There, I hope that's plain English
! "

One modest youth, who had just emerged
from behind a counter, and who by some mysterious
influence had become the critic (save
the mark!) of the " Daily Deluder," once
began to prate about his " mission."
Clerehead cut him short with —
Your mission is to write half a column of
bad English three times a week, at ' tuppence '
aline. If you don't behave yourself, I'll send
one of the lads from my office to do it in good
English, for half the money. My good young
man, go and teach your grandmother to suck

eggs, but don't you try that game with James
Clerehead. I've been in the business myself,
and know exactly what it's worth."

The old hands knew he was a dangerous
customer, and gave him a wide berth ; but
11 fools rush in where angels fear to tread,"
and occasionally some indiscreet youngster
would flourish his " tea-board thunder " in
his face. Then woe betide the luckless
wight, for practical James had a pen like a
scalping knife ; he would ridicule, vilify, and
slaughter his unfortunate opponent. Then
(figuratively of course) he would take the
wretched victim by the neck and shake him
as a terrier does a rat, then having turned the
poor d — 1 inside out, having impaled him like
a cockchafer on a pin's point, the next time
they met he would smile blandly, and say —

Thanks, dear boy, that notice of yours
enabled me to get two hundred ' quid ' worth
of advertisements for ' nix,' and gave a great

fillip to the business ; did a power of good.
Have a soda and b, eh ? "

He was — as who is not ? — a mass of contradictions.
Try to " do " him in a bargain, and
he was a Shylock ; meet him fairly, he was a
prince ; scratch him, he was a ruffian ; smooth
him down, he was a gentleman.

He realized in a remarkable manner the
presence of a "soul" (not that he himself
believed in anything so material or so stupidly
commonplace !) " of goodness in things evil."

He was easy, affable, approachable ; gave
himself no airs, never forgot old friends. In
money matters he was liberal, and his word
was as good as his bond. He did many unostentatiously
generous and charitable things,
and I had reason to know afterwards, that in
many cases of this kind, he took care that his
right hand should not know what his left hand
did.

Thou art my lodestar and my queen ; to thee
The current of my life sets endlessly,
Tho' all unheeded the poor offering be."

One afternoon, during our short vacation,
while strolling down Bond Street, in my
usual desultory way, I came across a genial
and jovial Irishman, editor of a fashionable
morning paper.

I had met him only once or twice before in
Clerehead's sanctum.

He was giving a dinner party that night ;
lots of nice people would be there. Would I
come ? At seven sharp ! "

I accepted the invitation, only too glad to
look forward to the prospect of anything that
would take me a little out of myself.

At half-past six I called a hansom, and
bowled down to Brimstone Square, arriving
punctually at seven. On being shown into
the drawing-room not a human being was
visible. An awful solemn silence reigned
around. A quarter of an hour passed —
another ; still no sign of life.

The evening papers I had read, unfortunately,
but I began to count the advertisements.


Another quarter of an hour.

Had I come to the wrong house? No;
here was the card, " No. 17."

I nervously examined the photographic
albums.

Had my friend made a mistake, or had I ?

Another quarter of an hour, and then, thank
goodness, Mr D — entered with a gush of
bonhomie and Irish hospitality. He had made

a slight mistake. Mrs. D — had told him
that the dinner was at eight for half-past, instead
of seven.

By-and-bye people began to drop in. I
was introduced here, there, and everywhere.

At length dinner was announced. I was
deputed to convey downstairs a very charming
lady of fair complexion, mature years, and
majestic proportions. We were introduced
in the usual vague and indistinct manner, so
that I didn't catch my fair companion's name;
but she caught mine, for she accosted me by
it. She not only knew my name, but seemed
to know me and all my friends of the Great
Northern Circuit, and was never weary of
hearing me talk about them.

The time passed all too quickly. Just
before breaking up I asked my host who my
fair friend was. He said — " Faith, I thought
you knew that, my boy. Sure it's Mrs. Le
Blanc, the celebrated novelist."

When we were exchanging our adieux, as

VOL. II. H

Mrs. Le Blanc gave me her card, she said —
Mr. Penarvon, if you are not afraid of two
poor lonely women, I shall be delighted to
see you at my little cottage in the Regent's
Park. Name your own time, and come and
dine with us en famille. You shall be welcome.
You need not be alarmed about the
other lady ; she is as harmless as myself."

Madam," I replied, " you do me too much
honour. It is for you to name the time, and
I shall be delighted to avail myself of your
hospitality."

Very well," said she ; " suppose we say
Sunday next. At seven, mind. Don't make
any mistake this time."

"I am not likely," said I, " with such a
pleasant prospect before me. But may 1 be
permitted to enquire who the other lady is ?"

Certainly you may be permitted to enquire,
but I may be permitted to decline
telling you. No, no, Mr. Penarvon, exercise
your imagination until Sunday ; it will be

occupation for the mind. Ait revoir." And
so we parted.

For the remainder of the week I kept
thinking who could the other lady be. Could
it be — ? Oh, no ; that was impossible.

At last, Sunday came, and punctual to the
moment I presented myself at Florence Villa,
where I received a hearty welcome from Mrs.
Le Blanc. The bad quarter of an hour before
dinner passed away pleasantly enough ; still,
no sign of the " other lady." Could my fair
hostess have been playing a practical joke on
me ?

At last we heard the gong. " Mr. Pearson,
will you give me your arm ? '' said Mrs.
Le Blanc. And down we went.

The dining-room was one of those large
rooms divided in the centre by elegant but
heavy porters, which on this occasion were
closed. Still no sign. I noticed, however,
that the table was laid for three. I was

sitting down, somewhat disappointed, for I
had hoped — yes, I ■ —

All at once I heard another loud stroke of
the gong, and then a well-known voice exclaimed
— " Hey, Presto ! Light the Red
Fire ! Open, Sesame ! "

The curtains flew open, and She stood
before me, more beautiful than ever !

She laughed — oh ! how she laughed — she
extended both her dainty hands to me, and
nearly rung mine off in the effusiveness of
her welcome. " So, traitor," she said, " what's
this I hear ? You've been making a conquest
of Mrs. Le Blanc. Hands off ! — she's my
property. Are you not, Laura dear ? But
come to dinner. Have a glass of wine?
Usually we have two mutton chops and
drink nothing stronger than claret and water
■ — Gilbey's, a shilling a bottle — but in honour
of your coming, sir, we have killed the fatted
calf. Voila I Soup, turbot, ducks and green
peas, an apple tart and a custard, which I

have made myself, remembering — you great
baby ! — how fond of sweets you are.

Laura has brought up from her own particular
wine-bin in the cellaret a pint of the real
supernaculum, and I've provided a bottle of
Roederer. Oh ! the dear, dear old times !
I'm so glad to see you again, Bob."

Yes, she actually called me Bob.

You called me ' Bob,' " said I.

Did I ? " she replied gravely.

11 Yes. You never called me ' Bob' before.
It would make me so happy if you would call
me ' Bob ' always."

Then I will, only I suppose I may
sometimes call you ( Robert ' by way of
variety ? "

I thought " Robert " sounded even nicer
than " Bob," though I was too cute to
say so.

What a delightful evening it was !

She talked about everything and for everybody,

but always harked back to Rosemount
and the Theatre House. She inquired about
every member of the company, from the
highest to the lowest, except Herbert and
Miss Challoner ; and once, when I mentioned
his name, a flush came over her face, and
she remained silent.

I didn't recur to the subject.

Mrs. Le Blanc went to the piano and sang,
in a magnificent contralto, " Annie Laurie."
When she had finished Clara went to her
harp, on which she played divinely, and sang
The Minstrel Boy" with a spirit which
lifted " us all. And oh ! what a picture she
made with her superb arms and her lovely
neck as she swept the strings of the harp.
This was a new accomplishment. Delighted
as I was with it, I was still more so when shew
r went to the piano and recited Mrs. Browning's
" Lady Geraldine's Courtship," with a
heavenly accompaniment. And I found the

tears trickling down my cheeks, like the great
moon-calf that I was.

She sat still for a moment or two, and then
sprang up and said —

Do you know, Bob, I haven't had a dance
since papa took me to the ball at Rosemount,
the night of the rejoicing when the Prince
was there. Granny, play us the ' Blue
Danube,' there's an old darling."

She kissed Mrs. Le Blanc, and dragged her
over to the piano.

"Now, Bob," she continued, "give me a
waltz, sir," and in an instant we were gliding
round the room, she in my arms, and I — in
heaven.

Our hostess was most charming, and tonight
at any rate the best listener in the
world.

The brightest things must end, and my
watch warned me that I must get to the York

and Albany if I meant to catch the last
bus."

Am I ever to come again? " said I.

Ever to come again ? Of course you
are," replied Clara. " You are to come to
dinner every Sunday until further notice ;
isn't he, granny ? "

Yes, my child."

And whenever you can get a night's holiday,
and a private box for a premiere, mind
you are to take us poor forlorn women to the
play ; and, as we scorn to be under an obligation,
you provide the box and we provide the
cab, so that's quits. Bye, bye, Mr. — "

"Bob," said I.

11 Well, Bob then."

When I got to the York and Albany it was
too late for the " bus," but what did that
matter? I had seen her, had held her in my
arms, had inhaled her fragrant breath.

As I leaped along upon my poor game leg,

I did not feel my feet touch the ground till I

reached the Strand.

'* A lover may bestride the gossamer
That idles in the wanton summer air,
And yet not fall, so light is vanity."

After that night, six days — six weary days
and six wakeful nights. Would Sunday
never come again ?

I counted the days, then I counted the
hours, till it did come at last.

Six days in the week I vegetated, on the
seventh I lived.

Rare old George Herbert says or sings —

Sundays the pillars are
On which Heaven's palace arched lies,
The other days fill up the space
And hollow rooms with vanities."

How truly these lines describe my life at
this time.

The dear old man says further on —

M On Sunday Heaven's gate stands ope,
Blessings are plentiful and rife ;
More rife than hope."

Blessings were plentiful and rife " to me,
on this blessed day, for many a week to come.

Sunday succeeded Sunday, and I still
found a cordial welcome at Florence Villa.

Suddenly, however, I began to note a
change in Clara.

She became capricious, fractious, especially
immediately previous to the commencement
of the season at the Great
International.

The opening piece was a horrible abortion,
in which she had a detestable part to play, a
loathsome adventuress, who goes on the
town, or some abomination of the kind.

On one particular Sunday I found her
reading a famous weekly theatrical journal.
She pointed to an advertisement, and hissed
through her teeth —

Look there ! Read ! "

I took the paper, and saw the following
announcement —

The Eminent Tragedian,

MR. JOHN HERBERT,

Assisted by

MISS CAROLINE Shallower,

Will commence his tour early in August at the

THEATRE ROYAL, Marlborough.

Repertoire : " Hamlet," " Othello," u Romeo and
Juliet"' " Lady of Lyons," " Ingomar," and " School for
Scandal."

When I had read in silence, she exclaimed
—

That creature plays with him all my
parts — mine ! — Ophelia, Desdemona, Juliet,
Pauline, Parthenon, and Lady Teazle — while
I am condemned to this garbage. But I
won't. No ! I won't do it to save the theatre
from perdition. There ! There ! " And in
her anger she stamped her little feet, as she
tore her part in the new piece to fragments >
and threw them into the fire.

Forty-eight hours later it was all over
London that she had thrown up her part
and relinquished her engagement — that she
would be amerced in heavy damages, &c.

Up to this moment I had dared to think —
now that Herbert was irrevocably engaged to
Caroline — there might be some chance for me.

Alas ! I had built my hopes on sand.

CHAPTER I.

THE FIRE.

While clamour awaking roars up thro' the street,,
What a hell vapour bursting thro' night is fleet,
And higher — and higher
Aloft soars the Column of Fire ! "

As soon as Herbert began to act my prognostications
were but too fatally fulfilled.

The scoundrels who had induced him to
renew his liabilities only awaited the first
opportunity to open fire on him.

His tour commenced at Hillsborough.

The opening play was " The Lady of
Lyons."

At the very moment he was speaking his
first line to the peasants outside, " What —
what — you won't come in, my friends ? " he
was pounced upon, not figuratively, but
literally, by a brace of bailiffs.

In this instance, these limbs of the law
had reckoned without their host — for a pair
of vigorous back-handers sent them sprawling,
while the gallant Claude bounded on the
stage amidst the plaudits of the audience.

When he had settled down to the business
of the scene, to his horror he found his two
friends grimly mounting guard in the first
entrance on each side of the stage.
Presently they vanished as suddenly as they
had appeared. And when he had finished
the act they had disappeared altogether.

This is how that miraculous exit was
effected : — Behind the scenes was a distinguished
London actress, an old friend — some

said an old flame — of Herbert's, who had
calleth to see him in passing through the
town. This lady held a rapid council of war
with Caroline and the lady who played
Madame Deschapelles, the result being that
amongst them the dear creatures contributed
a diamond necklace, a massive jewelled bracelet,
and a valuable ring. Then this good
Samaritan called the bailiffs aside, smoothed
their ruffled susceptibilities with a tip, in the
shape of a sovereign, handed them the jewellery
as a security, and made an appointment
for them to call on Herbert at his hotel the
next day.

When the limbs of the law turned up at
breakfast time he, of course, redeemed the
jewellery, and returned them to his fair
friends. Grateful, however, as he was for
their kindness, he didn't feel his position in
the affair a very dignified one.

This sort of thing could not go on for ever,

and at last it came to a climax on his first
night at the next town. He opened at
Kingston in " Hamlet." There was a great
house, and he had a tremendous " reception."
The play progressed with increasing interest
until the fourth scene, when Hamlet, bursting
from his friends, follows the ghost off the
stage, exclaiming — il I say, away ! Go on.
Til follow thee ! "

For a moment a pin might have been heard
to drop ; then came a torrent of applause
which seemed as if it would never cease.

At length, however, the scene drew off,
discovering the Ghost of Hamlet's father on
the ramparts of the castle of Elsinore ; but
the Prince himself was conspicuous by his
absence. The " buried majesty of Denmark,"
beckoned somewhat impatiently to his
tardy son," but he beckoned in vain, for at
this juncture the act-drop descended, to the
astonishment of everybody.

After some delay the manager came forward

and said : " Ladies and gentlemen, — I
regret to have to inform you that Mr. Herbert
has been this moment arrested for debt,
and it is impossible for him to continue the
performance ; but with your permission that
great popular favourite, Mr. Rowland Bland,
who has already distinguished himself so
highly by his rendition of the ghost, will act
the remainder of the part of ' Hamlet.' "

This proposal evoked a yell of dissent, and
with one voice the audience roared out —
No, no ! Herbert, or our money ! Off !
off!"

At this very moment there issued from
behind the scenes a sound like the roar of
a cannon or the explosion of an infernal
machine. It was an infernal machine indeed.

In order to cast a sepulchral glimmer on the
ghost's face the management had recourse to
an ingenious contrivance adapted for the year
one, but nevertheless in use in this London of

VOL. II. I

ours to this day in nearly every theatre at the
West End.

This is a limelight apparatus consisting of
certain india-rubber bags, and boards and
weights, liable to be deranged or to burst at
any moment.

On this occasion, while his principal
mounted guard over the door of Herbert's
dressing-room, the bailiff's assistant, who
was " three sheets in the wind," must needs
go poking his nose behind the scenes to get
a peep at the play. In the semi-darkness
this drunken idiot stumbled over the gas
bags and upset the weights, causing an
explosion which extinguished every gas light
in the building and scattered the unfortunate
wretch's limbs in every direction !

Appalled by the sound of the report and
the sudden and total darkness, the audience
remained awe-stricken and silent, till the act
drop gradually became transparent, and was

illuminated by a light which flickered and
floated until at length it leaped up into a
sheet of flame.

At the sight a clamour of voices arose
yelling out " Fire ! "

At that awful sound the multitude was
convulsed with terror. A rush was made for
the doors, which were immediately choked up
so as to render exit impossible.

Then came an unreasoning panic, which
ended in a riot, in which men, women, and
children were disabled and seriously injured,
or half-suffocated, while a woman and child
were actually trampled to death.

While these horrors were going on in front,
behind the scenes there was a general
stampede.

Herbert was preparing to undress (he had
dispensed with his valet ever since the
bankruptcy) at the very moment when the

cry of " fire " rang through the building. At
that sound the bailiff turned tail and bolted ;
but Herbert darted out of the room and demanded
from the rabble rout of carpenters,
property men, supers, fiddlers, &c, who were
endeavouring to escape —

Where does Miss Challoner dress ? "
There ! There ! Second flight, sir,
O.P.," cried one of the men, indicating the
opposite side of the stage, which was already
enveloped in a dense mass of smoke.

His own safety was certain, for the stage
door, half-a-dozen paces off, was wide open.

On one side was life ; on the other —
possibly, perhaps, certainly — death. He
did not hesitate even for an instant.

"Psha! What is life without her?" he
exclaimed, as he dashed through the smoke
and up the stairs, calling, " Carry ! Carry !
take courage, I'm coming, darling, I'm coming
! "

Groping his way in the darkness he found
the dressing-room door fastened. Flinging
his broad shoulders against it he burst it
open. Fortunately a pair of wax candles
were still burning on the dressing table. By
the dim light he saw Caroline on the floor
half suffocated, and wholly senseless.

Rapidly tearing off his robe, and folding it
carefully round her head and neck, he cast
her over his shoulders, and rushed headlong
down the stairs.

As he reached the first landing, the lower
flight (which was of wood) crumbled into
tinder and collapsed beneath his feet.

With the instinct of self-preservation he
recoiled from the gulf below, and extending
his hand to prevent his falling, as Providence
would have it, he caught hold of a thick rope.

With the rapidity of lightning, he remembered
that he had observed that very morning
an ingenious contrivance for lowering scenery,
consisting of a huge rope passing through

iron pulleys above, and counter-weighted
below, which reached from the " flies " to
the stage.

Clutching the rope with his right hand, he
leaped with his precious burden into the void
beyond, and fortunately alighted in safety on
the stage.

Rushing forward amidst the blinding smoke,
he came full butt against the wall opposite.
Fortunately her head was cast over his
shoulder in the opposite direction, else she
must have been killed by the shock.

Gracious God!" he exclaimed, "are we
caught in a death-trap after all ? "

Hark! Hark!

He hears the dull thud of the pumping of
the engine.

The flames leap forth, above, below,
around. Through the smoke and the murk
he catches a glimpse of the open space
beyond.

In a voice, which rises trumpet-tongued
above the din, above the clamour, above
the rattle of the engines, above the infernal
roar of the flames he shouts —

Without there ! Stand clear of the
door!"

The engines cease to beat. All hearts
stand still.

Amidst the silence he grips his teeth
like a vice, and nerves himself for a supreme
effort.

God give him strength !

It is done — they are out — out in the open
and there — illumined by the glare of
light from the burning ruins — dilated almost
to a supernatural height — his dress torn to
tatters — his hair dishevelled — his eyes
aflame — there he stands, that once was
Hamlet. And there at his feet lies a fair,
frail creature, clad in white. Yes — there she
lies — she that was Ophelia !

The silence bursts into speech — like a
thunderstorm ! The roar of ten thousand
voices ascends in one acclaim to Heaven !

Again ! and yet again ! and still again !

He sees her — he hears them, the rest is
chaos !

KISMET.

I behold him in my dreams,
Gaunt, as it were the shadow of himself —
Death pale for lack of gentle maidens' aid."

I WAS present at the production of the new
play at the Great International.

It was a terrible fiasco, and met with
prompt and righteous condemnation.

As I glanced over the criticisms next
morning, I caught sight in the next column
of an account of the awful occurrence at
Kingstown the night before.

Without a moment's delay I telegraphed

(dating from Florence Villa) to Vanstone,
the manager, requesting to know the worst
about Caroline and Herbert — then hastily
swallowing a cup of coffee, I sprang into a
cab, and drove to Florence Villa.

On my way it occurred to me —

Does she know it already? If she
doesn't, what's the use of my seeing her
until I have an answer to my telegram?
Besides, perhaps I may have good news ! "

While I was hesitating, to my astonishment,
out came Clara herself — radiant as
Hebe.

We met face to face.

Why what good wind has blown you here
so early ? " she enquired.

I — oh — I came to tell you about the new
piece at the ' International ' last night."

That's just what was taking me out.
That stupid boy hasn't brought our Morning
Post yet. He's always serving us that way.

I'm going to the shop to expend a shilling in
all the dailies — but you can walk with me and
tell me the news as we go along."

You may save your shilling," said I; "the
piece isn't worth it. It was an ( awful frost.'
'Twas ' goosed ' at the beginning, and the
poor people concerned were pelted at the
end."

Then you see I was well out of it —
but come in, and let us hear the ' atrocious
particulars.' " And so we returned to the
house.

Fortunately Mrs. Le Blanc was there to
help me, or how I should have got through
my task I can't imagine. I don't know to
this day how I managed to get it out, or
what I said.

Clara stood and listened with her eyes
fixed and her face white as death, while she
held her hat in her hand and crushed it to
pulp as she muttered —

And it was for her — for her."

At this moment a double knock was heard.
I rushed to the door, and brought in the
telegram, which I rapidly tore open. At a
glance she comprehended the situation.

Not dead ! Say that ! " she cried.

"No," I said, " not dead."

Thank God ! " she exclaimed.

She staggered back, and appeared about
to fall. I moved towards her, but she drew
herself up quickly, and said —

11 It's nothing, thank you ; I'm quite well.
Let me see the telegram."

She took it ; scanned it in a strange
manner, and returned it, abruptly saying —

I can't make it out. Read it, please."

I read aloud —

Miss Challoner suffering from severe
shock, otherwise unhurt. Herbert dangerously,
but not fatally, injured. At present,
quite unconscious. Doctor gives hopes of
recovery."

She muttered between her closed teeth, as
if quite unconscious of our presence —

She is unhurt, of course — of course ;
while he — "

Mrs. Le Blanc whispered me —

Go, Robert ; leave her to me. Come
to-night; she will be better then."

Without another word I took my leave.
My own suffering taught me to sympathise
with hers.

My first idea was to go to Jack at once.

As soon as I saw Clerehead, I asked leave
of absence for a few days, but was met with
a prompt and decided refusal.

To be just to him, I could not be spared
a day, scarcely an hour, from the theatre.

The fact was, I had tried my hand at
authorship, and my maiden effort, (< Orpheus
in Hades," was now in active preparation.

Neither trouble nor expense had been
spared upon it. Rehearsals were going on

incessantly. I had to look after scene
painters, carpenters, property men, costumes,
and my absence would be fatal to the
success of the production.

My finances were in anything but a flourishing
condition, so I borrowed ten pounds from
Van Vort — who was awfully cut up about
Herbert — and forwarded it, with ten pounds
of my own, to Winston, desiring him to see
that Jack and Caroline wanted for nothing,
and begging him to let me know how they
were getting on. My letter was directed to
Kingstown Theatre, but, as I subsequently
learnt, it miscarried through the destruction
of the theatre, and a month later it was
returned to me through the Dead-Letter
Office.

To make matters worse, Clerehead had
engaged some s t ar f the Music Halls for
Orpheus. The new importation proved to bea
rank " duffer," and we did not know whereto

turn for an eligible substitute. Really,
what with one trouble and another, I was not
in a very enviable state of mind.

What idiocy prompted me to tell Forehead
that Clara was ill, and to give him her
address, I don't know, but I did tell him,
nevertheless, and, while I was occupied with
the rehearsals, he called at Florence Villa
daily, made all kinds of polite inquiries, left
baskets of fruits and heaps of flowers, and
by the end of the week had quite established
himself upon terms of friendly intimacy.

T managed to get half an hour every night
to run up and see how she was getting on,
but found her very much altered ; when she
was not moody she was hysterical, indeed at
times she was half demented.

On Saturday there was a change for the
better, and she appeared quite calm and collected.
When I was making my adieux she
said, u Mind you come to dinner tomorrow ;

we've asked Mr. Clerehead to join us, so be
sure to bring him with you. Ta-ta ! "

On Sunday Clerehead called at my
chambers and drove me to Florence Villa.

When we arrived, Clara was so occupied in
studying a Bradshaw that for a moment she
was oblivious of our presence. When at last
she saw us, she appeared embarrassed, and
thrust the book aside. Immediately recollecting
herself, she shook hands with me in
silence, and welcomed Clerehead with effusion,
thanking him for his fruit and flowers.

She had never been more demonstratively
agreeable than on this occasion. She sang
her choicest songs to her own accompaniment
on the harp, she rattled off Edgar Allan
Poe's " Bells, " and she gave forth these verbal
fireworks with a perfect coruscation of chords
and arpegios.

Clerehead was as much impressed with her
beauty as her ability. No wonder, for she

was very affable and communicative to him ;
but whenever I made the slightest effort to
get into confidential conversation with her
she avoided me.

At last came the time for our departure.
Clerehead said all kinds of pleasant things,
and bowed himself out.

I longed to get in a last word alone, so
when I saw Mrs. Le Blanc bidding him goodnight,
I whispered —

Miss Trevor."

61 Well, Mr. Penarvon?"

You've never called me ( Bob ' once tonight."


Haven't I, Robert?"

Ah ! that's nice. I hope you'll continue
to get strong."

II Oh ! I'm strong enough now. But what
says the Prince of Denmark ? — ' Thou would'st
not think how ill all's here about my heart.' "
" Nay — "

VOL. II. K

' 'Tis but foolery, but it is such a kind of
gainsaying as would perhaps trouble a woman.'
Good-bye, Bob."

No, not ' good-bye '— ' good-night.' "
Now then, Penarvon," Clerehead sang
out, " are you going to be all night making
your adieux? The horse is getting chilled.
That's right. Ladies, I kiss your hands. Off
we go."

Puffing away at his cigar in a brown study,
he said after a time —

That's a monstrous fine woman, Pearson."


Who ? Mrs. Le Blanc ? "

Mrs. Le Blanc be — Blanked. You know
who I mean, you old humbug ! I never saw
such eyes, such hair, such arms, and such a
neck in my life ! What a splendid piece of
furniture for a man's fireside ! Are you very
much ' gone ' on her ? "

"I— I— "

Is she very much ' gone ' on you ? "

I don't know. I think — I think — "

"Oh! you ( think do you? Well, if it
has gone no further than that, you're a muff !

u Robert Penarvon, do you know to have
a woman like that call me husband I'd give
up the Frivolity, the Megatherium, the
Electric Spark, and all the Lottys and Tottys
that ever walked on two legs ! "

"Would you really?"

Yes, really ; and what's more if it wasn't
for—"

Well, if it wasn't for what ? "

Never you mind, that's my business.
There's a skeleton in every closet, but I keep
mine locked in my own cupboard ! Have a
weed?"

No, thanks."

A dead silence ensued till he dropped meat
my chambers, then he said —

Look here, old man, I was cranky just

now. Shake hands ; you're a lucky fellow,

if you've only pluck. Strike while the iron's

hot. You're nearer the goal than you think ;

don't waste a moment. Remember —

1 He that will not when he may,
When he will, he shall have nay.'

Think of that ! "

I did think of it all night, and never closed
my eyes.

I thought of it all next day.

During the entire rehearsal every note the

band played seemed to shape itself into —

He that will not when he may,
When he will, he shall have nay."

That night I rattled up to Florence Villa ina
hansom, determined to brave my fate and
know the worst.

As I reached the door my cab almost came
in contact with another, which drove up
from an opposite direction. As I sprang out
of the one, Mrs. Le Blanc alighted from the
other.

She had gone down to Lavender Sweep to
pass the day with some friends, and had only
that moment returned.

We had barely time to exchange the usual
salutations, when the servant opened the door.

How is Miss Trevor?" I enquired.

She is gone, sir," the girl replied.

Gone ! " I exclaimed.

"Gone?" echoed Mrs. Le Blanc.

Yes, i'm ; she left half an hour after you
went this morning, and she bade me give
you this."

Mrs. Le Blanc read the note, and gave it tome
without a word.

It ran thus —

You shall hear from me by-and-bye. Tell
poor Bob I'm sorry for him, but I can't help
it. It is ' Kismet! ' "

THE LILY AND THE ROSE.

u All days are night to me, till thee I see,
And nights bright days, when dreams do show me thee.' r

BESIDES being nearly suffocated Caroline
had sustained a severe shock, but beyond
that, thanks to Herbert's precautions, she
was unhurt.

He, himself, had suffered severely ; his
arms, hands, and chest were dreadfully
scorched, his hair was all destroyed ;
his face, however, had fortunately escaped,
owing, so the doctor said, to its having been

coated with a German pigment, which he had
used for his ( make-up ' in Hamlet.

For many days he lay between life and
death.

His misfortunes and his helpless condition
one would have thought might have entitled
him to sympathy and commiseration —

From brassy bosoms, and rough hearts of flint ; "
but, alas ! he had to deal with a bill-discounted
!

The High Bailiff of Kingstown communicated
with this scoundrel, after the fire,
requesting further instructions.

He got them in one brief line —

Take the money, or take him."

As Herbert was utterly unconscious it was
useless to trouble him. It was generally
known, however, that Caroline was engaged
to him ; so, as soon as the bailiff ascertained
that she was visible, in fact, the Monday
after the fire, the very day the poor girl got
up from her sick bed, he called upon her at

her lodgings, and explained his position with
as much delicacy as he could. He alleged
that his instructions were imperative. He
must have Herbert or the money. Touched
by her grief and prostration, and heartily
sympathizing both with her and Herbert, the
poor fellow burst out —

Those blooming bill-discounting thieves
have got no bowels, saving your presence,
miss. But what's a fellow to do who's got a
wife and seven kids to keep out of this
beastly business ? I shall have to take Mr.
Herbert when he gets better, or part with
the coin myself; and help me never, I'd
rather do that, if I could afford it, than see a
beautiful young filly and a real lady like
you turning on the waterworks like that !
Don't you cry, my pretty — I beg pardon,
lady — but look here ! It's only a hundred
quid, costs and all. If you can squeeze
half on it, I'll manage the other half myself,

and trust to Mr. Herbert's honour to make it
square when he gets on his pins again ! "

Alas ! if my life depended on it," she
replied, " I have barely got half fifty pounds,
and I must keep that for his sake."

What ! no bits of jewellery, nor no little
nicknames ? "

The whole of my stage wardrobe was
destroyed in the fire'' she replied. " Except
the contents of one small portmanteau, I
have nothing in the world. As for my
jewellery, this is all I have left," and she
showed him her engagement ring, her locket,
and a small Geneva watch, which had been
her mother's.

It's a bad job, miss," said the bailiff,
"and I'm very sorry, but they shan't touch
him till he's all right, jigger me if they shall.
P'raps somewhat '11 turn up 'twixt this and
then ! " And the poor fellow bowed himself
out.

For an hour or more she sat alone and
ruminated.

When the doctor came she asked for his
bill and paid it, then requested him to show
her to Herbert's hotel.

The poor fellow was still quite unconscious,
but was still continually muttering her name
in his delirium.

You can leave us," said the doctor to
the nurse.

"Will — will it prove fatal, doctor?" inquired
Caroline.

No," he replied, " thank God ! No fear
of that. Mr. Herbert has led a temperate
life, and has a constitution of iron. If it were
not for that he would have been a dead man
long before this."

How long will it be before he gets well,,
do you think ?"

Almost three months."

Thank you. I should like to sit by him
an hour or two."

Glad to leave him in such safe hands. I
know you will take care of him."

Trust me for that ! " she replied, and the
doctor left the room.

Poor Jack ! Poor old darling ! " she exclaimed.
u And it was all for me — for me !
But the doctor said ' three months.' My
God ! how are we to exist for three months ? "

At this moment the door was violently
flung open, and a great, vulgar, shrewish
woman, a perfect mountain of flesh, came in
and planted herself in a chair with a '* squash )}
that shook the room.

So," said she, without ceremony, " you're
yon chap's missus," indicating Herbert.

I don't understand you, madam," replied
Caroline.

Don't madam me, you stuck-up thing. If
you ain't his missus, you ought to be. I know
the ways of you play-acting folk. It's no use
your given' yourself fine lady airs with me.

What I want to know is this. Who's a-going'
to pay me my money ? That's about the
size of it."

Give yourself no apprehension — "

I don't want no apprehension. I want
my brass, and I mean to have it. There's
welly twenty pounds a-comin'' to me, and if I
don't get it, out he goes like a shot into t'
street, or t' wurkus — there's no two ways
about that."

Make out your bill at once — at once, do
you hear, woman ? " said Caroline, pointing
to the door.

This display of spirit frightened .the creature
a little, so she got up and said —

I didn't want to be uncivil, miss. I only
wants my rights."

"And I only want your bill," replied
Caroline.

With a vicious glare the virago quitted the
room.

Good God ! what's to become of him? "
exclaimed Caroline. " Oh ! my darling, I
think I could sell myself body and soul for
you — but to stay here and see you starve !
No ! I mustn't do that ! "

At her chatelaine she carried a small black
velvet bag, mounted with silver. Emptying
its contents on the dressing table she began
to eagerly count the money which lay before
her. It amounted to eighteen pounds and
some odd pence. By this time the landlady
returned, and with a grunt flung the bill on
the table. It came to seventeen pounds and
some odd shillings.

Perhaps you'll be kind enough to receipt
it," said Caroline.

Where's t' brass?"

Here."

Hand it over, then."

When you have prepared the receipt."

You're mighty particular."

In dealing with a person like you it is
necessary to be particular."

Like me, indeed ! There's t' receipt."

And there is the money."

Without another word the harpy swept the
coin into her apron and waddled out of the
room, banging the door after her.

With the addition of some loose silver in
her purse, Caroline found she had about
fifteen shillings left.

11 Let me see," she said, " three pounds at
my lodgings ; a pound for the nurse, a
pound for my fare to London, a pound for
cabs and other trifles."

She sat ruminating for a while, then took
off her watch and chain, looked at them, and
said with a sad smile —

We never thought it would come to this,
mamma. Did we ?"

<( Ah! well never mind; if there were
nothing worse to fear than this."

Hastily slipping on her coat and hat she
passed forth into the street.

After some time she found what she
sought ; but as she had never been in such
a place before, she hesitated for a moment or
two, before she entered the shop.

A thin, elderly man was on the other side
of the counter, on which she placed her
watch and chain in silence. The man looked
at her ; he had been in the theatre on the
night of the fire, and was one of the few who
had escaped wholly unhurt. After examining
the watch and chain, he inquired —

How much?"

Ten pounds, if you please."

Too much ; I can buy 'em new by the
gross, watch and chain together, for six
pounds ten apiece."

But I want it so badly — and — and — I've
lost my purse."

Looks like it, miss," he said, grimly

handing her the purse, which she had inadvertently
placed upon the counter. " Five
is the outside I can make it. Is it to be five ? "

I suppose it must."

11 What name, miss ? "

"What name? Why, Car — No — no —
Mary Wale."

Oh ! indeed. Do you happen to have
such a thing as tuppence about you, Miss
Wale ? Because if you'll give me tuppence
for the ticket, I'll give you five sovereigns,
Miss Wale."

With charming consistency, poor Caroline
opened her purse, from which she extracted
twopence, which she gave the pawnbroker,
who then handed over the five sovereigns.

When she left the shop the old fellow
muttered —

11 ' Mary Wale,' so I should say. ' Very
like a whale ! ' Poor, dear young lady !

Miss Caroline Challoner, or I'm a Dutchman
! "

When she returned to the hotel she rang
the bell and asked for the Boots. He came
up, and a civil, shrewd Yorkshire lad he
was.

What time does the next train start for
London ?" she enquired.

Seven o'clock, my lady."

It's now four. I've three hours to spare.
Can you show me where Dr. Hall lives ? "

There's a lot o' Halls, my lady. There's
Tom Hall and Dick Hall, there's 'Firmly
Hall and 'Spenser Hall, there's Talky Hall
and Cheeky Hall, there's Clever Hall and
Dirty Hall, and he's the cleverest of the lot.
Which on 'em might you be wanting Miss? "

I want the gentleman who has attended
Mr. Herbert."

Oh ! yes, I know him ; that's Clever
Hall."

Come with me, then, show me where he
lives, and I'll pay you for your trouble."

Boots conducted her to the doctor's house.

VOL. II. L

He had been called away to Retort in a
case of life and death. Would not be back till
next day.

Would the lady leave any message ?

No ; " the lady " would write when she got
to town.

Then " the lady" went to her lodgings,
paid the bill, arranged for honest Boots to
take her portmanteau to the station, and
meet her there at a quarter to seven.

These preparations completed, she returned
to the hotel, and desired the nurse to wait in
the next room.

She then went to Herbert's bedside, and
sat there, sometimes bathing his forehead,
sometimes giving him to drink, sometimes
smoothing his pillow.

Poor fellow ! although still perpetually murmuring
her name, he still remained unconscious
of all her loving care.

At last it grew dark, and the clock struck

six, half-past, a quarter to seven. Then she
sprang up and said —

It is time."

Stooping over him, she kissed his brow
and said —

My darling, it is for your sake. God
bless and protect you, and send me safely
back to you."

Then she called the nurse, gave her a
sovereign, and bade her be careful of her
patient.

Pausing a moment at the bar, to explain to
the ogress, that she would return in a few
days, she urged upon her to let Herbert have
every care and attention, promising to be
responsible for all expense.

Then she passed forth rapidly through the
covered arcade which communicated with the
Railway Station, where she took a third-class
ticket for London.

As she moved over to the " up " train,
where Boots awaited her with the portmanteau,

a lady clad in sables and closely veiled, sprang
out of a first-class carriage, from the down
train, which had that moment arrived. She
fixed her eyes on Caroline till she took her
seat, and the train disappeared through the
tunnel on its way to town. Then she tore off
her veil. It was Clara !

Before she left London she had approached
the border land of insanity, as near as it was
possible, without passing the boundary.
Since the news of the fire she had thought
incessantly of Herbert's helpless condition.
She knew that he was a ruined man — poor —
perchance penniless. She pictured him helpless
— destitute. She knew that Caroline had
nothing but her small salary to depend on,
and must be in an impecunious condition also,
and therefore powerless to aid him.

Au contraire, besides her annual income,
she (Clara) had been for nearly twelvemonths
in receipt of a handsome salary, and

a handsome balance still stood to her account
at the Bank.

The absurd and sensational paragraphs
which appeared daily in the papers about
Herbert added to her continually increasing
anxiety.

She could not rest by day, or sleep by
night — perpetual brooding upset the balance
of her mind — until, at last, she determined,
at all hazards, to know the worst.

Having drawn five hundred pounds out of
the Bank, she started for Kingstown with
the fixed idea to see him, to nurse him, to
comfort him, to save his life. How to accomplish
this object she didn't quite know. As
she came along in the train she thought of a
thousand schemes. Perhaps her rival was
ill ; if so, she should have all that money
could procure. Then she thought —

Suppose she is better, I will go to her,
and will implore her, on my bended knees,
to let me share with her the task of nursing

and tending him. When he is safe, I will
leave him to her. If she will let me participate
in this labour of love, I will be her
servant, her slave ; if she refuse, woe — woe
to both ! "

Even now that she had arrived at her
journey's end, she had no definite plan of
action. She stood on the platform — her
luggage at her feet, her eyes fixed on the
departing train — until she was awakened
from her reverie by Boots, who said —

"Railway Hotel, my lady ? "

Yes," she replied.

Although her brain was in a whirl, her
observant eye had noted, that the man had
been in attendance on Caroline ; so, as she
followed him to the hotel, she inquired —

The lady you just now saw off, is going
to London, I suppose?"

"Yes, my lady," Boots replied, looking
somewhat astonished.

Mr. Herbert is still at the hotel? "

Yes, my lady."

Any better?"

Not much, my lady."

Anyone attending him ? "

Nurse and Doctor Hall, my lady."

By the time they were at the hotel her
mind was made up.

Without preface, she perpetrated a pious
fraud ; boldly told the landlady that Herbert
was her brother, that she had come to nurse
and take charge of him, that money was no
object, and that she would be responsible
for everything.

The ghoul muttered to herself —

Pretty sister, indeed ! Another of his fine
madams, I expect. Never mind, she's got a
seal-skin coat worth fifty guineas, a gold
watch and chain, and a hundred pounds worth
of demands on her fingers ; besides, she's lots
of luggage — that's good enough for me."

Then she answered aloud —

Certainly, my lady ; I'm glad you've come
to look after him. That there Miss Challenger
have never been to see him but once."

This was a random shot ; but it reached its
mark.

u Indeed ! " interjected Clara, eagerly.

Yes, indeed, i'm, though he was nigh
his death on her account ; and now the stuck-up
thing have gone to London and left him
all alone, poor young gentleman ; not but
what I've done all I could for him, and looked
after him night and day as if he'd ain my own
son. Not that I ever had a son ; but, for all
that, I've bin a mother to him, that's what I
have ! "

And so, puffing and blowing like a grampus,
the horrible creature led the way upstairs, and
conducted the new-comer to Herbert's room,
where she left her.

At last ! at last ! she was alone with him.

She stood for a moment, silent and motionless,

contemplating the sad picture, then,
trembling with " the pity of it," subdued by
his very helplessness, and convulsed by the
tumultuous emotions which stirred every pulse
of her being, her great pride subdued by her
still greater love, her proud heart thawed, all
the woman in her nature leaped forth beyond
control, and she melted into a transport of
delicious tears as she gazed upon the poor
faded wreck of the man she loved.

She had accepted the "ghoul's" statement
as gospel ; for alas ! it is only too easy
to believe that which we wish to believe ; and
she readily accredited the statement that
Caroline had abandoned him — nay, more, I
fear, she was almost impiously grateful to
Heaven that this calamity had befallen him,
since it had brought him nearer, given him to
her at last.

Her excitement having somewhat abated,
she called the nurse. When the woman came

she gave her directions to be at hand during
the night. For herself, she arranged to sleep
on the sofa in the adjacent room, that she
might be always ready to attend upon him at
a moment's notice. She bathed his fevered
brow again and again, gave him to drink, and
then cast herself on the couch, overcome with
fatigue and excitement, and yet how happy
she was !

What cared she that he was poor, and
seared, and blighted ? She would tend him
by day ; she would watch over his pillow by
night ; she would, with Heaven's help, bring
him back to health and strength. And then,
when he knew that "that other one," for
whose sake he had imperilled his life, had
basely abandoned him in his adversity — but
that she had remained true — her faithful, constant
love would be at last rewarded.

This was perfect happiness — this, indeed,
was heaven on earth !

ORPHEUS.

Orpheus, with his lute, made trees
And the mountain tops that freeze
Bow themselves when he did sing."

EARLY on Tuesday morning I hurried out,

feverish and unrefreshed, to consult Clerehead

as to who was to play Orpheus.

"Well, Bob," said he, " you don't look

lively this morning. What's up ? "

Don't ask me," I replied, " she's gone."

u The deuce she has ! Where to ? "

I could not take him into my confidence, so

I remained silent.

Ah, well, well, I told you—you know I

told you —

' He that will not when he may,
When he will he shall have nay.' "

Mr. Clerehead, if you please," said I,
leave me to bear my troubles as well as I
can, and come to business.

Who is to play Orpheus ?

If this horrible creature whom you have
engaged goes on for the part, we shall never
get to the end of the piece ; it will be damned
in the second scene."

Oh, yes, I know all about that, my dear
fellow ; but I can't make an Orpheus. I have
been to the shops where they are manufactured,
and they haven't got the article on
hand."

"Well' I replied, " you'd better postpone
the production until we can look round and
see who's to be had."

At this moment the messenger came in
with a letter.

Special for you, Mr. Penarvon ; brought
by a Commissionaire from Morley's Hotel."
Anyone waiting ? "
No, sir."

That'll do, you can go."
The letter was to this effect —

Morley's Hotel,

Monday night.
Dear Mr. Penarvon,

I am here seeking an engagement.
Is there any likelihood of an opening at your
theatre ? If there is, as I have not the
honour of being acquainted with Mr. Clerks
will you broach the subject to him, and
oblige,

Dear Mr. Penarvon,

Faithfully yours,

Caroline Challoner."

I gave Clerehead the note, and lapsed into
a brown study while he read it.

What could it mean ? The one here,
the other there ! How could it be ?

I was roused from my reverie by Clerehead
calling out —

Wake up, old man — wake up. Challenger
! Challoner ! Is that the girl that
Jack Herbert saved from being roasted alive
at Kingstown the other day ? "

Yes," I replied, " fortunately for you ;
for in saving her he has also saved our
piece.

If she will condescend to do it (which I
rather doubt), here is the Orpheus, beyond
compare."

The deuce she is ! I always thought she
was a Shakesperian maniac — a regular
Tragedy Jack, in petticoats.

Do you really mean to say she can play
the part?"

I mean to say that she can play anything.
She sings like Patti, dances like
Henrietta Door ; and in a boy's part she is
a veritable Apollo. Then she is the most
beautiful creature on earth — save one."

Aye, aye ; that goes without saying.
There never was one like that one, and never
will be another. Nature broke the mould in
making her."

This he said with more earnestness than
was usual to him.

11 Take my advice," said I, " don't stand
upon your dignity ; lose not a moment. If
you can induce Miss Challoner to accept the
part, don't higgle about terms ; chain and
secure her at once. If you don't Braybrooke
will nail her the next minute."

11 Enough said. I'm off like a shot."

One moment," said I. il I'd go with you,
but I should keep the rehearsal standing still,
and they are all waiting for me now, on the
stage. You'd better take my card, for she's
as proud as Lucifer and as punctilious as the
Queens of Spain used to be. Don't try your
free and easy airs with her, or — "

'Pon my soul, Mr. Penarvon, you do take
the strangest liberties — "

11 Yes, I know I do ; but for all that, if you
want to engage Miss Challoner, take my
advice."

All right — confound you — all right, old
wiseacre. Here, Benson, call me a hansom."

And away went Clerehead to Trafalgar
Square, and away went I to my rehearsal.

On arriving at the hotel, Clerehead was
shown into Caroline's room.

They were both well on their guard, and
punctiliously ceremonious to each other.

He approached her with deference, and
she received him with lofty courtesy. He
opened the ball by presenting my card, and
stating that I had desired him to call. She
responded by saying that, finding in the
present state of public taste there was no
possibility of obtaining an opening in the
higher department of the drama to which she
naturally aspired, she was not indisposed to

accept the principal character in burlesque
or opera bouffe.

He replied that most fortunately an opportunity
presented itself in the forthcoming
production of " Orpheus in Hades," the title
role of which was vacant.

Would he let her see the libretto and the
music ? "

Certainly, with pleasure."

And promising to send both in an hour's
time by the musical conductor, he took his
leave, profoundly impressed with her nerve
and self-possession, and more especially with
her beauty.

Within the hour came the conductor, no
less a person than our old friend Van Vort.
The little man brought his violin as well as
the score. She sat down to the piano, and
they ran through the music together, she
singing and playing at sight.

VOL. II. M

Presently she said —

11 Will you allow me ? " and taking the violin
from his hand, she played one of the most
difficult passages with marvellous skill and
dexterity. Dear old Van listened enraptured,
and gaped open-mouthed as she returned him
the violin.

When he got back to the theatre he burst
out —

"Each, Mein Got ! Mynheer Clerehead,
you have found a black tulip, a rose diamond,
a tenth muse ! She has a voice
with two registers. You should hear her
lower notes. Then she play on the fiddle
like Joachim or Neruda."

What did I tell you?" said I.

Next day, at noon, Clerehead presented
himself at Morley's. After the usual civilities,
he said —

Have you thought the matter over ? "
Yes," replied Caroline, " I will accept

the part provided I may introduce two
musical pieces of my own. They will give
no trouble, for I shall accompany myself."
11 Whatever you like, Miss Challoner. And
how about terms ? "

Oh, that question can stand over until
after the production of the piece."

Certainly, certainly; but we must see
about your dress ; we are having everything
direct from Paris."

Thanks ; but I always design my own
costumes. If you will kindly send me Moor
Smith's book on Grecian Costume, and let me
see the sketches, so that I may not clash
with the colours of the other characters,
that will be all I require."

Her coolness both piqued and posed him.

He rose to make his adieux, then a happy
thought struck him.

As he got to the door he paused, and
played a strong card.

Pardon me," said he; " but of course

I've heard of the fire at Kingstown, and I hope
you will not feel offended. Will you permit
me to be your banker ? "

You are very good, sir ; but should I
fail?"

It isn't possible ; I won't believe it. You
will permit me — "

I fear I shall frighten you."

I'm not easily frightened."

(( I want a hundred and twenty pounds. A
hundred pounds to send away, and twenty
pounds for my dresses."

Are you sure that will be enough ? "

Quite sure."

11 In half an hour's time you shall have a
draft, payable at sight, for a hundred pounds,
and-£20 in notes. Anything else ? "

11 No, thanks. Good-morning."

Good-morning — good morning."

And Clerehead went away, beaming, at
having scored one, at least, in the game.

In less than half an hour, the draft, the

notes, and the sketches were delivered to
her. An hour later she was hard at work
upon the designs for her dresses ; while the
draft was on its way to the nearest postoffice,
in a registered letter, addressed —

"John Herbert, Esq.,
Railway Hotel,

Kingstown."

By the same post she wrote to Doctor
Hall, enclosing one of her five-pound notes
in payment of the nurse, and requesting to
be kept au courant with Herbert's progress.

When we met at the first rehearsal, Caroline's
eyes lighted up with pleasure.

"Oh! Mr. Penarvon," she said, "this is
delightful to meet someone I know amongst
all these strange people ; above all, to meet
you, who love him so well ! "

How did you leave him ? " I inquired.

"Very week and feeble, and still unions
but surely, though slowly, recovering,

so the doctor said. He's in safe hands,
that's one comfort."

Had I told her in whose hands he was by
that time, I fear " Orpheus" would never
have been produced.

Could I, however, have known or dreamt
the evil that was brewing, I would have sent
Orpheus to Hades at once !

I gave her a chair beside me at the
prompt table, ensconced her there at every
rehearsal, despite the artillery of angry looks
directed at her and me from scores of bright
eyes, the owners of which couldn't understand
such a post of honour being accorded
to a " provincial " (with a big P) actress.

After all, hard words and black looks harm
no one ; and she went about so quietly, so
affably, and with such a total absence of
assumption, that the angry fair ones soon
condoned the invidious distinction.

At length, after a fortnight's continuous

rehearsal, the piece was ready ; and the
eventful night came which was to decide her
fate as an actress, mine as an author.

The theatre was crowded with a representative
audience ; indeed, all the most distinguished
people in town were present.

The curtain rose upon the Elysian Fields,
a scene of great brightness and splendour,
more tawdry than I could have wished ; but
Clerehead knew his public, and insisted on
having his own way in this particular. Nearly
all the gods and goddesses of the mythology
were discovered, gorgeously arrayed in cloth
of gold and silver, or exquisite cashmeres,
rich in jewels and bastard Greek ornaments
as much like the real thing as chalk is to
cheese.

There were flaxen-haired beauties, golden-haired
beauties, and red-haired beauties (dark
hair at this period was not fashionable).
There were so-called beauties, who were not
beautiful at all ; there were photographic

beauties, whose pictures were to be seen in
every shop window ; there were some finely-proportioned
women, but there were some
skinny, scraggy creatures, immature green
goslings, mere abortions of nature, loathsome
to behold ! There were beauties in high
dresses and low dresses. There were beauties
very much over-dressed, and beauties very
much under-dressed ; in fact, there were
some who appeared to have dispensed with
that ceremony altogether.

The scene, despite my protestations, ended
with a cellar-flap breakdown, which was
received with an ominous silence that boded
little good for the success of the piece.

Hey ! Presto ! the prompter's whistle ;
and lo ! a cool and sylvan landscape in
Arcadia.

Then an empty stage, a dead silence —
something approaching what the actors calla
" stick."

Clerehead and I sat together in the stage-box,
on the left-hand side.

In the prompt entrance opposite stood
Caroline, enveloped from head to foot in a
voluminous cloak of black corded silk, lined
with ermine, from which peeped forth one
tiny, sandalled foot.

Impatiently turning to me, Clerehead exclaimed
—

D — me if she isn't going to funk it !
What does she mean ? Where is her dress ?
And why the d— 1 doesn't she come on?"

Wait, and you'll see," I replied.

He hadn't to wait long, for even as I spoke
the cloak dropped into the arms of the
dresser, and, striking his lute, Orpheus
bounded on the stage !

The contrast between those half-dressed,
brazen hussies, with their leery looks, their
frowsy mops of tow, and this young Greek
with his straight eyebrows and long curved
lashes, from which the great glorious eyes

of Irish grey gleamed forth luminous with
opalescent light, and the small, square classic
head with its affluence of raven hair simply
pushed behind the shell-shaped ears as it
streamed down below to the waist, was as
astounding as it was grateful to the sight.

His — or her — costume was pure Greek ; in
fact, the only Greek dress worn in the play.
The under-garment of pale sea green, trimmed
with a simple Grecian scroll of gold, surmounted
by a robe of delicate lavender,
embossed with silver, and draped with consummate
skill, left the lovely arms quite bare
to the shoulder, discovering beneath the hem
of the skirt lower limbs of most exquisite
symmetry. Upon her dainty feet were classic
sandals of buff and silver, thonged between
the toes. Her blessings of Italian silk were
thin almost to transparency, so that every
articulation of the perfect limbs stood revealed
in glowing life, and when she moved it was
indeed the very " poetry of motion."

Her face was quite pale, without a trace of
pigment or preparation, but the hot blood
rose to her brow or flushed upon her cheek in
prompt response to the emotion of the
moment. The graceful curves and exquisitely
rounded outlines of the noble figure were
clearly indicated beneath the simple garb,
which left " every beauty free to sink or swell
as nature pleases."

Her appearance evoked at first simply a
sensation of astonishment. Certainly it was
the only instance I can recall in my experience
(except upon one memorable occasion which
does not concern the present narrative !) when
a London audience has ever permitted a
stranger to appear without a welcome. She
was received in solemn silence. If the coldness
disconcerted her she made no sign. I
think it rather nerved her with a contemptuous
disdain.

A few lines served to introduce a charming

yet simple aria, which she sang to her own
accompaniment upon the lute.

When she finished there was a dead silence.
My heart was in my mouth. Her fate and
mine trembled in the balance. Another
moment of suspense, then one man in the
pit exclaimed —

By — ! It's not an earthly voice! It's
heavenly music ! "

The spell was broken. Then up arose a
shout which shook the building from base to
dome !

From that moment she held the audience
in her hand. But it was not until the last
scene that the climax was reached.

She entered playing the melody which has
softened the heart of the grim King of
Hades, and has released Eurydice from the
Shades.

The experiment was a bold and perilous
one. She sang, and played upon the violin,
and danced at the same moment. The music

was her own ; the lines were Dryden's. I can
hear her wonderful voice now as she intoned
the words —

Eurydice — the woods —
Eurydice — the floods —
Eurydice — the rocks resound."

The instrument responded to the voice ;
her whole frame dilated, as it swayed in
rhythmical undulations to the music, which
burst forth into a wild ravishment of joy, as
the chords snapped asunder, and Eurydice
lay sobbing on her lover's breast.

Then occurred a strange and altogether
unprecedented scene. Frivolous women and
fashionable men were alike convulsed with
strong emotion, and were not ashamed of it.
Amidst their sobs and tears arose a cry —

Enough ! Enough ! No more. Drop the
curtain ! "

The prompter didn't know what it meant,
but I did, and I rushed round and "rang
down " immediately.

Then came the crowning triumph.

The orchestra, led by Van Vort, cast
discipline and decorum to the winds. They
banged their bows upon their fiddle backs
until I thought they would have smashed
every violin in the orchestra. They stood up
and cheered like men possessed.

The enthusiasm was contagious and irresistible,
and communicated itself to the entire
audience. Men sprang upon the seats and
waved their hats ; women stood up and waved
their handkerchiefs, and when I led her forth,
for I, too, shared an infinitesimal shadow of
her glory, they pelted her with flowers.

One royal lady not only cast her bouquet,
but her fan, rare, unique, and of inestimable
value, at the dainty feet of Orpheus.

Amidst all this triumphal furor her heart
was far away in the sick room at Kingstown,
and when I led her off the stage she moved
as if in a dream.

At this moment Clerehead came round.
Wild with excitement he rushed over and
whispered to me —

By Jove ! I never saw anything like it,
They are all going mad ; and I think I am
going mad myself." Then turning to Caroline
he said — " The P — and the P — ss wish
to congratulate you, Miss Challoner. They
are waiting in the ante-room."

One instant, sir," she said.

And stepping into her dressing-room she
emerged in a moment, enveloped in her cloak,
as before, from head to heel, and thus
attired she was conducted to the Royal
presence.

The interview was short, but all kinds of
gracious things were said ; a few gracious
words were vouchsafed to the author, then
Clerehead attended his illustrious guests to
their carriage, while Caroline returned to her
room.

When I escorted her to her cab, she shrunk

from the mob at the stage door, and, clinging
to me, said —

Please don't leave me, Mr. Penarvon,
until I get home."

We drove away amidst the cheers of the
crowd.

When I left her at the hotel I said —

May I, too, congratulate you ? You
have saved my poor piece, and ' made for
yourself a great reputation.' "

You are very good to say so," she replied.


As she bade me " good-night " I heard her
murmur — ■

Ah ! if He were only here."

Ah ! if She were only here," said I, as I
turned into the Strand.

There were no two sadder souls in London
that night than the successful actress and the
successful author.

"A BOOTLESS JOURNEY."

' Tis in vain
To seek him here, that means not to be found."

DURING the time devoted to the rehearsals
of Orpheus I remained in total ignorance of
what was going on at Kingstown, and, indeed,
it was not until long after I learnt the
occurrences here related.

The day after her arrival Clara consulted
the physician as to the prospects of Herbert's
recovery and the treatment to be adopted.
Dr. Hall's theory remained unaltered; he
VOL. II. N

maintained that time, and rest, and absence
from anxiety were all that was essential to
effect a radical cure. He was certain that
consciousness would supervene in a few days.

To be sure, there was one serious drawback
to the patient's immediate recovery, and that
was the vicinity of the hotel to the railway
station. Trains were coming and going
every half hour, and every train that came or
went, shook the house to its foundation,
while the infernal screech of the engines
might almost have awakened the dead.

Even in Herbert's present comatose and
unconscious condition, an instinctive shudder
of pain and horror, passed through him every
time a train entered or left the station.

The doctor, therefore, advised that he
should be removed as soon as he was able
to bear the journey, and Clara made her
arrangements accordingly. She therefore
wrote to Mrs. Le Blanc requesting her to
come to Kingstown immediately.

When I called at Florence Villa the
following Sunday I found the house closed,
and I could obtain no information as to what
had become of Mrs. Le Blanc, though I
shrewdly suspected her destination.

When Caroline's registered letter arrived at
Kingstown Herbert was still totally unconscious
and unable to sign for it, and the
postman positively refused to deliver it
without his signature. Nor was this all ; the
letter she sent to the doctor miscarried !

Not knowing his exact address she had
directed it simply, " — Hall, Esq., M.D.,
Kingstown."

Now, it will be remembered that " Boots "
at the hotel told her that there were many
Halls" in Kingstown.

Unfortunately, the letter was delivered to
the wrong " Hall," who returned it to the
postal authorities, who tried another " Hall,"
who also was not the right {( Hall," and the

result was that both the registered letter for
Herbert and the one for the doctor were sent
back to the Dead Letter Office. In the
ordinary course of events both communications
would have been returned to Caroline ina
week or ten days, but, unfortunately, in her
haste to catch the poSt — and let it be added
in her delight at being able to send the
money — she had omitted to write her address,
hence, the people at St. Martin's-le-Grand
were unable to return either of the letters to
her.

Needless to say, she suffered a great deal
of anxiety on account of this prolonged
silence ; so, after a week or ten days had
elapsed, she wrote again to Herbert, and
again, and yet again without receiving a reply.

These letters fell into Clara's hands.

At the moment of their arrival it was quite
impossible for Herbert to read them ; and,
having recognized Caroline's writing in the
address, it was obviously out of the question

for Clara to read them, and communicate
their contents to Herbert, even had he been
capable of comprehending them, which, at
that time, he certainly was not ; hence she
put them away, intending to deliver them to
him immediately upon his recovery.

Meanwhile she nursed and tended him by
day and night.

No mother could have watched more
tenderly over an only child, than she watched
over him.

He wore round his neck the miniature, set
in brilliant, and a wreath of blue-black hair,
which, it will be remembered, he had shown
me upon a certain memorable occasion. In
his delirium he was wont to apostrophize the
picture in terms of passionate endearment for
hours together. The burthen of his theme
was ever the same, and thus it ran —

Let me kiss you, dearest, as bridegroom
kisses bride."

Every time she heard these words her

proud heart would swell to bursting, and she
would rush from the room, determined to quit
the place, at once, and for ever.

Then came the reaction. The " other
woman " had deserted him — must she desert
him, too? " No ! no! a thousand times
no !

When she thought of his loneliness, his
helplessness, she would exclaim —

Great heavens ! what would become of
him, were I also to abandon him ? "

So she resolved not to leave him — not, at
least, until he was well and strong, and then
for she was a devout Catholic — she would
seek shelter in some " dim cloister," where
hearts like hers, oft find refuge beneath the
shadow of the cross.

This was one picture, but there was another
and a brighter one — artistic triumphs, love
rewarded, connubial happiness — and so time
passed in alternations of despair and love,
with hope still beckoning, in the far beyond.

When Mrs. Le Blanc arrived, her presence
silenced the breath of scandal which was
beginning to coin the slander it dared not
propagate.

Herbert progressed so slowly towards
recovery, that the doctor urged immediate
removal. An invalid carriage was, therefore,
secured, the journey was effected without
danger or difficulty, and poor Jack and his
guardian angels, took up their quarters at one
of the principal hotels in Harrogate.

A most unfortunate contretemps occurred
on the road.

At Church Fenton, the direction was torn
off, from one of Clara's trunks. It miscarried,
and was lost.

Unfortunately, this box contained her writing
case, and those letters of Caroline's before
referred to. Trifling as this loss may appear,
it was destined to bear serious consequences !

Now that I look back on those troubled

times, I think that I was very wrong, not to
have gone to Herbert myself at once, or at
least to have written him; but I, too, was
stabbed in the tenderest part, and my mind
was so disturbed with conflicting emotions
that, for Her sake, perhaps more than my
own, I stood aloof and made no sign.

Once, indeed, I did, with great pain to my
own feelings, suggest to Clerehead to drop a
line to Mrs. Le Blanc, to enquire how things
were progressing, but I don't think it was in
him (certainly it was not at that time) to
comprehend the purity and self-sacrifice, of
such a nature, as Clara's. At any rate
he was in a savage mood, and blurted
out -*-

Ah ! the women, the cursed women !
They're all alike— all alike ! "

That any one should dare to refer to Her
in such terms was to me profanation.

My reply was about as brief as it could be
made.

And so our interview ended in anger, on
both sides.

Caroline, was meanwhile becoming sorely
distressed, at Herbert's continued silence.

She consulted me on the subject frequently.


Of course, I dared not tell her that her
rival had usurped her place — that would have
been fatal to " Orpheus " — and amidst all my
troubles, I had still an author's anxiety for the
fate of the first offspring of his muse. Therefore,
when she told me that she had resolved
to go down to Kingstown, on the Sunday
prior to the production of the play, I begged
her, for her own sake — for mine — for the sake
of the piece — to postpone her visit, at least
until after the first night, and she consented,
most reluctantly, to be guided by my advice.

The morning after " Orpheus " was brought
out, however, she took the nine o'clock express
for Kingstown.

Four hours later she was in the hall of the
Railway Hotel.

The " ghoul," who had not forgotten her
contemptuous treatment, encountered her as
she was going upstairs, and glowering at her
with a malicious grin, growled out —

You're a day after the fair, i'm ! "

Allow me — ," said Caroline. " I wish to
see Mr. Herbert."

You can't see him here. He's taken his
hook, with the other one."

The other one ? What other ? "

Why the other woman, of course. She's
quite put your nose out of pint, my lady, I
can tell you."

I don't quite understand you. Mr.
Herbert, you say, has gone. Gone, and
with whom, pray?"

With whom? Why, a fine madam who
called herself his sister, but who the doctor
tells me, is Miss Clara Trevor."

This dreadful creature, I suppose, must

have had some particle of humanity left in
her, for there was something in Caroline's
face which caused her to say —

Don't look like that, lass. There's as
good fish in the sea as ever com'd out on it,
and a fine young wench like you can allays
get plenty o' chaps, I've warrant. Have a
glass o' sherry, or a nip o' cherry brandy ! "

Caroline didn't start or speak. She only
gave a strange, far-away smile, and walked
straight away, to the ladies' waiting-room at
the station.

There she sat down, and to all appearance
fell asleep. For an hour or more, she didn't
move hand or foot.

The old widow, who had charge of the room
was alarmed, and tried to rouse her.

At last, she succeeded in forcing a tablespoonful
of brandy, through her lips.

For a time, the poor girl sat dazed, and still,
and quiet. Opposite her, was an illustrated
bill of some emigration company, something

about Manitoba. She kept spelling Manitoba,
and persistently spelt it with two n's,
thus — Man-manitoba.

All at once she heard a bell, and the scream
of a departing engine, which awoke her, from
her trance.

What train is that ? " she enquired,
anxiously.

The express for London, miss."

My God ! " she exclaimed, as she sprang
to her feet, " I've missed the train ! What
will they do ? What will they do ? "

She consulted the station-master ; there
was no possibility of getting to town until
eleven at night, that was certain.

Half an hour later I received the following
telegram : —

Railway Station,

Kingstown.
Have unfortunately missed my train. No
means of getting to town until eleven o'clock
to-night. I am very sorry."

I rushed over to Clerehead's chambers and
showed him the telegram.

What's to be done ? " I inquired.

Done ? " he replied, <l done ? Why, have
a special, of course. Let me see — what's the
time? Three o'clock; we've four hours to
the good. Here, take this cheque — no, we'll
go together. Hi ! Hansom ! "

He stopped two minutes at the telegraph-office
at Charing Cross, and wired to her
thus —

Don't distress yourself. They keep
capital soup, and decent dry sherry, at the
refreshment-room ; by the time you have had
a plate of the one, and a glass of the other, a
Special train will be ready for you. Penarvon
and I, await you at Euston Square."

This done, we bowled down to the station
in a quarter of an hour. In another quarter
of an hour, the railway people telegraphed that
the Special was on its way from Kingstown.

Since we are here," said Clerehead, " we

may as well stay. Let's go to the hotel and
have a smack. Why, Bob, you are like a
sick monkey. Confound it all, don't be so down
in the mouth ; it's sure to come right in the
end. Your friend Herbert's a lucky beggar, I
admit, to have two such women running after
him ; but he can't marry 'em both at once —
at least, not unless he goes to Utah."

To this sort of rubbish I had to listen for
three mortal hours.

At last the train was signalled, and we left
the hotel to meet it.

Caroline was very pale, but quite calm and
collected.

I'm so sorry, Mr. Clerehead," she said,
but really I couldn't help it."

I'm sure you couldn't," he replied,
pleasantly; " but don't say another word
about it. Here's the cab ! now pick yourself
up, and — what is it your precious Bard says,
Penarvon ? —

'Bend up each corporal agent to this terrible feat.'

To-night is a great night. We're going to
have the Prince and Princess, her father, the
Duke, and Grand Duchess, the Czarewitch,
the King of the Hellenes, the Grand
Old Man and ( the missus,' the Poet Laureate,
the American Minister, the Chinese
Legation, the Nepaulese Ambassador, and
the King of the Cariboo Islands ; in fact,
you'll be like Mars and Talma, at Buonaparte's
show at Erfurt, when they acted before a cockpit
of kings ! "

When we arrived at the stage-door he
said —

That's right — there you are. Now go
and have forty winks ; we'll see that you are
called at half-past seven, and Penarvon shall
send you in a cup of that wonderful tea, that
he keeps in his den, and is so stingy about."

Twelve o'clock must always come, and at
last it did come, on that awful night ; (for it

was an awful night for Caroline), yet I never
saw her act better in my life.

Poor child ! how she must have suffered !
My tortured heart sympathized with hers, for
I saw that she acted with death in her soul.

THE LOST LETTERS."

It is the little rift within the lute
That by-and-bye, will make the music mute,
And, ever widening, slowly silence all."

Within twenty-four hours of Herbert's
arrival at Harrogate, the absence of noise, and
the purer atmosphere, asserted themselves,
and he began to mend rapidly.

At or about this time, Clara saw the London
papers, teeming with flaming accounts of
Caroline's debut.

The reader may recollect our visit to the
Frivolity, and Miss Trevor's appreciation of

VOL. II. O

the class of performance she saw there. It
must be remembered, too, that she was under
the firm impression, that Caroline had deserted
the man who loved her ; and now the cup of
her offences was filled to overflowing. Nor
did I escape unscathed ; her anger at my
complicity in lending my name to the authorship
of such rubbish, as my unfortunate
Orpheus," especially, in connection with
her rival, excited her anger beyond all
reasonable bounds.

Day after day, Clerehead, by all the
artifices in which he was so profound an
adept, attracted public attention in the
journals, town and country, to the debutante' 's
triumphs. There was an " on dit' J here,
an anecdote there, till her name was on
every tongue ; but no tongues dealt with it
so acrimoniously as those of the two ladies
at Harrogate. I think, if anything, Mrs.
Le Blanc, was the more virulent of the two.

Although she didn't know her, hadn't even

seen her, in her eyes, poor Caroline, was
already the most depraved of women.

This inveterate prejudice, however, did not
allay Clara's anxiety about the lost letters.
She pestered the railway authorities from
morning till night ; she telegraphed here,
there, everywhere ; still no sign of the
missing trunk.

What was to be done ?

Obviously, as soon as Herbert was sufficiently
recovered, he must be made acquainted
with the facts, whatever might be the issue ;
meanwhile, all that could be done now, was to
stir up the railway people incessantly, and to
wait for his recovery, and then make a clean
breast of it.

The ladies kept watch alternately, over
their patient.

Early one morning in September, during
Mrs. Le Blanc's vigil, outworn with fatigue
and anxiety, she had fallen asleep.

Presently, she was awakened by the carolling
of the birds without. The sun. was
trying to peep through the closed shutters ;
so she rose, and plucking the curtains aside,
admitted the ruddy beams, which filled the
room with life and light.

As she turned, she saw Herbert sitting up
in bed, his eyes wide open, and fixed upon
her with a curious and enquiring gaze.

Where am I — and where is she?" he
tremulously enquired.

Astonishment, for a moment, deprived the
good lady of the power of speech.

He paused, and then querulously demanded
—

Why don't you speak? And who are
you, woman ? "

I am the nurse."

And she — where is she ? "

Here ! " she replied, as Clara entered.

She stood, just as she had stood years ago,
on the threshold of the Theatre House — all

uncertain of her welcome. He didn't speak,
but the silence was enough. It told her, as
clearly as words could speak, that she was
not the " she " he had asked for, and had
hoped to see. The big tears trickled down
her cheeks in silence.

These " speechless messengers " went
straight to his heart. He had never seen
her since the night of " The Rival Queens,"
when they had parted in silence, if not in
anger. All this passed through his brain
like the lightning's flash, and instinct, or
some finer faculty, enabled him to divine
intuitively, the delicacy of the situation.

Strengthening his voice, he said —

"Miss Trevor."

She drew herself up in the old attitude of
haughty reserve (how well he knew it ! )

Clara," he continued ; (he had never
called her "Clara" before.)

Ere the word had left his lips, she was
beside him, holding his poor wasted hand in
her own.

How kind, how good you are' he continued.
" I feel, I know, I ought to be
grateful, though I am not quite sure even
where I am, or how I came here. Was it
the fire last night ? Or was it ' The Rival
Queens?' Forgive me, but I think — "

Don't think of anything now, please,"
she said, " until you are strong and well.
In a day or two you shall know all."

One thing I must know, or I shall die.
Where is she ? Not dead, not dead ! For
the love of Heaven ! say not dead ! "

No, not dead."

Thank God, for that ! And she is well, I
hope?"

And well."

Thank you once more ; you are very
good to me."

He took her hand, and kissed it humbly.

Next day he got up, and the next. Although
pale, and worn, and wasted, he was sufficiently

recovered now, to remain up, a few hours
daily.

Here I might describe, at length, the subtle
process, by which these two women avoided
all mention of the " other one," until, with
returning strength, his poor heart began to
hunger after her, and would not be denied.
Enough, that for seven days they held him at
bay ; but they could not hold him off for ever.

On the morning of the eighth day, Clara
had been reading " The Idylls of the King"
to him.

When she had finished —

(l Clara," he said (he always called her
Clara" now), "I am strong, and I must
know all. The other day, you told me, she
was not dead."

No, she is not dead," she replied, and
then she muttered through her closed lips
and clenched teeth— " Would to Heaven /
were ! God help him ! What can I say ? I
dare not tell him — he would hate me ! "

11 So long as she's not dead," he answered,
I can bear anything. Tell me, please, tell
me, where is she ?"

fi You are sure you can bear it ? "

Have I not said?"

She is in London."

London ! So she is in London? What
is she doing there? "

This will explain ; " and she handed him
the Times, with a long notice upon the performance
of " Orpheus' containing a description
of Caroline's person, her costume, her
singing, dancing, &c.

He read it, without the slightest apparent
trace of emotion, and, rising, left the room
without one word.

How cruel are even the best men and
women, when they love !

He knew — he must have known — that
Clara loved him, yet his jealous anger
made him oblivious of all her care and kindness,
made him pass her by without even a
look.

She knew he loved Caroline, yet she
had not spared him this cruel pang. For
all that, I verily believe, had he vouchsafed
one sign of sympathy, she would have told
him, then and there, of the miscarriage of
those unfortunate letters, which would have
explained all. The golden moment passed,
never to return.

From that time forth, the name of Caroline
was never mentioned by either. She was as
one dead to both.

As for him, when after that fateful moment,
he reached the privacy of his own chamber,
disdain gave way to grief, grief changed to
anger, anger to despair, which culminated in
the ravings of a madman.

The situation appeared so black against
Caroline, that he felt assured, convinced,
that he had been abandoned, by the
woman on whom he had lavished the full
fruition of a life's love. She had left him

left him to die for all she cared — amongst
strangers ; deserted him without a shadow of
apology, excuse, or explanation. Nay, more ;
she, his affianced wife, had degraded herself,
(and him by implication), by participating in
this loathsome exhibition of carnal effrontery
for so he regarded my poor " Orpheus " — ■
and, to enhance the infamy of the affair, the
friend of his boyhood, had absolutely perpetrated
the miserable abortion of a play,
selected to consummate her shame, and his
degradation !

If, instead of giving way to these ravings of
a distempered mind, my unfortunate friend
had written three lines to Caroline, or myself,
all would have been explained, but his insensate
pride, arose like an iceberg between us; and
from that time, to the bitter end, he entrenched
himself in a barrier of impregnable and disdainful
silence.

THE ARREST.

Gaoler, look to him ; tell not me of mercy."

HARROGATE is a dull and depressing place
at the best of times, but Clara would have
made Stonehenge a palace, and Salisbury
Plain, the Garden of Eden, for the man she
loved, had he only loved her in return.

His heart however was far away. Courteous
and even grateful for her kindness, he always
was, but, gratitude is a sorry substitute for
love.

Whenever they went abroad, she was the

cynosure of all eyes. All men flattered and
admired her, save only he ; all hearts were
opened to her, save only his. She might
have chosen from many men — some younger,
all richer in the world's gifts than he — yet
she passed them by with easy disdain, to
pour forth the affluence of her beauty, the
fair, first love of her virgin heart, the fervour
of her loving, noble nature at his feet, and
there the treasure lay, in the dust, unrequited,
and almost unnoted.

Sometimes she angrily enquired of herself—


What glamour is there about this man
that I should love him so ? "

Alas ! she knew not — she only knew that
she loved ! With him alone was life — without
him, all was darkness, desolation, and despair.

As for him, his pride revolted at being
a woman's pensioner. The position was
becoming more irksome daily, and at length
he found it absolutely unendurable.

At this period, Clerehead took it into his
head, to run down to see them.

I think he went, as much to satisfy his mind
as to whether his suspicions about Clara had
any foundation, as out of sympathy for Herbert.


He was soon undeceived, and his visit
proved a boon to them both, and indeed tome
as well, for in a day or two, he wrote me a
most genial and sympathetic letter, which
took a load of misery from my mind.

Both Clara and Jack were fond of horse
exercise, so was Clerehead. The first day
after his arrival, they rode out together, on a
trio of sorry hacks.

By that night's post, he wrote to a noble
friend in the neighbourhood, who immediately
invited them to join him at the
meet at Knaresboro' two days after, when
he provided each of them, with a splendid
mount.

Clerehead's equitation was certainly not

brilliant, but he kept his seat, and rode
straight to hounds.

Clara and Herbert, however, were " native
and to the manner born." She looked superb
in her riding-habit, besides which, she rode
like an Amazon, while, as for him, he sat like a
Centaur. They bounded over brooks, ditches,
and five-barred gates, like thistle down, and
they were in at the death, neck and neck, with
their noble host, from whom they received so
cordial a welcome, that they followed the
hounds at every meet, during the remainder of
their stay in Harrogate.

Fresh air and exercise were the elixir of
life to Jack ; so he began to recover rapidly
and to look something like his old self.

One shadow hovered over all — Caroline !
Her name was never mentioned. On the one
hand, Herbert's wretched pride intervened ;
on the other, Clerehead's policy prevailed.
Instinctively he felt, indeed, he knew, that

if Herbert had the power, he would have
annulled her engagement at the Frivolity
there and then ; so, tacitly, but by mutual
consent, at the very moment when a few frank
words would have made everything clear,
pride and policy combined, to prevent explanation.


At length, it was time for Clerehead to
return to town. The night previous to his
departure, after a long private consultation
with Clara, he tackled Jack over a bottle of
claret and a cigarette.

Herbert," said he, " it's time for you to
be up and doing, or people will begin to forget
there's such a fellow in the world. The
physic to cure you, is a dose of that ' blessed
Bard ' of yours. I go in for the light fantastic,
and my fireplace isn't big enough for a prehistoric
figure like yours ; but I'm well in withall
the other fellows, and in four-and-twenty
hours, I'll organize a tour for you, and Miss

Trevor, in a few of the best towns, that will
realize three or four thousand pounds, in the
course of as many months."

But," replied Herbert, " I've no properties,
no dresses."

Never mind that ; I'll send a clever little
Frenchman of mine down, when I get back,
and he'll soon fig you up."

But, my dear Clerehead, I've no money."

But I have lots ! and what's the use of
money if you can't use it to pleasure yourself
and your friends ? I'll arrange all about it, and
you shall pay me, when you please, and how
you please. Meanwhile, here's a couple of
blank cheques which I've signed ; fill 'em
up as you please. I know you don't want to
be under an obligation to a woman — no man
that's a man ever does ; for women — bless
their hearts ! — are kittle-cattle ; but, there,
there, you know as much about 'em as I do.
Now, it's no use talking; I mean to have my
own way, so spare your breath, I'm off to

town tomorrow, hours before you are stirring,
so good-bye, and good luck, old man."

And before Herbert could get a word in
or out Clerehead was gone.

With the aid of the telegraph, in four-and-twenty
hours, he arranged for a tour of four
months, to commence in a fortnight's time.

Herbert was impatient to be again in
harness, and Clara was more than delighted
at the prospect. She was about to renew
her delightful studies of the great old masters.
Beyond, and above all this, she was once more
about to act with " Him ! "

The day after Clerehead's departure, the
Frenchman came to Harrogate, and arranged
Herbert's costumes.

On his return to town, the little man, sent
down his wife, and a couple of young women,
with Clara's magnificent wardrobe, and a
fine, high old time " they had of it. What

VOL. II. p

with trimming, revising, altering, &c, the
fortnight passed rapidly and pleasantly.

Thanks to one of Clerehead's cheques, Jack
was enabled to make the ladies understand
that they were his guests, at the hotel, besides
which, he insisted on taking their railway
tickets for the ensuing journey, and thus
commenced their campaign.

Mr. Thompson, the manager, met them at
Claremount Station, and accompanied them
to the King's Head, where he had secured
apartments for them.

They were to open in " Much Ado About
Nothing."

The rehearsal was most satisfactory. When
it was over they looked in at the box-office
to see the plan. Every place was taken for
the* opening night, and, indeed, for nearly
every night of the engagement.

Herbert was % elate and confident, and Clara
was delighted.

Mrs. Le Blanc, who took charge of the
household arrangements, had ordered a light,
early dinner. As soon as it was over, Clara
retired for her siesta, leaving Herbert to take
his forty winks on the sofa — a process he
never omitted, when he had to act.

The ladies went early to the theatre, giving
the waiter strict injunctions to take him a
cup of tea, at six o'clock.

A few minutes before that time, a great,
coarse, ill-favoured fellow, burst into the room
and, walking over to the sleeping man,
roughly placed his hand upon his shoulder.
Springing to his feet, Herbert exclaimed —

Hands off! Who are you, and what do
you want here ? "

I want ninety-six pounds odd, or you,"
the man replied ; " but I'd rather have the dibs,
so you'd better fork out. Here you are,"
continued he, flourishing an ominous-looking
legal document. " There's no mistake about
this."

At first Herbert couldn't comprehend the
position.

i( There's no arrest for debt now-a-days."

Aunt there, though ? That's all my eye,
and my elbow ! P'raps you never heard o*
such a thing as contempt o' Court ? Oh ! dear,
no; how very verdant we are ! "

Then Mr. Bindlater explained, without circumlocution,
that Herbert's departure from
Kingstown was so sudden and unexpected,
that the benevolent bailiff there, was taken
off his guard. The poor fellow was responsible
to the bill-discounting harpy, so
he was compelled to send some of his
subordinates, to secure the money, or the
man.

At this moment, a luminous idea struck
Jack. Clerehead's cheque ! Happy thought !

What's the total ? " he enquired.

Ninety-six quid, and about a couple of
pounds more for additional axes."

What's your name ? "

Jonas Bindlater."

Taking pen and ink, Herbert filled up the
cheque for ninety-eight pounds, and handed
it to the bailiff, who burst into a roar of
laughter, as he exclaimed —

Well, you must think me a mug ! How do
I know this is worth the paper it's writ on?"

With great self-control, Herbert replied —

Perhaps you'll take it down to the landlord,
and ask him to cash it."

That ain't half a bad idea. Here, I say,
Sam," said he, calling in a fellow who remained
outside mounting guard, " take this to the bar,
and axe the landlord, to square it."

Presently the messenger returned with a
curt " Mr. Jenkins ain't in, and the missus
don't seem to see it."

After an awkward pause, Herbert said —

Well, I suppose you had better come with
me to the theatre, and let me see the
manager."

See the d— 1 ! " roared the ruffian. " You
might as well try to get blood out of a stone.
Why, I nailed him himself this morning' for fifty
quid, and it was like drawing his eye teeth
to get the coin."

At least, you'll permit me to consult my
friends ? "

Can't do that; my instructions is imperative.
So, if you can't shell out, you'd
better look sharp, for chokey's twenty miles
off, and it'll be as much as we can do to catch
the last train. As for this," returning the
cheque, " you can keep it to curl your hair
with ! Cab's at the door ; there's three onus,
so you'd better take it quietly, and look
alive."

Restraining himself with a violent effort,
Herbert wrote a hasty note to Clara, begging
her to explain the situation to the unfortunate
manager, and to request him, if possible, to
arrange for his immediate release, so as to
admit of his acting the next night. Ringing

the bell, he gave the note to the waiter, with
directions to deliver it at once.

Ten minutes later poor Jack was in the
train, and on his way to " durance vile."

To add to his misfortunes, the engine broke
down on the journey, a delay of some hours
occurred, and he didn't arrive at Bolingbroke
till nearly midnight !

To make matters still pleasant, the jail
was a mile from the station ; it was raining
cats and dogs, and a cab was not to be had
for love or money. Of course he was drenched
to the skin, before he reached the prison, soin
point of fact, were his friends the bailiffs —
there was some comfort in that.

Evidently, there is sometimes as much difficulty
in getting into a prison, as in getting out
of one.

After ringing and hammering at the wicket
for nearly a quarter of an hour, a small window
above the portal was opened, and a gruff voice
growled out —

"What the blazes do you mean, by disturbing
people, at this hour of the night ? "

11 Can't help it ; train broke down' Bind-later
replied.

Well, you'll have to wait until I get my
togs on, anyhow," replied the voice.

Another quarter of an hour, in the cold, rain,
and darkness.

At length, unlocking of locks, withdrawal
of bolts, and bars, wicket-door thrown open,
and then owner of the voice aforesaid appears.
A great ill-looking fellow, with a red nose,
reddish, ferrety, evil eyes, a miserable thatch
of stubbly red hair, and mutton-chop whiskers
to match. This gentleman is accompanied by
two burly turnkeys, who are apparently but
half awake. The bailiff presents some legal
document. Mr. Redhead takes a dark lantern
from one of the turnkeys, hastily inspects
the document, then flashes the bull's-eye
on Herbert's face, and enquires curtly —

11 Is your name John Herbert?"

John Herbert is my name," is the equally
curt reply.

Redhead disappears in silence with Bind-later,
for some occult ceremony in reference,
it is to be presumed, to said document. Herbert
remains in the corridor in custody of the
two assistant bailiffs, and the turnkeys, who all
glare at one another, in grim and gloomy
silence.

In five minutes, Redhead returns in violent
altercation with Bindlater. The bailiff is appealing
for shelter, alleging that he and his
men are wet through, and half dead with cold.
Redhead recommends them to seek for
lodgings in a certain locality which is by no
means deficient in warmth or extent of accommodation,
and the wretched bailiffs are
bundled out of the building into the storm,
which is now falling in one steady downpour.

Rearrangement of bolts and bars.

Then Redhead yelps —

Bring him along."

Herbert accepts the situation as inevitable,
and walks between the two turnkeys, down
the dimly-lighted passage. They approach
an office ; more drawing of bolts and unlocking
of locks.

Redhead enters. Herbert is about to
follow him, but falls back at a gruff —

Stay where you are. Now answer."

And the fellow sits down, pen and ink in
hand, writing Herbert's replies.

Your name is John Herbert ? "

I have already told you so. And now I
wish to see someone in authority."

Oh ! you'll see someone in authority
quite time enough. Now, what have you got
in your pockets ? "

It seems to me," says Herbert, very
grimly, " that I've got my hands in my
pockets."

We don't want any of your lip here.
Turn his pockets out."

The two turnkeys make a rush ; but no

man as yet, had ventured to lay hands on
John Herbert with impunity. So he takes
the fellows by their throats, and sends them
sprawling on either side, as he says, quietly —

A little of that, will go a long way with
me. Now, what are the contents of my
pocket to you?"

Everything ! " Redhead growls. " It's
my booty to enter everything you have about
you, in this book."

If you had said so at first," replied Jack,
you'd have saved your friends a shaking."
With that he gave up his purse, containing
Clerehead's cheque, a cigar case, a penknife,
and his watch and chain, all of which Redhead
entered in the book, desiring the prisoner to
sign his name at the bottom of the page.
This formula complied with, the fellow resumed
his interrogatories.

Now, are you going on the county, or do
you mean to keep yourself ? "

11 I fear I don't quite understand you."

11 Do you mean to find your own grub, or
d'ye mean to live on the prison fare ?"

I've no money — nothing but that cheque."

Oh ! cheques ain't no use here till they've
passed through the bank. Besides, this ain't
payable to you ; it's payable to Bindlater, and
he hasn't endorsed it. I shall have to see
how you came by this."

Closing the book with a bang as he comes
forth, and locking the door, the ruffian barks
out —

No. 75," and vanishes in the semi-darkness.


Herbert is marched off in the opposite
direction, between the two turnkeys. They
go along a narrow passage, up a flight of
stone steps, then out into the open somewhere,
the rain still coming down. Another
door is unlocked and unbarred, another
corridor is passed, another flight of stone
steps descended. This time Herbert misses
his footing in the semi-darkness, stumbles,

and is about to fall. As he recovers himself,
one of his gentle janitors playfully exclaims —

Blowed if he ain't tight, Bill ! I thought
he was."

A dozen paces more, and the other fellow
calls out —

Halt ! "

He flashes his bull's-eye upon the door of
a prison cell, barred with iron, studded with
nails, and with a small grated aperture, above
which is inscribed, " No. 75."

The door is thrown open, disclosing a
small whitewashed cell, about ten or twelve
feet square, and proportionately high. By
the light of the lantern, the prisoner perceives
a mattress, and some blankets, in a heap upon
the ground.

There you are," says one of the fellows.
You couldn't be served better in a ham
and beef shop."

Before he has time to speak, Herbert is shot,
like a sack of coals, on the floor of the cell.

The door closes with a bang, and he is left
in darkness.

There is a noise of locking, bolting, barring,
and retreating footsteps, followed by
silence.

Then — oh, merciful dispensation of Providence
! — Nature's blessed Anodyne falls
upon his weary eyelids — and he sleeps.

AT THE PRISON GATES.

Such sheets of fire, such bursts of horrid thunder,
Such groans of roaring wind and rain, I never
Remember to have heard."

At the Theatre Royal, Claremount, the
managerial heart rejoiced exceedingly. In
front, the audience were packed like herrings
in a barrel ; behind, the people had got their
war paint " on.

The decks were cleared, and ready for
action. The call-boy, who had the advantage
of being normally deaf, and abnormally stupid,
made the usual calls outside Herbert's dressing
room, knocking loudly at the door each

time; and, of course, took it for granted,
poor lad, that Benedick was ready to begin.

The overture was finished, the last call
made, and up went the curtain.

Clara, arrayed in her gorgeous costume —
bodice and train of ruby velvet, with a
Moorish petticoat, of crimson and gold, upon
a white ground— made a Titianesque blaze
of light and beauty, as she came sweeping
down the stage.

She had a tremendous reception. The
words came rippling forth like music, the
repartees flashed from her lips like stilettos,
laugh followed laugh, till Leonard said, " You
will never run mad, niece ; " and she replied,
No, not till a hot January."

Then Don Pedro was announced. The
march commenced ; it grew louder and
louder, until the Prince and his suite were
on the stage. And then — there was no
Benedick !

She looked anxiously round. " Where
could he be?" Her woman's instinct suggested,
" The artful fox! He is waiting to
make a separate entrance, so as to enhance
his reception."

The cue was given. Leonard said, " Her
mother hath many times told me so."

A pause of embarrassment ensued, then a
dead silence, amidst which she rapidly left
the stage, and enquired of the prompter —

Where's Mr. Herbert?"

Don't know, ma'am."

Has he not been called ? "

Yes, ma'am."

Without another word, she rushed round to
his dressing-room, on the opposite side of the
stage, and dashed open the door. Benedick's
costumes were carefully laid out, everything
prepared for the performance, but, as we
know, no Benedick.

The thought flashed through her mind — •

VOL. II. Q

Good heavens ! they've not called him at
the inn ! "

Snatching her cloak from her dresser, and
throwing it over her shoulders, she darted over
to the stage-door, calling as she rushed out —

Drop the curtain and play another overture,"
and fast as her feet — her poor, tiny feet
(clad only in her thin, white satin shoes) —
could carry her, she ran to the hotel, hotly
followed by the unfortunate manager.

Springing up the stairs, two or three steps
at a time, she reached the drawing-room. It
was quite dark, and she couldn't see her hand
before her.

Wake up ! wake up ! " she cried. " The
stage is waiting ! Where are you ? "

Groping blindly in the dark, she placed her
hand upon the sofa. It was empty !

With an exclamation of dismay, she felt
her way, over to the fireplace, reached the
bell-pull, screaming — " Lights ! Lights ! "
and alarmed the whole household.

The landlady came quickly to the room
with lights, followed by poor Thompson, and
the idiot of a waiter, who all at once remembered
the note.

Dear me," he commenced, " Mr. Herbert
guv me a letter an hour or two ago, afore
he went out, with them three strange men.
Yes ! to be sure, I left it in the bar — "

Before the blockhead was half through his
explanation, Thompson was downstairs and
up again, with the note, which he handed
to Clara. She tore it open, read it, and
without a word, returned it to him.

My God ! " cried the wretched manager,
I'm a ruined man. We've been doing awfully
for the past month, and every place is booked
for the next twelve nights. In fact, I had
arranged to have two more rows of stalls for
Friday. Oh ! Miss Trevor, what shall I do ? "

11 First tell me, has the last train gone to
Bolingbroke ? "

It went an hour and a half, ago."

Very well." Then turning to the affrighted
waiter she said — " Go, order me a fly and
a pair of horses to be at the door immediately
immediately, do you hear? "

As the booby jumped out of the room,
she continued, " Now, Mr. Thompson,
go back, take this letter, and tell the
audience, the truth. Give them tickets for
tomorrow night, or return their money. Say
that, please God, Mr. Herbert will return tomorrow,
to carry out his engagement, and I
shall be with him, if I'm alive ! See, there
is no lack of money," and, rushing into her
own room she returned, flourishing Bank of
England notes for ^400 before his astonished
eyes.

Poor Thompson stood trembling and hesitating
for a moment.

At last he requested the landlady to leave
the room.

When alone with Clara he gasped out —

(( Madam, I can't return the money. I was

myself compelled to borrow over ^50 from
the box office this morning to enable me to
keep out of jail."

Take this ! " she said, giving him a note
for ^"ioo, and off he went, to make his peace
with the public, as best he might.

By this time, the conveyance was at the
door. Clara sprang downstairs, and leaped
into the carriage, not even pausing to change
her dress. Her directions were short, emphatic,
and quickly given, and, away went the
coach fast as the horses could speed.

As the clock struck one they crossed
Bolingbroke Bridge. A quarter of an hour
later, they pulled up before the prison gates,
the horses in a lather and smoking like
steam.

The rain still came down in torrents, and
except for the lightning, it was pitch dark.
The driver tumbled down from the box and
fumbled at the carriage door, for the poor

fellow was drenched to the skin, and benumbed
with cold, hunger, and fatigue.

Clara thrust the door open impatiently,
bruising her poor little hand in the process.

Feeling her way to the wicket, she began to
tug violently at the bell-pull. There was no
answer. She rang again and again, and yet
again. Still no answer.

Ten minutes passed ; it seemed to her ten
ages.

Still one continual downpour.

At last the driver said —

Beg pardon, miss, but it's getting on for
two o'clock. If you'd come to the White
Hart, and get a bed, it only means a few
hours' difference to the gent, but it means life
or death, to you, and me."

She was in no mood to reason, and rang
the bell again impatiently.

Still no answer, and still the rain poured
down incessantly.

At last the man said —

Well, look here, lady, I'm sorry for you,
but this ain't good enough for me. I've got
the rheumatiz, and I can scarce stand with it
now, it's that awful. If I'd a-thought the night
was a-going to turn out like this, I wouldn't ha'
tuk this here job on no account, for it
strikes me I shall be a dead 'un by the
morning."

I'm so sorry, my good man. See, here's
money ! "

Money be blowed. I've got a wife and
five bairns, and wot's the use of all the money
in the world to a man when his wife's a
wider ? Oh ! miss, if you ain't got no compassion
on me or yourself, have pity on them
poor critters as have brought you all the way,
four-and-twenty blessed miles, if it's a inch,
without stopping, till they've scarcely got a
leg to stand on between the pair on 'em #
Look at 'em, they're trimblin' all over, poor
baseness."

So they are, my good man ; poor things,

so they are ! See them taken care of ; let
them have food and shelter ; get yourself to
eat and drink. Go quickly, and, if it's possible,
send me fresh horses with a fly, a cab, anything.
Order me fires — do you hear? —
large fires. Go ! As for me, Til stay and
make these people hear me ! "

Away staggered the poor horses, and again
she pulled at the bell, which made noise
enough, one would have thought, to have
awakened the Seven Sleepers.

Still no reply. Nothing could be heard
above the storm.

For a moment, it seemed as if she were
about to change her mind, for she called out
to the man —

Come back ! Come back ! "

Alas ! it was too late ; he was out of sight
and hearing.

Her dress was cut low on the neck. She
had only light endearments. All that interposed

'twixt her and the fury of the tempest
was her cloak, which unfortunately was not
even waterproof, and a shawl which the landlady
had compassionately thrown over her
head as she stepped into the fly.

By this time she was drenched from head
to foot, freezing one moment, and aflame the
next. The shuddering horror crept up her
limbs till they trembled beneath her, so that
she could scarcely keep her feet.

Again she rang the bell. She screamed,
she shouted, she called on Heaven for help ;
but called in vain.

At last there came a momentary lull in the
storm.

Pausing, from sheer exhaustion, and nerving
herself for a supreme effort, she seized
the bell once more. The handle, which was
heavy and of iron, came off in her hand !

With the recoil she staggered backward
across trie road. For one moment she leant
panting and breathless against the wall, then

VOL. II. R

she saw, above the portal of the prison, a
window with a lighted lamp upon the sill
inside. Summoning her remaining strength
she hurled, with all her might, the iron handle
through the window. Crash ! Smash ! went
the glass in every direction, out went the
light, and a volley of oaths and execrations
were heard.

A moment later the evil face of Redhead
appeared scowling through the window.
With a string of foul-mouthed objurgations
he demanded —

What she meant by smashing the window
? Who she was, and what brought her
there at that hour in the morning

She replied very humbly —

That she had come four-and-twenty miles
through the rain to pay the money, and to
release Herbert ; that he had been dangerously
ill — at death's door; that even one
night's imprisonment, might be fatal to him.
In any case, she implored that if he could

not be released, she might be admitted so
as to be near him at daybreak."

The ruffian heard her to the end, and then
said —

Now look here, my good woman, it 'ud
serve you jolly well right to give you in
charge, coming' and disturbing' a fella out on
his sleep a this'n ; but there, I've had enough
of this caper, so you'd better ' bunk ; ' anyhow,
you don't lodge here."

With that he slammed the window, and the
fragments of the broken glass fell upon her
head. Her eyes flashed fire ; she saw and
heard no more. Tottering forward she fell
prone upon her face, on the cold, wet, flagstones.


That night sheep and cattle were struck
dead on the mountain sides, trees and houses
were blown down, and ships were wrecked and
lost at sea. Yet there my poor darling lay
while the lightning flashed, and " Heaven's

artillery thundered in the skies," and the
wind howled and shrieked, as if the Prince
of the Air and his infernal host were astride
the blast, and the cruel, soaking, piercing,
blinding rain, still came down, as if another
deluge was impending, and the gates of
Heaven would never close again.

END OF VOL. II.

^

OF THE

UN IVLR5ITY

Of ILLINOIS

C677 r
V.3

A CARDINAL SIN.

HUGH CONWAY.

Author of " Called Back," " A Family Affair," fyc.
1 Vol., crown 8vo. Cloth 6s.

' A Cardinal Sin ' would have taken the world by storm, and
made its author's name and fortune had he not been beyond the
reach of good or evil. Taken all in all, it is one of the most
enthralling pieces of fiction of the last five-and-twenty years." —
Vanity Fair.

' A Cardinal Sin ' is a capital novel — better far than ' Called
Back,' and indeed containing finer and better work than ' A Family
Affair.' The plot is ingeniously complicated and cleverly unravelled."
— Westminster Review.

With the least possible waste of time the reader's interest
in the story is engaged. After this it is difficult to lay the book
down before the end is reached. Higher praise than this can
hardly be given to a novel in which plot is the principal ingredient."
— Era.

iC The most experienced novel reader will hardly lay down
A Cardinal Sin ' without full satisfaction." — Yorkshire Post.

We must confess to being profoundly astonished at the
strength and power displayed in this book, which would have been
certain to have added considerably to the author's reputation had
he not, unfortunately, dropped from the ranks." — Whitehall
Review.

A powerfully told sensation novel, with a strong plot, skilfully
worked out." — Guardian.

"Admirably told with a freshness and vigour that command
the attention of the reader." — Scotsman.

' A Cardinal Sin ' will be very largely in demand at the
circulating libraries and bookstalls." — Globe.

It is as exciting a piece of fiction as we have come across
for many a day, the interest being maintained from first to last."
The People.

REMINGTON & CO., Henrietta Street, Covent Garden.

A STORY OF THE MODERN STAGE

IX THREE VOLUMES
BY

JOHN COLEMAN

Author of u Curly : — An Actor's Story" " Memoirs of Samuel Phelps' 1 ''
Reminiscences of Charles Reade " &c

And one was far apart, and one was near :
Ay, ay, O ay — the winds that bow the grass !
And one was water, and one star was fire,
And one will ever shine, and one will pass,
Ay, ay, O ay— the winds that move the mere ! ; '

Tennyson

VOL III

Qtmban

REMINGTON AND CO PUBLISHERS
HENRIETTA STREET COVENT GARDEN


[All Rights Reserved']

u,3

CONTENTS

BOOK THE FIFTH.

CHAP. PAGE

I. In Hades (Day the First) . . i

II. 'Twixt Life and Death . . . 9

III. How the News reached Me . 22

IV. In Hades (Day the Second) . . 29

V. In Hades (Day the Third) 38

VI. Practical James . . . . 45

VII. "The Black Hole" 5 i

VIII. Out of Hades 66

IX. Laudate! 83

X. Doctor Clerehead . . . . 92

XI. The Bird has Flown 98

BOOK THE SIXTH.

I. Drifting away . . . . 115

II. The Duke . . . . . 122

III. Westward Ho ! 134

IV. The Parson's Adventure at Carlisle . 144
V. Sundered . . . . . 160

BOOK THE SEVENTH.

I. I am a Successful Dramatist . . 165

II. The Strollers . . . . 173

III. Clerehead gets his Cone . . . 186

IV. The Picture . . . . 197

V. Found ! . . . . . 211

VI. Brown — "No. 5" 223

VII. United 234

EPILOGUE.

At Last . . . . . 249

CHAPTER I.

IN HADES (DAY THE FIRST).

A prison ! oh, how I loathe the hateful name,
The grave to honest men — the sink of shame."

Fortunately for Herbert he slept through
the whole of his first night in prison till the
clock struck six, when the noise awoke him.
It was still dark. At first he only knew that
he was cold and damp, and trembling as with
an ague, but he had not the slightest idea
where he was. Presently a gong thundered
VOL. III. B

forth " Bang, bong ! Bang, bong ! " for fully
five minutes. Still he remained dazed and
shivering.

Five minutes later, he heard footsteps
approaching, then a halt. The light of a
bull's-eye flashed through the small grated
trap in the door, and a gruff voice roared
out — -

No. 75, wake up! "

In a moment he remembered all — he was a
prisoner !

No time was permitted for further reflection.
The door of the cell was thrown open,
and one of his acquaintances of the preceding
night, said in a loud, imperious voice —

Now then, stir your stumps, and turnout!"


Mechanically he obeyed, and stepped into
the corridor amongst thirty or forty poor
wretches, more or less unfortunate, than himself.
The door of his cell was bolted and
barred behind him, and he was led away with

the others, to a place they called the gentlemen
debtors' ward.

This was a spacious room with a concrete
floor, some strips of cocoa-nut matting, a
large oblong wooden table, a few dilapidated
wooden chairs, some forms, a Bible, a printed
list of the prison regulations pasted on the
wall, and a high window, through which, by
standing on a form, " our honourable friends
of the lower house " (as one of the " gentlemen
debtors " facetiously designated the
felons) could be seen marching by, taking
their morning " constitutional."

The warder in charge, led Herbert to a sort
of scullery, in which there was a large rough
trough, and several wooden buckets filled with
water. A bath was also pointed out to him,
filled with something which looked like gravy
soup, though it scarcely smelt so savoury. Fortunately
he was spared that loathsome ordeal,
although the pauper debtors, as a rule, were
compelled to submit to it.

Provided with a coarse towel, and a piece
of soap, he improvised the best toilette he
could under the circumstances.

Returning to the large room, he found his
fellow lodgers preparing their breakfast.
Some were making coffee, some tea and
toast, some were frying herrings or frizzling
bacon, and all were seasoning their preparations
with highly-flavoured jokes, or playful
little blasphemies.

Two or three men sat apart, silent and
sorrowful, evidently conscious of their degradation,
but the majority were canaille, who
seemed rather to enjoy the situation.

Fortunately no one had recognized Herbert.
One fellow enquired in an audible whisper —

Who's the swaddy? Ain't he a swell?
Pity a cove like that can't have a ward all to
himself."

Grateful for small mercies, poor Jack was
thankful, that he was at least unknown to these
dreadful people.

At eight o'clock the warder beckoned him
out, and conducted him to breakfast in the
paupers' ward, where he found a pint ' of
water-gruel, and four ounces of brown bread
before him.

It will be remembered that he had just
recovered from a dangerous illness, and was
yet suffering from the effects of last night's
drenching.

I can't eat this." he said.

You'll get nothing else here," the warder
replied.

Without a word Herbert rose and followed
the man back to the gentlemen debtors'
ward.

By this time breakfast was in full blast,
and Jack had time to notice his fellow-prisoners.


He was more particularly struck with the
appearance of three men who were not breakfasting
with the rest.

The one was a fair, slender, consumptive-looking
young man, who told him in the
course of the day, that he was an artist (a
lithographer, I think he said). The other,
was a venerable old gentleman of seventy
and upwards — white-haired and white-bearded
a man who had evidently known better
days. It added to Herbert's own sufferings
to see the hopeless, helpless misery of these
two poor creatures.

The third— a greasy, slimy-looking mountain
of flesh of fifty or sixty — from his seedy,
semi-clerical garb, was evidently a broken-down
parson. This ornament of the Church
kept perpetually dodging about like a
cormorant, and poking his dirty fingers into
every man's mess. All was fish that came to
his net. He snatched a crust of bread here,
a morsel of bacon, or a scrap of fish there, a
lump of sugar everywhere, devouring them
with wolfish avidity. As for the cups of tea
and coffee he guzzled, it was impossible to

count them, but, numerous as they were, his
insatiate maw " had stomach for them all."

Evidently this creature was the all-licensed
buffoon of the goodly company. He buzzed
about like a lazy blue-bottle, and, wherever he
moved, a roar of ribald laughter greeted his
full-flavoured witticisms, based principally
upon copious quotations from the Song of
Solomon, which he interpreted in the most
literal and secular fashion, to the intense
delight of his hearers. When he had stuffed
his huge paunch as full as it could hold without
absolutely bursting, he waddled to a
corner, of which he had apparently the
monopoly, and tumbled off to sleep like a
gorged boa-constrictor.

At half-past ten, everybody was marshalled
for prayers. Herbert fell in amongst the rest.
Strict silence was enjoined. They were
marched along like felons, and when they
reached the church they were placed in pews,

merely separated from their " honourable
friends " by a wooden partition.

After church, walking exercise followed in
the grounds ; then he was taken to the
paupers' dinner at half-past two o'clock.

The menu consisted of four ounces of suet
pudding, the like of brown bread, and two
ounces of boiled potatoes. At the sight he
turned away again without a word.

Church once more in the afternoon, then
back to the ward to sit alone —-always alone —
his sense of delicacy and even decency
wounded to the quick, by the swinish herd
around him.

At eight he was taken to his cell, and locked
up for the night.

Again " great Nature's second course"
came to his help, and sealed his eyes, and
soothed his tortured brain.

Thus ended his first day in Hades !

Make a fire within.
Fetch hither all my boxes in my closet ;
Death may usurp on nature many hours,
And yet the fire of life kindle again
The o'er-pressed spirits."

Meanwhile, what had become of Clara?
• Night had gone down in storm and tempest,
but the day arose in cloudless sunshine, yet
there she lay, even where she had fallen
hours before, cold and motionless, and, to all
appearance, dead as stone.

The clock struck six ; the city was alive
and stirring. Presently a man of middle age,

poorly clad, apparently a navigator, but with
that indescribable swing which denotes a
sailor, came rolling along the street, which ran
parallel with the left-hand side of the prison.

Mick Cassidy, for so he was called, was
smoking a cutty pipe ; he carried a pickaxe
and a spade on his left shoulder, and in his
right hand was a small bass, which contained
some workman's tools and his frugal breakfast.
Judging from his dilapidated garments
and his pinched and weather-beaten face, poor
Mick's lines had not been cast in pleasant
places of late.

As he entered the main street, on which the
front of the jail abutted, turning sharply to
the right, he nearly stumbled over the prostrate
figure, which lay before him, As he
started back, the pickaxe and the spade fell
from his shoulder, and he dropped the bass,
which contained his humble commissariat.

Holy St. Patrick!" he exclaimed,
what's this? It's a woman, sure. P'raps

she was after lifting' her finger want too
often, last night. Well ! they all do it ; ita
family failing' ! The poor creatures are
fond of barley. Anyhow, she'll take no harm
in the sunshine, d — 1 a bit !

She'll sleep it off, and be as right as a
trivet in an hour or two."

As he stooped to take up his pickaxe and
spade, he caught sight of a satin slipper, a
silk stocking, and the daintiest foot and ankle
in the world, peeping out of an embroidered
petticoat, all retained with rain, and bedraggled
with mire.

11 Mother of mercies ! " he exclaimed
what's this ? " And the dear fellow (a man,
I dare swear, every inch of him !) whipped off
his miserable slop, and covered up the dear
little foot and ankle as if they w r ere relics of
the Madonna ; then gently lifting up the shawl
and cloak, and seeing the face and form beneath,
he continued — " Oh ! look at the pearls
and the good ! But what are they to the

pearls in her mouth, and thegoold in her hair?
Oh ! luk at the hands of her ! and the arms
of her ! and the neck of her ! and the face of
her ! The face, that's like the face of our
Blessed Lady herself ! "

He felt her wrists, and placed his ear to her
neck, till he heard the faint pulsation of her
heart still beating.

The Lord be praised ! " he cried. " She's
not dead this time, anyhow."

He took off his jacket and waistcoat and
wrapped them round his bass, and placed them
tenderly beneath her head. This done, he
went to the prison-door to ring for help. Unfortunately,
the handle, as we know, was gone.

Wirras three ! That'll I do now? Sure
it's the polis I'd better be after." And
turning towards the town, by accident, he
kicked before him a small purple morocco
purse, with the initials " Cst. " in gold.

Murther in Irish ! What's this ? "

He opened the purse, found in it three

Bank of England notes for ^"ioo each, and,
half a dozen sovereigns or more. Standing
still for a moment, he scratched his head ashe
muttered —

Winter's coming' on. Nora's perishing
for want of a shawl, and the children's feet are
on the ground. Next week the rent's due,
and just wan o' thin bits of paper 'd make
a man o' me."

He paused, irresolute for a moment, then
he resumed —

Make a man 'o me ? It's a scoundrel it
'd make o' me — a miserable sthrawneen that
'd never dare to luk the wife and children in
the face again."

With that, he ran off in the direction of the
city.

In a few minutes he returned with a smart,
intelligent policeman, who took stock of the
situation at once.

Mick," said he, " don't you move nor
stir from the spot till I come back."

Be aise ; d — 1 a fut will I stir out o'
this."

By-and-bye, people began to dribble up,
one by one, and two by two. At length, a
crowd gathered round, but Mick mounted
guard with his pick-axe, and they gave him a
wide berth until the policeman returned with
a stretcher, and a couple of his comrades.
They " bore her gently on the bier," hiding
her from the mob, and so carried her to the
police-station.

The Chief Constable was a young Scotchman
named Macdonald, just appointed to the
post. Fortunately, for some seven or eight
years previously, he had been at the head of
the detective department at Rosemount.

(( Now what's all this about ? " he enquired.

Then plucking the shawl from the face of
the recumbent figure, he exclaimed —

My God ! why it's Miss Trevor ! "

He waited for no explanation, but turning
to the men he roared out —

Send for Dr. MacFarlane. Tell him to
come as if the d — 1 were at his heels ! Clear
out ! "

The men left the room as he called upstairs
—

Mary, Mary ! my love, come down ; and
tell Jeannie to bring hot water, mustard,
brandy, flannel, burnt feathers, and deuce
knows what all ! "

Down comes a little, bright-eyed, fair
woman, attended by a strapping, ginger-headed
Scotch lassie. To their good offices
Macdonald confides my darling, while he
rejoins the men without, and demands an
explanation. Then Mick Cassidy up and
tells all he knows, handing over the purse
and its contents.

Desiring the Inspector in charge to take
the numbers of the notes, Macdonald called
Mick aside and gave him a sovereign.

Here," said he, " don't go to work to-day.

Go and get tight if you like, only don't make
a beast of yourself, for if you're brought here
you'll have to go before the beak. I shall
keep my eye on you, and see you're well
paid for this day's work. What's your
name ? "

Cassidy — Mick Cassidy, sir."

Let me shake hands with you. You're
a fine fellow — a d — d fine fellow, Mr. Mick
Cassidy. Good-bye ; God bless you. Get
out ! "

At this moment the doctor arrived — a little
man with a huge bald head, the eye of a hawk,
and the beak of an eagle.

What's up ? What's up, Mac ? " he inquired.


Mac " told him all, and took him into the
room where Clara lay, in charge of his bonnie
little wife and her handmaiden. My poor
dear's eyes were closed, her lips were blue,
and her teeth were set like a vice.

The doctor felt her pulse, lifted her eyelids,
and shook his head.

Is there any hope ? " enquired Macdonald.

Leave the room, and I'll see."

When Mac left the room the doctor took
out 'his instruments and cut the shoulder-band
of the left arm of Clara's dress. Placing a
small glass tube beneath her armpit, he
watched and waited a minute or two, then he
withdrew the glass, looked at it, and smiled.

Throw a shawl over her," he said to the
women ; then he sang out, " Come in, Mac ;
it's all right, my man."

I'm glad to hear that," replied the other.

Everything depends now on dispatch.
The first thing to do is to get her to bed."

11 Oh ! I can do that in twa minutes," said
Mrs. Macdonald. " Come wa, Jeannie
woman, and gang ben, while I — "

Macdonald, with a tenderness and delicacy
one would scarcely have expected, said —

Nae, lassie, you're used to this place, but

VOL. III. C

yon poor teddy could never live beneath the
shadow o' these walls. We'd better get her
wa at once. But you shall gang wi' her, my
bonnie dearie, so slip on your bonnet.

Would you mind going on, doctor, to the
White Hart ? Order whatever you want.
Never mind the expense, I'm answerable for
all ! We'll be there in a quarter of an hour."

Away went the doctor.

In a few minutes he had secured the best
rooms in the hotel — a large bedroom and
drawing-room communicating with each
other. By his directions the furniture was
rapidly cleared away from the sitting-room.
A mattress was placed upon the floor,
covered with blankets, and by its side a large
slipper bath filled with hot water, two or
three huge sponges, and a footman full of
mustard and hot water.

Mrs. Ogilvie, the landlady, a fine, matronly,
ladylike woman, was in waiting, attended by
two chambermaids.

By this time Macdonald and his wife
arrived in charge of Clara.

They had barely carried her upstairs, when
a cab drove up, out of which sprang Mrs.
Le Blanc and Thompson, the Claremount
manager, in a dreadful state of excitement.

Of course Laura was dreadfully cut up
when she saw Clara's condition, but she soon
recovered, and made herself quite at home
with the doctor, who at once constituted her
head nurse.

Ladies," said he, " this young creature's
life depends on you. Only carry out my
instructions without fuss or blether, and you'll
be worth all the doctors in England. Now
then, turn her gently on her face. Stand
clear."

And he took a pair of scissors from his case,
and with one dexterous sweep cut through
Clara's dress from head to foot. He then
went to the mustard and water, emptied some
of it into the slipper bath, put his hand in.

Too hot' he said ; " give me that can of

cold water. That'll do. I'm now going to

prepare a cold pack for her in the next room

Now, madam, attend" — this to Mrs. Le Blanc.

Here's my watch. Please keep your eye on

it. First, you'll put her in the slipper bath

for ten minutes. Next, do you see this ? " and

he emptied a small bottle of colourless fluid

into a wash-hand basin, in which he placed a

sponge. " It's an acid, and a dangerous one,

so mind how you use it. When you take her

out you will sponge her from head to foot

with this, then cover her with a couple of

blankets for five minutes, neither more nor

less. Time it to the moment. Then sponge

the acid out with water as hot as your hands

can bear. As soon as you've done, bring her

into the next room, where the pack will be

ready, that is, Mrs. Macdonald, if you will

give me a hand ? "

Faith hands, doctor," replied the little
woman, as she bustled off.

He paused on the threshold, as he said to
Mrs. Le Blanc —

11 You understand me, madam ?"

Perfectly."

I feel I may rely on you."

You may."

Very well, then, go ahead."

Although his instructions were carried out
to the letter, for some hours the issue was
doubtful ; and the doctor himself scarcely
knew whether it would be life or death.

I have done all that I can do," he said ;
u the rest is in the hands of Heaven ! "

HOW THE NEWS REACHED ME.

On Rumour's tongues continual slanders ride."

While my darling lay oscillating 'twixt life
and death, while my dearest friend was shivering
and starving amongst those jail-birds, I
was lounging in my easy-chair, in my cosy
chambers, toasting my feet before the fire,
sipping my tea, and trifling with my ham and
eggs.

At this moment Mrs. Gibson, the housekeeper,
brought in " The Daily Scorcher"*
After glancing over the telegrams, the first

thing that caught my eye was the following

sensational announcement : —

By Special Telegram from our own Correspondent.

RIOT AT A THEATRE.

GREAT DESTRUCTION OF LIFE AND
PROPERTY.

AN ACTOR ARRESTED UPON A CHARGE
OF ARSON AND MURDER.

SUICIDE OF MISS CLARA TREVOR!"

I could scarcely collect my senses to read
what followed.

I have extracted this precious composition
from my note-book, exactly as it appeared,
and here it is : —

Last night, as Mr. Herbert, the tragedian, was on his
way to the Theatre at Claremount to enact the part of
Benedick, he was arrested upon a charge of arson and
murder !

It is rumoured that the beautiful and accomplished
Miss Trevor, who was devotedly attached to the wretched
man, upon hearing of his arrest, immediately became distraught,
and committed suicide !

It is certain that the unfortunate lady rushed off the
stage in the midst of the performance, and was last seen
running madly in the direction of the river, on the banks
of which, her opera cloak was found, some hours later.

The performance announced could not take place ;
and in consequence of the refusal of the manager to
return the audience their money, a riot ensued, amidst
which the theatre was sacked, great destruction of property
occurred, one man was killed, and seventy or eighty
persons were wounded. A large body of police was called
in, under the direction of Chief-Constable Handley, and
after some time order was restored."

One moment I stood dazed ; the next I
was in the Strand, hailing the first cab ;
half an hour later I was at King's Cross.
Too late ! The express had just gone ! The
next train did not leave town until five
o'clock. I drove back to Clerehead's office ;
he was not there, so I scrawled a hasty note
telling him of my departure, and at five
o'clock I started for Claremount.

Immediately on my arrival, I rushed to the
theatre. It was closed ; but I gathered from
the hall-porter, in addition to all the reader
already knows, that Mrs. Le Blanc, and
Thompson, the manager, had followed Clara
to Bolingbroke, before I had even started

from town. There was some comfort in
that.

The last train had left hours ago, so I
could not get away until the morning. There
was no help for it but to put up at the
King's Head."

Mrs. Jenkins gave me fuller and more
accurate information about the unfortunate
occurrences of the previous night ; and the
poor old coachman, who had just got back,
awfully knocked up, gave me the particulars
of Clara's journey as far as he could.

I telegraphed Mrs. Le Blanc, who replied,

If you wish to see her alive, you have not a
moment to lose."

I would have started there and then, but
there was no possibility of obtaining a conveyance
; so I had to watch and wait until
daybreak.

Oh, God ! that night of horrors ! I shall
remember it, were my life to stretch out to
the crack of doom."

By the first train I was on my way to
Bolingbroke. I thought that miserable railway
journey would never end ; it seemed as
if I could have walked the distance in half
the time.

At last ! at last, I reach my destination.
Scarcely waiting for the train to stop, I leap
forth. The people evidently think me mad, for
the crowd opens and gives way. I spring
into the first conveyance. " The White
Hart ! the White Hart ! " I cry.

The poor, bony old hack shies every
minute, and can scarcely keep his legs as he
struggles along before the miserable ramshackle
shandrydan to which he is yoked.

Presently we emerge into the High Street,
at the opposite end of which I see the sign of
The White Hart" flapping in the wind. I
spring out, leaving my tardy charioteer to
follow at his leisure. I run, fast as my legs
can carry me, some three or four hundred
paces to the inn.

As I approach the archway, a little, bright
creature, with fair hair and smiling face,
greets me ; I learn afterwards she is Macdonald's
wife. Bless her heart ! She seems
to know me instinctively, for she calls out —

This way, sir, this way, Mr. Penarvon ! M

She flies before me ; her feet scarce
touching the ground ; I follow fast as she
can lead up the broad staircase. I have no
lameness now ; by God's blessing that day I
recovered the use of my disabled limb, and
have never been lame since.

She stops at a door ; on the threshold I
encounter a little man, with a large bald head
a huge aquiline nose, and keen bright eyes,

fi The doctor ! " cries my flying fairy.

Only two words," I say. " Is she alive ? "

Alive."

And safe ? "

Look ! " says the doctor, as he throws the
door wide open.

There stands Mrs. Le Blanc, a smile

upon her face, and there lies my darling,
pale as death, but breathing placidly as an
infant.

I grasp her soft, white hand in mine.
Thank God ! it is warm and full of life. I
cover it with kisses, I moisten it with tears ;
I fall upon my knees beside her, and my
heart wells forth in prayers of gratitude to
Him who has snatched her from the jaws of
death and given her back to me.

IN HADES (DAY THE SECOND).

11 1 hear it — I see it, but it's a prodigy that nature can't
believe."

That very morning at six o'clock, an hour
before I started for Bolingbroke, Herbert had to
undergo the ordeal of the preceding day ;
only this time, they did not go through the
ceremony of inviting him to breakfast, even in
the paupers' ward.

He asked if there was a letter for him ;
there was none. He sat and brooded and
wondered how they had got on at the theatre
the previous night ; if Clara had received his

note, and why he had not heard from her, or
the manager. The more he thought over the
matter, the less explicable did it appear.

Previous to going to church, a strange man
came into the ward, accompanied by one of
the turnkeys who had escorted Herbert to
his cell on his arrival.

Any new arrivals ? " enquired the stranger,
in a somewhat abrupt and imperious tone.

Yes," said Herbert, springing to his
feet, " I believe I am the last arrival."

The man looked at him from head to foot,
and then enquired of the turnkey —

(( Do you know anything of this person ? "

Yes, sir," replied the fellow; " he was
drunk and disorderly when he was brought in."

A lie ! " retorted Herbert, in indignant
amazement.

My good man," said the stranger, " that
is not the way to speak to an officer in discharge
of his duty ; when you have learnt
proper language, I'll listen to you."

11 But I want to see someone in authority,"
exclaimed Herbert, as the door was slammed
in his face ; and the stranger, whoever he
was, left the room.

Half-past ten — church again.

About that very moment, finding Clara out
of danger, I enquired for poor Jack, but Mrs.
Le Blanc could give me no information
beyond the fact that he had been arrested,
and was, she believed, in Bolingbroke Gaol.

Just then I had a message from Mr.
Thompson, the manager, who was waiting to
see me in the coffee-room.

The little man was sorely distressed, and
explained his position with as much delicacy
as possible, taking care, however, to impress
upon my mind very decidedly, that as Forehead
had made the engagement, he,
(Thompson) would be compelled to hold
him responsible for its fulfilment. I explained
to him, that I should only be too happy to do

all I possibly could to aid him, and that, in
point of fact, I was then on my way, to arrange
for Herbert's immediate release.

We walked down to the prison together.

Upon explaining our business to " Redhead,
" he gruffly replied that Herbert was
certainly in prison, but beyond that he knew
nothing.

Could we see him ? "

Certainly not, without a justice's order.
It was not visiting day till Monday next."

Could we see the Governor? "

No ; he was out for a drive."

We could elicit nothing more, except a few
gruff monosyllables.

Thompson, who knew his way about better
than I did, tried the fellow with half-a-sovereign,
upon which he thawed directly, and told us the
amount for which Herbert was incarcerated, and
even undertook to deliver a letter to him.

By this time the debt had reached a
hundred pounds.

I had not a hundred shillings about me, so
we went direct to the Telegraph Office, and I
wired Clerehead, to send me a cheque. In an
hour's time, I got a reply from him, simply
desiring me to meet him at Bolingbroke
Station, on the morrow, at three o'clock.

While I was arranging for Jack's deliverance,
he was being marched, once more,
to the paupers' ward.

Again the same cruel farce of dinner, again
his gorge — all hungered as he was — rose at
the filthy fare.

He was absolutely dying of starvation,
while I was within a few hundred yards of
his prison, " eating of the fat and drinking
of the sweet," yet absolutely debarred,
from coming near, or helping him, in anyway.
Even the very letter which I left
for him, had to pass through some precious
red-tape ordeal, and was not permitted to be

VOL. III. D

delivered until the next day, when, as will be
seen, it was too late to be of service.

At this time poor Jack must have died, had
not a good Samaritan, in the shape of a
gigantic railway engine driver, taken compassion
on him. This man had been committed
for contempt of court, because he refused to
pay a bill, which his stupid, thriftless wife had
run up for some shoddy stuff, with a scoundrel
of a talisman.

Dick Griffiths, as he was called, was a
rough diamond, but he had a heart of gold.
Fortunately, he was the only man in all the
place who recognized Herbert. He was a
Castletown lad, had seen Jack act repeatedly,
and the honest fellow's heart bled to see him
in this place.

Now Dick was just in the act of preparing
his dinner, when Herbert, faint and famished,
staggered back into the gentlemen-debtors'
ward. There he sat with his arms folded on
his chest, shivering and shrinking, but looking

at Griffiths' preparation with curious, but
hungry eyes.

Indeed, at that moment, honest Dick was
an interesting study.

On the table is a large pewter pot of stout,
a couple of plates, a small wire gridiron, a new
quartern loaf, a pat of butter, and a huge
beefsteak.

Dick is preparing half-a-dozen large kidney
potatoes, and placing them on the fire to boil.
He then takes from his pocket, a small writing
ruler, with which he hammers away at the
steak, until he has apparently reduced it to a
proper state of tenderness. This done, he
salts and peppers it to his satisfaction, then
down it goes in the gridiron, on the fire, and
down go the plates beside it.

As he manipulated the steak, its delicious
odour permeated the whole place. The
potatoes are boiling ; it is really a supreme
moment.

The porpoise-like parson, wakes up lazily,

eagerly sniffs the savoury mess, smacks his
lips, and casts a lustful eye on the banquet !
Dick takes the potato-pan, says pleasantly,
but gravely, (under the circumstances one
might almost have been tempted to say
"gravity") —

11 Mates, I'm going' to strain my magnum
bonus, and that man as goes putting' his
nose into my pewter, or bobbin' round my
cooking apparatus, him and me, has got to
come to cues, when I come back ; that's all."

During his absence no man ventures to go
near either his pewter or his " apparatus."

He comes back quickly, places the pan on
the fire, sprinkles a little salt over the potatoes,
puts a coarse towel atop, to absorb the
steam, gives the steak another gentle turn,
and produces a knife and fork. Deftly dropping
the meat on one of the plates, he puts
half the butter over it, and finishes up artistically,
with another sprinkle of pepper and
salt. Having placed the banquet on the

table, he divides the huge steak into two
equal parts, putting one half on one plate,
and retaining the second half on the other ;
then turning round to Herbert, and politely-taking
his cap off, he says —

Now, then, your honour, begin' your
pardon, you and me has got to dine together
to-day ; that's what we've got to do, if you
ain't offended, and I ain't too bold ?

Was there anybody a-larfin' there ? 'Cos
by-and-bye I'm coming round to leave my
card."

But no one was laughing ; they knew
better.

The two men fell to, with an appetite.
Herbert thought he had never tasted anything
so delicious in his life ; so, thanks to
honest Dick Griffiths, Jack did not die of
starvation that day."

Eight o'clock came ; again the cell ; again
the blessed balm of sleep.

So ended his second day in Hades !

IN HADES (DAY THE THIRD).

Can such things be ? "

NEXT morning, as usual, Jack was routed out
at six o'clock ; this time he was introduced
to a new experience.

Outside the cell stood the two warders* of
the first night. One of them bawled out —

This way, 75."

75 " followed quietly and without a word
into the scullery, where one of the turnkeys
peremptorily ordered him to take a bucket of
water and carry it out.

"Are you mad — or am I?" demanded
Herbert.

Dick Griffiths, who was being put to the
same task, whispered —

(( Don't rile 'em, capon, or the beasts can
make it hot for you. I'll carry your bucket,
and see what's going' to turn up — anyhow, we
shall be together, and you and me's a match
for more than half-a-dozen of these waistrels,
any day in the week."

So saying, he took up the two buckets of
water.

One warder strutted before, Griffiths came
next ; Herbert, half-dazed, followed as if in a
dream, while the other turnkey brought up
the rear.

In a few minutes they reached a distant
corridor, where they found the poor artist and
the venerable white-headed old gentleman
before referred to, upon their knees scrubbing
and holy-stoning the stone flags and
steps of the !

Herbert's heart revolted at the sight, and
he could scarcely believe the evidence of his
senses.

What could it all mean ? Were these
men convicts ? Was he a felon ?

He was not kept long in doubt. One of
his jailors said —

Yesterday you wanted to see ( someone
in authority ; ' well, here is someone in
authority."

And he indicated a great obese person, in a
sort of military undress, who was seated on a
high wooden stool, with his legs crossed, his
arms folded, his back leaning against the
corner of an office of some kind which stood
exactly in the centre of the passage. The
man was almost as broad as he was long ; he
had the eyes and hair of an Albino, the face
of an owl, an enormous head, and no neck to
speak of ; his back and chest protruded in
equal proportions — suggesting a gigantic
caricature of our old friend Punch. His legs

swayed lazily to and fro, while he affectionately
nursed his folded arms, resting
each elbow in the palm of the opposite
hand.

This gentleman was Major Whelks, the
Governor. Herbert thought he was by no
means a pleasant person to look at.

Beside him, note-book and pencil in hand,
stood a man in prison uniform, almost as
peculiar-looking as the Governor himself.
This was Jinks, his second in command, a
stalwart, black scrub-bearded six-footer, who
stood as if he had a ramrod up his back, and
who had the most remarkable snub nose ever
seen on human countenance.

The Albino blinked his eyes at Herbert
and Griffiths, and said, in a harsh, imperious
voice —

Nos. 75 and 92, take off your coats ! Do
you hear? Take off your coats ! "

"Take off my coat!" said Herbert.
"For what?"

The Major had a peculiar habit of yelping,
"What! what! what!" or "Tut! tut!"

Whenever he was " gravelled for lack of
matter' out came one or other of his favourite
interjections ; so he roared out —

"What! what! what! Prisoners dare
talk to me ! Tut ! tut ! Off with your
coat ! Do your booty, sirrah ! "

"Duty!" echoed Herbert.

"Yes, sir. Booty, sir! booty! What!
what ! what ! It's your turn, 75, and yours,
92, to do your share of the scrubbing, and
brushing, and holy-stoning ; so you'd better
look alive about it."

Herbert didn't deign to reply, but he turned
pale ; so did Griffiths. When brave men turn
pale, it is a bad look out for those who make
or meddle with them.

The Governor thought they showed the
white feather, so he beckoned the two turnkeys,
and told them to bring out from an
adjacent closet, a couple of scrubbing-brushes

and a couple of pieces of holy-stone. Then
he said, " Now strip them."

No, thank you," said Griffiths ; " I prefer
to strip myself."

So saying, he quietly took off his coat,
rolled up his sleeves, and stooped to the
bucket of water.

The two turnkeys now advanced to seize
Herbert, but, before they could lay hands on
him, a vigorous undercut from his left fist, lifted
the one literally off his feet, and landed him on
his back ; and a terrific right-hander, straight
from the shoulder, sent the other sprawling to
the opposite end of the corridor.

As soon as they could regain their feet, and
recover their senses, away they ran, bawling,
11 Murder ! mutiny! murder!"

Meanwhile, Griffiths had not stooped to
the bucket for nothing. With one dexterous
movement he soused the Albino from head to
foot, with another he sent the bucket flying
until it cannoned on the black-bearded

fellow's snout, and dropped him flat as a
flounder.

The artist and the old gentleman paused in
their ignoble occupation, and looked upon the
conflict with eager and sympathetic interest.

The Major, shaking himself like a Newfoundland
dog coming from the water, roared
out his everlasting " What ! what! what!"
Then he blew a shrill whistle, and roared,
Mutiny! murder!"

From the other end of the corridor came a
gang of warders and turnkeys ; then ensued
a hand-to-hand fight.

In vain did Herbert and Griffiths bowl over
their opponents like ninepins ; they were
over-matched — ten to one. In the end, they
were beaten and bludgeoned into senselessness,
and flung into the Black Hole !

PRACTICAL JAMES.

11 An ounce of common sense, is worth a cartload of
sentiment. '

Punctual to the moment, as three o'clock
struck, Clerehead arrived at Bolingbroke.

As he jumped out of the train, he exclaimed
—

11 Oh ! there you are, Bob. Just read this ;
then imagine, if you can, what a healthy time
I had of it, till I got your telegram."

He then thrust into my hands the last
edition of " The Daily Scorcher," in which
I read as follows : —

"AWFUL TRAGEDY AT BOLINGBROKE.

"From our own Correspondent.

u The mystery which enshrouded the disappearance of
Mr. Herbert and Miss Trevor from Claremount has at
length been unravelled. At daybreak on Tuesday morning,
the unfortunate lady, who was attired in the magnificent
stage costume, &c, worn in the part of Beatrice on the
preceding night, was found, drenched to the skin from
the tempest of the preceding night, and perfectly lifeless,
lying on the steps of the County Jail here.

A richly-embroidered purse, containing upwards of
three thousand pounds in Bank of England notes, was
discovered near the body !

The corpse was immediately removed to the Police
Station. A post-mortem examination will be held tomorrow,
and the inquest will follow in due course.

"Mrs. Le Blanc, the eminent authoress, and Mr.
Thompson, manager of the Theatre Royal, Claremount,
arrived here at midday on Tuesday to take charge of the
remains of the deceased ; and Mr. Robert Penarvon, the
celebrated dramatist, came down last night, by special
train, to superintend the preparations for the funeral.

"The Mayor, the Mayoress, and the Rector of St.
Asaph's have called on Mrs. Le Blanc and Mr. Penarvon
to offer their condolences on the melancholy occasion."

Second Edition.

Our correspondent telegraphs, that on the news of
Miss Trevor's death being communicated to Mr. Herbert,
who, at present, is immured in Bolingbroke Jail ; the unfortunate
gentleman, whose mental condition has of late

occasioned his friends much anxiety, became violently
insane, and has been placed under restraint in the lunatic
ward of the jail infirmary."

My first feeling was one of rage. " Could
I only come across i our own correspondent,'
and lay my stick across his shoulders ! " I
exclaimed.

Nonsense, nonsense," replied Clerehead ;
he must live. You've never been a penny-aliter,
and don't know what it is to want
copy. I do, and I've a fellow-feeling for this
poor d — , although he has given me fits, for
the past four-and-twenty hours. Simmer
down, and tell me all about it."

As we walked to the White Hart, I related
all that had occurred, as far as I knew it
myself.

"Poor Herbert!" said Clerehead, " he's
always in hot water. As for being in quod,
that's nothing — at least, not when you are
used to it. A friend of mine, used to take up his
winter quarters, regularly, for years, at White
Cross Street, and he was quite desole when that

ancient landmark was removed. As to going
off his " nut," I don't think Jack Herbert is
such an ass, as to do that for any woman,
dead or alive. Anyhow, we'll soon have him
out ; if we don't, it will be a bad look out for
Orpheus. Of course you know La Challoner
didn't act last night ? "

Good Heavens ! You don't say so ! "

I do, though, worse luck. A message
came for me to go to Morley's at five
yesterday afternoon. I found her in convulsions,
and that infernal paper crushed ina
lump upon the floor. I sent for Beaver,
who certified she would be unable to act fora
week, ( in consequence of a "domestic
calamity.' I thought that the neatest way to
put it. Then I had to cut back to the shop
to arrange for a change of programme."

"What did you fall back on?"

Oh ! ' The Master's Debut,' ' The Critic
and ' The Fool and the Fiddler.' "

But they have never acted ' The Critic' "

No, that rendered it more interesting.
They were ' apt, very apt ; defective in nothing
but words, phrases, and grammar.'

They went on, and read their parts.

i( It was altogether a lively exhibition.
Puff held the book, and when they stuck
he prompted, and when he stuck, the
prompter prompted him, in fact the prompter
was the most prominent performer. I don't
think I ever laughed so much in my
life."

Did the audience laugh ? "

No, they didn't ; that was the best of the
joke ; they hissed ! hissed as furiously as
the geese who saved the Capitol. If they
hadn't done so, we shouldn't have known
they were there, without the aid of a
microscope."

The house was not very good, then ? "

Oh ! I suppose we rang up to about forty
bob and finished to a ' fiver.'

VOL. ill. E

But here we are at the hotel. First give
me a glass of Madeira and a biscuit for I'm
famished, next tell me all about La Belle
Trevor, and then we'll get poor Jack out of
chokey."

11 THE BLACK HOLE."
11 Darkness and devils ! "

The door of i( The Black Hole " was roughly-thrown
open, and two pitchers of water, with
two hunks of brown bread, were thrust in ;
then, the door was closed with a bang, which
shook the place.

The noise recalled Griffiths to life ; but
Herbert remained as one dead.

Honest Dick had not the most distant idea
where he was, or how long he had been unconscious.
It might have been a minute, an

LIBRARY *■* —

UNIVERSITY OF i" !M " f *

hour, a day, a week, a month, a year, an age
for aught he knew.

In reality his swoon had extended barely
two hours !

His first sensation of returning consciousness,
was one dull throb of pain, occasioned
by his aching bones.

As a rule, he invariably slept like a top.
On Sunday, which was really a day of rest to
him, he always slept till mid-day, and then,
even when the noonday sun streamed in, he
had the power to keep his eyes almost hermetically
sealed. Through being endowed
with this happy faculty, and having, as he
used to say, eyelids tanned by the wind and
the fiery breath of the engine, until they were
opaque as leather, he did not at first discern
the depth of the darkness which environed
him. He did, however, realize that he was
lying somewhere on the bare stones, and that
there was a certain unaccustomed density in
the air. Then he opened his eyes. Of course

he could see nothing. He put his hands up
before him ; but the darkness did not increase,
in fact it could not, it was so intensely dark
already.

Ah ! then it leaped through his mind at
once — the struggle — the fight ; he was immured
in the " Black Hole !"

If he were only free ; if he were only once
more amongst those cowards, he would let
them see !

See? See what? Great Heavens! He
can't see the hand before him.

This darkness is not the darkness of the
ordinary night ; it is the Egyptian darkness,
which can be felt, the darkness of the everlasting
stagnation of the tomb !

The poor wretch is unnerved and horror-stricken.


He had heard of the " Black Hole " at
Calcutta. He had read, " It's Never too late
to Mend ! "

He had sympathized with the sufferings of

poor Tom Robinson ; his heart had responded
with honest indignation, to the eloquent and
impassioned protests of the great writer.

How well he recalled when and where he
had first read the story.

He had borrowed the book from the library
of the Mechanics' Institute at Castletown ;
had played truant and run away to a greenfield
by the river, where he lay the whole
long summer day devouring the enthralling
narrative, swallowing every word of it, until
night surprised him.

How hungry he was. He had eaten nothing
but a bit of bread and an apple all day.

When he got home his father gave him a
hiding ; but his mother, bless her heart,
brought his supper up to his bedside.

Next day the schoolmaster gave him another
thrashing. Psha ! what did he care for that ?
All the licking in the world couldn't beat
George Fielding, and Susan Merton, Isaac

Levi, John Meadows, Tom Robinson, and
Lackey out of his brains.

He remembered also, that, a few weeks
afterwards, the play, founded upon the book,
was announced, " first time on any stage"
(yes, even before it was acted in London),
at the Castletown Theatre !

It was produced under the superintendence
of the author himself, and Tom begged or
borrowed sixpence, and fought his way
through the crowd with another boy, a
chubby-checked Anglo-Russian (who has
since become a popular dramatist, and
a London manager!) into the " top hoyle."

So far his memory soared through time and
space, but his eye could see nothing.

There is a limit, however, even to the potency
of darkness, and his mind's eye now saw clearly
enough, the stalwart, leonine author in the
private box, to the left, of the stage.

Again, he saw poor Tom Robinson, engaged

in the terrific struggle with the warders, as they
sought to drag him into the Hell Hole below.
And now, after all these years, he was in the
Black Hole himself. Yes, there he was sure
enough ; there could be no doubt about that !

But where was his comrade in misfortune
all this time ?

Capon, Capon ! are you there ? " he asks.

All is silent ; there is no answer. He hears
nothing, nothing save the beating of his own
heart.

The silence enhances the horror.

He tries to recollect how long poor Robinson
was immured. Was it six, or twelve, or
twenty-four hours, or was it forty-eight ? He
can't remember.

Being in an agony of pain, and burning
with fever, he is parched with thirst, and
famished with hunger. Oh ! for meat and
drink !

As he involuntarily extends his feet they

come in contact with some slight obstacle
which turns over, and, as it falls, emits a hollow
sound.

What can it be ?

He leans forward and feels with outstretched
hands.

It is one of the pitchers of water, he has
overthrown.

Ha ! what's this he feels within his grasp ?
Bread ! Bread !

He tears it to pieces and devours it ravenously.


The pangs of hunger are partially assuaged,
but he is now consumed with a raging thirst.
He extends his body on the ground, face
downwards. In his agony, he thrusts his
parched tongue into the crevices of the stone
in the futile effort, to lick up some drops
of the precious liquid, which is running to
waste on the foul floor. At this moment,
his outstretched hand comes in contact
with the other pitcher. God be praised !

the generous, life-giving fluid is within his
grasp.

No traveller over the parched plains of
Sahara could ever greet the oasis in the desert,
with more gratitude, than our poor, fevered
engine-driver, the discovery of that jar of
water, in the darkness of his prison.

He now takes heart of grace, and tries to
laugh himself out of his fears ; he invokes
the aid of " Old King Cole, the jolly old soul,
and his fiddlers three. "

It's no use — King Cole is an impostor.
Neither he nor his fiddlers are of the slightest
use in the present emergency, and poor Dick
is more despondent than ever.

His distempered imagination now conjures
up another horror — in fact, a succession of
horrors.

Bolingbroke Jail has been in existence
since the time of the Conquest. In ages
gone by, a Royal favourite, a profligate
Queen's paramour, had been done to death

within these gloomy walls ; a King of England
had been left there to die of famine ! Their
bones may be lying festering and mouldering
here, around him and about him. He may
stumble through a death-trap, and be engulfed
in some slimy, horrent abyss beneath
his feet !

At this moment he sees, or thinks he sees,
two rays of phosphorescent light gleaming
through the darkness.

It must be remembered that, though physically
brave, with the bulldog's brute courage,
this man was a poor, ignorant fellow.

Many a time, when a child, he had been
put into the dark corner for being naughty ; "
many a time had he been terrorized by the
threat of sending " Bogy " to him in night and
darkness. Nay, more, his spiritual pastors and
masters (dear creatures !) had taught him to
believe implicitly in the material existence of
"Bogy" — a great, black, grisly brute, with
bristling hairs, and horns, and hoofs, and tail,

with breath of flame and eyes of fire. And
now the beast had come ! Yes, there he was
opposite, with his blazing orbs, waiting to
spring upon him, and drag him down — down
to the everlasting lake of fire and brimstone !

For a moment Dick's heart stood still ;
then his Island blood was all aflame, and the
poor, demented creature roared out —

Come if you dare, d — you ! You've got
a man before you."

And he clenched his fist, and ground his
teeth, and planted his back to the wall, and
awaited the onslaught !

Over the darkness, and through the silence,
a soft, sad voice murmured —

Caroline, my darling, come back to me —
come back ! "

Then Dick cried, " Bogy be beggared ; it's
the capon himself ! Cheer up, sir, cheer up !
It's only Dick Griffiths. Keep up your
pecker, keep up your pecker, capon! " and he

groped his way through the darkness to
where Herbert lay, in the opposite corner.
Dick tried to make him speak, but the only
answer he could elicit was the plaintive
refrain of —

Caroline, come back to me, my darling —
come back ! "

It's his sweetheart he's going' on about,"
said Dick. " Poor chap, poor chap ! it's no
use a-talkin' to him now."

He was right, for presently Herbert ceased
to speak, or even to breathe !

Then a greater fear fell upon Griffiths.

"My God!" he cried, "he's dead! And
I shall die, too, if they don't come and let
me out of this cursed place."

Another terror was now added to those
which had already unnerved the poor engine-driver.


He would have met death face to face by
daylight without flinching, but he was afraid
of being alone in the darkness, with death !

At the very thought he sprang to his feet.
He battered against the walls ; he tore at
them with his hands, till they were bruised and
bleeding; he cried, he laughed, he shouted,
he shrieked, he blasphemed. At last, in the
agony of his despair, he cast himself headlong
on the floor of the cell ; and with the
impinge he, too, lay there senseless.

How long he remained thus he never
knew ; but when consciousness returned, the
haunting horror came back tenfold — he was
alone, alone with darkness and death.

At this very moment, when his brain was
racked, almost to bursting, he heard a loud,
regular, stertorous breathing. With a wild
cry, the poor fellow shrieked out, " He's
alive ! thank God ! Capon, dear heart, cheer
up ; I'm a-comin'."

Directed by the sound, he once more made
his way to the spot where Herbert lay. Then
he put his arms round poor Jack's neck and
rested, and rocked his head upon his breast,

nursing him the while like a woman, and
crying like a child.

Those tears saved Dick Griffiths from
madness.

Now these centuries of agony occupied
barely eight hours — but such an eight hours !

At the dinner hour (half-past two) the door
was thrown open, and the voice of the turnkey
was heard calling out sharply —

Now then, Nos. 75 and 92, clear out ! "

Receiving no reply, he cast the light of his
bull's-eye over the place, till it reached the
corner where Herbert was lying all unconscious
in the other's arms. When the men
entered, Griffiths whispered, " Hush ! hush !
or you'll wake him."

Ah ! there was little fear of that.

Even those hearts of stone were touched.
They lifted Herbert gently and carried him
forth.

Griffiths, though dazed and half blinded

with the sudden light, disdained all help for
himself, and followed like a lamb.

When they laid poor Jack on his pallet
more dead than alive, they tried to persuade
Dick to leave him, alleging there was no
danger, and that they would send for the
doctor.

Send for him while I'm here then, mates,"
said Griffiths.

We have sent for him," replied one of
the men, " but he's out, and won't be back
for an hour or two."

Very well, then ; I ain't in a hurry, and I
can wait till he comes."

But it's contrary to discipline."

Oh ! discipline be d — d," replied Dick;
here I am, and here I stick! "

Alarmed at Herbert's condition, and finding
it useless to remonstrate with Griffiths,
they left him mounting guard over his friend's
body, like the faithful hound in the story.

And here I pause to ask how is it that the
law of the land, still provides bankrupt merchants,
promoters of bubble companies, and
gigantic swindlers of every description with
absolute immunity from arrest — nay, more,
by some occult process, permits them to
retain splendid mansions, plate, pictures, carriages,
horses, and the like, which should
belong to their creditors, while honest,
struggling men, who have the misfortune to
incur some paltry, miserable, debt, are imprisoned
like thieves, disciplined like felons,
starved, insulted, tortured, and condemned to
manual labour of so degrading and so loathsome
a character, that the details can scarcely
be hinted at, far less described, in these
pages ?

VOL. III.

OUT OF HADES.

Free again, free ! "

As Clerehead and I, were making the best of
our way to the Castle, we encountered the
little manager from Claremount, and the
equally little Dr. MacFarlane. I introduced
them to Clerehead, and they offered to accompany
us.

It soon transpired that our friend the
doctor, cherished an utter detestation for the
Governor, to which he gave utterance at every
eligible opportunity.

When we got to the jail and requested to

see Herbert, M Redhead " replied, as usual —

No prisoner can be seen without an
order from the visiting justices."

Clerehead retorted —

Visiting justices be blanked ! We don't
want those idiots' permission to pay a debt.
My friend is arrested for debt, contempt
of court, whatever else you gentlemen
choose to call it, and I'm here to pay the
money. Mind, I tender it now. I call these
gentlemen to witness it's a legal tender. Bank
of England notes. D'ye see? D'ye see?"
and he flourished a handful of Bank of England
notes under the fellow's nose. " Now refuse
at your peril, and I'll bring an action for false
imprisonment. Here's my card; take it to
the Governor."

After a pause of irresolution <l Redhead "
snatched the card, and slammed the wicket in
our faces.

In a short time he returned, and without a
word conducted us to the Governor's room.

The Major made no attempt at even the
appearance of politeness. He opened fire
with his everlasting —

What — what — what — what do you want,
good people ? Be quick, for my official
duties leave me no time for ceremony."

No, nor civility either," responded Clerks
with a delicate drawl.

What — what — what do you mean ? "

What I say. I suppose you're the
Governor of this place?"

"Suppose I am the Governor? I am the
Governor, sir! "

Very well ; my friend John Herbert is in
your custody, on suspicion of debt. I'm hereto
pay whatever he owes, and take him away."

Tut — tut — tut. It's after hours. Money
must be paid to proper official in the office,
and in office hours, 'twixt ten and four. It's
now a quarter past four, and my dinner's
waiting."

It will have to wait, then ! "

What — what — what ! Do you know who
you are speaking to ? "

"I'm speaking to you, a public servant;
to my servant, for the matter of that."

The Governor gasped and became purple
with rage. Then he touched a nob in the
wall, and turning round he confronted the
doctor.

Doctor Anderson," he growled, " I expect
this is some of your dirty work, bringing this
person here to insult me ; but I'll be even
with you, as sure as my name is Samuel
Whelks."

The little doctor took stock of his enemy
from head to foot, and said —

You even with me — you ! Why, you —
you cross between an Albino and an alligator,
if you were skinned, and dried, and stuffed,
I wouldn't promote you to the dignity of a
doormat out-side my dispensary ! "

Despite our anxiety, Clerehead and I
couldn't help laughing at the little man's

superb disdain and the Governor's impotent
rage.

At this moment the door was thrown open,
and the black-bearded fellow with the snub-nose
(no longer snub, but bulbous) entered.
Decidedly this gentleman's appearance was
by no means improved by the application of
Griffiths' water bucket.

Jinks," said Whelks, " show these people
the door, and if you've any difficulty call the
men and put them out ; you understand."

Jinks was either not a man of many words,
or he was out of sorts from the fracas of the
morning, so he merely made a curt military
salute to his superior, and, turning to us h
pointed to the door as he said —

Now then, out you go ! "

Finding no response, he strode up to Clerks
and said, in the most insolent manner —

Do you mean to go out quietly, or am I
to chuck you out ? "

Mr. Jinks," said Clerehead, getting very

pale, " if you've any regard for your health
you'll not try an experiment of that kind with
me."

Nor with me," said I ; " two can play at
that game."

"Three, sir— three!" interjected Thompson,
swelling like a turkey cock. Then the little
man said, with dignity, " Mind what you're
about, my good fellow ; I'm a ' chucked-out '
myself! "

As for me," said the doctor, " dare to
lay a finger on me, and I'll slip my lancet
into you, you son of a sore-headed kangaroo ! "

Mr Jinks concluded not to try the experiment
with any of us, but retired in graceful
confusion.

Then Clerehead, addressing the Governor,
said —

Look here, Mr. What's-your-name, since
it is evident courtesy is thrown away upon
you, I'll speak to you in a language you
understand. Would it surprise you to learn

that I have the honour of being personal
acquainted with the Home Secretary ? If
John Herbert isn't out of this infernal hole
within the next half-hour I'll make it too hot
to hold you, and your friend, Mr. Jinks, here
into the bargain. I shall wait your answer for
just ten minutes, and if I don't hear from you
by that time, I shall do myself the pleasure of
telegraphing to the Home Office."

So saying, he walked out of the room, and
we followed.

In considerably less than five minutes Mr.
Jinks came to us and said —

This way, gents ; you mustn't mind him.
He generally gets cranky about dinner-time,
'specially if the fodder's kept waiting."

He's aye so," growled the doctor; " in
fact, it's the normal condition of the brute ! "

Jinks conducted us to the office where
Herbert had undergone examination upon his
arrival.

Clerehead paid the money due, and the man
in charge handed over the watch and chain,
cigar-case, Clerehead's cheque, &c, and the
latter signed a receipt for them.

Another bell, another turnkey, who is
ordered to release " No. 75." We are
desired to wait a few minutes while he is
getting ready.

We go out into the corridor, Clerehead
passes his cigar-case round, and in a minute's
time we are all four puffing away like steam
engines.

Our audacity overawes the official mind,
for when Jinks returns, he merely salutes and
says —

This way, gents ; unfortunately, there's
been a little muss this morning, a sort of free
fight amongst the prisoners in the debtors'
ward, and ' No. 75 ' has got an ugly knock
or two on the head."

We are shown into the waiting-room, where

we find Herbert propped up, and supported by
two warders, who were not present during the
melee.

Poor Jack's coat is torn to pieces, his face
and head bearing marks of severe ill-usage ;
his eyes are fixed ; he is alive, that is all, but
quite unconscious, and unable to speak, walk,
or even stand.

The doctor examines him carefully, shakes
his head. The men are nervous and embarrassed.
We demand an explanation, but
can only elicit that " No. 75 has been in a
little muss, that's all."

Mr. Jinks, who evidently has remembered

Clerehead's advice, has made himself scarce.
I am furious as a wild beast, Clerehead is
little better. We demand to see the Governor ;

he, too, has regard for his health, and is not to

be seen again.

While we are fuming, and fretting, the

doctor and the manager, are lifting poor Jack

into the cab.

The doctor says —

While you're wasting your breath on yon
beast of an Albino, this poor lad is dying ; for
God's sake let's get him to the Infirmary at
once. It's a case of life or death."

And so, without another word, we proceed
to the Infirmary, where Herbert is put to bed
immediately.

The house physician is a young Irishman,
named O'Brien. He has walked Guy's
Hospital, is a great player, knows Herbert
and Clara well, knows Clerehead better ; in
fact, knows everybody connected with the
profession.

He joins the little Scotchman ; they inspect
Herbert together. They hold a hurried,
whispered consultation ; we await the result
with breathless anxiety.

Anderson comes out radiant, exclaiming —

11 Only concussion of the brain ! "

Only concussion of the brain ? " we echo,.
in alarm.

"Aye, and you may thank God it's na
worse ; I didn't like to alarm ye. I thought
it was a case of compound fracture, but we
can guarantee that in a few days ' Richard
will be himself again.' Eh, O'Brien ? "

I think we can," responds his colleague.

11 Thank God ! " I exclaim.

That's all right," says Clerehead. " Now,
I've invariably noticed that after a funeral ora
fight, the first thing Englishmen do, is to
dine. Dining is an excellent institution ; it's
the palladium of England's greatness. I've
had nothing to eat all day. We'll leave you
to put our poor friend straight, while we go
and order the grub. I shall take no refusal.
At seven, gentlemen, we shall expect you."

So at seven they came to the White Hart,
and, strange as it may appear, environed as
we were with trouble and anxiety, we contrived
to eat and drink, and Thompson, the
doctors, and Clerehead were actually quite
jolly over the walnuts and the wine.

After dinner the latter said —

Since I am sure you desire to serve our
unfortunate friends, I wish you would give usa
certificate of their condition for publication
in the London papers, and," with a sly wink,
just drop them as gently as you can.
Comprenez-vous ? "

"I think I do," responded O'Brien, with
another wink.

Oh, aye, a nod is as guide as a wink to a
blind horse," chimed in the little Scotchman,
and they wrote the certificates there and then.

Anderson left us to see how Clara was
getting on ; presently he returned, and reported,
that in eight or ten days hence, she
might be removed home.

Then I proposed we should accompany
O'Brien to the Infirmary, to see how Jack was
progressing.

Poor fellow ! he was still quite unconscious,
and kept continually murmuring, " Caroline,
come back to me, my darling — come back ! "

The business of the theatre demanded the
immediate presence of Clerehead and myself,
and we therefore arranged to return to
town, by the first train in the morning.

I felt it very hard to go away and leave the
dearest friends I had in the world in their
present condition. Both O'Brien and Mac Far-lane,
however, assured me that they would
see their patients every hour in the day, and
keep me posted in their progress — above all,
if either of them got worse, they would wire
me, so that, if necessary, I might be with
them.

My heart was too full for words, and I
scarce knew how to thank these good fellows,
so I merely shook hands with them. Clerks
however, was of a more practical turn
of mind, so he gave each of them a card.

Take this," said he, " and whenever you
come to town if you don't call on me I shall
take it as an affront. That card will admit
you to the best box in the Frivolity any night

in the year except on Ash Wednesday and
Good Friday, when that ass the Lord Chamberlain
compels us to put up our shutters ; but
even then, I think I may promise you a mutton
chop, and a glass of claret, eh, Bob ? "

Certainly," I answered; and so we bade
them good-night, congratulating ourselves
upon leaving our poor friends in such safe
hands.

As we walked back to the hotel together
Thompson, the manager, with some diffidence,
opened fire about the breakdown at Clare-mount.
Of course, his position was a serious
one, and we both felt for him. Fortunately
Grinangag," the great comedian of the
Frivolity, was not in " Orpheus," and Topsy
Toodle (the " Bright particular Star" of
the Music Halls, who had originally been
engaged for the title role) was on our
salary list: besides which, we had half-a-dozen
other people walking about doing

nothing. These, with a dozen ballet, would
make up a fairly efficient company to do
The Bragobras of Bagdad " and a couple
of comediettas, so Clerehead generously proposed
to send them for a fortnight, giving
Thompson their gratuitous services in compensation
for Herbert's and Clara's breaking
down. Thus the matter was settled to the
poor manager's satisfaction, and he returned
to Claremount with a lighter heart than when
he left it.

I may here mention that the " Bragobras "
recouped him for the loss he had sustained,
besides which, he brought an action for libel
against " The Scorcher," and gained swingeing
damages, so that on the whole he did not
do so badly by this unfortunate business.

The last thing before going to bed, I went
to bid Mrs. Le Blanc " good-bye," and to
ask how Clara was getting on.

Beautifully," she said. " Since you are

going away, if you are a good boy, you may
have just one little peep."

There lay my darling, pale as marble, and,
to all appearance, almost as motionless. Her
hands, whiter than her sheets, lay folded on
her bosom. She looked like one of those
white angels, I have seen reclining on a tomb
of Chantry's, somewhere in the Abbey.

As I gazed, an awe fell upon me.

M-may I ? " I falteringly enquired.

I'm not looking," said Mrs. Le Blanc.

I lifted the dear little hand to my lips and
kissed it reverently. Then, turning to Mrs.
Le Blanc, I took both her hands and kissed
them also.

You are our only friend," I said ; " to
your care I confide her. You will let me
know, day by day, how she progresses, and if
things should take a bad turn, you will not
keep it from me — promise me that."

I promise," she said, and so we parted.

As I left the room I encountered Clerks

ill. G

head in the lobby. He gave me a glum look,
and said —

11 Soho ! my friend, you may steal the
horse, but I am not to look over the hedge.
I came two hundred miles merely to
ascertain whether she was dead or alive,
and that old catamaran won't let me
come within a mile of her. I'm not pious
enough, I suppose. Never mind ! the stake
is not lost, till it's won, and we shall see —
what we shall see."

We shall," I replied.

Then we lighted our candles, and sought
our rooms in silence.

Laureate !

At eight in the morning we were on our way
to town together.

Clerehead was in his most cynical and
least agreeable mood, or perhaps I was.
Instead of his perpetual cigarettes he smoked
huge Savannahs all the way — a sure sign
that he was out of sorts. I smoked my pipe
in silence.

He bought all the magazines and papers,
daily and weekly, he could lay his hands on,
skimmed them through with great rapidity,
then littered the seats with them in every
direction.

Look here, Bob," he burst out at last, " I
know what you are thinking about as well as
if I were inside your skin. ' Now lay thy
linger thus, and let thy discreet soul be instructed.'
They'll both get better, that's
safe as houses ; but I was down in Harrogate
with them for a fortnight, and Jack Herbert
will no more marry Clara Trevor than I shall
marry Julia Pastrana. He and Caroline
Challoner are made for each other. If she
doesn't have him she'll ( live and die a
spinster, and pay the tax,' and if he doesn't
have her he'll die a bachelor. So cheer up,
there's a chance for you or me."

For you?" I exclaimed. " But I loved
her the first moment I saw her."

So did I," he replied ; " only you had the
first chance, and didn't make the most of it.
Now, it's no use getting waxy, or playing
dog in the manger. Confound it all ! If she
won't have you, who knows, but I may stand a
chance? Anyhow, when she gets better I

shall try my luck — so shake hands upon it,
and may the best man win."

u It is early times to talk about that," said
I, " but let it be as you wish."

At length we got to town. As we drove
from the station he said —

What the deuce are we to do about La
Challoner ? "

"How can I tell until I've seen her?"

That's true," said he ; " so we'd better
drive to Morley's at once."

When we were ushered into her room,
Caroline sprang up and approached us
eagerly.

The anxiety of the past two or three days
had told upon her. There were two deep
blue hollows beneath her eyes, which appeared
preternaturally large ; her long hair
streamed down her shoulders and over the
loose purple robe which flowed from head to

heel, without cincture, girdle, or restraint of
any kind.

"Well — well — well! Speak, or I shall go
mad ! " she exclaimed.

Be composed," said Clerehead ; " the
whole thing is a shameful canard. The
simple fact is, he was arrested for debt."

11 He is in prison, then ? "

He was ; but do you think it likely we
should be here, if he were still there ?"

You are very good, sir," she replied.

Mr. Penarvon," she continued, " you were
his friend. Tell me all ; I can bear it."

He is slightly indisposed — caught cold
upon the journey, and we have left him under
the charge of Doctor O'Brien."

An intimate personal friend of mine," interjected
Clerehead, eagerly. " See, here is
the medical certificate."

When she had read it, I think she would
have fallen to the ground, had we not caught
her in our arms, and supported her to a chair.

She sat cowering over the fire in silence
for a few moments ; then springing to her feet,
and ringing the bell, enquired —

M May I offer you some tea ? "

When we had taken tea, she rose, and
said —

You must excuse me, but it is time to goto
the theatre, and I — "

She tottered towards the door, but Forehead
took her firmly, yet gently, by the wrist,
and leading her back to her seat, said —

Miss Challoner, you're not going to the
Theatre to-night ; and you shan't go at all if
you don't do what I tell you !

To-morrow morning, at twelve, I shall
come for you with my daughter Silly.
You wouldn't think it, but I've a daughter,
nearly as old as you are ; she lives with
my sister, who has a little cottage down
at Norwood ; and she's a highly respectable
old woman, though, perhaps, you
wouldn't think that, either. I shall drive you

down in my trap, and Milly and Penarvon
shall talk to you all the way. When you are
settled you will go with Milly to the Crystal
Palace daily — she knows every inch of it.
Penarvon shall come and see you every other
day, and when he doesn't come, I will ; and
what's more, I'll teach you to play whist!
If that doesn't cure you and make you say
once more —

' My soul's in arms, and eager for the play
why, then James Clerehead knows nothing of
human nature ! Not another word — now
mind, twelve tomorrow," and having conjured
up the shadow of a smile on her
face, he turned to quit the room ; then he
stopped abruptly, and said —

Bob, never mind the theatre — the poor
child is lonely ; you'd better stay awhile and
talk with her about old times."

The situation was awkward for us both —
we were continually treading upon delicate
ground.

She was under the impression that she
had been wronged, but her great love
leaped forth like fire whenever I mentioned
Jack's name ; yet there was great difficulty
in avoiding all mention of the " other one " —
besides, her woman's instinct had long since
told her that I adored her rival.

We had, however, many subjects of common
interest ; and time passed so quickly
that when ten o'clock came we were both
surprised. She pressed me to take supper,
and promised, if I would do so, that she would
join me, and she actually drank a glass of
claret, and ate the first mouthful of solid food
she had tasted for days.

At length the clock struck eleven, and I
rose to take my departure. Then she crowded
up to me, and said —

Mr. Penarvon, do you think he'll soon
get better? "

Yes, I do." I replied.

But are you sure ? "

11 Quite sure."

Thank you ; you were his friend — his
only one. He always called you Robert ;
may I call you so ? "

I shall feel flattered and honoured, Miss
Challoner."

"Call me Carry," she said; " he always
did."

"Well, Carry," I said.

That's right ; I'm so lonely. I haven't a
friend in the world except him and — you."

You forget Mr. Clerehead," I said.

Yes, oh ! yes, Mr. Clerehead. He's very
good and kind ; but he's a holiday friend,
while he and you were comrades, you know ;
but you — you love — her ? "

Dearer than life."

Then after a pause she enquired in tremulous
tones —

11 Do you think he does ?"

He esteems and honours her, but he loves
you, and you only."

The hot blood mounted over her brow. She
was radiant with happiness.

God bless you," she said, "you have
made me so happy. I shall get better soon ;
I am better already. Good-night."

As I passed down the corridor I heard her
singing the " Laudate " of Zingarelli.

I paused and listened to the glorious
melody. It seemed as if a hundred linnets
imprisoned in her throat, were leaping forth
to get free, and greet the sunrise, as the
jubilant words —

u Laudate pueri nomen Domine "
arose to Heaven.

DOCTOR CLEREHEAD.

'■ Pluck from the memory, a rooted sorrow,
Raze out the written troubles of the brain."

Clerehead had diagnosed Caroline's
malady accurately, and his treatment was
entirely successful.

The little cottage at Norwood turned out
to be an elegant villa residence, situate in its
own grounds, his sister a very charming and
accomplished widow of forty, and his daughter
was (and is, bless her heart !) an angel.

Caroline was yearning for sympathy, and
though she kept the great grief of her life

to herself, it was something inexpressibly
pleasant to have the companionship of this
young, fresh, and ingenuous mind.

Both girls had the same tastes. They
loved poetry and music, flowers and pictures,
and they did not disdain needlework ; they
read the same books, they sang, they played,
they even danced together.

It was difficult to realize that so innocent a
child as Milly could be the daughter of this
blase man of the world.

When I first saw her I couldn't help expressing
my astonishment at their relationship,
whereupon Clerehead flared up and said —

Is there anything astounding in my having
a daughter ? "

No," I replied, " there is certainly nothing
astonishing in your having a daughter, or
half-a-dozen daughters ; but such a daughter
as this ! ' Who from such a stem would look
for such a shoot ? ' "

u You are complimentary," he growled ;
but ah, you didn't know her mother," and
he left the room abruptly.

Presently, however, I saw him smoking his
cigarette on the terrace outside.

In half an hour's time he returned, and
began to try to initiate his patient into the
mysteries of his pet abomination, " whist."

During this short holiday, we had a musical
evening entirely to ourselves. Caroline had
asked me to bring down her violin, so we
made a fair quartette. She led with the
fiddle, Milly played the piano, I followed
with the flute, and Clerehead — yes, even
Clerehead, had his soft place — he played
on the violoncello, and played it well, too.

I think we all forgot our troubles that
pleasant Saturday evening.

Next day we took a walk with the girls
after church time, and Clerehead said —

Now, Miss Challoner, you're something
like yourself, and you must be in harness by
Tuesday, so you had better get back to town
tomorrow morning"

Papa," said Milly, " may I go up and see
Carry act ? "

My darling," he replied, gravely, "you
may go up, and you may come down, but you
can't see Miss Challoner act at present. Wait
till she plays Juliet, and then you shall have a
box, all to yourself.

Seriously, my pet, you may come and
stay with Miss Challoner any day in the week
from twelve to four, that, is, if she'll have
you. Yes, any day except Tuesday next,
when I'm sure she doesn't want to be bothered,
and Saturday and Sunday, when she has
whispered to me that she wants to come here,
that is to say, she wants to come down every
Saturday night and stay till Monday morning.
That's about it, isn't it, Miss Challenger
? "

Caroline assented with a smile.

We returned to town on Monday, in time
for a twelve o'clock rehearsal, so as to make
sure that all was smooth for the following
night.

Caroline had few acquaintances, and certainly
no friends, among the female members
of the company, and the " beggarly account
of empty benches " which ensued on her
withdrawal from the theatre, didn't enhance
their regard for the " provincial actress."

She, however, returned their aversion with
placid indifference, and passed them by as if
unaware of their very existence, but when
she stepped on the stage, the entire orchestra
rose, and applauded her like one man. Then
she collapsed into tears. A little kindness
easily touched that proud heart.

Clerehead was the best " showman " in the
world (except one, whom I prefer not to particularize

!), and he had availed himself of
every trick of that not very dignified calling
to direct attention to Caroline's reappearance.
The result was a densely crowded house, a
most enthusiastic audience, and all the outward
and visible signs of success.

VOL. in. H

THE BIRD HAS FLOWN.

11 Lost evermore to me ! "

EVERY day's post brought us more satisfactory
reports from MacFarlane and O'Brien as
to the condition of their patients, so leaving
Caroline to her triumphs, Clerehead and I
(for he persisted in accompanying me) went
down to Bolingbroke, in obedience to the
behest of Mrs. Le Blanc, to bring Clara
home.

Three weeks had elapsed since our last
visit, and we were surprised and delighted to

find her better even than we had dared to

anticipate.

She was dressed in a white peignoir

trimmed with a delicate green, her beautiful

hair flowing down one mass of curls, her face

very pale, her eyes preternaturally bright.

Heaps of flowers were around her, and about

her, and she was half sitting:, half reclining

in an invalid's chair. In her hand was an

open volume of {l In Memoriam." I had

time to notice these four lines, marked at the

side with a pencil — ■

I own ibis true, whate'er befal,
I feel it when I sorrow most,
'Tis better to have loved and lost
Than never to have loved at all ! "

She must have seen that I saw the passage,
for she coloured vividly, and rapidly closed
the book, as she murmured half remorsefully,
yet in scarcely audible tones —

How good you are to forgive me ! "
With that she timidly extended her hand,
but I made no sign to take it.

Here was I dying to pour forth my heart at
her feet, and yet I stood as one stricken
dumb.

After a moment's pause of mutual embarrassment,
she turned from me to Clerehead,
and extending both her hands to him, exclaimed
—

(( Ah, Mr. Clerehead, I'm so glad to see
you."

He stooped down and kissed them with
effusive ardour.

I felt as if I could have killed him on the
spot !

How kind of you to send this wonderful
chair, and the fruit and flowers, above all, the
books ; I adore poetry. But really you do
everything en monseigneur. I'm sure I don't
know what we should have done without
you."

He murmured something in reply which I
did not hear ; then he said aloud, banteringly
—

11 Well, Sir Knight of the rueful countenance,
don't you think we'd better see about
dinner? "

As you please," I replied, moodily, taking
up the " Times," and throwing myself in a
chair facing the window, but with my back
placed towards them.

Well, then, it pleases me to go and lookup
that hamper I brought from Formam and
Mason's, and to consult the cook about the
grouse." And so he left us.

Although I sat with my back to Clara,
the window before me was of plate-glass, and
reflected some strange optical illusions, or
delusions.

I was not reading the paper any more than
I am reading it now. Before me, in the
window, I saw reflected the fire, and the
couch on which reclined a fair woman in
white. I saw the table with the fruit and
the flowers. I noted with eager interest,
that, the moment he quitted the room,

she sprang up, looked round to see if she
was observed, then rapidly walked over
to another table, on which lay a large
Greek urn or basin, filled with water-lilies,
floating in their native element. She dipped
her dainty embroidered kerchief in the water,
and commenced scrubbing the backs of her
beautiful hands, just where he, a moment
before, had left the imprint of his lips. She
was as earnest in the operation as she used
to be in Lady Macbeth, when she was endeavouring
to obliterate " the damned spot."
When she returned to the couch I arose,
and went over to her, intending to speak.
She looked at me inquiringly, I thought
superciliously ; and — confound the fellow —
at this moment Clerehead returned, accompanied
by Mrs. Le Blanc. He was radiant
with good-humour, and made himself infernally
agreeable. I consoled myself a little
by thinking that perhaps he wouldn't have
been quite so radiant, if he had perceived

the little pantomimic performance, which had
taken place a minute ago.

We had taken the precaution to strictly impress
on our kind friends the doctors, not to let
either Mrs. Le Blanc or Clara, know anything
about Herbert's latest misfortunes. Therefore,
as soon as I could get the chance of
speaking to Mrs. Le Blanc alone, I begged
her to tell me, exactly, what she had told
Clara about Herbert. She informed me
briefly, that she had told her all she knew — ■
which was, in point of fact, that he had been
released from prison.

A fortnight ago Clara had enquired,
abruptly —

Is he still in Bolingbroke ? "

I believe so," the other replied.

And he has never been to see me — to
enquire for me ? "

Never ! "

For two or three days after that Clara sat

brooding, silent, and melancholy ; then came
the invalid chair, the fruit and flowers from
London, and the books. She buried herself
in " In Memoriam." Presently she began to
thaw, and then — " But you can see for yourself,
Robert."

We hoped to find Herbert fit for removal
to Norwood, as an agreeable surprise for
Caroline, on the following Sunday ; so while
dinner was preparing, we strolled down to the
Infirmary.

We met O'Brien at the very gate.

What have you done with Herbert?" he
enquired.

What have we done with Herbert ? What
do you mean ? " we both exclaimed.

"Mean?" replied O'Brien, "why I told
him this morning, you were both coming
down by the express, and he went to the
station to meet you."

Good God ! " I exclaimed, " is this coil

never to end ? We've not even seen him.
Come with us down to the station at once,
and let us enquire what has become of him."

To our horror, we ascertained that he had
actually left Bolingbroke by the very train by
which we arrived !

He had booked to Glasgow — that much
was certain, for the booking clerk not only
knew him, but as he had no money, he had
been obliged to leave his gold watch-guard
(which was of considerable value) in pawn ;
and the young man had not only advanced
his fare, but had lent him a pound besides,
on the same security.

How was this mystery to be explained ?

My course was clear ; I did not hesitate a
moment. My duty was to follow him. We
had an early dinner, then Clerehead, Mrs. Le
Blanc, and Clara went to town, by the express
that left at five. W T hen the guard had locked
the door, and she saw me remaining alone on

the platform, Clara enquired, I thought somewhat
wistfully —

Do you not accompany us then?"

No," I replied, curtly.

She seemed vexed ; anyhow, she looked at
me reproachfully, and her eyes were fixed on
mine to the last, while the train moved slowly
away, leaving me standing there alone.

The mail for Scotland did not leave till
eleven. Oh ! the weary, weary waiting of
those six mortal hours ! Every fugitive wind
of Heaven blew in every direction, through
every hole and corner of that miserable
station. The place represented the very
abomination of desolation. I walked up and
down the platform, until I had learnt by heart
every poster and advertisement. I went into
the waiting-room — no fire, of course ! there
never is one, in these places. I found the
good old book lying on a table, alighted by
accident on the story of Esau and Jacob,

read it, cast it down with anger, exclaiming,
What a dastardly skunk that Jacob must
have been ! " dashed out impatiently into the
rain, and walked on till I found myself, by
merest accident, before the Infirmary. Then
it struck me that I'd look up the doctor, and
see if I could obtain any further information
about Jack.

O'Brien was heartily glad to see me.
Sure it's a comfort," said he, " to see a
Christian in this God-forgotten hole. Come
along, and I'll give you a tumbler of poteen
that'll warm the cockles of your heart."

Over a pipe and a glass of punch, he informed
me that Dick Griffiths, having served
his time for contempt of Court, had called
only the day previous, to enquire how
Herbert was getting on.

The scene between Jack and his humble
friend was very touching. When it was over,
as Dick was about to leave the Infirmary,
O'Brien called him in, set his tongue going

with a glass of whiskey and water, and
elicited from him a full, true, and particular
account of the fight in the prison, and other
matters with which the reader is already
acquainted.

When Dick had done his thirty days, he
turned round to Jinks, and said —

I'm going' to see how the capon's getting'
on. If he's gone to Kingdom Come — and
he was on the way there — you can tell old
Whelks, with my compliments, when he and
the rest of you murdering' thieves are brought
up for manslaughter, I shall be there to give
my evidence. So put that in your pipe and
smoke it, Mr. Jinks."

With this parting shot, he came to see
Herbert. After his interview with O'Brien
he went home, and incontinently gave his
wife a hiding, like a bold British husband.
To be sure, that cost nothing buta
stirrup strap, in which he had invested
for the purpose ; and, to his simple mind,

it seemed a proper law of compensation as
far as it went. But it didn't go quite as
far as he wanted it to go ; so, as it happened
to be the day usually set apart for the tally-man's
weekly visit, he waited for him, and let
him have the stirrup strap, hot.

Ultimately, Dick had to pay forty shillings
for the luxury ; but he was quite content,
for, as he said, " he had had his money's
worth."

As for Mrs. Griffiths, she concluded not to
truck with that talisman any more, and he
very sagaciously concluded to steer clear of
Dick's diggings during his next journey ; and
here honest Dick disappears altogether from
this narrative.

The doctor told me, the wonder was that
poor Jack was not killed. He had patched
him up as well as he could, but he certainly
would never be the same man again. O'Brien
suspected at first, but now he was sure, Herbert
had a " kink" in his brain ; and that was

why he had made this precipitate retreat to
avoid his old friends.

It was now getting near the time of my departure,
so O'Brien offered to see me off. On
our way to the railway I called in at the police-station
to thank Macdonald, and his bonnie
little wife, for all their care and kindness to
Clara. The honest fellow gave me my
darling's purse, containing her three, hundred-pound
notes, and some five or six sovereigns,
but declined any compensation for his men ;
it was enough for him, he said, that he had
once seen Clara play Rosalind, but he would
be very glad if I could do anything to help
Cassidy, the Irish sailor, as the poor fellow
was in sore distress. I bequeathed the honest
Irishman the loose sovereigns, and bore in
mind Macdonald's recommendation. (En
parentheses, Mick Cassidy is now the bright,
active messenger, you may see any day in the
week at the Frivolity, and his wife is engaged
in the wardrobe.)

Just before the train started, O'Brien enquired
—

Is this card which Mr. Clerehead gave
me for only one, or for any night ? "

For every night," I replied, "while I amin
the theatre."

I'm Mad of that," he said, " for I'm oroinpf
to ( turn up ' this penal servitude, and get back
to the ' little village ' as soon as I can, so I
anticipate many pleasant evenings."

The train began to move, but he moved
with it to the end of the platform, as he
said —

Good-bye — good luck to you, Mr. Pearson.
The ( pleasantness evening ' I'll have in
this pig-sty-of-a-place will be the night before
I go away, when I'll call at 'The Hare and
Hounds' and give that infernal Albino the
finest bating he ever had in his life, or my
name's not Patrick O'brien"*

I am delighted to say that my friend Pat was enabled
to keep his word before he left Bolingbroke.

Next morning I was in Glasgow. I went
straight to Herbert's old theatre ; but no
one had seen or heard anything of him
there. I went to theatre after theatre ; enquired
in every direction, but no one knew
anything of my unhappy friend. 'Twas
evident I had made a bootless journey.

Previous to returning to town, I left instructions
with everyone I knew, to communicate
with me the moment he was seen or
heard of.

When I got back, Clerehead told me that
Clara had reached home safely, and, though
tired, was not much the worse for her fatigue,

Now," said he, " the next thing to do, is
to break the news about Herbert, to La
Challoner. The sooner she knows the better,
for nothing is so bad as suspense. / don't
shirk the job ; but you've known her longer
than I have — she will bear it better from you.
Go down with her to-night to Norwood ; tomorrow,

being Sunday, she'll have all the day
to get over it."

God knows my own troubles were hard
enough to bear ; but of course I went down to
Norwood, and, after supper, I got Mrs. Elton
andMilly to leave me alone with Caroline. Then
I told her as well as I could the bitter truth.

That she suffered much was plain, but she
bore it bravely.

After a pause, she asked —

Did he go away — alone?"

Quite alone," I said.

You're sure of that ?"

Quite sure."

Please don't tell these women here. I
don't mind your knowing, Robert, because
we both love him ; but I don't want strangers
to participate in a confidence, so sacred. You
know, of course, that Mr. Clerehead gives mea
large salary, more, I think, than I deserve.
I want something put in ( The Times ' — see,
something like this — "

VOL. III. I

She sat down and rapidly wrote the following
advertisement : —

If John Herbert, Esq., late manager of
the Great Northern Circuit, will communicate
with his friends, he will hear of something
greatly to his advantage.

As it is possible Mr. Herbert may have
been taken ill, during his recent journey to
Scotland, ^"ioo reward will be paid to anyone
forwarding his authentic address to
Robert Penarvon,

Frivolity Theatre, London."

I haven't asked if I may use your name,"
she said.

You knew, of course, that it was needless
to do so."

You will have that inserted every day
until we find him ? "

Yes."

Thank you. You have always been his
friend, henceforth you are my brother ! "

CHAPTER I.

DRIFTING AWAY.

Of all afflictions taught a lover yet,
Tis sure the hardest to forget."

Weeks and months have passed away.

Clara has gradually recovered her health,
but her mind seems sorely unhinged by the
recent events, or perhaps I only think so.
One thing, however, is quite certain — she is
strangely changed in her demeanour to me.
There is an inexplicable shadow cast between
us, which estranges us daily more and more.

It is no longer " Bob " or " Robert ; " it is
always " Mr. Penarvon" now. Instead of
coming forward to meet me with the old,
cordial welcome, she is reserved and distant —
perhaps I am a little so myself. I begin to
think that this frequently arises from Forehead's
presence, for I am no longer the only
invited guest. He is always at Florence Villa
on Sunday ; always alert, and agreeable even
to Mrs. Le Blanc. Formerly I was welcome
at all times — at all times spoiled, and petted,
by both ladies.

Though only a few years older than myself,
had Mrs. Le Blanc been my mother and I
her only son, she could not have been more
thoughtful and affectionate.

It is Clara only who is changed.

Formerly, when we went to the theatre, I
used to bring a couple of modest bouquets
from Covent Garden at a shilling each, and
she would prepare a nosegay for my buttonhole,
and place it there.

Alas ! how changed it all is.

Now, if there is a picture to be seen, a
concert to be given, a premiere to take place,
Clerehead has facilities, which I do not
possess, for securing the best seats, the best
boxes. For her sake he even accepts Mrs.
Le Blanc as her diaper one, though he dislikes
her, quite as much as she distrusts
him.

Punctual to the moment he turns up at
Florence Villa, always armed with the choicest
bouquets the Floral Hall can provide. When
the performance is over, he deposits the ladies
at the door of the villa.

Many a time have I waited for her return,
in the rain and the snow, till night changed to
morning. Amidst my misery, how grateful I
felt that they never once asked him in — that
would have made my cup of bitterness to
overflow.

One evening, at about eight o'clock, I
called to bring Mrs. Le Blanc half-a-dozen

excerpts I had made for her at the Museum,
for some book she was writing.

Clerehead's brougham was waiting at the
open door. Passing by the drawing-room, I
heard the two voices I knew so well, mingling
in low, pleasant laughter. I saw them standing
before the fire — he was in the act of handing
her a magnificent bouquet ; she was expressing
her admiration.

And now give me one little flower for a
bontonniere" he said.

Choose for yourself," she replied.

I could have done that before, but I want
to know, to feel sure, that your fingers have
touched the flowers."

She looked him straight in the eyes ; he
encountered her gaze without flinching.
Pausing for a moment, she lifted the bouquet
between her finger and thumb, as if it had
been a toad, or some other loathsome thing,
and made a movement, as if about to throw

it in the fire ; then, shrugging her beautiful
shoulders, she said, with a laugh —

Of course the king is welcome to his own
again. "

With that, she plucked forth a flower, and
placed it in his button-hole.

There, Monseigneur ! " she said. " I
really don't think you could have been better
served in the Floral Hall itself."

For answer he stooped and kissed her
gloved hand, and wrapped her opera cloak
around her ; then they moved to the other
end of the room.

At this moment, Mrs. Le Blanc, coming
rapidly downstairs, dressed for the theatre,
encountered me face to face in the hall.

Robert ! " whispered she, in alarm.
What's the matter ? Are you ill ? "

Placing my finger on my lip in sign of
silence, without one word, I glided stealthily

and swiftly from the house, glad to escape
further torture.

Truly " the jealous are the damned."
How I watched and waited for their return.
It was an awful night. But what were storm
and tempest to me ? Like the poor dis-crowned
king —

11 The tempest in my mind
Did from my senses take all feeling else
Save what beat there."

At length, at nearly one in the morning, I
heard the clattering of horses' feet, the
rumbling of wheels.

His brougham is at the door, he alights,
hands out the ladies, lifts his hat ceremoniously,
the door is closed, almost in his face ;
with a fierce gesture of impatience, he shrugs
his shoulders, pauses a moment, leaps into
the carriage, and is driven rapidly away.

The rain has ceased, the moon is shining
brightly ; drenched as I am from head to

foot, I wait and wait until I see the light in
her chamber.

Usually she looks out into the park the
last thing.

Will she do so to-night ?

At last ! She stands in the moonlight,
looking ineffably sad, and yet supremely
beautiful ; she sighs and closes the curtains.


It is time to be going homeward. I walk
towards town, and take the first cab I encounter.


God is good to me, and lets me sleep
sometimes — else, months of these bitter experiences
must have killed me.

THE DUKE.
A man ! I'll swear a man ! "

The " Orpheus fever" has set in.

Business at the Frivolity is enormous ;
indeed, unprecedented. A seat is not to be
had, for love or money, for months to come.
Traffic is interrupted nightly, by the crowds
who struggle to obtain admittance.

Caroline's photographs are in every shop
window. They are at a premium. You may

buy a large cabinet of the P or the

P ss for one and eighteen each.

Caroline's cannot be had for less than two

shillings. True, there is a cheaper mode of
obtaining the "counterfeit presentment" of
the fashionable beauty.

Certain society journals produce exquisitely
tinted lithographs, full-length autotypes, and
Heaven knows what, at popular prices. The
illustrated weeklies and magazines follow suit,
and the fever has even spread to the other
side of the Atlantic.

Van Vort has published the Orpheus Waltz
and the Orpheus Quadrilles, dedicated by
permission to Miss Caroline Challoner, whose
portrait appears in glowing colours on the
frontispiece.

The Orpheus cuffs, the Orpheus collars,
the Orpheus gloves, the Orpheus hat, the
Orpheus necktie ; nay, even the Orpheus
walking-stick have become the rage, and are
flaunted before us in the Row, the opera,
everywhere.

Fashionable painters and sculptors implore,
in vain, for the honour of a sitting. Society

journals teem with on-dits. She is the comet
of the season. The stage-door is mobbed
nightly by the Crutch and Toothpick Brigade
anxious to get a sight of their divinity. The
noble army of Masters declare on to Clerks
begging the honour of an introduction.
He replies to them all, with imperturbable
good humour —

No, dear boys, try it somewhere else ;
she's not one of that sort. We get on
capitally as it is, but she has a temper of her
own, and I hate rows."

One young fellow, with whom I had become
somewhat intimately acquainted, the young
Duke of Frogmore, used to come to my
rooms, continually worrying me to give him
an introduction.

It was in vain that I told him she was
"engaged;" he returned to the charge
morning, noon, and night.

But look here, don't you know," said heu

what does it signify about being ( engaged '
if she isn't spliced ? Besides, dash it all !
only give a fellow a chance ; I can play a
waiting game, and who knows but I might
carry off the stakes ? Because, look here,
don't you know, a two-year-old ain't the same
form as a filly, and she might take it into her
head to change her mind."

Then he tried another tack. He knew my
mania for the poetic drama, and he suggested
that I should take a theatre ; he would find
the capital and engage Caroline for the
leading parts.

Look here, don't you know I" said he, " I
can manage a theatre cheaper, than any fella
in England."

The deuce you can! " I exclaimed. u How
do you mean to set about it ? "

"Oh! easily. Look here, don't you know?
Last year I made a hole in nearly seventy thousand
quid. At Ascot I dropped thirty thou ;
at Doncaster twenty : cards over ten : and the

yacht stood me in about ten more. Now, I
shall shunt the lot — turf, cards, yacht, and
the whole bag of tricks. Suppose the theatre
costs me fifty thou a year, you see I'm twenty
thou to the good by the transaction. Theatres
are a fine game if you know how to manage
'em. Why Pelter dropped more money at
the Derby last year in five minutes, than in all
the seven years he ran the Elysian, where he
had private boxes and stalls galore for his
pals for nothing. And then Kilgobbin bought
the " Montpelier" and the " Flora," one of
them for twelve thou and the other for
fourteen, and lets 'em for four thou a year
each ! That's good business, isn't it ? Talk
about the ' peoples,' why they ain't in it with
my noble friend ; he knows his way about, I
can tell you. Do, let me take a theatre, old
chap, or dash me if I don't build one, and
make her fortune and yours and my own into
the bargain."

To all his entreaties I turned a deaf ear ;

for I liked the boy, and would not lead him
into a fool's paradise, but accident befriended
him, despite my endeavours, and this was how
it came about.

During Caroline's stay at Morley's, the
suite of rooms immediately adjacent to hers
was occupied by the Princesse Neruda,
popularly known as " La Belle Russe."
This distinguished personage was a lady of
great beauty and accomplishments, banished,
it was alleged by her friends, from Holy
Russia on account of Pugilistic proclivities ;
other people, possibly better informed, though
less good-natured, asserted that she was in
the secret service, and more especially in the
confidence and private pay of Prince
Gortchakow.

Harry Laburnum, Member for Shoo-borough,
and proprietor of the " Crucified,"
asserted, with cold-blooded and characteristic
candour, " that she was better known than
respected in every capital in Europe ; that

she had been banished from St. Petersburg ;
that she had married young and often ; that
her first husband was chief mourner at the
funeral of her third or fourth ; that, besides
half-a-dozen husbands, she had had as many
lovers as the woman in the Arabian Nights :
that she had been mixed up in that little
affair of the Grand Duke's with the diamonds ;
that she was accustomed to dance the Cancan
after her petit soupers in the Champs
Elysees; and that, in consequence of throwing
her shoe on one of these festive occasions at
the head of a certain illustrious personage,
she had been ' invited ' to leave Paris at a
moment's notice."

This, and much more, she read in the
Crucified," and writhed as she read. Then
she resolved to beard the lion in his den ; so
she drove down to Elizabeth's Gate, to have
it out, with the gentle Laburnum. He received
her with his usual cynical urbanity ;
she was furious, and talked of proceedings.

He smiled benignantly, and referred her to
George Lewis ; then offered her a cigarette
of the choicest Latakia, and a cup of Russian
tea with a lemon squeezed in it ; asked her
opinion about his copy of Titian's Venus and
his Messenger ; what she thought of Ture
last book, &c.

She was a sagacious woman, and saw it
was better to accept the inevitable ; so they
passed a very pleasant hour or two together,
(( slating" their friends, and comparing their
experiences, which were varied and peculiar.
They parted mutually impressed. She concluded
not to go to Ely Place ; and Harry,
who was not a bad sort in his way, dropped
her for the future. l< She's only a woman,
after all," he said.

Now, during Caroline's illness, Madame la
Princesse sent her fruit and flowers daily, and
as soon as she was convalescent, did herself
the honour, of waiting upon the interesting

VOL. III. K

invalid. This friendly intimacy was sedulously
cultivated ; and when, a short time
after, " La Belle Russe " took a large mansion,
splendidly furnished, in the Regent's
Park to enable her to carry out her views connected
with the game of baccarat, &c, she
thought La Belle Challoner would be an
agreeable and attractive ornament for the
family circle. Hence, when she inaugurated
the campaign with a house warming, she
invited Caroline and myself, to help her do
the honours.

At that time we were both in ignorance of
the article in the " Crucified," and of the lady's
antecedents, so, in the innocence of our
hearts, we accepted the invitation.

Upon our arrival we were ushered into the
drawing-room, where we found upwards of a
score of well-known men about town — all more
or less distinguished in gaming, sporting,
and other less savoury circles — our hostess,
and two women who lived very much on the

outskirts of Bohemia — women, in fact, about
whom there could be no manner of mistake.

They were all laughing and talking as we
entered, and then an awkward silence occurred.
The men bowed profoundly as the
Princesse advanced, all gush and grimace, to
meet us. But " La Belle Russe " had
reckoned without her guest. At the first
glance Caroline divined the situation. Her
self-possession was admirable. Dexterously
avoiding contact, or even recognition, of
Madame and her lady friends, she included
all the men in the room, in one stately,
sweeping curtsey, as she murmured with
disdainful politeness —

There has evidently been a slight mistake
here. Mr. Penarvon, will you be kind
enough to take me to my carriage ? "

Without a word I led her to the door. On
arriving there, to our horror we found that our
conveyance had gone, and it was raining in
torrents !

At this moment up drove Frogmore's
brougham, and out jumped the Duke, face to
face with Caroline and myself !

There was no help for it now ; we were
stranded in the wilds of Regent's Park in
evening dress — a bitter winter's night, too.
I explained the dilemma in which we were
placed as briefly as I could, and introduced
him to Caroline. He immediately offered his
trap, and we were only too glad to accept it,
to enable us to get home.

When he called upon me next day, to accompany
him to pay his devoirs to Caroline
(for he wasn't the man to let the grass grow
under his feet) he told me that La Belle
Russe had not appeared to enjoy her dinner
particularly ; that she flavoured each succeeding
course with a sauce piquante, compounded
of ornaments from every living
language ; that, after dinner, the coffee, or
something else, did not agree with her ; and
that she had not her usual good fortune at
baccarat.

It is needless to say that after this experience
the ladies of the demi-monde let Caroline
" severely alone."

'Tis an ill wind, however, that blows no
one any good ; " and the Duke was indebted
to La Belle Russe, for an introduction to the
object of his adoration.

Owes War D HO!

To the West — to the West — love with me."

At length the run of " Orpheus " came to an
end, not because its attraction had fallen
off, but because Clerehead, to his great
regret, had made previous arrangements with
some of " those confounded foreigners," as he
called them.

In anticipation of the termination of Caroline's
engagement, he had been " working the
States' and all kinds of proposals came from
America.

He replied, sans ceremonie, " All this sort

of thing looks very well on paper, but it's of
no use without a banker's reference."

At last one day a tall, smart, keen-eyed
American, with a face like a young Greek,
very quick, very quiet, very self-possessed,
and apparently very well-bred, lounged into
Clerehead's den one morning with a cigar in
his mouth.

After a few minutes' talk they strolled
together down to the American Exchange,
then over to Courts' ; and in less than an hour
the American tour was settled on terms which
I hesitate to repeat, lest they may appear
fabulous.

In a month's time Caroline had to sail.

The interval was devoted to preparations.
She went over to Paris, taking with her Mrs.
Elton and Milly to assist her in the choice of
dresses and other feminine frivolities.

On her return she urged me to go with her
to the States.

I couldn't.

What was the use of my body going to
America, while my soul remained in England
?

Then she asked Clerehead to let Milly
accompany her ; Milly added her entreaties
to Caroline's, and so it came to pass that
Clerehead actually suffered himself to be
persuaded — somewhat reluctantly (for he had
a touch of my complaint) to accompany the
girls as their escort to America.

Mrs. Le Blanc told me that when he came
to make his adieux at Florence Villa, he tried
hard to induce Clara to accept an engagement
ring, but in vain, that he left the house in
anger, though she smiled sweetly, and called
after him : " We pray Heaven to have you in
its holy keeping."

At Caroline's request I went down to Liverpool
to see her off.

Clerehead and I sat in our own room at the

Delphi the night before they started (to
perpetrate an Irishism) until two in the morning
over a pipe and a glass of grog.

When we had settled all our business
matters he burst out —

Look here, Bob, every man fights for his
own hand, when there's a woman in the case ;
but, so long as we fight fair, there should be
no ill-feeling between us ; so, suppose we let
that matter slide.

Now, I want to give you a straight tip.

Of course, you'll have to stick to the
shop while I'm away; but a month's soon
gone. When I come back you must cut this
game — it isn't l good enough.' It's sorry
work for you to have nothing better to do
than to drill a pack of duffers into the
principles of the English language. Sink
it, and go into the author line. That
Orpheus ' was smart, and you can do better
things."

il But how am I to do better things ? "

Oh, easy enough — hammer at it — don't
consume the midnight oil though, that's a
grave mistake.

Turn out at eight — tub — don't shave ;
in fact, I wouldn't shave at all, if I were you ;
let your beard grow, it looks distinguished,
especially when a fellow can cultivate a
blacking-brush like yours, under his nose.
Have a cup of strong coffee and a rusk.
Don't breakfast until after work. Skim
the papers while you swallow your coffee,
so as to nail the latest sensation. Then
follow Tony Trollope's advice, get an ounce
of cobbler's wax, stick it on a stool, stick
yourself a-top of it, take a double-barrelled
pen (one of Gillott's), best ink and paper you
can get, and plenty of it ; fire away at nine,
and stick to it till one — that's four hours.

Lytton did all his wonderful work in three
hours a day. He told me so himself. Fact !

When you've spun your reel, dress, and
be off to the Club — dejeuner a la fourchette

then you're a gentleman for the rest of the
day.

(( Don't hide your light under a bushel —
show yourself here, there, and everywhere —
especially outside a horse. Never miss a big
libel case — a first night — a private view of
the pictures, or anything of that sort. Be
always en evidence ; make yourself 
with the press-gang. Some
of them are decent fellows when you come
to know 'em. Don't be knocked over by a
failure or two — they are nothing when you're
used to them. The most successful authors
have had the greatest number of failures ;
hence, they have had the greatest chances
of success. Get inside ' the ring,' and you
can do pretty well what you like.

"Just look round at the shining lights.
There's Bragg, and Bolster, and Bunkum.
Bragg was an office boy in the Royal Raffles
Loan Office (Limited), capital about thirty
quid, borrowed for the occasion — a post-dated

cheque, and a bill stamp. Sixty percent.
Bill of Sale caper; you know all
about it.

Bolster was a kind of Howell and James'
young man, who was one of my actors, and
wasn't up to much ; and Bunkum was a
barrister, who never held a brief. All decent
chaps in their way ; but, dash it all, old
fellow, you've forgotten more than they ever
learnt. So go ahead, dear boy. Only mind !
no blank verse, no tights (except for the
women). I prefer bags myself; but, anyhow,
draw the line at breeches ! Stick to the
nineteenth century, ( the wondrous mother
age.' If you go back to your classic twaddle
you'll come a cropper.

Here you are, here are a dozen dramas
ready-made to your hand in the " D. T. " of
to-day. Imprimis, an absconding clerk, who
robs his employer, a barrister, who got him
off when he robbed his first master.

A woman, whose sister takes her ' davy

she has been drownded ' in the Thames, and
actually recognizes the corpse ; only, unfortunately,
the woman turns up alive, and
swears she isn't dead.

A druidical doctor, who creates his kid
a-top of a Welsh mountain by moonlight.

A long firm swindle, an abduction, a
murder, a fire, a railway collision, a shipwreck,
a bigamous, trigamous, omnivorous beast of a
parson, who marries half-a-dozen wives, licks
and swindles the lot, seduces his stepdaughter,
forges a certificate of his child's
death, and hands over his progeny to a baby-farmer
! Shakespere isn't in it with this lot.
Shake 'em up in a bag, dear boy, mix 'em
together, and they'll lick your precious
Pericles into fits.

Now observe, young man, if any of these
wonderful dramas ( strike ile,' I shall expect
a commission.

By Jingo ! " looking at his watch, " I
see you won't commence your career as a

dramatist tomorrow, at any rate. Goodnight;
think of what I've said, old man."

Next morning I went aboard with them,
and stayed till the last moment. A few
minutes before the steamer weighed anchor,
a telegram came to Caroline from the P — ,
to this effect —

The P — ss and I wish you great good-fortune
in America."

The last bell rang ; I bade Clerehead and
Milly good-bye.

Then Caroline said, " Write me as soon as
you can. If you hear anything, cable, and
I'll come at a day's notice. Wish me good-speed.
Good-bye ; now kiss me, my brother."

With the dove's guilelessness shining
through her clear, frank eyes, she lifted her
innocent lips to mine ; and, midst a mist of
tears, we parted.

When I got ashore, I waited to take a last
look, when who should I see stroll up the

gangway of the hurricane deck but Frederick
Augustus, Duke of Frogmore !

Decidedly that young man is not such a
fool as he looks !

They wave their hats and handkerchiefs tome,
the great ship moves off amidst the roar
of the multitude ; and while they are steaming
down the Mersey, I am on my way back
to my lonely lodgings in Thanet Place.

I find awaiting my arrival this telegram
from —

Fred Bronson, Railway Hotel, Carlisle.
I have found Jack here. Come at once."

An hour afterwards I am in the Flying
Scotchman, en route to the North.

THE PARSON'S ADVENTURE AT CARLISLE.

This is I, Hamlet the Dane ! "

I HAVE already said that our friend Bronson
was addicted to field sports. He was going
to Ecclefechan (shade of Carlyle !) to run a
couple of harriers for a coursing match, and
he had invited a friend to accompany him,
who had never seen this humane amusement.
They broke their journey at Carlisle, and
put up at the Station Hotel. After dinner,
of course, Fred enquired of the waiter if
there was such a thing as a theatre in the
place.

Dunno about a theater, sir, but there's
the Match Box on the sands."

"What do you mean by the 'Match
Box'"

Why, it's a great big wooden place made
of packing cases ; so we call it the Match
Box."

Tom," said the parson to his friend,

Eureka ! there's a play-house ! Slip on

your coat, old man, and let's have a look.

Perhaps we may see some embryo Kean, or

Jordan — who knows ?

' There's many a flower that's doomed to blush unseen,
And waste its sweetness on the desert air ! '

And you, my man," to the waiter, " show us

the way."

All right, sir ; we can get there in ten

minutes."

Passing through the main street, they
reached the outskirts of the city ; and thereon
a dreary sandy flat, stood the " Match
Box."

VOL. III. L

What are the prices ? " enquired the
parson.

(( Threepence, sixpence, and a shilling; or
if you would like a private box, sir, you can
have one for five bob."

The parson elected to have a private box.

The " Match Box " was crowded with the

proletariat of the city— simple, honest people,

who listened to the actors perhaps with more

interest and sympathy than more fashionable

folk. The play itself was the everlasting

Hamlet." The fourth act was going on ;

Ophelia was singing —

How should I your true love know from such another
one ? "

The poor girl sang and acted very fairly —
in fact, the whole performance was of a very
respectable character. The dresses, too, were
not inappropriate — the scenery clean, but
rather florid. No neutral tints here — honest red,
and green, and white, laid on with a trowel.

During the performance perfect silence

prevailed, but when the act-drop descended,
flash, puff, crack, lucifers flashing, pipes
smoking, nuts cracking, a thousand jaws
going. These occupations seemed to afford
these worthy people a kind of safety-valve, to
emit the animal spirits kept under control,
while the actors were on the stage.

Hush ! the curtain is going up. Out with
pipes, stow the nut-cracking, silence ! The
last act of the play is about to commence.

The grave-diggers enter, the principal
clown is evidently a favourite, for every
sentence elicits a roar. When his fooling is
done (and excellent fooling it is), he despatches
his colleague " to Vaughan for a stoup of
liquor; " then crooning out a fragment of an
old song, he bestows himself to the completion
of Ophelia's grave.

While he is thus engaged, Hamlet and
Horatio enter from the back, then, a general
hush falls on the audience, as the Prince
is heard to enquire —

11 Has this fellow no feeling of his business
that he sings at grave-making ? "

That voice ! " says Bronson, " Tom !
Tom ! Look, look ! Wake up ! " for his
friend had fallen asleep. " That's Herbert's
voice, if ever I heard it in my life. And, by
Jove, it is he himself ! "

Looking at the play-bill, Fred found Hamlet
was by Mr. Bellamy.

Now Bronson knew all about Jack's disappearance,
the advertisement in the "Times,"
&c, so keeping well out of sight of the stage,
he wrote a telegram with his pencil on the
back of the playbill, stating that Herbert was
found ; he then dispatched his friend to the
station to forward the message to me, while
he mounted guard over the truant.

It will be remembered that Hamlet is never
off the stage in the last act, from the time he
comes on, until the end of the tragedy —
obviously, there was no opportunity for speaking
to him until after the curtain fell.

During the performance Bronson kept out
of sight, as he had done on a former memorable
occasion at Rosemount.

When the play was over he rose. At this
moment Hamlet appeared before the curtain
to acknowledge the plaudits of the audience.
The unusual apparition of the stalwart parson
in the private box, in his clerical garb, attracted
the attention of the melancholy Dane,
and Herbert (for it was he) saw that he was
recognized, and strode rapidly off the stage.
Bronson left the theatre as quickly as he
could, but was obstructed by the people
streaming out, for there was no farce, and the
performance was over.

When he got to the back of the building,
he found himself on the opposite side to the
stage entrance ; he tried back, and at length
reached the stage door, and bolted in without
ceremony.

The lights were down, a man and a lad
were taking up the green baize.

11 Mr. Bellamy ! Where is Mr. Bellamy ? "
enquired Fred.

There, sir — that's his dressing-room!"
replied the man, pointing to the opposite-side
of the stage.

The parson rushed over, calling out —

Herbert ! Herbert ! It is I— Bronson ! "'
and, dashing open the first door he came to,
he bounced into the ladies' dressing-room !

Imagine the poor parson's consternation
when he found himself face to face with the
beauteous majesty of Denmark" — the fair
Ophelia — young Osric, and another lady,
more or less dressing, or undressed !

The ladies evidently thought some maniac
had burst in among them, and they roused
the theatre with their screams !

Bronson jumped out of the room even
more quickly than he entered it, uttering a
thousand apologies.

By this time, the actors, half dressed,
emerged from the opposite side, and amongst

them the manager, who had acted the King.
He was a formidable-looking fellow, six feet
high, and it was evident he had a temper of
his own, for he let out at Bronson without
waiting for the ceremony of an introduction.

Confound you, sir ! What do you want in
my wife's dressing-room ? For two pins I'd
break every bone in your skin."

Very sorry, I'm sure — quite a mistake."

'mistake, be blanked! Every civilized
being knows that strangers are not admitted
behind the scenes of any theatre, however
humble. Because our misfortunes have driven
us to take shelter in this pigsty, I suppose
you think you may insult us with impunity ! "

I assure you," exclaimed Bronson, " I
meant no insult. I am a clergyman. The
gentleman who played Hamlet is an old friend
of mine, and I was anxious to see him — hence
this intrusion. I hope, sir, you will accept
my apologies, and explain to the ladies how
concerned I am at having alarmed them."

Say no more, sir. Say no more. An
affront handsomely acknowledged becomes
an obligation.' I'll take you to Mr. Bellamy
myself." So saying, the manager led the
parson to a small temporary dressing-room
in the opposite corner. Approaching the
door he knocked gently. No reply. He
waited a moment, and then knocked again.

Mr. Bellamy," he said, " a gentleman, a
friend of yours, wishes to see you."

Still no reply.

11 Strange," said the manager, and he
knocked again, loudly this time. Receiving
no answer, he threw open the door. The
room was empty, the bird had flown. There
lay Hamlet's street clothes, but there was no
Hamlet !

11 Good heavens ! " exclaimed the manager,
"why, he must have gone home in his stage
dress ! I never knew him do that before ;
he's a perfect gentleman, but very eccentric,
and we're obliged to humour him a little. If

you'll wait a moment till I've slipped my traps
on, I'll go down with you to his lodgings."

In a few minutes he returned fully equipped.

One moment," he said ; then, going over
to the ladies' dressing-room, he tapped at the
door.

Arabella, my love, Styles shall see you
home. Bellamy is in one of his tantrums,
and I must look him up. I may be an hour
or more, so don't sit up. Ta-ta, darling !
This way, sir."

Off they went, right through the city, till
they reached the outskirts, in the direction
exactly opposite the theatre. Presently they
came to a row of cottage houses. They were
all so quiet and peaceful, that it seemed as if
everybody must have gone to bed long ago.
At the very top house of the row, however,
there was a light in the window.

Here we are, and evidently he's up yet."
With that, the manager knocked at the door.

It was opened instantly by a little elderly
lady, with white hair and a widow's cap.

Has Mr. Bellamy gone to bed, ma'am? "

No, Mr. Eccleston, he's not come home
yet," said the widow, " but I expect him
every minute. Will you step in and wait till
he comes ? "

11 Thank you, i'm ; you are very kind,
if you won't object to my pipe. Sorry I
can't offer you a cigar, sir."

Bronson produced his well-seasoned briar-root,
and smiled benignantly as he replied —

This is worth more to me than all the
cigars imported from Savannah. It has been
my soother, companion, friend, for I don't know
how long."

The parson and the player purled away at
their pipes, and at first the time passed
pleasantly enough.

When Eccleston thawed, Bronson found
him " another good man gone wrong." He
had been u plucked" at Oxford, got stage-struck,

took a London theatre, acted Romeo,
lost three or four thousand pounds in a
month, fell in love with Juliet, and married
her. Banished by his family, and disinherited
by his father, he went into the country to act ;
failed miserably, lost an only child, took to
drink, got from bad to worse, was driven out
of the respectable theatres. Then he resolved
to " put in the peg;" became a total abstainer,
and now was in a fair way to retrieve the
past.

The misfortune is," he said, " I've discovered
that I'm a cruel, bad actor. I shall
never do much that way — but I flatter myself
I know something about stage-management ;
and Arabella, my wife (the lady who played
Ophelia) — ah ! she'll ( strike ile,' depend upon
it, one of these fine days"*

Time passed ; the poor little widow got

Arabella has " struck ile." She made a wonderful
hit at the Great International the other day, and Eccleston
is stage-manager at the Megatherium, at a very handsome
salary.

tired, and the men became impatient. Twelve
o'clock, one, two, yet no sign of Herbert.

At length the parson enquired —

Has he ever been out so late as this
before, ma'am ? "

Never, sir."

l( I really don't think we ought to trespass
on this lady any longer, Mr. Eccleston," said
Bronson.

11 Nor I either," the manager replied. " I'm
very sorry, Mrs. Wilton, that we've kept you
up so late."

Don't mention it, gentlemen," said the
little woman ; " but should any harm come to
the poor gentleman — oh ! dear, oh ! deary
me. I can't bear to think of it."

Let us hope for the best," quoth the
parson, leaving his card and half-a-sovereign.
You'll let me know the moment he comes
back, won't you ? "

Oh ! yes. You may be sure of that,"
replied the widow.

And so they bade her good-night, or rather,
good-morning, and made the best of their
way to the hotel, where they found Fred's
friend in a terrible state of anxiety. He was
not too anxious, however, to do ample justice
to the substantial supper which awaited them.

They kept it up so late, that Bronson was
fast asleep when I routed him out at about
ten o'clock the next morning. As soon as he
realized where he was, Fred told me the story
I have here endeavoured to relate.

After breakfast we strolled down to the
Match Box." The players were rehearsing
the music of Macbeth (and very well they
did it, too).

After the experience of the preceding night,
the parson was very punctilious in sending in
his card, and I, of course, sent mine. Ech
came out, and we were ceremoniously
introduced. He was really a fine distinguished-looking
fellow. Apparently very much depressed,
he said to Bronson —

11 I was coming to see you, sir. I got this
note five minutes ago by the second postal
delivery. It is endorsed outside —

' Immediate and important. Too late to
obtain a stamp.' "

There was no mistake about the hand.

The letter was to this effect —

My Dear Mr. Eccleston,

I am compelled to terminate my
engagement at a moment's notice. My
absence will, I am afraid, inconvenience you ;
but there is no help for it. Like poor Lear —

1 To deal plainly,
I fear I am not in my perfect mind.'

Forgive and forget me as soon as
possible. Make my respectful adieux to
Mrs. Eccleston, and believe that your kindness
and consideration, will never be forgotten
by the unfortunate

Bellamy."

Baffled again !

Inviting the manager to accompany us, we
went first to Herbert's lodgings.

On our way thither Eccleston informed us
that " Mr. Bellamy" had joined the company
a short time previous at Dumfries — that he
was very quiet and reserved, but somewhat
strange in his manner — rarely or ever speaking
to anyone out of the business of the
theatre, and, in point of fact, this was all the
information I could obtain.

Upon arriving at the lodgings, we found
Herbert had not returned, nor had he sent
any message. Thence we went to the Police
Office, where we could obtain no clue whatever
to his mysterious disappearance. It
was only too evident that he had left the
city.

Of course it was useless to further prolong
my stay ; so thanking Bronson for his trouble,
and desiring Eccleston to write if any news
transpired — cruelly disappointed and utterly
disheartened, I again returned to town.

SUNDERED.

Not to be with you, not to see your face,
Alas ! for me, then, my good days are done !

The gulf continues to widen imperceptibly
between Clara and me.

She is always preoccupied, and I am
always embarrassed and distant.

I have occasional evidence that, though
Clerehead is on the other side of the " ditch,"
he contrives to keep his memory green in
Regent's Park.

I am bidden to dinner the third Sunday
after his departure, to partake of some canvas-back

ducks and other transatlantic delicacies,
which he has sent from Staten Island. I
know I am an ass, but those canvas-back
ducks stick in my gizzard, or, rather, would
have done so, had I tried to swallow them, so
I send Cassidy on Sunday morning with a
note to Mrs. Le Blanc, pleading a severe
headache, and saying that the doctor has
prescribed a pull on the river.

I go and I row, and am about as lively as
Charon taking toll on the Styx.

When night falls, I am watching her
chamber as usual — always watching.

I am not invited the following Sunday. Of
course not, for Clerehead has returned, and the
fatted calf is to be killed in honour of his
arrival. I wait, and watch. Am I a man ora
beast that I do these things ? Alas ! I
love her — I love her — that is all !

He comes to dinner, elate and confident ;
but, thank goodness, he goes away early,

VOL. ill. M

and depressed — there is some comfort in
that!

It is summer now. The window is open.
Hark ! she is singing the beautiful Duchess
of Devonshire's old song from " The
Stranger."

I have a silent sorrow here,
A grief I'll ne'er impart ;
It breathes no sigh, it sheds no tear,
But it consumes my heart."

Then she breaks down and weeps — and I
cannot be there to soothe, to console her !
If I only dared — if I — but she rises, puts out
the light, retires, and " leaves the world to
darkness and to me."

My visits become rarer, and rarer still.

Sometimes I call on Mrs. Le Blanc about
some trifling literary matters, in which we are
jointly interested, especially an adaptation
of an unacted play of Shakespere, which
(despite Clerehead's dictum), I think, will,
nay, shall, set the Thames on fire some day,

or night. There is a big dual part for Clara,
and she knows it, yet, though she listens and
listens, with her great beautiful eyes dilating,
her bosom palpitating, she doesn't condescend
to utter one word. I put it to any
reasonable man, especially to any author, if
this is not hard to bear?

Mrs. Le Blanc says all sorts of kind things,
but she remains silent. I am silent too, and
then I suddenly remember I have an appointment,
and take my leave abruptly.

I have not only ceased to dine at Florence
Villa on Sunday, but I have also ceased to
escort Clara to church.

Clerehead takes her two Sundays running,
but his piety and his patience are both exhausted
by the effort. Even for her sake, he
can't stand Father P — 's sermons (and I
don't wonder at it ; I can't stand 'em myself !)
so she goes alone, for the future.

She is a devout Catholic, and attends

regularly to her devotions. I am not a
Catholic, and I am not devout, still, I find
myself at her church regularly every Sunday,
that is, at Vesper time (for Father P —
doesn't preach then !) Each Sunday I resolve
that I will go no more, and then I end
by saying, " I will go to-night ; 'tis the last
time." And so it is — till the next time
comes !

She sits aloft with the choir, and sings ; I
sit below, and listen. When she leaves the
church, I dog her footsteps home, and wait
and watch as usual, and then return to my
solitary chambers and dream myself to sleep.
The days pass into weeks, the weeks into
months, until at length a year, a whole
weary year, has passed away.

"Thus, while the past is surely gone,
The gloomy future still unseen,
I think of what I might have won,
And fancy things that should have been."

CHAPTER I.

I AM A SUCCESSFUL DRAMATIST.

Seest thou not what a deformed thief this fashion is ? "

AMERICA is the paradise for fair women, and
during the past twelve months, Caroline has
set the States on fire — from New York to
the City with the Golden gates — with the
light of her genius, and the radiance of her
beauty.

I seek not to depreciate her rare gifts,
though I could wish they had better scope

than in my miserable " Orpheus." It does
seem hard, though ; here is my poor darling
eating her heart out with disappointed
ambition.

Clever as he is, what an ass Clerehead
must be ! With his opportunities for pulling
the strings, and manipulating public opinion,
he might have made her the greatest creature
of the age ; then, her vanity flattered, her
ambition gratified, her heart might be touched.
And then, alas ! what would become of me ?
Am I selfish that I thank God he hasn't the
brains to think of this ? Perhaps !

To return to Caroline ; in this incredibly
short period she has (so Clerehead tells me)
made a large fortune ; and he is going over
the ditch," to advise her how to invest it
in mortgages, in mines, in landed estate, in
petroleum springs, and Heaven knows what
besides ! And then he is to bring her and
Milly home.

All this in twelve short months !

Only think! Great Fanny Kemble, Glorious
Helen Faucit ; Goddesses ! Pallas, Here,
Aphrodite, Thalia, Melpomene — All the
Muses incarnate in flesh and blood ! Macready,
greatest tragedian in the universe ;
Admirable, accomplished, and gentlemanly
Charles Kean ; Rugged Sam Phelps, one of
our best tragedians, and certainly the greatest
comedian in the world ; Genial Charles
Mathews, Jovial Bucky, Rare old Ben : all
these choice and master spirits, toiled and
struggled from youth to age, and esteemed
themselves lucky to be enabled to retire upon
a miserable pittance of a few thousand
pounds j while this girl of five-and-twenty,
and others, with not a scintillation of her
ability, leap at one bound to fame and
fortune !

A mad world, my masters " — a world
where the best showman is the best actor,
and the greatest author !

But what am I to sneer at my brother

charlatans — I, who have turned showman
myself ?

Yes ! I have taken Clerehead's advice, and
find it much pleasant, and far more profitable,
to write plays than to act them ; and,
strange to say, the British public, who
wouldn't stand my play-acting, will stand
my plays ! Poor, stupid B. P. !

Then, I've dropped my lines in pleasant
places. I've encountered a man of genius,
in the shape of a manager. A man did I
say ? I don't do him justice. He is
three single gentlemen rolled into one" — ■
actor, author, and manager combined ;
Garrick, Rich, and Sheridan in one and the
same person, with a dash of E. T. Smith and
Phineas T. Barnum into the bargain !

My manager's modesty is even greater
than his skill. He blandly tells the public
that he is the greatest author, actor, and
manager in the world ; and if he tells them
so long enough, I shouldn't be surprised if

they begin to believe him, by-and-bye — in
fact, I'm not sure but some people begin to
believe him already !

We elaborate, that is to say, I suggest a
subject, he suggests a distinction without a
difference ; I invent a plot, he suggests an
alteration ; I suggest a hansom cab, and a
live horse, a steam engine, a railway train,
and a fishing smack, then he caps me with
a coach and four horses (alive), two steam
engines, two trains, and a collision (real, of
course), and a schooner, full rigged and in
full sail, that works round, sending her bowsprit
on a voyage of discovery into the dress
circle !

My collaborator has got his head screwed
on rightly. He is wise in his generation, and,
having accurately gauged the intelligence of
his public, he gives it exactly what it wants.
Apart from this, he is a generous, large-hearted
fellow, and we understand each other
perfectly. He gets all our wonderful " properties"

made cheaply, and sells them, when
we've done with them, at prime cost. Between
us, we've abolished those nuisances
front scenes."

As for the dialogue, that's quite a secondary
consideration. I spin it off by the yard, as
the spider spins her web, and he cuts it, and
spoils it occasionally (at least, so I think) ;
but he says that's mere prejudice on my part.
Anyhow, I don't complain, it " pleases him
and doesn't hurt me; " and if the dear, intelligent
British public, is satisfied with the
article we manufacture, what does it matter ?

While I play on the organ, my friend blows
the bellows, and advertises our joint productions
splendidly. Then we dispose of the
provincial and American rights for fabulous
sums, and divide the plunder between us.

We have already arranged for our next
production, " My Wife's Sister's Husband,"
to be translated into every European tongue ;
indeed, I should not be surprised if it were

done in Hindostan, Chinese, and Japanese,
Sanscrit, Choking, and Cherokee. It is
nearly long enough, if not quite (seven acts
and fifteen tableaux). If our great sensation,
" The Battle of the Balloons," with
the nations' airy navies grappling in the
central blue," doesn't " knock 'em," why the
sacking of the House of Lords, and the
cremation of the Bench of Bishops, by the
Amazonian army of wives' sisters, is bound
to " fetch 'em."

This will be the most realistic scene the
stage has ever witnessed. No wretched
supers, but ladies, live ladies, all real wives'
sisters, " condemned to pine and wither on
the virgin thorn " through the barbarity of
the Hereditary Legislature. Then the peers
of the minority, real, live peers (in real peers'
robes, none of your Iolanthe trumperies),
have kindly promised their valuable services
for the occasion, in consideration of my friend
providing their sons and daughters with

suitable openings in his next pantomime, at
the customary guinea a week for beginners.

Thus, by following Clerehead's advice, at
a bound I have leaped into the foremost
rank of living dramatists !

Evil communications corrupt good manners."
Naturally I find it my game to join
in the chorus of depreciation of Shakespere,
Lytton, Sheridan Knowles, and other old-fashioned
fogies.

Shakespere never wrote " My Wife's
Sister's Husband." He couldn't do it.
Psha ! Away with the cap and bells !

If, instead of being a conductor of sordid
melodrama, I could soar to Olympian heights
which would qualify me to touch the hem of
the master's" singing robes, even that
crowning glory of my life, would be but " as
sounding brass, and tinkling cymbals," unless
she were by my side to share it with me.

But she ! — alas !

THE STROLLERS.

He entrenched himself in his cruel pride,
Nor deigned he a single word to speak,
Nor dreamt he once of her bitter tears,

Or the stricken heart that was nigh to break."

I AM making my fortune in London by my
publishing plays — Caroline has already made
hers in America. Clara has entirely recovered
her health ; but where is he — our old, our only
friend — where is Herbert ?

It will be remembered that the last time he
ever saw Caroline was at the moment when
he rescued her from the fire.

During his delirium he was, of course, unconscious

of the agonies of her parting, of
the bitter check to her pure and proud
ambition, in being compelled to prostitute
her great genius to the lowest form of art,
solely in order to rescue him from his difficulties
; nay, to actually provide him with
the means of subsistence, during his illness.

He dreamt not of the anguish of the
faithful heart whose whole life was one
lament for her lost love. He only knew
that since the time he had imperilled his life
to save hers, he had never once seen her —
never once heard from her.

Alas ! how should he know that she had
written repeatedly, that her letters had arrived
during the period of his unconsciousness, and
that, by some fatality, they had miscarried,
and were lost ?

As for Clara, I solemnly believe — believe ?
I know, that if, during that unfortunate interview
at Harrogate, he had given her the
slightest chance, she would have told him of

the arrival, and subsequent miscarriage of
those fateful letters !

After this, she awaited their coming from
day to day with impatience and anxiety,
resolved to deliver them to him the moment
they arrived.

While she watched and waited, came the
arrest at Claremount, with its subsequent
train of horrors ; and so the opportunity
passed, never to return.

On the face of her continued silence, it
seemed to Herbert's distempered mind, that
Caroline had deserted him. Besides this, he
considered she had degraded herself and him
by appearing in a class of entertainment
which she knew he loathed. I, too, had
been particeps criminis to the transaction,
inasmuch as I had written the hateful piece,
and doubtless, he thought, negotiated the
engagement.

He saw, too (for the unhappy man devoured

every line that was written about her),
her name continually and intimately associated,
in certain scandalous society papers,
with that of Frogmore. To-day, it was announced
they were engaged ; tomorrow, it
was delicately insinuated they were married,
or, if not, that they ought to be !

Then the agonies of grief, rage, jealousy,
and despair tortured his proud heart, and
preyed upon his very vitals. In one little
hour, he might have ascertained the utter
falsity of these infamous cards ; but his
cruel pride always intervened. In prosperity,
it had been his besetting sin ; in adversity, it
had become something far worse.

At length came my advertisement. That
very day he also saw the announcement of
her marriage with Frogmore, which filled the
cup of his anger to overflowing.

So they would pension me, I suppose ! "
he exclaimed.

Then he wrapped himself up more closely

than ever in the bitterness of his delusive
disdain.

O'Brien had said, but too truly, that poor
Jack had a " kink " in his brain, occasioned
doubtless, by the ruffianly outrage at Boling-broke
; and this, combined with his now
dangerous delusion on the subject of Caroline's
supposed perfidy, fairly upset his
reason !

He was at the zenith of his powers ; he had
only to hold his finger up, and he might have
been engaged at any theatre in the kingdom ;
instead of which he shunned sympathy,
nursed his despair, and, like the Spartan boy
of old, suffered it to devour his heart in
silence.

At last he saw in the newspapers that
she and the Duke had gone to America
together !

From that moment, though quite self-contained
and reasonable upon all other
topics, upon that particular subject he became

VOL. III. N

a confirmed monomaniac. Of course, the
poor fellow's mania was the more strongly
developed, because it was confined to his own
bosom. His lips were sealed. Believing himself
abandoned by me, he had no friend to
whom he could unburden his sorrow. He
was alone — evermore alone !

Even now, it appears to me incredible, that
he did not realize that so long as I, his old
comrade, had a home, or a shilling, he should
never want for either. Howsoever that might
be, he still held aloof ; and, despite our repeated
advertisements, and continual enquiries,
we could obtain no information
regarding him.

What became of him during this long: and
dreary interregnum, I do not know, even to
this day.

Long after, however, certain memoranda
which fell into my hands, afforded me some
clue to, at least, one of his many bitter experiences.


In a previous portion of this narrative, I
have stated, that he did some little kindness
to a company of itinerant players, who were
in trouble through their primitive theatre
being blown down upon a certain memorable
Christmas.

About a month after his mysterious disappearance
from Carlisle, these poor people
were located at a small town amidst the
mountains of Yorkshire.

It was the very place where, some few
years before, the Vicar's daughters, their
shawls thrown over their heads, after the
homely fashion of the district, were wont to
come nightly to see the play.

I have often wondered whether Charlotte,
when she saw Rachel in the Theatre de
la Monnaie, on the memorable occasion
described so vividly in " Villette," recalled
the poor rural players in their canvas-topped
shed in her native village.

Night was falling, and the snow lay heavy
and deep upon the ground for miles and
miles around, when a tall, gaunt man strode
wearily along till he came to anchor in front
of Wylder's " Thespian Temple " at Haworth.
He was clad in a great loose military-looking
overcoat, the collar of which stood up to his
ears. Round his neck was a white woollen
muffler, and a soft, dark, clerical felt hat was
pulled down over his brows, so that, between
the muffler and the hat, his face was completely
concealed.

Immediately adjacent was the van in which
the manager's family lived and travelled from
place to place. The smoke curled briskly
out of the small-spouted iron chimney ; the
white curtains looked clean, and bright, and
tidy ; and the fire, from within, reflected a
ruddy glow through the windows.

After a moment's pause, the stranger
approached the door, knocked, and enquired
for the manager.

<l Come in ! " exclaimed a cheery voice.
It's a gay night, for sure, to be standing out
in the snow. Come in, lad, and tak' a smell
o't fire, and let's see what I can do for
you."

The man stepped into the van, and threw
off his coat and hat.

The moment the manager caught sight of
his face, he exclaimed —

Gracious God! why, Mary, wench, it's
Maister Herbert ! "

And so it was.

Many and many a weary mile had he
tramped through the snow, before he reached
this harbour of refuge.

Without circumlocution, he stated that he
was seeking an engagement. As it was
essential to preserve his incognito, for fear of
arrest, he couldn't act in his own old towns,
nor under his own name. He said also, that
he had neither properties nor dresses, and that
he couldn't study a single line, but, in all his

old parts, he was still available. Then he
broke down, and said he wanted bread !

Poor Jack ! what he must have suffered to
come to that ! I don't mean to want bread,
but to avow that he wanted it !

The manager roared out —

Here, I say, missus, whiskey and hot
watcher, ham and eggs ! Their, their, sit
down. Lord love your dear heart ; sit down,
Captain, mak' course at home. Off with
them wet boots. Here, Mary, luv, handover
them stockings. Their you are, sir!"
and he took Herbert in his great strong arms
as if he were a baby, put him into the chair
before the fire, pulled off his damp boots and
stockings, chafed his poor frozen feet into
life, clapped on them a pair of warm Shetland
hose, and his own slippers, and forced a
stiff tumbler of boiling whiskey and water
down his throat, " just to restore the circulation,"
as he said, " while the missus was a
getting' the tay ready."

This genial welcome knocked Herbert
over altogether ; for, despite his infernal
pride, when touched in the right place, he
was as gentle as a woman. Presently, however,
he recovered, and it must be confessed
did ample justice to Mrs. Wylder's humble
but substantial repast.

Then Tom YVylder, a fine, big, burly York-sherman
(he was manager and principal
tragedian and comedian to boot !) said —

Now, look here, Maister John, it isn't for a
grand gentleman like you to pal with the
likes of us ; but if you'll cum' and tak' the
best we can give — may God do so much tome
and more — if you shan't be to me as my
father was that's dead, or the little brother
that's in heaven !

11 Look here, sythee. I've gotten two
hundred golden suv'rins in t' lucky bag.
Turn 'em out, missus, and I'll send to Sam
May's for t' props, this blessed mint. You
shall act when you like, and what you like ;

I'll tog you up like a prince, and you shall be
boss o' t' show. Their, help me God ! "

I've suffered honest Tom's adjuration to
remain exactly as he uttered it, in the hope
that if the recording angel happened to be in
the neighbourhood he will not remember it, to
the poor stroller's disadvantage, at the day
of reckoning.

For twelve months and more — " the world
forgetting, and by the world forgot " — Herbert
acted all his old famous parts in small
towns and villages, under the unpretentious
pseudonym of Mr. Barton.

Amongst these humble, but faithful, friends,
his slightest wish was anticipated, and his
will was law ; everybody loved him, but the
women and children adored him.

His health was partially restored ; more
important still, his mind was gradually recovering
its balance, when, alas ! his honest
friend Tom was struck down with typhoid

fever, and died after a few days of excruciating
suffering.

The troupe was disbanded, and poor Jack
w r as once more cast on the world ; yet still he
made no sign !

Two months or more passed without his
earning a shilling. When he had got to his
last sovereign he started forth upon an aimless
journey.

That very day — that very hour — Caroline
left New York, accompanied by almost royal
honours, valedictory addresses, bands of
music, and other Barnum and Bunkum demonstrations,
thinking all the while only of
the man who, weary and footsore, frozen with
cold, and famished with hunger, was again
tramping through the cruel winter's snow, over
the dreary wolds of Yorkshire.

CLEREHEAD GETS HIS Cange.

11 Then learned I, from the sudden start
Of jealous pain,
That I had found within my heart,
My youth again ! "

I MET Caroline at Liverpool, on her return
from America, with Clerehead. Of course
she was attended by Milly and Frogmore.
They all appeared to have benefited by their
travels.

Her first words to me were of Herbert. I
could not find it in my heart to tell her of
Bronson's adventure at Carlisle, and as yet I

knew nothing myself, of the episode, related in
the last chapter.

I really thought poor Jack was dead ; in
fact, I was convinced he was, feeling assured
that if alive, he must have seen the advertisements,
and that he would not remain obdurate
to the continued appeals of his old friend.
She, however, would not entertain the idea of
his death for a moment.

If he were dead," said she, quietly, but
apparently with profound belief, " I should
know it, because I should have seen him."

Of course, after this, there was no more to
be said.

After a few weeks' rest, she prepared for
her forthcoming engagement at the Frivolity,
and I was hard at work upon my new idyll,
The Judgment of Paris," in which she had
selected Aphrodite, for her reappearance.

Frogmore continued her devoted friend and
servant ; he had had many temptations among

the fair Americans; " there's such divinity
doth hedge" a duke that half the bright eyes
in the States tried to lure him from his allegiance,
but in vain.

Poor lad ! I knew (for I heard from her
every week, as she heard from me) that his,
like mine, was a hopeless passion ; but I suppose
he felt, like myself, and " the other

ones

better to have loved and lost,
Than never to have loved at all 1 "

Howsoever that might be, he continued
indefatigable in his attentions.

As for Caroline, she never went out without
Milly, nor Milly without her, and neither
of them stirred abroad without Frogmore.

The world allotted them both to him with
impartial alternation. To-day he was engaged
to Caroline — tomorrow to Milly. It was hard
to say which of the two, was the more detested
by Belgravian mothers, who had marked him
for their own proper prey, and who gnashed

their teeth (if they had any !) when they beheld
these girls at all first nights, concerts, exhibitions,
and the like, attended by their devoted
cavalier.

During the past twelve months Milly had
ripened into a beautiful young woman, and
her fair fresh loveliness, contrasted admirably
with Caroline's superb, pale majesty.

It was one of the sights of the season to
see them in the Row, for their habits became
them to perfection, and they were both admirable
horsewomen.

Clerehead and Clara, too, rode together in
the Park frequently. He had improved a
little in his equitation, while, as for her, I
think she could have lived on horseback.
Her personally was so striking and distinguished
that no one could look on any other
woman while she was present. Hence I really
think that, apart from his increasing regard,
his vanity was flattered by the general and
involuntary homage paid to her beauty.

Our friend the " Gipsey " was in town, and
very often gave me a mount, so that I was
not altogether left in the cold.

One lovely afternoon we were trying to get
through the crowd at " The Corner," when
a certain illustrious personage came and
declared on " to my friend. Of course, I
dropped into the rear. Presently who should
we encounter but Caroline, Milly, and the
Duke ?

The distinguished personage I have mentioned,
immediately left us, and went to pay
his devoirs to Caroline, and to make enquiries
about the American trip, &c.

Just at this moment who should emerge
from the throng in the opposite direction but
Clerehead and Clara ?

The two women had never met since the
night of " The Rival Queens," and I trembled
with anxiety, for I really knew not what might
happen. Fortunately the crowd was so great
that they passed without recognizing each

other, whereupon I breathed freely and cantered
on.

Sooner or later, however, they must meet,
and then — what then ?

A week afterwards we received invitations
for the Academy soiree. As yet none of us
had seen the pictures. Clerehead was to be
Clara's cavalier, and I had promised to escort
Mrs. Le Blanc.

When I arrived at Florence Villa I found
the ladies dressed, and Clerehead first in the
field. He was, as usual, endeavouring to
make himself agreeable, but this time not
succeeding according to his wont. Clara
was distraite, and Mrs. Le Blanc looked
gene ; in point of fact, she always did so
when Clerehead was to the fore. The poor
dear used to tell me, that he generally contrived
to make her feel she was one too
many. Indeed, she often proposed to retire
but Clara would rarely, if ever, permit her todo

so, hence my presence for once seemed a
timely relief to everyone.

Mrs. Le Blanc bustled about and gave me a
cup of tea. She knew that I have a feminine
weakness for " the deadly cup," so she kept
the best, and always brewed it afresh for me.

Crossing her fingers to signify that Clara is
out of temper, she whispers —

"And I don't wonder at it, Robert, for
what do you think ? That abominable trunk
which we lost on our journey to Harrogate,
after all this time has ( turned up ' to-day,
and I don't know where it hasn't been to. To
the North Pole I should think from its dilapidated
appearance. Everything is destroyed
except Clara's little writing-case, and she has
made as much fuss about that, as if it were
filled with Bank of England notes, instead of
a dozen or two dirty old letters."

At this moment the carriage draws up at
the door, and Clerehead, looking at his watch,
says —

Time's up."

Mrs. Le Blanc says — ■

'' Robert, you are my cavalier. Come and
see what a nice boutonniere I've got for you."

I retire into the back part of the room, and
submit to my button-holing like a martyr. I
hear Clerehead. who is sitting beside Clara
on an ottoman at the other end of the room,
say significantly —

Bob is always button-holed. Must I go
undecorated ? "

I am standing with my back to them, but
the mirror before me reflects what is going
on in the opposite direction. For the second
time I have reason to feel grateful to a piece
of plate glass.

Clara rises mechanically, and wearily, it
seems to me, plucks a flower or two from her
bouquet — is in the act of placing it in Forehead's
coat, when he does something which
sends every drop of blood in my body in one
rush to my heart, and then, in another moment

VOL. ill. O

(or surely my heart must have burst), back
into my knuckles !

Let me endeavour to describe the incident
accurately.

At the moment she is in the act of placing
the posy in his button-hole, he whispers in
her ear. Then suddenly he clasps her waist
with his left arm, and draws her closely to
him. In a flash, her two hands are upon his
chest — with the impact, they both recoil a
couple of paces distance, and stand looking
at each other, eye to eye.

There is a ring in his hand, a posy in hers.

She flings the unoffending flowers in the
fire — he throws the ring in after it. She goes
over to the piano, and improvises a fantasia,
as we return to the front room. All this is
done quietly, noiselessly, and in far less time
than it takes to describe.

." Good people," says Clara. " I am
resolve. Our friend here, has bethought

him of a most important engagement, which
will preclude the possibility of his taking us
to see the pictures to-night."

M Yes, most important," replied Clerehead.
11 By Jove ! I fear I shall be late as it is. I
know you will excuse me, so au revoir."

11 No," said Clara, gravely. Then rising
and making a stately curtsey. " Not ' au
revoir ! ' Adieu ! — Mr. Clerehead."

Adieu then," he replied, and bowing with
dignity, he left the room.

A moment later, and his carriage was being
driven furiously away.

That was his last visit to Florence Villa.
He had played his best card— played it badly,
and lost the game !

Ten minutes before I hated the man, now
I felt sorry for him — but the two women (how
barbarous are women to those that love them
upon my honour, I think they are worse
even than men !) were perfectly ebullient.

Mrs. Le Blanc, who had never attempted to
disguise her aversion for Clerehead, knew, and
rejoiced to know, that her enemy was discomfited
and had got his cone — while Clara
appeared as if she had shaken off an incubus.
I alone remained sad and silent. u A fellow
feeling makes us wondrous kind." It was
his turn to-day — it might be mine tomorrow.

Mrs. Le Blanc, however, soon recalled me
to myself.

Now, Robert," she said, " this is like old
times — you'll have to escort us both. I'll
send round to Clarke's for the brougham" —
and then she whispered archly — " I think my
posy has brought you luck, sir ! "

THE PICTURE.

Would you not deem it breathed, and that these veins
Did verily bear blood ? "

The Academy was more than usually
crowded. All the world and his wife were
there. Princes and Princesses of the blood
jostled with great generals and gallant admirals,
their breasts ablaze with medals won
in famous battles by land and sea. The
Grand Old Man and his charming wife
beamed " upon the Lord of Burleigh as if
they had never broken a lance together ; the
airy young Chancellor appeared to chum with
the grim leader of the Home Rulers. The

man with " the coat of many colours " triumphantly
displayed in his button-hole the
latest thing in orchids; the great Marquis
looked less glum than usual ; and the gracious
President (more like Roman Antony than
ever) did the honours with his accustomed
urbanity. The Foreign Ambassadors, the
Chinese Legation, the Japanese Embassy, a
famous Indian Prince (a charming person —
fresh from the dethronement and murder of
his brother), glittered with all the jewels of
the Orient, while Bishops and Archbishops en
grande tenue, commingled with Judges, and
heaven-born hereditary legislators. The Lord
Mayor, and other city magnates, sedately
splendid in black velvet, steel buttons, and
civic chains, for once vouchsafed to rub
shoulders with the motley mob of authors,
orators, savants, African and Arctic travellers
lawyers, painters, publishers, sculptors, soldiers,
sailors, journalists, and even actors and
other obscure persons.

Conspicuous amongst a constellation of
feminine loveliness, magnificently attired in
the latest novelty from Worth's atelier, resplendent
with gems, gorgeous in laces,
eccentric and wonderful in gloves, ravishing
in the most bewitching of coiffures, stood
forth " La Belle Russe." No one knew by
what back-stairs influence this woman had
gained admittance into this select coterie ;
but there she was, convoyed by her latest
conquest, a tall, handsome wealthy young
Attache of the Austrian Legation, and holding
her own with characteristic insolence and
superb audacity.

I have given but a faint idea of the brilliant
scene which met our eyes as we entered.
The murmur of a thousand pleasant voices,
with hundreds of brave men and beautiful
women moving in graceful motion, made a
picturesquely magnificent ensemble.

To-night Clara was something like her old
self. She beamed with life and gaiety ; and

as we moved from picture to picture, she
noted, with unerring accuracy, the features of
the exhibition.

Caroline and Milly (who had preceded us
but a few moments) attracted more attention
than the glowing canvases which lined the
walls, and indeed they entirely eclipsed the
living beauties who surrounded them.

As they moved slowly towards the central
room, accompanied by Frogmore, who, as
usual, was their escort, they encountered an
excited crowd which had congregated i n front
of one picture. The loud hum of voices
subsided into silence, and the distinguished
mob opened out on either side as the two
girls approached.

The silence then gave way to a general
movement of eager curiosity.

La Belle Russe " superciliously levelled
her pince-nez at Caroline ; but the first
gentleman in the room (or in Europe, for

that matter) deliberately placed himself
between her and the Russian, as he said —

Miss Challoner, permit me to show you
something which must, I am sure, possess
special interest for you." Then he led her
forward to the picture.

It was the " counterfeit presentment" of
Hamlet and Ophelia before referred to.
Though only life size, the figures appeared
of almost colossal magnitude. Caroline
scarcely cast one glance at her own likeness
all lovely though it was; she had eyes
only for Him. There he stood, attired
exactly as he was when last they had met
on the night of the fire — the leonine head,
the fell of golden hair, the true and tender
eyes-fixed full upon her own — the majestic
figure in the very act of springing forth from
the canvas.

For a moment she remained motionless —
the blood rushed to her brow, went back to
her heart — then she turned pale as death ;

and, without a sound, even as she had fallen
before his feet upon that awful night when he
had plucked her from the jaws of death, even
so she fell now, void of sense and motion.

At this very instant, while all around stood
awed and spell-bound, as fate, or accident,
would have it, we reached the spot. As.
Clara caught sight of the picture, she, too,
stood transfixed. There, upon the ground,
lay the woman He loved ; and there, towering
above her, stood the woman who loved Him I
Both young, lovely, and beloved, rich in all
the world's choicest gifts, yet hungering
fiercely, pining their proud hearts away, for
one man's love — that man, alas ! an outcast,
and a wanderer on the face of the earth.

Meanwhile, society stood dazed, as it contemplated
the most striking picture exhibited
in the Academy that night ; the meeting of
those two unhappy women beneath the fateful
shadow of the unfortunate man, whom they

had both

Loved, not wisely, but too well ! "

Caroline lay with her head reclined in
profile, as it were, upon her right arm, which
was extended towards the picture ; her dark
hair, bursting from the knot which bound it,
covered her neck and shoulders, as with an
iridescent mantle of sable, through which the
other arm gleamed, white and beautiful as
ivory ; while Clara stood erect, her hands
clenched, her teeth fixed, her eyes still
riveted on the picture.

Thus, for a moment, we all stood, as if
transformed to stone ; the first to break the
spell was Milly, who threw herself beside her
friend, and, with the Duke's aid, tenderly
lifted her head from the ground, resting it
upon her knee.

A distinguished-looking old gentleman, who

turned out to be Sir Henry H , the eminent

physician, came forward, and kneeling beside
Caroline, felt her pulse and closed her eyelids.
With a reassured look, he whispered

something to the P ; then, turning to

Clara, he tried to unclasp her hands, but
tried in vain. Then he bade me get her
home immediately.

There is no danger," he said ; " nothing
but a sudden shock to the nervous system.
A few days' rest, and she will be quite well."

Finding that Caroline was being cared for,
Mrs. Le Blanc and I endeavoured to lead
Clara away ; but she remained rigid and immovable,
and we could not induce her to stir
from the spot.

A mob is a mob everywhere — whether they
are attired in swallow-tailed coats, and
recollected dresses, or in the rags and
wretchedness of the slums ; save that I
think your fashionable mob the least sympathetic
in existence.

Opinions were divided as to the tragedy
going on before their eyes.

Some regarded it as Clerehead's last

sensational advertisement for Caroline's reappearance
at the Frivolity ; others, as a
remarkably fine tableau vivant, devised between
the two women to attract attention to
the picture of Hamlet and Ophelia.

La Belle Russe," with a shrug of her
ample shoulders, lounged languidly across
the room, leaving Caroline and Clara to their
numerous sympathizers.

Chut ! Chut ! " she murmured, contemptuously,
to the Austrian. " I don't
believe in women who faint, especially these
play-acting people. It's one of the tricks of
their trade. By-the-bye, who is the man ?
For, of course, there is a man in the
case."

Leisurely adjusting her pine e-ne 2 ) she proceeded
to take stock of the picture. Then,
just as if she had been appraising a horse, a
bullock, or some other beast of burden, she
continued —

11 H'm ! I understand. A fair piece of
flesh for those hussies to fight about. Who
is this young Heracles with the golden mane
and big blue eyes, who looks as if he is going
to leap upon and devour us all ? "

Oh ! I suppose one of the actor people,"
the Austrian replied.

This an actor? Psha ! Nonsense! It
isn't good form for the players to be manly,
nowadays. They are nothing if not epicene.
Half-a-dozen of those play-actor creatures
wouldn't make a man like this. He is, for all
the world, like one of those brawny, Gothic
gladiators that the Roman women went mad
about in the days of the Lower Empire ; and
I must say I rather admire their taste. Do
you know, Oscar, I protest the Sclav blood
in my veins stirs, when I think of those
women descending into the arena to fight
for their men, in the eyes of all Rome. Ah !
life was real, life was earnest ; ' life was
worth living in those days. We are getting

sadly too civilized. Yonder people of the
pavement have the pull of us — they say
what they mean, and do what they like,
while we — Ah ! if we could only rise
superior to vulgar prejudice, the world would
become endurable by-and-bye ! "

Why don't you put yourself forward,
then, in the march of enlightenment, ma
chere Princesse ? " blandly enquired the
Austrian.

Why ? Because, look you, in this excellent
England, your parson does not practise
what he preaches, so I preach what I may
not practise. Besides, there is my husband !
Why husbands were ever invented I can't
understand, except to pay one's debts.
Demerits never pays mine though ; au contraire,
I have to pay his, as well as my
own.

Go away — you are a bad boy — and I —
well, I'll think of it. Meanwhile I will take
tea, and you shall talk scandal — I like both ;

we can imbibe the one and emit the other
at the same time." And so they moved
away.

By this time Caroline's carriage was waiting
— the Duke and one of his friends lifted
her gently from the ground, and moved with
her towards the vestibule, accompanied by
Milly and the doctor.

Clara, quietly extricating herself from Mrs.
Le Blanc and myself, turned and followed — ■
her hands still clenched together, and her
eyes fixed.

The crowd gave way, and we kept side by
side with her. When we reached the doors,
Caroline was lifted into the carriage and
Clara halted on the threshold — following the
departing vehicle with eager eyes, until it
disappeared. Then she began to thaw — her
bosom heaved convulsively — her hands relaxed
— and were stretched forth, as if in
mute entreaty ; inarticulate sounds struggled

to her lips, until at last I could distinguish the
words —

Alas ! alas ! the evil I have done ! "

As we stood waiting for the brougham, I
saw the wicked eyes of the Russian woman
fixed upon us ; I heard her say quite aloud,
and without the slightest affectation of reticence,
to her Austrian cavalier —

Is it a comedy, or a Porte St. Martin
drama, these mummers are acting for our
diversion ? Ma foi — it is amusing, and I
dare say it would be interesting, if one could
only see the sin of it.

Regardez cela, mon ami — night and
morning !

Those big swarthy savages always have a
p enchant for those horrible red-haired women.
Chacun a son gout. Being fair myself I
naturally adore dark men — not exactly
black — one must draw the line somewhere,
you know — suppose we say the Maharajah.
Now, Desdemona didn't draw the line — and

VOL. III. p

she came to grief in consequence. All the
same, I bet a dozen pairs of gloves ('s
sixteen buttons) to a quill toothpick,
that yonder Desdemona will have that huge,
gaunt nigger after all ! "

Thank God ! my poor darling could not
comprehend one syllable the creature uttered
but I stood, and writhed, and only wished
the Austrian would afford me a decent pretext
to shoot him — or, that his paramour had
been a man, that I might have struck her to
my feet ! The Attache, however, was wise in
his generation, and remained discreetly undemonstrative,
and so, with this wanton's
ribald laughter still ringing in our ears, we
returned to Florence Villa.

found!

u Too late ! Terrible words, too late ! "

Next morning — when I call early at Morley's
— I meet Clerehead in the ante-room.
The moment he sees me he exclaims —

Brain fever, by Jove ! I've never had
such trouble in my life as I've had with these
country actresses of yours — and all about a
man ! One man too ! If there were only
one man in the world I could understand it
perfectly. Well — well — every Jack, except
me, has his Jill — sometimes half-a-dozen of

'em for that matter — but it isn't every Jill
that gets her Jack. Here's this young idiot
Frogmore going mooning mad over a woman,
who would sooner have Jack Herbert, without
a shilling or a shirt, than she'd have this duffer
of a Duke, if every hair on his head was hung
with diamonds as big as walnuts ; and
there's my poor little darling Milly — the
best girl on the face of the earth — has lost
her heart to him — and the ass don't see it !
Don't talk to me — I've no patience with anything
or anybody. But there, there ! I must
cut my stick, and alter the advertisements.
The Challoner' won't be able to act this
side of Christmas, that's certain — and l The
Judgment of Paris ' must be postponed sine
die. And look here, Bob, I got a facer last
night. It's no use trying to look so innocent
you know all about it ! I am out of the
hunt at Florence Villa, but I bear you no
malice, old man ; stick to her, stick to her,
and you are bound to win at last ! "

Away he goes to see after his advertisements,
while I drive to Regent's Park.

Mrs. Le Blanc tells me that Clara has
passed the night in alternations of sobbing
and sleeping, and wild exclamations about
intercepted letters."

For two days I oscillate betwixt Trafalgar
Square and Florence Villa. Caroline is
delirious, the doctor wants to cut off her hair ;
but Milly pleads so piteously to spare it that
he gives in, and the beautiful raven tresses remain
intact.

Mrs. Le Blanc has an important communication
to make. For the past two days Clara
has been confined to her bed ; for the past
two nights she has wandered in her sleep ;
she gets up and lights a candle ; Mrs. Le
Blanc, very much alarmed, naturally gets up
and follows. She finds Clara at her desk in
the drawing-room counting a packet of unopened
but discoloured letters ; she counts

them incessantly, beginning at one and ending
at seven, and as incessantly reads the superscription,
which, in most instances, is in a
female hand, and runs thus —

John Herbert, Esq.,

King's Head Hotel,

Kingstown."

When she has counted them repeatedly,
she returns them to the desk, locks it, returns
to her chamber, muttering " Too late ! too
late ! "

Being neither of us destitute of ordinary
intelligence, we are not long in divining the
truth. We both arrive at the conclusion that
it is desirable, nay, even absolutely necessary,
as a mere act of justice to Herbert, that Caroline
should know the truth also.

Naturally I think that Mrs. Le Blanc had
better break the ice herself.

She replies — " You know, Robert, how
headstrong and impetuous she is. She may
reproach me for playing the spy ; she may

even leave me. Then what should I do ? —
what should I do ? She is as an only child tome.
I am growing old, and cannot live without
her. She esteems you highly ; she would
not lose your esteem for the world, and sometimes
I have dared to hope — but time will
show. Meanwhile, you know I have always
been your friend ; be mine, be hers ; she will
listen to you ; you don't know how much she
likes you ; speak to her, advise her, tell her
that it is her duty — see, she is here ! God
give you strength and courage, for all our
sakes ! "

She leaves the room as Clara enters. She
is pale and wan, her eyes fixed, her unkempt
and abundant hair streaming down her
shoulders over her white peignoir.

We meet with more than usual restraint,
more than even usual embarrassment, and I
leave her without daring even to broach
the subject, far less to dictate a course of
action.

When I arrive at Morley's Caroline is worse.
Sir Henry tells me that her malady is that of
a mind diseased, and all the physic in the
pharmacopoeia will do her no good.

Mr. Penarvon," said he, " Miss Forehead
tells me you are Miss Challoner's oldest
friend.

Her life trembles in the balance.

In her delirium she continually speaks of
being stabbed by Roxana.

Who, in the name of fate, is Roxana ?

Of a fire, in which she has been in great
peril. Of Jack (whoever Jack may be), of his
being ill ; of a prison, in which he is, or has
been immured, and of his having left her ' for
that other one.'

Of course, that ' other one ' is a woman.
Then she raves incessantly about some letters.
Whether they have been sent to her, or
whether she has sent them to someone —
whether they have been intercepted or stolen
I don't know. If you can find a clue to this

mystery you may, perhaps, save her life. I
ought to tell you I fear she is subject to heart-disease
; another attack like this may prove
fatal. I can do no more for her. Good
morning."

I do not stop to think now ; had I done so,
I could never have mustered courage to pass
the ordeal which I knew awaited me at
Florence Villa.

I drive back at once ; the door is open ; I
rush into the drawing-room ; Clara is seated
with her back to me, at her writing-desk ; she
is counting those very letters, and is actually
reading the address aloud —

"John Herbert, Esq., King's Head Hotel,
Kingstown."

A moment's delay will prove fatal, so I
plunge in at once.

Those letters belong to John Herbert, and
not to you, Miss Trevor! "

She springs to her feet, and the lid of the
desk falls with a bang ; her eyes flash fire as

she confronts me, and hisses through her
teeth —

"Spy! Traitor!"

Insult me as you please ; but for his sake,
for hers, and, above all, for your own, listen !

Caroline Challoner lies at death's door !
'Twas she who wrote those letters. She believes
that John Herbert received them ; that
he was base and unmanly enough never to
have acknowledged them, by even one line.
The belief in his perfidy and ingratitude is
killing her. That weight of woe lifted from
her heart, her life maybe spared. If she dies,
Clara Trevor, as sure as there is a heaven
above us, her death will lie heavily at your
door."

She paused for a moment before she
plucked forth the packet of letters, and cast it
at my feet, as she exclaimed —

As God is my judge, when these letters
returned to my hands, eight-and-forty hours
ago, I knew not where to find this woman. Go,

take them to her, doubtless she will reward
your abject adoration. Possibly, since she
cannot have the man she loves, she may be
content to take him who has stooped to play
the spy for her sake ! "

I— a spy— I— oh ! Clara ! "

Not another word, sir. Begone, and
never darken my doors again."

61 Miss Trevor ! " said I, (l your secret is
your own. If your heart does not dictate
your course, all I can say will be idle. I
will endeavour to forgive the cruel words
you have uttered, although, I fear, I can
never forget them. For the rest, though you
may not esteem, you shall not despise me. I
will never darken your doors again, so long
as I live, until you ask me. But remember,
even if I am at the other end of the world,
should you ever need me, you have only to
say one word, ' Come.' And now I only hope
that you may find a truer friend, a more devoted
servant, than Robert Penarvon."

And so I passed forth to the desolation
which comes of despair.

What that proud heart suffered before it
was subdued, Heaven only knows ; the nobler
nature, however, triumphed at last, and an
hour later, with eyes a-fire and cheeks aflame,
Clara Trevor dashed into Caroline
Challoner's chamber and placed the fatal
letters in her hands.

There was nothing to keep back, so in
earnest and hurried words Clara told the
simple truth.

I do not think there were two purer, better,
nobler creatures on earth than these two
women ; but after all, they were only women,
not angels ; and the best of the sex, as far
as my observation goes, are rarely or ever
just, certainly never generous to each otherwhere
a man stands between them.

The one was not so gracious as she might
have been to her sometime rival, and she was

utterly unappreciative of the fact, that the
other's generous but Quixotic effort to rescue
my unfortunate friend from prison on the
night of the tempest, had nearly cost her, her
life.

Hence it was I suppose that Caroline replied,
like a cold but implacable virgin
martyr —

When I have found him, I will forgive
you ; but not till then."

A hasty answer sprang to Clara's lips, but
restraining herself she replied with quiet
dignity —

You might have spared me that, Miss
Challoner. Ask yourself, hereafter, if it
be just. The world is at your feet ; you
have fame, fortune ; you know that he loves
you, that you have only to lift your finger to
call him to your side ; surely you can afford
to be generous, to one who has failed, where
you have succeeded. For me, God is merciful,
and will, I hope, give me strength to bear

my burthen ; perhaps, in time, will teach me
to be grateful to those who love me better —
far better than I deserve ! "

And so " The Rival Queens " parted never
to meet again on earth.

BROWN— " NO. 5."

Not age, but sorrow hath wrought this change in me."

ALTHOUGH at this period he had passed out
of my mind altogether, I hope the reader has
not entirely forgotten poor Jemmy Green the
clown.

He was a hard-working and industrious
little chap ; and ever since Herbert had set
him up in business, after the accident, he had
never looked back. To say that he was
eternally grateful to his benefactor, were to
put the case a little too mildly. Herbert's name
was on his lips with a blessing from morning

till night ; while Mrs. Green, who was a pious,
little body, brought up her bairns to pray
night and morning for i( father, and mother,
and Captain Herbert."

Jemmy was awfully cut up when he heard
of Jack's misfortunes; but, as ill-luck would
have it, he didn't hear of the fire until three
or four weeks after the occurrence. The
very day he did hear of it, he consulted
Lisa," drew out every shilling he had in the
bank, for Jack's use, and bolted down to
Hillsboro', where he unfortunately arrived justin
time to be too late.

When the arrest took place, Jemmy was
confined to his bed with rheumatism, and
couldn't put one limb before the other; but
as soon as he could pull himself together, he
took the train to Bolingbroke. Still the same
fatality— " Too late!"

He enquired here, there, everywhere, consulted
the theatrical journals, but could obtain

no clue to Herbert's whereabouts, and, indeed,
his anxiety on this subject was a constant and
abiding grief to the honest fellow, despite the
fact that the world had prospered exceedingly
with him. He had a capital and continually
increasing business as a cabinet maker in
Lesson Grove, where he kept two apprentices
and five men in full swing.

Of course, he might have sat at home and
smoked his pipe in peace, and enjoyed himself
in the bosom of his family (which was
continually increasing, too !), but, when Christmas
came he could not keep out of the
theatre, so just for occupation's sake he used
to go to " Drury Lane" at night, to assist in
the lime-light department.

Christmas had come, and the pantomime
rehearsals were in full blast at "the Lane,"
but as yet Jemmy had not turned up, not
being required until the scenic rehearsal, and
Tom Smith (the renowned Signor Tomaso

VOL. III. Q

Schmiderine), who was engaged as harlequin,
was looking out anxiously for his old pantomimic
pal, to whom he had important information
to communicate — information obtained
in the following manner.

One morning, while the business for the
supers" in the harlequinade was being
arranged, the clown, Harry P — , said to the
super-master —

Giles, I have a very important bit of 'business
' here. Can you let me have a dependable
man? "

Yes, sir," says Giles, and, looking at his
list, he calls out —

No. 5, step this way."

Out steps No. 5 from the front rank.

A tall, soldier-like man, with dark eyebrows
and weird, melancholy eyes, and hair as white
as snow — a seedy suit of black, buttoned upto
the throat, shining tall hat, boots patched
but polished, dark gloves very much darned
a gentleman, from the top of his poor

worn hat, to the sole of his broken-down
boots.

Here, sir," says u No. 5," giving a sort of
military salute.

When Tom Smith heard that voice, it
pierced his heart like a knife. He had
never heard but one voice like that, in his
life.

Guv'nor, is that you?" he enquired, as
soon as he recovered his breath.

My name is Brown, sir," says " No. 5."

"Oh! Brown be blowed ! " says Tom.
"You're the captain or his ghost."

Neither the one nor the other," says the
gaunt man in black. " I'm simply Brown
1 No. s ' at your service, gentlemen, and I'll
do the best I can with anything you will
entrust me with."

So there was an end of the conversation
that morning.

No. 5 " had his ' business ' allotted to him,
and did it with a skill and dexterity not

usually found in gentlemen at eighteenpence
or half-a-crown a night.

During the next three or four days, Tom
tried to draw him out — nay, even suggested,
with a certain amount of diffidence, that they
should liquor up " round the corner," but only
met with a curt —

No thanks, sir ; not before dinner."

Dinner, poor fellow ! He looked as if he
hadn't dined for weeks !

At the first rehearsal, Tom noticed that
No. 5 " appeared in delicate health, and
every day, though punctual to the moment,
he seemed to get weaker and weaker.

On Friday, after the rehearsal, " Mr.
Brown " was strolling leisurely from the
stage-door, under the Piazza, towards Covent
Garden.

Simultaneously an open landau, yoked to a
pair of spanking greys, was being driven up
Catherine Street, from the Strand, towards the

box entrance. Beside the driver, who was a
stylish young man, there sat a woman of distinguished
appearance, closely veiled, and
enveloped in sables.

Just as the carriage approached the vestibule
of the theatre, and the driver was about
to alight, Brown had reached the end of the
Piazza. At this moment a runaway horse
attached to a hansom cab, without a driver,
careered wildly down Bow Street, over
Russell Street, and bang down Catherine
Street towards the Strand.

The two greys caught the alarm, threw
their heads in the air and made a bolt, but
they had calculated without " Mr. Brown."

At peril of his life, he threw himself before
them, and hung on their reins like grim death.
They dragged him across towards Covent
Garden, but, before they had reached the
bottom of Bow Street, they had found their
master, and fell back upon their haunches,
quivering and vanquished.

The young man jumped out of the carriage
to thank his preserver. During the struggle
the woman had never moved, but sat fixed as
fate, calm and impassive, as if it made no
earthly difference to her whether she were
smashed or not.

The danger over, she lifted her veil
mechanically. Mr. Brown lifted his hat ;
their eyes met ; she started as if she had seen
a ghost, vainly tried to speak, and fell back
senseless.

The Duke, (for it was he,) looked from one
to the other. " Mr. Brown" turned very
white — white as his hair — stood for a moment
irresolute, then bowed with grave politeness,
walked rapidly up the Piazza, and disappeared
within the stage door.

The lodge was empty, so he sat down in
the porter's chair and coughed violently.
When he withdrew his handkerchief it was
stained with blood. He smiled curiously —
and muttered — " So best."

Presently he picked himself up, as well ashe
could, crossed over Drury Lane, staggered
down Kemble Street, and disappeared through
one of the adjacent slums.

Meanwhile Caroline remained insensible, so
there was nothing for it but to drive her
home.

When she recovered, her first enquiry
was —

Where is he ? Why doesn't he come ? "

Why doesn't who come ? "

He ! he ! the man who saved us."

"He went in at the stage door of Drury
Lane," replied Frogmore ; " that was the last
I saw of him."

Go ! go ! don't mind me ; find him — bring
him, Fred ! For Heaven's sake," she almost
screamed, " don't come back without him."

Without another word away went the Duke
to Drury Lane — to consult the hall porter.
That important functionary vouchsafed the

information that " There was such a person as
his Grace ' had described, connected with the
theatre. Pantomime was rehearsed to-night
at seven. Would ' his Grace ' call again ? "

His Grace " did call again, and again
after that, on Saturday morning, but there
was no sign of " Mr. Brown." " He would be
sure, however, to be at the final rehearsal on
Saturday night. Oh, yes, he was on the
supers' list, ' Brown No. 5. ' "

When the Duke brought back this news to
Caroline, she was like a mad-woman. She
raved, she stormed, and tore her hair, as she
cried —

"What! He! He! the truest gentleman,
the greatest actor in the world ! He a
'super!' He herd with canaille! Impossible
! it could not be ! "

Every word she spoke, stabbed poor Frog-more,
but he was thorough, staunch to the
backbone, so he only plucked his huge,
tawny moustache, and said —

Look here, Carry, we don't know what
may have happened. I'll go again to-night,
and you shall go with me. Meanwhile I'll
look up Penarvon, and get him to come with
us. He knows all these people."

Poor lad ! he remembered what followed
for many a long day.

She dried her tears, took his hand, kissed
it, and said —

God bless you, Fred."

Then he left her alone with her great grief,
and both waited anxiously for the night to
come.

UNITED.

11 And have I found the lost again ?
Yes ! I with him at last am wed,
Where hearts are never rent in twain

And tears are never shed ! " Schiller.

When Tom Smith found " No. 5 " absent
from rehearsal on Friday night and Saturday
morning, his anxiety increased tenfold, and
he, too, impatiently awaited the night's
rehearsal.

The transformation scene had to be " set"
and lighted after the harlequinade, so of
course Jemmy Green " turned up" at last
with his india rubber bags, his boards and

bull's-eye, elastic tubing, weights, and the
rest of the " paraphernalia'' as he called it.

As soon as Tom caught sight of his old
chum, he bolted over to him, and eagerly communicated
his suspicions as to the identity of
Mr. Brown."

You don't say so ! " exclaimed Jemmy,
dropping the " paraphernalia " in a heap on
the stage. " Good-bye ; I'm off ! "

Where to ? " enquires Tom.

Wherever he is in this village," shouts
Jemmy. " You bet your bottom dollar on
that ! " and away he rushes to the super-master.


In an eager and excited manner he says, or
rather shrieks —

Mr. Giles, do you happen to know what's
become o' ' No. 5,' and where he hangs
out?"

No, I don't, Jemmy," says Giles, " and
what's more I don't think any o' my chaps
does.

11 Here, I say, lads, do any o' you know-where
' Brown No. 5 ' roosts ? "

I should think somewhere in Buckingham
Palace," roars out a Life Guardsman.
If he don't he order, he's such a precious
gentleman, he is ! "

This graceful compliment elicits a yell of
laughter.

What for you laugh like sat ? " enquires
the good-natured ballet mistress, little
Madame Folijambe, giving her fair but
fractious pupils a rest for five minutes.

Only because Giles axed the sweeps if
they knew where a poor gent by the name o'
Brown lived," says Jemmy, indignantly.

Brown ! Mistake Brown ! What, ze knight
of ze rueful countenance — ze gentilhomme
vis ze beautiful vite air — Don Quixote, as
zee graceless young monkeys call him ? "

Yes, poor fellow, that's the very gentleman
we want."

Excusez-moi" said Madame Folijambe,

then beckoning to a bright little coryphee — ■
Fanny, mon enfant, tell Monsieur Jemmy
vere your Don Quixote 'hang out 'is flag."

Poor gentleman," says Fanny, " he lives
where I live."

For goodness sake, i'm," gasps Jemmy,
let Fan come with us and show us the way.
It may be a matter of life and death."

Avec plaisir. Allons ! Vite ! Off you
go, Fanny. I will take your place till you
return, but mind you come back sharp,
ma chere"

Away go Fanny, Tom, and Jemmy, scudding
across the stage like wild-fire.

Stop ! stop ! " roars the foreman of the
lime-light apparatus. " Here, I say, Jemmy,
what's a-going' to become o' them there bags
o' your ? "

Oh ! the bags be blanked ! " roars Jemmy,
and in a minute's time they are at the stage
door, literally canning against the Duke,
Caroline, and myself as we are about to enter.

Caroline grasps the situation in a moment.
She knows Jemmy and Tom ; indeed, she
was in Castletown at the time of the accident.


Before I can get out a word she says —

11 Mr. Green — Mr. Smith — you know me ? "

Jemmy growls —

Know you ? We ain't likely to forget
you. You're the woman as he killed himself
for, you're — "

Never mind me, if you please," she says,
very gently. " Where is he? — that's what I
want to know."

We're a-going' to find him, and here's
Fanny Dexter a-going' to show us the way."

Then jump in," says Frogmore, pointing
to the carriage, " and you can talk as you go
along." Then he enquired of Fanny —
Where shall we drive to, my dear? "

No. 20/£, Haywood's Rents, Lincoln's Inn
Fields, sir," she replied.

All right," says the Duke ; " in with you.

Come down, Holmes, I'll drive, and you can
walk on. You, sir," to Tom Smith, " please
jump up beside me."

Short as the drive was, Fanny found time to
tell us how she became acquainted with her
dear Don Quixote."

It seems that one night, or rather one
morning early, after a long rehearsal of the
pantomime, the poor child was wending her
way homeward, when she was waylaid by a
prowler of the Crutch and Toothpick Brigade,
who had accosted her more than once without
waiting for the ceremony of an introduction,
and who on this occasion was more
pressing than polite. In fact, the fellow had
got his arm round the girl, when, to his
astonishment, he found himself taken by the
neck and the breech, and landed in the gutter
on the other side of Drury Lane.

With a quiet " Excuse me, you have made
a slight mistake here, sir, " and " Permit me,

my dear," " Mr. Brown " offered Fanny his
arm, and escorted her home in safety.

And now, i'm," says she, " comes the
strangest part of the story. We had been
living in the same house more nor a month,
though neither of us knew it."

The girl continued to chatter away, unheeding
and unheeded. Then all was silent,
and we could hear nothing save the beating of
our hearts, while we passed slowly up one
slum, and down another.

Amidst the darkness and the silence Caroline
muttered, impatiently —

Shall we never get there ? "

At length the carriage stopped.

Frogmore leaped down and opened the door.

Here we are," he said ; " jump out."

She sprang forth quickly ; the girl followed.
Then I said to Caroline —

"We may be de trop, so I think we had
better stay here till you send for us."

Quite right, Bob," said the Duke. " We
will stay here till morning if it is necessary."

Caroline took his hand and pressed it fervently
; then she shook hands with me, and,
turning to Fanny, she said —

No words — no words, child — only lead
the way. Quick ! quick, or we may be too
late. Too late ! Oh ! no, no, not that ! "

The alley was dimly lighted with one small
lamp. Quickly as the girl fled up the noisome
court, Caroline kept pace with her without
faltering, until they reached an open doorway
at the farther end.

Immediately opposite was a flight of dilapidated
oaken stairs (with rudely-carved
balusters), rising one above the other, seven
stories high. A small paraffin lamp stood
lighted on a projection in the corner. Fanny
took it in her hand, and knocked at the first
door on the ground floor.

A sleepy old crone, with a red petticoat
thrown hastily over her shoulders, appeared.
The girl enquired for " Mr. Brown f" " was
anything the matter with him ? "

VOL. III. R

The old woman mumbled " she really
didn't know — he always attended on himself
she never knew when he was in or out.
Oh ! yes, a rale gentian he was. Allays
paid his rent — allays — that is to say, allays,
'kept last week. Could the lady see him ?
In course she could if she liked — but his
room's seven stories high — and your feet's
younger nor mine, Fanny — so repose you
show the lady hup yourself."

Up they went, flight after flight, till they
reached the summit of the house — an attic
just beneath the roof ; there was only one, so
there could be no mistake about it.

That will do — thank you, child."

Shall I stay with you, lady ? "

No — no — I'll light you down, only go —
go quickly."

She stamped her foot fiercely and said —

4( Go I tell you — go! Stop! Tell those
men not to come here, until I call them ! "

As the girl disappeared in the darkness,

Caroline approached the door, and tapped
gently.

No reply. She tapped again — still no
answer. Then she entered the room. Immediately
opposite was a window, through which
the moonlight streamed clear as noontide ; to
her right a small, empty, rusty fireplace, one
chair, and a small table. Writing materials
a letter addressed to her, and one to me —
an empty medicine bottle, and a lamp shedding
a dim light around.

To her left, the bed — on which He lay,
quite still and calm — the white face, on the
white pillow, the abundant, curling, white
hair, forming an aureole round the white
brow — the eyes looking far, ever so far away.

For a moment she stood, as if spellbound
then the forgotten voice murmured — as
in a dream —

tl Caroline — come back to me ! Come
back, my darling ! Oh ! come back — before
I die."

With a wild cry of mingled grief and joy
she flew towards him. She lifted him in her
arms — she pressed him to her heart — she
kissed his brow, his eyes, his cheeks, his
lips — she tried to breathe the vitality of her
rich, ripe womanhood into his enfeebled
life — she showered caresses and endearments
upon him.

Oh ! Jack ! " she cried, " I have waited
so long for you — so long and so patiently
now that I have found you, don't leave me.
Dear God ! don't let him die — not for my
sake ; I know I am not worthy of him, but
for his own ! Oh ! Jack ! Jack ! my prince !
my king of men ! My darling ! live — oh !
live for me ! "

Carry," he said, and the old music
trembled through his voice, " I was very
proud, and very wicked — and God has
punished me for doubting you — but now I
am forgiven, for He has brought you back
to me before I die."

No— no ! Not that ! For His dear love
—don't say that ! You shall not die ! No,
no!"

Hush ! dear, Hush ! " he said, and the
poor white hand, thin almost to transparency,
stole round her as he partially arose. u See,
sweetheart." And he placed his other hand in
his bosom, as he drew forth the miniature she
had given him in the old, happy time, long
ago. The brilliant and the blue-black hair
were twined around it still.

It has never left me living — don't let
them take it from me when I am dead.
Now let me ' kiss you, love, as bridegroom
kisses bride.'

Ah ! I am happy now ! "

The moon sinks to rest behind the clouds.

The lamp flickers and goes out.

The bride and groom (are they not so ?)
are left alone ; alone with silence and darkness
— silence, dread and sinister — darkness
awful and profound.

We wait and watch below, while the hours
creep on with leaden feet.

Still silence and darkness.

Heavens ! will the day never dawn ?

At last. Hark ! hark !

The birds from near Gray's Inn, make glad
the air with music, at sight of the new-born
day. The sun, emerging from the Orient,
sheds a misty, nebulous, radiance, over every
land and every sea — over everything beneath
the cope of heaven-from the palace of the
prince, to the hovel of the beggar — penetrating
everywhere with tremulous shades of
tender azure, and delicate violet, which
quicken presently to imperial purple, and
leap at last into golden fire, lighting up earth,
air, and sky, and flooding every nook and
cranny of even that desolate chamber with
God's blessed sunshine.

Beneath those radiant beams the lost
glory of John Herbert's youth comes back,
illumining his face with an angel's beauty.

He has passed from the darkness of the
night, into the splendour of the eternal morning
!

And Caroline ?

Hours later we found her, a smile upon
her lips, her arms twined round his neck, in
the last embrace of love and death.

In life they had been severed ; in death
they were united.

Oh, mighty Time ! O ! light days lightly fled,
Ye bear away all tears and griefs of ours.
But ye are pitiful, and never tread
Upon our faded flowers."

Herman Derivable.

By the rapture within us, the rapture around us,
By God who has made us, and love who hath crown'd us,
One sense, and one soul, we are blent, ne'er to sever,
For ever and ever ! For ever and ever ! "

Robert Buchanan.

Hearts bleed and break, men and women
die, as we must die tomorrow, or the next
day. Still, the great world moves on, ever
changing, never resting, and the womb of
the mighty mother, still teems with myriad
ages of the great " to be," while we, poor
insects of to-day, who deem that the eyes of
the universe are fixed upon the ant heaps,
midst which we breathe and have our being,
move over to the infinite, and are forgotten.

Of all who flattered and delivered John
Herbert and Caroline Blake, a year ago,
just half-a-dozen faithful hearts bewail their
untimely fate to-day, as they bewailed them
yesterday, as they will bewail them always.

Time, which stands still with no one,
smites, with impartial hand, the monarch on
his throne and —

"The poor player,
That struts and frets his hour upon the stage
And then is heard no more."

Amongst those who have " moved over " to
the "pale magician" during the past year
is Walton, the solicitor of Rosemount.

His life has been one long fraud, and the
curses of the widow and the orphan have
followed him to his dishonoured grave.
One of the greatest sufferers by his villainy
is Clara Trevor, whom he has robbed of her
inheritance. She is left penniless. Notwithstanding
this calamity, the society
journals announce that " having succeeded

to a large fortune from a distant relative
she has retired from the profession of which
she was so distinguished an ornament, and
will act no more''

Whence the fortune comes from, she knows
not ; but / do.

With the exception of a few trifling
legacies, Caroline, by her will, bequeathed
her entire estate, real and personal, to
Herbert, should he survive her ; failing him,
the property was to revert to me ; failing
me, to the General Theatrical Fund.

With the aid of Messrs. Pearpoint, I have
devised a pious fraud (the only fraud that
eminent firm has ever connived at !), by means
of which half of Caroline's fortune has been
settled on Clara. The legacy has not been
bequeathed in Caroline's name though. I
fear Clara would starve sooner than be indebted
to wealth from such a source.

The legator is supposed to be some distant
relative of Fairfax's, recently deceased, in
Japan.

What is it Evelyn says in the play ? —

And she owes it all to me, and doesn't even guess it ;
to me, the poor scholar, whose hand she rejected, whose
love she despised ! There's some spite in that ! "

Bronson sent me word some ten months
ago, that Brown and his wife were amongst
Walton's victims.

The hoary scoundrel had swindled these
poor old creatures out of the savings of a
lifetime, and nothing was before them but
the workhouse.

On receipt of the news, I wired to Fred tolet
them have whatever they wanted, and to
arrange with old Titus, the station-master,
to pack them off to town at once ; and here
they are, keeping house for me.

Like all the rest of us, they don't grow
younger, but they do their best ; and, after
all, it is pleasant to have people near me,
who, for so long a time, were near Her — and
my friend and benefactor, Fairfax.

Mrs. Brown goes to Regent's Park every

Sunday, and " her ashes live in their wonted
fires ; " for every succeeding visit supplies
her with abundant food for conversation
during the remainder of the week.

Shall I confess it ? Yes !

I've grown rather to look forward to these
disconnected gossips, in which the past is
mixed up with the present, and the future.

I like to listen to the garrulous, honest, old
soul.

She is certainly not the rose ; but she has
been near the rose — and that is the next best
thing.

I have kept my word. For a year— a
whole weary, dreary year — I have never
been to Florence Villa.

I have seen Her often, though she has
never seen me. She seems much changed —
not in her beauty, for that is more imperial
than ever. She is not the Clara of old though :
her demeanour is sad, and the old brightness

and joyousness appear to have passed away.
She has been chastened by suffering.

Mrs. Le Blanc and I are still excellent
good friends. She is free of my chambers,
and when she is in town, she often drops in
for a cup of my famous tea. She always
talks of Her, and constantly urges me to
renew my visits.

One day she is particularly pressing. She
alleges that Clara would be more than glad
to see me ; but she is so proud that she cannot
make the first advance.

I answer —

( Her pride is yet no mate for mine.'
Besides, I've really no time. I am going to
America."

Mrs. Le Blanc is positively startled.

Going to America ! " she gasps.

Yes," I reply. " I've been very seedy of
late, and the doctor prescribes a sea voyage.
Besides, I can kill two birds with one stone —

produce my new drama here, and in the
States simultaneously, and so ensure the
copyright in both countries. My berth is
already taken in the Nebraska ; she makes
the passage in nine days, and sails from
Liverpool on Friday next."

There is an awkward pause for a moment ;
then Mrs. Le Blanc insinuates, pleadingly —

Surely, Robert, you'll come and say
good-bye."

I say good-bye now, dear Laura. Bless
you for all your care and kindness to me, and
to— to Herl"

"And you really mean to leave the
country ? "

Yes."

11 But perhaps you may be shipwrecked,
or drowned, and we, I mean she, would never
see you again."

Much she'd care about that."

Then she bursts out —

How stupid you men are ! Do you mean

to say that you've the inhumanity, the positive
barbarity, to leave the country without a
word to the poor thing? "

That word is for her to speak ! "
Very well, very well ; I've done. Mind !
I don't say ' good-bye ; ' I won't say ' goodbye
! ' Great Shakesperian scholar as you are,
I suppose you never met with these two lines
in your researches —

' Have you not heard it said full oft

A woman's nay doth stand for naught ? '

I've no patience with you, Robert Penarvon.
For a clever man, you are the greatest goose
I ever met in the whole course of my life. ,>
With this she flounces out of the room,
leaving me to my dreams.

"Could she have spoken truly? Could
Clara—"

While I am building castles in the air,
Clerehead bounces in upon me with Frog-more
— just returned from Egypt with his
regiment.

The lad is as brown as an Arab, and as lean
as a greyhound — for he has had hard times
of it out there. They've made a man of him,
however, and it is pleasant to hear his cheery
voice in my lonely room, to feel his honest
fist once more ; but both our eyes grow dim
as we think of " the touch of a vanished hand
and the sound of a voice that is still."

We chat a little about current events, then
he says —

Bob, look here, you know. Milly and I
were spliced ten days ago ! You may well
look flabbergasted ! The pater here would
have it done on the quiet, you know, or I
should have had you for my best man.

il Next week we're going abroad for a month
or two. Milly would like to run down to
Cornwall before we leave ; she's fixed on
Wednesday, and you're to go with us, and
that's about the size of it."

Very sorry," I replied, " but I sail for

VOL. III. S

America on Friday, and I have my baggage
and my outfit to look after."

Now, Bob," said Clerehead, " that isn't
friendly. Milly will be awfully cut up if you
don't go ; in fact, she'll take no excuse— will
she, Fred?"

Certainly not," responded Frogmore.

"Very well then," I replied; " I'll send
my traps on tomorrow, and, as we come back
from Penzance, I'll leave you at Bristol, and
go straight on to Liverpool."

Oh ! that be hanged ! " said Clerehead ;
we'll go down to Liverpool with you, and
see the last of you — won't we, Fred ? Train
leaves Haddington Wednesday morning at
six-thirty, sharp, so make a note of it. I'll
bring a basket of prog, a hamper of wine, and
plenty of 'baccy."

Now mind, Bob, I shall tell Milly she
may expect you," said the Duke, and away
they went.

I devoted all the next day to my preparations,

and arranged for Brown to meet meat
the Delphi Hotel, Liverpool, on Thursday
night.

I went to bed early (at ten o'clock, I think),
so as to make sure of the morning, but I
couldn't sleep a moment, for the thought that
I was leaving the land in which she lived, that
perhaps I should never see her again.

The tardy hours crept on ; at length it
struck two.

I sprang out of bed, feverish and unrefreshed,
pulled the string of the shower-bath
to cool my burning brain ; in vain, it
throbbed more wildly than before. I slipped
on my clothes, rushed into the Strand, hailed
the first cab, and drove to Florence Villa. I
bade the man wait, while I walked round and
round the nest, in which my bird lay sleeping
dreaming perhaps.

Did she ever dream of me, during the
nights and nights, I have watched and
waited through the cold, through the rain,

through the snow, hoping only to catch a
glimpse of her shadow as it fleeted by.
Psha ! What matters ? In a few hours we
shall be parted for ever, and she— oh! no —
not another's — not another's ! I couldn't bear
that!

I drive back to my chambers more feverish,
more unrefreshed, than when I started.

Again to bed. I plunge and toss and
turn ; at last, of course, when I ought to getup,
I am overpowered with a stupor of sleep.
Brown has a difficulty in waking me, and
has almost to drag me out of bed.

I dress mechanically, swallow a cup of
coffee, and start for Haddington, behind a
poor struggling horse that has been out all
night, and breaks down on the way.

Though I have abandoned all hope of
catching the train, I take another cab, and
promise cabby double fare, if I am in time.

Clerehead is waiting at the central entrance
puffing his everlasting cigarette.

Pretty fellow you are! " he bursts out ;
Good job it's a special, or you'd have been
left behind."

"A special to Penzance!" I exclaimed.
Good heavens ! do you know what it will
cost?"

f< Deuce a bit ; I neither know nor care.
The f boy ' pays for all," so saying, he
bundles me into a carriage almost atop of the
boy."

A lovely day, but a tiresome, tedious
journey, though we only stop three or four
times on the road. The Duke and his
father-in law smoke, and chatter incessantly ;
for once, I can't even smoke. By-and-bye
they get lunch ready, and press me to join
them, but in vain. I nibble a biscuit, sip a
glass of claret, and subside into silence.
They give me up as a bad job, and return to
their infernal cackle. Gabble, gabble ! how
they do gabble ! The Cylinders — Ascot —

the Derby — the Boat Race — Faust — the
Pictures — Home Rule — the Land — Split in
the Liberal Party — the last Murder — the
the latest Divorce — Egypt — the Sick Man
Bulgaria — the Everlasting Eastern Question
— and Heaven knows what else.

Penzance at last ! They jump out first.

As I reach the platform I encounter Milly,
who gushes at me, and then creeps up to
Frogmore, coyly taking his arm, and asserting
a kind of proprietary right in him, which he
doesn't appear to dislike.

As they move away, turning round to get
my rugs, I am confronted face to face by
Mrs. Le Blanc and — Clara !

I lift my hat. They each drop me a stately
bow in return, but vouchsafe no further
recognition.

Clerehead comes bustling up, and says, in
his jolliest manner —

11 Now, good people — carriages waiting —
not a moment to lose, if we are to reach
Trepolyia before dark." Then, offering his
arm to Mrs. Le Blanc, " Allow me, madam !
Bob, you'll see after Miss Trevor."

We are alone. She moves towards the
carriage. I walk beside her. She doesn't
utter one word ; no more do I.

Decidedly I am glad that I leave England
on Friday !

In two minutes, we are stowed away, the
men in one carriage, the ladies in the other.

At length we stop before the churchyard
of a little Cornish village, lying almost at the
edge of the sea.

A tall, stalwart man, clad in black, with
hair and beard of iron grey, and a great
grizzled giant, who, unmistakably, has been
a soldier in his time, await us at the gate.
They are the Vicar and the sexton. We
alight and bow to them.

I (for, alas ! I have been here before !)
shake hands with the Vicar. Clerehead and
Frogmore bow, throw away their cigars,
and assist the ladies to alight.

One thing strikes me as being strange, but
not incongruous. Although a year and more
have elapsed since — since — we are all in deep
mourning.

Though we are in mourning, Nature is
keeping holiday. What a heavenly prospect
opens before us ; how venerable is the old
church, almost embowered in ivy, woodbine,
honeysuckle, Virginia creepers, and the
sweet-smelling clematis. The setting sun
bathes in ever-changing beauty the stately
trees, rare flowers, and choice shrubs which
deck the spot " where the fathers of the
village hamlet sleep."

This very day — this very hour — the flowers
seem to have leaped into life. Masses of
rich ripe rhododendrons and delicate lilacs

are relieved here and there by stately sycamores,
luxuriant yews, and cypress, the various
tints of which serve to throw the more glowing
colours into vivid contrast. The yellow
laburnum fills the perfumed air, with flakes of
golden fire, while, high above the rest, towers
a magnificent horse-chestnut, glorious with
the beauty of its ripened bloom. And, hark !
hark ! there is a whole grove of feathered
songsters during a jubilate !

Happy the dead who rest in this lovely
solitude, far away from the clamour and
squalor of the mighty city — far away from its
ignoble cares, and yet more ignoble strife.
Here, when the end comes, may I, too, sleep
my last sleep, beside the friends I love the best.

The Vicar leads the way down the central
avenue, overshadowed with huge elms. We
follow, until we reach an opening beyond.

Before us, in the very centre of God's acre,
three tombstones, which stand side by side,

cast their shadows on three graves, embedded
with living flowers of rarest beauty.

High above, from an eminence at the back
towers a Corinthian column of white marble,
beautifully flecked with black streaks. It is
shattered at the summit, as if it had been
cleft with a thunder-bolt. At its base lie two
broken laurel wreaths, also carved in marble,
encircling this inscription in letters of gold : —

In Memory

of

A CONSTANT WOMAN, AND AN HONEST MAN.

this shaft was placed hereby

their friend

James Clerehead,

WHO LOVED THEM LIVING, AND WHO MOURNS THEM DEAD."

The following epitaphs are on the tombstones.


On the one to our right : —

To the Honor'd Memory of
THE BEST OF MOTHERS,

THIS MEMORIAL IS INSCRIBED BY HER SON,

John Herbert."

On the one to the left : —

In Memoriam.

CAROLINE BLAKE,

Daughter of the Hon. and Reverend Philip Blake

(A.M., Trinity College, Dublin),

erected by her sorrowing friends,

Frederick Augustus Vere,

AND MlLLICENT HIS WlFE

(Duke and Duchess of Frogmore).

( Fear no more the heat o' the sun,
Nor the furious winter rages,
Thou thy worldly task hast done,

Home art gone, and ta'en thy wages. 1 "

On the central tombstone, which stands a
little higher than the other two, these words
are inscribed : —

"SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF

JOHN HERBERT,

gentleman.

In grateful recollection of his Benefactor,

this stone was erected by

James Green, ofLisson Grove, London."

* His life was gentle, and the elements

So mixed in him, that Nature might stand up
And say to all the world —

This was a Man ! '"

Clara has two laurel wreaths.

The one she places on His grave, the other
upon Hers. Then, sinking on her knees, she
makes the sign of the sacred symbol on her
brow.

Mrs. Le Blanc murmurs audibly, the words
of Longfellow —

Dust thou art, to dust returned,
Ne'er was spoken of the soul''

As Clerehead strolls out, he mutters half unconsciously,
" Poor Carry! Poor Jack! as
their blessed Bard says,

They should have died hereafter ! ' "

Then Milly breaks down, and Fred leads
her away. Mrs. Le Blanc raises Clara from
the ground, and they too pass silently and
sadly forth — the Vicar and the sexton follow.

I remain alone with the dead. Yes — quite
alone.

She has left me without one word, one
sign, one look. A few hours more, the sea

will be between us, and perchance I may
never look upon her face, or hear her voice
again.

I was mad to dream that she, in the
splendour of her beauty, the affluence of her
genius, could ever bestow a passing thought
on me — me, whose brow is furrowed with care
whose hair is already sprinkled with snow
me, who am old before my time — yes, old,
and worn, and broken, hopeless, friendless,
and alone ; yes, henceforth always alone !

Up to this moment I had dared to hope j
but now — !

In my despair and desolation I bow my
weary head upon the stone which marks
poor Jack's grave, then, utterly unmanned,
I break down and weep — yes, weep like a
child.

Am I awake or am I dreaming ?

A soft arm steals around my neck — a soft
cheek nestles against mine — a soft voice
murmurs in my ear —

11 No — not alone, Robert. Never alone
again so long as I live ! "

I feel her heart beating against my own,
her loving lips on mine.

Ah ! then I know it is no dream, it is
reality !

Not life, nor death, nor time, nay, not
eternity itself, can ever recall those loving
words, or steal those kisses from my lips !

The sun, red as blood, rushes down the
west, flooding sky, and sea, and shore, with
his burning beams, then vanishes into the
coming gloom.

As yet my heart is too full for words.

All is silent.

The corncrake has ceased to croak, the
frogs in yonder pool are still, even the nightingale
has ceased to sing.

At last my darling murmurs softly —

Robert — night has fallen, and see, darkness
is gathering o'er the deep."

I make answer —

Oh ! Hush ! hush ! Darkness can never
come where you are, light of my life, my own
now, and evermore ! "

Even as I spoke, as if in answer to my
words, the moon rose bright and clear, and
the stars came out in countless myriads,
glittering like a vast coronal of jewels on
the boundless brow of night.

And thus, hand to hand, and heart to heart,
we passed forth, outward and onward, and
home — never to part again, please God, so
long as life shall last !

THE END.

m
