!i

L I E) R.AR.Y

OF Thou

N I Verity

or Ill Noise



cee-ie

1889a

l-*^-^'"-

VOL. I.

Agate ha Page. By Isaac Henderson. 2 vols.
This Mortal Coil. By Grant Allen. 3 vols.
The Blackhall Ghosts. By Sarah Tatler.

3 vols.

A Strange Manuscript Found in a Copper
Cylinder. By Gilbert Gaul, i vol.

Herr Paulus. By Walter Besant. i vol.

The Man-hunter. By Dick Donovan, i vol.

The Spectre of the Camera. By Julian
Hawthorne, i vol.

Players and Playwrights I have Known.
By John Coleman. 2 vols.

London: CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY.

BY

WILKIE COLLINS

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. L

iLouDou

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[AH rights reserved]

/ •

-^ MRS. Henry POWELL Barley

Permit me to add your name to my name, in

imhlisliinri this novel. The pen which has written my

^ books cannot he more agreeably employed than in

V acknowledging rvhat I owe to the pen which has

vT skilfully and patiently helped me, by copying my

>\. manuscripts for the printer.

^ Wilkie COLLINS.

^ WiMPOLE Street,

:s: eth December, 1S88.

"V

^

first ^niol : 1S5S— lS5i\

EVENTS IS THE PR f SOX, RELATED BY THE GOVERNOR.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. THE GOVERNOR EXPLAINS - - - 3

II. THE MURDERESS ASKS QUESTIONS - - 5

III. THE CHILD APPEARS - - - - 13

IV. THE MINISTER SAYS YES - - - 18
V. MISS CHANCE ASSERTS HERSELF - - 32

VI. THE DOCTOR DOUBTS - - - - 47

VII. THE MURDERESS CONSULTS THE Authorities 56

VIII. THE MINISTER SAYS Good-bye - - - 6G

IX. THE GOVERNOR RECEIVES A VISIT - - 74

X. MISS CHANCE REAPPEARS - - - 88

^£Conl) ^ilcriob : 1S75.

THE GIRLS AND THE JOURNALS.

XI. Helena Diary . . - - 10.5

XII. EUNICE'S Diary . - . - 120

CHAPTER PAGE

XIII. EUNICE'S DIARY - - - - 133

XIV. HELENA'S DIARY - - - - 157
XV. HELENA'S DIARY - - - - 17(')

XVI. HELENA'S DIARY - - - - 19<)

XVII. HELENA'S DIARY - . . . 201

XVIII. EUNICE'S DIARY - 213

XIX. EUNICE'S Diary . - - - 224

XX. EUNICE'S DIARY - 238

XXI. HELENA'S DIARY , . . . 248

xxii. Eunice's diary - - - - - 261

xxiii. Eunice's diary - . . 269

XXIV. Eunice's diary . . - . 279

First JJerioii: 1858— XS59.

E VENTS IN THE PRISON, Rely TED B V THE
GOVERNOR.

VOL. 1.

THE Governor EXPLAINS.

At the request of a person who has claims on
me that I inst not disown, I consent to look
back through a long interval of years, and to
describe events which took place within the
walls of an English prison during the earlier
period of my appointment as Governor.

Viewing my task by the light which later
experience casts on it, I think I shall act
wisely by exercising some control over the
freedom of my pen.

I propose to pass over in silence the name
of the town in which is situated the prison
once confided to my care. I shall observe a

\ — 'l

similar discretion in alluding to individuals
some dead, some living, at the present
time.

Being' obliged to write of a woman who deservedly
suffered the extreme penalty of the
law, I think she will be sufficiently identified
if I call her The Prisoner. Of the four persons
present on the evening before her execution,
three may be distinguished one from the other
by allusion to their vocations in life. I here
introduce them as The Chaplain, The Minister,
and The Doctor. The fourth was a young
woman. She has no claim on my consideration
; and, when she is mentioned, her name
may appear. If these reserves excite suspicion,
I declare beforehand that they influence in noway
the sen.^:e of responsibility which commands
an honest man to speak the truth.

THE MURDERESS ASKS QUESTIONS.

The first of the events which I must now
relate was the conviction of The Prisoner for
the murder of her husband.

They had lived together in matrimony for
little more than two years. The husband, a
gentleman by birth and education, had mortally
offended his relations by marrying a woman
in an inferior rank of life. He was fast declining
into a state of poverty, through his
own reckless extravagance, at the time when
he met with his death at his wife's hand.

Without attempting to excuse him, he deserved,
to my mind, some tribute of regret.

It is not to be denied that he ^Yas profligate in
his habits and violent in his temper. But it
is equally true that he was affectionate in the
domestic circle, and, when moved by wisely-applied
remonstrance, sincerely penitent for
sins committed under temptation that overpowered
him. If his wife had killed him in a
fit of jealous rage — under provocation, be it
remembered, which the witnesses proved — she
might have been convicted of manslaughter,
and mio'ht have received a light sentence.
But the evidence so undeniably revealed deliberate
and merciless premeditation, that the
only defence attempted by her counsel was
madness, and the only alternative left to a
righteous jury was a verdict which condemned
the woman to death. Those mischievous
members of the community, whose topsy-turvy
sympathies feel for the living criminal
and forget the dead victim, attempted to save
her by means of high-flown petitions and contemptible

correspondence in the newspapers.
Hut the Judge held firm ; and the Home
secretary hell hrm. They were entirely right ;
and the public were scandalously wrong.

Our Chaplain endeavoured to offer the consolations
of religion to the condemned wretch.
She refused to accept his ministrations in
language which filled him with o-rief and
Horror.

On the evening before the execution, the
reverend gentleman laid on my table his own
written report of a conversation which had
passed between the Prisoner and himself.

I see some hope, sir,' he said, 'of inclining
the heart of this woman to religious belief,
before it is too late. Will you read my report,
and say if you agree with me V

1 read it, of course. It was called ' A
Memorandum,' and was thus written :

At his last interview with the Prisoner, the
Chaplain asked her if she had ever entered a

place of public worship. She replied that she
had occasionally attended the services at a
Congregational Church in this town ; attracted
by the reputation of the Minister as a preacher.
He entirely failed to make a Christian of
me," she said ; '' but I was struck by his
eloquence. Besides, he interested me personally
— he was a fine man."

In the dreadful situation in which the
woman was placed, such language as this
shocked the Chaplain ; he appealed in vain to
the Prisoner's sense of propriety. " You don't
understand women," she answered. *' The
greatest saint of my sex that ever lived likes
to look at a preacher as well as to hear him.
If he is an agreeable man, he has all the
greater effect on her. This preacher's voice
told me he was kind-hearted ; and I had only
to look at his beautiful eyes to see that he was
trustworthy and true."

It was useless to repeat a protest which

had already failed, lieekle.-ssly and Hippaiitly
as she had described it, an impression had been
produced on her. It occurred to the Chaplain
that he might at least make the attempt to
turn this result to her own religious advantage.
He asked whether she would receive the
Minister, if the reverend gentleman came to
the prison. " That will depend," she said,
'eon whether you answer some questions which
I want to put to you first." The Chaplain
consented ; provided always that he could
reply with propriety to what she asked of
him. Her first question only related to himself.


She said : " The women who watch me tell
me that you are a widower, and have a family
of children. Is that true V

The Chaplain answered that it was quite
true.

She alluded next to a report, current in
the town, that the Minister had resign-ned the

pastorate. Being personally acquainted with
him, the Chaplain \Yas able to inform her that
his resignation had not yet been accepted. On
hearing this, she seemed to gather confidence.
Her next inquiries succeeded each other
rapidly, as follows :

" Is my handsome preacher married ?"
'' Yes."

" Has he got any children T
" He has never had any children."
" How long has he been married T
" As well as I know, about seven or eight
years."

" What sort of woman is his wife T
" A lady universally respected."
" I don't care whether she is respected or
not. Is she kind ?"
" Certainly !"
" Is her husband well off?"
" He has a sufficient income."
After that reply, the Prisoner's curiosity

appeared to be satisfied. She said, " Bring
your friend the preacher to me, if you like " —
and there it ended.

'What her object could have been in putting
these questions, it seems to be impossible to
guess. Having accurately reported all that
took place, the Chaplain declares, with heartfelt
reg-ret, that he can exert no religious
influence over this obdurate woman. He
leaves it to the Governor to decide whether
the Minister of the Congregational Church
may not succeed, where the Chaplain of the
Gaol has failed. Herein is the one last hope
of saving; the soul of the Prisoner, now under
sentence of death.'

In those serious words the memorandum
ended.

Although not personally acquainted with
the Minister, I had heard of him, on all sides,
as an excellent man. In the emergency that
confronted us he lead, as it seemed to me, his

own sacred right to enter the prison ; assuming
that he was willing to accept, what I
myself felt to be, a very serious responsibility'.
The first necessity was to discover whether we
might hope to obtain his services. With my
full approval the Chaplain left me, to state
the circumstances to his reverend colleague.

THE CHILD APPEARS.

DcRiXG my friend's absence, my attention was
claimed by a sad incident — not unforeseen.

It is, I suppose, generally known that near
relatives are admitted to take their leave of
criminals condemned to death. In the case of
the Prisoner now waiting for execution, no
person applied to the authorities for permission
to see her. I myself inquired if she had any
relations living;, and if she would like to see
them. She answered : ' Xone that I care to
see, or that care to see me — except the nearest
relation of all.'

In those last words the miserable creature

alluded to her only child, a little girl (an
infant, I should say), who had passed her
first year's birthday by a few months. The
farewell interview was to take place on the
mother s last evening on earth ; and the child
was now brought into my rooms, in charge
of her nurse.

I had seldom seen a brighter or prettier
little girl. She was just able to walk alone,
and to enjoy the first delight of moving from
one place to another. Quite of her own accord
she came to me, attracted I dare say by the
glitter of my watch-chain. Helping her to
climb on my knee, I showed the wonders of
the watch, and held it to her ear. At that
past time, death had taken my good wife from
me ; my two boys were away at Harrow
School ; my domestic life was the life of a
lonely man. Whether I was reminded of the
bygone days when my sons were infants on
my knee, listening to the ticking of my watch

or whether the friendless position of the })00i'
little creature, who had lost one parent and
was soon to lose the other by a violent death,
moved me in depths of pity not easily reached
in my later experience — I am not able to say.
This only T know : my heart ached for the
child while she was laughing and listening ;
and something' fell from me on the watch
which I don't deny might have been a tear. A
few of the toys, mostly broken now, which my
two children used to play with are still in my
possession; kept, like my poor wife's favourite
jewels, for old remembrance' sake. These I
took from their repository when the attraction
of my watch showed signs of failing. The
child pounced on them with her chubby hands,
and screamed with pleasure. And the hangman
was waiting for her mother — and, more
horrid still, the mother deserved it !

My duty required me to let the Prisoner
know that her little daughter had arrived.

Did that heart of iron melt at last ? It might
have been so, or it might not ; the message
sent back kept her secret. All that it said tome
was : ' Let the child wait till I send for
her.'

The Minister had consented to help us. On
his arrival at the prison, I received him privately
in my study.

I had only to look at his face — pitiably pale
and agitated — to see that he was a sensitive
man, not always able to control his nerves on
occasions which tried his moral courage. A
kind, I might almost say a noble face, and a
voice unaffectedly persuasive, at once prepossessed
me in his favour. The few words
of welcome that I spoke were intended to
compose him. They failed to produce the
impression on which I had counted.

• My experience,' he said, ' has included
many melancholy duties, and has tried my
composure in many terrible scenes ; but I

have never yet found myself in the presence
of an unrepentant criminal, sentenced to death
and that criminal a woman and a mother. I
own, sir, that I am shaken by the prospect
before me.'

I suggested that he should wait awhile, in
the hope that time and quiet might help him.
He thanked me, and refused.

If I have any knowledge of myself,' he
said, ' terrors of anticipation lose their hold
when I am face to face with a serious call
on me. The longer I remain here, the less
worthy I shall appear of the trust that has
l)een placed in me — the trust which, please
God, I mean to deserve.'

My own observation of human nature told
me that this was wisely said. I led the way at
once to the cell.

VOL. I.

THE MINISTER SAYS YES.

The Prisoner was seated on her bed, quietly
talking with the woman appointed to watch
her. When she rose to receive us, I saw the
Minister start. The face that confronted him
would, in my opinion, have taken any man by
surprise, if he had first happened to see it
within the walls of a prison.

Visitors to the picture-galleries of Italy,
growing weary of Holy Families in endless
succession, observe that the idea of the
!madonna, among the rank and file of Italian
Painters, is limited to one changeless and
familiar type. I can hardly hope to be

believed when I say that the personal appearance
of the murderess recalled that type. Slice
presented the delicate light hair, the (quiet
eyes, the finely-shaped lower features, and the
correctly oval form of face, repeated in hundreds
on hundreds of the conventional works
of Art to which I have ventured to allude.
To those who doubt me, I can only declare
that what I have here written is undisguised
and absolute truth. Let me add that daily
observation of all classes of criminals, extending
over many years, has considerably
diminished my faith in physiognomy as a
safe guide to the discovery of character. Nervous
trepidation looks like guilt. Guilt, firmly
sustained by insensibility, looks like innocence.
One of the vilest wretches ever placed under
my charge won the sympathies (while he was
waiting for his trial) of every person who saw
him, including even the persons employed in
the prison. Only the other day, ladies and

gentlemen coming to visit me passed a body
of men at work on the road. Judges of
physiognomy among them were horrified at
the criminal atrocity betrayed in every face
that they noticed. They condoled with me on
the near neighbourhood of so many convicts to
my official place of residence. I looked out of
the window, and saw a group of honest
labourers (whose only crime was poverty)
employed by the parish !

Having instructed the female warder to
leave the room — but to take care that she
waited within call — I looked again at the
Minister.

Confronted by the serious responsibility that
he had undertaken, he justified what he had
said to me. Still pale, still distressed, he was
now nevertheless master of himself. I turned
to the door to leave him alone with the Prisoner.
She called me back.

'Before this gentleman tries to convert me

she said, ^ I want you to wait here and be a
witness.'

Finding that we were both willing to comply
with this request, she addressed herself directly
to the Minister. ' Suppose I promise to listen
to your exhortations,' she began, ' what do you
promise to do for me in return V

The voice in which she spoke to him was
steady and clear ; a marked contrast to the
tremulous earnestness with which he answered
her.

1 promise to urge you to repentance and
the confession of your crime. I promise to
implore the divine blessing on me in the effort
to save your poor guilty soul.'

She looked at him, and listened to him, as
if he was speaking to her in an unknown
tongue, and went on with what she had to say
as quietly as ever.

When I am hanged tomorrow, suppose I
die without confessing, without repenting — are

YOU one of those who believe I shall be
doomed to eternal punishment in another

life r

I believe in the mercy of God.'

Answer my question, if you please. Is an
impenitent sinner eternally punished ? Do you
believe that V

sly Bible leaves me no other alternative.'

She paused for awhile, evidently considering
with special attention what she was about to
say next.

As a religious man,' she ' resumed, ' would
you be willing to make some sacrifice, rather
than let a fellow-creature go — after a disgraceful
death — to everlasting torment ?'

I know of no sacrifice in my power,' he
said fervently, ' to which 1 would not rather
submit, than let you die in the present dreadful
state of your mind.'

The Prisoner turned to me. * Is the person
who watches me waiting outside ?'

'Yes.'

Will you be so kind as to call her in \ I
have a message for her.'

It was plain that she had been leading
the way to the delivery of that message,
whatever it might be, in all that she had
said lip to the present time. So far my
poor powers of penetration helped me, and no
farther.

The warder appeared, and received her
message. 'Tell the woman who has come
here with my little girl that I want to see the
child.'

Taken completely by surprise, I signed to
the attendant to wait for further instructions.
In a moment more, I had sufficiently recovered
myself to see the impropriety of permitting
any obstacle to interpose between the
Minister and his errand of mercy. I gently
reminded the Prisoner that she would have a
later opportunity of seeing her child. ' Your

first duty,' I told her, ' is to hear and to take
to heart what the clergyman has to say to
you.'

For the second time I attempted to leave the
cell. For the second time this impenetrable
woman called me back.

Take the parson away with you she said.
I refuse to listen to him.'

The patient Minister yielded, and appealed
to me to follow his example. I reluctantly
sanctioned the delivery of the message.

After a brief interval the child was brought
to us, tired and sleepy. For a while the nurse
roused her by setting her on her feet. She
happened to notice the Minister first. Her
bright eyes rested on him, gravely wondering.
He kissed her, and, after a momentary hesitation,
crave her to her mother. The horror of
the situation overpowered him : he turned his
face away from us. I understood what he felt ;
he almost overthrew my own self-command.

The Prisoner spoke to the nurse in no friendly
tone : ' You can o-q.'

The nurse turned to me, ostentatiously
io-norino; the words that had been addressed to
her. ' Am I to go, sir, or to stay '?' I suggested
that she should return to the waiting
She returned at once, in silence. The
Prisoner looked after her as she went out, with
such an expression of hatred in her eyes that
the Minister noticed it.

What has that person done to offend you ?'
he asked.

She is the last person in the whole world
whom 1 should have chosen to take care of my
child, if the power of choosing had been mine.
But I have been in prison, without a living
creature to represent me or to take my part. No
more of that ; my troubles will be over in a few
hours more. I want you to look at my little
girl, whose troubles are all to come. Do you
call her pretty ? Do you fed interested in her X

The sorrow and pity in his face answered
for him.

Quietly sleeping, the poor baby rested on
her mother's bosom. Was the heart of the
murderess softened by the divine influence of
maternal love ? The hands that held the child
trembled a little. For the first time, it
seemed to cost her an effort to compose herself,
before she could speak to the Minister
again.

When I die to-morrow she said, ' I leave
my child helpless and friendless — disgraced by
her mother's shameful death. The workhouse
may take her — or a charitable asylum may take
her.' She paused ; a first tinge of colour rose
on her pale face ; she broke into an outburst
of rage. ' Think of my daughter being brought
up by charity ! She may suffer poverty, she
may be treated with contempt, she may be
employed by brutal people in menial work. I
can't endure it ; it maddens me. If she is not

saved from that wretched fate, I shall die despairing,
I shall die cursing '

The Minister sternly stopped her before she
could say the next word. To my astonishment
she appeared to be humbled, to be even
ashamed : she asked his pardon : ' Forgive
me ; I won't forget myself again. They tell
me you have no children of your own. Is
that a sorrow to you and your wife ?'

Her altered tone touched him. He answered
sadly and kindly : ' It is the one sorrow of our
lives.'

The purpose which she had been keeping in
view from the moment when the Minister
entered her cell was no mystery now. Ought
I to have interfered I Let me confess a weakness,
unworthy perhaps of my office. I was
so sorry for the child — I hesitated.

My silence encouraged the mother. She
advanced to the Minister with the sleeping
infant in her arms.

I dare say you have sometimes thought of
adopting a child V she said. ' Perhaps you can
guess no\Y what I had in my mind, when I
asked if you would consent to a sacrifice ?
Will you take this wretched innocent little
creature home with you ? She lost her self-possession
once more. ' A motherless creature
to-morrow she burst out. 'Think of that.'

God knows how I still shrunk from it ! But
there was no alternative now ; I was bound to
remember my duty to the excellent man, whose
critical position at that moment was, in some
degree at least, due to my hesitation in asserting
my authority. Could I allow the Prisoner
to presume on his compassionate nature, and
to hurry him into a decision which, in his
calmer moments, he might find reason to
regret ? I spoke to 1dm. Does the man live
who — having to say what I had to say — could
have spoken to the doomed mother ?

^I am sorry I have allowed this to go on,'

I said. ' In justice to yourself, sir, don't
answer !'

She turned on me with a look of fury.

He shall answer !' she cried.

I saw, or thought I saw, signs of yielding in
his face. ' Take time,' I persisted — ' take time
to consider before you decide.'

She stepped up to me.

'Take time 1' she repeated. 'Are you inhuman
enough to talk of time, in my presence
X

She laid the sleeping child on her bed, and
fell on her knees before the minister : ' I
promise to hear your exhortations — T promise
to do all a woman can to believe and repent.
Oh, I know myself ! ]\Iy heart, once hardened,
is a heart that no human creature can touch.
The one way to my better nature — if I have
a better nature — is through that poor babe.
Save her from the workhouse ! Don't let them
make a pauper of her !' She sank prostrate at

his feet, and beat lier hands in frenzy on the
floor. ' You want to save my guilty soul she
reminded him furiously. ' There's but one
waA' of doing; it. Save my child !'

He raised her. Her fierce tearless eyes
(questioned his face in a mute expectation
dreadful to see. Suddenly, a foretaste of
death — the death that was so near now ! —
struck her with a shivering fit : her head
dropped on the Minister's shoulder. Other
men might have shrunk from the contact of it.
That true Christian let it rest.

Under the maddening sting of suspense, her
sinking energies rallied for an instant. In a
whisper, she was just able to put the supreme
question to him.

Yes % or Xo 1'

He answered : ' Yes.'

A faint breath of relief, just audible in the
silence, told me that she had heard him. It

was her last effort. He laid her, insensible,
on the bed, by the side of her sleeping child.
Look at them,' was all he said to me ; ' how
could J refuse ?'

MISS Chance ASSERTS HERSELF,

The services of our medical officer were repaired,
in order to hasten the recovery of the
Prisoner's senses.

When the Doctor and I left the cell together,
she was composed, and ready (in the performance
of her promise) to listen to the exhortations
of the Minister. The sleeping child
was left undisturbed, by the mother's desire.
If the Minister felt tempted to regret what he
had done, there was the artless influence which
would check him 1 As we stepped into the
corridor, I gave the female warder her instructions
to remain on the watch, and to return to
her post when she saw the sinister come out.

Possessed of ability and experience within
the limits of his profession, he was in other
respects a man with a crotchety mind ; bold to
the verge of recklessness in the expression of
his opinion ; and possessed of a command of
language that carried everything before it.
Let me add that he was just and merciful in
his intercourse with others, and I shall have
summed him up fairly enough. When I joined
him, he seemed to be absorbed in reflection.

Thinking; of the Prisoner ?' I said.

Thinking' of what is croincr on, at this
moment, in the condemned cell he answered,
and wondering if any good will come of it.'

I was not without hope of a good result,
and I said so.

The Doctor disagreed with me. ' I don't
believe in that woman's penitence,' he remarked
; ' and I look upon the parson as a

VOL. I. 3

poor weak creature. What is to become of
the child ?'

There was no reason for concealing from
one of my colleagues the benevolent decision,
on the part of the good Minister, of which I
had been a witness. The Doctor listened tome
with the first appearance of downright
astonishment that I had ever observed in his
face. "When I had done, he made an extraordinary
reply :

^ Governor, I retract what I said of the
parson just now. He is one of the boldest
men that ever stepped into a pulpit.'

Was the Doctor in earnest ? Strongly in
earnest ; there could be no doubt of it.
Before I could ask him what he meant, he
was called away to a patient on the other side
of the prison. When we parted at the door
of my room, I made it a request that my
medical friend would return to me and explain
what he had just said.

Considering that you are the governor of
a prison he replied, ' you are a singularly
rash man. If I come back, how do you know
I shall not bore you ?'

My rashness runs the risk of that,' I
rejoined.

Tell me something, before I allow you to
run your risk,' he said. ' Are you one of
those people who think that the tempers
of children are formed by the accidental
influences which happen to be about
them ? Or do you agree with me that the
tempers of children are inherited from their
parents V

The Doctor (as I concluded) was still
strongly impressed by the Minister's resolution
to adopt a child, whose wicked mother
had committed the most atrocious of all
crimes. Was some serious foreboding, suggested
by that circumstance, in secret possession
of his mind ? sly curiosity to hear

him was now increased tenfold. I replied
without hesitation :

I agree with you.'

He looked at me with his sense of humour
twinkling in his eyes. ' Do you know I
rather expected that answer V he said, slily.
All right. I'll come back.'

Left by myself, I took up the day's newspaper.


My attention wandered ; my thoughts were
in the cell with the Minister and the Prisoner.
How would it end ? Sometimes, I was inclined
to doubt with the Doctor. Sometimes,
I took refuge in my own more hopeful view.
These idle reflections were agreeably interrupted
by the appearance of my friend, the
Chaplain.

You are always welcome,' I said ; 'and
doubly welcome just now. I am feeling a
little worried and anxious.'

And you are naturally,' the Chaplain

added, ' not at all disposed to receive a
stranger ?'

Is the stranger a friend of yours V \
asked.

Oh no ! Having occasion, just now, to
go into the waiting-room, I found a young
woman there, who asked me if she could see
you. She thinks you have forgotten her, and
she is tired of waiting. I merely undertook, of
course, to mention what she had said to me.'

The nurse having been in this way recalled
to my memory, I felt some little interest in
seeing her, after what had passed in the cell.
In plainer words, I was desirous of judging
for myself whether she deserved the hostile
feeling which the Prisoner had shown towards
her. I thanked the Chaplain before he left
me, and gave the servant the necessary instructions.
When she entered the room, I
looked at the woman attentively for the first
time.

Youth and a fine complexion, a well-made
figure and a natural grace of movement — these
were her personal attractions, so far as I could
see. Her defects were, to my mind, equally
noticeable. Under a heavy forehead, her
piercing eyes looked out at persons and things
with an expression which was not to my
taste. Her large mouth — another defect, in
my opinion — would have been recommended
tu mercy, in the estimation of many men, by
her magnificent teeth ; white, well shaped,
cruelly regular. Believers in physiognomy
might perhaps have seen the betrayal of an
obstinate nature in the lengthy firmness of
her chin. While I am trying to describe her,
let me not for-et her dress. A woman's dress
is the mirror in which we may see the reflection
of a woman's nature. Bearings in

o

mind the melancholy and impressive circumstances
under which she had brought the
child to the prison, the gaiety of colour in

her gown ;iii her bonnet implied either a
total want of feeling; or a total want of tact.
As to her position in life, let me confess that
I felt, after a closer examination, at a loss to
determine it. She was certainly not a lady.
The Prisoner had spoken of her as if she was
a domestic servant dio had forfeited her right
to consideration and respect. And she had
entered the prison, as a nurse might have
entered it, in charge of a child. I did wdiat
we all do when we are not clever enough to
find the answer to a riddle — I gave it up.

What can I do for you ?' I asked.

Perhaps you can tell me,' she answered,
how much longer I am to be kept waiting in
this prison.'

The decision,' I reminded her, ' doesn't depend
on me.'

Then who does it depend on ?'

The Minister had undoubtedly acquired the
sole right of deciding;. It was for him to say

whether this woman should, or should not,
remain in attendance on the child whom he
had adopted. In the meanwhile, the feeling
of distrust which was gaining on my mind
warned me to remember the value of reserve
in holding intercourse with a stranger.

She seemed to be irritated by my silence.
^ If the decision doesn't rest with you,' she
asked, ' why did you tell me to stay in the
waiting-room V

You brought the little girl into the
prison,' I said ; ' was it not natural to suppose
that your mistress might want you ?'

Stop, sir !'

I had evidently given offence ; I stopped
directly.

No person on the face of the earth,' she
declared loftily, ' has ever had the right to
call herself my mistress. Of my own freewill,
sir, I took charge of the child.'

Because you are fond of her ?' I suggested.

1 hate her.'

It was unwise on my part — I protested.
Hate a baby, little more than a year old 1' 1
said.

Ir baby 1'

She said it with the air of a woman who
had produced an unanswerable reason. ' I am
accountable to nobody,' she went on. ' If I
consented to trouble myself with the child, it
was in remembrance of my friendship — notice,
if you please, that I say friendship — with the
unhappy father.'

Putting together what I had just heard,
and what I had seen in the cell, I drew the
right conclusion at last. The woman, whose
position in life had been thus far an impenetrable
mystery to me, now stood revealed
as one, among other objects of the Prisoner's
jealousy, during her disastrous married life.
A serious doubt occurred to me as to the
authority under which the husband's mistress

might be acting, after the husband's death. I
instantly put it to the test.

Do I understand you to assert any claim
to the child ?' I asked.

Claim ?' she repeated. ' I know no more
of the child than you do. I heard for the
first time that such a creature was in existence,
when her murdered father sent for me in his
dying moments. At his entreaty I promised
to take care of her, while her vile mother was
out of the house and in the hands of the law.
My promise has been performed. If I am
expected (having brought her to the prison) to
take her away again, understand this : I am
under no obligation (even if I could afford
it) to burden myself with that child : I
shall hand her over to the workhouse
authorities.'

I forgot myself once more — I lost my
temper.

Leave the room !' I said. ' Your unworthy

hands will not touch the poor baby again.
She is provided for.'

I don't believe you !' the wretch burst out.
Who has taken the child ?'

A quiet voice answered : * / have taken
her.'

We both looked round and saw the Minister
standing in the open doorway, with the child
in his arms. The ordeal that he had gone
through in the condemned cell was visible in

o

his face ; he looked miserably haggard and
broken. I was eager to know if his merciful
interest in the Prisoner had purified her guilty
soul — but at the same time I was afraid, after
what he had Jut too plainly suffered, to ask
him to enter into details.

Only one word,' I said. ^ Are your anxieties
at rest V

God's mercy has helped me,' he answered.
I have not spoken in vain. She believes ;
she repents ; she has confessed the crime.'

After landing; the written and signed confession
to me, he approached the venomous
creature, still lingering in the room to hear
what passed between us. Before I could stop
him, lie spoke to her, under a natural impression
that he was addressing the Prisoner's
servant.

I am afraid you will be disappointed,' he
said, ' when I tell you that your services will
no longer be required. I have reasons for
placing the child under the care of a nurse of
my own choosing.'

She listened with an evil smile.

I know who furnished you with your
reasons,' she answered. * Apologies are quite
needless, so far as I am concerned. If you
had proposed to me to look after the new
member of your family there, I should have
felt it my duty to myself to have refused. I
am not a nurse — I am an independent single
lady. I see by your dress that you are a

clergyman ; allow me to present myself as a
mark of respect to your cloth. T am Miss
Elizabeth Chance. May I ask the favour of

your name V

Too weary and too preoccupied to notice the
insolence of her manner, the Minister mentioned
his name. • I am anxious,' he said, ' to
know if the child has been baptized. Perhaps
you can enlighten me V

Still insolent, bliss Elizabeth Chance shook
her head carelessly. ' I never heard — and, to
tell you the truth, I never cared to hear —
whether she was christened or not. Call herby
what name you like, I can tell you this —
you will find your adopted daughter a heavy
handful.'

The Minister turned to me. ' What does
she mean V

1 will try to tell you ]\Iiss Chance interposed.
* Being a clergyman, you know who
Deborah was ? Very well. I am Deborah

now ; and / prophesy.' She pointed to the
child. ' Remember what I say, reverend sir I
You will find the tigress-cub take after its
mother.'

With those parting words, she favoured us
with a low curtsey, and left the room.

THE DOCTOR DOUBTS.

The Minister looked at me in an absent
manner ; his attention seemed to have been
wandering'. ' AVhat was it Miss Chance said?'
he asked.

Before I could speak, a friend's voice at the
door interrupted us. The Doctor, returning
to me as he had promised, answered the
Minister's question in these words :

I must have passed the person you mention,
sir, as I was coming in here ; and I heard
her say : '' You will lind the tigress-cub take
after her mother." If she had known huw to
put her meaning into good English, ]mischance
— that is the name you mentioned, I

think — moonlit have told you that the vices of
the parents are inherited by the children.
And the one particular parent she had in her
mind,' the Doctor continued, gently patting
the child's cheek, 'was no doubt the mother of
this unfortunate little creature — who may, or
may not. live to show you that she comes of a
bad stock and inherits a wicked nature.'

I was on the point of protesting against my
friend's interpretation, when the ]minister
stopped me.

Let me thank you, sir. for your explanation,'
he said to the Doctor. ' As soon as my
mind is free, I will reflect on what you have
said. Forgive me, Mr. Governor,' he went on,
if I leave you, now that I have placed the
Prisoner's confession in your hands. It has
been an effort to me to sav the little T have
said, since I first entered this room. T can
think of nothing but that unhappy criminal,
and the death that she must die tomorrow.'

^ Does she wish you to be present ?' I asked.

She posit ivel}- forbids it. " After what
you have done for me," she said, " the least I
can do in return is to prevent your being needlessly
distressed." She took leave of me ; she
kissed the little a'irl for the last time — oh.
don't ask me to tell you about it! I shall
break down if I try. Come, my darling I' He
kissed the child tenderly, and took her away
with him.

'That man is a strange compound of strength
and weakness,' the Doctor remarked. * Did
you notice his face, just now ? Nine men out
of ten, suffering as he suffered, would have
failed to control themselves. Such resolution
as his may conquer the difficulties that are in
store for him. yet.'

It was a trial of my temper to hear my
clever colleague justifying, in this wa}-, the
ignorant prediction of an insolent woman.

• There are exceptions to all rules,' I in-vol.

I. 4 ,

\

sister. ' And why are the virtues of the
parents not just as likely to descend to the
children as the vices ? There was a fund of
good, I can tell you, in that poor baby's father
though I don't deny that he was a profligate
man. And even the horrible mother — as you
heard just now — has virtue enough left in her
to feel grateful to the man who has taken care
of her child. These are facts j you can't
dispute them.'

The Doctor took out his pipe. ' Do you
mind my smoking?' he asked. ' Tobacco helps
me to arrange my ideas.'

I gave him the means of arranging his ideas;
that is to sav, I <2'ave him the match-box. He
blew some preliminary clouds of smoke — and
then he answered me :

For twenty years past, my friend, I have
been studying the question of hereditary transmission
of qualities ; and I have found vices
and diseases descending more frequently to

children than virtues and health. I don't stop
to ask why : there is no end to that sort of
curiosity. What I have observed is what I
tell you; no more and no less. You will say
this is a horribly discouraging result of experience,
for it tends to show that children
come into the world' at a disadvantage on
the day of their birth. Of course they do.
Children are born deformed ; children are born
deaf, dumb, or blind ; children are born with
the seeds in them of deadly diseases. Who can
account for the cruelties of creation ? Why are
we endowed with life — only to end in death ?
And does it ever strike you. when you are
cutting your mutton at dinner, and your cat
is catching its mouse, and your spider is
suffocating' its flv, that we are all, bier and
little together. born to one certain inheritance
the privilege of eating each other ?'

Very sad,' I admitted. ' But it will all beset
ris^ht in another worhl.'

4—2

Are you sure of that ?' the Doctor asked.

Quite sure, thank God ! And it would be
better for you if you felt about it as I do.*

AVe won't dispute, my dear Governor. I
don't scoff at comforting hopes; I don't deny
the existence of occasional compensations.
But I do see, nevertheless, that Evil has o^ot
the upper hand among us, on this curious
little planet. Judging by my observation and
experience, that ill-fated baby's chance of
inheriting the virtues of her parents is not to
be compared with her chances of inheriting
their vices ; especially if she happens to take
after her mother. There, the virtue is not conspicuous,
and the vice is one enormous fact.
When I think of the growth of that poisonous
hereditary taint, which may come with time —
when I think of passions let loose and temptations
lying in ambush — I see the smooth
surface of the Minister's domestic life with
dangers lurking under it which make me shake

in my shoes. God ! Avhat a life 1 should lead,
if 1 happened to be in his place, some years
hence. Suppose I said or did something (in
the just exercise of my parental authority)
which offended my adopted daughter. What
figure would rise from the dead in my
memory, when the girl bounced out of the
room in a rage ? The image of her mother
would be the image I should see. I should
remember what her mother did when lie was
provoked ; I should lock my bedroom-door, in
my own house, at night. I should come down
to breakfast with suspicions of my cup of tea,
if I discovered that my adopted daughter had
poured it out. Oh, yes ; it's quite true that I
might be doing the girl a cruel injustice all the
time ; but how am I to be sure of that ? I am
only sure that her mother was hanged for one
of the most merciless murders committed in
our time. Pass the match-box. My pipe's out,
and my confession of faith has come to an end.'

It was useless to dispute with a man who
possessed his command of Language. At the
same time, there was a bright side to the poor
Minister's prospects which the Doctor had
failed to see. It was barely possible that I
might succeed in putting my positive friend in
the wrong. I tried the experiment, at any
rate.

You seem to have forgotten,' I reminded
him, ' that the child will have every advantage
that education can offer to her, and will be accustomed
from her earliest years to restraining
and purifying influences, in a clergyman's ,
household.'

IN'ow that he was enjoying the fumes of
tobacco, the Doctor was as placid and sweet-tempered
as a man could be.

Quite true,' he said.

1 )o you doubt the influence of religion ?' I
asked sternly.

He answered sweetly : ^ Xot at all.'

Or the influence of kindness ?'
Oh dear, no !'
Or the force of example T
1 woukhi't deny it for the work'
I had not expected this extraordinary
(society. The Doctor had got the upper
hand of me ao-ain — a state of things that I
might have found it hard to endure, but for a
call of duty which put an end to our sitting.
One of the female warders appeared with a
message from the condemned cell. The
Prisoner wished to see the Governor and the
medical Officer.

Is she ill ?' the Doctor inquired.

Xo, sir."

Hysterical ? or agitated, perhaps ?'
As easy and composed, sir, as a person can
be.'

We set forth together for the condemned

cell.

THE MURDERESS CONSULTS THE AUTHORITIES.

There was a considerate side to my friend's
character, which showed itself when the
warder had left ns.

He was especially anxious to be careful of
what he said to a woman in the Prisoner's
terrible situation ; especially in the event of
her having been really subjected to the influence
of religious belief. On the Minister's
own authority, I declared that there was every
reason to adopt this conclusion ; and in support
of what I had said I showed him the
confession. It only contained a few lines,
acknowledging that she had committed the

murder, and that she deserved her sentence.
From the punning of the crime to the commission
of the crime, I was in my right senses
throughout. I knew what I was doing.'
With that remarkable disavowal of the defence
set up by her advocate, the confession ended.

My colleague read the paper, and handed it
back to me without making any remark. 1
asked if he suspected the Prisoner of feigning
conversion to please the Minister.

She shall not discover it,' he answered
gravely, ' if I do.'

It woidd not be true to say that the Doctor's
obstinacy had shaken my belief in the good
result of the Minister's interference. I may,
however, acknowledge that I felt some misgivings,
which were not dispelled when I
found myself in the presence of the Prisoner.

I had expected to see her employed in reaching:
the 13ible. The f>'ood book was closed,
and was not even placed within her reach.

The occupation to wbicli lie was devoting
herself astonished and repelled me.

Some carelessness on the part of the attendant
had left on the table the writing materials
that had been needed for her confession. She
was using' them now — when death on the
scaffold was literally within a few hours of her
to sketch a portrait of the female warder,
who was on the watch I The Doctor and I
looked at each other ; and now the sincerity
of her repentance was something that I began
to question, too.

She laid down the pen, and proceeded
quietly to explain herself

Even the little time that is left to me
proves to be a weary time to get through,' she
said. * I am making a last use of the talent
for drawing; and catching a likeness, which has
been one of my gifts slice 1 was a girl. You
look as if you didn't approve of such employment
as this for a woman who is going to ire

hanged. Well, sir, I have no doubt you are
right.' She paused, and tore up the ]portrait.
If I have misbehaved myself,' she resumed,
I make amends. To tint you in an indulgent
frame of mind is of importance to me just
now. I have a favour to ask of you. ]pray
the warder leave the cell for a few minutes ?'

Giving the woman permission to withdraw
for awhile, I waited with some anxiety to hear
what the Prisoner wanted of me.

I have something to say to you,' she
proceeded, 'on the subject of executions. The
face of a person who is going to be hanged is
hidden, as I have been told, by a white cap
drawn over it. Is that true ?'

How another man might have felt, in my
place, I cannot, of course, say. To my mind,
such a question — on lier lips — was too shocking'
to be answered in words. I bowed.

And the body is buried,' she went on. ' in
the prison ?'

I could remain silent no longer. ' Is there
no human feeling left in you ?' I burst out.
What do these horrid questions mean ?'

Don't be angry with me, sir ; you shall
hear directly. I want to know first if I am to
be buried in the prison ?'

I replied as before, by a bow.

'Now,' she said, '1 may tell you what I
mean. In the autumn of last year 1 was
taken to see some waxwork. Portraits of
criminals where among them. There was one

portrait ' She hesitated ; her infernal

self-possession failed her at last. The colour
left her face ; she was no longer able to look
at me firmly. ' There was one portrait,' she
resumed, ' that had been taken after the execution.
The face was so hideous ; it was swollen
to such a size in its frightful deformity — oh,
sir, don't let me be seen in that state, even by
the strangers who bury me ! Use your influence
— forbid them to take the cap off my

face when I am dead — order them to bury mein
it, and I swear to you Tell meet death tomorrow
as coolly as the boldest man that ever
mounted the scaffold!' Before I could sto])
her, she seized me bv the hand, and wruno-
it with a furious ]sower that left the mark
of her grasp on me, in a bruise, for days
afterwards. ' AVill you do it ? she cried.
You're an honourable man ; you will kee])
your word. Give me your promise!'

I have her vnx promise.

The relief to her tortured spirit expressed
itself horribly in a burst of frantic laughter.
r can't help it,' she gasped ; ' I'm so
happy.'

My enemies said of me, when I got my
appointment, that I was too excitable a man
to be governor of a prison. Perhaps they
were not altogether wrong. Anyhow, the
(juice-witted Doctor saw some change in me,
which I was not aware of myself He took

my arm, and led me out of the cell. ' Leave
her to me,' he whispered. ' The fine edge
of my nerves was worn ofi" long ago in the
hospital.'

When we met again, I asked what had
passed between the Prisoner and himself.

'I gave her time to recover,' he told me;
and, except that she looked a little paler than
usual, there was no trace left of the frenzy
that you remember. '' I ought to apologize
for troubling you," she said ; '* but it is perhaps
natural that I should think, now and then, of
what is to happen to me tomorrow morning.
As a medical man, you will be able to enlighten
me. Is death by hanging a painful
death ?" She had put it so politely that I
felt bound to answer her. ** If the neck
happens to be broken," I said, •' hanging is
a sudden death ; fright and pain (if there is
any pain) are both over in an instant. As to
the other form of death which is also possible

(I mean death by suffocation), I must own as
an honest man that I know no more about
it than you do." After considering little,
she made a sensible remark, and followed it by
an embarrassing request. '' A great deal," she
said, " must depend on the executioner. I
am not afraid of death, Doctor. ^Vhy should
I be ? My anxiety about my little girl is set
at rest ; I have nothing left to live for. Kit
I don't like pain. AVould you mind telling
the executioner to be careful ? Or would it
be better if I spoke to him myself ?" I
said I thought it would come with a better
race from herself. She understood me
directly ; and we dropped the subject. Are
you surprised at lier coolness, after your
experience of her ?'

I confessed that I was surprised.
Think a little,' the Doctor said. ' The one
sensitive place in that woman's nature is the
place occupied by her self-esteem.'

I objected to this that she had shown fondness
for her child.

My friend disposed of the objection with his
customary readiness.

^ The maternal instinct,' he said. ^ K cat is
fond of her kittens ; a cow is fond of her calf
No. sir, the one cause of that outbreak of
passion which so shocked you — a genuine outbreak,
beyond all doubt — is to be found in the
vanity of a "fine feminine creature, overpowered
by a horror of looking hideous, even after
her death. Do you know I rather like that
woman ?'

Is it possible that you are in earnest?' I
asked.

I know as well as you do,' he answered,
that this is neither a time nor a place for
jesting. The fact is, the Prisoner carries out
an idea of mine. It is my positive conviction
that the worst murders — I mean murders deliberately
planned — are committed by persons

absolutely deficient in that part of the moral
organization which feds. The ni^fht before
they are hanged, they sleep. On their last
morning, they eat a breakfast. Incapable of
realizing the horror of murder, they are incapable
of realizing the horror of death. Do
you remember the last murderer who was
hanged here — a gentleman's coachman who
killed his wife ? He had but two anxieties
Avhile he was waiting for execution. One was
to get his allowance of beer doubled, and the
other was to be hand-ed in his coachman's

o

livery. Xo ! no ! these wretches are all alike ;
they are human creatures born with the temperaments
of tigers. Take my word for it, we
need feel no anxiety about tomorrow. The
Prisoner will face the crowd round the scaffold
with composure; and the people will say, 'she
died game." '

V(JL. 1.

THE Minister SAYS Good-bye.

The Capital Punishment of the Prisoner is
in no respect connected with my purpose in
writing the present narrative. Neither do I
desire to darken these pages by describing in
detail an act of righteous retribution which
must present, by the nature of it, a scene of
horror. For these reasons I ask to be excused,
if I limit what I must needs say of the execution
within the compass of a few words — and
pass on.

The one self-possessed person among us was
the miserable woman who suffered the penalty'
of death.

Xot very discreetly, as I think, the Chaplain

asked her if lie had truly repented. She
answered : * I have confessed the crime, sir.
What more do you want ?' To my mind —
still hesitating between the view that believes
with the minister, and the view that doubts
nth the Doctor — this reply leaves a Avay open
to hope of her salvation. Her last words tome,
as she mounted the steps of the scaffold,
Avere: 'Remember your promise.' It was
easy for me to be true to my word. At that
bygone time, no difficulties were placed in
my Avay by such precautions as are now
observed in the conduct of executions within
the Avails of the prison. From the time of her
death to the time of her burial, no living creature
saw her face. She rests, veiled, in her
prison grave.

Let me nov turn to living: interests, and
to scenes removed from the thunder-clouds

of crime.

*****

On the next day I received a visit from the
Minister.

His first words entreated me not to allude
to the terrible event of the previous day. ' I
cannot escape thinking of it.' he said, ' but I
may avoid speaking of it.' This seemed to me
to be the misplaced confidence of a weak man
in the refuge of silence. By way of changing
the subject, I spoke of the child. There would
be serious difficulties to contend with (as I
ventured to suggest), if he remained in the
town, and allowed his new responsibilities to
become the subject of public talk.

His reply to this agreeably surprised me.
There were no difficulties to be feared.

The state of his wife's health had obliged
him (acting under medical advice) to try the
influence of her native air. An interval of
some months might elapse before the good
effect of the change had sufficiently declared
itself ; and a return to the peculiar climate of

the town might bring' on a relapse. There
had consequently been no alternative but to
resign his charge. Only on that day the
resignation had been accepted — with expressions
of regret sincerely reciprocated by himself.
He proposed to leave the town immediately
; and one of the objects of his visit
was to bid me good-bye.

The next place I live in.' he said, ' will he
more than a hundred miles away. At that
distance I may hope to keejD events concealed
which must be known only to ourselves. Sofar
as I can see, there are no risks of discovery
lurking in this place. My servants (only two
in number) have both been born here, and
have both told my wife that they have no wish
to go away. As to the person who introduced
herself to me by the name of Miss
Chance, she was traced to the railway-station
yesterday afternoon, and took her ticket for
London.'

I congratulated the sinister on the good
fortune which had befriended him. so far.

You will understand how carefully I have
provided against being deceived,' he continued,
when I tell you what my plans are. The
persons among whom mv future lot is cast —
and the child herself, of course — must never
suspect that the new member of my family is
other than my own daughter. This is deceit,
I admit ; but it is deceit that injures no one. I
hope you see the necessity for it, as I do.'

There could be no doubt of the necessity.

If the child wa described as adopted, there
would be curiosity a^ out the circumstances,
and inquiries relating to the parents. Prevaricating
replies lead to suspicion, and suspicion
to discovery. But for the wise course
which the [Minister had decided on taking, the
poor child's life might have been darkened by
the horror of the mother's crime, and the
infamy of the mother's death.

Having quieted my friend's needless scruples
by this perfectly sincere expression of opinion,
I ventured to ii})proacli the central figure in
his domestic circle, by means of a question
relating to his wife. How had that lady
received the unfortunate little creature, for
whose appearance on the home-scene she must
have been entirely unprepared ?

The Minister's manner showed some embarrassment
; he prefaced what he had to tell
me with praises of his wife, equally creditable
no doubt to both of them. The beauty of the
child, the pretty ways of the child, he said,
fascinated that admirable woman at first sight.
It Alas not to be denied that she had felt, and
had expressed, misgivings, on being informed
of the circumstances under which the Minister's
act of mercy had Ijcen performed. But her
mind was too well balanced to incline to this
state of feeling, when her husband had
addressed her in defence of this conduct. She

then understood that the true merit of a good
action consisted in patiently facing the sacrifices
involved. Her interest in the new
daughter being, in this way, ennobled by
a sense of Christian duty, there had been no
further difference of opinion between the
married pair.

I listened to this plausible explanation with
interest, but, at the same time, with doubts of
the lasting nature of the lady's submission to
circumstances ; suggested, perhaps, by the
constraint in the Minister's manner. It was
well for both of us when we changed the
subject. He reminded me of the discouraging
view which the Doctor had taken of the prospect
before him.

I will not attempt to decide whether your
friend is right or wrong,' he said. ' Trusting,
as I do, in the mercy of God, I look hopefully
to a future time when all that is brightest and
best in the nature of my adopted child will be

developed under iii' fostering eare. If evil
tendencies show themselves, my reliance will
be confidently placed on pious example, on
religious instruction, and, above all, on intercession
by prayer. Repeat to your friend,' he
concluded, ' what you have just heard me say.
Let him ask himself if he could confront the
uncertain future with my cheerful submission
and my steadfast hope.'

He entrusted me with that message, and
gave me his hand. So we parted.

I agreed with him, I admired him ; but my
faith seemed to want sustaining power, as
compared with his faith. On his own shoving
(as it appeared to me), there would be
two forces in a state of conflict in the child's
nature as she grew u[) — inherited evil against
inculcated good. Try as I might, I failed to
feel the Minister's comforting conviction as to
which of the two would win.

THE GOVERNOR Receives A VISIT.

A FEW days after the good man had left us,
I met with a serious accident, caused by a
false step on the stone stairs of the prison.

The long; illness which followed this misfortunes
and my removal afterwards (in the
interests of my recovery) to a milder climate
than the climate of Unhand, obliged me to
confide the duties of governor of the prison to
a representative. I was absent from my post
for rather more than a year. During this
interval no news reached me from my reverend
friend.

Having returned to the duties of my office,
I tliouirht of writing to the sinister. While

the proposed letter was still in contemplation,
I was informed that a lady wished to see me.
She sent in her card. !\[y visitor proved to
be the sinister's wife.

I observed her with no ordinary attention
when she entered the room.

Her dress was simple ; her scanty light
hair, so far as I could see it under her bonnet,
was dressed with taste. The paleness of her
lips, and the faded colour in her slice, suggested
that she was certainly not in i>'ood health.
Two peculiarities struck me in her personal
appearance. I never remembered having seen
any other person with such a singularly narrow
and slanting forehead as this lady presented ;
and I was impressed, not at all agreeably, b\'
the Hashing shifting expression in her eyes.
On the other hand, let me own that I was
powerfully attracted and interested by the
beauty of her voice. Its line variety of compass,
and its musical resonance of tone, fell

with such enchantment on the ear, that I
should have liked to put a book of poetry
into her hand, and to have heard her read it
in summer-time, accompanie 1 by the music of
a rocky stream.

The object of her visit — sd stir as she explained
it at the outset — appeared to be to
offer her congratulations on my recovery, and
to tell me that her husband had assumed the
chare of a church, in a lar^'e town not far
from her birthplace.

Even those commonplace words were made
interesting by her delicious voice. But, however
sensitive to sweet sounds a man may be,
there are limits to his capacity for deceiving
himself — especially when he happens to be
enlightened by experience of humanity within
the walls of a prison. I had, it may be
remembered, already doubted the lady's good
temper, judging from her husband's overwrought
description of her virtues. Her eyes

Our new place of residence,' she answered.,
has been made interesting by a very unexpected
event — an event (how shall I describe
it ?) which has increased our happiness, and
enlarged our family circle.'

There she stopped ; expecting me, as I
fancied, to guess what she meant. A woman,
and that woman a mother, might have fulfilled
her anticipations. A man, and that
man not listening attentively, was simply
puzzled.

Pray excuse my stupidity,' I said ; ' I
don't quite understand you.'

The lady's temper looked at me out of the
lady's shifting eyes, and hid itself again in a
moment. She set herself right in my estimation
])y taking the whole blame of our
little misunderstanding on her own innocent
shoulders.

I ought to have spoken more plainly she
said. ' Let me try what I can do now. After
many years of disappointment in my married
life, it has pleased Providence to bestow on me
the happiness — the inexpressible happiness —
of being a mother. ]\Iy baby is a sweet little
01 rl ; and mv one reset is that I cannot nurse
her myself

My languid interest in the Minister's Avise
was not stimulated by the announcement of
this domestic event.

I felt no wish to see the ' sweet little girl \
I was not even reminded of another example

of long-deferred maternity, which had occurred
within the limits of my own family circle. All
my sympathies attached themselves to the sad
little figure of the adopted child. I remembered
the poor bab' on my knee, enchanted
by the ticking of my watch — I thought of
her, peacefully and prettily asleep under the
horrid shelter of the condemned cell — and it
is hardly too much to say that my heart was
heavy, when I compared her prospects with
the prospects of her baby-rival. Kind as he
was, conscientious as he w-as, coidd the
Minister be expected to admit to an equal
share in his love the child endeared to him
;is a father, and the child who merely
reminded him of an act of mercy ? As
for his wife, it seemed the merest waste of
time to put her state of feeling (placed
between the two children) to the test of
inquiry. I tried the useless experiment,
nevertheless.

It is pleasant to think,' I began, ' that your
other daughter '

She interrupted me, with the utmost gentleness
: ' Do you mean the child that my husband
was foolish enough to adopt ?'

^ Say rather fortunate enough to adopt,' I
persisted. ' As your own little girl grows up,
she will want a playfellow. And she will
find a playfellow in that other child, whom
the food Minister has taken for his own.'

No, my dear sir — not if I can prevent it.'

The contrast between the cruelty of her
intention, and the musical beauty of the voice
which politely expressed it in those words,
really startled me. I was at a loss how to
answer her, at the very time when I ought to
have been most ready to speak.

You must surely understand,' she went
on, ' that we don't want another person's
child, now we have a little darling of our
own ?'

Oh dear, no ! He said what you said
just now, and (oddly enough) almost in the
same words. But I don't at all despair of
persuading him to change his mind — and you
can help me.'

She made that audacious assertion with
such an appearance of feeling perfectly sure
of me, that my politeness gave way under the
strain laid on it. ^ AVhat do you mean ?' I
asked sharply

Xot in the least impressed by my change of
manner, she took from the pocket of lier dressa
printed paper. ' You will find what I mean
there she replied — and put the paper into my
hand.

It was an appeal to the charitable public,
occasioned by the enlargement of an orphan -
asylum, with which I had been connected for
many years. AVhat she meant was plain

VOL. I. G

enough now. I said notliin<>: : I only looked
at her.

Pleased to find that I was clever enou<2:h to
guess what she meant, on this occasion, the
Minister's wife informed me that the circumstances
were all in our flavour. She still persisted
in taking me into partnership — the
circumstances were in our favour.

'In two years more,' she explained, 'the
child of that detestable creature who was
haired — do you know, I cannot even look at
the little wretch without thinking the
gallows ? — will be old enough (with your
interest to liolp us) to be received into the
asylum. AVhat a relief it will be to get rid of
that child I And how hard I shall work at
canvassing for subscribers' votes ! Your name
will be a tower of strength when I use it as a
reference. Pardon me — you are not looking'
so pleasantly as usual. Do you see some
obstacles ii: cur wav ?'

What can they possibly be ?'

For the second time, my politeness gave
way under the strain laid on it. * You know
perfectly well,' I said, ' what one of the obstacles
is

Am I to understand that you contemplate
any serious resistance on the part of my husband
?'

Certainly !'

She was unaffectedly amused by my simplicity.


Are you a single man ?' she asked.

I am a widower.'

Then your experience ought to tell you
that I know every weak point in the Minister's
character. I can tell him, on your authority,
that the hateful child will be placed in competent
and kindly hands — and I have my own
sweet baby to plead for me. With these advantages
in my favour, do you actually supr—

2

pose I can fail to make iii way of thinking
Ms way of thinking ? You must have forgotten
your own married life! Suppose we
go on to the second of sour two obstacles. I
hope it will be better worth considering than
the first.'

^ The second obstacle will not disappoint
you,' I answered ; ^ I am the obstacle, this
time.*

You refuse to help me ?'
Positively.'

Perhaps reflection may alter your resolution
?'

Reflection will do nothing of the kind.'

You are rude, sir !'

In speaking to you, madam, I have no
alternative but to speak plainly.'

She rose. Her shifting eyes, for once,
looked at me steadily.

^ "What sort of enemy have I meade of yon ?'
she asked. ' A passive enemy who is content

with refusing to liclp me ? Or an active
enemy who will write to my husband ?'

It depends entirely,' I told her, ' on what
your husband does. If he questions me about
you, I shall tell him the truth.'

And if not ?'

In that case, I shall hope to forget that
you ever favoured me with a visit.'

In making this reply I was guiltless of any
malicious intention. AVhat evil interpretation
she placed on my words it is impossible forme
to say ; I can only declare that some intolerable
sense of injury hurried her into an
outbreak of raise. Her voice, strained for the
first time, lost its tuneful beauty of tone.

Come and see us in two years' time,' she
burst out — ' and discover the orphan of the
gallows in our house if you can ! If your
Asylum won't take her, some other Charity
will. Ila, Mr. Governor, I deserve my disappointment
! I ought to have remembered

that you are onh^ a gaoler after all. And
what is a gaoler ? Proverbially a brute. Do
you bear that ? A brute !'

Her strength suddenly failed ber. She
dropped back into the chair from which she
had risen, with a faint cry of pain. A ghastly
pallor stole over her face. There was wine
on the sideboard ; I filled a glass. She refused
to take it. At that time in the day, the
Doctor's duties required his attendance in the
prison. I instantly sent for him. After a
moment's look at her, be took the wine out of
my hand, and held the glass to her lips.

Drink it,' he said. She still refused.
Drink it,' he reiterated, ' or you will die.'

That frightened ber ; she drank the wine.
The Doctor waited for awhile with his fingers
on her pulse. * She will do now,' he said.

Can I go ?' she asked.

Go wherever you please, madam — so long
as you don't go upstairs in a hurry.'

She smiled: 'I understand you, sir — and
thank von for AX)ur advice'

I asked the Doctor, when we were ahjne,
what made him tell her not to go upstairs ina
hurry,

What I felt,' he answered, ' when I had
my lingers on her pulse. You heard her say
that she understood me.'

Yes ; but I don't know what she meant.'

She meant, probably, that her own doctor
had warned her as I did.'

Something seriously wrong with her
health ?'

Yes.'

What is it ?'

Heart.'

MISS CHANCE REAPPEARS.

A AVEEK had passed, since the Minister's wife
had left me, when I received a letter from the
Minister himself.

After surprising me, as he innocently supposed,
by announcing the birth of his child,
he mentioned some circumstances connected
with that event, which I now heard for the
first time.

Within an easy journey of the populous
scene of my present labours,' he wrote, ' there
is a secluded country village called Low Lanes.
The rector of the place is my wife's brother.
Before the birth of our infant, he had asked
his sister to stay for awhile at his house ; and

the doctor thou £^'ht she might safely be allowed
to accept the invitation. Through some error
in the customary calculations, as I suppose,
the child was born unexpectedly at the rectory ;
and the ceremony of baptism was performed at
the church, under circumstances which I am
not able to relate within the limits of a letter.
Let me only say that I allude to this incident
without any sectarian bitterness of feeling —
for I am no enemy to the Church of England.
You have no idea what treasures of virtue and
treasures of beauty, maternity has revealed in
mv wife's sweet nature. Other mothers, in
her proud position, might find their love cooling
towards the poor child whom we have
adopted. But my household is irradiated by
the presence of an angel, who gives an equal
share in her affections to the two little ones
alike.'

In this semi-hysterical style of writing, the
poor man unconsciously told me how cun-

nino-]v and how cruelly his wife was deceiving:
him.

I longed to exhibit that wicked woman in
her true character — but Avhat coukl I do ? She
must have been so favoured by circumstances
as to be able to account fur her absence from
home, without exciting the slightest suspicion
of the journey which she had really taken. If
I declared in my reply to the Minister's letter
that I had received her in my rooms, and if I
repeated the conversation that had taken place,
what would the result be? She would find an
easy refuge in positive denial of the truth —
and, in that case, which of us would her
infatuated husband believe ?

The one part of the letter which I read with
some satisfaction was the end of it.

I was here informed that the Minister's
plans for concealing the parentage of his
adopted daughter had proved to be entirely
successful. The members of the new domestic

household believed the two children to be
infant-sisters. Neither was there any danger
of the adopted chili being identified (as the
oldest chill of the two) by consultation of the

registers.

Before he left our town, the Minister had
seen for himself that no baptismal name had
been added, after the birth of the daughter of
the murderess had been registered, and that no
entry of baptism existed in the registers kept
in places of worship. He drew the inference —
in all probability a true inference, considering
the characters of the parents — that the child
had never been baptized ; and he performed
the ceremony privately, abstaining, for obvious
reasons, from adding' her Christian name to
the imperfect register of her birth. ' I am not
aware,' he wrote, 'whether I have, or have not,
committed an offence against the Law. In any
case, I may hope to have made atonement by
obedience to the Gospel.'

Six weeks passed, and I heard from my
reverend friend once more.

His second letter presented a marked contrast
to the first. It was written in sorrow and
anxiety, to inform me of an alarming change
for the worse in his wife's health. I showed
the letter to my medical colleague. After
reading it he predicted the event that might be
expected, in two words: — Sudden death.

On the next occasion when I heard from the
Minister, the Doctor's grim reply proved to bea
prophecy fulfilled.

When we address expressions of condolence
to bereaved friends, the principles of popular
hypocrisy sanction indiscriminate lying as a
duty which we owe to the dead — no matter
what their lives may have been' — because they
are dead. Within my own little sphere, I have
always been silent, when I could not osier to
afflicted persons expressions of sympathy
which I honestly felt. To have condoled with

the Minister on the loss that he had sustained
by the death of a woman, self-betrayed to meas
shamelessly deceitful, and pitilessly determined
to reach her own cruel ends, would have
been to degrade myself by telling a deliberate
lie. I expressed in my answer all that an
honest man naturally feels, when he is writing
to a friend in distress ; carefully abstaining
from any allusion to the memory of his wife,
or to the place which her death had left vacant
in his household. My letter, I am sorry to
say, disappointed and offended him. He wrote
to me no more, until years had passed, and
time had exerted its influence in producing a
more indulgent frame of mind. These letters
of a later date have been preserved, and will
]probably be used, at the right time, for purposes
of explanation with which I may be
connected in the future.

*****
The correspondent whom I had now lost

was succeeded by a gentleman entirely unknown
to me.

Those reasons which induced me to conceal
the names of persons, while I was relating
events in the prison, do not apply to correspondence
with a stranger writing from another
place. I may, therefore, mention that Mr.
Dunboyne, of Fairmount, on the west coast of
Ireland, was the writer of the letter now
addressed to me. He proved, to my surprise,
to be one of the relations, whom the Prisoner
under sentence of death had not cared to see,
when I offered her the opportunity of saying
fai-ewcll. Mr. Dunboyne was a brother-in-law
of the murderess. He had married her
sister.

His wife, he informed me, had died in childbirth,
leaving him but one consolation — a bov,
v»dio already recalled all that was brightest and
best in his lost mother. The hither was
naturally anxious that the son should never

become acquainted with the disgrace that had
befallen the family.

The letter then proceeded in these terms :
I. heard yesterday', for the first time, by
means of an old newspaper-cutting sent to me
by a friend, that the miserable woman who
suffered the ignominy of public execution has
left an infant child. Can you tell me what
has become of the orphan ? If this little girl
is, as I fear, not well provided for, I only do
what my wife would have done if she had
lived, by offering to make the child's welfare
my especial care. I am willing to place her in
an establishment vrell known to me, in which
she will be kindly treated, well educated, and
fitted to earn her own living; honourable in
later life.

If you feel some surprise at finding that
my good intentions towards this ill-fated niece
of mine do not iro to the length of receiving'
her as a member of mv own lamilv, I beg to

submit some considerations which may perhaps
weigh with you as they have weighed with
me.

In the first j^Jace, there is at least possibility
— however carefully I might try to conceal
it — that the child's parentage would sooner
or later be discovered. In the second place
(and assuming that the parentage had been
successfully concealed), if this girl and my
boy grew up together, there is another possibility
to be reckoned with : they mi^fht become
attached to each other. Does the whither live
who would allow his son ignorantly to marry
the daughter of a convicted murderess ? I
should have no alternative but to part them
cruelly bv revealing; the truth.'

The letter ended with some complimentary
expressions addressed to myself. And the
question was : how ought I to answer it ?

sly correspondent had strongly impressed
me in his favour ; I could not doubt that he

was an honourable man. But the interest of
the Minister in keeping his own benevolent
action secure from the risk of discovery — increased
as that interest was by the filial
relations of the two children towards him, now
publicly established — had, as I could not
doubt, the paramount claim on me. The
absolutely safe course to take was to admit no
one, friend or stranger, to our confidence. I
replied, expressing sincere admiration of Mr.
Dunboyne's motives, and merely informing
him that the child was already provided for.

After that, I heard no more of the Irish
gentleman.

It is perhaps hardly necessary to add that I
kept the Minister in ignorance of vtlj correspondence
with Mr. Dunboyne. I was too unacquainted
with my friend's sensitive and self-tormenting
nature to let him know that a
relative of the murderess was living, and was
aware that she had left a child.

VOL. I. 7

K last event remains to be related, before
I close these pages.

During the year of which I am now writing,
our Chaplain added one more to the many
examples that I have seen of his generous
readiness to serve his friends. He had arranged
to devote his annual leave of absence
to a tour among the English Lakes, when he
received a letter from a clergyman resident in
London, whom he had known from the time
when they had been schoolfellows. This old
friend wrote under circumstances of the severest
domestic distress, which made it absolutely
necessary that he should leave London for
awhile. Having failed to find a representative
who could relieve him of his clerical duties, he
applied to the Chaplain to recommend a clergyman
who might be in a position to help him.
My excellent colleague gave up his holiday-plans
without hesitation, and went to London
himself.

On this return, I asked if he lead seen anything
of some acquaintances of his and of mine,
TV'ho were then visitors to the metropolis. He
smiled significantly when he answered me.

I have a card to deliver from an acquaintance
whom you have not mentioned,' he said ;
and I rather think it will astonish you.'

It simply puzzled me. When he gave me
the card, this is what I found printed on it :

Mrs. Tenbruggen (of South Bevelaxd).'

Well ? said the Chaplain.

Well,' I answered ; ' I never even heard of
Mrs. Tenhruggen, of South Beveland. Who
is she ?'

I married the lady to a foreign gentleman,
only last week, at my friend's church,' the
Chaplain replied. ' Perhaps you may remember
her maiden name ?'

He mentioned the name of the dangerous
creature who had first presented herself to mein
charge of the Prisoner's child — otherwise

7 — 9

Miss Elizabeth Chance. The reappearance of
this woman on the scene — although she was
only represented by her card — caused me a
feeling of vague uneasiness, so contemptibly
superstitious in its nature, that I now remember
it with shame. I asked a stupid
question :

How did it happen ?'

In the ordinary course of such things,' my
friend said. ' They were married by license, in
their parish church. The bridegroom was a
fine tall man, with a bold eye and a dashing
manner. The bride and I recognised each
other directly. When Miss Chance had become
Mrs. Tenbruo'o'en, she took me aside, and o-ave
me her card. " Ask the Governor to accept
it," she said, "in remembrance of the time
when he took me for a nursemaid. Tell him
I am married to a Dutch gentleman of high
family. If he ever comes to Holland, we shall
be Jilad to see him in our residence at South

Beveland." I'iiere is her message to you,
repeated word for word.'

I am "dad she is f^-oino- to live out of
England

Why ? Surely you have no reason to fear
her ?'

Xone whatever.'

You are thinking perhaps of somebody
else ?'

I was thinking of the Minister ; but it
seemed to be safest not to say so.

My pen is laid aside, and my many pages
of writing have been sent to their destination.
What I undertook to do, is now done.
To take a metaphor from the stage — the
curtain falls here on the Governor and the
Prison.

THE GIRLS AND THE JOURNALS.

Helena's diary

AVe both said good-night, and went up to
our room with a new object in view. By
our father's advice we had resolved on keeping
diaries, for the first time in our lives,
and had pledged ourselves to begin before we
went to bed.

Slowly and silently and lazily, my sister
sauntered to her end of the room, and seated
herself at her Writings table. On the desk lay
a nicely bound book, full of blank pages.
The word ' Journal ' was printed on it in gold
letters, and there was fitted to the covers a
bright brass lock and key. A second journal,

exactly similar in every respect to the first,
was placed on the writing-table at my end of
the room. I opened my book. The sight of
the blank leaves irritated me ; they were so
smooth, so spotless, so entirely ready to do
their duty. I took too deep a dip of ink, and
began the first entry in my diary by making a
blot. This was discouraging. I got up, and
looked out of window.

Helena I'

My sister's voice could hardly have addressed
me in a more weary tone, if her
pen had been at work all night, relating
domestic events. ' Well !' I said. ^ Aetatis

it r

Have you done already ?' she asked.

I showed her the blot. My sister Eunice
(the strangest as well as the dearest of girls)
always blurts out what she lias in her mind
at the time. She fixed her eyes gravely on
my spoilt page, and said : * That comforts

me.' I crossed the room, and looked at her
book. Lie had not even summoned energy
enough to make a blot. ' What will Papa
think of us,' she said, ' if we don't begin tonight
?'

Why not begin,' I suggested, ' by writing
down what he said, when he gave us our
journals ? Those wise words of advice will
be in their proper place on the first page of
the new books.'

Xot at all a demonstrative "girl naturally :
not ready with her tears, not liberal with her
caresses, not fluent in her talk, Eunice was
affected by my proposal in a manner wonderful
to see. She suddenly developed into an
excitable person — I declare she kissed me.
Oh,' she burst out, ' how clever you are !
The very thing to write about ; I'll do it
directly.'

She really did it directly; without once
stopping to consider, without once waiting

to ask my advice. Line after line, I heard
her noisy pen hurrying to the bottom of a
first page, and getting three-parts of the way
towards the end of a second page, before she
closed her diary. I reminded her that she
had not turned the key, in the lock which was
intended to keep her writing private.

'It's not worth while,' she answered. 'Anybody
who cares to do it may read what I
write. Good-night.'

The singular change which I had noticed
in her began to disappear, when she set about
her preparations for bed. I noticed the old
easy indolent movements again, and that
regular and deliberate method of brushing
her hair, which I can never contemplate without
feeling a stupefying influence that has
helped me to many a delicious night's sleep.
She said her prayers in her favourite corner
of the room, and laid her head on the pillow
with the luxurious little siirh which announces

that she is shilling asleep. This
reappearance of her usual habits was really
a relief to me. Eunice in a state of excitement
is Eunice exhibiting an unnatural
spectacle.

The next thing I did was to take the liberty
which she had already sanctioned — I mean the
liberty of reading what she had written. Here
it is, copied exactly :

I am not half so fond of anybody as I a in
of Papa. He is always kind, he is always
right. I love him, I love him, I love him.

But this is not how I meant to begin. I
must tell how he talked to us ; I wish he Alas
here to tell it himself

'He said to me: "You are getting glazier
than ever, Eunice." He said to Helena :
You are feelings' the influence of Eunice's
example." He said to both of us : " You are
too ready, my dear children, to sit with your
hands on your laps, looking' at nothings' and

thinking of nothing ; I want to try a new
way of employing your leisure time."

He opened a parcel on the table. He
made each of us a present of a beautiful book,
called "Journal." He said: "when you
have nothing to do, my dears, in the evening,
employ yourselves in keeping a diary of the
events of the day. It will be a useful record
in many ways, and a good moral discipline
for vouno- girls." Helena said : " Oh, thank
you I" I said the same, but not so cheerfully.


The truth is, I feel out of spirits now if I
think of Papa ; I am not easy in my mind
about him. AVhen he is very much interested,
there is a quivering in his slice which I don't
remember in past times. He seems to have
got older and thinner, all on a sudden. He
shouts (which he never used to do) when he
threatens sinners at sermon-time. Benin
dreadful earnest about our souls, he is of

course obliged to speak of the devil ; but lie
never used to hit the harmless pulpit cushion
with his fist, as he docs now. Nobody seems
to have seen these things but me ; and now I
have noticed them what ouixht I to do ? I
don't know ; I am certain of nothing, except
what I have put in at the top of page one : — I
love him, I love him, I love him.'

^^ ^^ *t^ rf^ TP

There this very curious entry ended It
was easy enough to discover the influence
which had made my slow-minded sister so
ready with her memory and her pen — so
ready, in short, to do anything and everything,
provided her heart was in it, and her
father was in it.

But Eunice is wrong, let me tell her, in
what she says of myself.

I, too, have seen the sad change in my
father ; but I happen to know that he dislikes
having it spoken of at home, and I have

kept my painful discoveries to myself. Unhappily,
the best medical advice is beyond our
reach. The one really competent doctor in
this place is known to be an infidel. But for
that shocking obstacle I might have persuaded
my father to see him. As for the other two
doctors whom he has consulted, at different
times, one talked about suppressed gout, and
the other told him to take a year's holiday and
enjoy himself on the Continent.

The clock has just struck twelve. I have
been writing and copying till my eyes are
heavy, and I want to follow Eunice's example
and sleep as soundly as she does. AVe have
made a strange beginning of this journaliziDg
experiment. I wonder how long it will goon,
and Avhat will come of it.

SECOND DAY.

I begin to be afraid that I am as stupid —
no ; that is not a nice word to use — let me

say, as simple as dear Eunice. A diary means
a record of the events of the day ; and not one
of the events of yesterday appears in my
sister s journal or in mine. AVell, it is easy
to set that mistake rii>'ht. Our lives are so
dull (but I would not say so in my father's
hearing, for the world) that the record of one
day will be much the same as the record of
another.

After family prayers and breakfast I suffer
my customary persecution at the hands of
the cook. That is to sav, I am obliged, being;
the housekeeper, to order what we have to eat.
Oh, how I hate inventing dinners I and how I
admire the enviable slowness of mind and
laziness of body Avhicli have saved Eunice
from undertaking the worries of housekeeping
in her turn ! She can go and work in her
garden, while I am racking my invention to
discover variety in dishes without over-stepping
the limits of economy. I suppose

VOL. I. 8

I may confess it privately to myself — how
sorry I am not to have been born a man !

My next employment leads me to my
father's study, to write under his dictation. I
don't complain of this ; it flatters my pride
to feel that I am helping' so great a man. At
the same time, I do notice that here, again,
Eunice's little defects have relieved her of
another responsibility. She can neither keep
dictated words in her memory, nor has she
ever been able to learn how to ^^wt in her
stops.

After the dictation, I have an hour's time
left for practising music. My sister comes in
from the garden, with her pencil and paint-box,
and practises craving. Then we go out
for a walk — a delightful walk, if mv father
goes too. He has something always new to
tell us, suggested by what we pass on the
way. Then, dinner time comes — not always
a pleasant part of the day to me. Sometimes

I bear paternal complaints (always gentle
complaints) of my housekeeping; sometimes
my sister (I won't say my greedy sister) tells
me I have not i>iven her enough to eat. Poor
other ! Dear Eunice !

Dinner having reached its end, we stroll in
the garden when the weather is fine. AVhen
it rains, we make flannel petticoats for poor
old women. AVliat a horrid think; old a^'e is
to look at I To he ugly, to be helpless, to be
miserably unfit for all the pleasures of life — I
hope I shall not live to be an old woman.
What would my father say if he sav this?
For his sake, to say nothing of my own feelings,
I shall do well if I make it a custom to
use the lock of my journal.

Our next occupation is to join the Scripture
class for girls, and to help the teacher. This
is a good discipline for Eunice's temper, and
oh, I don't deny it I — for my temper too. I
may long to box the cars of the whole class,

8-2

but it is my duty to keep a smiling face and
to be a model of patience. From the Scripture
class eve sometimes go to my whither's lecture.
At other times, we may amuse ourselves as
T^'ell as we can till the tea is ready. After tea
we read books which instruct us, poetry and
novels being forbidden. When we are tired of
the books we talk. When supper is over, we
have prayers again, and we go to bed. There
is our day. Oh, dear me ! there is our day.

And how has Eunice succeeded in her
second attempt at keeping a diary ? Here is
what she has written. It has one merit that
nobody can deny — it is soon read :

'I hope Papa will excuse me ; I have nothing
to write about to-day.'

Over and over again, I have tried to point
out to my sister the absurdity of calling her
whither by the infantine nick-name of Papa. I
have reminded her that she is (in years, at

least) no longer a child. ' Why don't you
call liii father, as I do ?' I asked only the
other day.

She made an absurd reply : ' I used to call
him Paria when I was a little girl.'

That,' I reminded her, ' doesn't justify you
in calling him Papa now.'

And she actually answered : ' Yes, it does.'
What a strange state of mind ! And what
a charming ^\v\ in spite of her mind !

THIRD DAY.

The morning post has brought with it a
promise of some little variety in our lives —
or, to speak more correctly, in the life of my
sister.

Our new and nice friends, the Stavcleys,
have written to invite Eunice to pay them a
visit at their house in London. I don't complain
of being left at home. It would be

unfilial inrl^ed if we both of ns forsook our
father ; and last year it was my turn to receive
the first invitation, and to enjoy the change of
scene. The Staveleys are excellent people —
strictly pious members of the Methodist 
exceedingly kind to my sister and
me. Villi it was just as well for my moral welfare
that I ended my visit to our friends v.dien
I did. AVith my fondness for music, I felt the
temptation of the Evil One trying me, ^\hen
I saw placards in the street announcing that
the Italian Opera was open. I had no wish
to be a witness of the shameful and sinful
dancing which goes on (I am told) at the
opera ; but I did feel my principles shaken
when I thought of the wonderful singers and
the entrancing music. And this, when I knew
what an atmosphere of wickedness people
breathe who enter a theatre I I reflect with
horror on what mild have happened if I had
remained a little longer in London.

Helping Eunice to park up. I put her
journal into the box.

You will find something to write about

o

now,' I told lier. ' While I record everything:
that happens at borne, you will keep your
diary of all that you do in London, and when
you come back we will show each other what
we bave written.' My sister is a dear
creature. ' I don't feel sure of beinir able
to do it,' sbe answered ; ' but I promise to
try.' Good Eunice I

EUNICE S DIARY,

The air of London feels very heavy. There
is a nasty smell of smoke in London. There
are too many people in London. They seem
to be mostly people in a hurry. The head of a
country girl, when she goes into the streets,
turns giddy — T suppose through not being
used to the noise.

I do hope that it is London that has put me
out of temper. Otherwise, it must be I
myself who am ill-tempered. I have not yet
been one whole day in the Staveleys' house,
and they have offended me already. I don't
avant Helena to hear of this from other people,

and then to ask me ^vhy I concealed it from
her. AVe are to read each other's journals
when we are both at home again. Let her see
what I have to say for myself here.

There are seven Staveleys in all : Mr. and
Mrs. (two) ; three young Masters (five) ; two
young Misses (seven). An eldest Miss and the
second young Master are the only ones at home
at the present time.

Mr., Mrs., and Miss kissed me when I
arrived. Young Master only shook hands.
He looked as if he would have liked to kiss
me too. Why shouldn't he ? It wouldn't
have mattered. I don't myself like kissing.
AVhat is the use of it ? Where is the pleasure
of it 1

Mrs. was so glad to see me ; she took hold
of me by both hands. She said : ' My dear child,
you are improving. You were wretchedly
thin when I saw you last. Xow you are
almost as well developed as your sister. I

think you are prettier than your sister.' Mr.
didn't ai>:ree to that. He and his wife began
to dispute about me before my face. I do call
that an aa'^Tavatinu' tinto endure.

Mr. said : ' She hasn't got her sister's pretty
gray eyes.'

Mrs. said : ' She has got pretty brown eyes,
which are just as good.'

Mr. said : ' You can't compare her complexion
with Helena's.'

Mrs. said : ' I like Eunice's pale complexion.
So delicate.'

Youmx Miss struck in : 'I admire Helena's
hair — light brown.'

Young Master took his turn : ' I prefer
Eunice's hair — dark brown.'

Mr. opened his great big mouth, and asked
a question : ' Which of you two sisters is the
oldest ? I forget.'

Mrs. answered for me : ' Helena is the oldest ;
she told us so when she was here last.'

I really could not stand that. ' You must
be mistaken I burst out.

Certainly not, my dear.'

Then Helena was mistaken.' I was unwilling
to say of my sister that she had been
deceiving' them, though it did seem only too
likely.

Mr. and Mrs. looked at each other. Mrs.
said : ' You seem to be very positive, Eunice.
Surely, Helena ought to know.'

I said : ' Helena knows a good deal ; but
she doesn't know which of us is the oldest of
the two.'

Mr. put in another question : ' Do you
know ?'

Xo more than Helena does.'

Mrs. said : ' JJon't you keep birthdays ?'

I said : ' Yes ; we keep both our birthdays
on the same day.'

On what day ?'

The first day of the New Year.'

Mr. tried again : ' You can't possibly be
twins ?'

I don't know.'

Perhaps Helena knows ?'

Not she !'

Mrs. took the next question out of her
husband's mouth : ' Come, come, my dear !
you must know how old you are.'

Yes ; I do know that. I'm eighteen.'

And how old is Helena ?'

Helena's eighteen.'

Mrs. turned round to Mr. : ' Do you hear
that !'

Mr. said : ' I shall write to her father, and
ask what it means.'

I said : ' Papa will only tell you what he
told us — years ago.'

What did your father say ?'

He said he had added our two ages together,
and he meant to divide the product
between us. It's so iona' since, I don't remember

Avhat the ]product 'was then. ])iit
I'll tell you T^'hat the product is now. Our
two ages come to thirty-six. Half thirty-six
is eighteen. I set one half, and Helena o'ets

CD CD ■^ ^-

the other. AVhen we ask what it means, and
when friends ask what it means, Papa has got
the same answer for everybody, " I have my
reasons." Tait's all he says — and that's all I
say.'

I had no intention of making mr. angry,
but he did get angry. He left off speaking
to me by my Christian name ; he called me
by my surname. Pie said : ' Let me tell you,
Miss Gracedieu, it is not becoming in a young-lady
to mystify her elders.'

I had heard that it was respectful in a young
lady to call an old gentleman, Sir, and to say,
If you please. I took care to be respectful
now. ' If you please, sir, write to Papa. You
will find that I have spoken the truth.'

A woman opened the door, and said to [Mrs.

Staveley : ' Dinner, Ma'am.' That stopped
this nasty exhibition of our tempers. We
had a very good dinner.

*****

The next day I wrote to Helena, asking;
her what she had really said to the Staveleys
about her age and mine, and telling her what
I had said. I found it too great a trial of my
patience to wait till she could see what I had
written about the dispute in my journaL The
days, since then, have passed, and I have
been too lazy and stupid to keep my diary.

To-day, it is different. 'My head is like a
dark room with the light let into it. I remember
things ; I think I can go on again.

wye have religious exercises in this house,
morning and evening, just as we do at home.
(Xot to be compared with Papa's religious
exercises.) Two days ago his answer came
to Mr. Staveley's letter. He did just what I
had expected — said I had spoken truly, and

disappointed the family by asking to be excused
if he refrained from entering into explanations.
Mr. said : ' Very odd ;' and l^.Irs.
agreed with him. Young Miss is not quite
as friendly now, as she was at first. And
3^oung ]vaster was impudent enough to ask
me if ' I had jot religion.' To conclude the
list of mv worries, I received an aniii'v answer
from Helena. ' Nobody but a simpleton,' she
wrote, ' would have contradicted me as you
did. "Who but you could have failed to see
that Papa's strange objection to let it be
known which of us is the elder makes us
ridiculous before other people ? My ]presence
of mind prevented that. You ought to have
been grateful, and have held your tongue.'
Perhaps Helena is right — but I don't feel it so.
On Sunday, we went to chapel twice. We
also had a sermon read at home, and a cold
dinner. In the evening, a hot dispute on
religion between ]mr. Stavelev and his son. I

don't blame them. After being' pious all day
long on Sunday, I have myself felt my piety
give ^vay towards evening.

There is something pleasant in prospect for
to-morrow. All London is o-oinix must now
to the exhibition of pictures. AVe are going
with all London.

*****

I don't know what is the matter with me
to-night. I have positively been to bed,
without going to sleep ! After tossing and
twisting and trying all sorts of positions, I
am so angry with myself that I have got up
again. Atherton do nothing, I have opened
mv ink-bottle, and I mean to ^'o on with mv
journal.

Xow I think of it, it seems likely that the
exhibition of works of art may have upset me.

I found a dreadfully large number of
pictures, matched by a dreadfully large number
of people to look at them. It is not possible

for me to write about what I saw : there was
too much of it. Besides, the show disappointed
me. I would rather write about a disagreement
(oh, dear, another dispute I) I had With ]airs.
Stave! ey. The cause of it was a famous artist;
not himself, but his works. He exhibited four
pictures — what they call figure subjects. Mrs.
Staveley had a pencil. At every one of the
great man's four pictures, she made a big mark
of admiration on her catalogue. At the fourth
one, she spoke to me: 'Perfectly beautiful,
Eunice, isn't it ?'

I said I didn't know. She said : ' You
strange irii'l, what do you mean by that?'

It would have been rude not to have given
the best answer I could find. I said : ' I
never saw the flesh of any person's face lik:^
the flesh in the faces which that man paints.
He reminds me of wax-work. ^Vhy does lie
paint the same waxy flesh in all four of his
pictures ? I don't see the same coloured flesh

VOL. I. 9

in all the faces about us.' Mrs. Staveley held
up her hand, by way of stopping me. She
said : ' Don't speak so loud, Eunice ; you are
only exposing your own ignorance.'

A voice behind us joined in. The voice
said : * Excuse me, Mrs. Staveley, if I expose
my ignorance. I entirely agree with the
young lady.'

I felt grateful to the person who took my
part, just when I was at a loss what to say for
myself, and I looked round. The person was
a young gentleman.

He wore a beautiful blue frock-coat, buttoned
up. I like a frock-coat to be buttoned up. He
had light-coloured trousers and gray gloves
and a pretty cane. I like light-coloured
trousers and gray gloves and a pretty
cane. AYhat colour his eyes were is more
than I can say ; I only know they made me
Riot when they looked at me. Not that I
maid being made hot ; it is surely better than

being made cold. He and Mrs. Stanley
shook hands.

They seemed to be old friends. I ^vislied I
had been an old friend — not for any bad reason,
I hope. I only wanted to shake hands, too.
What Mrs. Staveley said to him escaped me
somehow. I think the pictures escaped me
also ; I don't remember noticing anything except
the young gentleman, especially when he
took off his hat to me. He looked at me twice
before he went away. I got hot again. I said
to Mrs. Staveley: 'Who is he?'

She laughed at me. I saidac^ain: ' Who is
he?' She said: ' He is young Mr. Dunboyne.'
I said : ' Does he live in London ?' She
laughed again. I said again : ' Does he live
in London ?' She said : ' He is here for a holiday
; he lives with his father at Fairmount, in
Ireland.'

Young Mr. Dunboyne — here for a holiday —
lives with his father at Fairmount in Ireland.

D— 2

I have saith that to myself fifty tones over.
And here it is, saving itself for the fifty-first
time in my journal. I must indeed be a
simpleton, as Helena says. I had better go to
bed aa'ain.

Eunice's diary.

XoT long before I left home, I heard one of our
two servants telling the other about a person
who had been ' bewitched.' Are you bewitched
Ancien you don't understand your own
self? That has been my curious case, smce I
returned from the picture-show. This morning
I took my drawing materials out of my
box, and tried to make a portrait of young mr.
Dunboyne from recollection. I succeeded
pretty well with his frock-coat and cane : but,
try as I might, his face was beyond me. I
have never drawn anything so badly since I
was a little girl ; I almost felt ready to cry.
What a fool I am I

This morning I received a letter from Papa
it was in reply to a letter that I had written
to him — so kind, so beautifully expressed, so
like himself, that I felt inclined to send him a
confession of the strange state of feeling that
has come over me, and to ask him to comfort
and advise me. On second thoughts, I was
afraid to do it. Afraid of Papal I am
farther away from understanding myself than
ever.

Mr. Dunboyne paid us a visit in the afternoon.
Fortunately, before we went out.

I thought I would have a good look at him;
so as to know his face better than I had known
it yet. Another disappointment was in store
for me. Without intending it, I am sure, he
did what no other young man has ever done —
he made me feel confused. Instead of looking
at him, I sat with my head down, and listened
to his talk. His voice — this is high praise —
reminded me of Papa's voice. It seemed to

persuade me as Papa persuades his congregation.
I felt quite at ease again. When he
went away, we shook hands. He gave mj
hand a Httle squeeze. I gave him back the
squeeze — without knowing why. When he
was gone, I wished I had not done it — without
knowing: whv, either.

I heard his Christian name for the first time,
to-day. Mrs. Staveley said to me : ' We are
going to have a dinner-party. Shall I ask
Philip Dunboyne?' I said to Mrs. Staveley :
'Oh, do!'

She is an old woman ; her eyes are dim. At
times, she can look mischievous. She looked
at me mischievously, now. I wished I had
not been so eager to have Mr. Dunboyne asked
to dinner. A fear has come to me that I may
have degraded myself. My spirits are depressed.
This, as Papa tells us in his sermons,
is a miserable world. I am sorry I accepted
the Staveleys' invitation. I am sorry I went

to see the pictures. AVhen that young man
comes to diner, I shall say I have got a headache,
and shall stop upstairs by myself. I
don't think I like his Christian name. I hate
London. I hate every bo(fy.

AVhat I wrote up above, yesterday, is nonsense.
I think his Christian name is perfect.
I like London. I love everybody.

He came to dinner to-day. I sat next to
him. How beautiful a dress-coat is, and a
white cravat! We talked. He wanted to
know what my Christian name was. 1 was so
pleased when I found he was one of the few
people who like it. His hair curls naturally.
In colour, it is something between my hair and
Helena's. He wears his beard. How manly !
It curls naturally, like his hair ; it smells deliciously
of some perfume which is new to me.
He has Avhite hands ; his nails look as if he
polished them; I should like to polish my

nails, if I knew how. AVliatevcr I said, he
agreed with nie; I felt satisfied ^vith my own
conversation, for the first time in my life.
Helena won't find me a simpleton when I go
home. What exquisite things dinner-parties
are!

My sister told me (when we said good-bye)
to be particular in writing down my true
opinion of the Staveleys. Helena wishes to
compare Avhat she thinks of them with Avhat I
think of them.

My opinion of ]mr. Staveley is — I don't like
him. My opinion of Miss Staveley is — I can't
endure her. As for ]vaster Staveley, my clever
sister will understand that he is beneath notice.
But, oh, what a wonderful woman Mrs.
Staveley is ! AVe went out together, after
luncheon to-dav, for a walk in Kensington
Gardens. Xever have I heard any conversation
to compare with sirs. Staveley's. Helena

shall enjoy it here, at second hand. I am
quite changed in two things. First : I think
more of myself than I ever did before.
Second: writing is no longer a difficulty tome.
I could fill a hundred journals, without
once stopping to think.

Mrs. Staveley began nicely : ' I suppose,
Eunice, you have often been told that you
have a good figure, and that you walk
well ?

I said: 'Helena thinks my figure is better
than my face. But do I really walk well ?
Nobody ever told me that.'

She answered : ' Philip Dunboyne thinks
so. He said to me, " I resist the temptation
because I might be wanting in respect if I
gave way to it. But I should like to follow
her when she goes out — merely for the pleasure
of seeing her walk." '

I stood stock-still. I said nothing. When
you are as proud as a peacock (which never

happened to me before), I find you can't move
and can't talk. You can only enjoy yourself.


Kind Mrs. Staveley had more things to tell
me. She said : ' I am interested in Philip. I
lived near Fairmount in the time before I was
married ; and in those days he was a child. I
v^^ant him to marry a charming girl, and be
happy.'

AVhat made me think directly of Miss
Staveley ? AMiat made me mad to know if
she was the charming; girl ? I was bold
enough to ask the question. Mrs. Staveley
turned to me with that mischievous look
which I have noticed already. I felt as if I
had been running at the top of my speed, and
had not got my breath again, yet.

But this good motherly friend set me at my
ease. She explained herself : ' Philip is not
much liked, poor fellow, in our house. My
husband considers him to be weak and vain

and fickle. Ancl;iliy daughter agrees with her
father. There are times when she is barely
civil to Philip. He is too good-natured to
complain, but / see it. Tell me, my dear, do
you like Philij) ?'

Of course I do !' Out it came in those
words, before I could stop it. Was there
something unbecoming to a young lady in
saying what I had just said ? Mrs. Staveley
seemed to be more amused than angry with
me. She took my arm kindly, and led me
along with her. ' My dear, you are as clear
as crystal, and as true as steel. You are a
favourite of mine already.'

What a delightful woman! as I said just
now. I asked if she really liked me as well as
she liked my sister.

She said : ' Better.'

I didn't expect that, and didn't Avant it.
Helena is my superior. She is prettier than I
am, cleverer than I am, better worth likings

than I am. Mrs. Stavclcy shifted the talk
back to riiilip. I onu'ht to have said 'Mv.
IMiilip. Xo, I won't ; I shall call hin Philip.
If I had a heart of stone, I should feel interested
in him, after what Mrs. Stanley has
told me.

Such a sad story, in some respects. Mother
dead ; no brothers or sisters. Only the father
left ; he lives a dismal life on a lonely
stormy coast. Xot a severe old gentleman,
for all that. His reasons for taking to retirement
are reasons (so Mrs. Staveley says)
which nobody knows. He buries himself
among his books in an immense library ; and
he appears to like ii:. His son has not been
brought up, like other young men, at school
and colleii'e. He is a liTcat scholar, educated
at home by his father. To hear this account
of his learning depressed me. It seemed to
put such a distance Ijctween us. I asked Mrs.
Stavclev if he thou<dit me ignorant. As long

as I live I shall remember the reply : ' He
thinks you charming.'

Any other girl would have been satisfied
with this. I am the miserable creature who
is always making mistakes. My stupid
curiosity spoilt the charm of ]\[rs. Staveley's
conversation. And yet it seemed to be a
harmless question ; I only said I should like
to know what profession Philip belonged to.
Mrs. Staveley answered : ' Xo profession.'
I foolishly put a wrong meaning on this. I
said : * Is he idle ?'

Mrs. Staveley laughed. ' ]\Iy dear, lie is an
only son — and his other is a rich man.'
That stopped me — at last.
AVe have enough to live on in comfort at
home — no more. Papa has told us himself
that he is not (and can never hope to be) a
rich man. This is not the worst of it. Last
year, he refused to marry a young couple, both
belonging to our congregation. This was very

unlike his usual kind self. Helena and I
asked him for his reasons. They were reasons
that did not take lone: to lieve. The vounof
gentleman's father was a rich man. He had
forbidden his son to marry a sweet girl — because
she had no fortune.

I have no fortune. And Philip's father is a
rich man.

The best thing I can do is to wipe my pen,
and shut up my Journal, and go home by the
next train.

* ^ * *

I have a great mind to burn my Journal.
It tells me that I had better not think of
Philip any more.

On second thoughts, I won't destroy mv
Journal ; I will only put it away. If I live to
be an old woman, it may amuse me to open
my book again, and see how foolish the poor
wretch was when she was young.

"What is this aching pain in ray heart ?

I don't remember it at any other time in my
life. Is it trouble ? How can I tell ? — I
have had so little trouble. It must be many
years since I Alas wretched enough to cry. I
don't even understand why I am crying now.
My last sorrow, so far as I can remember, was
the toothache. Other girls' mothers comfort
them when they are wretched. If my mother
had lived — it's useless to think about that.
We lost her, while I and my sister were too
young to understand our misfortune.

I wish I had never seen Philip.

This seems an ungrateful wish. Seeing him
at the picture show was a new enjoyment.
Sitting next to him at dinner was a happiness
that I don't recollect feeling, even when Papa
has been most sweet and kind to me. I ought
to be ashamed of myself to confess this.
Shall I write to my sister ? But how should
she know what is the matter with me, when I
don't know it myself ? Besides, Helena is

angry ; lie wrote unkindly to me when lie
answered my last letter.

There is a dreadful loneliness in this great
house at night. I had better say my prayers,
and try to sleep. If it doesn't make me feel
happier, it will prevent me spoiling my Journal
by dropping tears on it.

^P ^P "^ ^F ^?

AVhat an evening of evenings this has been !
Last night it was crying that kept me awake.
To-night I can't sleep for joy.

Philip called on us again to-day. He brought
with him tickets for the performance of an
Oratorio. Sacred music is not forbidden music
among our people. sirs. Staveley and Miss
Staveley went to the concert with us. Philip
and I sat next to each other.

My sister is a musician — I am nothing.
That sounds bitter ; but I don't mean it so.
All I mean is, that I like simple little songs,
which I can sing to myself by remembering

VOL. I. 10

the time. There, my musical enjoyment ends.
When Voices and instruments burst out together
by hundreds, I feel bewildered. I also
£set attacked by fidgets. This last misfortune

CD f a

is sure to overtake me when choruses are
being performed. The unfortunate people
employed are made to keep singing the same
words, over and over and over again, till
I find it a perfect misery to listen to them.
The choruses were unendurable in the performance
to-nio'ht. This is one of them : ' Here
we are all alone in the wilderness — alone in
the wilderness — in the wilderness, alone, alone,
alone — here we are in the wilderness — alone
in the wilderness — all all alone in the wilderness,'
and so on, till I felt inclined to call
for the learned person who writes Oratorios,
and beg him to give the poor music a more
generous allowance of words.

Whenever I looked at Philip, I found him
looking at me. Perhaps he saw from the first

that the music was wearying music to my
ignorant ears. With his usual delicacy he
said nothing' to' some time. But when he
caught me yawning (though I did my best to
hide it. for it looked like being; ungrateful for
the tickets), then he could restrain himself no
longer. He whispered in my ear :

You are getting tired of this. And so
am I.'

I am trying to like it,' I whispered back.

Don't try,' he answered. ' Let's talk.'

He meant, of course, talk in whispers. We
were a good deal annoyed — especially when
the characters were all alone in the wilderness
by bursts of singing and playing which interrupted
us at the most interesting moments.
Philip persevered with a manly firmness.
What could I do but follow his example — at a
distance ?

He said: 'Is it really true that your visit
to Mrs. Staveley is coming to an end ?'

10—2

I answered : ' It comes to an end the day
after tomorrow.'

Are you sorry to be leaving your friends
in London?'

What I miofht have said if he had made
that inquiry a day earlier, when I was the
most miserable creature living, I would rather
not try to guess. Being quite happy as things
were, I could honestly tell him I was sorry.

You can't possibly be as sorry as I am,
Eunice. May I call you by your pretty
name ?'

Yes, if you please.'
Eunice !'

Yes.'

You will leave a blank in my life when
you go away '

There another chorus stopped him, just as I
was eager for more. It was such a delightfully
new sensation to hear a young' gentleman
telling me that I had left a blank in his life.

The next change in the Oratorio broiiglit up
a young lady, singing alone. Some people
behind us grumbled at the smallness of her
voice. AVe thought her voice perfect. It
seemed to lend itself so nicely to our whispers.

He said : ' Will you help me to think of
you while you are away ? I want to imagine
what your life is at home. Do you live in a
town or in the country ?'

I told him the name of our town. When
we give a person information, I have always
heard that we ought to make it complete. So
I mentioned our address in the town. But I
was troubled by a doubt. Perhaps he preferred
the country. Being anxious about this, I
said : ' Would you rather have heard that I
live in the country 7

Live where you may, Eunice, the place
will be a favourite place of mine. Besides,
your town is famous. It has a public attraction
which brings visitors to it.'

I made another of those mistakes which no
sensible girl, in my position, would have committed.
I asked if he alluded to our new
market-place.

He set me right in the sweetest manner : ' I
alluded to a building hundreds of years older
than your market - place — your beautiful
cathedral.'

Fancy my not having thought of the
cathedral ! This is what comes of beings a

o

Cono^reo'ationalist. If I had belonged to the
Church of England, I should have foro-often
the market-place, and remembered the cathedral.
Not that I want to belong' to the Church of
England. Papa's chapel is good enough for me.

The song sung by the lady with the small
voice was so pretty that the audience encored
it. Didn't Phil]) and I help them! With
the sweetest smiles the lady sang it all over
again. The people behind us left the concert.

He said : ' Do you know, I take the

greatest interest in cathedrals. I propose to
enjoy the privilege and pleasure of seeing your
cathedral early next week.'

I had only to look at him to see that 1 was
the cathedraL It was no surprise to hear
next that he thought of ' paying his respects
to Mr. Gracedieu.' He beu'^'ed me to tell him
what sort of reception he might hope to meet
with when he called at our house. I o't so
excited in doing justice to Papa, that I quite
forgot to whisper when the next question
came. Philip wanted to know if Mr. Grace-dieu
disliked strangers. AVhen I answered,
^ Oh dear, no !' I said it out loud, so that the
people heard me. Cruel, cruel people I They
all turned round and stared. One hideous old
woman actually said, ' Silence !' Miss Staveley
looked disgusted. Even kind ]\lrs. Staveley
lifted her eyebrows in astonishment.

Philip, dear Philip, protected and composed
me.

He held my hand devotedly till the end of
the performance. AVhen he put us into the
carriage, I was last. He whispered in my ear :
Expect me next week.' Miss Staveley might
be as ill-natured as she pleased, on the way
home. It didn't matter what she said. The
Eunice of yesterday might have been mortified
and offended. The Eunice of to-day was
indifferent to the sharpest things that could be
said to her.

«: # # # ^

All through yesterday's delightful evening,
I never once thought of Philip s father. When
I woke this morning, I remembered that old
Mr. Dunboyne was a rich man. I could eat
no breakfast for thinking of the poor girl Who
was not allowed to marry her young gentleman,
because she had no money.

Mrs. Staveley waited to speak to me till the
rest of them had left us together. I had expected
her to notice that I looked dull and

dismal. Nol her cleverness got at my secretin
quite another way.

She said: 'How do you feel after the concert
? You must be hard to j^lcase indeed
if you were not satisfied with the accompaniments
last night.'

^ The accompaniments of the Oratorio ?'

Xo, my dear. The accompaniments of
Philip.'

I suppose I ought to have laughed. In my
miserable state of mind, it was not to be done.
I said : ' I hope 'Mv. Dunboyne's father will
not hear how kind he was to me.'

Mrs. Staveley asked why.

sly bitterness overflowed at my tongue. I
said : ' Because Papa is a poor man.'

And Philip's Papa is a rich man,' says
Mrs. Staveley, putting my own thought into
words for me. ' Where do you get these
ideas, Eunice ? Surely, you are not allowed
to read novels ?'

Oh no !'

And you have certainly never seen a
play ?

Never

Clear your head, child, of the nonsense
that has got into it — I can't think how.
liich Mr. Dunboyne has taught his heir to
despise the base act of marrying for money.
He knows that Philip will meet young ladies
at my house ; and he has written to me on
the subject of his son's choice of a wife.
'• Let Philip hind good principles, good
temper, and good looks ; and I promise
beforehand to find the money." There is
what he says. Are you satisfied with Philip's
whither, now ?'

I jumped up in a state of ecstasy. Just as
I had thrown my arms round-airs. Staveley's
neck, the servant came in with a letter, and
handed it to me.

Helena had written again, on this last day

of my visit. Her letter was full of instructions
for buying things that she wants, before
I leave London. I read on quietly enough
until I came to the postscript. The effect
of it on me may be told in two words : I
screamed. Mrs. Staveley was naturally
alarmed. ' Bad news ?' she asked. Being
quite unable to offer an opinion, I read the
postscript out loud, and left her to judge for
herself.

This was Helena's news from home :
I must prepare you for a surprise, before
your return. You will find a strange lady
established at home. Don't suppose there is
any prospect of her bidding us good-bye, if
we only wait long enough. She is already
(with father's full approval) as much a
member of the family as we are. You shall
form your own mibiased opinion of her,
Eunice. For the present, I say no more.'
I asked Mrs. Staveley what she thought

of my news from home. She said : ' Your
father approves of the lady, my dear. I suppose
it's good news.'

But Mrs. Staveley did not look as if she
believed in the o-ood news, for all that.

Helena's diary.

To-day, I went as usual to the Scripture-class
for o'irls. It was harder work than
ever, teaching without Eunice to help me.
Indeed, I felt lonely all day without my
sister. When I got home, I rather hoped
that some friend might have come to see us,
and have been asked to stay to tea. The
housemaid opened the door to me. I asked
Maria if anybody had called.

Yes, Miss ; a lady, to see the master.'

^ A stranger ?'

Xever saw her before, Miss, in all my
life.'

I put no more questions. Many ladies
visit my whither. They call it consulting
Minister. He advises them in their
troubles, and guides them in their religious
difficulties, and so on. They come and go
in a sort of secrecy. So far as I know, they
are mostly old maids, and they waste the
Minister's time.

When my father came in to tea, I began
to feel some curiosity about the lady who
had called on him. Visitors of that sort,
in general, never appear to dwell on his
mind after they have gone away ; he sees
too many of them, and is too well accustomed
to what they have to say. On this
particular evening, however, I perceived appearances
that set me thinking ] he looked
worried and anxious.

Has anything happened, father, to vex
you ?' I said.

Yes.'

Is the lad' concerned in it ?'

AVbat lady, my dear ?'

^ The lady who called on you while I was
out;

Who told you she had called on me ?'

I asked Maria '

That will do, Helena, for the present.'

He drank his tea and Avant back to his
study, instead of staying' awhile, and talking
pleasantly as usual. ]\Iy respect submitted
to his want of confidence in me ; but my
curiosity was in a state of revolt. I sent for
Maria, and proceeded to make my own discoveries,
with this result :

Xo other person had called at the house.
Xothing had happened, except the visit of the
mysterious lady. ' She looked between young
and old. And, oh dear me, she was certainly
not pretty. Xot dressed nicely, to my
mind ; but the' do say dress is a matter
of taste.'

Try as I might, I could get no more than
that out of our stupid young housemaid.

Later in the evening, the cook had occasion
to consult me about supper. This was a
person possessing the advantages of age and
experience. I asked if she had seen the lady.
The cook's reply promised something new :
I can't say I saw the lady ; but I heard
her.'

Do you mean that you heard her speaking?



Xo, Miss — crying.'

Where was she crying ?'

'• In the master's study.'

How did you come to hear her ?'

Am I to understand, Miss, that you

suspect me of listening ?'

Is a lie told by a look as bad as a lie toil

by words ? I looked shocked at the bare idea

of suspecting a respectable person of listening.

The cook's sense of honour was satisfied ; she

readily explained herself : ' I was passing the
door, Miss, on my way upstairs.'

Here my discoveries came to an end. It
was certainly possible that an afflicted member
of my Other's congregation might have calledon
him to be comforted. But he sees plenty
of afflicted ladies, without looking worried and
anxious after they leave him. Still suspecting
something out of the ordinary course of
events, I waited hopefully for our next meeting
at supper-time. Xothing came of it. My
father left me by myself again, when the
meal was over. He is always courteous to his
daughters ; and he made an apology : ' Excuse
me, Helena, I want to think.'

I went to bed in a vile humour, and slept
badly ; wondering, in the long wakeful hours,
what new rebuff I should meet with on the
next day.

At breakfast this morning I was agreeably
VOL. I. 11

surprised. Xo signs of anxiety showed
themselves in my father's face. Instead of
retiring; to his study when we rose from the
table, he proposed taking' a turn in the
garden : ' You are looking pale, Helena,
and you will be the better for a little fresh
air. Besides, I have something to say to
you.'

Excitement, I am sure, is good for young
women. I saw in his face, I heard in his last
words, that the mystery of the lady was at
last to be revealed. The sensation of languor
and fatigue which follows a disturbed night
left me directly.

My father gave me his arm, and we walked
slowly up and down the lawn.

^Vhen that lady called on me yesterday,'
he besran, Sou wanted to know who she was,
and you were surprised and disappointed when
I refused to gratify your curiosity. My
silence was not a selfish silence, Helena. I

was thinking' of you and your sister ; and
I was at a loss how to act for the best. You
shall hear why my children were in my mind,
presently. I must tell you first that I have
arrived at a decision ; I hope and believe on
reasonable grounds. Ask me any questions
you please ; my silence will be no longer an
obstacle in your way.'

This was so very encouraging that I said
at once : ' I should like to know who the lady

IS.

The lady is related to me he answered.
'We are cousins.'

Here was a disclosure that I had not anticipated.
In the little that I have seen of the
world, I have observed that cousins — when
they happen to be brought together under
interesting circumstances — can remember their
relationship, and forget their relationship, just
as it suits them. ' Is your cousin a married
lady ?' I ventured to inquire.

11—2

'No.'

Short as it was, that reply might perhaps
mean more than appeared on the surface. The
cook had heard the lady crying. What sort of
tender agitation was answerable for those
tears ? AVas it possible, barely possible, that
Eunice and I mio;ht ^o to bed, one niofht, a
widower's daughters, and wake uj) the next
day to discover a stepmother ?

^ Have I or my sister ever seen the lady ?' I
asked.

• Never. She has been living abroad ; and
I have not seen her myself since we were both
young people.'

My excellent innocent father! Xot the
faintest idea of what I had been thinking; of
was in his mind. Little did he suspect how
welcome was the relief that he had afforded to
his daughter's wicked doubts of him. But he
had not said a word yet about his cousin's
personal appearance. There might be remains

of food looks which the housemaid was too
stupid to discover.

After the long interval that has passed
since you met,' I said, ^ I suppose she has
become an old woman ?'

Xo, my dear. Let us say, a middle-aged
woman.'

Perhaps she is still an attractive person
?'

He smiled. 'I am afraid, Helena, that
would never have been a very accurate description
of her.'

I now knew all that I wanted to know
about this alarming person, excepting one last
morsel of information which my father had
strangely forgotten.

AVe have been talking about the lady for
some time,' I said ; ' and you have not yet
told me her name.'

Father looked a little embarrassed. ' It's
not a very pretty name,' he answered. ' Vi

cousin, my unfortunate cousin, is — Miss
Jillgall'

I burst out with such a loud ' Oh !' that he
laughed. I caught the infection, and laughed
louder still. Bless Miss Jillgall ! The interview
promised to become an easy one for both
of us, thanks to her name. I was in good
spirits, and I made no attempt to restrain
them. ' The next time Miss Jillf^all honours
you with a visit,' I said, ' you must give mean
opportunity of being presented to her.'

He made a strange reply : ' You may find
your opportunity, Helena, sooner than you
anticipate.'

Did this mean that she was iroino: to call
again in a day or two ? I am afraid I spoke
flippantly. I said : ' Oh, father, another lady
fascinated by the popular preacher ?'

The garden chairs Avere near us. He signed
to me gravely to be seated by his side, and
said to himself: ' This is my fault'

What is your fault ?' I asked.

I have left you in ignorance, my dear, of
my cousin's sad story. It is soon told ; and,
if it checks your merriment, it will make
amends by deserving your sympathy. I was
indebted to her father, when I was a boy, for
acts of kindness which I can never forget.
He was twice married. The death of his first
wife left him with one child — once my playfellow
; now the lady whose visit has excited
your curiosity. His second wife was a Belgian.
She persuaded him to sell his business in
London, and to invest the money in a partnership
with a brother of hers, established asa
sugar-refiner at Antwerp. The little daughter
accompanied her father to Belgium. Are you
attending to me Helena ?'

I was waiting for the interesting part of
the story, and was wondering when he would
get to it.

As time went on,' he resumed, ' the new

partner found that the value of the business
at Antwerp had been greatly overrated. After
a long struggle with adverse circumstances,
he decided on Withdrawing from the partnership
before the whole of his capital Alas lost
in a failing commercial speculation. The end
of it was that he retired, with his daughter,
to a small town in East Flanders ; the wreck
of his property having left him with an income
of no more than two hundred pounds a year.'

I showed my father that I was attending
to him now, by inquiring what had become
of the Belgian wife. Those nervous quivering,
which Eunice has mentioned in her
diary, began to appear in his face.

It is too shameful a story,' he said, ' to
be told to a young girl. The marriage was
dissolved by law ; and the wife was the
person to blame. I am sure, Helena, you
don't wish to hear any more of tlds part of
the story.'

I did wish. Ikit 1 saw that he expected
me to say No — so I said it.

The father and daughter,' he went on,
never so much as thought of returning to
their own country They were too poor to
live comfortably in England. In Belgium
their income was sufficient for their wants.
On the whither's death, the daughter remained
in the town. She had friends there, and
friends nowhere else ; and she might have
lived abroad to the end of her days, but fora
calamity to which we are all liable. A
long and Serious illness completely prostrated
her. Skilled medical attendance, costing-large
sums of money for the doctors' travelling
expenses, was imperatively required.
Experienced nurses, summoned from a distant
hospital, were in attendance night and
day. Luxuries, far beyond the reach of her
little income, were absolutely required to
support her wasted strength at the time of

lier tedious recovery. In one word, her resources
were sadly diminished, when the
poor creature had paid her debts, and had
regained her hold on Hfe. At that time, she
unhappily met with the man who has ruined
her.'

It was getting interesting at last. ' Ruined
her ?' I repeated. ' Do you mean that he
robbed her ?'

That, Helena, is exactly what I mean —
and many and many a helpless woman has
been robbed in the same way. The man of
whom I am now speaking was a lawyer inlarge
practice. He bore an excellent character,
and was highly respected for his exemplary
life. sly cousin (not at all a discreet person,
I am bound to admit) was induced to consult
him on her pecuniary affairs. He expressed
the most generous sympathy — offered to employ
her little capital in his business — and
pledged himself to pay her double the interest

for her money, which she had been in the
habit of receiving; from the sound investment
chosen by her father.'

And of course he got the money, and
never paid the interest ?' Eager to hear the
end, I interrupted the story in those inconsiderate
words. ]\Iy father's answer quietly
reproved me.

He paid the interest regularly as long ashe
lived.'

And what happened when he died ?'

He died a bankrupt ; the secret profligacy
of his life was at last exposed. Xothing,
actually nothing, was left for his creditors.
The unfortunate creature, whose ugly name
has amused you, must get help somewhere, or
must g:o to the workhouse.'

If I had been in a state of mind to attend
to trifles, this would have explained the reason
Avliy the cook had heard Miss Jillgalh crying.
But the prospect before me — the unendurable

prospect of having a strange woman in the
house — had showed itself too plainly to be
mistaken. I could think of nothing else.
AVith infinite difficulty I assumed a momentary
appearance of composure, and suggested
that Miss Jillgall's foreign friends might have
done something to help her.

My father defended her foreign friends.
sly dear, they were poor people, and did all
they could afford to do. But for their kindness,
my cousin might not have been able to
return to England.'

And to cast herself on your mercy,' I
added, ' in the character of a helpless
woman.'

Xo, Helena I Xot to cast herself on my
mercy — but to find my house open to her, asher
father s house was open to me in the bygone
time. I am her only surviving relative ;
and, while I live, she shall not be a helpless
woman.'

I began to wish that I lead not spoken out
so plainly. ]\Iy father's sweet temper — I do
so sincerely wish I had inherited it ! — made
the kindest allowances for me.

^ I understand the momentary bitterness of
feeling that has escaped you he said ; ' I may
almost say that I expected it. My only hesitation
in this matter has been caused by my
sense of what I owe to my children. It was
putting your endurance, and your sister's endurance,
to a trial to expect you to receive a
stranger (and that stranger not a young girl
like yourselves) as one of the household, living
with you in the closest intimacy of family life.
The consideration which has decided me does
justice, I hope, to you and Eunice, as well as
to myself. I think that some allowance is
due from my daughters to the father who lias
always made loving allowance for them. Am
I wrong in believing that my good children
have not forgotten this, and have only waited

for the occasion to feel the pleasure of reward-iii'
me ?'

It was beautifully put. There was but one
tho' to be done — I kissed him. And there
was but one tinto be said. I asked at what
time we might expect to receive ]\Iiss Jillgall.

She is staving, Helena, at a small hotel in
the town. I have already sent to say that weare
waiting to see her. Perhaps you will look
at the spare bedroom ?'

It shall he got ready, father, directly.'

I ran into the house; I rushed upstairs into
the room that is Eunice's and mine ; I locked
the door, and then I gave way to my rage,
before it stifled me. I stamped on the floor,
I clenched my fists, I cast myself on the bed,
I reviled that hateful woman by every hard
word that I could throw at her. Oh, the
luxury of it ! the luxury of it !

Cold water and my hairbrush soon made me
fit to be seen airain.

As for the spare room, it lookcl a great
deal too comfortable for an incubus from
foreign parts. The one improvement that I
could have made, if a friend of mine had been
expected, was suggested by the window-curtains.
I was looking at a torn place in one of
them, and determining to leave it unrepaired,
when I felt an arm slipped round my waist
from behind. A voice, so close that it tickled
my neck, said : ' Dear girl, what friends we
shall be !' I turned round, and confronted
Miss Jill gall

IIELEXA S DIARY.

If I am not a good girl, where is a good girl
to be found ? This is in Eunice's style. It
sometimes amuses me to mimic my simple
sister.

I have just torn three pages out of my diary,
in deference to the expression of my father's
wishes. He took the first opportunity which
this cousin permitted him to enjoy of speaking
to me privately ; and his object was to caution
me against hastily relying on first impressions
of anybody — especially of Miss Jillgall. 'AVait
for a day or two,' he said ; ' and then form
your estimate of the new member of our household.'


The stormy state of my temper had passed
away, and had left my atmosphere cain again
I could feel that I had received good advice ;
but unluckily it reached me too late.

I had formed mv estimate of Miss Silk-all,
and had put it in writing for my own satisfaction,
at least an hour before my father found
himself at liberty to speak to me. I don't
agree with him in distrusting first impressions;
and I had proposed to put my opinion to the
test, by referring to what I had written about
his cousin at a later time. However, after
what he Iliad said to me, I felt bound in filial
duty to take the pages out of my book, and tolet
two days pass before I presumed to enjoy
the luxury of hating Miss Jillgall.

On one thins: I am determined : Eunice
shall not form a hasty opinion, either. She
shall undergo the same severe discipline
of self-restraint to which her sister is obliged
to submit. Let us be just, as somebody

VOL. I. 12

says, before we are generous. Xo nitre for
to-day.

*****

I open my diary again — after the prescribed
interval has elapsed. The first impression
produced on me by the new member of our
household remains entirely unchanged.

Have I already made the remark that, when
one removes a page from a book, it does not
necessarily follow that one destroys the page
afterwards? or did I leave this to be inferred?
In either case, my course of proceeding was the
same. I ordered some paste to be made. Then
I unlocked a drawer, and found my poor ill-used
leaves, and put them back in my Journal.
An act of justice is surely not the less praiseworthy
because it is an act of justice done to
one's self.

]\Iy father has often told me that he revises
his writings on religious subjects. I may
harmlessly imitate that good example, by

revising my restored entry. It is now a sufficiently
remarkable performance to be distinguished
bv a title. Let me call it :

&

Impressions of Miss Jilhjall.

My first impression was a strong one — it was
produced by the state of this lady's breath. In
other words, I was obliged to let her kiss me.
It is a duty to be considerate towards human
infirmity. I will only say that I thought I
should have fainted.

My second impression draws a portrait, and
produces a striking likeness.

Figure, little and lean — hair of the dirty
drab colour which we see in string — small
light gray eyes, sly and restless, and deeply
sunk in the head — prominent cheek-bones, and
a florid complexion — an inquisitive nose, turning
up at the end — a large mouth and a
servile smile — raw-looking]: hands, decorated
with black mittens — a visiting white jacket

12—2

and a limp skirt — manners familiar — temper
cleverly hidden — voice too irritating to be
mentioned. Whose portrait is this ? It is
the photograph of Miss Jillgall, taken in
swords.

Her true character is not easy to discover ;
I suspect that it will only show itself little by
little. That she is a born meddler in other
people's affairs, I think I can see already. I
also found out that she trusted to flattery as
the easiest means of making herself agreeable.
She tried her first experiment on myself

You charming' o-ir] ' she beo:an, ' your
bright face encourages me to ask a favour.
Pray make me useful ! The one aspiration of
my life is to be useful. Unless you employ
me in that wav, I have no right to intrude
myself into your family circle. Yes, yes, I
know that your father has opened his house
and his heart to me. But I dare not found
any claim — your name is Helena, isn't it?

Dear Helena, I dare not found any claim on
Avliat I owe to your father's kindness.'

Why not?' I inquired.

Because your lather is not a man '

I was rude enough to interrupt her : ' What
is he then ?'

'An angel Miss Jillgall answered solemnly.
• A destitute earthly creature like me must not
look up as high as your father. I might bedazzled.'


This was rather more than I cotild endure
patiently. ' Let us try,' I suggested, ' if avc
can't understand each other, at starting.'

]bliss Jillgall's little eyes twinkled in their
bony caverns. ' The very thing I Alas going
to propose I' she burst out.

Avery well,' I went on ; ' then, let me tell
you plainly that flattery is not relished in this
house.'

'Flattery?' She put her hand to her head
as she repeated the word, and looke 1 quite 1)c-

wilder. * Dear Helena, I have lived all my
life in East Flanders, and mv own lano-uau'e is
occasionally strange to me. Can you tell me
what flattery is in Flemish?'

I don't understand Flemish.'

How very rirovokino-! You don't understand
Flemish, and I don't understand Flattery.
I should so like to know what it means. Ah,
I see books in this lovely room. Is there a
dictionary among them?' She darted to the
bookcase, and discovered a dictionary. ' Xow
I shall understand Flattery,' she remarked —
'and then we shall understand each other. Oh,
let me find it for myself!' She ran her raw red
finger along the alphabetical headings at the
top of each page. '"'fad.'' That won't do.
'•'fie." Farther on still-flee'' Too far
the other way. '* fla." Here we are I
'flattery: False praise. Commendation bestowed
for the purpose of gaining favour and
influence." Oh, Helena, how cruel of you I'

She dropped the book, and sank into a chair —
the picture, if such a thing can be, of a brokenhearted
old maid.

I should most assuredly have taken the
opportunity of leaving her to her own devices, if
I had been free to act as I pleased. But my
interests as a daughter forbade me to make an
enemy of my father's cousin, on the first day
when she had entered the house. I made an
apology, very neatly expressed.

She jumped up — let me do her justice; Miss
Jillgall is as nimble as a monkey — and
(Faugh!) she kissed me for the second time.
If I had been a man, I am afraid I should have
called for that deadly poison (we are all
temperance people in this house) known by the
name of Brandy.

'If you will make me love you,' Miss Jillgall
explained, 'you must expect to be kissed. Dear
girl, let us go back to my poor little petition.
Oh, do make me useful I There are so many

things I can do : you will find me a treasure in
the house. I write a good hand ; I understand
polishing furniture ; I can dress hair (look at
my own hair) ; 1 play and sing a little when
people want to be amused ; I can mix a salad
and knit stockings — who is this?' The cook
came in, at the moment, to consult me; I
introduced her. ' And, oh,' cried Miss Jillgall
in ecstasy, ' I can cook ! Do please let me seethe
kitchen.'

The cook's face turned red. She had come
to me to make a confession ; and she had not
(as she afterwards said) bargained for the
presence of a stranger. For the first time in
her life she took the liberty of Whispering tome
: ' I must ask you, Miss, to let me send up
the cauliflower plain boiled ; I don't understand
the directions in the book for doings it in the
foreign way.'

Miss Jillgall's ears — perhaps because they
are so large — possess a quickness of hearing,

quite unparalleled in my experience. Xot one
word of the cook's whispered confession had
escaped her.

Here,' she declared, ' is an opportunity of
making myself useful ! AVhat is the cook's
name ? Hannah ? Take me downstairs,
Hannah, and I'll show you how to do the
cauliflower in the foreign wav. She seems
to hesitate. Is it possible that she doesn't
believe me ? Listen, Hannah, and judge for
yourself if I am deceiving: you. Have you
boiled the cauliflower ? Very well ; this is
what you must do next. Take four ounces
of grated cheese, two ounces of best butter,
the yolks of four eggs, a little bit of glaze,
lemon-juice, nutmeg — dear, dear, how black
she looks ! AVhat have I said to offend
her ?'

The cook passed over the lady who had
presumed to instruct her, as if no such person
had been present, and addressed herself

to me : ' If I am to be interfered with in my
own kitchen, Miss, I will ask you to suit
yourself at a month's notice.'

Miss Jillo'all wrung; her hands in despair.

I meant so kindly,' she said ; ' and I seem
to have made mischief. AVith the best intentions,
Helena, I have set you and your
servant at variance. I really didn't know
you had such a temper, Hannah,' she declared,
following' the cook to the door. ' I'm sure
there's nothing I am not ready to do to make
it up with you. Perhaps, you have not got
the cheese downstairs ? I'm ready to go out ■
and buy it for you. I could show you how
to keep eggs sweet and fresh for weeks together.
Your gown doesn't fit very well ;
I shall be glad to improve it, if you will leave
it out for me after you have gone to bed.
There !' cried Miss Jillgall, as the cook
majestically left the room, without even looking
at her, ' I have done my best to make it

up, and you see how my advances are received.
What more could I have done ? I really ask
you, dear, as a friend, what more could I
have done ?'

I had it on the tip of my tongue to say :
The cook doesn't ask you to buy cheese for
her, or to teach her how to keep) eggs, or to
improve the fit of her gown ; all she wants
is to have her kitchen to herself.' But here
again it was necessary to remember that this
odious person was my father's guest.

Pray don't distress yourself,' I began ; ' I
am sure you are not to blame, Miss Jill-gall
'

Oh, don't I'

<- Don't— what ?'

Don't call me ]\Ii:^s Jillgall. I call you
Helena. Call me Salina.'

I had really not supposed it possible that ^
she could be more unendurable than ever.
When she mentioned her Christian name, she

succeeded nevertheless in producing that result.
In the whole list of women's names, is
there anyone to be found so absolutely sickening
as ' Selina'? I forced myself to pronounce
it ; I made another neatly-expressed apology ;
I said English servants were so very peculiar.
Selina was more than satisfied ; she was quite
delighted.

Is that it, indeed ? An explanation was
all I wanted. How good of you ! And now
tell me — is there no chance, in the house or
out of the house, of my making myself useful?
Oh, Avhat's that ? Do I see a chance ? I do !
I do !'

Miss Jillgall's eyes are more than mortal.
At one time, they are microscopes. At another
time, they are telescopes. She discovered
(right across the room) the torn place in the
window-curtain. In an instant, she snatched
a dirty little leather case out of her pocket,
threaded her needle, and began darning the

curtain. She san^u' over her work. ' sly

heart is light, my Avill is free ' I can

repeat no more of it. When I heard her
singing voice, I became reckless of consequences,
and ran out of the room with my
hands over mv ears.

Helena's diary.

When I reached the foot of the stairs, my
father called me into his study.

I found him at his Writing-table, with such
a heap of torn-up paper in his Avast-basket
that it overflowed on to the floor. He explained
to me that he had been destroying a
large accumulation of old letters, and had
ended (when his employment began to grow
wearisome) in examining his correspondence
rather carelessly. The result was that he had
torn up a letter, and a copy of the reply,
which ought to have been set aside as worthy
of preservation. After collecting the fragments,

he had heaped their on the talc. If
I could contrive to put them together again
on fair sheets of paper, and fasten them in
their ri^fht places ^vith ovum, I should be doings
him a service, at a time when he was too busy
to set his mistake right for himself.

Here was the best excuse that I could desire
for keeping out of Miss Jillgall's way. I
cheerfully set to work on the restoration of
the letters, while my father went on with his
writing.

Having put the fragments together — excepting
a few gaps caused by morsels that
had been lost — I was unwilling to listen
them down with gum, until I could feel sure
of not having made any mistakes ; especially
in regard to some of the lost words which I
had been obliged to restore by guess-work.
So I copied the letters, and submitted them,
in the first place, to my father's approval.

He praised me in the prettiest manner for

the care that I had taken. lUit, when he
began, after some hesitation, to read my
copy, I noticed a change. The smile left his
face, and the nervous Quivering showed themselves
again.

Quite right, my child,' he said, in low sad
tones.

On returning to my side of the table, I
expected to see him resume his writing. He
crossed the room to the window, and stood
(with his back to me) looking out.

AVhen I had first discovered the sense of the
letters, they failed to interest me. A tiresome
woman, presuming on the kindness of a good-natured
man to be"' a favour which she had no
rio'ht to ask, and receiving' a refusal which she
had richly deserved, was no remarkable event
in my experience as my f other's secretary and
copyist. But the change in his f.ice, Avhile he
read the correspondence, altered my opinion of
the letters. There was more in them evidently

than I had discovered. I kept my manuscript
copy — here it is :

Froid) Miss Elizabeth Chance to the Pier. Abel

Graccdieu.

(Date of year, 1859. Date of month, missing.)

Dear Sik,

You have, I hope, not quite forgotten
the interesting conversation that we had last
year in the Governor's rooms. I am afraid I
spoke a Httle flippantly at the time ; but I am
sure you will believe me when I say that this
was out of no want of respect to yourself. ]\Iy
pecuniary position being far from prosperous,
I am endeavouring to obtain the vacant situation
of housekeeper in a public institution, the
prospectus of which 1 enclose. You will see
it is a rule of the place that a candidate must
be a single woman (which I am), and must be
recommended by a clergyman. You are the
only reverend gentleman whom it is my good
fortune to know, and the thing is of course a

VOL. I. lo

mere formality. Pray excuse this application,
and oblige me by acting as my reference.
Sincerely yours,

Elizabeth Chance.

Pes. — Please address : Miss E. Chance,
Poste Restante, St. ]\Iartin's-le-Grand, London.'


'from, the Rev. Abel Gracedieu to Miss Chance,
(Copy.)

JlADAM,

The brief conversation to which your
letter alludes, took place at an accidental meeting
between us. T then saw you for the first
time, and I have not seen you since. It is
impossible for me to assert the claim of a perfect
stranger, like yourself, to fill a situation of
trust. I must beo- to decline acting; as your
reference.

Your obedient servant,

'Abel Gracedieu.'
« ^ # « #

My whither Twas still at the window.

In that idle position he could hardly complain
of me for interrupting him, if I ventured
to talk about the letters which I had put together.
If my curiosity displeased him, he
had only to say so, and there would be an end
to any allusions of mine to the subject. My
first idea was to join him at the window. On
rejection, and still perceiving that he kept his
back turned on me, I thought it might be
more prudent to remain at the table.

This Miss Chance seems to be an impudent
person ?' I said.

• Yes.'

• Was she a young woman, when you met
with her ?'

^ Yes.'

• What sort of a woman to look at ? Fly ?'

• Xo.'

Here were three answer wliicli Eunice herself
wottld have been quick enough to interpret

1:]— 2

as three warnings to say no more. I felt a
little hurt by his keeping his back tnrnecl on
me. At the same time, and naturally, I think,
I found my interest in ]\Iiss Chance (I don't
say my friendly interest) considerably increased
by my father's unusually rude behaviour. I
was also animated by an irresistible desire to
make him turn round and look at me.

Miss Chance's letter was written many
years ago,' 1 resumed. ' I wonder what has
become of her since she wrote to you. '

I know nothing about her.'

Xot even whether she is alive or dead ?'

Not even that. What do these questions
mean, Helena ?'

Nothing, father.'

I declare he looked as if he suspected me !

Why don't you speak out ?' he said.
Have I ever taught you to conceal your
thoughts ? Have I ever been a hard father,
who discouraged you when you wished to

confide in him ? What are you thinking
a')out ? Do you know anything of this
woman ?'

Oh, father, what a question ! I never even
heard of her till I put the torn letters together.

I begin to wish you had not asked

00.'

me to do it.'

So do I. It never struck me that you
would feel such extraordinary — I had almost
said, such vulgar — curiosity about a worthless
letter.'

This roused my temper. When a young-lady
is told that she is vulgar, if she has any
self-conceit — I mean self-respect — she feels
insulted. I said something sharp in my turn.
It was in the way of argument. I do not
know how it may be with other young persons,
I never reason so well myself as when I am
angry.

You call it a worthless letter,' I said, ' and
yet you think it worth preserving.'

Have you nothing more to say to me than
that T he asked.

Nothing more,' I answered.

He chased ao-ain. After havens looked
unaccountably angry, he now looked unaccountably
relieved.

'I will soon satisfy you,' he said, 'that I
have a good reason for preserving a worthless
letter. Miss Chance, my dear, is not a woman
to be trusted. If she saw her advantage in
making a bad use of my reply, I am afraid she
would not hesitate to do it. Even if she is
no longer living', I don't know into what vile
hands my letter may not have fallen, or how it
might be falsified for some wicked purpose.
Do you see now how a correspondence may
become accidentally important, though it is of
no value in itself ?'

I could say ' Yes ' to this with a safe conscience.


But there were some perplexities still left in

my mind. It seemed strange that Miss Chance
should (apparently) have submitted to the
severity of my whither's reply. ' I should have
thought,' I said to him, ' that she would have
sent you another impudent letter — or perhaps
have insisted on seeing you, and using her
tongue instead of her pen.'

She could do neither the one nor the other,
Helena. Miss Chance will never find out my
address again ; I have taken good care of that.'

He spoke in a loud voice, with a flushed
face — as if it was quite a triumph to have prevented
this woman from discovering his address.
What reason could he have for being so anxious
to keep her away from him ? Could I venture
to conclude that there was a mystery in the
life of a man so blameless, so truly pious ? It
shocked one even to think of it.

There was a silence between us, to which
the housemaid offered a welcome interruption.
Dinner was ready.

He kissed me before we left the room. ' One
word more, Helena,' lie said, ' and I have
done. Let there be no more talk between us
about Elizabeth Chance.'

Helena's diary.

Miss Jillgall joined us at the dinner-table, in a
state of excitement, carrying a book in her hand.

I am inclined, on reflection, to suspect that
she is quite clever enough to have discovered
that I hate her — and that many of the aggravating
things she says and does are assumed,
out of retaliation, for the purpose of making
me angry. That ugly face is a double face,
or I am much mistaken.

To return to the dinner-table. Miss Jillgall
addressed herself, With an air of playful penitence,
to my father.

Dear cousin. I hope T have not done wrong.
Helena left me all bv myself. AVhen I had

finished darning' the curtain, I really didn't
know what to do. So I opened all the bedroom
doors upstairs and looked into the
rooms. In the bis; room with two beds
—oh, I am so ashamed — I found this book.
release look at the first page.'

My father looked at the title-page : — ' Doctor
Watts's Hymns. Well, Selina, what is thereto
be ashamed of in this 7

Oh, no ! no ! It's the wrong page. Do
look at the other page — the one that comes
first before that one.'

My patient father turned to the blank page.

Ah,' he said quietly, ' my other daughter's
name is written in it — the daughter whom you
have not yet seen. Well V

Miss Jillgall clasped her hands distractedly.
It's my ignorance I'm so ashamed of Dear
cousin, forgive me, enlighten me. I don't know
how to pronounce your other daughter's name.
Do you call her Euneece ?'

The dinner was getting cold. I was provoked
into saying : ' Xo, we don't.'

She had evidently not forgiven me for
leaving her by herself. ' Pardon me, Helena,
when I want information I don't apply to }'oa;
I sit, as it were, at the feet of your learned
father. Dear cousin, is it '

Even my father declined to wait for his
dinner any longer. ' Pronounce it as you
like, Selina. Here we say Eunice — with the
accent on the " i ' and with the final ' e ' sounded:
Eu-ni-see. Let me give you some soup.'

Miss Jillgall groaned. * Oh, how difficult
it seems to be I (suite beyond my poor brains !
I shall ask the dear girl's leave to call her
Euneece. What very strong soup ! Isn't it
rather a waste of meat ? Give me a little
more, please.'

I discovered another of Miss Jillgall's peculiarities.
Her appetite was enormous, and her
ways were greedy. You heard her eat her

soup. She devoured the food on her plate
with her eyes before she put it into her mouth ;
and she criticised our English cookery in the
most impudent manner, under pretence of asking
humbly how it was done. There was,
however, some temporary compensation for
this. We had less of her talk while she was
eating her dinner.

With the removal of the cloth, she recovered
the use of her tongue ; and she hit on the one
subject of all others which proves to be the
sorest trial to my father's patience.

And now, dear cousin, let us talk of your
other daughter, our absent Euneece. I do so
long to see her. When is she coming back ?'

In a few days more.'

How glad I am ! And, do tell me — which
is she ? Your oldest girl or your youngest T

Neither the one nor the other, Selina.'

Oh, my head ! my head ! This is even
worse than the accent on the ' i ' and the finale.'

Stop I I am cleverer than I tlioui;lir I
was. You mean that the girls are twas. Arc
they both so exactly like each other that 1
shan't know which is which ? What fun I'

When the subject of our ages was unluckily
started at Mrs. Staveley's, I had slipped out
of the difficulty easily by assuming the character
of the eldest sister — an example of ready tact
which my dear stupid Eunice doesn't understand.
In my father's presence, it is needless
to say that I kept silence, and left it to hiui.
I was sorry to be obliged to do this. 0\vin<i:
to his sad state of health, he is easily irritated
especially by inquisitive strangers.

• I must leave you,' he answered, without
taking' the slightest notice of what Miss Jillu'all
had said to him. ' sly work is waiting forme.'


She stopped him on his way to the door.
Oh. tell me — can't 1 help you ?'

• Thank you ; no.'

Well — but tell me one thing. Am I right
about the twins ?'

You are wrono\'

Miss Jillgall's demonstrative hands flew up
into the air again, and expressed the climax of
astonishment by quivering over her head.
This is positively maddening,' she declared.
What does it mean ?'

• Take my advice, cousin. Don't attempt to
find out what it means.'

He left the room ]\Iiss Jillgall appealed tome.
I imitated my whither's wise brevity of
expression : ' Sorrj^ to disappoint you, Selina ;
I know no more about it than you do. Come
upstairs.'

Every step of the way up to the drawing-room
was marked by a protest or an inquiry.
Did I expect her to believe that I couldn't say
which of us was the elder of the two ? that I
didn't really know what my father's motive
was for this extraordinary mystification ? that

my sister and I had sul)iiutted to be robbed,
as it were, of our own ages, and had not insisted
on discovering which of us lead come into the
world first ? that our friends had not put
an end to this sort of thing by comparing us
personally, and discovering which was the
elder sister by investigation of our faces ?
To all this I replied : First, that I did certainly
expect her to believe whatever I might say :
Secondly, that what she was pleased to call
the ' mystification ' had begun when we were
both children ; that habit had made it familiar
to us in the course of years ; and, above all,
that we were too fond of our good father to
ask for explanations which we knew bv experience
would distress him : Thirdly, that
friends did try to discover, by personal examination,
which was the elder sister, and
differed perpetually in their conclusions ; also
that we had amused ourselves by trying the same
experiment before our looking - glasses, and

that Eunice thoiig-lit Helena was the oldest,
and Helena thought Eunice was the oldest :
Fourthly (and finally), that the Reverend
Mr. Gracedieu's cousin lead better drop the
subject, unless she was bent on making
her presence in the house unendurable to the
Reverend Mr. Gracedieu himself.

I write it with a sense of humiliation ;
Miss Jillgall listened attentively to all I had
to say — and then took me completely by surprise.
This inquisitive, meddlesome, restless,
impudent woman suddenly transformed herself
into a perfect model of amiability and decorum.
She actually said she agreed with me, and was
much obliged for mv Good advice !

A stupid young woman, in my place, would
have discovered that this was not natural, and
that bliss Jillgall was presenting herself to mein
disguise, to reach some secret end of her
own. I am not a stupid young woman; I
ought to have had at my service penetration

enough to see through and through cousin
Senna. AVell I cousin Selina was an impenetrable
mystery to me.

The one thing to be done was to watch her.
I was at least sly enough to take up a look,
and pretend to be reading it. How contemptible
!

She looked round the room, and discovered
our pretty writing-table : a present to my
father from his congregation. After a little
consideration, she sat down to write a letter.

AVhen does the post go out ?' she asked.

I mentioned the hour ; and she began her
letter. Before she could have Written more
than the first two or three lines, she turned
round on her seat, and beu'an talking; tome.


Do you like writing letters, mv dear ?'

1/ CD ' 1/

Yes — but then I have not many letters to
write.'
- ' Only a few friends, Helena, but those^iew
VOL. I. 14

worthy to be loved ? sly own case exactly.
Has your father told you of my troubles ?
Ah, I am glad of that. It spares me the sad
necessity of confessing what I have suffered.
Oh, how good my friends, my few friends,
were to me in that dull little Belgian town !
One of them was generosity personified — ah,
she had suffered, too! A vile husband who
had deceived and deserted her. Oh, the men !
When she heard of the loss of my little
fortune, that noble creature got up a subscription
for me, and went round herself to
collect. Think of what I owe to her! Ought
I to let another day pass without writing to
my benefactress ? Am I not bound in gratitude
to make her happy in the knowledge of
my happiness — I mean the refuge opened tome
in this hospitable house ?'

She twisted herself back again to the writings
and went on with her letter.

I have not attempted to conceal my stupidity.

Let me now record a partial recovery
of my intelligence.

It was not to be denied that bliss Jillgall
had discovered a good reason for writing to
her friend ; but I was at a loss to understand
why she should have been so anxious to mention
the reason. AVas it possible — after the
talk which had passed between us — that she
had something mischievous to say in her
letter, relating to my father or to me ? AVas
she afraid I might suspect this ? And had
she been so communicative for the purpose of
leading my suspicions astray ? These were
vague guesses; bat, try as I might, I could
arrive at no clearer view of what was passing
in Miss Jillirairs mind. What would I not
have given to be able to look over her shoulder,
without discovery !

She finished her letter, and put the address,
and closed the envelope. Then she turned
round towards me again.

M— 2

Have you got a foreign postage stamp,
dear ?'

If I could look at nothing else, I was resolved
to look at her envelope. It was only
necessary to go to the study, and to apply to
my father. I returned with the foreign stamp,
and I stuck it on the envelope with my own
hand.

There was nothing to interest me in the
address, as I ought to have foreseen, if I had
not been too much excited for the exercise of
a little common sense. Miss Jill2:airs wonderful
friend was only remarkable by her ugly'
foreign name — Mrs. Texbeuggex.

EUNICE S DIARY.

Here I am, writing my history of myself,
once more, by my own bedside. Some unexpected
events have happened while I have
been away. One of them is the absence of
my sister.

Helena has left home on a visit to a northern
town bv the seaside. She is stains: in the
house of a minister (one of Papa's friends),
and is occupying a position of dignity in which
I should certainly lose my head. The minister
and his wife and daughters propose to set up a
Girls' Scripture Class, on the ]plan devised by
Papa; and they are at a loss, poor helpless

people, to know low to begin. Helena has
volunteered to set the think; o-oino'. And there
she is now, advising"; everybody, governing'
everybody, encouraging; everybody — issuing"
directions, finding' flight, regarding: merit —
oh, dear, let me put it all in one word, and
sav: thoroughly enjoying herself.

Another event has happened, relating to
Papa. It so distressed me that I even forgot
to think of Philip — for a little while.

Travelling by railway (I supj^iose because I
am not used to it) gives me the headache.
When I got to our station here, I thought it
would do me more good to walk home than to
ride in the noisy omnibus. Half wav between
the railway and the town, I met one of the
doctors. He is a member of our congregation
; and he it was who recommended Papa,
some time since, to give up his work as a
minister and take a long holiday in foreign
parts.

I am glad to have met with you,' the
doctor said. ' Your sister, I find, is away on
a visit ; and I want to speak to one of you
about your father.'

It seemed that he had been observing Papa,
in chapel, from what he called his own medical
point of view. He did not conceal from me
that he had drawn conclusions which made
him feel uneasy. ' It may be anxiety,' he
said, ' or it may be overwork. In either case,
your father is in a state of nervous derangement,
which is likely to lead to serious results
unless he takes the advice that I ^'ave him
when he last consulted me. There must be
no more hesitation about it. Be careful not
to irritate him — but remember that lie must
rest. You and your sister have some influence
over him; he Avon't listen to me.'

Poor dear Papa ! I did see a change in him
for the worse — though I had only been away
for so short a time.

AVhen I put my arms round bis neck, and
kissed him, lie turned pale, and then flushed up
suddenly; the tears came into his eyes. Oh,
it was hard to follow the doctor's advice, and
not to cry too ; but I succeeded in controlling
myself. I sat on bis knee, and made him tell
me all that I have written here about Helena.
This led to our talking next of the new lady,
who is to live with us as a member of the
family. I began to feel less uneasy at the
prospect of being introduced to this stranger,
when I heard that she was Papa's cousin. And
when he mentioned her name, and saw how it
amused me, his poor worn face brightened into
a smile. ' Go and find her,' he said, ' and
introduce yourself J want to hear, Eunice, if
you and my cousin are likely to get on well
together.'

The servants told me that Miss Jillgall was
in the garden.

I searched here, there, and everywhere, and

failed to find her. Tic place was so quiet, it
looked so deliciously pure and bri^^'ht, alter
smoky' dreary London, that I sat down at the
further end of the garden, and let my mind
take me back to Philip. What was he doing
at that moment, Avhile I was thinking of him?
Perhaps he was in the company of other young
ladies, who drew all his thoughts away to
themselves? Or perhaps he was writing to his
father in Ireland, and saying something kindly
and prettily about me? Or perhaps he was
looking forward, as anxiously as I do, to our
meeting next week.

I have had my plans, and I have changed
my plans.

On the railway journey, I thought I would
tell Papa at once of the new happiness which
seems to have ]put a new life into me. It
would have been delightful to make my confession
to that first and best and dearest of
friends ; but my meeting with the doctor spoilt

it all. After what be had said to me, I discovered
a risk. If I ventured to tell Papa that
my heart was set on a young gentleman who
was a stranger to him, could I be sure that he
would receive my confession favourably?
There was a chance that it might irritate him
and the fault would then be mine of doing
what I had been warned to avoid. It might
be safer in every way to wait till Philip paid
his visit, and he and Papa had been introduced
to each other and charmed with each other.
Could Helena herself have arrived at a wiser
conclusion? I declare I felt proud of my own
discretion.

In this enjoyable frame of mind, I was disturbed
by a woman's voice. The tone was a
tone of distress, and the words reached my ears
from the end of the garden : ' Please, Miss, let
me in.'

A shrubbery marks the limit of our little bit
of pleasure-ground. On the other side of it.

there is a cottage standing' on the edc^e of the
common. The most good-natured woman in
the AvorkI lives here. She is our Laundress —
married to a stiij^tid young fellow named Molly,
and blest with a plump baby as sweet-tempered
as herself. Thinking it likely that the piteous
voice which had disturbed me might be the
voice of ]airs. wholly, I was astonished to hear
her appealing to anybody (perhaps to me?) tolet
her in.' So I passed through the shrubbery,
wondering whether the gate had been
locked during my absence in London. Xo ; it
Alas as easy to open as ever.

The cottage door was not closed.

I saw our amiable laundress in the passage,
on her knees, trying to open an inner door
which seemed to be locked. She had her eye
at the keyhole ; and, once again, she called
out : ' Please, Miss, let me in.' I waited to
see if the door would be opened — nothing
happened. I waited again, to hear if some

person inside would answer — nobody spoke.
Bat somebody, or something, made a sound
of splashing water on the other side of the
door.

I showed myself, and asked what Alas the
matter.

]airs. I\Iolly looked at me helplessly. She
said : ' Miss Eunice, it's the baby.'

What has the baby done ?' I inquired.

Mrs. Molly got on her feet, and whispered in
my ear : ' You know he's a fine child ?'

Yes.

Well, Miss, he's bewitched a lady.'

'What lady?'

Miss JillgalL'

The very person I had been trying to find !
I asked where she was.

The laundress pointed dolefully to the locked
door : ' In there.'

And where is sour baby?'

The poor woman still pointed to the door :

^ I'm bcii'inniD^: to doubt, Miss, ^vlicthcr it is
my baby.'

Nonsense, ]airs. loll y. If it isn't yours,
whose baby can it be?'

Miss Illo-all's.'

Her puzzled face made tins singular reply
more funny still. The splashing of water on
the other side of the door beu'an aijain. ' What
is Miss Jillo'all doing; now?' I said.

AVashino' the baby, Miss. A week ao-o,
she came in here, one morning ; very pleasant
and kind, I must own. She found me putting
on the baby's things. She says : '" AVhat a
cherub!" which I took as a compliment. She
says : '• I shall call again tomorrow." She
called again so early that she found the baby
in his crib. " You be a good soul," she says,
and go about \'our work, and leave the child
to me." I says : '• Yes, bliss, but please to
wait till I've made him fit to be seen." She
says : 'that's just what I mean to do myself"

I stared ; and I think any other person would
have done the same in my place. '' If there's
one thing more than another I enjoy," she says,
'" it's making myself useful. ]airs. wholly, I've
taken a fancy to your boy-haby/' she says,
and I mean to make myself useful to liinir
If you will believe it, Miss Jillgall has only let
me have one opportunity of putting my own
child tidy. She was late this morning, and I
got my chance, and had the boy on my lap,
drying him — when in she burst like a blast of
wind, and snatched the baby away from me.
"This is your nasty temper," she says; "I
declare I'm ashamed of you !" And there she
is, with the door locked against me, washing
the child all over a^'ain herself. Twice I've
knocked, and asked her to let me in, and can't
even get an answer. They do say there's luck
in odd numbers ; suppose I try again?' sirs.
Molly knocked, and the proverb proved to be
true ; she got an answer from Miss Jillgall at

lust : ' If you don't be quiet and go away, you
shan't have the baby back at all AVho could
help it ? — I burst out laughing. Miss Jillgall
(as I supposed from the tone of her voice) took
severe notice of this act of impropriety.
AVho's that laughing?' she called out ; 'give
yourself a name.' I gave my name. The door
was instantly thrown open with a bang. Papa's
cousin appeared, in a dishevelled state, with
splashes of soap and water all over her. She
held the child in one arm, and she threw the
other arm round my neck. ' Dearest Euneece,
I have been longing to see you. How do you
like Our baby?'

To the curious story of my introduction to
Miss Jillgall, I ought perhaps to add that I
have got to be friends with Lier already. I am
the friend of anybody who amuses me. What
will Helena say when she reads this?

EUNICE S DIARY.

WiiEX people are interested in some event that*
is coming, do they find the dull days, passed
in waiting for it, days which they are not able
to remember when they look back ? This is
my unfortunate case. Night after night, I
have gone to bed without so much as opening
my Journal. There was nothing worth
writing about, nothing that I could recollect,
until the postman came to-day. I ran downstairs,
when I heard his ring at the bell, and
stopped ^laria on her way to the stud'. There,
among Papa's usual handful of letters, was a
letter for me.

Dear Miss Eunice,

^P ^P *J^ "Jr ^

Yours ever truly.'

I quote the passages in Philip's letter which
most deeply interest me — I am his dear Miss ;
and he is mine ever truly. The other part of
the letter told me that he had been detained in
London, and he lamented it. At the end was
a delightful announcement that he was coming
to me by the afternoon train. I ran upstairs
to see how I looked in the glass.

My first feeling was regret. For the
thousandth time, I was obliged to acknowledge
that I was not as pretty as Helena. But this
passed off. A cheering reflection occurred tome.
Philip would not have found, in my
sister's face, what seems to have interested him
in my face. Besides, there is my figure.

The pity of it is that I am so ignorant about

some things. If I had been allowed to read

novels, I might (judging by what Papa said
VOL. I. 15

against them in one of his sermons) have felt
sure of my own attractions; I might even have
understood what Philip really thought of me.
However, my mind was quite unexpectedly set
at ease on the subject of my figure. The
manner in which it happened was so amusing
at least, so amusing to me — that I cannot
resist mentioning it.

My sister and I are forbidden to read newspapers,
as well as novels. But the teachers at
the Girl's Scripture Class are too old to be
treated in this way. When the morning lessons
were over, one of them was readings the newspaper
to the other, in the empty school-room ;
I being in the passage outside, putting on my
cloak.

It was a report of * an application made to
the magistrates by the lady of his worship the
Ma^'or.' Hearing this, I stopped to listen.
The lady of his worship (what a funny way of
describing a man's wife!) is reported to be a

little too fond of notoriety, and to like hearing-tie
sound of her own voice on public occasions.
But this is only my writing; I had better get
back to the report. * In her address to the
magistrates, the Mayoress stated that she had
seen a disgusting photograph in the shop window
of a stationer, lately established in the
town. She desired to bring this person within
reach of the law, and to have all his copies of
the shameless photograph destroyed. The
usher of the court was thereupon sent to purchase
the photograph.' — On second thoughts, I
prefer going back to my own writing again ; it
is so uninteresting to copy other people's
writing. Two of the magistrates were doing
justice. They looked at the photograph — and
what did it represent? The famous statue
called the Venus de' Medici! One of the
magistrates took this discovery indignantly.
He was shocked at the i^-ross ignorance which
could call the classic ideal of beauty and grace

15— 2

a disgusting work. The other one made polite
allowances. He thought the lady was much
to be pitied ; she was evidently the innocent
victim of a neglected education. Mrs. Mayor
left the court in a rage, telling the justices she
knew where to get law. ' I shall expose
Venus,' she said, 'to the Lord Chancellor.'

When the Scripture Class had broken up for
the day, duty ought to have taken me home.
Curiosity led me astray — I mean, led me to
the stationer's window.

There I found our two teachers, absorbed in
the photograph ; having got to the shop first
by a short cut. They seemed to think I had
taken a liberty when I joined them. ' We are
here,' they were careful to explain, ' to get a
lesson in the ideal of beauty and grace.' There
was quite a little crowd of townsfolk collected
before the window. Some of them giggled ;
and some of them wondered whether it was
taken from the life. For my own part, gratitude

to Venus oLliires me to own that she
effected a great improvement in the state of my
mind. She encouraged me. If that stumpy
little creature — with no waist, and oh, such
uncertain legs! — represented the ideal of
beauty and grace, I had reason indeed to be
satisfied with my own figure, and to think it
quite possible that my sweetheart's favourable
opinion of me was not ill-bestowed.

I was at the bedroom window when the time
approached for Philip's arrival.

(suite at the far end of the road, I discovered
him. He was on foot : he walked like a Kimr.
Xot that I ever saw a Ivini'', but I have univ
ideal. Ah, what a smile lie gave me, when I
made him look up by waving nn' handkerchief
out of the window I ' Ask for Papa,' I
whispered as he ascended the house-steps.

The next thing to do was to Avait, as
patiently as I could, to be sent for downstairs.
Maria came to me in a state of excitement.

*01i, Miss, what a handsome young gentleman,

and how beautifully dressed! Is he ?'

Instead of finishing what she had to say, she
looked at me with a sly smile. I looked at
her with a sly smile. AYe were certainly a
couple of fools. But, dear me, how happy
sometimes a fool can be !

My enjoyment of that delightful time was
checked when I went into the drawing-room.


I had expected to see Papa's face made
beautiful b}' his winning smile. He was not
only' serious ; he actually seemed to be ill at
ease when he looked at me. At the same time,
I saw nothing' to make me conclude that
Philip had produced an unfavourable impression.
The truth is, we were all three on our
best behaviour, and we showed it. Philip had
brought with him a letter from Airs. Staveley,
introducing him to Papa. AVe spoke of the
Staveleys, of the weather, of the Cathedral — •

and then there seemed to be nothing more left
to talk about.

In the silence that followed — what a dreadful
thing silence is I — Papa was sent for to see
somebody who had called on business. He
made his excuses in his sweetest manner, but
still seriously. AVhen he and Philip had
shaken hands, would he leave us together?
No ; he waited. Poor Philip had no choice
but to take leave of me. Papa then went outby
the door that led into his study, and I was
left alone.

Can any words say how wretched I felt ?

I had hoped so much from that first meeting
and where were my hopes now ? A profane
wish that I had never been born was finding
its way into my mind, when the door of the
room was opened softly, from the side of the
passage. Maria, dear ]varia, the best friend
I have, peeped in. She whispered : ' Go into
the garden, ]\Iiss, and you will find somebody

there who is dyino- to see yoa. Mind you let
him out by the shrubbery gate.' I squeezed
her hand ; I asked if she had tried the shrubbery
gate with a sweetheart of her own.
Hundreds of times, Miss.'

AVas it wrong for me to go to Philip in the
garden ? Oh, there is no end to objections !
Perhaps I did it because it was wrong. Perhaps
I had been kept on my best behaviour too
long' for human endurance.

o

How sadly disappointed he looked ! And
how rashly he had placed himself just where
he could be seen from the back windows ! I
took his arm and led him to the end of the
garden. There, we were out of the reach
of inquisitive eyes ; and there we sat down
together, under the big mulberry tree.

Oh, Eunice, your father doesn't like me!'
Those were his first words. In justice to
Papa (and a little for my own sake too) I
told him he was quite wrong. I said : ' Trust

my father's goodness, trust his kindness, as
I do.'

He made no reply. His silence was sufficiently
expressive ; he looked at me fondly.

I may be wrong, but fond looks surely
require an acknowledgment of some kind ?
Is a young woman guilty of boldness who
only follows her impulses ? I slipped my
hand into his hand. Philip seemed to like it.
We returned to our conversation.

He began : ' Tell me, dear, is Mr. Gracedieu
always as serious as he is to-day ?'

'Oh no!'

AVhen he takes exercise, does he ride ? or
does he walk ?'

Papa always walks.'

By himself ?'

Sometimes by himself Sometimes with
me. Do you want to meet him when he goes
out ?'

Yes.

When he is out with me ?'
Xo. When lie is out by himself.'
Was it possible to tell me more plainly that
I was not wanted ? I did my best to express
indignation by snatching my hand away from
him. He was completely taken by surprise.
Eunice ! don't you understand me ?'
I was as stupid and as disagreeable as I
could possibly be : ' Xo ; I don't !'

Then let me help you,' he said, with a
patience which I had not deserved.

Uj) to that moment I had been leaning
against the back of a garden chair. Something
else now got between me and my chair.
It stole round my waist — it held me gently —
it strengthened its hold — it improved my
temper — it made me fit to understand him.
All done by what ? Only an arm !
Philip went on :

I want to ask your father to do me the
greatest of all favours — and there is no time

to lose. Every day, I expect to get a letter
which may recall me to Ireland.'

]\Iy heart sank at this horrid prospect ; and
in some mysterious wa' my head must have
felt it too. I mean that I found my head
resting on his shoulder. He went on :

How am I to get my opportunity of
speaking to ]mr. Gracedieu ? I mustn't call
on him again as soon as tomorrow or next
day. But I might meet him, out walking
alone, if you will tell me how to do it. A
note to my hotel is all I want. Don't tremble,
my sweet. If you are not present at the
time, do you see any objection to my owning
to your father that I love you ?'

I felt his delicate consideration for me — I
did indeed feel it gratefully. If he only spoke
first, how well I should get on with Papa
afterwards ! The prospect before me was
exquisitely encouraging. I agreed with
Philip in everything ; and I waited (how

eagerly was only known to myself) to hear
what he would say to me next. He prophesied
next :

AVhen I have told yom father that I love
you, he will expect me to tell him something
else. Can you o^uess what it is ?'

If I had not been confused, perhaps I
might have found the answer to this. As it
was, I left him to reply to himself. He did
it, in words which I shall remember as longs
I live.

Dearest Eunice, when your father has
heard my confession, he will suspect that
there is another confession to follow it — he
Avill want to know if you love me. sly angel,
will my hopes be your hopes too, when I
answer him ?'

AVhat there was in this to make my heart
beat so violently' that I felt as if I was being-stifled,
is more than I can tell. He leaned so
close to me, so tenderly, so delightfully close,

that our faces nearly toucliecl. He whispered :
Say you love me, m a kiss !'

His lips touched my lips, pressed them,
dwelt on them — oli, how can I tell of it !
Some new enchantment of feeling ran deliciously
through and through me. I forgot
my own self; I only knew of one person in
the world. He was master of my lips ; he
was master of my heart. When he whispered :
Kiss me,' I kissed him. AVhat a moment
it was ! A faintness stole over me ; I felt as
if I was going to die some exquisite death; I
laid myself back away from him — I was notable
to speak. There was no need for it ; my
thoughts and his thoughts were one — he
knew that I was Cjuite overcome ; he saw
that he must leave me to recover myself alone.
I pointed to the shrubbery gate. AVe took
one long; last look at each other for that dav ;
the trees hid him ; I was left by myself

Eunice's diary,

How long a time passed before my composure
came back to me, I cannot remember now.
It seemed as if I was waiting through some
interval of my life that was a mystery to
myself. I was content to wait, and feel the
light evening air in the garden wafting happiness
over me. And all this had come from a
kiss ! I can call the time to mind when I
used to wonder why people made such a fuss
about kissing.

I had been indebted to ^laria for my first
taste of Paradise. I was recalled by Maria to
the world that I had been accustomed to live

in ; the Avorld that was beginning to fade away
in my memory already. She had been sent to
the garden in search of me ; and she had
a word of advice to offer, after noticing: mv
face when I stepped out of the shadow of the
tree : ' Try to look more like yourself, Miss,
before you let them see you at the tea-table.'


Papa and Miss Jillgall were sitting together
talking, when I opened the door. They left off
when they saw me ; and I supposed, quite
correctly as it turned out, that I had been one
of the subjects in their course of conversation,
sly poor father seemed to be sadly anxious
and out of sorts. Miss Jillgall, if I had been
in the humour to enjoy it, would have been
more amusing than ever. One of her funny
little eyes persisted in winking at me ; and
her heavy foot had something to say to my
foot, under the table, which meant a great

deal perhaps, but which only succeeded in
hurting me.

My father left us ; and Miss Jillgall explained
herself.

I know, dearest Euneece, that we have
only been acquainted for a day or two, and
that I ought not perhaps to have expected you
to confide in me so soon. Can I trust you
not to betray me if I set an example of confidence
? Ah, I see I can trust you ! And,
my dear, I do so enjoy telling secrets to a
friend. Hush! Your father, your excellent
father, has been talking to me about young
Mr. Dunboyne.'

She provokingly stopped there. I entreated
her to ofo on. She invited me to sit on her
knee. ' I want to whisper,' she said. It was
too ridiculous — but I did it. Miss Jillgall's
whisper told me serious news.

The minister has some reason, Euneece,
for disapproving of Mr. Dunboyne; but, mind

this, I don't think lie has a Lad opinion of the
young man himself. He is o-oinu' to return
Mr. Dunboyne's call. Oh, I do so hate formality
; I reals can't go on talking of Mr.
Dunboyne. Tell me his Christian name. Ah,
what a noble name ! How I long to be useful
to him ! To-morrow, my dear, after the one
o'clock dinner your Papa will call on Philip,
at his hotel. I hope he won't be out, just at
the wrong time.'

I resolved to prevent that unlucky accident
by writing to Philip. If Miss Jillgall would
have allowed it, I should have bci^'un mv letter
at once. But she had more to say ; and she
was stronger than I was, and still kept me on
her knee.

It all looks brought enough so far, doesn't
it, dear sister ? Will you let me be your second
sister ? I do so love you, Euneece. Thank
you ! thank you I But the gloomy side of
the picture is to come next. The minister —

YOL. I. 16

no ! now I am your sister I must call him
Papa; it makes me feel so young again!
Well, then, Papa has asked me to be your
companion whenever you go out. " Euneece
is too Young; and too attractive to be walking
about this great town (in Helena's absence)
by herself." That was how he put it. Slyly
enough, if one may say so of so good a man.
And he used your sister (didn't he ?) as a
kind of excuse. I wish your sister was as
nice as you are. However, the point is, why
am I to be your companion ? Because, dear
child, you and your young gentleman are not
to make appointments and to meet each other
alone. Oh, yes — that's it ! Your father is
quite willing to return Philip's call ; he proposes
(as a matter of civility to Mrs. Staveley)
to ask Philip to dinner; but, mark my words,
he doesn't mean to let Philip have you for his
wife.'

I jumped off her lap ; it was horrible to

hear her. ^ Oh,' I said, ' can you be right
about it ?'

Miss Jillgall jumped up too. She lias
foreign ways of shrugging her shoulders and
making signs with her hands. On this occasion
she Laid both hands on the upper part of
her dress, just below her throat, and mysteriously
shook her head.

AVhen my views are directed by my affections
she assured me, ' I never see wrong.
My bosom is my strong point.'

She has no bosom, poor soul — but I understood
what she meant. It failed to have any
soothing effect on my feelings. I felt grieved
and angry and puzzled, all in one. Miss
Illo-all stood looking' at me, with her hands
still on the place Adhere her bosom was supposed
to be. She made my temper hotter
than ever.

I mean to marry Philip,' I said.

16—2

^ Certainly, my dear Euneece. But please
don't be so fierce about it.' ■

'If my father does really object to my
marriage.' I went on, ' it must be because be
dislikes Philip. There can be no other

reason.'

Oh, yes, dear — there can.'

What is the reason, then ?'

That, my sweet girl, is one of the things
that we have got to find out.'

*****

The post of this morning brought a letter
from my sister. AVe were to expect her
return by the next day's train. This was
good news. Philip and I might stand in
need of clever Helena's help, and we might be
sure of o'ettinu' it now.

In writing to Philip, I had asked him to let
me hear how Papa and he had got on at the
hotel.

I won't say how often I consulted my watch,

or how often I looked out of the window for a
man with a letter in his hand. It will be
better to get on at once to the discouraging
end of it, when the report of the interview
reached me at last. Twice, Philip had attempted
to ask for my hand in marriage — and
twice my father had ' deliberately, obstinately '
(Philip's own words) changed the subject.
Even this was not all. .\s if he was determined
to shoal that Miss Jillgall was perfectly
right, and I perfectly wrong. Papa
(civil to Philip as long as he did not talk of
Me) had asked him to dine with us, and Philip
had accepted the invitation !

What were we to think of it ? What were
we to do ?

I wrote back to my dear love (so cruelly
used) to tell him that Helena was expected to
return on the next day, and that her opinion
would be of the greatest value to both of us.
In a postscript, I mentioned the hour at which

we were going to the station to meet my sister.
When I say ' we,' I mean Miss Jillgall as well
as myself.

* *-::j *

We found him waiting for us at the railway.
I am afraid he resented Papa's incomprehensible
resolution not to give him a
hearing. He was silent and sullen. I could
not conceal that to see this state of feeling:
distressed me. He showed how truly he deserved
to be loved — he begged my pardon,
and he became his own sweet self again
directly. I am more determined to marry
him than ever.

When the train entered the station, all the
carriages where full. I went one way, thinking
I had seen Helena. ]ilis3 Jillgall went the
other way, under the same impression. Philip
was a little way behind me.

Xot seeing my sister, I had just turned
back, when a young man jumped out of a

carriage, opposite Philip, and recognised and
shook hands with him. I was just near enough
to hear the stranger say, ' Look at the girl in
our carriage.' Philip looked. ' AVhat a charming
creature I' he said, and then checked himself
for fear the young lady should hear him.
She had just handed her travelling bag and
Avraps to a porter, and was getting out. Philip
politely offered his hand to help her. She
looked my way. The charming creature of
my sweetheart's admiration was, to my infinite
amusement, Helena herself.

Helena's diary.

The clay of my return marks an occasion
which I am not likely to forget. Hours have
passed since I came home — and my agitation
still forbids the thought of repose.

As I sit at my desk I see Eunice in bed,
sleeping peacefully, exce2:>t when she is murmuring
enjoyment in some happy dream. To
what end has my sister been advancing blindfold,
and (who knows ?) dragging me with
her, since that disastrous visit to our friends
in London ? Strange that there should be a
leaven of superstition in mis nature! Strange
that I should feel fear of something — I hardly
know what I

I have met somewhere (perhaps in my
historical reading) with the expression : ' A
chain of events Was I at the beginning' of
that chain, when I entered the railway carriage
on my journey home ?

Among the other passengers there was a
young gentleman, accompanied by a lady who
proved to be his sister. They were both well-bred
people. The brother evidently admired
me, and did his best to make himself agreeable.
Time passed quickly in pleasant talk, and my
vanity was flattered — and that was all.

]\Iy fellow-travellers were going on to
London. AVhen the train reached our station
the young lady sent her brother to buy some
fruit, which she saw in the window of the
refreshment room. The first man whom he
encountered on the platform was one of his
friends, to whom he said something which I
failed to hear. AVhen I handed my travelling
bag and my wraps to the porter, and showed

myself at the carriage door, I heard the
friend say : ' What a charming creative !'
Having nothing to conceal in a journal ^vhich
I protect by a lock, I may own that the
stranger's personal appearance struck me, and
that what I felt this time was not flattered
vanity, but stratified pride. He was voun^', he
was remarkably handsome, he was a destine
man.

All this happened in one moment. In the
moment that followed, I fomid myself in
Eunice's arms. That odious person, Miss
Jillo^all, insisted on embracing' me next. And
then I was conscious of an indescribable feeling
of surprise. Eunice presented the '
gentleman to me as a
friend of hers — Mr. Philip Dunboyne.

I had the honour of meeting your sister,'
he said, ' in London, at Mr. Staveley's house.'
He went on to speak easily and gracefully of
the journey I had taken, and of his friend

who had been my fellow-traveller ; and he
attended us to the railway omnibus before he
took his leave. I observed that Eunice had
something to say to him confidentially, before
they parted. This was another example of
my sister's childish character ; she is instantly
familiar with new acquaintances, if she happens
to like them. I anticipated some amusement
from hearing' how she had contrived to establish
confidential relations with a highly-cultivated
man like mr. Dunboyne. But,
while Miss Jillgall was with us, it was just as
well to keep within the limits of common-place
conversation.

Before we got out of the omnibus I had,
however, observed one undesirable result of
my absence from home. Eunice and ]bliss
Jillgall — the latter having, no doubt, finely
flattered the former — appeared to have taken
a strong' liking' to each other.

Two curious circumstances also caught my

attention. I saw a change to, what I call
self-assertion, in my sister's manner; something
seemed to have raised her in her own
estimation. Then, ag-ain, Miss Jilk'all was
not like her customary self. She had delightful
moments of silence ; and when
Mice asked how I liked ]mr. Dunboyne,
she listened to my reply with an appearance
of interest in her ugly face, which was quite a
new revelation in my experience of my father's
cousin.

These little discoveries (after what I had
already observed at the railway station) ought
perhaps to have prepared me for what was to
come, when mv sister and I were alone in our
room. But Eunice, whether she meant to doit
or not, baffled my customary penetration.
She looked as if she had plenty of news to
tell me — with some obstacle in the way of
doing it, which appeared to amuse instead of
annoying"' her. If there is one theodore than

another that I hate, it is being puzzled. I
asked at once if anything' remarkable had
happened during Eunice's visit to London.

She smiled mischievously. ' I have a'ot a
delicious surprise for you, my dear ; and I do
so enjoy prolonging it. Tell me, Helena, what
did you propose we should both do when
we fottnd ourselves at home again ?'

My memory was at flight. Eunice's good
spirits became absolutely boisterous. She
called omit : ' Catch !' and tossed her journal
into my hands, across the whole length of the
room. ' AVe were to read each other's diaries
she said. ' There is mine to l^c^in with.'

Innocent of any suspicion of the true state
of affairs, I began the reading' of Eunice's
journal.

If I had not seen the familiar handwriting,
nothing would have induced me to believe that
a girl brought up in a pious household, the
well-beloved dauiiditer of a distinguished Congregational

Minister, could have written that
shameless record of passions unknown to
young ladies in respectable English life.
What to say, what to do, when I had closed
the book, was more than I felt myself equal to
decide. My wretched sister spared me the
anxiety which I might otherwise have felt.
It was she v^dio first opened her lips, after the
silence that had fallen on us while I was reading.
These were literally the words that
she said :

]\Iy darling, why don't you congratulate
me ?'

Xo argument could have persuaded me, as
this persuaded me, that all sisterly remonstrance
on my part would be completely
thrown away.

My dear Eunice,' I said, ' let me beg you
to excuse me. I am waiting '

There she interrupted me — and, oh, in what
an impudent manner! She took my chin

between her finger and tliiiml), and lifted my
downcast face, and looked at me with an
appearance of eager expectation which I was
quite at a loss to understand.

You have been away from home, too,' slice
said. ' Do I see in this serious face some
astonishing news waiting to overpower me?
Have you found a sweetheart ? Are you
engaged to be married?'

I only put her hand away from me, and
advised her to return to her chair. This
perfectly harmless proceeding seemed absolutely
to frighten her.

Oh, my dear,' she burst out, ' surely you
are not jealous of me?'

There was but one possible reply to this : I
laughed at it. Is Eunice's head turned? She
kissed me !

Xow you laugh,' she said, ' I begin to
understand you again ; I ought to have
known that you are superior to jealousy.

But, do tell iTie, would it be so very wonderful
if other osiris found something: to envy in
my good luck ? Just think of it ! Such a
handsome man, such an agreeable man, such a
clever man, such a rich man — and, not the
least of his merits, by-the-bye, a man who
admires You. Come! if you won't congratulate
me, congratulate yourself on having' such
a brother-in-law in prospect!'

Her head vias turned. I drew the poor
soul's attention compassionately to what I had
said a moment since.

Pardon me, dear, for reminding' you that I
have not yet refused to offer mv congratulations.
I only told you I was waiting.'

For what?'

Waiting, of course, to hear what ni}^
father thinks of your wonderful good luck.'

Tills explanation, offered with the kindest
intentions, produced another change in my
^■erv variable sister. I had extinguished her

good spirits as I might have extinguished a
light. She sat down by me, and sighed in
the saddest manner. The heart must be hard
indeed which can resist the distress of a person
who is dear to ns. I put my arm round her ;
she was becoming once more the Eunice whom
I so dearly loved.

My poor child,' I said, * don't distress yourself
by speaking of it ; I understand. Your
father objects to your marrying Mr. Dun-boyne.'


She shook her head. * I can't exactly say,
Helena, that Papa does that. He only behaves
very strangely.'

Am I indiscreet, dear, if I ask in what
way father's behaviour has surprised you ?'

She was quite willing to enlighten me. It
was a simple little story which, to my mind,
sufficiently explained the strange behaviour
that had puzzled my unfortunate sister.

There could indeed be no doubt that m}

VOL. I. 17

father considered Eunice far too childish in
character, as yet, to undertake the duties of
matrimony. But, with his customary delicacy,
and dread of causing distress to others, he had
deferred the disagreeable duty of communicating
his opinion to Mr. Dunboyne. The
adverse decision must, however, be sooner
or later announced ; and he had arranged to
inflict disappointment, as tenderly as might
be, at his own table.

Considerately leaving Eunice in the enjoyment
of any vain hopes which she may have
founded on the event of the dinner-party, I
passed the evening until supper-time came
in the stud' with my father.

Our talk was mainly devoted to the worthy
people with whom I had been staying, and
-whose new schools I had helped to found.
Not a word was said relating to my sister,
or to mr. Dunboyne. Poor father looked so
sadly weary and ill that I ventured, after what

the doctor had said to Eunice, to hint at
the value of rest and change of scene to an
overworked man. Oh, dear me, he frowned,
and waved the subject away from him impatiently,
with a wan pale hand.

After supper, I made an unpleasant discovery.


Xot having completely finished the unpacking
of my boxes, I left Miss Jillgall
and Eunice in the drawing-room, and went
upstairs. In half an hour I returned, and
found the room empty. AVhat had become of
them ? It was a fine moonlight night ; I
stepped into the back drawing-room, and
looked out of the window. There they were,
walking arm-in-arm with their heads close
together, deep in talk. With my knowledge
of Miss Jillgall, I call this a bad sign.

An odd thought has just come to me. I
wonder what might have happened, if I had
been visiting at Mrs. Staveley's, instead of

17—2

Eunice, and if Mr. Dimboyne had seen me
first.

Absurd ! If I was not too tired to do
anything more, those last lines should be
scratched out.

EUNICE S Diary.

I SAID SO to Miss Jillgali, and I say it again
here. Xothing will induce me to think ill
of Helena.

My sister is a good deal tired, and a little
out of temper after the railway journey. This
is exactly what happened to me when I went
to London. I attribute her refusal to let me
read her journal, after she had read mine,
entirely to the disagreeable consequences of
travelling by railway. Miss Jillgali accounted
for it otherwise, in her own funny manner:
My sweet child, your sister's diary is full
of abuse of poor me.' I humoured the joke:

Dearest Selina, keep a diary of your own,
and fill it with abuse of my sister.' This
seemed to be a droll saying at the time. But
it doesn't look particularly amusing, now it is
smitten down. We had ginger wine at supper,
to celebrate Helena's return. Although I
only drank one glass, I dare say it may have
got into my head.

However that may be, when the lovely
moonlight tempted us into the garden, there
was an end to our jokes. We had something
to talk about which still dwells disagreeably
on my mind.

Miss Jille^all beo^an it.

If I trust you, dearest Euneece, with my
own precious secrets, shall I never, never,
never live to repent it ?'

I told my good little friend that she might
depend on me, provided her secrets did no
harm to any person whom I loved.

She clasped her hands and looked up at the

moon — I can only suppose that her sentiments
overpowered her. She said, very jn-ettily, that
her heart and my heart beat together in
heavenly harmony. It is needless to add
that this satisfied me.

Miss Jillgall's generous confidence in my
discretion v^'as, I am afraid, not rcAvarded as it
ouo'ht to have been. I found her tiresome
at first.

She spoke of an excellent friend (a lady),
who had helped her, at the time when she lost
her little fortune, by raising a subscription
privately to pay the expenses of her return to
England. Her friend's name — not very attractive
to English ears — was Mrs. Tenbruo'2:en ;
the" had first become acquainted under interesting
circumstances. bliss Jillgall happened
to mention that my father was her
only living relative ; and it turned out that
Mrs. TenbrufT-^en was familiar with his name,
and reverenced his fame as a preacher. When

lie had generously received his poor helpless
cousin under his own roof, Miss Jillgall's
gratitude and sense of duty impelled her to
write, and tell Mrs. Tenbruggen how happy
she was as a member of our family.

Let me confess that I beo-an to listen more
attentively when the narrative reached this
point.

I drew a little picture of our domestic
circle here,' Miss Jillgall said, describing her
letter ; ' and I mentioned the mystery in
which Mr. Gracedieu conceals the ages of you
two dear girls. Mrs. Tenbruggen — shall we
shorten her ugly name, and call her Mrs. T. 1
Very well — Mrs. T. is a remarkably clever
woman, and I looked for interesting results, if
she would give her opinion of the mysterious
circumstance mentioned in my letter.'

By this time, I was all eagerness to hear
more.

Has she written to you ?' I asked.

Miss Jillgall looked at me affectionately, and
took the reply out of her pocket.

Listen, Euneece ; and you shall hear her
own words. Thus she writes :

" Your letter, dear Selina, especially interests
me by what it says about the two Miss
Gracious." — Look, dear ; she underlines the
word Two. Why, I can't explain. Can you ?
Ah, I thought not. Well, let us get back to
the letter. My accomplished friend continues
in these terms :

" I can understand the surprise which you
have felt at the strange course taken by their
father, as a means of concealing the difference
which there must be in the ages of these
young ladies. Many years since, I happened
to discover a romantic incident in the life
of your popular preacher, which he has his
reasons, as I suspect, for keeping strictly to
himself If I may venture on a bold guess, I
should say that any person who could discover

which was the oldest of the two daughters,
would be also likely to discover the true
nature of the romance in Mr. Gracedieu's life."
Isn't that very remarkable, Euneece ? You
don't seem to see it — you funny child ! Pray
pay particular attention to what comes next.
These are the closing sentences in my friend's
letter :

•' If you find anything new to tell me which
relates to this interesting subject, direct your
letter as before — provided you write within
a week from the present time. Afterwards,
my letters will be received by the English
physician whose card I enclose. You will be
pleased to hear that my professional interests
call me to London at the earliest moment that
I can spare." — There, dear child, the letter
comes to an end. I dare say you wonder what
Mrs. T. means, when she alludes to her
professional interests ?'

^N'o : I was not wondering about anything.

It Inert me to hear of a strange woman exercising
her ingenuity in guessing at mysteries
in Papa's life.

But Miss Jillgall was too eagerly bent on
setting' forth the merits of her friend to notice
this. I now heard that sirs. T.'s marriage
had turned out badly, and that she had been
reduced to earn her own bread. Her manner
of doing this was something quite new to me.
She went about, from one place to another,
curing peo2:>le of all sorts of painful maladies,
by a way she had of rubbing them with her
hands. In Belgium she was called a ' Mas-sense.'
When I asked what this meant in
English, I was told, ' Medical Rubber,' and
that the fame of Mrs. T.'s wonderful cures had
reached some of the medical newspapers published
in London.

After listening (I must say for myself) very
patiently, I was bold enough to own that my
interest in what I had just heard was not

quite so plain to me as I could have wished it
to be.

Miss Jillgall looked shocked at my stupidity.
She reminded me that there was
a mystery in Mrs. Tenbruggen's letter, and a
mystery in Papa's strange conduct towards
Philip. ' Put two and two together, darling
she said ; ' and, one of these days, they may
make four.'

If this meant anything, it meant that the
reason which made Papa keep Helena's age
and my age unknown to everybody but himself,
was also the reason why he seemed to be
so strangely unwilling to let me be Philip's
wife. I really could not endure to take such
a view of it as that, and begged Miss Jill-gall
to drop the subject. She was as kind as
ever.

With all my heart, dear. But don't deceive
yourself — the subject will turn up again
when we least expect it.'

Eunice's diary.

Only two days now, before we give our little
dinner-party, and Philip finds his opportunity
of speaking to Papa. Oh, how I wish that
day had come and gone !

I try not to take gloomy views of things ;
but I am not quite so happy as I had expected
to be when my dear was in the same town
with me. If Papa had encouraged him to call
again, we might have had some precious time
to ourselves. As it is, we can only meet in
the different show-places in the town — with
Helena on one side, and Miss Jillgall on the
other, to take care of us. I do call it cruel

not to let two young people love each other,
without setting third persons to watch them.
If I was Queen of England, I would have
pretty private bowers made for lovers, in
the summer, and nice warm little rooms to
hold two, in the winter. Why not ? What
harm could come of it, I should like to
know !

The cathedral is the place of meeting which
we find most convenient, under the circumstances.
There are delightful nooks and
corners about this celebrated building, in
which lovers can lag behind. If we had been
in Papa's chapel I should have hesitated to
turn it to such a profane use as this ; the
cathedral doesn't so much matter.

Shall I own that I felt my inferiority to
Helena a little keenly ? She could tell Philip
so many things that I should have liked to
tell him first. My clever sister taught him
how to pronounce the name of the bishop who

began building the cathedral ; she led him
over the crypt, and told him how old it was.
He was interested in the crypt ; he talked to
Helena (not to me) of his ambition to write a
work on cathedral architecture in England ;
he made a rough little sketch in his book of
our famous tomb of some Kino Helena knew
the late royal personage's name, and Philip
showed his sketch to her before he showed it
to me. How can I blame him, when I stood
there the picture of stupidity, trying to recollect
something that I might tell him, if it
was only the Dean's name ? Helena might
have whispered it to me, I think. She remembered
it, not I — and mentioned it to
Philip, of course. I kept close by him all the
time, and now and then he gave me a look
which raised my spirits. He might have
given me something better than that — I mean
a kiss — when we had left the cathedral, and
were by ourselves for a moment in a corner

of the Dean's garden. But he missed the
opportunity. Perhaps he was afraid of the
Dean himself coming that way, and happen -
inof to see us. However, I am far from
thinking the worse of Philip. I gave his
arm a little squeeze — and that was better than
nothing.

He and I took a walk along the bank of the
river to-day ; my sister and Miss Jillgall looking
after us as usual.

On our way through the town, Helena
stopped to give an order at a shop. She
asked us to wait for her. That best of good
creatures, Miss Jillgall, whispered in my ear :
Go on by yourselves, and leave me to wait
for her.* Philip interpreted this act of kindness
in a manner which would have vexed me,
if I had not understood that it was one of his
jokes. He said to me : ' Miss Jillgall sees a

chance of annoy! 111^' your sister, and enjoys
the prospect.'

Well, away we went together; it was just
Avhat I Avant ; it gave nie an opportunity
of saying something to Philip, between ourselves.


I could now beg of him, in this interests and
mine, to make the best of himself when he
came to dinner. Clever people, 1 told him,
were people whom Papa liked and admired.
I said : ' Let him see, dear, how clever you
are, and how many things you know — and
you can't imagine what a high place you will
have in his opinion. I hope you don't think
I am taking too much on myself in telling
you how to behave.'

He relieved that doubt in a manner which
I despair of describing. His eyes rested on
me with such a look of exquisite sweetness
and love, that I was obliged to hold bv his arm.
I trembled so with the pleasure of feeling it.

VOL. I. 18

I do sincerely believe,' he said, ' that you
are the most innocent girl, the sweetest, truest
girl that ever lived. I wish I was a better
man, Eunice ; I wish I Alas good enough to be
worthy of you !'

To hear him speak of himself in that way
jarred on me. If such words had fallen from
any other man's lips, I should have been
afraid that he had done something, or thought
something, of which he had reason to feel
ashamed. With Philip this was impossible.

He was eager to walk on rapidly, and to
turn a corner in the path, before we could
be seen. ' I want to be alone with you,' he
said.

I looked back. We were too late ; Helena
and bliss Jillgall had nearly overtaken us.
My sister was on the point of speaking to
Philip, when she seemed to change her mind,
and only looked at him. Instead of looking
at her in return, he kept his eyes cast down.

and drew figures on the pathway with his
stick. I think Helena was out of temper ;
she suddenly turned my way. * ^Vhy didn't
you wait for me ?' she asked.

Philip took her up sharply. ' If Eunice
likes seeing the river better than waiting in
the street he said, ' isn't she free to do as she
pleases ?'

Helena said nothing more ; Thilij) walked
on slowly by himself. Xot knowing what to
make of it, I turned to ]\Iiss Jillgall.

Surely Philip can't have quarrelled with
Helena ?' I said.

Miss Jillgall answered in an odd off-hand
manner : ' Xot he ! He is a great deal more
likely to have quarrelled with himself.'

'Why?'

Suppose you ask him why ?'

It was not to be thought of; it would have
looked like prying into his thoughts. 'Selina!'
I said, ' there is something odd about you 



day. AVliat is the matter ? I don't understand
you.'

'My poor dear, you will find yourself understanding
me before long.' I thought I saw-something
like pity in her face when she said
that.

My poor dear?' I repeated. ' \Yhat makes
you speak to me in that way?'

I don't know — I'm tired ; I'm an old fool
I'll go back to the house.'

Without another word, she left me. I
turned to look for Philip, and saw that my
sister had joined him while I had been speaking
to Miss Jillgall. It pleased me to find
that they were talking in a friendly way when
I joined them. A quarrel between Helena and
my husband that is to be — no, my husband
that shall be — would have been too distressing,
too unnatural I might almost call it.

Philip looked along the backward path, and
asked what had become of Miss Jillgall.

Have you any objection to follow her
example?' be said to me, when T told him that
Senna bad returned to the town. ' I don't
care for the banks of this river.'

Helena, wbo used to like the river at other
times, was as ready as Philip to leave it now.
I fancy they bad both been kindly waiting to
change our walk, till I came to them, and they
could study my wi:<bes too. Of course I was
ready to go Avbere they pleased. I asked
Philip if there was anything be would like to
see, when we got into the streets again.

Clever Helena suggested what seemed to
be a strange amusement to offer to Philip.

Let's take bim to the Girls' School,' sbe
said.

It appeared to be a matter of perfect indifference
to bim ; be was, what they call,
ironical. ' Ob, yes, of course. Deeply interesting!
deeply interesting!' He suddenly
broke into the wildest good spirits, and tucked

my hand under his arm with a gaiety which it
was impossible to resist. ' What a boy you
are!' Helena said, enjoying his delightful
hilarity as I did.

Ounces Diary.

On entering the schoolroom we lost our gaiety,
all in a moment. Something unpleasant had
evidently happened.

Two of the eldest girls were sitting together
in a corner, separated from the rest, and looking
most wickedly sulky. The teachers were
at the other end of the room, appearing to be
ill at ease. And there, standing in the midst
of them, with his face flushed and his eyes
angry — there was ra])a ; sadly ludike his
gentle self in the days of his health and happiness.
On former occasions, when the exercise
of his authority was required in the school, his
forbearing temper always set things right.

When I saw liii now, I tliouo-ht of what the
doctor liacl said of his health, on my way home
from the station.

Papa advanced to us the moment we showed
ourselves at the door.

He shook hands — cordially shook hands —
with Philip. It was delightful to see him,
delightful to hear him say : ' Pray don't
suppose, Mr. Dunboyne, that you are intruding
; remain with us by all means if you like.'
Then he spoke to Helena and to me, still
excited, still not like himself: * You couldn't
have come here, my dears, at a time when
your presence was more urgently needed.'
He turned to the teachers. ^ Tell my
daughters what has happened ; tell them,
why they see me here — shocked and distressed,
I don't deny it.'

We now heard that the two girls in disgrace
had broken the rules, and in such a manner as
to deserve severe punishment.

One of them had been discovered biding a
novel in her desk. The other bad misbehaved
herself more seriously still — she bad gone to
the theatre. Instead of expressing any regret,
they bad actually dared to complain of having
to learn Papa's improved catechism. They
had even accused him of treating them with
severity, because they were poor girls brought
up on charity. ' If we had been young ladies
they were audacious enough to say, ' more
indulgence would have been shown to us ; Ave
should have been allowed to read stories and
to see plays.'

All this time I had been asking myself what
Papa meant, when he told us we could not
have come to the schoolroom at a better time.
His meaning now appeared. When he spoke
to the offending girls, he pointed to Helena
and to me.

Here are my daughters,' he said. ' You
will not deny that they are young ladies.

Xow listen. They shall tell you themselves
whether my rules make any difference between
them and you. Helena I Eunice I do I allow
you to read novels ? do I allow you to go to
the play ?'

We said, ' Xo ' — and hoped it was over. But
he had not done yet. He turned to Helena.

Answer some of the questions he went on,
'from my Manual of Christian Obligation,
which the girls call my catechism.' He asked
one of the questions : ' If you are told to do
unto others as you would they should do unto
you, and if you find a difficulty in obeying
that Divine Precept, what does your duty
require ?'

It is my belief that Helena has the materials
in her for making another Joan of Arc. She
rose, and answered without the slightest sign
of timidity : ' My duty requires me to go to
the minister, and to seek for advice and encouragement.'


And if these fail ?'

Then I am to remember that my pastor is
my friend. He claims no priestly authority'
or priestly infallibility. He is my fellows
who loves me. He will tell me how
he has himself foiled ; how he has struggled
against himself : and what a blessed reward
has followed his victory — a purified heart, a
peaceful mind.'

There Papa released my sister, after she had
only repeated two out of all the answers in
Christian Obligation, which we first beo^an to
learn when we were children. Pie then addressed
himself again to the girls,

Is what you have just heard a part of my
catechism ? Plan mv daughter been excused
from repeating it because she is a young lady?
Where is the difference between the religious
education which is given to my own child,
and that given to you ?'

The wretched girls still sat silent and obstinate,

with their heads down. I tremble
again as I write of what happened next. Papa
heed his eyes on me. He said, out loud:
'Eunice!' — and waited for me to rise and
answer, as my sister had done.

[t was entirely beyond my power to get on
my feet.

Philip had (innocently, I am sure) discouraged
me ; I saw displeasure, I saw contempt
in his face. There was a dead silence
in the room. Everybody looked at me. My
heart beat furiously, my hands turned cold,
the questions and answers in Christian Obligation
all left my memory together. I looked
imploringly at Papa.

For the first time in his life, he was hard on
me. His eyes Avere as angry as ever ; they
showed me no mercy. Oh, Avhat had come tome
? what evil spirit possessed me ? I felt
resentment ; horrid, undutiful resentment, at
being treated in this cruel way. My fists

clenched themselves in my lap, in' face felt as
lot as fire. Instead of asking my father to
excuse me, I said : ' I can't do it.' He was
astounded, as well he might be. I went on
from bad to worse. I said : ' I won't do it.'

He stooped over me ; lie whispered : ' I am
going to ask you something ; I insist on your
answering, Yes or No.' He raised his voice,
and drew himself back so that they could all
see me.

Have you been taught like your sister ?'
he asked. ' Has the catechism that has been
her religious lesson, for all lier life, been your
religious lesson, for all your life, too ?'

I said : ' Yes ' — and I was in such a raise
that I said it out loud. If Philip had handed
me his cane, and had advised me to give the
young hussies who were answerable for this
dreadful state of things a good beating, I believe
I should have done it. Papa turned his
back on me, and offered the a'irls a last chance:

Do you feel sorry for what you have done ?
Do you ask to be forgiven ?'

Neither the one nor the other answered him.
He called across the room to the teachers :
^ Those two pupils are expelled the school.'

Both the women looked horrified. The
elder of the two approached him, and tried to
plead for a milder sentence. He answered in
one stern word: 'Silence I' — and left the
schoolroom, without even a passing bow to
Philip. And this, after he had cordially
shaken hands with my poor dear, not half an
hour before. (ot ^a-:-:-

I ought to have made affectionate allowance
for his nervous miseries ; I ought to have ran
after him, and begged his pardon. There
must be something wrong, I am afraid, in
o'irls loving' anybody but their fathers. When
Helena led the way out by another door, I
ran after Philip ; and I asked 1dm to forgive
me.

I don't know what I said ; it was all confusion.
The fear of having forfeited his fondness
must. I suppose, have shaken my mind.
I remember entreating Helena to say a kind
word for me. She was so clever, she harl
behaved so well, she had deserved that Philip
should listen to her. ' Oh,' I cried out to
him desperately, ' what must you think of
me?'

I will tell you what I think of you,' he
said. ' It is your father who is in fault,
Eunice — not you. Xothing could have been
in worse taste than his management of that
trumpery affair in the schoolroom ; it was a
complete mistake from beginning to end.
Make your mind easy ; I don't blame You.'

Are you, really and truly, as fond of me as
ever ?'

^ Yes, to be sure !'

Helena seemed to be hardly as much interested
in this happy ending of my anxieties

as I might have anticipated. She walked on
by herself. Perhaps she was thinking of poor
Papa's strange outbreak of excitement, and
grieving over it.

We had only a little way to walk, before
we passed the door of Philip's hotel. He had
not yet received the expected letter from his
father — the cruel letter which micrht recall him
to Ireland. It was then the hour of delivery
by our second post ; he went to look at the
letter-rack in the hall. Helena saw that I
was anxious. She was as kind again as ever ;
she consented to wait with me for Philip, at
the door.

He came out to us with an open letter in his
hand.

From my father, at last,' he said — and
gave me the letter to read. It only contained
these few lines :

Do not be alarmed, my dear boy, at the
change for the worse in mv handwriting I

am suffering: for mv devotion to the studious
habits of a lifetime : my right hand is attacked
by the maLady called Writer's Cramp. The
doctor here can do nothing. He tells me of
some foreign woman, mentioned in his newspaper,
who cures nervous derangements of all
kinds by hand-rubbing, and who is coming to
London. When you next hear from me, I
may be in London too.' — There the letter
ended.

Of course I knew who the foreif]^n woman,
mentioned in the newspaper, was.

But Avhat does Miss Jillgall's friend matter
to me ? The one important thing is, that
PhiHp has not been called back to Ireland.
Here is a fortunate circumstance, which perhaps
means more good luck. I may be Mrs.
Philip Dunboyne before the year is out.

END OF VOL. I.

BILLING « SONS, PRINTERS. Guildford.

iiliici

$5 5^, fe'«!)i?ci3ji<o,w.v-. -. --.-•. .

,^!^VVV"

:k'u^^

., , ^^vw.

Mw^^Cil^v;,^,

isw^:^"

^WV^*|

'^m

OF THL

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

CGSCe
V. I

vies

[|| Nothing

VOL. I.

Agate ha Page. By Isaac Henderson. 2 vols.
This Mortal Coil. By Grant Allen. 3 vols.
The Blackhall Ghosts. By Sarah Tatler.

3 vols.

A Strange Manuscript Found in a Copper
Cylinder. By Gilbert Gaul, i vol.

Herr Paulus. By Walter Besant. i vol.

The Man-hunter. By Dick Donovan, i vol.

The Spectre of the Camera. By Julian
Hawthorne, i vol.

Players and Playwrights I have Known.
By John Coleman. 2 vols.

London: CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY.

BY

WILKIE COLLINS

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. L

Pontoon

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[A U rights resumed]

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/legacyofcain01colli

TO

MRS. HENRY POWELL Barley.

Permit me to add your name to my name, in
publishing this novel. The j^ en which has lurittenmy
hooJcs cannot he more agreeably employed than in
acknowledging what I owe to the peri ivhich has
skilfully arid patiently helped me, hy copying my
Tifianuscripts for the printer.

Wilkie COLLINS.

WiMPOLE Street,

Eth December, 18S8.

First l^znol : 1S5S-1S59.

EVENTS IN THE PRISON, RELATED BY THE GOVERNOR.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. THE GOVERNOR EXPLAINS - - - 3

II. THE MURDERESS ASKS QUESTIONS - - 5

III. THE CHILD APPEARS - - - - 13

IV. THE MINISTER SAYS YES - - - 18
V. MISS CHANCE ASSERTS HERSELF - - 32

VI. THE DOCTOR DOUBTS - - - - 47

VII. THE MURDERESS CONSULTS THE Authorities 56

Viii. THE MINISTER SAYS Good-bye - - - 66

IX. THE GOVERNOR RECEIVES A VISIT - - 74

X. MISS CHANCE Reappears - - - 88

cSccoub Ixion: 1875.

THE GIRLS AND THE JOURNALS

XI. HELENA'S Diary - - - - 105

XII. EUNICE'S Diary 120

CHAPTER PAGE

XIII. EUNICE'S DIARY - 133

XIV. HELENA'S DIARY - - - - 157
XV. HELENA'S DIARY - - - - 176

XVI. HELENA'S DIARY 190

XVII. HELENA'S DIARY - . 201

XVIII. EUNICE'S DIARY - 213

XIX. EUNICE'S DIARY - 224

XX. EUNICE'S DIARY - 238

XXI. Helena's diary . - 248

XXII. Eunice's diary - 261

xxii. Eunice's diary - 269

XXIV. Eunice's diary' - - - . 279

Jir0t imo: 1858—1859.

EVENTS IN THE PRISON, RELATED BY THE
GOVERNOR.

VOL. I.

THE GOVERNOR EXPLAINS.

At the request of a person who has claims on
me that I must not disown, I consent to look
back through a long interval of years, and to
describe events which took place within the
walls of an English prison during the earlier
period of my appointment as Governor.

Viewing my task by the light which later
experience casts on it, I think I shall act
wisely by exercising some control over the
freedom of my pen.

I propose to pass over in silence the name
of the town in which is situated the prison
once confided to my care. ' I shall observe a

1—2

similar discretion in alluding to individuals
some dead, some living, at the present
time.

Being obliged to write of a woman who deservedly
suffered the extreme penalty of the
law, I think she will be sufficiently identified
if I call her The Prisoner. Of the four persons
present on the evening before her execution,
three may be distinguished one from the other
by allusion to their vocations in life. I here
introduce them as The Chaplain, The Minister,
and The Doctor. The fourth was a young
woman. She has no claim on my consideration
; and, when she is mentioned, her name
may appear. If these reserves excite suspicion,
I declare beforehand that they influence in noway
the sense of responsibility which commands
an honest man to speak the truth.

THE MURDERESS ASKS QUESTIONS.

The first of the events which I must now
relate was the conviction of The Prisoner for
the murder of her husband.

They had lived together in matrimony for
little more than two years. The husband, a
gentleman by birth and education, had mortally
offended his relations by marrying a woman
in an inferior rank of life. He was fast declining
into a state of poverty, through his
own reckless extravagance, at the time when
he met with his death at his wife's hand.

Without attempting to excuse him, he deserved,
to my mind, some tribute of regret.

It is not to be denied that he was profligate in
his habits and violent in his temper. But it
is equally true that he was affectionate in the
domestic circle, and, when moved by wisely-applied
remonstrance, sincerely penitent for
sins committed under temptation that overpowered
him. If his wife had killed him in a
fit of jealous rage — under provocation, be it
remembered, which the witnesses proved — she
might have l)een convicted of manslaughter,
and might have received a light sentence.
But the evidence so undeniably revealed deliberate
and merciless premeditation, that the
only defence attempted by her counsel was
madness, and the only alternative left to a
righteous jury was a verdict which condemned
the woman to death. Those mischievous
members of the community, v\^hose topsy-turvy
sympathies feel for the living criminal
and forget the dead victim, attempted to save
her by means of high-flown petitions and contemptible

correspondence in the newspapers.
But the Judge held firm ; and the Home
Secretary held firm. They were entirely right ;
and the public were scandalously wrong.

Our Chaplain endeavoured to offer the consolations
of religion to the condemned wretch.
She refused to accept his ministrations in
language which filled him with grief and
horror.

On the evening before the execution, the
reverend gentleman laid on my table his own
written report of a conversation which had
passed between the Prisoner and himself.

I see some hope, sir,' he said, ' of inclining
the heart of this woman to religious belief,
before it is too late. Will you read my report,
and say if you agree with me V

I read it, of course. It was called ' A
Memorandum,' and was thus written :

At his last interview with the Prisoner, the
Chaplain asked her if she had ever entered a

place of public worship. She replied that she
had occasionally attended the services at a
Congregational Church in this town ; attracted
by the reputation of the Minister as a preacher.
*' He entirely failed to make a Christian of
me," she said ; " but I was struck by his
eloquence. Besides, he interested me personally
— he was a fine man."

In the dreadful situation in which the
woman was placed, such language as this
shocked the Chaplain ; he appealed in vain to
the Prisoner's sense of propriety. " You don't
understand women," she answered. " The
greatest saint of my sex that ever lived likes
to look at a preacher as well as to hear him.
If he is an agreeable man, he has all the
greater effect on her. This preacher's voice
told me he was kind-hearted ; and I had only
to look at his beautiful eyes to see that he was
trustworthy and true."

It was useless to repeat a protest which

had already failed. Recklessly and flippantly
as she had described it, an impression had been
produced on her. It occurred to the Chaplain
that he might at least make the attempt to
turn this result to her own religious advantage.
He asked whether she would receive the
Minister, if the reverend gentleman came to
the prison. " That will depend," she said,
on whether you answer some questions which
I want to put to you first." The Chaplain
consented ; provided always that he could
reply with propriety to what she asked of
him. Her first question only related to himself.


She said : " The women who watch me tell
me that you are a widower, and have a family
of children. Is that true ?"

The Chaplain answered that it was quite
true.

She alluded next to a report, current in
the town, that the Minister had resigned the

pastorate. Being personally acquainted with
him, the Chaplain was able to inform her that
his resignation had not yet been accepted. On
hearing this, she seemed to gather confidence.
Her next inquiries succeeded each other
rapidly, as follows :

" Is my handsome preacher married V
" Yes."

" Has he got any children T
'' He has never had any children."
" How long has he been married T
" As well as I know, about seven or eight
years."

" What sort of woman is his wife ?"
" A lady universally respected."
" I don't care whether she is respected or
not. Is she kind ?"
" Certainly !"
" Is her husband well off?"
" He has a sufficient income."
After that reply, the Prisoner's curiosity

appeared to be satisfied. She said, " Bring
your friend the preacher to me, if you like " —
and there it ended.

'What her object could have been in putting
these questions, it seems to be impossible to
guess. Having accurately reported all that
took place, the Chaplain declares, with heartfelt
regret, that he can exert no religious
influence over this obdurate woman. He
leaves it to the Governor to decide whether
the Minister of the Congregational Church
may not succeed, where the Chaplain of the
Gaol has failed. Herein is the one last hope
of saving the soul of the Prisoner, now under
sentence of death. ^

In those serious words the Memorandum
ended.

Although not personally acquainted with
the Minister, I had heard of him, on all sides,
as an excellent man. In the emergency that
confronted us he had, as it seemed to me, his

own sacred right to enter the prison ; assuming
that he was willing to accept, what I
myself felt to be, a very serious responsibility.
The first necessity was to discover whether we
might hope to obtain his services. With my
full approval the Chaplain left me, to state
the circumstances to his reverend colleague.

THE CHILD APPEARS.

During my friend's absence, my attention was
claimed by a sad incident — not unforeseen.

It is, I suppose, generally known that near
relatives are admitted to take their leave of
criminals condemned to death. In the case of
the Prisoner now waiting for execution, no
person applied to the authorities for permission
to see her. I myself inquired if she had any
relations living, and if she would like to see
them. She answered : ' None that I care to
see, or that care to see me — except the nearest
relation of all.'

In those last words the miserable creature

alluded to her only child, a little girl (an
infant, I should say), who had passed her
first year's birthday by a few months. The
farewell interview was to take place on the
mother's last evening on earth ; and the child
was now brought into my rooms, in charge
of her nurse.

I had seldom seen a brighter or prettier
little girl. She was just able to walk alone,
and to enjoy the first delight of moving from
one place to another. Quite of her own accord
she came to me, attracted I dare say by the
glitter of my watch-chain. Helping her to
climb on my knee, I showed the wonders of
the watch, and held it to her ear. At that
past time, death had taken my good wife from
me ; my two boys were away at Harrow
School ; my domestic life was the life of a
lonely man. Whether I was reminded of the
bygone days when my sons were infants on
my knee, listening to the ticking of my watch

or whether the friendless position of the poor
little creature, who had lost one parent and
was soon to lose the other by a violent death,
moved me in depths of pity not easily reached
in my later experience — I am not able to say.
This only I know : my heart ached for the
child while she was laughing and listening ;
and something fell from me on the watch
which I don't deny might have been a tear. A
few of the toys, mostly broken now which my
two children used to play with are still in my
possession ; kept, like my poor wife's favourite
jewels, for old remembrance' sake. These I
took from their repository when the attraction
of my watch showed signs of failing. The
child pounced on them with her chubby hands,
and screamed with pleasure. And the hangman
was waiting for her mother — and, more
horrid still, the mother deserved it !

My duty required me to let the Prisoner
know that her little daughter had arrived.

Did that heart of iron melt at last ? It might
have been so, or it might not ; the message
sent back kept her secret. All that it said tome
was : ' Let the child wait till I send for
her.'

The Minister had consented to help us. On
his arrival at the prison, I received him privately
in my study.

I had only to look at his face — pitiably pale
and agitated — to see that he was a sensitive
man, not always able to control his nerves on
occasions which tried his moral courage. A
kind, I might almost say a noble face, and a
voice unaffectedly persuasive, at once prepossessed
me in his favour. The few words
of welcome that I spoke were intended to
compose him. They failed to produce the
impression on which I had counted.

My experience,' he said, '• has included
many melancholy duties, and has tried my
composure in many terrible scenes ; but I

have never yet found myself in the presence
of an unrepentant criminal, sentenced to death
and that criminal a woman and a mother. I
own, sir, that I am shaken by the prospect
before me.'

I suggested that he should wait awhile, in
the hope that time and quiet might help him.
He thanked me, and refused.

If I have any knowledge of myself,' he
said, ' terrors of anticipation lose their hold
when I am face to face with a serious call
on me. The longer I remain here, the less
worthy I shall appear of the trust that has
been placed in me — the trust which, please
God, I mean to deserve.'

My own observation of human nature told
me that this was wisely said. I led the way at
once to the cell.

VOL. I.

THE MINISTER SAYS YES.

The Prisoner was seated on her bed, quietly
talking with the woman appointed to watch
her. When she rose to receive us, I saw the
Minister start. The face that confronted him
would, in my opinion, have taken any man by
surprise, if he had first happened to see it
within the walls of a prison.

Visitors to the picture-galleries of Italy,
growing weary of Holy Families in endless
succession, observe that the idea of the
Madonna, among the rank and file of Italian
Painters, is limited to one changeless and
familiar type. I can hardly hope to be

believed when I say that the personal appearance
of the murderess recalled that type. She
presented the delicate light hair, the quiet
eyes, the finely-shaped lower features, and the
correctly oval form of face, repeated in hundreds
on hundreds of the conventional works
of Art to which I have ventured to allude.
To those who doubt me, I can only declare
that what I have here written is undisguised
and absolute truth. Let me add that daily
observation of all classes of criminals, extending
over many years, has considerably
diminished my faith in physiognomy as a
safe guide to the discovery of character. Nervous
trepidation looks like guilt. Guilt, firmly
sustained by insensibility, looks like innocence.
One of the vilest wretches ever placed under
my charge won the sympathies (while he was
waiting for his trial) of every person who saw
him, including even the persons employed in
the prison. Only the other day, ladies and

gentlemen coming to visit me passed a body
of men at work on the road. Judges of
physiognomy among them were horrified at
the criminal atrocity betrayed in every face
that they noticed. They condoled with me on
the near neighbourhood of so many convicts to
my official place of residence. I looked out of
the window, and saw a group of honest
labourers (whose only crime was poverty)
employed by the parish !

Having instructed the female warder to
leave the room — but to take care that she
waited within call — I looked again at the
Minister.

Confronted by the serious responsibility that
he had undertaken, he justified what he had
said to me. Still pale, still distressed, he was
now nevertheless master of himself. I turned
to the door to leave him alone with the Prisoner.
She called me back.

'Before this gentleman tries to convert me,'

she said, ^ I want you to wait here and be a
witness.'

Finding that we were both willing to comply
with this request, she addressed herself directly
to the Minister. ' Suppose I promise to listen
to your exhortations,' she began, ' what do you
promise to do for me in return f

The voice in which she spoke to him was
steady and clear ; a marked contrast to the
tremulous earnestness with which he answered
her.

I promise to urge you to repentance and
the confession of your crime. I promise to
implore the divine blessing on me in the effort
to save your poor guilty soul.'

She looked at him, and listened to him, as
if he was speaking to her in an unknown
tongue, and went on with what she had to say
as quietly as ever.

When I am hanged tomorrow, suppose I
die without confessing, without repenting — are

you one of those who believe I shall be
doomed to eternal punishment in another

life r

I believe in the mercy of God.'

'Answer my question, if you please. Is an
impenitent sinner eternally punished % Do you
believe that ?'

'My Bible leaves me no other alternative.'

She paused for awhile, evidently considering
with special attention what she was about to
say next.

As a religious man,' she resumed, ' would
you be willing to make some sacrifice, rather
than let a fellow creature go — after a disgraceful
death — to everlasting torment ?'

I know of no sacrifice in my power he
said fervently, ' to which I would not rather
submit, than let you die in the present dreadful
state of your mind.'

The Prisoner turned to me. ' Is the person
who watches me waiting outside ?'

'Yes.'

Will you be so kind as to call her in % I
have a message for her.'

It was plain that she had been leading
the way to the delivery of that message,
whatever it might be, in all that she had
said up to the present time. So far my
poor powers of penetration helped me, and no
farther.

The warder appeared, and received her
message. ' Tell the woman who has come
here with my little girl that I want to see the
child.'

Taken completely by surprise, I signed to
the attendant to wait for further instructions.
In a moment more, I had sufficiently recovered
myself to see the impropriety of permitting
any obstacle to interpose between the
Minister and his errand of mercy. I gently
reminded the Prisoner that she would have a
later opportunity of seeing her child. * Your

first duty,' I told her, ' is to hear and to take
to heart what the clergyman has to say to
you.'

For the second time I attempted to leave the
cell. For the second time this impenetrable
woman called me back.

Take the parson away with you she said.
I refuse to listen to him.'

The patient Minister yielded, and appealed
to me to follow his example. I reluctantly
sanctioned the delivery of the message.

After a brief interval the child was brought
to us, tired and sleepy. For a while the nurse
roused her by setting her on her feet. She
happened to notice the Minister first. Her
bright eyes rested on him, gravely wondering.
He kissed her, and, after a momentary hesitation,
gave her to her mother. The horror of
the situation overpowered him : he turned his
face away from us. I understood what he felt ;
he almost overthrew my own self-command.

The Prisoner spoke to the nurse in no friendly
tone : ' You can go.'

The nurse turned to me, ostentatiously
ignoring the words that had been addressed to
her. ' Am I to go, sir, or to stay '?' I suggested
that she should return to the waiting-room.
She returned at once, in silence. The
Prisoner looked after her as she went out, with
such an expression of hatred in her eyes that
the Minister noticed it.

What has that person done to offend you X
he asked.

She is the last person in the whole world
whom 1 should have chosen to take care of my
child, if the power of choosing had been mine.
But I have been in prison, without a living
creature to represent me or to take my part. No
more of that ; my troubles will be over in a few
hours more. I want you to look at my little
girl, whose troubles are all to come. Do you
call her pretty ? Do you feel interested in her ?'

The sorrow and pity in his face answered
for him.

Quietly sleeping, the poor baby rested on
her mother's bosom. Was the heart of the
murderess softened by the divine influence of
maternal love ? The hands that held the child
trembled a little. For the first time, it
seemed to cost her an effort to compose herself,
before she could speak to the Minister
again.

When I die tomorrow,' she said, ' I leave
my child helpless and friendless — disgraced by
her mother's shameful death. The workhouse
may take her — or a charitable asylum may take
her.' She paused ; a first tinge of colour rose
on her pale face ; she broke into an outburst
of rage. ' Think of my daughter being brought
up by charity ! She may suffer poverty, she
may be treated with contempt, she may be
employed by brutal people in menial work. I
can't endure it : it maddens me. If she is not

saved from that wretched fate, I shall die despairing,
I shall die cursing '

The Minister sternly stopped her before she
could say the next word. To my astonishment
she appeared to be humbled, to be even
ashamed : she asked his pardon : ' Forgive
me ; I won't forget myself again. They tell
me you have no children of your own. Is
that a sorrow to you and your wife V

Her altered tone touched him. He answered
sadly and kindly : ' It is the one sorrow of our
lives.'

The purpose which she had been keeping in
view from the moment when the Minister
entered her cell was no mystery now. Ought
I to have interfered ? Let me confess a weakness,
unworthy perhaps of my office. I was
so sorry for the child — I hesitated.

My silence encouraged the mother. She
advanced to the Minister with the sleeping
infant in her arms.

I dare say you have sometimes thought of
adopting a child ?' she said. ' Perhaps you can
guess now what I had in my mind, when T
asked if you would consent to a sacrifice ?
Will you take this wretched innocent little
creature home with you *?' She lost her self-possession
once more. ' A motherless creature
tomorrow,' she burst out. 'Think of that.'

God knows how I still shrunk from it ! But
there was no alternative now ; I was bound to
remember my duty to the excellent man, whose
critical position at that moment was, in some
degree at least, due to my hesitation in asserting
my authority. Could I allow the Prisoner
to presume on his compassionate nature, and
to hurry him into a decision which, in his
calmer moments, he might find reason to
regret ? I spoke to him. Does the man live
who — having to say what I had to say — could
have spoken to the doomed mother ?

^I am sorry I have allowed this to 2:0 on,'

I said. ' In justice to yourself, sir, don't
answer !'

She turned on me with a look of fury.

He shall answer !' she cried.

I saw or thought I saw, signs of yielding in
his face. ' Take time,' I persisted — ' take time
to consider before you decide.'

She stepped up to me.

'Take time ^' she repeated. 'Are you inhuman
enough to talk of time, in my presence
X

She laid the sleeping child on her bed, and
fell on her knees before the Minister : ' I
promise to hear your exhortations — I promise
to do all a woman can to believe and repent.
Oh, I know myself ! My heart, once hardened,
is a heart that no human creature can touch.
The one way to my better nature — if I have
a better nature — is through that poor babe.
Save her from the workhouse 1 Don't let them
make a pauper of her !' She sank prostrate at

his feet, and beat her hands in frenzy on the
floor. * You want to save my guilty soul,' she
reminded him furiously. ' There's but one
way of doing it. Save my child !'

He raised her. Her fierce tearless eyes
questioned his face in a mute expectation
dreadful to see. Suddenly, a foretaste of
death — the death that was so near now ! —
struck her with a shivering fit : her head
dropped on the Minister's shoulder. Other
men might have shrunk from the contact of it.
That true Christian let it rest.

Under the maddening sting of suspense, her
sinking energies rallied for an instant. In a
whisper, she was just able to put the supreme
question to him.

Yes % or No ?'

He answered : * Yes.'

A faint breath of relief, just audible in the
silence, told me that she had heard him. It

was her last effort. He laid her, insensible,
on the bed, by the side of her sleeping child.
Look at them,' was all he said to me ; ' how
could I refuse ?'

MISS CHANCE ASSERTS Herself,

The services of our medical officer were required,
in order to hasten the recovery of the
Prisoner's senses.

When the Doctor and I left the cell together,
she was composed, and ready (in the performance
of her promise) to listen to the exhortations
of the Minister. The sleeping child
was left undisturbed, by the mother's desire.
If the Minister felt tempted to regret what he
had done, there was the artless influence which
would check him ! As we stepped into the
corridor, I gave the female warder her instructions
to remain on the watch, and to return to
her post when she saw the Minister come out.

In the meantime, my companion had walked
on a little way.

Possessed of ability and experience within
the limits of his profession, he was in other
respects a man with a crotchety mind ; bold to
the verge of recklessness in the expression of
his opinion ; and possessed of a command of
language that carried everything before it.
Let me add that he was just and merciful in
his intercourse with others, and I shall have
summed him up fairly enough. When I joined
him, he seemed to be absorbed in reflection.

Thinking of the Prisoner V I said.

Thinking of what is going on, at this
moment, in the condemned cell he answered,
and wondering if any good will come of it.'

I was not without hope of a good result,
and I said so.

The Doctor disagreed with me. ' I don't
believe in that woman's penitence,' he remarked
; ' and I look upon the parson as a

VOL. I. 3

poor weak creature. What is to become of
the child ?'

There was no reason for concealing from
one of my colleagues the benevolent decision,
on the part of the good Minister, of which I
had been a witness. The Doctor listened tome
with the first appearance of downright
astonishment that I had ever observed in his
face. When I had done, he made an extraordinary
reply :

Governor, I retract what I said of the
parson just now. He is one of the boldest
men that ever stepped into a pulpit.'

Was the Doctor in earnest ? Strongly in
earnest ; there could be no doubt of it.
Before I could ask him what he meant, he
was called away to a patient on the other side
of the prison. When we parted at the door
of my room, I made it a request that my
medical friend would return to me and explain
what he had just said.

Considering that you are the governor of
a prison,' he replied, * you are a singularly
rash man. If I come back, how do you know
I shall not bore you V

My rashness runs the risk of that I
rejoined.

Tell me something, before I allow you to
run your risk,' he said. * Are you one of
those people who think that the tempers
of children are formed by the accidental
influences which happen to be about
them ? Or do you agree with me that the
tempers of children are inherited from their
parents V

The Doctor (as I concluded) was still
strongly impressed by the Minister's resolution
to adopt a child, whose wicked mother
had committed the most atrocious of all
crimes. Was some serious foreboding, suggested
by that circumstance, in secret possession
of his mind ? My curiosity to hear

3-2

him was now increased tenfold. I replied
without hesitation :

I agree with you

He looked at me with his sense of humour
twinkling in his eyes. ^ Do you know I
rather expected that answer V he said, slily.
All right. I'll come back.'

Left by myself, I took up the day's newspaper.


My attention wandered ; my thoughts were
in the cell with the Minister and the Prisoner.
How would it end % Sometimes, I was inclined
to doubt with the Doctor. Sometimes,
I took refuge in my own more hopeful view.
These idle reflections were agreeably interrupted
by the appearance of my friend, the
Chaplain.

You are always welcome,' I said ; ' and
doubly welcome just now. I am feeling a
little worried and anxious.'

And you are naturally,' the Chaplain

added, ' not at all disposed to receive a
stranger ?'

Is the stranger a friend of yours V I
asked.

Oh no ! Having occasion, just now, to
go into the waiting-room, I found a young
woman there, who asked me if she could see
you. She thinks you have forgotten her, and
she is tired of waiting. I merely undertook, of
course, to mention what she had said to me.'

The nurse having been in this way recalled
to my memory, I felt some little interest in
seeing her, after what had passed in the cell.
In plainer words, I was desirous of judging
for myself whether she deserved the hostile
feeling which the Prisoner had shown towards
her. I thanked the Chaplain before he left
me, and gave the servant the necessary instructions.
When she entered the room, I
looked at the woman attentively for the first
time.

Youth and a fine complexion, a well-made
figure and a natural grace of movement — these
were her personal attractions, so far as I could
see. Her defects were, to my mind, equally
noticeable. Under a heavy forehead, her
piercing eyes looked out at persons and things
with an expression which was not to my
taste. Her large mouth — another defect, in
my opinion — would have been recommended
to mercy, in the estimation of many men, by
her magnificent teeth ; white, well shaped,
cruelly regular. Believers in physiognomy
might perhaps have seen the betrayal of an
obstinate nature in the lengthy firmness of
her chin. While I am trying to describe her,
let me not forget her dress. A woman's dress
is the mirror in which we may see the reflection
of a woman's nature. Bearing in
mind the melancholy and impressive circumstances
under which she had brought the
child to the prison, the gaiety of colour in

her gown and her bonnet implied either a
total want of feeling, or a total want of tact.
As to her position in life, let me confess that
I felt, after a closer examination, at a loss to
determine it. She was certainly not a lady.
The Prisoner had spoken of her as if she was
a domestic servant who had forfeited her right
to consideration and respect. And she had
entered the prison, as a nurse might have
entered it, in charge of a child. I did what
we all do when we are not clever enough to
find the answer to a riddle — I gave it up.

What can I do for you ?' I asked.

Perhaps you can tell me,' she answered,
how much longer I am to be kept waiting in
this prison.'

The decision,' I reminded her, ' doesn't depend
on me.'

'Then who does it depend on ?'

The Minister had undoubtedly acquired the
sole right of deciding. It was for him to say

whether this woman should, or should not,
remain in attendance on the child whom he
had adopted. In the meanwhile, the feeling
of distrust which was gaining on my mind
warned me to remember the value of reserve
in holding intercourse with a stranger.

She seemed to be irritated by my silence.
If the decision doesn't rest with you,' she
asked, ' why did you tell me to stay in the
waiting-room ?'

You brought the little girl into the
prison,' I said ; ' was it not natural to suppose
that your mistress might want you ?'

Stop, sir !'

I had evidently given offence ; I stopped
directly.

No person on the face of the earth,' she
declared loftily, 'has ever had the right to
call herself my mistress. Of my own freewill,
sir, I took charge of the child.'

Because you are fond of her ?' I suggested.

I hate her.'

It was unwise on my part — I protested.
Hate a baby, little more than a year old !' 1
said.

Her baby !'

She said it with the air of a woman who
had produced an unanswerable reason. ' I am
accountable to nobody,' she went on. ' If I
consented to trouble myself with the child, it
was in remembrance of my friendship — notice,
if you please, that I say friendship — with the
unhappy father.'

Putting together what I had just heard,
and what I had seen in the cell, I drew the
right conclusion at last. The woman, whose
position in life had been thus far an impenetrable
mystery to me, now stood revealed
as one, among other objects of the Prisoner's
jealousy, during her disastrous married life.
A serious doubt occurred to me as to the
authority under which the husband's mistress

might be acting, after the husband's death. I
instantly put it to the test.

Do I understand you to assert any claim
to the child ?' I asked.

Claim ?' she repeated. ' I know no more
of the child than you do. I heard for the
first time that such a creature was in existence,
when her murdered father sent for me in his
dying moments. At his entreaty I promised
to take care of her, while her vile mother was
out of the house and in the hands of the law.
My promise has been performed. If I am
expected (having brought her to the prison) to
take her away again, understand this : I am
under no obligation (even if I could afford
it) to burden myself with that child ; I
shall hand her over to the workhouse
authorities.'

I forgot myself once more — I lost my
temper.

Leave the room !' I said. ' Your unworthy

hands will not touch the poor baby again.
She is provided for

I don't believe you !' the wretch burst out.

Who has taken the child T

A quiet voice answered : ' / have taken
her.'

We both looked round and saw the Minister
standing in the open doorway, with the child
in his arms. The ordeal that he had gone
through in the condemned cell was visible in
his face ; he looked miserably haggard and
broken. I was eager to know if his merciful
interest in the Prisoner had purified her guilty
soul — but at the same time I was afraid, after
what he had but too plainly suffered, to ask
him to enter into details.

Only one word,' I said. ' Are your anxieties
at rest V

God's mercy has helped me,' he answered.

I have not spoken in vain. She believes ;
she repents ; she has confessed the crime.'

After handing the written and signed confession
to me, he approached the venomous
creature, still lingering in the room to hear
what passed between us. Before I could stop
him, he spoke to her, under a natural impression
that he was addressing the Prisoner's
servant.

• I am afraid you will be disappointed he
said, ' when I tell you that your services will
no longer be required. I have reasons for
placing the child under the care of a nurse of
my own choosing.'

She listened with an evil smile.

I know who furnished you with your
reasons,' she answered. 'Apologies are quite
needless, so far as I am concerned. If you
had proposed to me to look after the new
member of your family there, I should have
felt it my duty to myself to have refused. I
am not a nurse — I am an independent single
lady. I see by your dress that you are a

clergyman ; allow me to present myself as a
mark of respect to your cloth. I am Miss
Elizabeth Chance. May I ask the favour of
your name ?'

Too weary and too preoccupied to notice the
insolence of her manner, the Minister mentioned
his name. ' I am anxious,' he said, ' to
know if the child has been baptized. Perhaps
you can enlighten me ?'

Still insolent, Miss Elizabeth Chance shook
her head carelessly. ' I never heard — and, to
tell you the truth, I never cared to hear —
whether she was christened or not. Call herby
what name you like, I can tell you this —
you will find your adopted daughter a heavy
handful.'

The Minister turned to me. ' What does
she mean V

I will try to tell you,' Miss Chance interposed.
* Being a clergyman, you know who
Deborah was ? Very well. I am Deborah

now; and I prophesy.' She pointed to the
child. ' Remember what I say, reverend sir !
You will find the tigress-cub take after its
mother.'

With those parting words, she favoured us
with a low curtsey, and left the room.

THE DOCTOR DOUBTS.

The Minister looked at me in an absent
manner ; his attention seemed to have been
wandering. 'What was it Miss Chance said?'
he asked.

Before I could speak, a friend's voice at the
door interrupted us. The Doctor, returning
to me as he had promised, answered the
Minister's question in these words :

I must have passed the person you mention,
sir, as I was coming in here; and I heard
her say : " You will find the tigress-cub take
after her mother." If she had known how to
put her meaning into good English, ]mischance
— that is the name you mentioned, I

think — might have told you that the vices of
the parents are inherited by the children.
And the one particular parent she had in her
mind,' the Doctor continued, gently patting
the child's cheek, was no doubt the mother of
this unfortunate little creature — who may, or
may not, live to show you that she comes of a
bad stock and inherits a wicked nature

I was on the point of protesting against my
friend's interpretation, when the Minister
stopped me.

Let me thank you, sir, for your explanation,'
he said to the Doctor. ' As soon as my
mind is free, I will reflect on what you have
said. Forgive me, Mr. Governor,' he went on,
if I leave you, now that I have placed the
Prisoner's confession in your hands. It has
been an effort to me to say the little I have
said, since I first entered this room. I can
think of nothing but that unhappy criminal,
and the death that she must die tomorrow.*

Does she wish sou to be present ?' I asked.

She positively forbids it. " After what
yoii have done for me," she said, " the least I
can do in return is to prevent your being needlessly
distressed." She took leave of me ; she
kissed the little girl for the last time — oh,
don't ask me to tell you about it! I shall
break down if I try. Come, my darling!' He
kissed the child tenderly, and took her away
with him.

That man is a strange compound of strength
and weakness,' the Doctor remarked. 'Did
you notice his face, just now ? Nine men out
of ten, suffering as he suffered, would have
failed to control themselves. Such resolution
as his may conquer the difficulties that are in
store for him, yet.'

It was a trial of my temper to hear my
clever colleague justifying, in this way, the
ignorant prediction of an insolent woman.

There are exceptions to all rules,' I in-vol.

I. 4

sister. ' And why are the virtues of the
parents not just as likely to descend to the
children as the vices? There was a fund of
good, I can tell you, in that poor baby's father
though I don't deny that he was a profligate
man. And even the horrible mother — as you
heard just now — has virtue enough left in her
to feel grateful to the man who has taken care
of her child. These are facts ; you can't
dispute them.'

The Doctor took out his pipe. ' Do you
mind my smoking?' he asked. ' Tobacco helps
me to arrange my ideas.'

I gave him the means of arranging his ideas ;
that is to say, I gave him the match-box. He
blew some preliminary clouds of smoke — and
then he answered me :

For twenty years past, my friend, I have
been studying the question of hereditary transmission
of qualities ; and I have found vices
and diseases descending more frequently to

children than virtues and health. I don't stop
to ask why : there is no end to that sort of
curiosity. What I have observed is what I
tell you ; no more and no less. You will say
this is a horribly discouraging result of experience,
for it tends to show that children
come into the world at a disadvantage on
the day of their birth. Of course they do.
Children are born deformed ; children are born
deaf, dumb, or blind ; children are born with
the seeds in them of deadly diseases. AVho can
account for the cruelties of creation ? Why are
we endowed with life — only to end in death ?
And does it ever strike you, when you are
cutting your mutton at dinner, and your cat
is catching its mouse, and your spider is
suffocating its fly, that we are all, big and
little together, born to one certain inheritance
the privilege of eating each other ?'

Yery sad,' T admitted. ' But it will all beset
risfht in another world.'

4—2

Are you sure of that ?' the Doctor asked.

Quite sure, thank God ! And it would be
better for you if you felt about it as I do.'

We won't dispute, my dear Governor. I
don't scoff at comforting hopes ; I don't deny
the existence of occasional compensations.
But I do see, nevertheless, that Evil has got
the upper hand among us, on this curious
little planet. Judging by my observation and
experience, that ill-fated baby's chance of
inheriting the virtues of her parents is not to
be compared with her chances of inheriting
their vices ; especially if she happens to take
after her mother. There, the virtue is not conspicuous,
and the vice is one enormous fact.
When I think of the growth of that poisonous
hereditary taint, which may come with time —
when I think of passions let loose and temptations
lying in ambush — I see the smooth
surface of the Minister's domestic life with
dangers lurking under it which make me shake

in my shoes. God ! what a life 1 should lead,
if I happened to be in his place, some years
hence. Suppose I said or did something (in
the just exercise of my parental authority)
which offended my adopted daughter. What
figure would rise from the dead in my
memory, when the girl bounced out of the
room in a rage ? The image of her mother
would be the imao;e I should see. I should ,
remember what her mother did when lie was
provoked ; I should lock my bedroom-door, in
my own house, at night. I should come down
to breakfast with suspicions of my cup of tea,
if I discovered that my adopted daughter had
poured it out. Oh, yes ; it's quite true that I
might be doing the girl a cruel injustice all the
time ; but how am I to be sure of that ? I am
only sure that her mother was hanged for one
of the most merciless murders committed in
our time. Pass the match-box. My pipe's out,
and my confession of faith has come to an end.'

It was useless to dispute with a man who
possessed his command of language. At the
same time, there was a bright side to the poor
Minister's prospects which the Doctor had
failed to see. It was barely possible that I
might succeed in putting my positive friend in
the wrong. I tried the experiment, at any
rate.

You seem to have forgotten I reminded
him, ' that the child will have every advantage
that education can offer to her, and will be accustomed
from her earliest years to restraining
and purifying influences, in a clergyman's
household.'

Now that he was enjoying the fumes of
tobacco, the Doctor was as placid and sweet-tempered
as a man could be.

Quite true,' he said.

Do you doubt the influence of religion ?' I
asked sternly.

He answered sweetly : * Not at all.'

Or the influence of kindness ?'
'Oh dear, no!'
Or the force of example ?'
1 wouldn't deny it for the Avorld.'
I had not expected this extraordinary
docility. The Doctor had got the upper
hand of me again — a state of things that I
might have found it hard to endure, but for a
call of duty which put an end to our sitting.
One of the female warders appeared with a
message from the condemned cell. The
Prisoner wished to see the Governor and the
Medical Officer.

Is she ill ?' the Doctor inquired.

No, sir.

Hysterical ? or agitated, perhaps ?'
As easy and composed, sir, as a person can
be.'

We set forth together for the condemned

cell.

THE MURDERESS CONSULTS THE AUTHORITIES.

There was a considerate side to my friend's
character, which showed itself when the
warder had left us.

He was especially anxious to be careful of
what he said to a woman in the Prisoner's
terrible situation ; especially in the event of
her having been really subjected to the influence
of religious belief. On the Minister's
own authority, I declared that there was every
reason to adopt this conclusion ; and in support
of what I had said I showed him the
confession. It only contained a few lines,
acknowledging that she had committed the

murder, and that she deserved her sentence.
From the planning of the crime to the commission
of the crime, I was in my right senses
throughout. I knew what I was doing.'
With that remarkable disavowal of the defence
set up by her advocate, the confession ended.

My colleague read the paper, and handed it
back to me without making any remark. 1
asked if he suspected the Prisoner of feigning
conversion to please the Minister.

She shall not discover it,' he answered
gravely, * if I do.'

It would not be true to say that the Doctor's
obstinacy had shaken my belief in the good
result of the Minister's interference. I may,
however, acknowledge that I felt some misgivings,
which were not dispelled when I
found myself in the presence of the Prisoner.

I had expected to see her employed in reading
the Bible. The good book was closed,
and was not even placed within her reach.

The occupation to which she was devoting
herself astonished and repelled me.

Some carelessness on the part of the attendant
had left on the table the writing materials
that had been needed for her confession. She
was using them now — when death on the
scaffold was literally within a few hours of her
to sketch a portrait of the female warder,
who was on the watch! The Doctor and T
looked at each other ; and now the sincerity
of her repentance was something that I began
to question, too.

She laid down the pen, and proceeded
quietly to explain herself

Even the little time that is left to me
proves to be a weary time to get through,' she
said. ' I am making a last use of the talent
for drawing and catching a likeness, which has
been one of my gifts since I was a girl. You
look as if you didn't approve of such employment
as this for a woman who is going to i^e

hanged. Well, sir, I have no doubt you are
right.' She paused, and tore up the portrait.
If I have misbehaved myself,' she resumed,
I make amends. To find you in an indulgent
frame of mind is of importance to me just
now. I have a favour to ask of you. May
the warder leave the cell for a few minutes ?'

Giving the woman permission to withdraw
for awhile, I waited with some anxiety to hear
what the Prisoner wanted of me.

I have something to say to you,' she
proceeded, 'on the subject of executions. The
face of a person who is going to be hanged is
hidden, as I have been told, by a white cap
drawn over it. Is that true ?'

How another man might have felt, in my
place, I cannot, of course, say. To my mind,
such a question — on her lips — was too shocking
to be answered in words. I bowed.

And the body is buried,' she went on, ' in
the prison ?'

I could remain silent no longer. ' Is there
no human feeling left in you ?' I burst out.
What do these horrid questions mean ?'

Don't be angry with me, sir ; you shall
hear directly. I want to know first if I am to
be buried in the prison ?'

I replied as before, by a bow.

'Now,' she said, 'I may tell you what I
mean. In the autumn of last year I was
taken to see some waxwork. Portraits of
criminals were among them. There was one

portrait ' She hesitated ; her infernal

self-possession failed her at last. The colour
left her face ; she was no longer able to look
at me firmly. ' There was one portrait she
resumed, * that had been taken after the execution.
The face was so hideous ; it was swollen
to such a size in its frightful deformity — oh,
sir, don't let me be seen in that state, even by
the strangers who bury me! Use your influence
— forbid them to take the cap off my

face when I am dead — order them to bury mein
it, and I swear to you Til meet death tomorrow
as coolly as the boldest man that ever
mounted the scaffold !' Before I could stop
her, she seized me by the hand, and wrung
it with a furious power that left the mark
of her grasp on me, in a bruise, for days
afterwards. * Will you do it ? she cried.
You're an honourable man ; you will keep
your word. Give me your promise!'

I gave her my promise.

The relief to her tortured spirit expressed
itself horribly in a burst of frantic laughter.
I can't help it,' she gasped ; 'I'm so
happy.'

My enemies said of me, when I got my
appointment, that I was too excitable a man
to be governor of a prison. Perhaps they
were not altogether wrong. Anyhow, the
quick-witted Doctor saw some change in me,
which T was not aware of myself He took

my arm, and led me out of the cell. ' Leave
her to me,' he whispered. ' The fine edge
of my nerves was worn off long ago in the
hospital.'

When we met again, I asked what had
passed between the Prisoner and himself.

'I gave her time to recover he told me;
and, except that she looked a little paler than
usual, there was no trace left of the frenzy
that you remember. '* I ought to apologize
for troubling you," she said ; " but it is perhaps
natural that I should think, now and then, of
what is to happen to me tomorrow morning.
As a medical man, you will be able to enlighten
me. Is death by hanging a painful
death ?" She had put it so politely that I
felt bound to answer her. '' If the neck
happens to be broken," I said, *' hanging is
a sudden death ; fright and pain (if there is
any pain) are both over in an instant. As to
the other form of death which is also possible

(I mean death by suffocation), I must own as
an honest man that I know no more about
it than you do." After considering a little,
she made a sensible remark, and followed it by
an embarrassing request. " A great deal," she
said, " must depend on the executioner. I
am not afraid of death, Doctor. Why should
T be ? My anxiety about my little girl is set
at rest ; I have nothing left to live for. But
I don't like pain. Would you mind telling
the executioner to be careful ? Or would it
be better if I spoke to him myself ?" I
said I thought it would come with a better
grace from herself. She understood me
directly ; and we dropped the subject. Are
you surprised at her coolness, after your
experience of her ?'

I confessed that I was surprised.

Think a little,' the Doctor said. ' The one
sensitive place in that woman's nature is the
place occupied by her self-esteem.'

I objected to this that she had shown fondness
for her child.

My friend disposed of the objection with his
customary readiness.

^ The maternal instinct,' he said. ' A cat is
fond of her kittens ; a cow is fond of her calf
No, sir, the one cause of that outbreak of
passion which so shocked you — a genuine outbreak,
beyond all doubt — is to be found in the
vanity of a fine feminine creature, overpowered
by a horror of looking hideous, even after
her death. Do you know I rather like that
woman ?'

Is it possible that you are in earnest ?' I
asked.

I know as well as you do,' he answered,
that this is neither a time nor a place for
jesting. The fact is, the Prisoner carries out
an idea of mine. It is my positive conviction
that the worst murders — I mean murders deliberately
planned — are committed by persons

absolutely deficient in that part of the moral
organization which feels. The night before
they are hanged, they sleep. On their last
morning, they eat a breakfast. Incapable of
realizing the horror of murder, they are incapable
of realizing the horror of death. Do
you remember the last murderer who was
hanged here — a gentleman's coachman who
killed his wife ? He had but two anxieties
while he was waiting for execution. One was
to get his allowance of beer doubled, and the
other was to be hanged in his coachman's
livery. No ! no ! these wretches are all alike ;
they are human creatures born with the temperaments
of tigers. Take my word for it, we
need feel no anxiety about tomorrow. The
Prisoner will face the crowd round the scaffold
With composure; and the people will say, 'she
(lied same." '

VOL. I.

THE MINISTER SAYS Good-bye.

The Capital Punishment of the Prisoner is
in no respect connected with my purpose in
writing the present narrative. Neither do I
desire to darken these pages by describing in
detail an act of righteous retribution which
must present, by the nature of it, a scene of
horror. For these reasons I ask to be excused,
if I limit what I must needs say of the execution
within the compass of a few words — and
pass on.

The one self-possessed person among us was
the miserable woman who suffered the penalty
of death.

Not very discreetly, as I think, the Chaplain

asked her if she had truly repented. She
answered : ' I have confessed the crime, sir.
What more do you want ?' To my mind —
still hesitating between the view that believes
-with the Minister, and the view that doubts
with the Doctor — this re2:)ly leaves a way open
to hope of her salvation. Her last words tome,
as she mounted the steps of the scaffold,
were: * Remember your promise.' It was
easy for me to be true to my word. At that
bygone time, no difficulties were placed in
my way by such precautions as are now
observed in the conduct of executions within
the walls of the prison. From the time of her
death to the time of her burial, no livings creature
saw her face. She rests, veiled, in her
prison grave.

Let me now turn to living interests, and
to scenes removed from the thunder-clouds
of crime.

^ 7|^ T|F ^F vF"

On the next day I received a visit from the
Minister.

His first words entreated me not to allude
to the terrible event of the previous day. ' I
cannot escape thinking of it,' he said, ' but I
may avoid speaking of it.' This seemed to me
to be the misplaced confidence of a weak man
in the refuge of silence. By way of changing
the subject, I spoke of the child. There would
be serious difficulties to contend with (as I
ventured to suggest), if he remained in the
town, and allowed his new responsibilities to
become the subject of public talk.

His reply to this agreeably surprised me.
There were no difficulties to be feared.

The state of his wife's health had obliged
him (acting under medical advice) to try the
influence of her native air. An interval of
some months might elapse before the good
effect of the change had sufficiently declared
itself ; and a return to the peculiar climate of

the town might bring on a relapse. There
had consequently been no alternative but to
resign his charge. Only on that day the
resignation had been accepted — with expressions
of regret sincerely reciprocated by himself.
He proposed to leave the town immediately
; and one of the objects of his visit
was to bid me good-bye.

The next place I live in,' he said, ' will be
more than a hundred miles away. At that
distance I may hope to keep events concealed
which must be known only to ourselves. Sofar
as I can see, there are no risks of discovery
lurking in this place. My servants (only two
in number) have both been born here, and
have both told my wife that they have no wish
to go away. As to the person who introduced
herself to me by the name of Miss
Chance, she was traced to the railway station
yesterday afternoon, and took her ticket for
London.'

I congratulated the Minister on the good
fortune which had befriended him, so far.

You will understand how carefully I have
provided against being deceived, ' he continued,
*when I tell you what my plans are. The
persons among whom my future lot is cast —
and the child herself, of course — must never
suspect that the new member of my family is
other than my own daughter. This is deceit,
I admit ; but it is deceit that injures no one. I
hope you see the necessity for it, as I do.'

There could be no doubt of the necessity.

If the child was described as adopted, there
would be curiosity al:out the circumstances,
and inquiries relating to the parents. Prevaricating
replies lead to suspicion, and suspicion
to discovery. But for the wise course
which the Minister had decided on taking, the

CI I

poor child's life might have been darkened by
the horror of the mother's crime, and the
infamy of the mother's death.

Having quieted my friend's needless scruples
by this perfectly sincere expression of opinion,
I ventured to approach the central figure in
his domestic circle, by means of a question
relating to his wife. How had that lady
received the unfortunate little creature, for
whose appearance on the home-scene she must
have been entirely unprepared ?

The Minister's manner showed some embarrassment
; he prefaced what he had to tell
me with praises of his wife, equally creditable
no doubt to both of them. The beauty of the
child, the pretty ways of the child, he said,
fascinated that admirable woman at first sight,
It was not to be denied that she had felt, and
had expressed, misgivings, on being informed
of the circumstances under which the Minister's
act of mercy had been performed. But her
mind was too well balanced to incline to this
state of feeling, when her husband had
addressed her in defence of his conduct. She

then understood that the true merit of a good
action consisted in patiently facing the sacrifices
involved. Her interest in the new
daughter being, in this way, ennobled by
a sense of Christian duty, there had been no
further difference of opinion between the
married pair.

I listened to this plausible explanation with
interest, but, at the same time, with doubts of
the lasting nature of the lady's submission to
circumstances ; suggested, perhaps, by the
constraint in the Minister's manner. It was
well for both of us when we changed the
subject. He reminded me of the discouraging
view which the Doctor had taken of the prospect
before him.

I will not attempt to decide whether your
friend is right or wrong,' he said. ' Trusting,
as I do, in the mercy of God, I look hopefully
to a future time when all that is brightest and
best in the nature of my adopted child will be

developed under my fostering care. If evil
tendencies show themselves, my reliance will
be confidently placed on pious example, on
religious instruction, and, above all, on intercession
by prayer. Repeat to your friend,' he
concluded, ' what you have just heard me say.
Let him ask himself if he could confront the
uncertain future with my cheerful submission
and my steadfast hope.'

He entrusted me with that message, and
gave me his hand. So we parted.

I agreed with him, I admired him ; but my
faith seemed to want sustaining sower, as
compared with his faith. On his own showing
(as it appeared to me), there would be
two forces in a state of conflict in the child's
nature as she grew up — inherited evil against
inculcated good. Try as I might, I failed to
feel the Minister's comforting conviction as to
which of the two would win.

THE GOVERNOR RECEIVES A VISIT.

A EEW days after the good man had left us,
I met with a serious accident, caused by a
false step on the stone stairs of the prison.

The long illness which followed this misfortune,
and my removal afterwards (in the
interests of my recovery) to a milder climate
than the climate of England, obliged me to
confide the duties of governor of the prison to
a representative. I was absent from my post
for rather more than a year. During this
interval no news reached me from my reverend
friend.

Having returned to the duties of my office,
I thought of writing to the Minister. While

the proposed letter was still in contemplation,
I was informed that a lady wished to see me.
She sent in her card. My visitor proved to
be the Minister's wife.

I observed her with no ordinary attention
when she entered the room.

Her dress was simple ; her scanty light
hair, so far as I could see it under her bonnet,
was dressed with taste. The paleness of her
lips, and the faded colour in her face, suggested
that she was certainly not in good health
Two peculiarities struck me in her persona
appearance. I never remembered having seen
any other person with such a singularly narrow'
and slanting forehead as this lady presented
and I was impressed, not at all agreeably, b}
the flashing shifting expression in her eyes
On the other hand, let me own that I was
powerfully attracted and interested by the
beauty of her voice. Its line variety of compass,
and its musical resonance of tone, fell

with such enchantment on the ear, that I
should have liked to put a book of poetry
into her hand, and to have heard her read it
in summer-time, accompanied by the music of
a rocky stream.

The object of her visit — so far as she explained
it at the outset — appeared to be to
offer her congratulations on my recovery, and
to tell me that her husband had assumed the
charge of a church, in a large town not far
from her birthplace.

Even those commonplace words were made
interesting by her delicious voice. But, however
sensitive to sweet sounds a man may be,
there are limits to his capacity for deceiving
himself — especially when he happens to be
enlightened by experience of humanity within
the walls of a prison. I had, it may be
remembered, already doubted the lady's good
temper, judging from her husband's overwrought
description of her virtues. Her eyes

looked at me furtively ; and her manner,
gracefully self-possessed as it was, suggested
that she had something of a delicate, or disagreeable,
nature to say to me, and that she
was at a loss how to approach the subject so
as to produce the right impression on my
mind at the outset. There was a momentary
silence between us. For the sake of saying-something,
I asked how she and the Minister
liked their new place of residence.

Our new place of residence,' she answered,
has been made interesting by a very unexpected
event — an event (how shall I describe
it ?) which has increased our happiness, and
enlarged our family circle.'

There she stopped ; expecting me, as I
fancied, to guess what she meant. A woman,
and that woman a mother, might have fulfilled
her anticipations. A man, and that
man not listening attentively, was simply
puzzled.

Pray excuse my stupidity,' I said ; ' I
don't quite understand you.'

The lady's temper looked at me out of the
lady's shifting eyes, and hid itself again in a
moment. She set herself right in my estimation
])y taking the whole blame of our
little misunderstanding on her own innocent
shoulders.

I ought to have spoken more plainly she
said. ' Let me try what I can do now. After
many years of disappointment in my married
life, it has pleased Providence to bestow on me
the happiness — the inexpressible happiness —
of being a mother. My baby is a sweet little
girl ; and my one regret is that I cannot nurse
her myself

My languid interest in the Minister's wife
was not stimulated by the announcement of
this domestic event.

I felt no wish to see the ' sweet little girl ;'
I was not even reminded of another example

of long-deferred maternity, which had occurred
within the limits of my own family circle. All
my sympathies attached themselves to the sad
little figure of the adopted child. I remembered
the poor baby on my knee, enchanted
by the ticking of my watch — I thought of
her, peacefully and prettily asleep under the
horrid shelter of the condemned cell — and it
is hardly too much to say that my heart was
heavy, dien I compared her prospects with
the prospects of her baby-rival. Kind as he
was, conscientious as he was, could the
Minister be expected to admit to an equal
share in his love the child endeared to him
as a father, and the child dio merely
reminded him of an act of mercy ? As
for his wife, it seemed the merest waste of
time to put her state of feeling (placed
between the two children) to the test of
inquiry. I tried the useless experiment,
nevertheless.

It is pleasant to think,' I began, ' that your

other daughter '

She interrupted me, with the utmost gentleness
: ' Do you mean the child that my husband
was foolish enough to adopt ?'

Say rather fortunate enough to adopt,' I
persisted. ' As your own little girl grows up,
she weill want a playfellow. And she will
find a playfellow in that other child, whom
the good Minister has taken for his own.'

No, my dear sir — not if I can prevent it.*

The contrast between the cruelty of her
intention, and the musical beauty of the voice
which politely expressed it in those words,
really startled me. I was at a loss how to
answer her, at the very time when I ought to
have been most ready to speak.

You must surely understand,' she went
on, ^ that we don't want another person's
child, now we have a little darling of our
own ?'

Does your husband agree with you in th it
view ?' I asked.

Oh dear, no ! He said what you said
just now, and (oddly enough) almost in the
same words. But I don't at all despair of
persuading him to change his mind — and you
can help me.'

She made that audacious assertion with
such an appearance of feeling perfectly sure
of me, that my politeness gave way under the
strain laid on it. ' What do you mean ?' I
asked sharply.

Not in the least impressed by my change of
manner, she took from the pocket of her dressa
printed paper. * You will find what I mean
there she replied — and put the paper into my
hand.

It was an appeal to the charitable public,
occasioned by the enlargement of an orphan -
asylum, with which I had been connected for
many years. What she meant was plain

VOL. I. G

enough now. I said nothing : I only looked
at her.

Pleased to find that I was clever enough to
guess what she meant, on this occasion, the
Minister's wife informed me that the circumstances
were all in our favour. She still persisted
in taking me into partnership — the
circumstances were in our flavour.

In two years more,' she explained, ' the
child of that detestable creature who was
hanged — do you know, I cannot even look at
the little wretch without thinking of the
gallows ? — will be old enough (with your
interest to help us) to be received into the
asylum. What a relief it will be to get rid of
that child ! And how hard I shall work at
canvassing for subscribers' votes ! Your name
will be a tower of strength when I use it as a
reference. Pardon me — you are not looking
so pleasantly as usual. Do you see some
obstacles ir our wav T

^ I see two obstacles

What can they possibly be ?*

For the second time, my politeness gave
way under the strain laid on it. * You know
perfectly well I said, ' what one of the obstacles
is.'

Am I to understand that you contemplate
any serious resistance on the part of my husband
?

Certainly !'

She was unaffectedly amused by my simplicity.


Are you a single man ?' she asked.

I am a widower.'

Then your experience ought to tell you
that I know every weak point in the Minister's
character. I can tell him, on your authority,
that the hateful child will be placed in competent
and kindly hands — and I have my own
sweet baby to plead for me. With these advantages
in my favour, do you actually 



pose I can fail to make wy way of thinking
Ms way of thinking ? You must have forgotten
your own married life! Suppose we
go on to the second of jour two obstacles. I
hope it will be better worth considering than
the first.'

The second obstacle will not disappoint
you I answered ; ' I am the obstacle, this
time.*

You refuse to help me ?'
Positively.'

Perhaps reflection may alter your resolution
?'

Reflection will do nothing of the kind.*
You are rude, sir !'

In speaking to you, madam, I have no
alternative but to speak plainly.*

She rose. Her shifting eyes, for once,
looked at me steadily.

What sort of enemy have I made of you ?'
she asked. ' A passive enemy who is content

with refusing to help me ? Or an active
enemy who will write to my husband ?'

It depends entirely I told her, ' on what
your husband does. If he questions me about
you, I shall tell him the truth.*

And if not ?'

In that case, I shall hope to forget that
you ever favoured me with a visit.'

In making this reply I was guiltless of any
malicious intention. AYhat evil interpretation
she placed on my words it is impossible forme
to say ; I can only declare that some intolerable
sense of injury hurried her into an
outbreak of rage. Her voice, strained for the
first time, lost its tuneful beauty of tone.

Come and see us in two years' time,' she
burst out — ' and discover the orphan of the
gallows in our house if you can ! If your
Asylum won't take her, some other Charity
will. Ha, Mr. Governor, I deserve my disappointment!
I ought to have remembered

that you are only a gaoler after all. And
what is a gaoler ? Proverbially a brute. Do
you hear that ? A brute !'

Her strength suddenly failed her. She
dropped back into the chair from which she
had risen, with a faint cry of pain. A ghastly
pallor stole over her face. There was wine
on the sideboard ; I filled a glass. She refused
to take it. At that time in the day, the
Doctor's duties required his attendance in the
prison. I instantly sent for him. After a
moment's look at her, he took the wine out of
my hand, and held the glass to her lips.

'Drink it,' he said. She still refused.
Drink it,' he reiterated, ' or you will die.'

That frightened her ; she drank the wine.
The Doctor waited for awhile with his fingers
on her pulse. * She will do now,' he said.

Can I go ?' she asked.

Go wherever you please, madam — so long
as you don't go upstairs in a hurry.'

She smiled: 'I understand you, sir — and
thank you fur your advice

I asked the Doctor, when we were alone,
what made him tell her not to go upstairs ina
hurry.

What I felt,' he answered, ' when I had
my fingers on her pulse. You heard her say
that she understood me.'

Yes ; but I don't know what she meant.'

She meant, probably, that her own doctor
had warned her as I did.'

Something seriously wrong with lier
health ?'

Yes.'

What is it ?

'Heart.'

MISS CHANCE REAPPEARS.

A WEEK had passed, since the Minister's wife
had left me, when I received a letter from the
Minister himself

After surprising me, as he innocently supposed,
by announcing the birth of his child,
he mentioned some circumstances connected
with that event, which I now heard for the
first time.

Within an easy journey of the populous
scene of my present labours,' he wrote, * there
is a secluded country village called Low Lanes.
The rector of the place is my wife's brother.
Before the birth of our infant, he had asked
his sister to stay for awhile at his house ; and

the doctor thought she might safely be allowed
to accept the invitation. Through some error
in the customary calculations, as I suppose,
the child was born unexpectedly at the rectory ;
and the ceremony of baptism was performed at
the church, under circumstances which I am
not able to relate within the limits of a letter.
Let me only say that I allude to this incident
without any sectarian bitterness of feeling —
for I am no enemy to the Church of England.
You have no idea what treasures of virtue and
treasures of beauty, maternity has revealed in
my wife's sweet nature. Other mothers, in
her proud position, might find their love cooling
towards the poor child whom we have
adopted. But my household is irradiated by
the presence of an angel, who gives an equal
share in her affections to the two little ones
alike.'

In this semi-hysterical style of writing, the
poor man unconsciously told me how cunningly

and how cruelly his wife was deceiving
him.

I longed to exhibit that wicked woman in
her true character — but what could I do ? She
must have been so favoured by circumstances
as to be able to account for her absence from
home, without exciting the slightest suspicion
of the journey which she had really taken. If
I declared in my reply to the Minister's letter
that I had received her in my rooms, and if I
repeated the conversation that had taken place,
what would the result be ? She would find an
easy refuge in positive denial of the truth —
and, in that case, which of us would her
infatuated husband believe ?

The one part of the letter which I read with
some satisfaction was the end of it.

I was here informed that the Minister's
plans for concealing the parentage of his
adopted daughter had proved to be entirely
successful. The members of the new domestic

household believed the two children to be
infant sisters. Neither was there any danger
of the adopted child being identified (as the
oldest child of the two) by consultation of the
registers.

Before he left our town, the Minister had
seen for himself that no baptismal name had
been added, after the birth of the daughter of
the murderess had been registered, and that no
entry of baptism existed in the registers kept
in places of worship. He drew the inference —
in all probability a true inference, considering
the characters of the parents — that the child
had never been baptized ; and he performed
the ceremony privately, abstaining, for obvious
reasons, from adding her Christian name to
the imperfect register of her birth. ' I am not
aware he wrote, 'whether I have, or have not,
committed an offence against the Law. In any
case, I may hope to have made atonement by
obedience to the Gospel.'

Six weeks passed, and I heard from my
reverend friend once more.

His second letter presented a marked contrast
to the first. It was written in sorrow and
anxiety, to inform me of an alarming change
for the worse in his wife's health. I showed
the letter to my medical colleague. After
reading it he predicted the event that might be
expected, in two words : — Sudden death.

On the next occasion when I heard from the
Minister, the Doctor's grim reply proved to bea
prophecy fulfilled.

When we address expressions of condolence
to bereaved friends, the principles of popular
hypocrisy sanction indiscriminate lying as a
duty which we owe to the dead — no matter
what their lives may have been — because they
are dead. Within my own little sphere, I have
always been silent, when I could not osier to
afflicted persons expressions of sympathy
which I honestly felt. To have condoled with

the Minister on the loss that he had sustained
by the death of a woman, self betrayed to me
his shamelessly deceitful, and pitilessly determined
to reach her own cruel ends, would have
been to degrade myself by telling a deliberate
lie. I expressed in my answer all that an
honest man naturally feels, when he is writing
to a friend in distress ; carefully abstaining
from any allusion to the memory of his wife,
or to the place which her death had left vacant
in his household. My letter, I am sorry to
say, disappointed and offended him. He wrote
to me no more, until years had passed, and
time had exerted its influence in producing a
more indulgent frame of mind. These letters
of a later date have been preserved, and will
probably be used, at the right time, for purposes
of explanation with which I may be
connected in the future.

TT ^ ^ ^ ^

The correspondent whom I had now lost

was succeeded by a gentleman entirely unknown
to me.

Those reasons which induced me to conceal
the names of persons, while I was relating
events in the prison, do not apply to correspondence
with a stranger writing from another
place. I may, therefore, mention that Mr.
Dunboyne, of Fairmount, on the west coast of
Ireland, was the writer of the letter now
addressed to me. He proved, to my surprise,
to be one of the relations, whom the Prisoner
under sentence of death had not cared to see,
when I offered her the opportunity of saying
farewell. Mr. Dunboyne was a brother-in-law
of the murderess. He had married her
sister.

His wife, he informed me, had died in childbirth,
leaving him but one consolation — a boy,
who already recalled all that was brightest and
best in his lost mother. The father was
naturally anxious that the son should never

become acquainted with the disgrace that had
befallen the family.

The letter then proceeded in these terms :
I heard yesterday, for the first time, by
means of an old newspaper-cutting sent to me
by a friend, that the miserable woman who
suffered the ignominy of public execution has
left an infant child. Can you tell me what
has become of the orphan ? If this little girl
is, as I fear, not well provided for, I only do
what my wife would have done if she had
lived, by offering to make the child's welfare
my especial care. I am willing to place her in
an establishment well known to me, in which
she will be kindly treated, well educated, and
fitted to earn her own living honourably in
later life.

If you feel some surprise at finding that
my good intentions towards this ill-fated niece
of mine do not go to the length of receiving
her as a member of my own family, I beg to

submit some considerations which may perhaps
weigh with you as they have weighed with
me.

In the first ]")hace, there is at least possibility
— however carefully I might try to conceal
it — that the child's parentage would sooner
or later be discovered. In the second place
(and assuming that the parentage had been
successfully concealed), if this girl and my
boy grew up together, there is another possibility
to be reckoned with : they might become
attached to each other. Does the father live
who would allow his son ignorantly to marry
the daughter of a convicted murderess ? I
should have no alternative but to part them
cruelly by revealing the truth.'

The letter ended with some complimentary
expressions addressed to myself. And the
question was : how ought I to answer it ?

My correspondent had strongly impressed
me in his favour ; I could not doubt that he

was an honourable man. But the interest of
the Minister in keeping his own benevolent
action secure from the risk of discovery — increased
as that interest was by the filial
relations of the two children towards him, now
publicly established —-had, as I could not
doubt, the paramount claim on me. The
absolutely safe course to take was to admit no
one, friend or stranger, to our confidence. I
replied, expressing sincere admiration of Mr.
Dunboyne's motives, and merely informing
him that the child was already provided for.

After that, I heard no more of the Irish
gentleman.

It is perhaps hardly necessary to add that I
kept the Minister in ignorance of my correspondence
with Mr. Dunboyne. I was too well
acquainted with my friend's sensitive and self-tormenting
nature to let him know that a
relative of the murderess was living, and was
aware that she had left a child.

VOL. T. 7

A last event remains to be related, before
I close these pages.

During the year of which I am now writing,
our Chaplain added one more to the many
examples that I have seen of his generous
readiness to serve his friends. He had arranged
to devote his annual leave of absence
to a tour among the English Lakes, when he
received a letter from a clergyman resident in
London, whom he had known from the time
when they had been schoolfellows. This old
friend wrote under circumstances of the severest
domestic distress, which made it absolutely
necessary that he should leave London for
awhile. Having failed to find a representative
who could relieve him of his clerical duties, he
applied to the Chaplain to recommend a clergyman
who might be in a position to help him.
My excellent colleague gave up his holiday-plans
without hesitation, and went to London
himself.

On his return, I asked if he had seen anything
of some acquaintances of his and of mine,
who were then visitors to the metropolis. He
smiled significantly when he answered me.

I have a card to deliver from an acquaintance
whom you have not mentioned,' he said ;
and I rather think it will astonish you.'

It simply puzzled me. When he gave me
the card, this is what I found printed on it :

Mrs. Tenbruggen (of South Beveland).'

Well r said the Chaplain.

Well,' I answered ; ' I never even heard of
Mrs. Tenbruggen, of South Beveland. Who
is she ?'

I married the lady to a foreign gentleman,
only last week, at my friend's church,' the
Chaplain replied. ' Perhaps you may remember
her maiden name ?

He mentioned the name of the dangerous
creature who had first presented herself to mein
chare of the Prisoner's child — otherwise

7—2

Miss Elizabeth Chance. The reappearance of
this woman on the scene — although she was
only represented by her card — caused me a
feeling of vague uneasiness, so contemptibly
superstitious in its nature, that I now remember
it with shame. I asked a stupid
question :

'- How did it happen ?'

In the ordinary course of such things,' my
friend said. ' They were married by license, in
their parish church. The bridegroom was a
fine tall man, with a bold eye and a dashing
manner. The bride and I recognised each
other directly. When Miss Chance had become
Mrs. Tenbruggen, she took me aside, and gave
me her card. " Ask the Governor to accept
it," she said, "in remembrance of the time
when he took me for a nursemaid. Tell him
I am married to a Dutch gentleman of hioii
family. If he ever comes to Holland, we shall
be glad to see him in our residence at South

Beveland.'' There is her message to you,
repeated word for Avoid.'

I am glad she is going to live out of
England

Why ? Surely you have no reason to fear
her?'

None whatever.'

You are thinking perhaps of somebody
else ?'

I was thinking of the Minister ; but it
seemed to be safest not to say so.

My pen is laid aside, and my many pages
of writing have been sent to their destination.
What I undertook to do, is now done.
To take a metaphor from the stage — the
curtain falls here on the Governor and the
Prison.

Helena's diary.

We both said good-night, and went up to
our room with a new object in view. By
our father's advice we had resolved on keeping
diaries, for the first time in our lives,
and had pledged ourselves to begin before we
went to bed.

Slowly and silently and lazily, my sister
sauntered to her end of the room, and seated
herself at her writing-table. On the desk lay
a nicely bound book, full of blank pages.
The word ' Journal ' was printed on it in gold
letters, and there was fitted to the covers a
bright brass lock and key. A second journal.

exactly similar in every respect to the first,
was placed on the writing-table at my end of
the room. I opened my book. The sight of
the blank leaves irritated me ; they were so
smooth, so spotless, so entirely ready to do
their duty. I took too deep a dip of ink, and
began the first entry in my diary by making a
blot. This was disco-aging. I got up, and
looked out of window.

Helena T

My sister's voice could hardly have addressed
me in a more weary tone, if her
pen had been at work all night, relating
domestic events. ' Well !' I said. ' What
is it ?'

Have you done already ?' she asked.

I showed her the blot. My sister Eunice
(the strangest as well as the dearest of girls)
always blurts out what she has in her mind
at the time. She fixed her eyes gravely on
my spoilt page, and said : * That comforts

me I crossed the room, and looked at her
book. She had not even summoned energy-enough
to make a blot. ' What will Papa
thmk of us,' she said, ' if we don't begin tonight
?'

Why not begin I suggested, ' by writing
down what he said, when he gave us our
journals ? Those wise words of advice will
be in their proper place on the first page of
the new books.'

Not at all a demonstrative girl naturally ;
not ready with her tears, not liberal with her
caresses, not fluent in her talk, Eunice was
affected by my proposal in a manner wonderful
to see. She suddenly developed into an
excitable person — I declare she kissed me.
^ Oh,' she burst out, ' how clever you are !
The very thing to write about ; I'll do it
directly.'

She really did it directly; without once
stopping to consider, without once waiting

to ask my advice. Line after line, I heard
her noisy pen hurrying to the bottom of a
first page, and getting three-parts of the way
towards the end of a second page, before she
closed her diary. I reminded her that she
had not turned the key, in the lock which was
intended to keep her writing private.

'It's not worth whiles she answered. 'Anybody
who cares to do it may read what I
write. Good-night.'

The singular change which I had noticed
in her began to disappear, when she set about
her preparations for bed. I noticed the old
easy indolent movements again, and that
regular and deliberate method of brushing
her hair, which I can never contemplate without
feeling a stupefying influence that has
helped me to many a delicious night's sleep.
She said her prayers in her favourite corner
of the room, and laid her head on the pillow
with the luxurious little sigh which announces

that she is falling asleep. This
reappearance of her usual habits was really
a relief to me. Eunice in a state of excitement
is Eunice exhibiting an unnatural
spectacle.

The next thing I did was to take the liberty
which she had already sanctioned — I mean the
liberty of reading what she had written. Here
it is, copied exactly :

I am not half so fond of anybody as I am
of Papa. He is always kind, he is always
right. I love him, I love him, I love him.

But this is not how I meant to begin. I
]must tell how he talked to us ; I wish he was
here to tell it himself.

'He said to me: "You are cfettino- glazier
than ever, Eunice." He said to Helena :
You are feeling the influence of Eunice's
example." He said to both of us : " You are
too ready, my dear children, to sit with your
hands on your laps, looking at nothing and

thinking of nothing ; I want to try a new
way of employing your leisure time."

He opened a parcel on the table. He
made each of us a present of a beautiful book,
called "Journal." He said: "When you
have nothing to do, my dears, in the evening,
employ yourselves in keeping a diary of the
events of the day. It will be a useful record
in many ways, and a good moral discipline
for young girls." Helena said : " Oh, thank
you !" I said the same, but not so cheerfully.


The truth is, I feel out of spirits now if I
think of Papa ; I am not easy in my mind
about him. When he is very much interested,
there is a quivering in his face which I don't
remember in past times. He seems to have
got older and thinner, all on a sudden. He
shouts (which he never used to do) when he
threatens somers at sermon-time. Being in
dreadful earnest about our souls, he is of

course obliged to speak of the devil ; but he
never used to hit the harmless pulpit cushion
with his fist, as he does now. Nobody seems
to have seen these things but me ; and now I
have noticed them what ought I to do ? I
don't know ; I am ceram of nothing, except
what I have put in at the top of page one : — I
love him, I love him, I love him.'

* * * *

There this very curious entry ended. It
was easy enough to discover the influence
which had made my slow-minded sister so
ready with her memory and her j^en — so
ready, in short, to do anything and everything,
provided her heart was in it, and her
father was in it.

But Eunice is wrong, let me tell her, in
what she says of myself.

I, too, have seen the sad change in my
father ; but I happen to know that he dislikes
having it spoken of at home, and I have

kept my painful discoveries to myself. Unhappily,
the best medical advice is beyond our
reach. The one really competent doctor in
this place is known to be an infidel. But for
that shocking obstacle I might have persuaded
my father to see him. As for the other two
doctors whom he has consulted, at different
times, one talked about suppressed gout, and
the other told him to take a year's holiday and
enjoy himself on the Continent.

The clock has just struck twelve. I have
been writing and copying till my ej^es are
heavy, and I want to follow Eunice's example
and sleep as soundly as she does. We have
made a strange beginning of this journalizing
experiment. I wonder how long it "will goon,
and what will come of it.

SECOND DAY.

I begin to be afraid that I am as stupid —
no \ that is not a nice word to use — let me

say, as simple as dear Eunice. A diary means
a record of the events of the day; and not one
of the events of yesterday appears in my
sister s journal or in mine. Well, it is easy
to set that mistake rif!:ht. Our lives are so
dull (but I would not say so in my father's
hearing, for the world) that the record of one
day will be much the same as the record of
another.

After family prayers and breakfast I suffer
my customary persecution at the hands of
the cook. That is to say, I am obliged, being
the housekeeper, to order what wee have to eat.
Oh, how I hate inventing dinners ! and how I
admire the enviable slowness of mind and
laziness of body which have saved Eunice
from undertaking the worries of housekeeping
in her turn ! She can go and work in her
garden, while I am racking my invention to
discover variety in dishes without overstepping
the limits of economy. I suppose

VOL. I. 8

I may confess it privately to myself — how
sorry I am not to have been born a man !

My next employment leads me to my
father's study, to write under his dictation. I
don't complain of this ; it flatters my pride
to feel that I am helping so great a man. At
the same time, I do notice that here, again,
Eunice's little defects have relieved her of
another responsibility. She can neither keep
dictated words in her memory, nor has she
ever been able to learn how to put in her
stops.

After the dictation, I have an hour's time
left for practising music. My sister comes in
from the garden, with her pencil and paint-box,
and practises drawing. Then we go out
for a walk — a delightful walk, if my father
goes too. He has something always new to
tell us, suggested by what we pass on the
way. Then, dinner time comes — not always
a pleasant part of the day to me. Sometimes

I hear paternal complaints (always gentle
complaints) of my housekeeping; sometimes
my sister (I won't say my greedy sister) tells
me I have not even her enough to eat. Poor
father ! Dear Eunice !

Dinner having reached its end, we stroll in
the garden when the weather is fine. When
it rains, we make flannel petticoats for poor
old women. What a horrid thing old age is
to look at ! To be ugly, to be helpless, to be
miserably unfit for all the pleasures of life — I
hope I shall not live to be an old woman.
What would my father say if he saw this?
For his sake, to say nothing of my own feelings,
I shall do well if I make it a custom to
use the lock of my journal.

Our next occupation is to join the Scripture
class for girls, and to help the teacher. This
is a good discipline for Eunice's temper, and
oh, I don't deny it ! — for my temper too. I
may long to box the ears of the whole class,

but it is my duty to keep a smiling face and
to be a model of patience. From the Scripture
class we sometimes go to my father's lecture.
At other times, we may amuse ourselves as
well as we can till the tea is ready. After tea
we read books which instruct us, poetry and
novels being forbidden. When we are tired of
the books we talk. When supper is over, we
have prayers again, and we go to bed. There
is our day. Oh, dear me ! there is our day.

•?'«•-vc- -y-"- ')r

And how has Eunice succeeded in her
second attempt at keeping a diary ? Here is
what she has written. It has one merit that
nobody can deny — it is soon read :

I hope Papa will excuse me ; I have nothing
to Write about to-day.'

Over and over again, I have tried to point
out to my sister the absurdity of calling her
father by the infantine nick-name of Papa. I
have reminded her that lie is (in years, at

least) no longer a child. ' Why don't you
call him father, as I do ?' I asked only the
other day.

She made an absurd reply : ' I used to call
him Papa when I was a little girl.'

That,' I reminded her, ' doesn't justify you
in calling him Papa now.'

And she actually answered : ' Yes, it does
What a strange state of mind! And what
a charming girl, in spite of her mind !

THIRD DAY.

The morning post has brought with it a
promise of some little variety in our lives —
or, to speak more correctly, in the life of my
sister.

Our new and nice friends, the Staveleys,
have written to invite Eunice to pay them a
visit at their house in London. I don't complain
of being left at home. It would be

unfilial indeed if we both of us forsook our
father ; and last year it was my turn to receive
the first invitation, and to enjoy the change of
scene. The Staveleys are excellent people —
strictly pious members of the Methodist Connexion
— and exceedingly kind to my sister and
me. But it was just as well for my moral welfare
that I ended my visit to our friends when
I did. With my fondness for music, I felt the
temptation of the Evil One trying me, when
I saw placards in the street announcing that
the Italian Opera was open. I had no wish
to be a witness of the shameful and sinful
dancing which goes on (I am told) at the
opera; but I did feel my principles shaken
when I thought of the wonderful singers and
the entrancing music. And this, when I knew
what an atmosphere of wickedness people
breathe who enter a theatre ! I reflect with
horror on what mvjlit have happened if I had
remained a little longer in London.

Helping Eunice to pack up, I put her
journal into the box.

You will find something to write about
now I told her. ' While I record everything
that happens at home, you will keep your
diary of all that you do in London, and when
you come back we will show each other what
we have written.' My sister is a dear
creature. ' I don't feel sure of being able
to do it,' she answered; 'but I promise to
try.' Good Eunice !

Eunice's diary.

The air of London feels very heavy. There
is a nasty smell of smoke in London. There
are too many people in London. They seem
to be mostly people in a hurry. The head of a
country girl, when she goes into the streets,
turns giddy — T suppose through not being
used to the noise.

I do hope that it is London that has put me
out of temper. Otherwise, it must be I
myself who am ill-tempered. I have not yet
been one whole day in the Staveleys' house,
and they have offended me already. I don't
Avant Helena to hear of this from other people,

and then to ask me why I concealed it from
her. AYe are to read each other's journals
when we are both at home again. Let her see
what I have to say for myself here.

There are seven Staveleys in all : Mr. and
Mrs. (two) ; three young Masters (five) ; two
young Misses (seven). An eldest Miss and the
second young Master are the only ones at home
at the present time.

Mr., Mrs., and Miss kissed me when I
arrived. Young Master only shook hands.
He looked as if he would have liked to kiss
me too. Why shouldn't he? It wouldn't
have mattered. I don't myself like kissing.
What is the use of it ? Adhere is the pleasure
of it?

Mrs. was so glad to see me ; she took hold
of me by both hands. She said : 'My dear child,
you are improving. You were wretchedly
thin when I saw you last. K'o\y you are
almost as well developed as your sister. I

think you are prettier than your sister.' Mr.
didn't airree to that. He and his wife beo^an
to dispute about me before my face. I do call
that an ao^o-ravatino^ think; to endure.

Mr. said : ' She hasn't got her sister's pretty
gray eyes.'

Mrs. said : ' She has got pretty brown eyes,
which are just as good.'

Mr. said : ' You can't compare her complexion
with Helena's.'

Mrs. said : ' I like Eunice's pale complexion.
So delicate.'

Young Miss struck in : ' I admire Helena's
hair — light brown.'

Young Master took his turn : ' I prefer
Eunice's hair — dark brown.'

Mr. opened his great big mouth, and asked
a question : ' Which of you two sisters is the
oldest ? I forget.'

Mrs. answered for me : ' Helena is the oldest ;
she told us so when she was here last.'

I really could not stand that. ^ You must
be mistaken,' I burst out.

Certainly not, my dear.'

Then Helena was mistaken.' I was unwilling
to say of my sister that she had been
deceiving them, though it did seem only too
likely.

Mr. and Mrs. looked at each other. Mrs.
said : ' You seem to be very positive, Eunice.
Surely, Helena ought to know.'

I said : ^ Helena knows a good deal ; but
she doesn't know which of us is the oldest of
the two.'

Mr. put in another question : 'Do you
know ?'

Sto more than Helena does.'

Mrs. said : ' Don't you keep birthdays ?'

I said : ' Yes ; we keep both our birthdays
on the same day.'

On what day ?'

The first day of the New Year.'

Mr. tried again : ' You can't possibly be
twins ?*

I don't know.'

Perhaps Helena knows ?'

Not she !'

Mrs. took the next question out of her
husband's mouth : ' Come, come, my dear I
you must know how old you are.'

Yes ; I do know that. I'm eighteen.'

And how old is Helena ?'

Helena's eighteen.'

Mrs. turned round to Mr. : ' Do you hear
that !'

Mr. said : ' I shall write to her father, and
ask what it means.'

I said : ' Papa will only tell you what he
told us — years ago.'

What did your father say ?'

He said he had added our two ages together,
and he meant to divide the product
between us. It's so long since, I don't remember

what the product was then. But
I'll tell you what the product is now. Our
two ages come to thirty-six. Half thirty-six
is eighteen. I get one half, and Helena gets
the other. AVhen we ask what it means, and
when friends ask what it means, Papa has got
the same answer for everybody, " I have my
reasons." Tait's all he says — and that's all I
say.'

I had no intention of making Mr. angry,
but he did get angry. He left ois speaking
to me by my Christian name ; he called me
by my surname. He said : ' Let me tell yon,
Miss Gracedieu, it is not becoming in a young
lady to mystify her elders.'

I had heard that it was respectful in a young
lady to call an old gentleman, Sir, and to say.
If you please. I took care to be respectful
now. ' If you please, sir, write to Papa. You
will find that I have spoken the truth.'

A woman opened the door, and said to Mrs.

Staveley : ' Dinner, Ma'am.' That stopped
this nasty exhibition of our tempers. AVe
had a very good dinner.

*****

The next day I wrote to Helena, asking
her what she had really said to the Staveleys
about her age and mine, and telling her what
I had said. I found it too great a trial of my
patience to wait till she could see what I had
written about the dispute in my journal. The
days, since then, have passed, and I have
been too lazy and stupid to keep my diary.

To-day, it is different. ]\Iy head is like a
dark room with the light let into it. I remember
things ; I think I can go on again.

We have religious exercises in this house,
morning and evening, just as we do at home.
(Not to be compared with Papa's religious
exercises.) Two days ago his answer came
to Mr. Staveley's letter. He did just what I
had expected — said I had spoken truly, and

disappointed the family by asking to be excused
if he refrained from entering into explanations.
Mr. said : ' Very odd ;' and Mrs.
agreed with him. Young Miss is not quite
as friendly now, as she was at first. And
young Master was impudent enough to ask
me if * I had got religion.' To conclude the
list of my worries, I received an angry answer
from Helena. 'nobody but a simpleton,' she
wrote, ' would have contradicted me as you
did. AVho but you could have failed to see
that Papa's strange objection to let it be
known which of us is the elder makes us
ridiculous before other people ? My presence
of mind prevented that. You ought to have
been grateful, and have held jour tongue.'
Perhaps Helena is right — but I don't feel it so.
On Sunday, we went to chapel twice. AVe
also had a sermon read at home, and a cold
dinner. In the evening, a hot dispute on
religion between Mr. Staveley and his son. I

don't blame them. After being pious all day
long on Sunday, I have myself felt my piety
give way towards evening.

There is something pleasant in prospect for
tomorrow. All London is going just now
to the exhibition of pictures. We are going
with all London.

I don't know what is the matter with me
to-night. I have positively been to bed,
without going to sleep ! After tossing and
twisting and trying all sorts of positions, I
am so angry with myself that I have got up
again. Atherton do nothing, I have opened
my ink-bottle, and I mean to go on with my
journal.

Now I think of it, it seems likely that the
exhibition of works of art may have upset me.

I found a dreadfully large number of
pictures, matched by a dreadfully large number
of people to look at them. It is not possible

for me to write about what I saw : there was
too much of it. Besides, the show disappointed
me. I would rather write about a disagreement
(oh, dear, another dispute!) I had with Mrs.
Staveley. The cause of it was a famous artist;
not himself, but his works. He exhibited four
pictures — what they call figure subjects. Mrs.
Staveley had a pencil. At every one of the
great man's four pictures, she made a big mark
of admiration on her catalogue. At the fourth
one, she spoke to me : ' Perfectly beautiful,
Eunice, isn't it ?'

I said I didn't know. She said : * You
strange girl, what do you mean by that?'

It would have been rude not to have given
the best answer I could find. I said : ^ I
never saw the flesh of any person's face like
the flesh in the faces which that man paints.
He reminds me of wax-work. Why does he
paint the same waxy flesh in all four of his
pictures ? I don't see the same coloured flesh

VOL. I. 9

in all the faces about us.' Mrs. Staveley held
up her hand, by way of stopping me. She
said : * Don't speak so loud, Eunice ; you are
only exposing your own ignorance.'

A voice behind us joined in. The voice
said : ' Excuse me, Mrs. Staveley, if I expose
my ignorance. I entirely agree with the
young lady.'

I felt grateful to the person who took my
part, just when I was at a loss what to say for
myself, and I looked round. The person was
a young gentleman.

He wore a beautiful blue frock-coat, buttoned
up. I like a frock-coat to be buttoned up. He
had light coloured trousers and gray gloves
and a pretty cane. I like light-coloured
trousers and gray gloves and a pretty
cane. What colour his eyes were is more
than I can say ; I only know they made me
hot when they looked at me. Not that I
mind being made hot ; it is surely better than

being made cold. He and Mrs. Staveley
shook hands.

They seemed to be old friends. I wished I
had been an old friend — not for any bad reason,
I hope. I only wanted to shake hands, too.
What Mrs. Staveley said to him escaped me
somehow. I think the pictures escaped me
also ; I don't remember noticing anything except
the young gentleman, especially when he
took off his hat to me. He looked at me twice
before he went away. I got hot again. I said
to Mrs. Staveley : ' Who is he ?'

She laughed at me. I said again : ' Who is
he?' She said: ^ He is young Mr. Dunboyne.'
I said : ' Does he live in London ?' She
laughed again. I said again : ' Does he live
in London ?' She said : * He is here for a holiday
; he lives with his father at Fairmount, in
Ireland.'

Young Mr. Danboyne — here for a holiday —
lives with his father at Fairmount in Ireland.

9—2

I have said that to myself fifty times over.
And here it is, saying itself for the fifty-first
time in my journal. I must indeed be a
simpleton, as Helena says. I had better go to
"bed again.

EUNICE S DIARY.

Not long before I left home, I heard one of our
two servants telling the other about a person
who had been ' bewitched.' Are you bewitched
when you don't understand your own
self? That has been my curious case, since I
returned from the picture-show. This morning
I took my drawing materials out of my
box, and tried to make a portrait of young Mr.
Dunboyne from recollection. I succeeded
pretty well with his frock-coat and cane : but,
try as I might, his face was beyond me. I
have never drawn anything so badly since I
was a little girl ; I almost felt ready to cry.
What a fool I am !

This morning I received a letter from Papa
it was in reply to a letter that I had written
to him — so kind, so beautifully expressed, so
like himself, that I felt inclined to send him a
confession of the strange state of feeling that
has come over me, and to ask him to comfort
and advise me. On second thoughts, I was
afraid to do it. Afraid of Papa! I am
farther away from understanding myself than
ever.

Mr. Dunboyne paid us a visit in the afternoon.
Fortunately, before we went out.

I thought I would have a good look at him ;
so as to know his face better than I had known
it yet. Another disappointment was in store
for me. Without intending it, I am sure, he
did what no other young man has ever done —
lie made me feel confused. Instead of looking
at him, I sat with my head down, and listened
to his talk. His voice — this is high praise —
reminded me of Papa's voice. It seemed to

persuade me as Papa persuades his congregation.
I felt quite at ease again. When he
went away, we shook hands. He gave my
hand a little squeeze. I gave him back the
squeeze — without knowing why. When he
was gone, I wished I had not done it — without
knowing why, either.

I heard his Christian name for the first time,
to-day. Mrs. Staveley said to me : ' We are
going to have a dinner-party. Shall I ask
Philip Dunboyne?' I said to Mrs. Staveley :
'Oh, do!'

She is an old woman ; her eyes are dim. At
times, she can look mischievous. She looked
at me mischievously, now. I wished I had
not been so eager to have Mr. Dunboyne asked
to dinner. A fear has come to me that I may
have degraded myself. My spirits are depressed.
This, as Papa tells us in his sermons,
is a miserable world. I am sorry I accepted
the Staveleys' invitation. I am sorry I went

to see the pictures. When that young man
comes to dinner, I shall say I have gbt a headache,
and shall stop upstairs by myself. I
don't think I like his Christian name. I hate
London. I hate everybody

What I wrote up above, yesterday, is nonsense.
I think his Christian name is perfect.
I like London. I love everybody.

He came to dinner to-day. I sat next to
him. How beautiful a dress coat is, and a
white cravat! We talked. He wanted to
know what my Christian name was. I was so
pleased Ashen I found he was one of the few
people who like it. His hair curls naturally.
In colour, it is something between my hair and
Helena's. He wears his beard. How manly !
It curls naturally, like his hair ; it smells deliciously
of some perfume which is new to me.
He has white hands ; his nails look as if he
polished them; I should like to polish my

nails, if I knew how. Whatever I said, he
agreed with me; I felt satisfied with my own
conversation, for the first time in my life.
Helena won't find me a simpleton when I go
home. What exquisite things dinner-parties

are!

My sister told me (when we said good-bye)
to be particular in writing down my true
opinion of the Staveleys. Helena wishes to
compare what she thinks of them with what I
think of them.

My opinion of Mr. Staveley is — I don't like
him. My opinion of Miss Staveley is — I can't
endure her. As for Master Staveley, my clever
sister will understand that lie is beneath notice.
But, oh, what a wonderful woman Mrs.
Staveley is ! We went out together, after
luncheon to-day, for a walk in Kensington
Gardens. Never have I heard any conversation
to compare with Mrs. Staveley's. Helena

shall enjoy it here, at second hand. I am
quite changed in two things. First : I think
more of myself than I ever did before.
Second: writing is no longer a difficulty tome.
I could fill a hundred journals, without
once stopping to think.

Mrs. Staveley began nicely : ' I suppose,
Eunice, you have often been told that you
have a good figure, and that you walk
well ?

I said : ' Helena thinks my figure is better
than my face. But do I really walk well ?
Nobody ever told me that.'

She answered : ' Philip Dunboyne thinks
so. He said to me, " I resist the temptation
because I might be wanting in respect if I
gave way to it. But I should like to follow
her when she goes out — merely for the pleasure
of seeing her walk." '

I stood stock-still. I said nothing'. When
you are as proud as a peacock (which never

happened to me before), I find you can't move
and can't talk. You can only enjoy yourself.


Kind Mrs. Staveley had more things to tell
me. She said : ' I am interested in Philip. I
lived near Fairmount in the time before I was
married ; and in those days he was a child. I
want him to marry a charming girl, and be
happy.'

What made me think directly of Miss
Staveley ? What made me mad to know if
she was the charming girl ? I was bold
enough to ask the question. Mrs. Staveley
turned to me with that mischievous look
which I have noticed already. I felt as if I
had been running at the top of my speed, and
had not got my breath again, yet.

But this good motherly friend set me at my
ease. She explained herself : ' Philip is not
much liked, poor fellow, in our house. My
husband considers him to be weak and vain

and fickle. And joy daughter agrees with her
father. There are times when she is barely
civil to Philip. He is too good-natured to
complain, but / see it. Tell me, my dear, do
you like Philij) T

Of course I do !' Out it came in those
words, before I could stop it. Was there
something unbecoming to a young lady in
saying what I had just said ? Mrs. Staveley
seemed to be more amused than angry with
me. She took my arm kindly, and led me
along with her. ' My dear, you are as clear
as crystal, and as true as steel. You are a
favourite of mine already.'

What a delightful woman ! as I said just
now. I asked if she really liked me as well as
she liked my sister.

She said : ' Better.'

I didn't expect that, and didn't want it.
Helena is my superior. She is prettier than I
am, cleverer than I am, better worth liking

than I am. Mrs. Staveley shifted the talk
back to Philip. I ought to have said Mr.
Philip, '^o, I won't ; I shall call him Philip.
If I had a heart of stone, I should feel interested
in him, after what Mis. Staveley has
told me. *:>

Such a sad story, in some respects. Mother
dead ; no brothers or sisters. Only the father
left ; he lives a dismal life on a lonely
stormy coast. Not a severe old gentleman,
for all that. His reasons for taking to retirement
are reasons (so Mrs. Staveley says)
which nobody knows. He buries himself
among his books fin an immense library ; and
he appears to like it. His son has not been
brought up, like other young men, at school
and college. He is a irreat scholar, educated
at home by his father. To hear this account
of his learning depressed me. It seemed to
put such a distance between us. I asked Mrs.
Staveley if he thought me ignorant. As long

as I live I shall remember the rejDly : ' He
thinks you charming.'

Any other girl would have been satisfied
with this. I am the miserable creature who
is always making mistakes. My stupid
curiosity spoilt the charm of Mrs. Staveley's
conversation. And yet it seemed to be a
harmless question ; I only said I should like
to know what profession Philip belonged to.
Mrs. Staveley answered : ' Ko profession.'
I foolishly put a wrong meaning on this. I
said : ' Is he idle ?'

Mrs. Staveley laughed. * My dear, he is an
only son — and his father is a rich man.'
That stopped me — at last.
We have enough to live on in comfort at
home — no more. Papa has told us himself
that he is not (and can never hope to be) a
rich man. This is not the worst of it. Last
year, he refused to marry a young couple, both
belonging to our congregation. This was very

unlike his usual kind self. Helena and I
asked him for his reasons. They were reasons
that did not take long to give. The young
gentleman's father was a rich man. He had
forbidden his son to marry a sweet girl — because
she had no fortune.

I have no fortune. And Philip's father is a
rich man.

The best thing I can do is to wipe my pen,
and shut up my Journal, and go home by the
next train.

I have a great mind to burn my Journal.
It tells me that I had better not think of
Philip any more.

On second thoughts, I won't destroy my
Journal ; I will only put it away. If I live to
be an old woman, it may amuse me to open
my book again, and see how foolish the poor
wretch was when she was young.

What is this aching pain in my heart ?

I don't remembei'-'it at any other time in m j
life. Is it trouble ? How can I tell ? — I
have had so little trouble. It must be many
years since I was wretched enough to cry. I
don't even understand why I am crying now.
My last sorrow, so far as I can remember, was
the toothache. Other girls' mothers comfort
them when they are wretched. If my mother
had lived — it's useless to think about that.
We lost her, while I and luy sister were too
young to understand our misfortune.

I wish I had never seen Philip.

This seems an ungrateful Lavish. Seeing him
at the picture show was a new enjoyment.
Sitting next to him at dinner was a happiness
that I don't recollect feeling, even when Papa
has been most sweet and kind to me. I ought
to be ashamed of myself to consol this.
Shall I write to my sister ? But how should
she know what is the matter with me, when I
don't know it myself ? Besides, Helena is

angry ; she wrote unkindly to me when she
answered my last letter.

There is a dreadful loneliness in this great
house at night. I had better say my prayers,
and try to sleep. If it doesn't make me feel
happier, it will prevent me spoiling my Journal
by dropping tears on it.

0^ ^ ^ sip ^

What an evening; of evenings this has been !
Last night it was crying that kept me awake.
To-night I can't sleep for joy.

Philip called on us again to-day. He brought
with him tickets for the performance of an
Oratorio. Sacred music is not forbidden music
among our people. Mrs. Staveley and Miss
Staveley went to the concert with us. Philip
and I sat next to each other.

My sister is a musician — I am nothing.
That sounds bitter ; but I don't mean it so.
All I mean is, that I like simple little songs,
which I can sing to myself by remembering

VOL. I. 10

the tune. There, my musical enjoyment ends.
When voices and instruments burst out together
by hundreds, I feel bewildered. I also
get attacked by fidgets. This last misfortune
is sure to overtake me when choruses are
being performed. The unfortunate people
employed are made to keep singing the same
words, over and over and over again, till
I find it a perfect misery to listen to them.
The choruses were unendurable in the performance
to-night. This is one of them : ' Here
we are all alone in the wilderness — alone in
the wilderness — in the wilderness, alone, alone,
alone — here we are in the Wilderness — alone
in the wilderness — all all alone in the wilderness,'
and so on, till I felt inclined to call
for the learned person who writes Oratorios,
and beg him to give the poor music a more
generous allowance of words.

Whenever I looked at Philip, I found him
looking at me. Perhaps he saw from the first

that the music was wearying music to my
ignorant ears. With his usual delicacy he
said nothing for some time. But when he
caught me yawning (though I did my best to
hide it, for it looked like being ungrateful for
the tickets), then he could restrain himself no
longer. He whispered in my ear :

You are getting tired of this. And so
am I.'

I am trying to like it I whispered back.

Don't try he answered. ' Let's talk.'

He meant, of course, talk in whispers. We
were a good deal annoyed — especially when
the characters were all alone in the wilderness
by bursts of singing and playing which interrupted
us at the most interesting moments.
Philip persevered with a manly firmness.
What could I do but follow his example — at a
distance ?

He said : 'Is it really true that your visit
to Mrs. Staveley is coming to an end ?'

10—2

I answered : * It comes to an end the day
after tomorrow.' .

Are you sorry to be leaving your friends
in London?'

What I might have said if he had made
that inquiry a day earlier, when I was the
most miserable creature living, I would rather
not try to guess. Being quite happy as things
were, I could honestly tell him I was sorry.

You can't possibly be as sorry as I am,
Eunice. May I call you by your pretty
name ?'

Yes, if you please.'

Eunice !'

Yes.'

You Avill leave a blank in my life when
you go away '

There another chorus stopped him, just as I
was eager for more. It was such a delightfully
new sensation to hear a young gentleman
telling me that I had left a blank in his life.

The next change in the Oratorio brought up
a young lady, singing alone. Some people
behind us grumbled at the smallness of her
voice. We thought her voice perfect. It
seemed to lend itself so nicely to our whispers.

He said : ' Will you help me to think of
you while you are away ? I want to imagine
what your life is at home. Do you live in a
town or in the country ?'

I told him the name of our town. When
we give a person information, I have always
heard that we ought to make it complete. So
I mentioned our address in the town. But I
was troubled by a doubt. Perhaps he preferred
the country. Being anxious about this, I
said : ' Would you rather have heard that I
live in the country ?'

Live where you may, Eunice, the place
will be a favourite place of mine. Besides,
your town is famous. It has a public attraction
which brings visitors to it.*

I made another of those mistakes which no
sensible girl, in my position, would have committed.
I asked if he alluded to our new
market-place.

He set me right in the sweetest manner : ' I
alluded to a building hundreds of years older
than your market - place — your beautiful
cathedral.'

Fancy my not having thought of the
cathedral! This is what comes of being a
Congregationalist. If I had belonged to the
Church of England, I should have forgotten
the market-place, and remembered the cathedral.
Not that I want to belong to the Church of
England. Papa's chapel is good enough for me.

The song sung by the lady with the small
voice was so pretty that the audience encored
it. Didn't Philip and I help them! With
the sweetest smiles the lady sang it all over
again. The people behind us left the concert.

He said : ' Do you know, I take the

greatest interest in cathedrals. I propose to
enjoy the privilege and pleasure of seeing your
cathedral early next week.'

I had only to look at him to see that 1 was
the cathedral. It was no surprise to hear
next that he thought of ' paying his respects
to Mr. Gracedieu.' He begged me to tell him
what sort of reception he might hope to meet
with when he called at our house. I got so
excited in doing justice to Papa, that I quite
forgot to whisper when the next question
came. Philip wanted to know if Mr. Grace-dieu
disliked strangers. When I answered,
<- Oh dear, no !' I said it out loud, so that the
people heard me. Cruel, cruel people ! They
all turned round and stared. One hideous old
woman actually said, * Silence !' Miss Staveley
looked disgusted. Even kind Mrs. Staveley
lifted her eyebrows in astonishment.

Philip, dear Philip, protected and composed
me.

He held my hand devotedly till the end of
the performance. When he put us into the
carriage, I was last. He whispered in my ear :
Expect me next week.' Miss Staveley might
be as ill-natured as she pleased, on the way
home. It didn't matter what she said. The
Eunice of yesterday might have been mortified
and offended. The Eunice of to-day was
indifferent to the sharpest things that could be
said to her.

*'4^ •^ ^ ^e.

*f^ ^5» ij^ ijf

All through yesterday's delightful evening,
I never once thought of Philip s father. When
I woke this morning, I remembered that old
Mr. Dunboyne was a rich man. I could eat
no breakfast for thinking of the poor girl who
was not allowed to marry her young gentleman,
because she had no money.

Mrs. Staveley waited to speak to me till the
rest of them had left us together. I had expected
her to notice that I looked dull and

dismal. ;Neo ! her cleverness got at my secretin
quite another way.

She said : ' How do you feel after the concert
? You must be hard to please indeed
if you were not satisfied with the accompaniments
last night.'

The accompaniments of the Oratorio ?*

No, my dear. The accompaniments of
Philip.'

I suppose I ought to have laughed. In my
miserable state of mind, it was not to be donec
I said : ' I hope Mr. Dunboyne's father will
not hear how kind he was to me.'
Mrs. Staveley asked why.

My bitterness overflowed at my tongue. I
said : ' Because Papa is a poor man.'

And Philip's Papa is a rich man,' says
Mrs. Staveley, putting my own thought into
words for me. ' Where do you get these
ideas, Eunice ? Surely, you are not allowed
to read novels ?'

Oh no !'

And you have certainly never seen a
play ?

Never.'

Clear your head, child, of the nonsense
that has got into it — I can't think how.
Each Mr. Dunboyne has taught his heir to
despise the base act of marrying for money.
He knows that Philip will meet young ladies
at my house ; and he has written to me on
the subject of his son's choice of a wife.
Let Philip find good principles, good
temper, and good looks ; and I promise
beforehand to find the money." There is
what he says. Are you satisfied with Philip's
father, now ?'

I jumped up in a state of ecstasy. Just as
I had thrown my arms round Mrs. Staveley's
neck, the servant came in with a letter, and
handed it to me.

Helena had written again, on this last day

of my visit. Her letter was full of instructions
for buying things that she wants, before
I leave London. I read on quietly enough
until I came to the postscript. The effect
of it on me may be told in two words : I
screamed. Mrs. Staveley was naturally
alarmed. ' Bad news ?' she asked. Being
quite unable to offer an opinion, I read the
postscript out loud J and left her to judge for
herself

This was Helena's news from home :
I must prepare you for a surprise, before
your return. You will find a strange lady
established at home. Don't suppose there is
any prospect of her bidding us good-bye, if
we only wait long enough. She is already
(with father's full approval) as much a
member of the family as we are. You shall
form your own unbiased opinion of her,
Eunice. For the present, I say no more.'
I asked Mrs. Staveley what she thought

of my news from home. She said : ^ Your
father approves of the lady, my dear. I suppose
it's good news.'

But Mrs. Staveley did not look as if she
believed in the good news, for all that.

Helena's diary.

To-day, I went as usual to the Scripture-class
for girls. It was harder work than
ever, teaching without Eunice to help me.
Indeed, I felt lonely all day without my
sister. When I got home, I rather hoped
that some friend might have come to see us,
and have been asked to stay to tea. The
housemaid opened the door to me. I asked
Maria if anybody had called.

Yes, Miss ; a lady, to see the master.'

A stranger T

Never saw her before, Miss, in all my
life.'

I put no more questions. Many ladies
visit my father. They call it consulting
the Minister. He advises them in their
troubles, and guides them in their religious
difficulties, and so on. They come and go
in a sort of secrecy. So far as I know, they
are mostly old maids, and they waste the
Minister's time.

When my father came in to tea, I began
to feel some curiosity about the lady who
had called on him. Visitors of that sort,
in general, never appear to dwell on his
mind after they have gone away ; he sees
too many of them, and is too well accustomed
to Avhat they have to say. On this
particular evening, however, I perceived appearances
that set me thinking ; he looked
worried and anxious.

Has anything happened, father, to vex
you ?' I said.

Yes.'

Is the lady concerned in it ?'
What lady, my dear ?'

The lady who called on you while I was
oat

Who told you she had called on me ?'

I asked Maria '

That will do, Helena, for the present.'
He drank his tea and went back to his
study, instead of staying awhile, and talking
pleasantly as usual. My respect submitted
to his want of confidence in me ; but my
curiosity was in a state of revolt. I sent for
Maria, and proceeded to make my own discoveries,
with this result :

No other person had called at the house.
Nothing had happened, except the visit of the
mysterious lady. ' She looked between young
and old. And, oh dear me, she was certainly
not pretty. Not dressed nicely, to my
mind ; but they do say dress is a matter
of taste.'

Try as I might, I could get no more than
that out of our stupid young housemaid.

Later in the evening, the cook had occasion
to consult me about supper. This was a
person possessing the advantages of age and
experience. I asked if she had seen the lady.
The cook's reply promised something new :
I can't say I saw the lady \ but I heard
her.'

Do you mean that you heard her speaking
?'

'No, Miss — crying.'

Where was she crying ?'

In the master's study.'

How did you come to hear her ?'

Am I to understand, Miss, that you
suspect me of listening ?'

Is a lie told by a look as bad as a lie told
by words ? I looked shocked at the bare idea
of suspecting a respectable person of listening.
The cook's sense of honour was satisfied ; she

readily explained herself : ' I was passing the
door, Miss, on my way upstairs.'

Here my discoveries came to an end. It
was certainly possible that an afflicted member
of my father's congregation might have calledon
him to be comforted. But he sees plenty
of afflicted ladies, without looking worried and
anxious after they leave him. Still suspecting
something out of the ordinary course of
events, I waited hopefully for our next meeting
at supper-time. Nothing came of it. My
father left me by myself again, when the
meal was over. He is always courteous to his
daughters ; and he made an apology : ' Excuse
me, Helena, I want to think.'

I went to bed in a vile humour, and slept
badly ; wondering, in the long wakeful hours,
what new rebuff I should meet with on the
next day.

At breakfast this morning I was agreeably
VOL. I. 11

surprised. No signs of anxiety showed
themselves in my father's face. Instead of
retiring to his study when we rose from the
table, he proposed taking a turn in the
garden : ' You are looking pale, Helena,
and you will be the better for a little fresh
air. Besides, I have something to say to
you.'

Excitement, I am sure, is good for young
women. I saw in his face, I heard in his last
words, that the mystery of the lady was at
last to be revealed. The sensation of languor
and fatici^ue which follows a disturbed nio;ht
left me directly.

My father gave me his arm, and we walked
slowly up and down the lawn.

When that lady called on me yesterday,'
he began, ' you wanted to know who she was,
and you were surprised and disappointed when
I refused to gratify your curiosity. My
silence was not a selfish silence, Helena. I

was thinking of you and your sister ; and
I was at a loss how to act for the best. You
shall hear why my children were in my mind,
presently. I must tell you first that I have
arrived at a decision : I hope and believe on
reasonable grounds. Ask me any questions
you please ; my silence will be no longer an
obstacle in your way.'

This was so very encouraging that I said
at once : ' I should like to know who the lady
is.'

The lady is related to me he answered.
We are cousins.'

Here was a disclosure that I had not anticipated.
In the little that I have seen of the
world, I have observed that cousins — when
they happen to be brought together under
interesting circumstances — can remember their
relationship, and forget their relationship, just
as it suits them. ' Is your cousin a married
lady T I ventured to inquire.

11—2

Short as it was, that reply might perhaps
mean more than appeared on the surface. The
cook had heard the lady crying. What sort of
tender agitation was answerable for those
tears ? Was it possible, barely possible, that
Eunice and I might go to bed, one night, a
widower's daughters, and wake up the next
day to discover a stepmother ?

Have I or my sister ever seen the lady ?' I
asked.

Never. She has been living abroad ; and
I have not seen her myself since we were both
young people.'

My excellent innocent father! Not the
faintest idea of what I had been thinking: of
was in his mind. Little did he suspect how
welcome was the relief that he had afforded to
his daughter's wicked doubts of him. But he
had not said a word yet about his cousin's
personal appearance. There might be remains

of good looks which the housemaid was too
stupid to discover.

After the long interval that has passed
since you met,' I said, ^I suppose she has
become an old woman T

*!N"o, my dear. Let us say, a middle-aged
woman.'

Perhaps she is still an attractive person
?'

He smiled. * I am afraid, Helena, that
would never have been a very accurate description
of her.'

I now knew all that I wanted to know
about this alarming person, excepting one last
morsel of information which my father had
strangely forgotten.

We have been talking about the lady for
some time,' I said ; ' and you have not yet
told me her name.'

Father looked a little embarrassed. ' It's
not a very pretty name,' he answered. ' My

cousin, my unfortunate cousin, is — Miss
Jillgall'

I burst out with such a loud ' Oh !' that he
laughed. I caught the infection, and laughed
louder still. Bless Miss Jillgall ! The interview
promised to become an easy one for both
of us, thanks to her name. I was in good
spirits, and I made no attempt to restrain
them. ' The next time Miss Jillgall honours
you with a visit,' I said, ' you must give mean
opportunity of being presented to her.'

He made a strange reply : * You may find
your opportunity, Helena, sooner than you
anticipate.'

Did this mean that she was going to call
again in a day or two ? I am afraid I spoke
flippantly. I said : ' Oh, father, another lady
fascinated by the popular preacher ?'

The garden chairs where near us. He signed
to me gravely to be seated by his side, and
said to himself: ' This is my fault.'

What is your fault ?' I asked.

I have left you in ignorance, my dear, of
my cousin's sad story. It is soon told ; and,
if it checks your merriment, it will make
amends by deserving your sympathy. I was
indebted to her whither, when I was a boy, for
acts of kindness which I can never forget.
He was twice married. The death of his first
wife left him with one child — once my playfellow
; now the lady whose visit has excited
your curiosity. His second wife was a Belgian.
She persuaded him to sell his business in
London, and to invest the money in a partnership
with a brother of hers, established asa
sugar-refiner at Antwerp. The little daughter
accompanied her father to Belgium. Are you
attending to me, Helena ?'

I was Awaiting for the interesting part of
the story, and was wondering when he would
get to it.

As time went on,' he resumed, ' the new

partner found that the value of the business
at Antwerp had been greatly overrated. After
a long struggle with adverse circumstances,
he decided on Withdrawing from the partnership
before the whole of his capital was lost
in a failing commercial speculation. The end
of it was that he retired, with his daughter,
to a small town in East Flanders ; the wreck
of his property having left him with an income
of no more than two hundred pounds a year.'

I showed my father that I was attending
to him now, by inquiring what had become
of the Belgian wife. Those nervous quivering,
which Eunice has mentioned in her
diary, began to appear in his face.

It is too shameful a story,' he said, ' to
be told to a young girl. The marriage was
dissolved by law ; and the wife was the
person to blame. I am sure, Helena, you
don't wish to hear any more of tins part of
the story.'

I did wish. But 1 saw that he expected
me to say No — so I said it.

The father and daughter,' he went on,
'never so much as thought of returning to
their own country. They where too poor to
live comfortably in England. In Belgium
their income was sufficient for their wants.
On the father's death, the daughter remained
in the town. She had friends there, and
friends nowhere else ; and she might have
lived abroad to the end of her days, but fora
calamity to which Ave are all liable. A
long and Serious illness completely prostrated
her. Skilled medical attendance, costing
large sums of money for the doctors' travelling
expenses, was imperatively required.
Experienced nurses, summoned from a distant
hospital, W'Cre in attendance night and
day. Luxuries, far beyond the reach of her
little income, were absolutely required to
support her wasted strength at the time of

her tedious recovery. In one word, her resources
were sadly diminished, when the
poor creature had paid her debts, and had
regained her hold on life. At that time, she
unhappily met with the man who has ruined
her.'

It was getting interesting at last. ' Ruined
her ?' I repeated. ' Do you mean that he
robbed her ?'

That, Helena, is exactly what I mean —
and many and many a helpless woman has
been robbed in the same way. The man of
whom I am now speaking was a lawyer inlarge
practice. He bore an excellent character,
and was highly respected for his exemplary
life. My cousin (not at all a discreet person,
I am bound to admit) was induced to consult
him on her pecuniary affairs. He expressed
the most generous sympathy — offered to employ
her little capital in his business — and
pledged himself to pay her double the interest

for her money, which she had been in the
habit of receiving from the sound investment
chosen by her father

And of course he got the money, and
never paid the interest ?' Eager to hear the
end, I interrupted the story in those inconsiderate
words. My father's answer quietly
reproved me.

He paid the interest regularly as long ashe
lived.'

^ And what happened when he died ?'

He died a bankrupt ; the secret profligacy
of his life was at last exposed. Nothing,
actually nothing, was left for his creditors.
The unfortunate creature, whose ugly name
has amused you, must get help somewhere, or
must go to the workhouse.'

If I had been in a state of mind to attend
to trifles, this would have explained the reason
why the cook had heard Miss Jillgall crying.
But the prospect before me — the unendurable

prospect of having a strange woman in the
house — had showed itself too plainly to be
mistaken. I could think of nothing else.
With infinite difficulty I assumed a momentary
appearance of composure, and suggested
that Miss Jillgall's foreign friends might have
done something to help her.

My father defended her foreign friends.
^ My dear, they were poor people, and did all
they could afford to do. But for their kindness,
my cousin might not have been able to
return to England.'

And to cast herself on your mercy,' I
added, ' in the character of a helpless
woman.'

No, Helena ! Not to cast herself on my
mercy — but to find my house open to her, asher
father's house was open to me in the bygone
time. I am her only surviving relative ;
and, while I live, she shall not be a helpless
woman.'

I began to wish that I had not spoken out
so plainly. My father's sweet temper — I do
so sincerely wish I had inherited it ! — made
the kindest allowances for me.

I understand the momentary bitterness of
feeling that has escaped you he said ; ' I may
almost say that I expected it. My only hesitation
in this matter has been caused by my
sense of what I owe to my children. It was
putting your endurance, and your sister's endurance,
to a trial to expect you to receive a
stranger (and that stranger not a "young girl
like yourselves) as one of the household, living
with you in the closest intimacy of family life.
The consideration which has decided me does
justice, I hope, to you and Eunice, as well as
to myself. I think that some allowance is
due from my daughters to the father who has
always made loving allowance for them. Am
I wrong in believing that my good children
have not forgotten this, and have only waited

for the occasion to feel the pleasure of rewarding

me ?'

It was beautifully put. There was but one
things to be done — I kissed him. And there
was but one thing to be said. I asked at what
time we might expect to receive Miss Jillgall.

She is staying, Helena, at a small hotel in
the town. I have already sent to say that weare
waiting to see her. Perhaps you will look
at the spare bedroom ?'

It shall be got ready, father, directly.'

I ran into the house; I rushed upstairs into
the room that is Eunice's and mine ; I locked
the door, and then I gave way to my rage,
before it stifled me. I stamped on the floor,
I clenched my fists, I cast myself on the bed,
I reviled that hateful woman by every hard
word that I could throw at her. Oh, the
luxury of it ! the luxury of it !

Cold water and my hairbrush soon made me
fit to be seen afi:ain.

As for the spare room, it looked a great
deal too comfortable for an incubus from
foreign parts. The one improvement that I
could have made, if a friend of mine had been
expected, was suggested by the window curtains.
I was looking at a torn place in one of
them, and determining to leave it unrepaired,
when I felt an arm slipped round my waist
from behind. A voice, so close that it tickled
my neck, said : ' Dear girl, what friends we
shall be !' I turned round, and confronted
Miss Jilkall.

Helena's diary.

If I am not a good girl, where is a good girl
to be found ? This is in Eunice's style. It
sometimes amuses me to mimic my simple
sister.

I have just torn three pages out of my diary,
in deference to the expression of my father's
wishes. He took the first opportunity which
his cousin permitted him to enjoy of speaking
to me privately ; and his object was to caution
me against hastily relying on first impressions
of anybody — especially of Miss Jillgall. 'AVait
for a day or two,' he said ; ^ and then form
your estimate of the new member of our household.'


The stormy state of my temper had passed
away, and had left my atmosphere calm again
I could feel that I had received good advice ;
but unluckily it reached me too late.

I had formed my estimate of Miss Jillgall,
and had put it in writing for my own satisfaction,
at least an hour before my father found
himself at liberty to speak to me. I don't
agree with him in distrusting first impressions;
and I had proposed to put my opinion to the
test, by referring to what I had written about
his cousin at a later time. However, after
what he had said to me, I felt bound in filial
duty to take the pages out of my book, and tolet
two days pass before I presumed to enjoy
the luxury of hating Miss Jillgall.

On one thing I am determined : Eunice
shall not form a hasty opinion, either. She
shall undergo the same severe discipline
of self-restraint to which her sister is obliged
to submit. Let us be just, as somebody

VOL. I. 12

says, before we are generous. No more for
to-day.

# # # * *

I open my diary again — after the prescribed
interval has elapsed. The first impression
produced on me by the new member of our
household remains entirely unchanged.

Have I already made the remark that, when
one removes a page from a book, it does not
necessarily follow that one destroys the page
afterwards? or did I leave this to be inferred?
In either case, my course of proceeding was the
same. I ordered some paste to be made. Then
I unlocked a drawer, and found my poor ill-used
leaves, and put them back in my Journal.
An act of justice is surely not the less praiseworthy
because it is an act of justice done to
one's self.

My father has often told me that he revises
his writings on religious subjects. I may
harmlessly imitate that good example, by

revising my restored entry. It is now a sufficiently
remarkable performance to be distinguished
by a title. Let me call it :

Impressions of Miss JillgalL

My first impression was a strong one — it was
produced by the state of this lady's breath. In
other words, I was obliged to let her kiss me.
It is a duty to be considerate towards human
infirmity. I Avill only say that I thought I
should have fainted.

My second impression draws a portrait, and
produces a striking likeness.

Figure, little and lean — hair of the dirty
drab colour which we see in string; — small
light gray eyes, sly and restless, and deeply
sunk in the head — prominent cheek-bones, and
a florid complexion — an inquisitive nose, turning
up at the end — a large mouth and a
servile smile — raw-looking hands, decorated
with black mittens — a visiting white jacket

]2 2

and a limp skirt — manners familiar — temper
cleverly hidden — voice too irritating to be
mentioned. Whose portrait is this ? It is
the photograph of Miss Jillgall, taken in
words.

Her true character is not easy to discover ;
I suspect that it will only show itself little hy
little. That she is a born meddler in other
people's affairs, I think I can see already. I
also found out that she trusted to flattery as
the easiest means of making herself agreeable.
She tried her first experiment on myself.

You charming girl,' she began, ' your
bright face encourages me to ask a favour.
Pray make me useful ! The one aspiration of
my life is to be useful. Unless you employ
me in that way, I have no right to intrude
myself into your family circle. Yes, yes, I
know that your father has opened his house
and his heart to me. But I dare not found
any claim — your name is Helena, isn't it?

Dear Helena, I dare not found any claim on
what I owe to your father's kindness.'

Why not?' I inquired.

Because your father is not a man '

I was rude enough to interrupt her : ' What
is he then ?'

An angel Miss Jillgall answered solemnly.
A destitute earthly creature like me must not
look up as high as your father. I might bedazzled.'


This was rather more than I could endure
patiently 'Let us try,' I suggested, ' if we
can't understand each other, at starting.'

Miss Jillo'all's little eves twinkled in their
bony caverns. ' The very thing I was going
to propose!' she burst out.

Yery well,' I went on ; ' then, let me tell
you plainly that flattery is not relished in this
house.'

'Flattery?' She put her hand to her head
as she repeated the Avoid, and looked quite bewildered.

* Dear Helena, I have lived all my
life in East Flanders, and my own language is
occasionally strange to me. Can you tell me
what flattery is in Flemish?'

I don't understand Flemish.'

How very provoking! You don't understand
Flemish, and I don't understand Flattery.
I should so like to know what it means. Ah,
I see books in. this lovely room. Is there a
dictionary among them?' She darted to the
bookcase, and discovered a dictionary. ' Xow
I shall understand Flattery,' she remarked —
sand then we shall understand each other. Oh,
let me find it for myself!' She ran her raw red
finger along the alphabetical headings at the
top of each page, 'fad." That won't do.
'erie." Farther on still. 'the." Too far
the other way. " fla." Here we are !
'' Flattery: False praise. Commendation bestowed
for the purpose of gaining favour and
influence." Oh, Helena, how cruel of you !'

Lie dropped the book, and sank into a chair —
the picture, if such a thing' can be, of a brokenhearted
old maid.

I should most assuredly have taken the
opportunity of leaving her to her own devices, if
I had been free to act as I pleased. But my
interests as a daughter forbade me to make an
enemy of my father's cousin, on the first day
when she had entered the house. I made an
apology, very neatly expressed.

She jumped up — let me do her justice; Miss
Jillgall is as nimble as a monkey — and
(Faugh!) she kissed me for the second time.
If I had been a man, I am afraid I should have
called for that deadly poison (we are all
temperance people in this house) known by the
name of Brandy.

'If you will make me love you,' Miss Jillgall
explained, 'you must expect to be kissed. Dear
girl, let us go back to my poor little petition.
Oh, do make me useful ! There are so many

things I can do : you will find me a treasure in
the house. I write a good hand ; I understand
polishing furniture; I can dress hair (look at
my own hair) ; 1 play and sing a little when
people want to be amused ; I can mix a salad
and knit stockings — who is this?' The cook
came in, at the moment, to consult me; I
introduced her. ' And, oh,' cried Miss Jillgall
in ecstasy, ' I can cook ! Do please let me seethe
kitchen.'

The cook's face turned red. She had come
to me to make a confession ; and she had not
(as she afterwards said) bargained for the
presence of a stranger. For the first time in
her life she took the liberty of whispering tome
: ' I must ask you. Miss, to let me send up
the cauliflower plahi boiled ; I don't understand
the directions in the book for doing' it in the
foreign way.'

Miss Jillgall's ears — perhaps because they
are so large — possess a quickness of hearing,

quite unparalleled in my experience. Xot one
word of the cook's whispered confession had
escaped her.

Here,' she declared, ' is an opportunity of
making myself useful ! What is the cook's
name ? Hannah ? Take me downstairs,
Hannah, and I'll show you how to do the
cauliflower in the foreign way. She seems
to hesitate. Is it possible that she doesn't
believe me ? Listen, Hannah, and judge for
yourself if I am deceiving you. Have you
boiled the cauliflower ? Yery well ; this is
what you must do next. Take four ounces
of grated cheese, two ounces of best butter,
the yolks of four eggs, a little bit of glaze,
lemon-JLiice, nutmeg — dear, dear, how black
she looks ! What have I said to offend
her ?'

The cook passed over the lady who had
presumed to instruct her, as if no such person
had been present, and addressed herself

to me : ' If I am to be interfered with in my
own kitchen, Miss, I will ask you to suit
yourself at a month's notice.'

Miss Jillgall wrung her hands in despair.

I meant so kindly,' she said ; ' and I seem
to have made mischief. With the best intentions,
Helena, I have set you and your
servant at variance. I really didn't know
you had such a temper, Hannah,' she declared,
following the cook to the door. ' I'm sure
there's nothing I am not ready to do to make
it up with you. Perhaps, you have not got
the cheese downstairs ? I'm ready to go out
and buy it for you. I could show you how
to keep eggs sweet and fresh for weeks together.
Your gown doesn't fit very well ;
I shall be glad to improve it, if you will leave
it out for me after you have gone to bed.
There !' cried Miss Jillgall, as the cook
majestically left the room, without even looking
at her, ' I have done my best to make it

up, and you see how my advances are received.
What more could I have done ? I really ask
you, dear, as a friend, what more could I
have done ?'

I had it on the tip of my tongue to say :
The cook doesn't ask you to buy cheese for
her, or to teach her how to keep eggs, or to
improve the fit of her gown ; all she wants
is to have her kitchen to herself.' But here
again it was necessary to remember that this
odious person was my father's guest.

^ Pray don't distress yourself,' I began ; ' I
am sure you are not to blame, Miss Jill-gall
'

Oh, don't !'

Don't— what ?

Don't call me Miss Jillgall. I call you
Helena. Call me Selina.'

I had really not supposed it possible that
she could be more unendurable than ever.
When she mentioned her Christian name, she

succeeded nevertheless in producing that result.
In the whole list of women's names, is
there any one to be found so absolutely sickening
as ' Selina'? I forced myself to pronounce
it ; I made another neatly-expressed apology ;
I said English servants were so very peculiar.
Selina was more than satisfied ; she was quite
delighted.

^ Is that it, indeed ? An explanation was
all I wanted. How good of you ! And now
tell me — is there no chance, in the house or
out of the house, of ni'' making myself useful?
Oh, what's that ? Do I see a chance ? I do !
I do!'

Miss Jillgall's eyes are more than mortal.
At one time, they are microscopes. At another
time, they are telescopes. She discovered
(right across the room) the torn place in the
window curtain. In an instant, she snatched
a dirty little leather case out of her pocket,
threaded her needle, and began darning the

curtain. She sang over her work. ' My

heart is light, my will is free ' I can

repeat no more of it. When I heard her
singing voice, I became reckless of consequences,
and ran out of the room with my
hands over my ears.

Helena DIARY

When I reached the foot of the stairs, my
father called me into his stuily.

I found him at his writing-table, with such
a heap of torn-up paper in his waste-basket
that it overflowed on to the floor. He explained
to me that he had been destroying a
large accumulation of old letters, and lead
ended (when his employment began to grow
wearisome) in examining his correspondence
rather carelessly. The result was that he had
torn up a letter, and a copy of the rejoly,
which ought to have been set aside as worthy
of preservation. After collecting the fragments,

he had heaped them on the table. If
I could contrive to put them together again
on fair sheets of paper, and fasten them in
their right places with gum, I should be doing

him a service, at a time when he was too busy



to set his mistake right for himself.

Here was the best excuse that I could desire
for keeping out of Miss Jillgall's way. I
cheerfully set to work on the restoration of
the letters, while my father went on with his
writing.

Having put the fragments together — excepting
a few gaps caused by morsels that
had been lost — I was unwilling to fasten
them down with gum, until I could feel sure
of not having made any mistakes ; especially
in regard to some of the lost words which I
had been obliged to restore bv ii'uess-work,

O Iso

So I copied the letters, and submitted them,
in the first place, to my father's approval.
He praised me in the prettiest manner for

the care that I had taken. But, when he
began, after some hesitation, to read my
copy, I noticed a change. The smile left his
face, and the nervous quivering showed themselves
again.

Quite right, my child,' he said, in low sad
tones.

On returning to my side of the table, I
expected to see him resume his writing. He
crossed the room to the window, and stood
(with his back to me) looking out.

AVhen I had first discovered the sense of the
letters, they failed to interest me. A tiresome
woman, presuming on the kindness of a good-natured
man to beg a favour which she had no
right to ask, and receiving a refusal which she
had richly deserved, was no remarkable event
in my experience as my father's secretary and
copyist. But the change in his face, while he
read the correspondence, altered my opinion of
the letters. There was more in them evidently

than I had discovered. I kept my manuscript
copy — here it is :

From Miss Elizabeth Chance to the Rev. Abel

Gracedieu.

(Date of year, 1859. Date of month, missing.)

Dear Sir,

You have, I hope, not quite forgotten
the interesting conversation that we had last
year in the Governor's rooms. I am afraid I
spoke a little flippantly at the time ; but I am
sure you will believe me when I say that this
was out of no want of respect to yourself. My
pecuniary position being far from prosperous,
I am endeavouring to obtain the vacant situation
of housekeeper in a public institution, the
prospectus of which I enclose. You will see
it is a rule of the place that a candidate must
be a single woman (which I am), and must be
recommended by a clergyman. You are the
only reverend gentleman whom it is my good
fortune to know, and the thing is of course a

VOL. I. 13

mere formality. Pray excuse this application,
and oblige me by acting as my reference.
Sincerely yours,

Elizabeth Chance.

Pes. — Please address: Miss E. Chance,
Poste Restante, St. Martin's-le-Grand, London.'


'from the Rev. Ah el Gracedieu to Miss Chance,

(Copy.)
Madam,

The brief conversation to which your
letter alludes, took place at an accidental meeting
between us. I then saw you for the first
time, and I have not seen you since. It is
impossible for me to assert the claim of a perfect
stranger, like yourself, to fill a situation of
trust. I must beg to decline acting as your

reference.

Your obedient servant,

'Abel Gracedieu.'
« # # ^ ^

My father was still at the window.

In that idle position he could hardly complain
of me for interrupting him, if I ventured
to talk about the letters which I had put together.
If my curiosity displeased him, he
had only to say so, and there would be an end
to any allusions of mine to the subject. My
first idea was to join him at the window. On
reflection, and still perceiving that he kept his
back turned on me, I thought it might be
more prudent to remain at the table.

This Miss Chance seems to be an impudent
person ?' I said.

Yes.'

Was she a young woman, when you met
with her ?'

Yes.'

What sort of a woman to look at ? Ugly ?'

'No.'

Here were three answers which Eunice herself
would have been quick enough to interpret

as three warnings to say no more. I felt a
little hurt by his keeping his back turned on
me. At the same time, and naturally, I think,
I found my interest in Miss Chance (I don't
say my friendly interest) considerably increased
by my father's unusually rude behaviour. I
was also animated by an irresistible desire to
make him turn round and look at me.

Miss Chance's letter was written many
years ago,' I resumed. ' I wonder what has
become of her since she wrote to you. '

I know nothing about her

Not even whether she is alive or dead ?'

Not even that. What do these questions
mean, Helena ?'

Nothing, father.'

I declare he looked as if he suspected me !

Why don't you speak out ?' he said.
Have I ever taught you to conceal your
thoughts ? Have I ever been a hard father,
who discouraged you when you wished to

confide in him ? What are you thinking
about ? Do you know anything of this
woman ?'

Oh, father, what a question ! I never even
heard of her till I put the torn letters together.
I begin to wish you had not asked
me to do it.'

So do I. It never struck me that you
would feel such extraordinary — I had almost
said, such vulgar — curiosity about a worthless
letter.'

This roused my temper. When a young-lady
is told that she is vulgar, if she has any
self-conceit — I mean self-respect — she feels
insulted. I said something sharp in my turn.
It was in the way of argument. I do not
know how it may be with other young persons,
I never reason so well myself as when I am
angry.

You call it a worthless letter,' I said, ' and
yet you think it worth preserving.'

Have you nothing more to say to me than
that ?' he asked.

Nothing more,' I answered.

He changed again. After having looked
unaccountably angry, he now looked unaccountably
relieved.

I will soon satisfy you,' he said, ' that I
have a good reason for preserving a worthless
letter. Miss Chance, my dear, is not a woman
to be trusted. If she saw her advantage in
making a bad use of my reply, I am afraid she
would not hesitate to do it. Even if she is
no longer living, I don't know into what vile
hands my letter may not have fallen, or how it
might be falsified for some wicked purpose.
Do you see now how a correspondence may
become accidentally important, though it is of
no value in itself T

I could say ' Yes ' to this with a safe conscience.


But there were some perplexities still left in

my mind. It seemed strange that Miss Chance
should (apparently) have submitted to the
severity of my father's reply. ' I should have
thought,' I said to him, ' that she would have
sent you another impudent letter — or perhaps
have insisted on seeing you, and using her
tongue instead of her pen.'

She could do neither the one nor the other,
Helena. Miss Chance will never find out my
address again ; I have taken good care of that'

He spoke in a loud voice, with a flushed
face — as if it was quite a triumph to have prevented
this woman from discovering his address.
What reason could he have for being so anxious
to keep her away from him ? Could I venture
to conclude that there was a mystery in the
life of a man so blameless, so truly pious ? It
shocked one even to think of it.

There was a silence between us, to which
the housemaid offered a welcome interruption.
Dinner was ready.

He kissed me before we left the room. ' One
word more, Helena,' he said, * and I have
done. Let there be no more talk between us
about Elizabeth Chance.'

HELENA S DIARY.

Miss Jill all joined us at the dinner-table, in a
state of excitement, carrying a book in her hand.

I am inclined, on reflection, to suspect that
she is quite clever enough to have discovered
that I hate her — and that many of the aggravating
things she says and does are assumed,
out of retaliation, for the purpose of making
me angry. That ugly face is a double face,
or I am much mistaken.

To return to the dinner-table, Miss Jillgall
addressed herself, with an air of playful penitence,
to my father.

Dear cousin, I hope I have not done wrong.
Helena left me all by myself. When I had

finished darning the curtain, I really didn't
know what to do. So I opened all the bedroom
doors upstairs and looked into the
rooms. In the big room with two beds
oh, I am so ashamed — I found this book.
Please look at the first page.'

My father looked at the title-page : — ' Doctor
Watts's Hymns. Well, Selina, what is thereto
be ashamed of in this ?*

Oh, no ! no ! It's the wrong page. Do
look at the other page — the one that comes
first before that one.'

My patient father turned to the blank page.

Ah,' he said quietly, ' my other daughter's
name is written in it — the daughter whom you
have not yet seen. Well ?'

Miss Jillgall clasped her hands distractedly.
It's my ignorance I'm so ashamed of. Dear
cousin, forgive me, enlighten me. I don't know
how to pronounce your other daughter's name.
Do you call her Euneece *?'

The dinner was getting cold. I was provoked
into saying : ' Neo, we don't.'

She had evidently not forgiven me for
leaving her by herself ' Pardon me, Helena,
when I want information I don't apply to you;
I sit, as it were, at the feet of your learned
father. Dear cousin, is it '

Even my father declined to wait for his
dinner any longer. ' Pronounce it as you
like, Selina. Here we say Eunice — with the
accent on the ' i ' and with the final ' e ' sounded :
Eu-ni-see. Let me give you some soup.'

Miss Jillgall groaned. ' Oh, how difficult
it seems to be ! Quite be^^'ond my poor brains !
I shall ask the dear girl's leave to call her
Euneece. What very strong soup! Isn't it
rather a waste of meat ? Give me a little
more, please.'

I discovered another of Miss Jillgall's peculiarities.
Her appetite was enormous, and her
ways were greedy. You heard her eat her

soup. She devoured the food on her plate
with her eyes before she put it into her mouth ;
and she criticised our English cookery in the
most impudent manner, under pretence of asking
humbly how it was done. There was,
however, some temporary compensation for
this. We had less of her talk while she was
eating her dinner.

With the removal of the cloth, she recovered
the use of her tongue ; and she hit on the one
subject of all others which proves to be the
sorest trial to my father's patience.

And now, dear cousin, let us talk of your
other daughter, our absent Euneeice. I do so
long to see her. When is she coming back ?'

In a few days more.'

How glad I am ! And, do tell me — which
is she ? Your oldest girl or your youngest ?'

Neither the one nor the other, Selina.'

Oh, my head ! my head ! This is even
worse than the accent on the ' i ' and the finale.*

Stop ! I am cleverer than I thought I
was. You mean that the girls are twins. Are
they both so exactly like each other that I
shan't know which is which ? What fun !'

When the subject of our ages was unluckily
started at Mrs. Staveley's, I had slipped out
of the difficulty easily b}^ assuming the character
of the eldest sister — an example of ready tact
which my dear stupid Eunice doesn't understand.
In my father's presence, it is needless
to say that I kept silence, and left it to him.
I was sorry to be obliged to do this. Owing
to his sad state of health, he is easily irritated
especially by inquisitive strangers.

I must leave you,' he answered, without
taking the slightest notice of what Miss Jillgall
had said to him. ' My work is waiting forme.'


She stopped him on his way to the door.
Oh, tell me — can't I help you ?'

Thank you ; no. '

Well — but tell me one thing. Am I right
about the twins ?'

You are wrong.'

Miss Jillgall's demonstrative hands flew up
into the air again, and expressed the climax of
astonishment by quivering over her head.
This is positively maddening,' she declared.
What does it mean ?'

• Take my advice, cousin. Don't attempt to
find out what it means.'

He left the room. Miss Jillgall appealed tome.
I imitated my father's wise brevity of
expression : ' Sorry to disappoint you, Selina ;
I know no more about it than yt)u do. Come
upstairs.'

Every step) of the way up to the drawing-room
was marked by a protest or an inquiry.
Did I expect her to believe that I couldn't say
which of us was the elder of the two ? that I
did t really know what my father's motive
was for this extraordinary mystification ? that

my sister and I had submitted to be robbed,
as it were, of our own ages, and had not insisted
on discovering which of us had come into the
world first ? that our friends had not put
an end to this sort of thing by comparing us
personally, and discovering which was the
elder sister by investigation of our faces ?
To all this I replied : First, that I did certainly
expect her to believe whatever I might say:
Secondly, that what she was pleased to call
the ' mystification ' had begun when we were
both children ; that habit had made it familiar
to us in the course of years ; and, above all,
that we were too fond of our good father to
ask for explanations which we knew by experience
would distress him : Thirdly, that
friends did try to discover, by personal examination,
which was the elder sister, and
differed perpetually in their conclusions ; also
that we had amused ourselves by trying the same
experiment before our looking - glasses, and

that Eunice thought Helena was the oldest,
and Helena thought Eunice was the oldest :
Fourthly (and finally), that the Reverend
Mr. Graced heu's cousin had better drop the
subject, unless she was bent on making
her presence in the house unendurable to the
Reverend Mr. Gracedieu himself.

I write it with a sense of humiliation ;
Miss Jillgall listened attentively to all I had
to say — and then took me completely by surprise.
This inquisitive, meddlesome, restless,
impudent woman suddenly transformed herself
into a perfect model of amiability and decorum.
She actually said she agreed with me, and was
much obliged for my good advice !

A stupid young woman, in my place, would
have discovered that this was not natural, and
that Miss Jillgall was presenting herself to mein
disguise, to reach some secret end of her
own. I am not a stupid young woman; I
ought to have had at my service penetration

enough to see through and through cousin
Selina. Well I cousin Selina was an impenetrable
mystery to me.

The one thing to be done was to watch her.
I was at least sly enough to take up a book,
and pretend to be reading it. How contemptible
!

She looked round the room, and discovered
our pretty writing-table : a present to my
father from his congregation. After a little
consideration, she sat down to write a letter.

When does the post go out T she asked.

I mentioned the hour ; and she began her
letter. Before she could have written more
than the first two or three lines, she turned
round on her seat, and began talking tome.


Do you like writing letters, my dear ?'

Yes — but then I have not many letters to
write.'

Only a few friends, Helena, but those few

VOL. I. 14

worthy to be loved ? My own case exactly.
Has your father told you of my troubles ?
Ah, I am. glad of that. It spares me the sad
necessity of confessing what I have suffered.
Oh, how good my friends, my few friends,
were to me in that dull little Belgian town !
One of them was generosity personified — ah,
she had suffered, too ! A vile husband who
had deceived and deserted her. Oh, the men !
When she heard of the loss of my little
fortune, that noble creature got up a subscription
for me, and went round herself to
collect. Think of what I owe to her ! Ought
I to let another day pass without writing to
my benefactress ? Am I not bound in gratitude
to make her happy in the knowledge of
my happiness — I mean the refuge opened tome
in this hospitable house ?'

She twisted herself back a^rain to the writings
and went on with her letter.

I have not attempted to conceal my stupidity.

Let me now record a partial recovery
of my intelligence.

It was not to be denied that Miss Jillgall
had discovered a good reason for writing to
her friend ; but I was at a loss to milder stand
why she should have been so anxious to mention
the reason. Was it impossible — after the
talk which had passed between us — that she
had something mischievous to say in her
letter, relating to my father or to me ? Was
she afraid I might suspect this ? And had
she been so communicative for the purpose of
leading my suspicions astray ? These were
vague guesses; but, try as I might, I could
arrive at no clearer view of what was passing
in Miss Jillgairs mind. What would I not
have given to be able to look over her shoulder,
without discovery !

She finished her letter, and put the address,
and closed the envelope. Then she turned
round towards me aofain.

14—2

^ Have you got a foreign postage-stamp,
dear ?'

If I could look at nothing else, I was resolved
to look at her envelope. It was only
necessary to go to the study, and to apply to
my father. I returned with the foreign stamp,
and I stuck it on the envelope with my own
hand.

There was nothing to interest me in the
address, as I ought to have foreseen, if I had
not been too much excited for the exercise of
a little common sense. Miss JillgalFs wonderful
friend was only remarkable by her ugly
foreign name — Mrs. Tenbruggen.

Eunice's diary.

Here I am, writing my history of myself,
once more, by my own bedside. Some unexpected
events have happened while I have
been away. One of them is the absence of
my sister.

Helena has left home on a visit to a northern
town by the seaside. She is staying in the
house of a minister (one of Papa's friends),
and is occupying a position of dignity in which
I should certainly lose my head. The minister
and his wife and daughters propose to set up a
Girls' Scripture Class, on the plan devised by
Papa; and they are at a loss, poor helpless

people, to know how to begin. Helena has
volunteered to set the thing going. And there
she is now, advising everybody, governing
everybody, encouraging everybody — issuing
directions, finding fault, rewarding merit —
oh, dear, let me put it all in one word, and
say: thoroughly enjoying herself.

Another event has happened, relating to
Papa. It so distressed me that I even forgot
to think of Philip — for a little while.

Travelling by railway (I suppose because I
am not used to it) gives me the headache.
When I got to our station here, I thought it
would do me more good to walk home than to
ride in the noisy omnibus. Half way between
the railway and the town, I met one of the
doctors. He is a member of our congregation
; and he it was who recommended Papa,
some time since, to give up his work as a
minister and take a long holiday in foreign
parts.

I am glad to have met with you,' the
doctor said. ' Your sister, I find, is away on
a visit ; and I want to speak to one of you
about your father.'

It seemed that he had been observing Passa,
in chape], from what he called his own medical
point of view. He did not conceal from me
that he had drawn conclusions which made
him feel uneasy. ' It may be anxiety,' he
said, ' or it may be overwork. In either case,
your father is in a state of nervous derangement,
which is likely to lead to serious results
unless he takes the advice that I gave him
when he last consulted me. There must be
no more hesitation about it. Be careful not
to irritate him — but remember that he must
rest. You and your sister have some influence
over him; he won't listen to me.'

Poor dear Papa ! I did see a change in him
for the Averse — though I had only been away
for so short a time.

When I put my arms round his neck, and
kissed him, he turned pale, and then flushed up
suddenly : the tears came into his eyes. Oh,
it was hard to follow the doctor's advice, and
not to cry too ; but I succeeded in controlling
myself. I sat on his knee, and made him tell
me all that I have written here about Helena.
This led to our talking next of the new lady,
who is to live with us as a member of the
family. I began to feel less uneasy at the
prospect of being introduced to this stranger,
when I heard that she was Papa's cousin. And
when he mentioned her name, and saw how it
amused me, his poor worn face brightened into
a smile. ' Go and find her,' he said, ^ and
introduce yourself I want to hear, Eunice, if
you and my cousin are likely to get on well
together.'

The servants told me that Miss Jillgall was
in the garden.

I searched here, there, and everywhere, and

failed to find her. The place was so quiet, it
looked so deliciously pure and bright, after
smoky dreary London, that I sat down at the
further end of the garden, and let my mind
take me back to Philip. What was he doing
at that moment, while I was thinking of him?
Perhaps he was in the company of other young-ladies,
who drew all his thoughts away to
themselves? Or perhaps he was writing to his
father in Ireland, and saying something kindly
and prettily about me? Or perhaps he was
looking forward, as anxiously as I do, to our
meeting next week.

I have had my plans, and I have changed
my plans.

On the railway journey, I thought I would
tell Papa at once of the new happiness which
seems to have put a new life into me. It
would have been delightful to make my confession
to that first and best and dearest of
friends ; but my meeting with the doctor spoilt

it all. After what be had said to me, I discovered
a risk. If I ventured to tell Papa that
my heart was set on a young gentleman who
was a stranger to him, could I be sure that he
would receive my confession favourably ?
There was a chance that it might irritate him
• — and the fault would then be mine of doing
what I had been warned to avoid. It might
be safer in every way to wait till Philip paid
his visit, and he and Papa had been introduced
to each other and charmed with each other.
Could Helena herself have arrived at a wiser
conclusion ? I declare I felt proud of my Indiscretions


In this enjoyable frame of mind, I was disturbed
by a woman's voice. The tone was a
tone of distress, and the words reached my ears
from the end of the garden : ' Please, Miss, let
me in.'

A shrubbery marks the limit of our little bit
of pleasure-ground. On the other side of it,

there is a cottage standing on the edge of the
common. The most good-natured woman in
the world lives here. She is om laundress —
married to a stupid young fellow named Molly,
and blest with a plump baby as sweet-tempered
as herself. Thinking it likely that the piteous
voice which had disturbed me might be the
voice of Mrs. Molly, I was astonished to hear
her appealing to anybody (perhaps to me?) tolet
her in.' So I passed through the shrubbery,
wondering whether the gate had been
locked during my absence in London. No ; it
was as easy to open as ever.

The cottage door was not closed.

I saw our amiable laundress in the passage,
on her knees, trying to open an inner door
which seemed to be locked. She had her eye
at the keyhole ; and, once again, she called
out : ' Please, Miss, let me in.' I waited to
see if the door would be opened — nothing
happened. I waited again, to hear if some

person inside would answer — nobody spoke.
But somebody, or something, made a sound
of splashing water on the other side of the
door.

I showed myself, and asked what was the
matter.

Mrs. Molly looked at me helplessly. She
said : ^ Miss Eunice, it's the baby.'

What has the baby done ?' I inquired.

Mrs. Molly got on her feet, and whispered in
my ear : * You know he's a fine child ?'

Yes.'

Well, Miss, he's bewitched a lady.'

'What lady?'

Miss Jillgall.'

The very person I had been trying to find !
I asked where she was.

The laundress pointed dolefully to the locked
door : ' In there.'

And where is your baby ?'

The poor woman still pointed to the door :

I'm beginning to doubt, Miss, whether it w
my baby.'

Nonsense, Mrs. Molly. If it isn't yours,
whose baby can it be?'

Miss Jillgall's.'

Her puzzled face made this singular reply
more funny stilL The splashing of water on
the other side of the door began again. ' What
is Miss Jillo^all doing; now?' I said.

Washing the baby, Miss. A week ago,
she came in here, one morning ; very pleasant
and kind, I must own. She found me putting
on the baby's things. She says : " What a
cherub !" which I took as a compliment. She
says : " I shall call again tomorrow." She
called again so early that she found the baby
in his crib. " You be a good soul," she says,
and go about your work, and leave the child
to me." I says : " Yes, Miss, but please to
wait till I've made him fit to be seen." She
says : "That's just what I mean to do myself"

I stared ; and I think any other person would
have done the same in my place. ** If there's
one thing more than another I enjoy' she says,
'' it's making myself useful. Mrs. Molly, I've
taken a fancy to your boy-baby' she says,
'' and I mean to make myself useful to Mir
If you will believe it, Miss Jillgall has only let
me have one opportunity of putting my own
child tidy. She was late this morning, and I
got my chance, and had the boy on my laj:),
drying him — when in she burst like a blast of
wind, and snatched the baby away from me.
"This is your nasty temper," she says ; " I
declare I'm ashamed of you !" And there she
is, with the door locked against me, washing
the child all over again herself. Twice I've
knocked, and asked her to let me in, and can't
even get an answer. They do say there's luck
in odd numbers ; suppose I try again?' Mrs.
Molly knocked, and the proverb proved to be
true \ she got an answer from Miss Jillgall at

last : ' If you don't be quiet and go away, you
shan't have the baby back at au Who could
help it ? — I burst out laughing. Miss Jillgall
(as I supposed from the tone of her voice) took
severe notice of this act of impropriety.
'AVho's that laughing?' she called out ; 'give
yourself a name.' I gave my name. The door
was instantly thrown open with a bang. Papa's
cousin appeared, in a dishevelled state, with
splashes of soap and water all over her. She
held the child in one arm, and she threw the
other arm round my neck. ' Dearest Euneece,
I have been longing to see you. How do you
like Our baby?'

To the curious story of my introduction to
Miss Jillgall, I ought perhaps to add that I
have got to be friends with her already. I am
the friend of anybody who amuses me. What
Till Helena say when she reads this ?

EUNICE S DIARY.

When people are interested in some event that
is coming, do they find the dull days, passed
in waiting for it, days which they are not able
to remember when they look back ? This is
my unfortunate case. Night after night, I
have gone to bed without so much as opening
my Journal. There was nothing worth
writing about, nothing that I could recollect,
until the postman came to-day. I ran downstairs,
when I heard his ring at the bell, and
stopped Maria on her way to the study. There,
among Papa's usual handful of letters, was a
letter for me.

Dear Miss Eunice,

*****

Yours ever truly.'

I quote the passages in Philip's letter which
most deeply interest me — I am his dear Miss ;
and he is mine ever truly. The other part of
the letter told me that he had been detained in
London, and he lamented it. At the end was
a delightful announcement that he was coming
to me by the afternoon train. I ran upstairs
to see how I looked in the glass.

My first feeling was regret. For the
thousandth time, I was obliged to acknowledge
that I was not as pretty as Helena. But this
passed off. A cheering reflection occurred tome.
Philip would not have found, in my
sister's face, what seems to have interested him
in my face. Besides, there is my figure.

The pity of it is that I am so ignorant about

some things. If I had been allowed to read

novels, I might (judging by what Papa said
VOL. I. 15

against them in one of his sermons) have felt
sure of my own attractions; I might even have
understood what Philip really thought of me.
However, my mind was quite unexpectedly set
at ease on the subject of my figure. The
manner in which it happened was so amusing
at least, so amusing to me — that I cannot
resist mentioning it.

My sister and I are forbidden to read newspapers,
as well as novels. But the teachers at
the Girl's Scripture Class are too old to be
treated in this way. When the morning lessons
were over, one of them was reading the newspaper
to the other, in the empty school-room ;
I being in the passage outside, putting on my
cloak.

It was a report of * an application made to
the magistrates by the lady of his worship the
Mayor.' Hearing this, I stopped to listen.
The lady of his worship (what a funny way of
describing a man's wife!) is resorted to be a

little too fond of notoriety, and to like hearing
the sound of her own voice on public occasions.
But this is only my writing ; I had better get
back to the report. ^ In her address to the
magistrates, the Mayoress stated that she had
seen a disgusting photograph in the shop window
of a stationer, lately established in the
town. She desired to bring this person within
reach of the law, and to have all his copies of
the shameless photograph destroyed. The
usher of the court was thereupon sent to purchase
the photograph.' — On second thoughts, T
prefer going back to my own writing again ; it
is so uninteresting to copy other people's
writing. Two of the magistrates were doing
justice. They looked at the photograph — and
what did it represent? The famous statue
called the Venus de' Medici! One of the
magistrates took [this discovery indignantly.
He was shocked at the gross ignorance which
could call the classic ideal of beauty and grace

15—^

a disgusting work. The other one made polite
allowances. He thought the lady was much
to be pitied ; she was evidently the innocent
victim of a neglected education. Mrs. Mayor
left the court in a rage, telling the justices she
knew where to get law. ' I shall expose
Venus,' she said, Ho the Lord Chancellor.'

When the Scripture Class had broken up for
the day, duty ought to have taken me home.
Curiosity led me astray — I mean, led me to
the stationer's window.

There I found our two teachers, absorbed in
the photograph ; having got to the shop first
by a short cut. They seemed to think I had
taken a liberty when I joined them. ' We are
here they were careful to explain, ^ to get a
lesson in the ideal of beauty and grace.' There
was quite a little crowd of townsfolk collected
before the window. Some of them giggled ;
and some of them wondered whether it was
taken from the Hfe. For my own part, gratitude

to Venus obliges me to own that she
effected a great improvement in the state of my
mind. She encouraged me. If that stumpy
little creative — with no waist, and oh, such
uncertain legs! — represented the ideal of
beauty and grace, I had reason indeed to be
satisfied with my own figure, and to think it
quite possible that my sweetheart's favourable
opinion of me was not ill-bestowed.

I was at the bedroom window when the time
approached for Philip's arrival.

Quite at the far end of the road, I discovered
him. He was on foot ; he walked like a King.
l!s'ot that I ever saw a King, but I have my
ideal. Ah, what a smile he gave me, when I
made him look up by waving my handkerchief
out of the window ! 'Ask for Papa,' I
whispered as he ascended the house steps.

The next thing to do was to wait, as
patiently as I could, to be sent for downstairs.
Maria came to me in a state of excitement.

*01i, Miss, what a handsome young gentleman,

and how beautifully dressed! Is he ?'

Instead of finishing what she had to say, she
looked at me with a sly smile. I looked at
her with a sly smile. We were certainly a
couple of fools. But, dear me, how happy
sometimes a fool can be !

My enjoyment of that delightful time was
checked when I went into the drawing-room.


I had expected to see Papa's face made
beautiful by his winning smile. He was not
only serious ; he actually seemed to be ill at
ease when he looked at me. At the same time,
I saw nothing to make me conclude that
Philip had produced an unfavourable impression.
The truth is, we were all three on our
best behaviour, and we showed it. Philip had
brought with him a letter from Mrs. Staveley,
introducing him to Papa. AVe spoke of the
Staveleys, of the weather, of the Cathedral —

and then there seemed to be nothing more left
to talk about.

In the silence that followed — what a dreadful
thing silence is ! — Papa was sent for to see
somebody who had called on business. He
made his excuses in his sweetest manner, but
still seriously. AVhen he and Philip had
shaken hands, would he leave us together?
No ; he waited. Poor Philip had no choice
but to take leave of me. Papa then went outby
the door that led into his study, and I was
left alone.

Can any words say how wretched I felt ?

I had hoped so much from that first meeting
and where were my hopes now ? A profane
wish that I had never been born was finding
its way into my mind, when the door of the
room was opened softly, from the side of the
passage. Maria, dear Maria, the best friend
I have, peeped in. She whispered : ' Go into
the garden, Miss, and you will find somebody

there who is dying to see you. Mind you let
him out by the shrubbery gate.' I squeezed
her hand ; I asked if she had tried the shrubbery
gate with a sweetheart of her own.
Hundreds of times, Miss.'

Was it wrong for me to go to Philip in the
garden ? Oh, there is no end to objections !
Perhaps I did it because it was wrong. Perhaps
I had been kept on my best behaviour too
long for human endurance.

How sadly disappointed he looked ! And
how rashly he had placed himself just where
he could be seen from the back windows ! I
took his arm and led him to the end of the
garden. There, we were out of the reach
of inquisitive eyes ; and there we sat down
together, under the big mulberry tree.

Oh, Eunice, your father doesn't like me!'

Those were his first words. In justice to
Papa (and a little for my own sake too) I
told him he was quite wrong. I said : ' Trust

my father's goodness, trust his kindness, as
I do.'

He made no reply. His silence was sufficiently
expressive ; he looked at me fondly.

I may be wrong, but fond looks surely
require an acknowledgment of some kind ?
Is a young woman guilty of boldness who
only follows her impulses ? I slipped my
hand into his hand. Philip seemed to like it.
We returned to our conversation.

He began : ' Tell me, dear, is Mr. Gracedieu
always as serious as he is to-day ?'

'Oh no!'

When he takes exercise, does he ride ? or
does he walk ?'

Papa always walks.'

By himself ?'

Sometimes by himself. Sometimes with
me. Do you want to meet him when he goes
out?'

Yes.'

When he is out with me ?'

No. When he is out by himself.'

Was it possible to tell me more plainly that
I was not wanted ? I did my best to express
indignation by snatching my hand away from
him. He was completely taken by surprise.

Eunice ! don't you understand me ?'

I was as stupid and as disagreeable as I
could possibly be : ' No ; I don't !'

Then let me help you,' he said, with a
patience which I had not deserved.

Up to that moment I had been leaning
against the back of a garden chair. Something
else now got between me and my chair.
It stole round my waist — it held me gently —
it strengthened its hold — it improved my
temper — it made me fit to understand him.
All done by what ? Only an arm !

Philip went on :

I want to ask your father to do me the
greatest of all favours — and there is no time

to lose. Every day, I expect to get a letter
which may recall me to Ireland.'

My heart sank at this horrid prospect ; and
in some mysterious way my head must have
felt it too. I mean that I found my head
resting on his shoulder. He went on :

How am I to get my opportunity of
speaking to Mr. Gracedieu ? I mustn't call
on him again as soon as tomorrow or next
day. But I might meet him, out walking
alone, if you will tell me how to do it. A
note to my hotel is all I want. Don't tremble,
my sweet. If you are not present at the
time, do you see any objection to my owning
to your father that I love you ?'

I felt his delicate consideration for me — I
did indeed feel it gratefully. If he only spoke
first, how well I should get on with Papa
afterwards ! The prospect before me was
exquisitely encouraging. I agreed with
PhiHp in everything ; and I waited (how

eagerly was only known to myself) to hear
what he would say to me next. He prophesied
next :

When I have told your father that I love
you, he will expect me to tell him something
else. Can you guess what it is ?'

If I had not been confused, perhaps I
might have found the answer to this. As it
was, I left him to reply to himself He did
it, in words which I shall remember as long
as I live.

^ Dearest Eunice, when your father has
heard my confession, he will suspect that
there is another confession to follow it — he
will want to know if you love me. My angel,
will my hopes be your hopes too, when I
answer him ?'

What there was in this to make my heart
beat so violently that I felt as if I was being
stifled, is more than I can tell. He leaned so
close to me, so tenderly, so delightfully close,

that our faces nearly touched. He whispered :
Say you love me, m a kiss !'

His lips touched my lips, pressed them,
dwelt on them — oh, how can I tell of it !
Some new enchantment of feeling ran deliciously
through and through me. I forgot
my own self; I only knew of one person in
the world. He was master of my lips ; he
was master of my heart. When he whispered :
Kiss me,' I kissed him. What a moment
it was ! A faintness stole over me ; I felt as
if I was going to die some exquisite death ; I
laid myself back away from him — I was notable
to speak. There was no need for it ; my
thoughts and his thoughts were one — he
knew that I was quite overcome ; he saw
that he must leave me to recover myself alone.
I pointed to the shrubbery gate. We took
one long last look at each other for that day ;
the trees hid him ; I was left by myself.

Eunice's diary.

How long a time passed before my composure
came back to me, I cannot remember now.
It seemed as if I was waiting; throus^li some
interval of my life that was a mystery to
myself. I was content to wait, and feel the
light evening air in the garden wafting happiness
over me. And all this had come from a
kiss ! I can call the time to mind when I
used to wonder why people made such a fuss
about kissing.

I had been indebted to Maria for my first
taste of Paradise. I was recalled by Maria to
the world that I had been accustomed to live

in ; the world that was beginning to fade away
in my memory already. She had been sent to
the garden in search of me ; and she had
a word of advice to offer, after noticing my
face when I stepped out of the shadow of the
tree : ' Try to look more like yourself, Miss,
before you let them see you at the tea-table.'


Papa and Miss Jillgall were sitting together
talking, when I opened the door. They left off
when they saw me ; and I supposed, quite
correctly as it turned out, that I had been one
of the subjects in their course of conversation.
My poor father seemed to be sadly anxious
and out of sorts. Miss Jillgall, if I had been
in the humour to enjoy it, would have been
more amusing than ever. One of her funny
little eyes persisted in winking at me ; and
her heavy foot had something to say to my
foot, under the table, which meant a great

deal perhaps, but which only succeeded in
hurting me.

My father left us ; and Miss Jillgall explained
herself.

I know, dearest Euneece, that we have
only been acquainted for a day or two, and
that I ought not perhaps to have expected you
to confide in me so soon. Can I trust you
not to betray me if I set an example of confidence
? Ah, I see I can trust you ! And,
my dear, I do so enjoy telling secrets to a
friend. Hush! Your father, your excellent
father, has been talking to me about young
Mr. Dunboyne.'

She provokingly stopped there. I entreated
her to go on. She invited me to sit on her
knee. ' I want to whisper,' she said. It was
too ridiculous — but I did it. Miss Jillgall's
whisper told me serious news.

The minister has some reason, Euneece,
for disapproving of Mr. Dunboyne ; but, mind

this, I don't think he has a bad opinion of the
young man himself. He is going to return
Mr. Dunboyne's calL Oh, I do so hate formality
; I really can't go on talking of Mr.
Dunboyne. Tell me his Christian name. Ah,
what a noble name ! How I long to be useful
to him ! To-morrow, my dear, after the one
o'clock dinner your Paj^a will call on Philip,
at his hotel. I hope he won't be out, just at
the wrong time.'

I resolved to prevent that unlucky accident
by writing to Philip. If Miss Jillgall would
have allowed it, I should have begun my letter
at once. But she had more to say ; and she
was stronger than I was, and still kept me on
her knee.

It all looks bright enough so far, doesn't
it, dear sister ? Will you let me be your second
sister ? I do so love you, Euneece. Thank
you ! thank you ! But the gloomy side of
the picture is to come next. The minister —

VOL. I. 16

no ! now I am your sister I must call him
Papa ; it makes me feel so young again !
Well, then, Papa has asked me to be your
companion whenever you go out. " Euneece
is too young and too attractive to be walking
about this great town (in Helena's absence)
by herself." That was how he put it. Slyly
enough, if one may say so of so good a man.
And he used your sister (didn't he ?) as a
kind of excuse. I wish your sister was as
nice as you are. However, the point is, why
am I to be your companion ? Because, dear
child, you and your young gentleman are not
to make appointments and to meet each other
alone. Oh, yes — that's it ! Your father is
quite willing to return Philip's call ; he proposes
(as a matter of civility to Mrs. Staveley)
to ask Philip to dinner ; but, mark my words,
he doesn't mean to let Philip have you for his
wife.'

I jumped ois her lao ; it was horrible to

hear her. ^ Oh,' I said, ' can you be right
about it ?'

Miss Jillgall jumped up too. She has
foreign ways of shrugging her shoulders and
making signs with her hands. On this occasion
she laid both hands on the upper part of
her dress, just below her throat, and mysteriously
shook her head.

When my views are directed by my affections
she assured me, ' I never see wrong.
My bosom is my strong point.'

She has no bosom, poor soul — but I understood
what she meant. It failed to have any
soothing effect on my feelings. I felt grieved
and angry and puzzled, all in one. Miss
Jillgall stood looking at me, with her hands
still on the place where her bosom was supposed
to be. She made my temper hotter
than ever.

I mean to marry Philip,' I said.

16—2

^ Certainly, my dear Euneece. But please
don't be so fierce about it.'

If my father does really object to my
marriage I went on, ' it must be because he
dislikes Philip. There can be no other
reason.'

Oh, yes, dear — there can.'

What is the reason, then ?'

That, my sweet girl, is one of the things
that we have got to find out.'

w ^ ^ w ^

The post of this morning brought a letter
from my sister. We were to expect her
return by the next day's train. This was
good news. Philip and I might stand in
need of clever Helena's help, and we might be
sure of getting it now.

In writing to Philip, I had asked him to let
me hear how Papa and he had got on at the
hotel.

I won't say how often I consulted my watch,

or how often I looked out of the window for a
man with a letter in his hand. It will be
better to get on at once to the discouraging
end of it, when the report of the interview
reached me at last. Twice, Philip had attempted
to ask for my hand in marriage — and
twice my father had ' deliberately, obstinately '
(Philip's own words) changed the subject.
Even this was not all. As if he was determined
to show that Miss Jillgall was perfectly
right, and I perfectly wrong, Papa
(civil to Philip as long as he did not talk of
Me) had asked him to dine with us, and Philip
had accepted the invitation !

What were we to think of it ? What were
we to do ?

I wrote back to my dear love (so cruelly
used) to tell him that Helena was expected to
return on the next day, and that her opinion
would be of the greatest value to both of us.
In a postscript, I mentioned the hour at which

we were going to the station to meet my sister.
When I say ' we,' I mean Miss Jillgall as well
as myself.

^ 4& -^ ^ .u*

w "yr w ^ ^

We found him waiting for us at the railway.
I am afraid he resented Papa's incomprehensible
resolution not to give him a
hearing. He was silent and sullen. I could
not conceal that to see this state of feeling
distressed me. He showed how truly he deserved
to be loved — he begged my pardon,
and he became his own sweet self again
directly. I am more determined to marry
him than ever.

When the train entered the station, all the
carriages were full. I went one way, thinking
I had seen Helena. Miss Illo-all went the
other way, under the same impression. Philip
was a little way behind me.

Not seeing my sister, I had just turned
back, when a young man jumped out of a

carriage, opposite Philip, and recognised and
shook hands with him. I was j must near enough
to hear the stranger say, ' Look at the girl in
our carriage.' Philip looked. ' AYhat a charming
creature!' he said, and then checked himself
for fear the young lady should hear him.
She had just handed her travelling bag and
wraps to a porter, and was getting out. Philip
politely ' offered his hand to help her. She
looked my way. The charming creature of
my sweetheart's admiration was, to my infinite
amusement, Helena herself.

Helena's diary.

The day of my return marks an occasion
which I am not likely to forget. Hours have
passed since I came home — and my agitation
still forbids the thought of repose.

As I sit at my desk I see Eunice in bed,
sleeping peacefully, except when she is murmuring
enjoyment in some happy dream. To
what end has my sister been advancing blindfold,
and (who knows ?) dragging me with
her, since that disastrous visit to our friends
in London ? Strange that there should be a
leaven of superstition in my nature ! Strange
that I should feel fear of something — I hardly
know what !

I have met somewhere (perhaps m my
historical reading) with the expression ; ' A
chain of events Was I at the beginning; of
that chain, when I entered the railway carriage
on my journey home ?

Among the other passengers there was a
young gentleman, accompanied by a lady who
proved to be his sister. They were both well-bred
people. The brother evidently admired
me, and did his best to make himself agreeable.
Time passed quickly in pleasant talk, and my
vanity was flattered — and that was all.

My fellow-travellers were going on to
London. When the train reached our station
the young lady sent her brother to buy some
fruit, which she saw in the window of the
refreshment-room. The first man whom he
encountered on the platform was one of his
friends, to whom he said something which I
failed to hear. When I handed my travelling
bag and my wraps to the porter, and showed

myself at the carriage door, I heard the
friend say: 'What a charming creature!'
Having nothing to conceal in a journal which
I protect by a lock, I may own that the
stranger's personal appearance struck me, and
that what I felt this time was not flattered
vanity, but gratified pride. He was young, he
was remarkably handsome, he was a destine
man.

All this happened in one moment. In the
moment that followed, I found myself in
Eunice's arms. That odious person. Miss
Jillgall, insisted on embracing me next. And
then I was conscious of an indescribable feeling
of surprise. Eunice presented the 
gentleman to me as a
friend of hers — Mr. Philip Dunboyne.

I had the honour of meeting your sister,'
he said, ' in London, at Mr. Staveley's house.'
He went on to speak easily and gracefully of
the journey I had taken, and of his friend

who had been my fellow-traveller ; and he
attended us to the railway omnibus before he
took his leave. I observed that Eunice had
something to say to him confidentially, before
they parted. This was another example of
my sister's childish character ; she is instantly
familiar with new acquaintances, if she happens
to like them. I anticipated some amusement
from hearing how she had contrived to establish
confidential relations with a highly-cultivated
man like Mr. Dunboyne. But,
while Miss Jillgall was With us, it was just as
well to keep within the limits of common-place
conversation.

Before we got out of the omnibus I had,
however, observed one undesirable result of
my absence from home. Eunice and Miss
Jillgall — the latter having, no doubt, finely
flattered the former — appeared to have taken
a strong liking to each other.

Two curious circumstances also caught my

attention. I saw a change to, what I call
self-assertion, in my sister's manner; something
seemed to have raised her in her own
estimation. Then, again, Miss Jillgall was
not like her customary self. She had delightful
moments of silence ; and when
Eunice asked how I liked Mr. Dunboyne,
she listened to my reply with an appearance
of interest in her ugly face, which was quite a
new revelation in my experience of my father's
cousin.

These little discoveries (after what I had
already observed at the railway-station) ought
perhaps to have prepared me for what was to
come, when my sister and I were alone in our
room. But Eunice, whether she meant to doit
or not, baffled my customary penetration.
She looked as if she had plenty of news to
tell me — with some obstacle in the way of
doing it, which appeared to amuse instead of
annoying her. If there is one thing more than

another that I hate, it is being puzzled. I
asked at once if anything remarkable had
happened during Eunice's visit to London.

She smiled mischievously. ' I have got a
delicious surprise for you, my dear ; and I do
so enjoy prolonging it. Tell me, Helena, what
did you propose we should both do when
we found ourselves at home again ?'

My memory was at fault. Eunice's good
spirits became absolutely boisterous. She
called out : ' Catch !' and tossed her journal
into my hands, across the whole length of the
room. ' AYe were to read each other's diaries
she said. ' There is mine to begin with.'

Innocent of any suspicion of the true state
of affairs, I began the reading of Eunice's
journal.

If I had not seen the familiar handwriting,
nothing would have induced me to believe that
a girl brought up in a pious household, the
well beloved daughter of a distinguished Congregational

Minister, could have written that
shameless record of passions unknown to
young ladies in respectable English life.
What to say, what to do, when I had closed
the book, was more than 1 felt myself equal to
decide. My wretched sister spared me the
anxiety which I might otherwise have felt.
It was she who first opened her lips, after the
silence that had fallen on us while I was reading.
These were literally the words that
she said :

My darling, why don't you congratulate
me?'

No argument could have persuaded me, as
this persuaded me, that all sisterly remonstrance
on my part would be completely
thrown away.

My dear Eunice,' I said, ' let me beg you
to excuse me. I am waiting '

There she interrupted me — and, oh, in what
an impudent manner! She took my chin

between her finger and thumb, and lifted my
downcast face, and looked at me with an
appearance of eager expectation which I was
quite at a loss to understand.

You have been away from home, too,' she
said. ' Do I see in this serious face some
astonishing news waiting to overpower me?
Have you found a sweetheart ? Are you
engaged to be married?'

I only put her hand away from me, and
advised her to return to her chair. This
perfectly harmless proceeding seemed absolutely
to frighten her.

^ Oh, my dear,' she burst out, ' surely you
are not jealous of me?'

There was but one possible reply to this : I
laughed at it. Is Eunice's head turned? She
kissed me !

Now you laugh,' she said, ' I begin to
understand you again ; I ought to have
known that you are superior to jealousy.

But, do tell me, would it be so very wonderful
if other girls found something to envy in
my good luck? Just think of it! Such a
handsome man, such an agreeable man, such a
clever man, such a rich man — and, not the
least of his merits, by-the-bye, a man who
admires You. Come ! if you won't congratulate
me, congratulate yourself on having such
a brother-in-law in prospect!'

Her head incas turned. I drew the poor
soul's attention compassionately to what I had
said a moment since.

Pardon me, dear, for reminding you that I
have not yet refused to offer my congratulations.
I only told you I was waiting.'

For what ?'

'Waiting, of course, to hear what my
father thinks of your wonderful good luck.'

This explanation, offered with the kindest
intentions, produced another change in my
very variable sister. I had extinguished her

good spirits as I might have extinguished a
light. She sat down by me, and sighed in
the saddest manner. The heart must be hard
indeed which can resist the distress of a person
-who is dear to us. I put my arm round her ;
she was becoming once more the Eunice whom
I so dearly loved.

My poor child,' I said, * don't distress yourself
by speaking of it ; I understand. Your
father objects to your marrying Mr. Dun-boyne.'


She shook her head. * I can't exactly say,
Helena, that Papa does that. He only behaves
very strangely.'

Am I indiscreet, dear, if I ask in what
way father's behaviour has surprised you ?'

She was quite willing to enlighten me. It
was a simple little story which, to my mind,
sufficiently explained the strange behaviour
that had puzzled my unfortunate sister.

There could indeed be no doubt that my

VOL. I. 17

father considered Eunice far too childish in
character, as yet, to undertake the duties of
matrimony. But, with his customary delicacy,
and dread of causing distress to others, he had
deferred the disagreeable duty of communicating
his opinion to Mr. Dunboyne. The
adverse decision must, however, be sooner
or later announced ; and he had arranged to
inflict disappointment, as tenderly as might
be, at his own table.

Considerately leaving Eunice in the enjoyment
of any vain hopes which she may have
founded on the event of the dinner-party, I
passed the evening until supper-time came
in the study with my father.

Our talk was mainly devoted to the worthy
people with whom I had been staying, and
whose new schools I had helped to found.
Not a word was said relating to my sister,
or to Mr. Dunboyne. Poor father looked so
sadly weary and ill that I ventured, after what

the doctor had said to Eunice, to hint at
the value of rest and change of scene to an
overworked man. Oh, dear me, he frowned,
and waved the subject away from him impatiently,
with a wan pale hand.

After supper, I made an unpleasant discovery.


Not having completely finished the unpacking
of my boxes, I left Miss Jillgall
and Eunice in the drawing-room, and went
upstairs. In half an hour I returned, and
found the room empty. What had become of
them ? It was a fine moonlight night ; I
stepped into the back drawing-room, and
looked out of the window. There they were,
walking arm-in-arm with their heads close
together, deep in talk. With my knowledge
of Miss Jillgall, I call this a bad sign.

An odd thought has just come to me, I
wonder what might have happened, if I had
been visiting at Mrs. Staveley's, instead of

17—2

Eunice, and if Mr. Dunboyne had seen me
first.

Absurd ! If I was not too tired to do
anything more, those last lines should be
scratched out.

Eunice's diary.

I SAID so to Miss Jillgall, and I say it again
here. Nothing will induce me to think ill
of Helena.

My sister is a good deal tired, and a little
out of temper after the railway journey. This
is exactly what happened to me when I went
to London. I attribute her refusal to let me
read her journal, after she had read mine,
entirely to the disagreeable consequences of
travelling by railway. bliss Jillgall accounted
for it otherwise, in her own funny manner:
My sweet child, your sister's diary is full
of abuse of poor me.' I humoured the joke:

Dearest Selina, keep a diary of your own,
and hill it with abuse of my sister.' This
seemed to be a droll saying at the time. But
it doesn't look particularly amusing, now it is
written down. We had ginger wine at supper,
to celebrate Helena's return. Although I
only drank one glass, I dare say it may have
got into my head.

However that may be, when the lovely
moonlight tempted us into the garden, there
was an end to our jokes. We had something
to talk about which still dwells disagreeably
on my mind.

Miss Jillgall began it.

If I trust you, dearest Euneece, with my
own precious secrets, shall I never, never,
never live to repent it ?'

I told my good little friend that she might
depend on me, provided her secrets did no
harm to any person whom I loved.

She clasped her hands and looked up at the

moon — I can only suppose that her sentiments
overpowered her. She said, very prettily, that
her heart and my heart beat together in
heavenly harmony. It is needless to add
that this satisfied me.

Miss Jillgall's generous confidence in my
discretion was, I am afraid, not rewarded as it
ought to have been. I found her tiresome
at first.

She spoke of an excellent friend (a lady),
who had helped her, at the time when she lost
her little fortune, by raising a . subscription
privately to pay the expenses of her return to
England. Her friend's name — not very attractive
to English ears — was Mrs. Tenbruggen;
they had first become acquainted under interesting
circumstances. Miss Jillgall happened
to mention that my father was her
only living relative ; and it turned out that
Mrs. Tenbruggen was familiar with his name,
and reverenced his fame as a preacher. When

he had generously received his poor helpless
cousin under his own roof, Miss Jillgall's
gratitude and sense of duty impelled her to
write, and tell Mrs. Tenbruggen how happy
she was as a member of our family.

Let me confess that I began to listen more
attentively when the narrative reached this
point.

'I drew a little picture of our domestic
circle here,' Miss Jillgall said, describing her
letter ; ' and I mentioned the mystery in
which Mr. Gracedieu conceals the ages of you
two dear girls. Mrs. Tenbruggen — shall we
shorten her ugly name, and call her Mrs. T. ?
Very well — Mrs. T. is a remarkably clever
woman, and I looked for interesting results, if
she would give her opinion of the mysterious
circumstance mentioned in my letter.'

By this time, I was all eagerness to hear
more.

Plan she written to you ?' I asked.

Miss Jillgall looked at me affectionately, and
took the reply out of her pocket.

Listen, Euneece ; and you shall hear her
own words. Thus she writes :

" Your letter, dear Selina, especially interests
me by what it says about the two Miss
Gracious." — Look, dear ; she underlines the
word Two. Why, I can't explain. Can you ?
Ah, I thought not. Well, let us get back to
the letter. My accomplished friend continues
in these terms :

" I can understand the surprise which you
have felt at the strange course taken by their
father, as a means of concealing the difference
which there must be in the ages of these
young ladies. Many years since, I happened
to discover a romantic incident in the life
of your popular preacher, which he has his
reasons, as I suspect, for keeping strictly to
himself. If I may venture on a bold guess, I
should say that any person who could discover

which was the oldest of the two daughters,
would be also likely to discover the true
nature of the romance in Mr. Gracedieu's life."
Isn't that very remarkable, Euneece ? You
don't seem to see it — you funny child ! Pray
pay particular attention to what comes next.
These are the closing sentences in my friend's
letter :

•' If you find anything new to tell me which
relates to this interesting subject, direct your
letter as before — provided you write within
a week from the present time. Afterwards,
my letters will be received by the English
physician whose card I enclose. You will be
pleased to hear that my professional interests
call me to London at the earliest moment that
I can spare." — There, dear child, the letter
comes to an end. I dare say you wonder what
Mrs. T. means, when she alludes to her
professional interests ?'

No : I was not wondering about anything.

It hurt me to hear of a strange woman exercising
her ingenuity in guessing at mysteries
in Papa's Hfe.

But Miss Jillgall was too eagerly bent on
setting forth the merits of her friend to notice
this. I now heard that Mrs, T.'s marriage
had turned out badly, and that she had been
reduced to earn her own bread. Her manner
of doing this was something quite new to me.
She went about, from one place to another,
curing people of all sorts of painful maladies,
by a way she had of rubbing them with her
hands. In Belgium she was called a ' Mas-sense.'
When I asked what this meant in
English, I was told, ' Medical Rubber,' and
that the fame of Mrs. T.'s wonderful cures had
reached some of the medical newspapers published
in London.

After listening (I must say for myself) very
patiently, I was bold enough to ot\ti that my
interest in what I had just heard was not

quite so plain to me as I could have wished it
to be.

Miss Jillgall looked shocked at my stupidity.
She reminded me that there was
a mystery in Mrs. Tenbruggen's letter, and a
mystery in Papa's strange conduct towards
Philip. ' Put two and two together, darling
she said ; ' and, one of these days, they may
make four.'

If this meant anything, it meant that the
reason which made Papa keep) Helena's age
and my age unknown to everybody but himself,
was also the reason why he seemed to be
so strangely unwilling to let me be Philip's
wife. I really could not endure to take such
a view of it as that, and begged Miss Jill-gall
to drop the subject. She was as kind as
ever.

'With all my heart, dear. But don't deceive
yourself — the subject will turn up again
when we least expect it.'

Eunice's diary.

Only two days now, before we give our little
dinner-party, and Philip finds his opportunity
of speaking to Papa. Oh, how I wish that
day had come and gone !

I try not to take gloomy views of things ;
but I am not quite so happy as I had expected
to be when my dear was in the same town
with me. If Papa had encouraged him to call
again, we might have had some precious time
to ourselves. As it is, we can only meet in
the different show-places in the town — with
Helena on one side, and Miss Jillgall on the
other, to take care of us. I do call it cruel

not to let two young people love each other,
without setting third persons to watch them.
If I was Queen of England, I would have
pretty private bowers made for lovers, in
the summer, and nice warm little rooms to
hold two, in the winter. Why not ? What
harm could come of it, I should like to
know !

The cathedral is the place of meeting which
we find most convenient, under the circumstances.
There are delightful nooks and
corners about this celebrated building, in
which lovers can lag behind. If we had been
in Papa's chapel I should have hesitated to
turn it to such a profane use as this ; the
cathedral doesn't so much matter.

Shall I own that I felt my inferiority to
Helena a little keenly ? She could tell Philip
so many things that I should have liked to
tell him first. My clever sister taught him
how to pronounce the name of the bishop who

began building the cathedral ; she led him
over the crypt, and told him how old it was.
He was interested in the crypt ; he talked to
Helena (not to me) of his ambition to write a
work on cathedral architecture in England ;
he made a rough little sketch in his book of
our famous tomb of some King. Helena knew
the late royal personage's name, and Philip
showed his sketch to her before he showed it
to me. How can I. blame him, when I stood
there the picture of stupidity, trying to recollect
something that I might tell him, if it
was only the Dean's name ? Helena might
have whispered it to me, I think. She remembered
it, not I — and mentioned it to
Philip, of course. I kept close by him all the
time, and now and then he gave me a look
which raised my spirits. He might have
given me something better than that — I mean
a kiss — when we had left the cathedral, and
were by ourselves for a moment in a corner

of the Dean's garden. But he missed the
opportunity. Perhaps he was afraid of the
Dean himself coming that way, and happening
to see us. However, I am far from
thinking the worse of Philip. I gave his
arm a little squeeze — and that was better than
nothing.

He and I took a walk along the bank of the
river to-day ; my sister and Miss Jillgall looking
after us as usual.

On our way through the town, Helena
stopped to give an order at a shop. She
asked us to wait for her. That best of good
creatures, Miss Jillgall, whispered in my ear :
Go on by yourselves, and leave me to wait
for her.' Philip interpreted this act of kindness
in a manner which would have vexed me
if I had not understood that it was one of his
jokes. He said to me : ' Miss Jillgall sees a

chance of annoying your sister, and enjoys
the prospect.'

Well, away we went together; it was just
what I Avant ; it gave me an opportunity
of saying something to Philip, between ourselves.


I could now beg of him, in his interests and
mine, to make the best of himself when he
came to dinner. Clever people, 1 told him,
were people whom Papa liked and admired.
I said : ' Let him see, dear, how clever you
are, and how many things you know — and
you can't imagine what a high place you will
have in his opinion. I hope you don't think
I am taking too much on myself in telling
you how to behave.'

He relieved that doubt in a manner which
I despair of describing. His eyes rested on
me with such a look of exquisite sweetness
and love, that I was obliged to hold by his arm,
I trembled so with the pleasure of feeling it.

VOL. I. 18

I do sincerely believe,' he said, ' that you
are the most innocent girl, the sweetest, truest
girl that ever lived. I wish I was a better
man, Eunice ; I wish I was good enough to be
worthy of you !'

To hear him speak of himself in that way
jarred on me. If such words had fallen from
any other man's lips, I should have been
afraid that he had done something, or thought
something, of which he had reason to feel
ashamed. With Philip this was impossible.

He was eager to walk on rapidly, and to
turn a corner in the path, before we could
be seen. ' I want to be alone with you,' he
said.

I looked back. We were too late ; Helena
and Miss Jillgall had nearly overtaken us.
My sister was on the point of speaking to
Philip, when she seemed to change her mind,
and only looked at him. Instead of looking
at her in return, he kept his eyes cast down,

and drew figures on the pathway with his
stick. I think Helena was out of temper ;
she suddenly turned my way. * Why didn't
you wait for me T she asked.

Philip took her up sharply. ' If Eunice
likes seeing the river better than waiting in
the street he said, ^ isn't she free to do as she
pleases ?'

Helena said nothing more ; Philip walked
on slowly by himself. Not knowing what to
make of it, I turned to Miss Jillgall.

Surely Philip can't have quarrelled with
Helena ?' I said.

Miss Jillgall answered in an odd oiF-hand
manner : ' Not he ! He is a great deal more
likely to have quarrelled with himself.'

'Why?'

Suppose you ask him why ?'

It was not to be thought of ; it would have
looked like prying into his thoughts. ' Selina !'
I said, ' there is something odd about you 



day. What is the matter ? I don't understand
you;

My poor dear, you will find yourself understanding
me before long.' I thought I saw
something like pity in her face when she said
that.

My poor dear ?' I repeated. ' What makes
you speak to me in that way?'

^ I don't know — I'm th^ed ; I'm an old fool
I'll go back to the house.'

Without another word, she left me. I
turned to look for Philip, and saw that my
sister had joined him while I had been speaking
to Miss Jillgall. It pleased me to find
that they were talking in a friendly way when
I joined them. A quarrel between Helena and
my husband that is to be — no, my husband
that shall be — would have been too distressing,
too unnatural I might almost call it.

Philip looked along the backward path, and
asked what had become of Miss Jillgall.

Have you any objection to follow her
example ?' he said to me, when I told him that
Selina had returned to the town. ' I don't
care for the banks of this river

Helena, who used to like the river at other
times, was as ready as Philip to leave it now.
I fancy they had both been kindly waiting to
change our walk, till I came to them, and they
could study my wishes too. Of course I was
ready to go where they pleased. I asked
Philip if there was anything he would like to
see, when we got into the streets again.

Clever Helena suggested what seemed to
be a strange amusement to offer to Philip.

Let's take him to the Guns' School she
said.

It appeared to be a matter of perfect indifference
to him ; he was, what they call,
ironical. * Oh, yes, of course. Deeply interesting!
deeply interesting!' He suddenly
broke into the wildest good spirits, and tucked

my hand under his arm with a gaiety which it
was impossible to resist. ' What a boy you
are!' Helena said, enjoying his delightful
hilarity as I did.

Eunice's diary.

On entering the schoolroom we lost our gaiety,
all in a moment. Something unpleasant had
evidently happened.

Two of the eldest girls were sitting together
in a corner, separated from the rest, and looking
most wickedly sulky. The teachers were
at the other end of the room, appearing to be
ill at ease. And there, standing in the midst
of them, with his face flushed and his eyes
angry — there was Papa ; sadly unlike his
gentle self in the days of his health and happiness.
On former occasions, when the exercise
of his authority was required in the school, his
forbearing temper always set things right.

When I saw him now, I thought of Avhat the
doctor had said of his health, on my way home
from the station.

Papa advanced to us the moment we showed
ourselves at the door.

He shook hands — cordially shook hands —
with Philip. It was delightful to see him,
delightful to hear him say : ' Pray don't
suppose, Mr. Dunboyne, that you are intruding
; remain with us by all means if you like.'
Then he spoke to Helena and to me, still
excited, still not like himself : 'You couldn't
have come here, my dears, at a time when
your presence was more urgently needed.'
He turned to the teachers. ' Tell my
daughters what has happened ; tell them,
why they see me here — shocked and distressed,
I don't deny it.'

We now heard that the two girls in disgrace
had broken the rules, and in such a manner as
to deserve severe punishment.

One of them had been discovered hiding a
novel in her desk. The other had misbehaved
herself more seriously still — she had gone to
the theatre. Instead of expressing any regret,
they had actually dared to complain of having
to learn Papa's improved catechism. They
had even accused him of treating them with
severity, because they were poor girls brought
up on charity. ' If we had been young ladies
they were audacious enough to say, 'more
indulgence would have been shown to us ; we
should have been allowed to read stories and
to see plays.'

All this time I had been asking myself what
Papa meant, when he told us we could not
have come to the schoolroom at a better time.
His meaning now appeared. When he spoke
to the offending girls, he pointed to Helena
and to me.

Here are my daughters,' he said. ' You
will not deny that they are young ladies.

Now listen. They shall tell you themselves
whether my rules make any difference between
them and you. Helena ! Eunice ! do I allow
you to read novels ? do I allow you to go to
the play ?'

We said, ' No ' — and hoped it was over. But
he had not done yet. He turned to Helena.

Answer some of the questions he went on,
*from my Manual of Christian Obligation,
which the girls call my catechism.' He asked
one of the questions : ' If you are told to do
unto others as you would they should do unto
you, and if you find a difficulty in obeying
that Divine Precept, what does your duty
require ?'

It is my belief that Helena has the materials
in her for making another Joan of Arc. She
rose, and answered without the slightest sign
of timidity : ^ My duty requires me to go to
the minister, and to seek for advice and encouragement.'


And if these fail ?'

Then I am to remember that my pastor is
my friend. He claims no priestly authority
or priestly infallibility. He is my fellow-christian
who loves me. He will tell me how
he has himself failed ; how he has struggled
against himself ; and what a blessed reward
has followed his victory — a purified heart, a
peaceful mind.'

There Papa released my sister, after she had
only repeated two out of all the answers in
Christian Obligation, which we first began to
learn when we were children. He then addressed
himself again to the girls.

Is what you have just heard a part of my
catechism ? Has my daughter been excused
from repeating it because she is a young lady?
Where is the difference between the religious
education which is given to my own child,
and that given to you ?'

The wretched girls still sat silent and obstinate,

with their heads down. I tremble
again as I write of what happened next. Papa
fixed his eyes on me. He said, out loud:
Eunice!' — and waited for me to rise and
answer, as my sister had done.

It was entirely beyond my power to get on
my feet.

Philip had (innocently, I am sure) discouraged
me ; I saw displeasure, I saw contempt
in his face. There was a dead silence
in the room. Everybody looked at me. My
heart beat furiously, my hands turned cold,
the questions and answers in Christian Obligation
all left my memory together. I looked
imploringly at Papa.

For the first time in his life, he was hard on
me. His eyes were as angry as ever ; they
showed me no mercy. Oh, what had come tome
? what evil spirit possessed me ? I felt
resentment ; horrid, undutiful resentment, at
being treated in this cruel way. My fists

clenched themselves in my lap, my face felt as
hot as fire. Instead of asking my father to
excuse me, I said : * I can't do it.' He was
astounded, as well he might be. I went on
from bad to worse. I said : ^ I won't do it.'

He stooped over me ; he whispered : ' I am
going to ask you something ; I insist on your
answering, Yes or No.' He raised his voice,
and drew himself back so that they could all
see me.

Have you been taught like your sister T
he asked. ' Has the catechism that has been
her religious lesson, for all her life, been your
religious lesson, for all your life, too ?'

I said : ' Yes ' — and I was in such a rage
that I said it out loud. If Philip had handed
me his cane, and had advised me to give the
young hussies who were answerable for this
dreadful state of things a good beating, I believe
I should have done it. Papa turned his
back on me, and offered the girls a last chance:

Do-you feel sorry for what you have done ?
Do you ask to be forgiven T

Neither the one nor the other answered him.
He called across the room to the teachers :
^ Those two pupils are expelled the school.'

Both the women looked horrified. The
elder of the two approached him, and tried to
plead for a milder sentence. He answered in
one stern word: 'Silence!' — and left the
schoolroom, without even a passing bow to
Philip. And this, after he had cordially
shaken hands with my poor dear, not half an
hour before.

I ouirht to have made affectionate allowance
for his nervous miseries ; I ought to have run
after him, and begged his pardon. There
must be something wrong, I am afraid, in
girls loving anybody but their fathers. \Yhen
Helena led the way out by another door, I
ran after Philip ; and I asked Mm to forgive
me.

I don't know what I said ; it was all confusion.
The fear of having forfeited his fondness
must, I suppose, have shaken my mind.
I remember entreating Helena to say a kind
word for me. She was so clever, she had
behaved so well, she had deserved that Philip
should listen to her. ' Oh I cried out to
him desperately, ' what must you think of
me ?'

I will tell you what I think of you,' he
said. ' It is your father who is in fault,
Eunice — not you. Nothing could have been
in worse taste than his management of that
trumpery affair in the schoolroom ; it was a
complete mistake from beginning to end.
Make your mind easy ; I don't blame You.'

Are you, really and truly, as fond of me as
ever ?'

Yes, to be sure !'

Helena seemed to be hardly as much interested
in this happy ending of my anxieties

as I might have anticipated. She walked on
by herself. Perhaps she was thinking of poor
Papa's strange outbreak of excitement, and
grieving over it.

We had only a little way to walk, before
we passed the door of Philip's hotel. He had
not yet received the expected letter from his
father — the cruel letter which might recall him
to Ireland. It was then the hour of delivery
by our second post ; he went to look at the
letter-rack in the hall. Helena saw that I
was anxious. She was as kind again as ever ;
she consented to wait with me for Philip, at
the door.

He came out to us with an open letter in his
hand.

'From my father, at last,' he said — and
gave me the letter to read. It only contained
these few lines :

Do not be alarmed, my dear boy, at the
change for the worse in my handwriting. I

am suffering for my devotion to the studious
habits of a lifetime : my right hand is attacked
by the malady called Writer's Cramp. The
doctor here can do nothing He tells me of
some foreign woman, mentioned in his newspaper,
who cures nervous derangements of all
kinds by hand-rubbing, and who is coming to
London. When you next hear from me, I
may be in London too.' — There the letter
ended.

Of course I knew who the foreign woman,
mentioned in the newspaper, was.

But what does Miss Illo-airs friend matter
to me ? The one important thing is, that
Philip has not been called back to Ireland.
Here is a fortunate circumstance, which perhaps
means more good luck. I may be Mrs.
Philip Dunboyne before the year is out.

END OF VOL. I.

BILLING *. SONS, PRINTERS, GJILOFOno.

'^'^£jS:

vv::^'':^

^rU-^^L<:im

i^s^wV^

JJ^:

yMu'^

5^$5Ww^w.,H.>-^^v^:-^.n^^^.^

^y.UU-'^^W ii

i^^^'^i

.v«ij-'«W»^,

.\v"V'.Y

'U^^s^^*:.^.^

vr^^jvvy^v^^;

•VV ,:v-y

;.^,^Vvv

.^.v'^.w .^;

"^^^-:,.^:^jvy^-

»m-i^%^k^::^'"'^'

''i'?y-i-\f '■>*>**■ ■f^-f^>'*'f

OF THE

U N Diversity

or ILLINOIS


Ce9€e


V.2

J

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was borrowed on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation and undermining of books ore reasons
for disciplinary action and moy result in dismissal from
the University.
TO RENEW CALL Telephone CENTER, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

When renewing by phone, write new due date below
previous due date. L162

VOL. II.

Agatha Page. By Isaac Henderson. 2 vols.
This Mortal Coil. By Grant Allen. 3 vols.
The Blackhall Ghosts. By Sarah Tatler.

3 vols.

A Strange Manuscript Found In a Copper

Cylinder. By Gilbert Gaul, i vol.
Herr Paulus. By Walter Besant. i vol.
The Man-hunter. By Dick Donovan, i vol.

The Spectre of the Camera. By Julian
Hawthorne, i vol.

Players and Playwrights I have Known.
By John Coleman. 2 vols.

London: CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY.

BY

WILKIE COLLINS

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. IL

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[All rights 7-esi:-r:'ed\

discontents

OF VOL. II.

(Sfconii :}3crioli continued).

THE GIRLS AND THE JOURNALS.

CHAPTER Image

XXV. HELENA'S DIARY . - . - 3

Xxvi HELENA'S DIARY - - - - 12

XXVII. EUMCK's DIARY ; - - - - 23

XXVIII. HELENA'S DIARY - - - - 39
XXIX. HELENA'S Dun' - - - - 47

XXX. EUNICE'S DIARY - - - - 57

XXXI. EUNICE'S DIARY - - - - 7C)

cSifOnb JJfrioti continued).

EVENTS IN THE FAMILY, RELATED BY THE GOVERNOR.

XXXII. THE Middle-aged LADY - - - 98

XXXIII. THE minister's MISFORTUNE - - 107

XXXIV. THE LIVELY OLD MAID - - - 123
XXXV. THE FUTURE LOOKS GLOOMY - - - 133

XXXVI. THE WANDERING Mind - - - 147

CHAPTER PAGE

XXXVII. THE SHAMELESS SISTER - - - 161

XXXVIII. THE girls' AGES . - 186

XXXIX. THE ADOPTED CHILD . - - - 202

XL. THE BRUISED HEART - - - - 208

XLI. THE WHISPERING VOICE - - - 225

XLII. THE QUAINT PHILOSOPHER - - - 238

XLIII. THE MASTERFUL Masses - - 251

<Scfonii Jjcriob continued).
THE GIRLS AND THE JOURNALS.

VOL. II. 19

Helena's diary.

They all notice at home that I am looking
worn and hansard. That hideous old maid,
]\[iss Jillgall, had her malicious welcome ready
for me when we met at breakfast this morning
: ' Dear Helena, what has become of your
beauty ? One would think you had left it in
Your room !' Poor deluded Eunice showed
her sisterly sympathy : 'Don't joke about it,
Selina : can't you sec that Helena is ill ?'

I have been ill ; ill of my own wickedness.

But the recovery of my tranquillity will
bring with it the recovery of my good looks,
sly fatal passion for Philip promises to be

19—2

the utter destruction of everything that is good
in me. AVell ! what is good in me may not
be worth keeping. There is a fate in these
things. If I am destined to rob Eunice of
the one dear object of her love and hope — how
can I resist ? The one kind thing I can dois
to keep her in ignorance of what is coming,
by acts of affectionate deceit.

Besides, if she suffers, I suffer too. In the
length and breadth of England, I doubt if
there is a much more wicked young woman
to be found than myself. Is it nothing to feel
that, and to endure it as I do ?

Upon my word, there is no excuse for me !

Is this sheer impudence ? Xo ; it is the
bent of my nature. I have a tendency to
self-examination, accompanied by one merit —
I don't spare myself.

There are excuses for Eunice. She lives ina
fools' paradise ; and she sees in her lover a
radiant creature, shining in the halo thrown

over him by her own self-delusion. Nothing
of this sort is to be said for me. I see Philip
as he is. sly penetration looks into the lowest
depths of his character — when I am not in his
company. There seems to be a foundation of
good, somewhere in his nature. He despises
and hates himself (he has confessed it to me),
when Eunice is with him — still believing in
her false sweetheart. But how long do these
better influences Last ? I have only to show
myself, in my sister's absence, and Philip is
mine body and soul. His vanity and his
weakness take possession of him the moment
he sees my face. He is one of those men —
even in my little experience I have met with
them — who are born to be led Ijy women. If
Eunice had possessed my strength of character,
he would have been true to her for life.

Ought I not, in justice to myself, to have
lifted m}^ heart high above the rcacii of such
a creature as this ? Certainly I ought ! I

know it, I feel it. And yet, there is some
fascination in loving him which I am absolutely
unable to resist.

What, I ask myself, has fed the new flame
which is burning in me ? Did it begin with
gratified pride ? I might well feel proud
when I found myself admired by a man of his
beauty, set off by such manners and such
accomplishments as his. Or, has the growth
of this masterful feeling been encouraged by
the envy and jealousy stirred in me, when I
found Eunice (my inferior in every respect)
distinguished by the devotion of a handsome
lover, and having' a brilliant marriage in view
while I was left neglected, with no prospect
of changing my title from Miss to Mrs. ?
Vain inquiries ! My wicked heart seems to
have secrets of its own, and to keep them a
mystery to me.

What has become of my excellent education ?

I don't care to inquire ; I have got beyond

the reach of u'(30(l books and righteous examples.
Among my other bLameable actions
there may now be reckoned disobedience to
my father. I have been reading novels in
secret.

At first I tried some of the famous English
works, published at a price within the reach
of small purses. ^ very well written, no doubt
but with one unpardonable drawback, sofar
as I am concerned. Our celebrated native
authors address themselves to good people, or
to penitent people who want to be made good ;
not to wicked readers like me.

Arriving at this conclusion, I tried another
experiment. In a small bookseller's shop I
discovered some cheap translations of French
novels. Here, I found what I wanted —
sympathy with sin. Here, there was opened
to me a new world inhabited entirely' by unrepentant
people ; the magnificent women
diabolically beautiful ; the satanic men dead

to every sense of virtue, and alive — perhaps
rather dirtily alive — to the splendid fascinations
of crime. I know now that Love is above
everything but itself. Love is the one law
that we are all bound to obey. How deep !
how consoling ! how admirably true ! The
novelists of England have reason indeed to
hide their heads before the novelists of France.
All that I have felt, and have written here, is
inspired by these wonderful authors.

I have relieved my mind, and may now
return to the business of my diary — the record
of domestic events.

An overwhelming disappointment has fallen
on Eunice. Our dinner-party has been put
off.

The state of father's health is answerable
for this chancre in our arrangements. That
wretched scene at the school, complicated by
my sister's undutiful behaviour at the tune,

SO seriously excited him that he passed a
sleepless night, and kept his hedrooni throughout
the day. Eunice's total want of discretion
added, no doubt, to his sufferings : she rudely
intruded on him to express her regret and to
ask his pardon. Having carried her point,
she was at leisure to come to me, and to ask
(how amazingly simple of her I) what she and
l^liilip were to do next.

We had arranged it all so nicely,' the
poor wretch began. ' Philip was to have been
so clever and agreeable at dinner, and was to
have chosen his time so very discreetly, that
Papa would have been ready to listen to anything
he said. Oh, we should have succeeded ;
I haven't a doubt of it I Our only hope,
Helena, is in you. What are we to do now ?'

Wait,' I answered.

Wait ?' she repeated hotly. ' Is my heart
to be broken ? and, what is more cruel still,
is Philip to be disappointed? I expected

something more sensible, my decir, from you.
AYhat possible reason can there be for waiting ?'

The reason — if I could only have mentioned
it — was beyond dispute. I wanted time to
quiet Philip's uneasy conscience, and to harden
his weak mind against outbursts of violence,
on Eunice's part, which would certainly exhibit
themselves when she found that she had
lost her lover, and lost him to me. In the
meanwhile, I had to produce my reason for
advising her to wait. It was easily done. I
reminded her of the irritable condition of our
father's nerves, and gave it as my opinion
that he would certainly say Xo, if she was
unwise enough to excite him on the subject
of Philip, in his present frame of mind.

These unanswerable considerations seemed
to produce the right effect on her. ' I suppose
you know best,' was all she said. And then
she left me.

I let her ^ro without feeling any distrust of

this act of submission on lier part ; it was
such a common experience, in my life, to find
my sister guiding herself by my advice. Jut
experience is not always to be trusted. Events
soon showed that I had failed to estimate
Eunice's resources of obstinacy and cunning
at their true value.

Half an hour later I heard the street door
closed, and looked out of the window. Miss
Jillo'all was leaving' the house : no one was
with her. My dislike of this person led me
astray once more. I ought to have suspected
her of beinir bent on some mischievous errand,
and to have devised some means of putting my
suspicions to the test. I did nothing of the
kind. Tn the moment when I turned my head
away from the window, bliss Jillgall was a
person forgotten — and I was a person who
had made a serious mistake.

HELENA S DIARY

The event of to-day began with the deliver'
of a message summoning me to my father's
study. He had decided — too hastily, as I
feared — that he was sufficiently recovered to
resume his usual employments. I was writing
to his dictation, when we were interrupted.
Maria announced a visit from ]mr. Dunboyne.
Hitherto, Philip had been content to send
one of the servants of the hotel to make
inquiry after Mr. Gracedieu's health. Why
had he now called personally ? Noticing that
father seemed to be annoyed, I tried to make
an opportunity of receiving PhiHp myself.

^ Let me see him,' I suggested ; ' I can easily
say you are engaged.'

Avery unwillingly , as it was easy to see. my
father declined to allow this. ' mr. Dun-boyne's
visit pays me a compliment he said ;
and I must receive him.' I made a show of
leaving the room, and was called back to my
chair. * This is not a private interview,
Helena ; stay where you are.'

Philip came in — handsomer than ever,
beautifully dressed — and paid his respects to
my father with his customary grace. Pie was
too well bred to allow any visible signs of
embarrassment to escape him. But when he
shook hands with me, I felt a little trembling
in his fingers, through the delicate gloves
which fitted him like a second skin. AVas it
the true object of his visit to try the experiment
designed by Eunice and himself, and
deferred by the postponement of our dinner-party
? Impossible surely that my sister

could have practised on his weakness, and
persuaded him to return to his first love ! I
waited, in breathless interest, for his next
words. They were not worth listening to.
Oh, the poor commonplace creature !

I am glad, Mr. Gracedieu, to see that you
are well enough to be in your study again he
said. The writing materials on the table
attracted his attention. ' Am I one of the
idle people,' he asked, with his charming
smile, ' who are always interrupting useful
employment ?'

He spoke to my father, and he was answered
by my father. Xot once had he addressed a
word to me — no, not even when we shook
hands. I was angry enough to force him into
taking some notice of me, and to make an
attempt to confuse him at the same time.

Have you seen my sister ?' I asked.

'No.'

It was the shortest reply that he could

choose. Having flung it at nie, be still persisted
in looking at my flxtlier and speaking to
my father : ' Do you think of trying change
of air, Mr. Gracedieu, when }'ou feel strong
enough to travel ?'

My duties keep me here,' father answered ;
and I cannot honestly say that I enjoy travelling.
I dislike manners and customs that are
strange to me : I don't find that hotels reward
me for giving up the comforts of my own
house. How do you find the hotel here ?'

I submit to the hotel, sir. They are sad
savages in the kitchen ; they put mushroom
ketchup into their soup, and mustard and
cayenne pepper into their salads. I am half
starved at dinner-time, but I don't complain.'

Every word he said was an offence to me.
Auth or without reason, I attacked him again.

I have heard you acknowledge that the
landlord and landlady are very obliging people,'
I said. ' ^Vhy don't you ask them to let you

make your own soup and mix your own
salad ?'

I wondered whether I should succeed in
attracting his notice, after this. Even in these
private pages, my self-esteem finds it hard to
confess what happened. I succeeded in reminding
Philip that he had his reasons for
requesting me to leave the room.

Will you excuse me, Miss Helena,' he said,
*if I ask leave to speak to mr. Gracedieu in
private ?'

The rii2:ht things for me to do was, let me
hope, the thing that I did. I rose, and waited
to see if my father would interfere. He looked
at Philip with suspicion in his face, as well as
surprise. ' May I ask,' he said coldly, ' what
is the object of the interview ?'

Certainly,' Philip answered, ' when we are
alone.' This cool reply placed my father
between two alternatives ; he must either give
way, or be guilty of an act of rudeness to a

guest in bis own house. The choice reserved
for me was narrower still — I had to decide
between being' toil to u'o, or cfoino' of u\\ own
accord. Of course, I left them together.

The door which communicated with the
next room was pulled to, but not closed. On
the other side of it, I found Eunice.

Listening!' I said, in a whisper.

Yes,' she whispered back. ' You listen,
tool'

I was so indignant with Philip, and so
seriously interested in what was going on in
the study, that I yielded to temptation.
We both degraded ourselves. AVe both
listened.

Eunice's base lover spoke first. Judging
by the change in his voice, he must have seen
something mv whither's face that daunted him.
Eunice heard it too. ' He's getting nervous,'
she whispered ; ^ he'll forget to say the right
thin": at the riizht time.'

VOL. II. '20

mr. Gracedieii,' Philip began, ' I wish to
speak to YOU '

Father interrupted him : ' AVe are alone
now, mr. Dunboyne. I want to know why
YOU consult me in private.'

I am anxious to consult you, sir, on a
subject '

On what subject ? Any religious difficulty
r

'Xo/

Anything I can do for you in the town ?'

Xot at all. If you will only allow
me '

I am still waiting, sir, to know what it is
about.'

Philip's Voice suddenly became an angry
voice. ^ Once for all, Mr. Gracedieu,' he said,
will you let me speak ? It's about your
daughter '

Xo more of it, mr. Dunboyne I' (My
father was now as loud as Philip.) ' I don't

desire to hold a private conversation with you
on the subject of mv daughter.'

If you ]ia\'e any personal objection to me,
sir, be so good as to state it ]thinly.'

You have no right to ask me to do that.'

You refuse to do it?'

Positively.'

You are not very civil, Mr. Gracedieu.'

If I speak without ceremony, Mr. Dun-boyne,
you have yourself to thank for it.'

Philip replied to this in a tone of savage
irony. ' You are a minister of religion, and
you are an old man. Two privileges — and
you presume on them both. Good-morning.'

I drew back into a corner, just in time to
escape discovery in the character of a listener.
Eunice never moved. When Philip dashed
into the room, banuinof the door after him. she
threw herself impulsively on his breast : 'Oh.
Philij ! Philij) I what have you done? Why'
didn't you keep your temper?'

20—2

Did you hear what your father said to me T
he asked.

Yes, dear ; but you ought to have controlled
yourself — you ought, indeed, for my
sake.'

Her arms were still round him. It struck
me that he felt her influence. ' If you wish
me to recover myself,' he said gently, ' you
had better let me go.'

Oh, how cruel, Philip, to leave me when I
am so wretched ! Why do you want to go ?'

You told me just now what I ought to do,'
he answered, still restraining himself. ' If I
am to get the better of my temper, I must be
left alone.'

I never said anything about your temper,
dnrlinj]:.'

Didn't you tell me to control myself ?'

Oh, yes ! Go back to Papa, and beg him
to forgive you.'

I'll see him damned first !'

If ever a stupid girl deserved siicli an
answer as this, the girl was my sister. I had
hitherto (with some difficulty) refrained from
interfering'. lUit Alien Eunice tried to follow
Philip out of the house, I could hesitate no
longer: I held her back. ' You fool,' I said ;
haven't you made mischief enough already ?'

AMiat am I to do?' she burst out helplessly.


Do what I told you to do yesterday —
wait.'

Before she could reply, or I could say anything
more, the door that led to the landing-was
opened softly and slyly, and bliss Jillgall
peeped in. Eunice instantly left me. and ran
to the meddling old maid. They whispered
to each other. bliss Jillgall's skinny arm
encircled my sister's waist ; they disappeared
together.

I was only too glad to get rid of them both,
and to take the opportunity of writing to

Philip I insisted on an explanation of his
conduct while I was in the study — to be given
within an hour's time, at a place which I
appointed. ' You are not to attempt to justify
yourself in waiting, ' I added in conclusion.
Let your reply merely inform me if you can
keep the appointment. The rest, wien we
meet.'

Maria took the letter to the hotel, with
instructions to wait.

Philip's reply reached me without delay.
It pledged him to justify himself as I had
desired, and to keep the appointment. My
owen belief is that the event of to-day will
decide his future and mine.

EUNICE S Diary.

Indeed, I am a most unfortunate creature ;
everything turns out badly with me. ]\Iy
good true friend, my dear Selina, has become
the object of a hateful doubt in my secret
mind. I am afraid she is keeping something
from me.

Talking with her about my troubles, I
heard for the first time that she had written
again to sirs. Tenbruggen. The object of her
letter was to tell her friend of my engagement
to young Mr. Dunboyne. I asked her why
she had done this. The answer informed me
that there was no knowing, in the present

state of my affairs, how soon I might not
want the help of a clever woman. I ought, I
suppose, to have been satisfied with this. But
there seemed to be something not fully explained
yet.

Then again, after telling Selina what 1
heard in the study, and how roughly Philip
had spoken to me afterwards, T asked her what
she thought of it. She made an incomprehensible
reply : ' My sweet child, I mustn't
think of it — I am too fond of you.'

It was impossible to make her explain what
this meant. She began to talk of Philip ;
assuring me (which was quite needless) that
she had done her best to fortify and encourage
him, before he called on Papa. When I asked
her to help me in another way — that is to say,
when I wanted to find out where Philip was
at that moment — she had no advice to drive
me. I told her that I should not enjoy a
moment's ease of inind until I and my dear

one were reconciled. She only shook her head,
and declared that she was sorry for me. When
I hit on the idea of ringing for Maria, this
little woman, so bright and quick and eager to
help me at other times, said : ' I leave it to
you, dear,' and turned to the piano (close to
which I was sitting), and played softly and
badly stupid little tunes.

Maria, did you open the door for Mr.
Dunboyne when he went away just now ?'

Xo, Miss.'

Nothing: but ill-luck for me ! If I had
been left to my own devices, I should now
have let the housemaid go. But Selina contrived
to give me a hint, on a strange plan
of her own. Still at the piano, she began to
confuse talking to herself with pLaying to
herself The notes ^A'cnt tinder tinkle — and
the tongue mixed up words with the notes in
this way : ' Perhaps they have been talking in
the kitchen about Philip ?'

The suo;o'estion was not lost on me. I said
to ]varia — who was standing' at the other end
of the room, near the door — ' Did you happen
to hear which way Mr. Dunboyne went when
he left us.' - " •

I know where he was, Miss, half an hour
ago.'

Where was he ?'
At the hotel'

Selina went on with her hints in the same
way as before. ' How does she know — ah,
how does she know ?' was the vocal part of the
performance this time. sly clever inquiries
followed the vocal part as before :

How do you know that Mr. Dunboyne
was at the hotel ?'

1 was sent there With a letter for him, and
waited for the answer.'

There was no suggestion required this time.
The one possible question was : ' Who sent
you?'

Maria replied, after first reserving a condition
: ' You won't tell upon me, Miss?'

I promised not to tell. Selina suddenly left
off playing.

Well,' I repeated, ' who sent you?'

Miss Helena.'

Selina looked round at me. Her little eyes
seemed to have suddenly become big, they
stared me so strangely in the face. I don't
know whether she was in a state of fright
or of wonder. As for myself, I simply lost
the use of my tongue. Maria, having no
more questions to answer, discreetly left us
together.

Why should Helena write to Philip at all
and especially without mentioning it to me?
Here was a riddle which was more than I
could guess. I asked Selina to help me. She
might at least have tried, I thought ; but she
looked uneasy, and made excuses.

I said : ' Suppose I go to Helena, and ask

her why she wrote to Philip ?' And Selina
said : ' Suppose you do, dear.'

I rang for Maria once more : ' Do you
know where my sister is ?'

Just gone out, ]\[iss.'

There Alas no help for it but to wait till she
came back, and to get through the time in the
interval as I best mio'ht. But for one circum



stance, I might not have known what to do.
The truth is, there was a feeling of shame in
me when I remembered having listened at the
study door. Curious notions come into one's
head — one doesn't know how or why. It
struck me that I might make a kind of atonement
for having been mean enough to listen,
if I went to Papa, and offered to keep him
company in his solitude. If we fell into
pleasant talk, I had a sly idea of my OAvn — I
meant to put in a good word for poor Philip.

When I confided my design to Selina, she
shut up the piano and ran across the room to

rae. But somehow she was not like her old
self ao^ain, vet.

You good little soul, you are always right.
Look at me again, Euneece. Are you beginning
to doubt me ? Oh, my darling, don't
do that! It isn't using me fairly. I can't
bear it — I can't bear it !'

I took her hand ; I was on the point of
speaking to her with the kindness she deserved
from me. On a sudden she snatched her hand
away, and ran back to the piano. AVhen she
was seated on the music-stool, her face was
hidden from me. At that moment she broke
into a strange cry — it beu'an like a laua'h, and
it ended like a sob.

'Go away to Papa! Don't mind me — I'm
a creature of impulse — ha ! ha ! ha ! a little
hysterical — the state of the weather — I get rid
of these weaknesses, my dear, by singing to
myself. I have a favourite song : " My heart
is light, my will is free." — Go away ! oh, for
God's sake, go away!'

I had heard of hysterics, of course ; knowing
nothing about them, however, by my own
experience. What could have happened to
agitate her in this extraordinary manner?

Had Helena's letter anvthino- to do with
it ? Was my sister indignant With Philip
for swearing in my presence ; and had she
written him an angry letter, in her zeal on my
behalf ? But Selina could not possibly have
seen the letter — and Helena (who is often hard
on me when I do stupid things) showed little
indulgence for me, when I was so unfortunate
as to irritate Philip. I gave up the hopeless
attempt to get at the truth by guessing, and
went away to forget my troubles, if I could,
in my father's society.

After knocking; twice at the door of the
study, and receiving no reply, I ventured to
look in.

The sofa in this room stood opposite the
door. Papa was resting on it, but not in

comfort. There were twitching; movements in
his feet, and he shifted his arms this way and
that as if no restful posture could be found
for them. But what frightened me was this.
His eyes, staring straight at the door by which
I had gone in, had an inquiring expression, as
if he actually did not know me ! I stood
midway between the door and the sofa, doubtful
about D'oino' nearer to him.

He said : ' AVho is it ?' This to me — to
his own daughter. He said : ' What do you
want ?'

I really could not bear it. I went up to
him. I said : ' Papa, have you forgotten
Eunice ?'

My name seemed (if one may say such a
thing) to bring him to himself again. He sat
up on the sofa — and laughed as he answered
me.

My dear chill, what delusion has got into
that pretty little head of yours ? Fancy lier

thinking that I had forgotten my OAvn
daughter ! I was lost in thought, Eunice.
For the moment, I was what they call an
absent man. Did I ever tell you the story
of the absent man ? He went to call upon
some acquaintance of his ; and when the
servant said, •' AYhat name, sir ?" he couldn't
answer. He was obliged to confess that he
had forgotten his own name. The servant
said, " That's very strange." The absent man
at once recovered himself '* That's it !" he said :
'' my name is Strange." Droll, isn't it ? If I
had been calling on a friend to-day, I dare say
might have forgotten my name, too. ^luch
to til ink of, Eunice — too much to think of

Leaving the sofa with a sigh, as if he was
tired of it, he began walking up and down.
He seemed to be still in good spirits. * AVell,
mv dear,' he said, ' what can I do for you ?'

I came here, Papa, to see if there was anything
I could do for You.'

He looked at some sheets of paper, striini^'
together, and laid on the table. They were
covered with writing (from his dictation) in
my sister's hand. ' I ought to get on with
my work,' he said. ' Where is Helena ?'

I told him that she had gone out, and
begged leave to try what I could do to supply
her place.

The request seemed to please him ; but he
wanted time to think. I waited ; noticing
that his face grew gradually worried and
anxious. There came a vacant look into his
eyes which it grieved me to see ; he appeared
to have quite lost himself again. ' Read
the last page,' he said, pointing to the manuscript
on the table ; ' I don't remember where
I left off.'

I turned to the last page. As well as I
could tell J it related to some publication,
which he Alas recommending to religious
persons of our way of thinking.

VOL. II. 21

Before I had read half-wav tliroii^'h it, lie
began to dictate, speaking so rapidly that my
]pen was not alway's able to follow him. My
handwriting is as bad as bad can be when
I am hurried. To make matters worse still, I
was confused. AVhat he was now savings:
seemed to have nothing to do with what I
had been reading.

Let me try if I can call to mind the
substance of it.

He began in the most strangely sudden way
by asking : ' Why should there be any fear of
discovery, when every possible care had been
taken to prevent it ? The danger from unexpected
events was far more disquieting. A
man might find himself bound in honour to
disclose what it had been the chief anxiety of
his life to conceal. For example, could he let
an innocent person be the victim of deliberate
suppression of the truth — no matter how
justifiable that suppression might appear to

be ? On the other hand, dreadful consequences
mio'ht follow an honourable confession.
There might be a cruel sacrifice of
tender affection ; there might be a shocking
betrayal of innocent hope and trust.'

I remember those last words, just as he
dictated them, because he suddenly stopped
there ; looking, poor dear, distressed and
confused. He put his hand to his head, and
went back to the sofa.

I'm tired,' he said. ' Wait for me while I
rest.'

In a few minutes he fell asleep. It was a
deep repose that came to him now ; and,
though I don't think it lasted much longer
than half an hour, it produced a wonderful
change in him for the better when he woke.
He spoke quietly and kindly ; and, when he
returned to me at the table, and looked at
the page on which I had been writing, he
smiled.

21 2

Oh, my dear, what bad writing ! I declare
I can't read what I myself told you to write.
No ! no ! don't be down-hearted about it.
You are not used to writing from dictation ;
and I dare say I have been too quick for you.'
He kissed me and encouraged me. ' You
know how fond I am of my little girl,' he
said ; ' I am afraid I like my Eunice just the
least in the world more than I like my Helena.
Ah, you are beginning to look a little happier

now !'

He had filled me with such confidence and
such pleasure that I could not help thinking
of my sweetheart. Oh dear, when shall I
learn to be distrustful of my own feelings?
The temptation to say a good word for Philip
quite mastered any little discretion that I
possessed.

I said to Papa : ' If you kncAv how to make
me happier than I have ever been in all my
life before, would you do it ?'

Of course I would.'

Then send for Philip, dear, and be a little
kinder to him, this time.'

His pale face turned red with anger ; he
pushed me away from him.

That man ao^ain !' he burst out. ' Am I
never to hear the last of him ? Go away,
Eunice. You are of no use here.' He took
up my unfortunate page of writing, and ridiculed
it with a bitter laugh. ' What is this
fit for ?' He crumpled it up in his hand, and
tossed it into the fire.

I ran out of the room in such a state of
mortification that I hardly knew what I was
about. If some hard-hearted person had come
to me with a cup of poison, and had said :
Eunice, you are not fit to live any longer ;
take this,' I do believe I should have taken it.
If I thought of anything, I thought of going
back to Selina. My ill luck still pursued me ;
she had disappeared. I looked about in a

helpless way, completely at a loss what to do
next — so stupefied, I may even say, that it
was some time before I noticed a little three-cornered
note on the table by which I was
standing. The note was addressed to me :

Ever-dearest Euneece,

I have tried to make myself useful to
you, and have failed. But how can I see the
sad sight of your wretchedness, and not feel
the impulse to try again ? I have gone to
the hotel to find Philip, and to bring him
back to you a penitent and faithful man.
Wait for me, and hope for great things. A
hundred thousand kisses to my sweet Euneece.

S. J.'

Wait for her, after reading that note ! How
could she expect it ? I had only to follow her,
and to find Philip. In another minute, I was
on my Avay to the hotel.

HELENA 8 DIARY.

Looking at the last entry in my Journal, I see
myself anticipating that the event of to-day
will decide Philip's future and mine. This
has proved prophetic. All further concealment
is now at an end.

Forced to it by fate, or helped to it by
chance, Eunice has made the discovery of her
lover's infidelity. ' In all human probability '
(as my father says in his sermons), we two
sisters are enemies for life.

I am not suspected, as Eunice is, of making
appointments with a sweet] heart. So I am free

to go out alone, and to go where I please.
Philip and I were punctual to our appointment
this afternoon.

Our place of meeting was in a secluded
corner of the town park. We found a rustic
seat in our retirement, set up (one would suppose)
as a concession to the taste of visitors
who are fond of solitude. The view in front
of us was bounded by the park wall and railings,
and our seat was prettily approached on
one side by a plantation of young trees. Xo
entrance-gate was near ; no carriage road
crossed the grass. A more safe and more
solitary nook for conversation, between two
persons desiring to be alone, it would be hard
to find in most public parks. Lovers are said
to know it well, and to be especially fond of it
towards evening. "We were there in broad
daylight, and we had the seat to ourselves.

My memory of what passed between us is,
in some degree, disturbed by the formidable

interruption which brought our talk to an
end.

But ainoncr other thiniifs, I remember that I
showed him no mercy at the outset. At one
time I was indignant ; at another I was scornful
I declared, in regard to my object in
meeting him, that I had changed my mind,
and had decided to shorten a disagreeable
interview by waiving my right to an explanation,
and bidding him farewell. Eunice, as I
pointed out, had the first claim to him ; Eunice
was much more likely to suit him, as a companion
for life, than I was. 'In short,' I said,
in conclusion, ' my inclination for once takes
sides with my duty, and leaves my sister in
undisturbed possession of young Mr. Dun-boyne.'
AVith this satirical explanation, I rose
to say good-bye.

I had merely intended to irritate him. lie
showed a superiority to anger for which I was
not prepared.

Be SO kind as to sit down aiz'ain/ he said
quietly.

He took my letter from his pocket, and
pointed to that part of it which alluded to his
conduct, when we had met in my father's
study.

You have offered me the opportunity of
saying a word in my own defence,' covent on.
I prize that privilege far too highly to consent
to your withdrawing' it, merely because you
have changed your mind. Let me at least tell
you what my errand was, when I called on
your father. Loving you, and you only, I
had forced myself to make a last effort to be
true to your sister. Remember that, Helena,
and then say — is it wonderful if I was beside
myself, when I found You in the study?'

AVhen you tell me you were beside yourself
I said, • do you mean, ashamed of yourself?'


That touched him. • I mean nothing of the

kind,' he burst out. ' After the hell on earth
in which I have been Using between you two
sisters, a man hasn't virtue enough left in him
to be ashamed. He's half mad — that's what he
is. Look at my position ! I had made up my
mind never to see you again ; I had made up
my mind (if I married Eunice) to rid myself
of my own miserable life when I could endure
it no longer. In that state of feeling, when
my sense of duty depended on my speaking
with ]mr. Gracedieu alone, whose was the first
face 1 saw when I entered the room ? If I had
dared to look at you, or to speak to 3'ou, what
do you think Avould have become of my
resolution to sacrifice myself?'

AVhat has become of it now ?' I asked.

Tell me first if I am forgiven,' he said —
• and you shall know.'

Do you deserve to be forgiven ?'

It has been discovered by wiser heads than
mine that weak people are always in extremes.

So far, I had seen Philip in the vain and violent
extreme. He now shifted suddenly to the
sad and submissive extreme. When I asked
him if he deserved to be forgiven, he made the
humblest of all replies — he sighed and said
nothing.

If I did my duty to my sister,' I reminded
him, ' I should refuse to forgive you, and send
you back to Eunice

Your father's language and your father's
conduct,' he answered, ' have released me from
that entanglement. I can never go back to
Eunice. If you refuse to forgive me, neither
you nor she will see anything more of Philip
Dunboyne ; I promise you that. Are you
satisfied now ?'

After holding out against him resolutely, I
felt myself beginning to yield. AVhen a man
has once taken their fancy, what helplessly
weak creatures women are ! I saw through
his vacillating weakness — and yet I trusted

him, with both eyes open. My looking-glass
is opposite to me while I write. It shows mea
contemptible Helena. I lied, and said I was
satisfied — to please Idea,

Am I forgiven T he asked.

It is absurd to put it on record. Of course
I for "rave him. What a o-ood Christian I am,
after all !

He took my willing hand. * My lovely
darlings,' he said, * our marriage rests with you.
Whether your father approves of it or not, say
the word ; claim me, and I am yours for life.'

I must have been infatuated by his voice
and his look ; my heart must have been
burning under the pressure of his hand on
mine. Was it my modesty or my self-control
that deserted me ? I let him take me in his
arms. Ao^ain, and a^^ain, and attain I kissed
him. We were deaf to what we ought to have
heard; we were blind to Avhat we ought to
have seen. Before we were conscious of a

movement among' the trees, we were discoverers.
sly sister flew at me like a wild animal. Her
furious hands fastened themselves on my
throat. Philip started to his feet. When he
touched her, in the act of forcing her back
from me. Eunice's raoino- strength became
utter weakness in an instant. Her arms fell
helpless at her sides — her head drooped — she
looked at him in a silence which was dreadful,
at such a moment as that. He shrank from
the unendurable reproach in those tearless
eyes. Meanly, he turned away from her.
]\Ieanlv, I followed him. Looking: back for
an instant. I saw her step forward ; perhaps
to stop him, perhaps to speak to him. The
effort was too much for her strength ; she
staggered back against the trunk of a tree.
Like strangers, walking separate one from the
other, we left her to her companion — the
hideous traitress who was my enemy and her
friend.

Helena's diary.

Ox reaching the street Which led to Philip's
hotel, we spoke to each other for the first
time.

What are we to do ?' I said.

Leave this place,' he answered.

Together ?' I asked.

Yes.'

To leave us (for awhile), after what had
happened, might he the wisest thing which
a man, in Philip's critical position, could do.
Put if I went with him — unprovided as I was
with an' friend of my own sex, whose
character and presence might sanction the step)

I had taken — I should be lost beyond redemption.
Is any man that ever lived worth that
sacrifice ? I thought of my father's house
closed to me, and of our friends ashamed of
me. I have owned, in some earlier part of my
Journal, that I am not very patient under
domestic cares. But the possibility of Eunice
being appointed housekeeper, with my power,
in my place, was more than I could calmly
contemplate. ' Xo,' I said to PhiHp. ' Your
absence, at such a time as this, may help us
both ; but, come what may of it, I must
remain at home.'

He yielded, without an attempt to make me
alter my mind. There was a sullen submission
in his manner which it was not pleasant to
see. AVas he desiring already of himself and
of me? Had Eunice aroused the watchful
demons of shame and remorse ?

Perhaps you are right,' he said gloomily.
Good-bye.'

My anxiety put the all-important question
to him without hesitation :

Is it goodbye for ever, Philip ?'

His reply instantly relieved me : ' God
forbid!'

But I wanted more : ^ You still love me ?' I
persisted.

More dearly than ever!'

And yet you leave me ?'

He turned pale. ' I leave you because I am
afraid.'

Afraid of what ?'

Afraid to face Eunice again.'

The only possible way out of our difficulty
that I could see, now occurred to me. ' Suppose
my sister can be prevailed on to give
you up ?' I suggested. ' Would you come
back to us in that case ?'

Certainly !'

And you would ask my father to consent

VOL. n.



On the day of my return, if you like.'

Suppose obstacles get in our way,' I said
' suppose time passes and tries your patience
will you still consider yourself engaged tome
r

Engaged to you,' he answered, ' in spite of
obstacles and in spite of time.'

And, while you are away from me,' I ventured
to add, ' we shall write to each other T

Go where I may,' he said, ' you shall
always hear from me.'

I could ask no more ; and he could concede
no more. The impression evidently left on
him by Eunice's terrible outbreak, was far
more serious than I had anticipated. I was
myself depressed and ill at ease. Xo expressions
of tenderness were exchanged between
us. There was something horrible in our
barren farewell. AVe merely clasped hands, at
parting. He went his way — and I went
mine.

There are some occasions when women set
an example of courage to men. I was ready
endure whatever might happen to me, when
I got home. AVhat a desperate wretch ! some
people might say, if they could look into this
diary.

Maria opened the door ; she told me that
my sister had already returned, accompanied
by Miss Jillgall. There had been apparently
some difference of opinion between them,
before they entered the house. Eunice had
attempted to go on to some other place ; and
Miss Jillgall had remonstrated. Maria had
heard her say : ' No, you would degrade yourself
— and, with that, she had led Eunice
indoors. I understood, of course, that my
sister had been prevented from following
Philip to the hotel. There was probably a
serious quarrel in store for me. I went straight
to the bedroom, expecting to find Eunice
there, and prepared to brave the storm that

22—2

might burst on me. There was a woman at
Eunice's end of the room, removing dresses
from the wardrobe. I could only see her
back, but it was impossible to mistake that
fissure — Miss Jillo^all.

She laid the dresses on Eunice's bed, without
taking the slightest notice of me. Insignificant
silence I pointed to the door. She
went on as coolly with her occupation as if the
room had been, not mine but hers ; I stepped
up to her, and spoke plainly.

^ You oblige me to remind you,' I said,
that you are not in your own room.' There,
I waited a little, and found that I had produced
no effect. ' With every disposition,'
I resumed, ' to make allowance for the disagreeable
peculiarities of your character, I
cannot consent to overlook an act of intrusion,
committed by a Spy. Xow, do you understand
me ?'

She looked round her. ' I see no third

person here she said. ' May I ask if you
mean me ?'

I mean you.'

Will you be so good, Miss Helena, as to
explain yourself?'

Moderation of lano'uaofe would have been
thrown away on this woman. ' You followed
me to the park,' I said. 'It was you Who
found me with Mr. Dunboyne, and betrayed
me to my sister. You are a Spy, and you
know it. At this very moment you aren't
look me in the face.'

Her insolence forced its way out of her at
last. Let me record it — and repay it, when
the time comes.

(suite true,' she replied. ' If I ventured to
look you in the face, I am afraid I mii^ht forget
myself. I have always been brought up like
a lady, and I wish to show it even in the
company of such a wretch as you are. There
is not one word of truth in what you have

said of me. I went to the hotel to find Mr.
Dunboyne. Ah, you may sneer ! I haven't
got your good looks — and a vile use you have
made of them. My object was to recall that
base young man to his duty to my dear
charming injured Euneece. The hotel servant
told me that Mr. Dunboyne had gone out.
Oh, I had the means of persuasion in my
pocket ! The man directed me to the parkas
he had already directed mr. Dunboyne.
It was only when I had found the place, that
I heard some one behind me. Poor innocent
Euneece had followed me to the hotel, and had
got her directions, as I had got mine. God
knows how hard I tried to persuade her to go
back, and how horribly frightened I was — Xo !
I won't distress myself by saying a word more.
It would be too humiliating to let you see an
honest woman in tears. Your sister has a
spirit of her own, thank God I She won't
inhabit the same room with you ; she never

desires to see your false face again. I take
the poor soul's dresses and things away — and
as a religious person I wait, confidently wait,
for the judgment that Avill fall on you !'

She caught up the dresses all together ;
some of them were in her arms, some of them
fell on her shoulders, and one of them towered
over her head. Smothered in gowns, she
bounced out of the room like a walking
milliner's shop. I have to thank the wretched
old creature for a moment of genuine amusement,
at a time of devouring anxiety. The
meanest insect, they say, has its use in this
world — and why not Miss Jillgall ?

In half an hour more, an unexpected event
raised my spirits. I heard from Philip.

On his return to the hotel he had found a
telegram waiting for him. Mr. Dunbo}ne
the elder had arrived in London ; and Philip
had arranged to join his father by the next
train. He sent me the address, and begged

that I would write and tell him my news from
home by the next day's post.

Welcome, thrice welcome to ]mr. Dunboyne
the elder I If Philip can manage, under my
advice, to place me favourably in the estimation
of this rich old man, his presence and
authority may do for us what wx cannot do
for ourselves. Here is surely an influence to
which my father must submit, no matter how
unreasonable or how angry he may be when
he hears wdiat has happened. I begin already
to feel hopeful of the future.

EUNICE S DIARY.

Through the day, and through the night, I.
feel a misery that never leaves me — I mean
the misery of fear.

I am trying to find out some harmless
means of employing myself, which will keep
evil remembrances from me. If I don't
succeed, my fear tells me what will happen.
I shall be in cano-er of o^oini'' mad.

I dare not confide in any living creature.
I don't know what other persons might think
of me, or how soon I might find myself
perhaps in an asylum. In this helpless condition,
doubt and fright seem to be driving

me back to my Journal. I wonder whether I
shall find harmless employment here.

I have heard of old people losing their
memories. What would I not give to be old !
I remember ! oh, how I remember ! One day
after another I see Philip, I see Helena, as I
first saw them when I was among the trees in
the park, ^[y sweetheart's arms, that once
held me, hold my sister now. She kisses him,
kisses him, kisses him.

Is there no Avay of making myself see
something else ? I want to feet back to
remembrances that don't burn in my head,
and tear at my heart. How is it to Ije
done ?

I have tried books — no ! I have tried going
out to look at the shops — no ! I have tried
saying my prayers — no ! And now I am
making my last effort ; trying my pen. !My
black letters fall from it, and take their places
on the white paper. AVill my black letters

help me ? Where can I find something consoling
to write down ? Where ? Where ?

Selina — poor SeliDa, so fond of me, so sorry
for me. Ashen I was happy, she was happy
too. It Alas always amusing to hear her talk.
Oh, my memory, be good to me ! Save me
from Philip and Helena. I want to remember
the pleasant days dien my kind little friend
and I used to gossip in the garden.

iso : the days in the garden won't come
back. What else can I think of?

******

The recollections that I try to encourage
keep aw-ay from me. The other recollections
that I dread, come crowding back. Still
Philip ! Still Helena !

But Selina mixes herself up with them.
Let me try again if I can think of Selina.

How delightfully good to me and patient
with me she was, on our dismal way home
from the park ! And how affectionately she

excused herself for not having warned me of
it, when she first suspected that my own
sister and my worst enemy were one and the
same !

I know I was wrong, my dear, to let my
love and pity close my lips. But remember
how happy you were at the time. The thought
of making you miserable was more than I
could endure — I am so fond of you ! Yes ;
I began to suspect them, on the day when
they first met at the station. And, I am
afraid, I thought it just likely that you might
be as cunning as I was, and have noticed them
too.'

Oh, how ignorant she must have been of
my true thoughts and feelings ! How strangely
people seem to misunderstand their dearest
friends I Knowing, as 1 did, that I could
never love any man but Philip, could I be
wicked enough to suppose that Philip would
love any woman but me ?

I explained to Selina how lie bad spoken to
nie, when we were walking together on the
bank of the river. Shall I ever forget those
exquisite words ? ' I wish I was a better
man, Eunice ; I wish I was good enough to
be worthy of you.' I asked Selina if she
thought he was deceiving me when he said
that. She comforted me by owning that he
must have been in earnest, at the time — and
then she distressed me by giving the reason
why.

sly love, you must have innocently said
something to him, when you and he were
alone, which touched his conscience (when he
had a conscience), and made him ashamed
of himself. Ah, a'ou were too fond of him to
see how he changed for the worse, when your
vile sister joined you, and took possession
of him again ! It made my heart ache to see
you so unsuspicious of them. You asked me,
my poor dear, if they had quarrelled — you

believed they were tired of walking by the
river, when it was you they were tired of —
and you wondered why Helena took him to
see the school. My child ! she was the
leading spirit at the school, and you were
nobody. Her vanity saw the chance of
making him compare you at a disadvantage
with your clever sister. I declare, Euneece,
I lose my head if I only think of it ! All the
strong points in my character seem to slip
away from me. Would you believe it ? — I
have neglected that sweet infant at the cottage;
I have even let Mrs. Molly have her baby
back aofain. If I had the making: of the laws,
PhiKp Dunboyne and Helena Gracedieu should
be hanged together on the same gallows. I
see I shock you. Don't let us talk of it !
Oh, don't let us talk of it !'

And here am I writing of it ! What I had
determined not to do, is what I have done.
Am I losing my senses already ? The very

names that I was most anxious to keep out of
my memory, stare me in the face in the Hues
that I have just Written. PhiHp again !
Helena a^'ain I

Another day ; and something new that
must and will be remembered, shrink from it
as I may. This afternoon, I met Helena on
the stairs.

She stopped, and eyed me with a wicked
smile ; she held out her hand. ' We are
likely to meet often, while we are in the same
house,' she said ; ' hadn't we better consult
appearances, and pretend to be as fond of each
other as ever ?'

I took no notice of her hand ; I took no
notice of her shameless proposal. She tried
again : ' After all, it isn't my fault if Philistines
me better than he likes you. Don't yoi\
see that ?' I still refused to speak to her.
She still persisted. ' How black you look,

Eunice ! Are you sorry you didn't kill me,
when you had your hands on my throat ?'

I said : ' Yes.'

She laughed, and left me. I was obliged to
sit down on the stair — I trembled so. My
own reply frightened me. I tried to find out
why I had said Yes. I don't remember being
conscious of meaning anything. It was as if
somebody else had said Yes — not I. Perhaps
I was provoked, and the word escaped me
before I could stop it. Could I have stopped
it ? I don't know.

Another sleepless night.

Did I pass the miserable hours in stating
letters to Philip, and then tearing them up ?
Or did I only fancy that I wrote to him ? I
have just looked at the fireplace. The torn
paper in it tells me that I did write. Why
did I destroy my letters ? I might have sent

one of them to Philip. After what has
happened ? Oh, no ! no !

Having been many days away from the
Girls' Scripture Class, it seemed to be possible
that o'oino' back to the school and the teachings
help me to escape from myself.

Nothing' succeeds with me. I found it
impossible to instruct the girls as usual ; their
stupidity soon reached the limit of my
patience — suffocated me with rage. One of
them, a poor, fat, feeble creature, began to
cry when I scolded her. I looked with envy
at the tears rolling over her big round cheeks.
If I could only cry, I might perhaps bear my
hard fate with submission.

I walked towards home by a roundabout
way ; feeling as if want of sleep was killing
me by inches.

In the High Street, I saw Helena ; she was
posting a letter, and was not aware that I was
near her. Leaving the post-office, she crossed

VOL. II. 23

the street, and narrowly escaped being runover.
Suppose the threatened accident had
really taken place — how should I have felt,
if it had ended fatally ? What a fool I am to
be putting questions to myself about things
that have not happened !

The walking tired me ; I went straight
home.

Before I could rino- the bell, the house door
opened, and the doctor came out. He stopped
to speak to me. While I had been away (he
said), something had happened at home (he
neither knew nor wished to know what)
which had thrown my father into a state of
violent agitation. The doctor had administered
composing medicine. ' My patient is
asleep now,' he told me ; ' but remember what
I said to you the last time wt met ; a longer
rest than any doctor's prescription can give
him is wdiat he wants. You are not looking*
well yourself, my dear. "What is the matter ?'

I told him of my wretched restless nights ;
and asked if I might take some of the composing
medicine which he had given to my
father. He forbade me to touch a drop of
it. * What is physic for your father, you
foolish child, is not physic for a young
creature like you,' he said. ' Count a thousand,
if you can t sleep to-night, or turn your
pillow. I wish you pleasant dreams.' He
went away, amused at his own humour.

I found Selina waiting to speak with me,
on the subject of poor Papa.

She had been startled on hearing his voice,
loud in anger. In the fear that something
serious had happened, she left her room to
make inquiries, and saw Helena on the landing
of the flight of stairs beneath, leaving the
study. After waiting till my sister was out
of the way, Selina ventured to present herself
at the study door, and to ask if she could be
of any use. My father, walking excitedly up

23—2

and down the room, declared that both his
daughters had behaved infamously, and that
he would not suffer them to speak to him
again until they had come to their senses, on
the subject of Mr. Dunboyne. He would
enter into no further explanation ; and he had
ordered, rather than requested, Selina to leave
him. Having obeyed, she tried next to find
me, and had just looked into the dining-room
to see if I was there, when she was frightened
by the sound of a fall in the room above —
that is to say, in the study. Running upstairs
again, she had found him insensible on the
floor, and had sent for the doctor.

And mind this,' Selina continued, ' the
person who has done the mischief, is the
person whom I saw leaving the study. What
your unnatural sister said to provoke her
father '

That your unnatural sister will tell you
herself,' Helena's voice added. She had

opened the door, while we were too much
absorbed in our talk to hear her.

Selina attempted to leave the room. I
caught her by the hand, and held her back.
I was afraid of what I might do if she left
me by myself. Xever have I felt anything
like the ras^e that tortured me, when I saw
Helena looking' at us with the same wicked
smile on her lips that had insulted me when
we met on the stairs. ' Have we anything
to be ashamed of ?' I said to Selina. ' Stay
where you are.'

You may be of some use, Miss Jillgall, if
you stay,' my sister suggested. ' Eunice seems
to be trembling. Is she angry, or is she ill ?'

The sting of this was in the tone of her
voice. It was the hardest thing I ever had todo
in my life — but I did succeed in controlling
myself.

'Go on with what you have to say,' T
answered, ' and don't notice me.'

You are not very polite, my dear, but I
can make allowances. Oh, come ! come !
putting up your hands to stop your ears is
too childish. You would do better to express
regret for having misled your father. Yes !
you did mislead him. Only a few days since,
you left him to suppose that you were engaged
to Philip. It became my duty, after that, to
open his eyes to the truth ; and if I unhappily
provoked him, it was your fault. I was
strictly careful in the language I used. I
said : " Dear father, you have been misinformed
on a very serious subject. The only
marriage engagement for which your kind
sanction is requested, is 7??y engagement, shave
consented to become Mrs. Philip Dunboyne." '

^ Stop!' I said.

Why am I to stop ?'

Because I have something to say. You
and I are looking at each other. Does my face
tell you what is passing in my mind ?'

'Your slice seems to be paler than usual,'
she answered — ' that's all.'

Xo,' T said ; * that is not all. The devil
that possessed me, when I discovered you with
Philip, is not cast out of me yet. Silence the
sneering devil that is in You, or we may both
live to re^iiTet it.'

Whether I did or did not frighten her,
I cannot say. This only I knows — she
turned away silent! v to the door, and Event
out.

I dropped on the sofa. That horrid hungering
for revenge, which I felt for the first time
when I knew how Helena had wronged me,
began to degrade and tempt me again. In
the effort to get away from this new evil self
of mine, I tried to find sympathy in Selina,
and called to her to come and sit by me. She
seemed to be startled when I looked at her,
but she recovered herself, and came to me, and
took my hand.

I TS'isli I could comfort you!' she said, in
her kind simple way.

Keep my hand in your hand I told her ;
I am drowning in dark water — and I have
nothing to hold by but you.'

Oh, my darling, don't talk in that way!'

Good Selina ! dear Selina 1 You shall
talk to Me. Say something harmless — tell mea
melancholy story — try to make me cry.'

My poor little friend looked sadly bewildered.


I'm more likely to cry myself,' she said.
This is so heart-breaking — I almost wish I
was back in the time, before you came home,
the time when your detestable sister first
showed how she hated me. I was haj^py,
meanly happy, in the spiteful enjoyment of
provoking her. Oh, Euneece, I shall never
recover my spirits again ! All the pity in the
world would not be pity enough for you. So
hardly treated ! so young ! so forlorn ! Your

food father too ill to help you; your poor
mother '

I interrupted her ; she had interested me in
something better than my o^Yn wretched self.
I asked directly if she had known my mother.

My dear child, I never even saw her !'

Has my father never spoken to you about
her?'

Only once, when I asked him how long
she had been dead. He told me you lost her
while you were an infant, and he told me no
more. I was looking at her portrait in the
study, only yesterday. I think it must be a bad
portrait ; your mother's face disappoints me.'

I had arrived at the same conclusion years
since. But I shrank from confessing it.

At any rate,' Selina continued, ' you are
not like lier. Nobody would ever guess that
you were the child of that lady, with the long
slanting forehead and the restless look in her
eyes.'

What Selina had said of me and my mother's

portrait, other friends had said. There was

nothing that I know of to interest me in hearer


ing it repeated — and yet it set me pondering
on the want of resemblance between my
mother's face and mine, and wondering (not
for the first time) what sort of woman my
mother was. When my father speaks of her,
no words of praise that he can utter seem to
be good enough for her. Oh, me, I wish I
was a little more like my mother !

It began to o^et dark ; Maria brought in the
lamp. The sudden brightness of the flame
struck my aching eyes, as if it had been a blow
from a knife. I was obliged to hide my face
in my handkerchief. Compassionate Selina
entreated me to go to bed. ' Rest your poor
eyes, my child, and your weary head — and try
at least to get some sleep.' She found me very
docile ; I kissed her, and said good-night. I
had my own idea.

When all Alas quiet in the house, I stole
out into the passage, and listened at the door
of my father's room.

I heard his regular breathing, and opened
the door and went in. The composing medicine,
of which I was in search, was not on the
table by his bedside. I found it in the cupboard
— perhaps placed purposely out of his
reach. They say that some physic is poison,
if you take too much of it. The label on the
bottle told me what the dose was. I dropped
it into the medicine glass, and swallowed it,
and went back to my father.

Very gently, so as not to wake him, I
touched poor Papa's forehead with my lips.
I must have some of your medicine I
whispered to him ; ' I want it, dear, as badly
as you do.'

Then I returned to my own room — and lay
down in bed, waiting to be composed.

EUNICE S DIARY.

My restless nights are passed in Selina's
room.

Her bed remains near the window. Mj
bed has been placed opposite, near the door.
Our night-light is hidden in a corner, so that
the faint glow of it is all that we see. What
trifles these are to write about ! But they
mix themselves up with what I am determined
to set down in my Journal, and then to
close the book for good and all.

I had not disturbed my little friend's enviable
repose, either when I left our bedchamber,
or when I returned to it. The nisrht was

quiet, and the stars were out. Nothing
moved but the throbbing at my temples.
The lights and shadows in our half-darkened
room, which at other times suofo-est strange
resemblances to my fancy, failed to disturb
me now. I was in a darkness of my own
making, having bound a handkerchief, cooled
with water, over my hot eyes. There was
nothing to interfere with the soothing influence
of the dose that I had taken, if my
father's medicine would only help me.

I began badly. The clock in the hall
struck the quarter past the hour, the half-past,
the three-quarters past, the new hour.
Time was awake — and I was awake with
Time.

It was such a trial to my patience that I
thought of going back to my father's room,
and taking a second dose of the medicine, no
matter what the risk might be. On attempting
to get up, I became aware of a change in

me. There was a dull sensation in my limbs
which seemed to bind them down on the
bed. It was the strangest feeling. My will
said, Get up — and my heavy limbs said,
No.

I lay quite still, thinking desperate thoughts,
and getting nearer and nearer to the end that
I had been dreading for so many days past.
Having been as well educated as most girls,
my lessons in history had made me acquainted
with assassination and murder. Horrors which
I had recoiled from reading in past happy
days, now returned to my memory ; and, this
time, they interested instead of revolting me.
I counted the three first ways of illinois I
happened to remember them, in my books of
instruction : — a way by stabbing ; a way by
poison ; a way in a bed, by suffocation with a
pillow. On that dreadful night, I never once
called to mind what I find myself remembering
now — the harmless past time, when our friends

used to say : ' Eunice is a good girl ; we are
all fond of Eunice.' Shall I ever be the same
lovable creature again ?

While I lay thinking, a strange thing
happened. Philip, who had haunted me for
days and nights together, vanished out of
my thoughts. My memory of the love which
had beii'un so brio^htlv, and had ended so
miserably, became a blank. Nothing was
left but my own horrid visions of vengeance
and death.

For awhile, the strokes of the clock still
reached my ears. But it was an effort to
count them ; I ended in letting them pass
unheeded. Soon afterwards, the round of
my thoughts began to circle slowly and more
slowly. The strokes of the clock died out.
The round of my thoughts stopped.

All this time, my eyes were still covered
by the handkerchief which I had laid over
them.

The darkness began to ^Yeigll on my spirits,
and to fill me with distrust. I found myself
suspecting that there was some change —
perhaps an unearthly change — passing over
the room. To remain blindfolded any longer
was more than I could endure. I lifted my
hand — without being conscious of the heavy
sensation which, some time before, had laid
my limbs helpless on the bed — I lifted my
hand, and drew the handkerchief away from
my eyes.

The faint glow of the night-light was extinguished.


But the room was not quite dark. There
was a ghastly light trembling over it ; like
nothing that I have ever seen by day ; like
nothing that 1 have ever seen by night. I
dimly discerned Selina's bed, and the frame
of the window, and the curtains on either
side of it — but not the starlight, and not the
shadowy tops of the trees in the garden.

The light grew fainter and fainter ; the
objects in the room faded slowly away. Darkness
came.

It may be a saying hard to believe — but,
when I declare that I was not frightened, I
am telling the truth. Whether the room Alas
lit by awful light, or sunk in awful dark, I
was equally interested in the expectation of
what might happen next. I listened calmly
for Avhat I might hear : I waited calmly for
what I might feel.

A touch came first. I felt it creeping on
my face — like a little fluttering breeze. The
sensation pleased me for a Avhile. Soon it
grew colder, and colder, and colder, till it
froze me.

Oh, no more !' I cried out. ' You are
killing me with an icy death !'

The dead-cold touches lingered a moment
longer — and left me.

The first sound came.

VOL. II. 24

It Alas the sound of a Avliisper on my
pillow, close to my ear. My strange insensibility
to fear remained undisturbed. The
whisper was welcome, it kept me company in
the dark room.

It said to me : ' Do you know who I
am r ■

I answered : ' Xo.'

It said : ' AVho have you been thinking of
tills evening ?'

I answered : ' ]\Iy mother.'

The whisper said : ' I am your mother.'

Oh, mother, command the light to come
back ! Show yourself to me !'

Xo.'

Why not ?'

My face was hidden when I passed from
life to death. My face no mortal creature may
see.' - ^

Oh, mother, touch me ! Kiss me I'
^Xo.'

Why not ?'

^ My touch is poison. My kiss is death

The sense of fear began to come to me now.
I moved my head away on the pillow. The
whisper followed my movement.

Leave me,' I said. ^ You are an Evil
Spirit.'

The whisper answered : ' I am your
mother.'

You come to tempt me.'

I come to harden your heart. Daughter
of mine, whose blood is cool ; daughter of
mine, who tamely submits — you have loved.
Is it true ?'

It is true.'

The man you loved has deserted you. Is
it true ?'

It is true.'

A. woman has lured him away to herself.
A woman has had no mercy on you, or on
him. Is it true ?'

94 2

It is true

If she lives, what crime towards you will
she commit next ?'

If she lives, she will marry him

Wni you let her live ?'
'Nevers - . . •.

Have I hardened your heart against her ?*
Yes ;

Will you kill her?'
^ Show me how

There was a sudden silence. I was still left
in the darkness ; feelings nothing", hearing
nothing. Even the consciousness that I was
lying on my bed deserted me. I had no idea
that I was in the bedroom ; I had no knowledge
of where I was.

The ghastly light that I had seen already
dawned on me once more. I was no longer in
my bed, no longer in my room, no longer in
the house. Without wonder, without even a
feeling of surprise, I looked round. The place

vas familiar to me. I was alone in the museum
of our town.

The li«:ht flowed alone in front of me. 1
followed, from room to room in the Museum,
where the lio'ht led.

First, through the picture gallery, hung
with the works of modern masters. Then,
through the room filled with specimens of
stuffed animals. The lion and the tiger,
the vulture of the Alps and the great albatross,
looked like living creatures threatening
me, in the supernatural light. I entered the
third room, devoted to the exhibition of ancient
armour, and the weapons of all nations. Here
the liffht rose higher, and, lea vino; me in darkness
where I stood, showed a collection of
swords, daggers, and knives arranged on the
wall in imitation of the form of a star.

The whisper sounded again, close at my
ear. It echoed my own thought, when I had
called to mind the ways of killing which

history had taught me. It said : ' Kill her with
the knife

Xo. My heart failed me when I thought
of the blood. I hid the dreadful weapons
from my view. I cried out : ' Let me go ! let
me go I'

Again, I was lost in darkness. Again, I
had no knowledge in me of where I was.
Again, after an interval, the light showed me
the new place in which I stood.

I was alone in the burial ground of our
parish church. The light led me on, among
the graves, to the lonely' corner in which the
great yew tree stands ; and, rising higher, revealed
the solemn foliage, brightened bv the
fatal red fruit which hides in itself the seeds of
death.

The whisper tempted me again. It followed
again the train of my own thought. It said :
Kill her by poison.' '

Xo. Revenge by poison steals its way to

its end. The base deceitfulness of Helerui's
crime against me seemed to call for a day of
reckoning' that hid itself under no disguise. I.
raised my cry to be delivered from the sight
of the deadly tree. The changes which I have
tried to describe, followed once more the confession
of what I felt ; the darkness was dispelled
for the third time.

I was standing in Helena's room, looking at
her as she lay asleep in her bed.

She was quite still now ; but she must have
been restless at some earlier time. The bedclothes
were disordered, her head had sunk so
low, that the pillow rose high and vacant
above her. There, coloured by a tender flush
of sleep, was the face whose beauty put my
poor face to shame. There, was the sister who
had committed the worst of murders — the
wretch who had killed in me all that made life
worth having. While that thought was in my
mind, I heard the whisper again. ' Kill her

openly,' the tempting mother said. ' Kill her
daringly. Faint heart, do you still want
courage? Rouse your spirit; look! see yourself
in the act I'

The temptation took a form which now tried
me for the first time.

As if a mirror had reflected the scene, I saw
myself standing by the bedside, with the pillow
that was to smother the sleeper in my hands.
I heard the whispering voice telling me how to
speak the words that warned and condemned
her : ' \Yake ! you who have taken him from

me! Wake! and meet your doom.'

%j

I saw her start up in the bed. The sudden
movement disordered the lightness over her
bosom, and showed the miniature portrait of a
man, Imng round her neck.

The man was Philip. The likeness was
looking at me.

So dear, so lovely — those eyes that had
once been the light of my heart, mourned forme

and judged me now. They saw the guilty
thoughts that polite me ; they brought me
to my knees, imploring him to help me back
to my better self : ' One last mercy, dear, to
comfort me under the loss of you. Let the
love that was once my life, be my good angel
still. Save me, Philip, even though you forsake
me — save me from myself!'

There was a sudden cry.

The agony of it pierced my brain — drove
away the ghastly light — silenced the tempting
whispers. I came to myself I saw — and not
in a dream.

Helena had started up in her bed. That
cry of terror, at the sight of me in her room
at night, had burst from her lips. The
miniature of Philip hung round her neck, a
visible reality. Though my head was dizzy,
though my heart was sinking, I had not lost
my senses yet. All that the night lamp could

slow me, I still saw; and I heard the sound,
faintly, when the door of the bed-chamber was
opened. Alarmed by that piercing cry, ni'
father came hurrying into the room.

Xot a word passed between us three. The
whispers that I had heard were wicked ; the
thoughts that had been in my mind were vile.
Had they left some poison in the air of the
room, which killed the words on our lips ?

My father looked at Helena. With a
trembling hand, she pointed to me. He put
his arm round me, and held me up. I remember
his leading me away — and I remember
nothing more.

My last words are written. I lock up this
journal of misery — never, I hope and pray, to
open it again.

EVENTS m THE FAMILY, RELATED BY THE
GO Vernon.

THE Middle-aged LADY.

In the year 1870, I found myself compelled to
submit to the demands of two hard taskmasters.
Advanced' ao^e and failing; health
reminded the Governor of the Prison of his
duty to his successor, in one unanswerable
word — Resign.

When they have employed us and interested
us, for the greater part of our lives, we bid
farewell to our duties — even to the gloomy
duties of a prison — with a sense of regret.
My view of the future presented a vacant
prospect indeed, when I looked at my idle life
to come, and wondered what I should do with

it. Loose on the world — at my age ! — I
drifted into domestic refuge, under the care of
my two dear and good sons. After a while
(never mind how long a while) I began to
grow restless under the heavy burden of idleness.
Having nothing else to complain of, I
complained of my health, and consulted a
doctor. That sagacious man hit on the right
way of getting rid of me — he recommended
travelling.

This was unexpected advice. After some
hesitation, I accepted it reluctantly.

The instincts of age recoil from making-new
acquaintances, contemplating new places,
and adopting new habits. Besides, I hate
railway travelling. However, I contrived to
^^X. as far as Italy, and stopped to rest at
Florence. Here, I found pictures by the old
masters that I could really enjoy, a public
park that I could honestly admire, and an
excellent friend and colleague of former days ;

once chaplain to the prison, now clergyman in
chance of the English Church. AVe met in
the gallery of the Pitt Palace; and he
recognised me immediately. T was pleased
to find that the lapse of years had made so
little difference in my personal appearance.

The traveller who advances as far as
Florence, and does not go on to Rome, must
be regardless indeed of the opinions of his
friends. Let me not attempt to conceal it — I
am that insensible traveller. Over and over
again, I said to myself : ' Rome must be done \
and over and over again, I put off doing it.
To own the truth, the fascinations of Florence,
aided by the society of my friend, laid so
strong a hold on me that I believe I should
have ended my days in the delightful Italian
city, but for the dangerous illness of one of
my sons. This misfortune hurried me back to
England, in dread, every step of the way, of
finding that I had arrived too late. The journey

(thank God) proved to have been taken
without need. My son was no longer in
danger, when I reached London in the year
1875.

At that date, I was near enough to the
customary limit of human life to feel the
necessity of rest and quiet. In other words,
my days of travel had come to their end.

Having established myself in my own
country, I did not forget to let old friends
know where they might find me. Among
those to whom I wrote was another colleague
of past years, who still held his medical
appointment in the prison. When I received
the doctor's reply, it enclosed a letter directed
to me at my old quarters in the Governor's
rooms. Who could possibly have sent a letter
to an address which I had left five years
since ? sly correspondent proved to be no
less a person than the Congregational Minister
the friend whom I had estranged from me

by the tone in winch I had written to him, on
the longe-past occasion of his wife's death.

It was a distressing letter to read. I heir
permission to give only the substance of it in
this place.

Entreating me, with touching expressions
of humility and sorrow, to forgive his long
silence, the writer appealed to my friendly
remembrance of him. He was in sore need of
counsel, under serious difficulties ; and I was
the only person to whom he could apply for
help. In the disordered state of his health at
that time, he ventured to hope that I would
visit him at his present place of abode, and
would let him have the happiness of seeing
me as speedily as possible. He concluded
Tvith this extraordinary postscript :

AVhen YOU see my daughters, sav nothing:
to either of them which relates, in any way,
to the subject of their ages. You shall vicar
wdiy when we meet.'

VOL. II. 2d

The reading of this letter naturally reminded
me of the claims which my friend's noble
conduct had established on my admiration
and respect, at the past time Ashen we met in
the prison. I could not hesitate to grant his
request — strangely as it was expressed, and
doubtful as the prospect appeared to be of my
answering the expectations which he had
founded on the renewal of our intercourse.
AnswTnng his letter by telegraph, I promised
to be with him on the next day.

On arriving at the station, I found that I
was the only traveller, by a first class carriage,
who left the train. A young lady, remarkable
by her good looks and good dressing, seemed
to have noticed this triiiin2: circumstance. She
approached me with a ready smile. ' 1 believe
I am speaking to my father's friend,' she said ;
my name is Helena Gracedieu.'

Here was one of the Minister's two
^ daughters ' ; and that one of the two — as

I discovered the moment I shook hands with
her — who Alas my friend's own child. Miss
Helena recalled to me lier mother's face,
infinitely improved by youth and health, and
by a natural beauty which that cruel and
deceitful woman could never have possessed.
The slanting' forehead and the shifting flashing
eyes, that I recollected in the parent, were
reproduced (slightly reproduced, I ought to
say) in the child. As for the other features, 1
had never seen a snore beautiful nose and
mouth, or a more delicately-shaped outline,
than was presented by the lower part of the
face. But Miss Helena somehow failed to
charm me. I doubt if I should have fallen in
love with her, even in the days when I was a
foolish young man.

The first question that I put, as we drove
from the station to the house, related naturally
to her father.

lie is very ill,' she began ; ' I am afraid

you must prepare yourself to see a sad change.
Nerves. The mischief first showed itself, the
doctor tells us, in derangement of his nervous
system. He has been, I regret to tell you,
obstinate in refusing to give up his preaching
and pastoral work. He ought to have tried
rest at the seaside. Things have gone on from
bad to worse. Last Sunday, at the beginning
of his sermon, he broke down. Very, very
sad — is it not ? The doctor says that precious
time has been lost, and he must make up his
mind to resign his chance. He won't hear of
it. You are his old friend. Please try to
persuade him.'

Fluently spoken ; the words well chosen ;
the melodious voice reminding me of the late
Mrs. Gracedieu's advantages in that respect ;
little sighs judiciously thrown in here and
there, just at the right places ; everything, let
me own, that could present a dutiful daughter
as a pattern of propriety — and nothing, let me

add, that could produce an impression on my
insensible temperament. If I had not been
too discreet to rush at a hasty conclusion, \
miii'ht have been inclined to say : her mother's
child, every inch of her I

The interest which I was still able to feel in
my friend's domestic affairs centred in the
daughter Avhom he had adopted.

In her infancy I had seen the child, and
liked her ; I was the one person living (since
the death of ]\[rs. Gracedien) who knew how
the Minister had concealed the sad secret of
her parentage ; and I wanted to discover if the
hereditary taint had begun to show itself in
the innocent offspring of the murderess. Just
as I was considering' how I mi^dit harmlessly
speak of Miss Helena's ' sister,' Miss Helena
herself introduced the subject.

slay I ask,' she resumed, ' if you were disappointed
when you found nobody but me to
meet you at our station ?'

Here vas an opportunity of paying her a
compliment, if I had been a younger man, or
if she had produced a favourable impression
on me. As it was, I hit — if I may praise
myself — on an ingenious compromise.

• AVhat excuse could I have,' I asked, ' for
feeling disappointed ?'

AVell, I hear you are an official personage
I ought to say, perhaps, a retired official
personage. We might have received you
more respectfully, if hotly my father's daughters
had been present at the station. It's not my
fault that my sister was not with me.'

The tone in which she said this strengthened
my prejudice against her. It told me that the
two girls were living together on no very
friendly terms ; and it suirsrested — iustlv or
unjustly I could not then decide — that Miss
Helena was to blame.

Perhaps your sister is ill ?' I said.

My sister is away from home.'

Surely, Miss Helena, that is a good reason
for her not coming to meet me ?'

I beg Your jmrdon — it is a bad reason.
She has been sent away for the recovery of
her health — and the loss of her health is
entirely her own fault.'

AVhat did this matter to me ? I decided on
dropping the subject. My memory reverted,
however, to past occasions on which the loss
of my health had been entirely my own fault.
There was something in these personal recollections,
which encouraged my perverse tendency
to sympathize with a young lady to whom
I had not yet been introduced. The young
lady's sister appeared to be discouraged by my
silence. She said : ' I hope you don't think the
worse of me for wdiat I have just mentioned ?'

Certainly not.'

Perhaps, you fail to see any need for \\\\
speaking of my sister at all ? Will you kindly
listen, if I try to explain myself ?'

^Yith pleasure.'

She slyly set the best construction on my
perfectly commonplace reply.

Thank you,' she said. ' The fact is, my
father (I can't imagine why) wishes you to
see my sister as well as me. He has written
to the farmhouse at which she is now staying,
to tell her to come home tomorrow. It is
possible — if your kindness offers me an opportunity
— that I may ask to be guided by your
experience, in a little matter which interests
2116. ^Ij sister is rash, and reckless, and hasa
terrible temper. I should be very sorry
indeed if you were induced to form an unfavourable
opinion of me, from anything you
might notice if you see us together. You
understand me, I hope ?'

I quite understand you.'

To set me against her sister, in her own
private interests — there, as I felt sure, was the
motive under which she Alas acting. As hard

as her mother, as selfish as her mother, and,
judging from those two bad qualities, probably
as cruel as her mother. That was
how I understood Miss Helena Gracedieu,
when our carriage drew up at her father's
house.

A middle-aged lady was on the door-step,
when we arrived, just ringing the bell. She
looked round at us both ; being evidently as
complete a stranger to my fair companion as
she was to me. When the servant opened the
door, she said :

Is Miss Jillo'all at home ?'

At the sound of that odd name, Miss Helena
tossed her head disdainfully. She took no sort
of notice of the stranger-lady who was at the
door of her father's house. This young person's
contempt for Miss Jillgall appeared to
extend to Miss Jillgall's friends.

In the meantime, the servant's answer was :
Xot at home.'

The middle-ao'ed lady said : ' Do you expect
her back soon ?'

Yes, ma'am

I will call again, later in the day

AVhat name, if you please ?'

The lady stole another look at me, before
she replied.

Xever mind the name she said — and
walked away.

THE minister's Misfortune.

Do you know that lady ?' Miss Helena asked,

as we entered the house.

^ She is a perfect stranger to me I

answered.

Are you sure you have not forgotten her ?'
Why do you think I have forgotten her ?'
Because she evidently remembered you
The lady had no doubt looked at me twice.

If this meant that my face was familiar to her,

I could only repeat what I have already said.

Never, to my knowledge, had I seen her

before.

Leading the way upstairs, Miss Helena

apologised for taking me into her father's
bedroom. ' He is able to sit up in an armchair,'
she said ; ' and he might do more, as
I think, if he would exert himself. He won't
exert himself. Very sad. Would you like to
look at your room, before you see my father ?
It is quite ready for you. "We hope ' — she
favoured me with a fascinating smile, devoted
to winning my heart when her interests required
it — ' we hope you will pay us a long-visit
; we look on you as one of ourselves.'

I thanked her, and said I would shake hands
with my old friend before I went to my room.
\\e parted at the bedroom door.

It is out of my power to describe the shock
that overpowered me when I first saw the
Minister ao-ain, after the honos interval of time
that had separated us. Xothing that his
daughter said, nothing that I myself anticipated,
had prepared me for that lamentable
change. For the moment, I was not sufficiently

master of myself to be able to speak
to him. He added to my embarrassment by
the humility of his manner, and the formal
elaboration of his apologies.

1 feel painfully that I have taken a liberty
with viii,' he said, ' after the honos estrangement
between us — for which my want of
Christian forbearance is to blame. Forgive
it, sir, and forget it. I hope to show that
necessity justifies my presumption, in subjecting
you to a wearisome journey for my sake.'

Beginning: to recover myself I beo^s^ed that
he would make no more excuses. My interruption
seemed to confuse him.

I wished to say,' he went on, ' that you are
the one man who can understand me. There
is my only reason for asking to see you, and
looking forward as I do to your advice. You
remember the night — or was it the day ? —
before that miserable woman was hanged ?
You were the only person present when I

agreed to adopt the poor little creature, stained
already (one may say) by its mother's infamy.
J think your wisdom foresaw what a terrible
responsibility I was undertaking ; you tried
to prevent it. Yell ! well ! you have been in
my confidence — you only. ]\Iind ! nobody in
this house knows that one of the two girls
is not really my daughter. Pray sto]) me,
if you find me wandering from the point.
My wish is to show that you are the only

man I can open my heart to. She ' He

2:>aused, as if in search of a lost idea, and left
the sentence uncompleted. ' Yes,' he went
on, 'I was thinking of my adopted child.
Did I ever tell you that I baptized her myself?
and by a good Scripture name too — Eunice.
Ah, sir, that little helpless baby is a grown-up
girl now ; of an age to inspire love, and to
feel love. I blush to acknowledge it ; I have
behaved with a want of self-control, with a
cowardly weakness — . Xo I I am, indeed,

wandering; this time. I ou£!-ht to have toil
you first that I have been brought face to face
with the possibility of Eunice's marriage.
And, to make it worse still, I can't help liking
the young man. He comes of a good family —
excellent manners, highly educated, plenty
of money, a gentleman in every sense of the
word. And poor little Eunice is so fond of
him ! Isn't it dreadful to be obliged to check
lier dearly-loved Philip ? The young gentleman's
name is Philip. Do you like the name ?
I say I am obliged to check her sweetheart in
the rudest manner, when all he wants to do is
to ask me modestly for my sweet Eunice's
hand. Oh, what have I not suffered, without
a word of sympathy to comfort me, before
I had courage enough to write to you ! Shall
I make a dreadful confession ? If my religious
convictions had not stood in mv way, I believe
I should have committed suicide. Put yourself
in my place. Try to see yourself shrinking

from a necessary explanation, ^vlien the
happiness of a harmless girl — so dutiful, so
affectionate — depended on a word of kindness
from your lips. And that word you are afraid
to speak ! Don't take offence, sir ; I mean
myself, not you. Why don't you say something
?' he burst out fiercely, incapable of
perceiving that he had allowed me no opportunity
of speaking to him. ' Good God !
don't you understand me, after all ?'

The signs of mental confusion in his talk
had so distressed me, that I had not been
composed enough to feel sure of what he
really meant, until he described himself as
shrinking from a necessary explanation.'
Hearing those words, my knowledge of the
circumstances helped me ; I realised what his
situation really was.

Compose yourself,' I said, ' I understand
you at last.'

He had suddenly become distrustful.

Prove it !' he muttered, with a furtive look
at me. ' I want to be satis hied that you
understand my position.'

This is your position.' I told him. ' You
are placed between two deplorable alternatives.
If you tell this young' £gentleman that Miss
Eunice's mother was a criminal hanged for
murder, his family — even if he himself doesn't
recoil from it — will unquestionably forbid the
marriage ; and your adopted daughter's happiness
will be the sacrifice.'

True I' he said. ^ Frightfully true ! Go on.'

If. on the other hand, you sanction the
marriage, and conceal the truth, you commit a
deliberate act of deceit ; and you leave the
lives of the young couple at the mercy of a
possible discovery, which might part husband
and wife — cast a slur on their children — and
break up the household.'

He shuddered while he listened to me.
Come to the end of it,' he cried.

VOL. II. 26

I had no more to sav, and I was olio-ed to
answer him to that effect.

Xo more to say ?' he replied. ' You have
not told me yet what I most want to know.'

I did a rash things I asked what it was
that he most wanted to know.

^ Can't you see it for yourself?' he demanded
indignantly. ' Suppose you were put between
those two alternatives which you mentioned
just now.'

Well ?'

What would you do, sir, in my place ?
Would you own the disgraceful truth — before
the marriage — or run the risk, and keep the
horrid story to yourself ?'

Either way, my reply might lead to serious
consequences. I hesitated.

He threatened me with his poor feeble hand.
It was only the cano-er of a moment : his

Iso ^

humour changed to supplication. He reminded
me piteously of bvu'one days : ' You used to

be a kind-hearted man. Has a2:e hardened

o

you ? Have you no pity left for your old
friend ? My poor heart is sadly in want of a
word of wisdom, spoken kindly.'

Who could have resisted this ? I took his
hand : ' Be at ease, dear Minister. In your
place I should run the risk, and keep that
horrid story to myself.'

He sank back gently in his chair. ' Soli,
the relief of it I' he said. 'How cnn I thank
you as I ought for quieting my mind ?'

I seized the opportunity of quieting his
mind to good purpose by suggesting a change
of subject. ' Let us have done with serious
talk for the present,' I proposed. ' I have
been an idle man for the last five years, and I
want to tell you about my travels.'

His attention began to wander, he evidently
felt no interest in my travels. ' Are you sure,'
he asked anxiously, ' that we have said all we
ought to say? Nol' he cried, answering his

2G— 2

own question. ' I believe I have forgotten
something — I am certain I have forgotten
something. Perhaps I mentioned it in the letter
I wrote to you. Have you got my letter ?'

I showed it to him. He read the letter, and
o-ave it back to me with a heavy sirdi. ^ Xot
there I' he said despairingly. ' Xot there!'

Is the lost remembrance connected with
anybody in the house ?' I asked, trying to help
him. ' Does it relate, by any chance, to one of
the young ladies ?'

You wonderful man ! Xothing escapes you.
Yes ; the thing I have forgotten concerns one
of the girls. Stop ! Let me get at it by myself.
Surely it relates to Helena ?' He hesitated ;
his face clouded over with an expression of
anxious thought. ' Yes ; it relates to Helena,'
he repeated — ' but how ?' His eyes filled
with tears. ' I am ashamed of my weakness,'
he said faintly. ' You don't know how dreadful
it is to foret thing's in this wav.'

The injury that his mind had sustained now
assumed an aspect that was serious indeed.
The subtle machinery which stimuLates the
memory, by means of the association of ideas,
appeared to have lost its working power in the
intellect of this unhappy man. I made the
first suggestion that occurred to me, rather
than add to his distress by remaining silent.

If we talk of your daughter,' I said, ' the
merest accident — a word spoken at random by
you or me — may be all your memory wants
to rouse it'

He agreed eagerly to this : ' Yes ! Yes !
Let me begin. Helena met you, I think, at
the station. Of course, I remember that ; it
only happened a few hours since. Well ?'
he went on, with a change in his manner to
parental pride, which it was pleasant to see,
did you think my daughter a fine girl ? I
hope Helena didn't disappoint you ?'

Quite the contrary.' Having made that

necessary reply, I saw my way to keeping his
mind occupied by a harmless sul3Ject. ' It must,
however, be owned,' I went on, * that your
daughter surprised me.'

In what way ?'

AVhen she mentioned her name. Who
could have supposed that you — an inveterate
enemy to the Roman Catholic Church — would
have christened your daughter by the name of
a Roman Catholic Saint ?'

He listened to this with a smile. Had I
happily blundered on some association which
his mind was still able to pursue ?

You happen to be wrong this time,' he
said pleasantly. ' I never gave my girl the
name of Helena ; and, what is more, I never
baptized her. You ought to know that.
Years and years ago, I Avrote to tell you that
my poor wife had made me a proud and happy
father. And surely I said that the child was
born while she was on a visit to her brother's

rectory. Do you remember the name of the
place ? I told you it was a remote little

village, called Suppose we put your

memory to a test ? Can you remember the
name ?' he asked, with a momentary appearance
of triumph showing itself, poor fellow, in his
face.

After the time that had elapsed, the name
had slipped my memory. "When I confessed
this, he exulted over me, with an unalloyed
pleasure which it was cheering to see.

Your memory is failing you now,' he said.
The name is Long Lanes. And what do
you think my wife did — this is so characteristic
of her ! — when I presented myself at her bedside.
Instead of speaking of our own baby,
she reminded me of the name that I had given
to our adopted daughter when I baptized
the child. " You chose the ugliest name that
a girl can have," she said. I begged her to
remember that "Eunice" was a name in

Scripture. She persisted in spite of me.'
(What firmness of character I) "I detest
the name of Eunice I" she said; " and now
that I have a girl of my own, it's my turn to
choose the name ; I claim it as my right." She
was beginning to get excited ; I allowed her
to have her own way, of course. ''' Only let
me know," I said, '* what the name is to be
when you have thought of it." 3Jy dear sir,

tJ CD ./ /

she had the name ready, without thinking
about it : •'• ]\Iy baby shall be called by the
name that is sweetest in my ears, the name of
my dear lost mother." eye had — what shall
I call it ? — a slight difference of opinion
when I heard that the name was to be Helena.
I really could not reconcile it to my conscience
to baptize a child of mine by the name of a
Popish saint. ]\Iy wife's brother set things
right between us. A worthy good man ; he
died not very honos ai^o — I foret the date. Xot
to detain you any longer, the rector of Lonfj

Lanes baptized our daughter. That is ho^v
she comes by her iin-Enghsh name ; and so it
happens that her birth is registered in a village
which her father has never inhabited. I hope,
sir, you think a little better of my memory
now ?'

I was afraid to tell him Avliat I really did
think.

He was not fifty years old yet ; and he had
just exhibited one of the sad symptoms which
mark the broken memory of old age. Lead
him back to the events of many years ago,
and (as lie had just proved to me) he could
remember well and relate coherently. But let
him attempt to recall circumstances which had
only taken place a short time since, and forgetfulness
and confusion presented the lamentable
result, just as I have related it.

The effort that he had made, the agitation
that he had undergone in talking to me, had
confirmed my fears that he would overtask

his wasted strength. He lay back in his
chair. ' Let us go on with our conversation,'
he murmured. 'We haven't recovered what I
had forgotten, yet.' His eyes closed, and
opened again languidly. ' There was something
I wanted to recall,' he resumed, ' and
you were helping me.' His weak voice died
away ; his weary eyes closed again. After
waiting until there could be no doubt that he
was resting peacefully in sleep, I left the room.

THE LIVELY OLD MAID.

A PERFECT stranger to the interior of the
house (seeing that my experience began and
ended With the minister's bedchamber), I
descended the stairs, in the character of a
guest in search of domestic information.

On my ^vav down, I heard the door of a

ly ^\lv

room on the ground floor opened, and a
woman's voice below, speaking in a hurry :
My dear, I have not a moment to spare ;
my patients are Awaiting for me.' This Alas
followed by a confidential communication,
judging by the tone. ' blind ! not a word
about me to that old gentleman I' Her

patients were waiting for lier — had I discovered
a female doctor ? And there was
some okl gentleman whom she was not willing
to trust — steely I was not that much-injured
man ?

Reaching the hall just as the lady said her
last words, I caught a glimpse of her face,
and discovered the middle-aged stranger who
had called on ' Miss Jillgall/ and had promised
to repeat her visit. A second lady was
at the door, with her back to me, taking leave
of her friend. Having said good-bye, she
turned round — and we confronted each other.

I found her to be a little person, wiry and
active ; past the prime of life, and ugly enough
to encourage prejudice, in persons who take
a superficial view of their fellow-creatures.
Looking impartially at the little sunken eyes
which rested on me with a comical expression
of embarrassment, I saw signs that said :
There is some brood here, under a disagreeable
surface, if you can only find it.

She saluted me with a carefully-performed
curtsey, and threw open the door of a room on
the around floor.

Pray walk in, sir, and permit me to introduce
myself. I am ]mr. Gracedieu's cousin
Miss Jillgall. Proud indeed to make the
acquaintance of a gentleman distinguished in
the service of his country — or perhaps I ought
to say, in the service of the Law. The
Governor offers hospitality to prisoners. And
who introduces prisoners to board and lodging
with the Governor ? — the Law. Beautiful
weather for the time of the year, is it not ?
May I ask — have you seen your room ?'

The embarrassment which I had already
noticed had extended by this time to her voice
ami her manner. She was evident' tr^•in^'
to talk herself into a state of confidence. It
seemed but too probable that I was indeed the
person mentioned Ijy her prudent friend at the
door.

Having' acknowledged that I had not seen

o o

my room yet, my politeness attempted to add
that there was no hurry. The wiry little
lady was of the contrary opinion ; she jumped
out of her chair as if she had been shot out of
it. ' Pray let me make myself useful. The
dream of my life is to make myself useful to
others ; and to such a man as you 1 consider
myself honoured. Besides, I do enjoy
running up and downstairs. This way, dear
sir ; this way to your room.'

She skipped up the stairs, and stopped on
the first landing. ' Do you know, I am a
timid person, though I may not look like it.
Sometimes, curiosity gets the better of me —
and then I grow bold. Did you notice a lady
who was taking leave of me just nov at the
house door ?'

I replied that I had seen the lady for a
moment, but not for the first time. ' Just as
I arrived here from the station,' I said, ^ I

found her paying a visit when you were not
at home.'

Yes — and do tell me one thing more.'
IMy readiness in answering seemed to have
inspired Miss Jillgall with confidence. I
heard no more confessions of overpowering
curiosity. ^ Am I right,' she proceeded, ' in
supposing that Miss Helena accompanied you,
on your way here from the station ?'

Quite right.'

Did she say anything particular, when
she saw the lady asking' for me at the
door ?'

Miss Helena thought,' I said, ' that the
lady recognised me as a person whom she had
seen before.'

And what did you think yourself?'

I thought Miss Helena was wrongs.'

Very extraordinary 1' With that remark
Miss Jillgall dropped the subject. The meaning
of her reiterated inquiries was now, as it

seemed to me, clear enough. She was eager
to discover how I could have inspired the
distrust of me, expressed in the caution
addressed to her by her friend.

Ashen we reached the upper floor, she
]caused before the Minister's room.

I believe many years have passed she said,
since you last saw Mr. Gracediea. I am
afraid you have found him a sadly changed
man ? You won't be angry with me, I hope,
for asking more Questions ? I owe Mr.
Gracedieu a debt of gratitude which no devotion,
on my part, can ever re23ay. You don't
know what a favour I shall consider it, if you
will tell me what you think of him. Did it
seem to you that he was not quite himself?
I don't mean in his looks, poor dear — I mean
in his mind.'

There was true sorrow and sympathy in her
face. I believe I should hardly have thought
her ua'lv. if we had first met at that moment.

Thus far, she had only amused me. I began
really to like Miss Jillgall now.

I must not conceal from you I replied,
that the state of Mr. Gracedieu's mind surprised
and distressed me. But I ought also
to tell you that I saw him perhaps at his
AYorst. The subject on which he Ravished to
speak with me would have agitated any man,
in his state of health. He consulted me about
his daughter's marriage.'

Miss Jillgall suddenly turned pale.

His daughter's marriage ?' she repeated.
Oh, YOU frighten me !'

Why should I frighten you ?'

She seemed to find some difficulty in expressing
herself ' T hardly know how to put
it, sir. You will excuse me (won't you ?)
if I say what I feel. You have influence —
not the sort of influence that finds places for
people who don't deserve them, and gets
mentioned in the newspapers — I only mean

VOL. ir. -^

influence over Mr. Graced leu. That's what

frightens me. How do I know ? Oh,

dear, I'm asking another question I Allow me,
for once, to be plain and positive. I'm afraid,
sir, you have encouraged the sinister to
consent to Helena's marriage.'

Pardon me,' I answered, ' you mean
Eunice's marriage.'
Xo, sir ! Helena.'
Xo, Madam ! Eunice.'
What does he mean?' said Miss Jillgall to
herself.

I heard her. ' This is what I mean,' I
asserted, in mv most positive manner. ' The
only subject on which the Minister has consulted
me is ]\Iiss Eunice's marriage.'

My tone left her no alternative but to believe
me. She looked not only bewildered but
alarmed. ' Oh, poor man. has he lost himself
in such a dreadful way as that X she said to
herself. ' I aren't believe it.' She turned

to nie. ' You have been talking with him for
some time. Please thy to remember. While
Mr. G raced heu was speaking of Euneece, did
he say nothing' of Helena's infamous conduct

o

to her sister ?'

Xot the slightest hint of any such thing, I
assured her, had reached my ears.

Then,' she cried, ' I can tell you what
he has forgotten ! We ke2:>t as much of that
miserable story to ourselves as we could, in
mercy to him. Besides, he was always fondest
of Euneece ; she would live in his memory
when he had forgotten the other — the wretch,
the traitress, the plotter, the fiend !' Miss Jill-galls
good manners slipped, as it were, from
under her ; she clenched her fists as a final
means of expressing her sentiments. ' The
wretched English language isn't half strong
enough for me,' she declared ^^^'ith a look of fury.

I took a liberty. 'May I ask what ]\Iiss
Helena has done ?' I said.

Maj yon ask ? Ob, Heavens ! you must
ask, you shall ask. Mr. Governor, if your
eyes are not opened to Helena's true character,
I can tell you what she will do ; she will deceive
you into taking' her part. Do you thh:ik
she went to the station out of regard for the
great man ? Pooh ! she went with an eye to
her own interests ; and she means to make
the great man useful. Thank God, I can stop
that I'

She checked herself there, and looked
suspiciously at the door of ]mr. Gracedieu's
room.

In the interest of our conversation,' she
whispered, ' we have not given a thought to
the place we have been talking in. Do you
think the ]minister has heard us ?'

Xot if he is asleep — as I left him.'

Miss Jillgall shook her head ominously.
The safe way is this way,' she said. ' Come
with me.'

THE FUTURE LOOKS Gloomily.

~S[y ever helpful guide led me to my room —
well out of Mr. Gracedieu's hearing, if he
happened to be awake — at the other end of
the passage. Having opened the door, she
paused on the threshold. The decrees of
that merciless English despot, Propriety,
claimed her for their own. * Oh, dear !' she
said to herself, ' ought I to go in ?'

My interest as a man (and, what is more,
an old man) in the coming disclosure, was
too serious to be trifled with in this "^vay. I
took her arm, and led her into my room as if
I was at a dinner-party, leading her to the

table. Is it the good or the evil fortune of
mortals that the comic side of life, and the
serious side of life, are perpetually in collision
with each other ? AVe burst out laughing, at
a moment of grave importance to us both.
Perfectly inappropriate, and perfectly natural.
But Ave were neither of us ]philosophers, and
we Avere ashamed of our own merriment the
moment it had ceased.

AVhen you hear what I have to tell you,'
Miss Jillgall began, ' I hope you will think
as I do. AVhat has slipped Mr. Gracedieu's
memory, it may be safer to say — for he is
sometimes irritable, poor dear — where he won't
know anything about it.'

AVitli that she told the lamentable story of
the desertion of Eunice.

In silence I listened, from first to last.
How could I trust myself to speak, as I must
have spoken, in the presence of a woman ?
The cruel injury indicted on the poor girl,

Who had interested and touched me in the
first innocent year of her life — who had grown
to womanhood to be the victim of two wretches,
both trusted by her, both bound to her by the
sacred debt of love — so fired my temper that I
longed to be within reach of the man, with a
horsewhip in my hand. Seeing in my face,
as I suppose, what was passing in my mind,
Miss Jillgall expressed sympathy and admiration
in her own quaint way : ' Ah, I like to
see you so angry ! It's grand to know that
a man who has governed prisoners has got
such a pitying heart. Let me tell you one
thing, sir. You will be more angry than
ever, when you see my sweet girl tomorrow.
And mind this — it is Helena's devouring.
vanity, Helena's wicked jealousy of her sister's
good fortune, that has done the mischief.
Don't be too hard on Philip ! I do believe,
if the truth was toil, he is ashamed of himself


I fc'lt inclined to be harder on philip than
ever. ' Where is he ?' I asked.

]\Iiss Jillg'all started. 'Oh, Mr. Governor,
don't show the severe side of yourself, after
the pretty compliment I have just paid to
you ! AVhat a masterful voice ! and what
eyes, dear sir ; what terrifying eyes I I feel
as if I was one of your prisoners, and had
misbehaved myself

I repeated my question with improvement,
I hope, in my looks and tones : ' Don't think
me obstinate, my dear lady. I only Avant to
know if he is in this town.'

Miss Jillgall seemed to take a curious
pleasure in disappointing me ; she had not forgotten
my unfortunate abruptness of look and
manner. ' You won't find him here,' she said.

Perhaps he has left England ?'

If you must know, sir, he is in London —
with Vlv. Dunboyne.'

The name startled me.

111 a inoiiicnt more it recalled to my nicinory
a remarkable letter, addressed to me many
years ago, which will be found in my introductory
narrative. The writer — an Irish
gentleman, named Dunbovne — confided tome
that his marriage had associated him with
the murderess, avIio had then been recently
executed, as brother-in-law to that infamous
Avoman. This circumstance he had naturally
kept a secret from everyone, including his
son, then a boy. I alone was made an exception
to the general rule, because I alone
could tell him what had become of the ]poor
little iii], Who in spite of the disgraceful end
of her mother was still his niece. If the child
had not been ]provided for, he felt it his duty
to take charge of her education, and to watch
over her prospects in the future. Such had
been his object in writing to me ; and such
was the substance of his letter. I had merely
informed him, in reply, that his kind intentions

had been anticipated, and that the child's
prosperous future was assured.

Miss Jillgall's keen observation noticed the
impression that had been produced upon me.
Mr. Dunboyne's name seems to surprise you
she said.

This is the first time I have heard you
mention it,' I answered.

She looked as if she could hardly believe
me. ' Surely you must have heard the
name,' she said, ' when I told you about
poor Euneece ?'

'Xo.'

Well, then, Mr. Gracedieu must have
mentioned it ?'

Xo.'

This second reply in the negative irritated
her.

At any rate,' she said sharply, ' you appeared
to know mr. Dunboyne's name, just
now.'

Certainly I'

And yet she persisted, ' the name seemed
to come upon you as a surprise. I don't
understand it. If I have mentioned Philip's
name once, I have mentioned it a dozen times.'

We were completely at cross-purposes. She
had taken something' for granted which was an
unfathomable mystery to me.

"Well,' I objected, ' if you did mention his
name a dozen times — excuse me for asking' the
question — what then ?'

Good Heavens I' cried Miss Jillcrall, ' do
you mean to say you never guessed that Philip)
was ]mr. Dunboyne's son ?'

I was petrified.

His son I Dunboyne's son I How could I
have guessed it ?

At a later time only, the good little creature
who lead so innocently deceived me, remembered
that the mischief might have been
wrought bv the force of habit. While he had

still a claim on their regard, the family had
always spoken of Eunice's unworthy lover by
his Christian name ; and what had been
familiar in their mouths felt the influence of
custom, before time enough had elapsed to
make them think as readily of the enemy as
they had hitherto thought of the friend.

Kit I was ignorant of this : and the disclosure
by which I found myself suddenly
confronted was more than I could support.
For the moment, speech was beyond me.

His son! Dunboyne's son!

What a position that young man had occupied,
unsuspected by his father, unknown to
himself! Kept in ignorance of the family disgrace,
he had been a guest in the house of the
man who had consoled his infamous aunt on
the eve of her execution — who had saved his
unhappy cousin from poverty, from sorrow,
from shame. And but one human beings knew
this. And that human beinii' was myself !

Observing' mv irritation, bliss JillLi'all ])lacc(l
her own construction on it.

Do you know anything bad of Philip?' lie
asked eagerly. ' If it's something that will
prevent Helena from marrying him, tell me
what it is, I beg and pray.'

I knew no more of ^ Philip ' (whom she still
called by his Christian name!) than she had
told me herself: there was no help for it but to
disappoint her. At the same time I was unable
to conceal that I was ill at ease, and that
it might be well to leave me by myself. After
a look round the bedchamber to see that
notliinii' was wanting' to mv comfort, she made
her quaint curtsey, and left me with her own
inimitable form of farewell

'Oh, indeed, I have been here too long!
And I'm afraid I have been guilty, once or
twice, of vulgar familiarity. You will excuse
me, I hope. This has been an exciting interview
— I think I am going to cry.'

She ran out of the room ; and carried away
with her some of my kindliest feelings, short
as the time of our acquaintance lead been.
AVhat a wife and what a mother was lost there
and all for want of a pretty face !

Left alone, my thoughts inevitably reverted
to Dunboyne the elder, and to all that had
happened in ]\[r. Gracedieu's family since the
Irish gentleman had written to me in bvirone

years.

The terrible choice of responsibilities which
had preyed on the Minister's mind had been
foreseen by Mr. Dunboyne, when he first
thought of adopting his infant niece, and had
warned him to dread what might happen in
the future, if he brought her up as a member
of the family with his own boy, and if the two
young people became at a later ])ei"iod attached
to each other. How had the wise foresight,
which offered such a contrast to the poor
Minister's impulsive act of mercy, met with its

reward? Fate or Providence (call it which avc
may) had brought Diinboyne's son and the
daughter of the murderess together ; had inspired
those two strangers with love ; and had
emboldened them to plight their troth by a
marriage engagement. AVas the man's betrayal
of the trust placed in him by the faithful girl,
to be esteemed a fortunate circumstance by the
two persons Who knew the true story of her
]parentage, the Minister and myself? Could
we rejoice in an act of infidelity which had embittered
and darkened the gentle harmless life
of the victim? Or could we, on the other
hand, encourage the ruthless deceit, the hateful
treachery, which had put the wicked Helena —
With no exposure to dread if liv married —
into her wronged sister's place ? Impossible!
In the one case as in the other, impossible !

Equally hopeless did the prospect appear,
when I tried to determine what my own
individual course of action ouirht to be.

111 my calmer moments, the idea had
occurred to my mind of gohig to Danboyne
the younger, and, if he had any sense of shame
left, exerting my influence to lead Iii back
to his betrothed wife. How could I now do
this, consistently with my duty to the young-man's
whither ; knowing Avliat I knew, and not
forgetting' that I had myself advised Mr.
Gracedieu to keep the truth concealed, when
I was equally ignorant of Philip Dunboyne's
parentage and of Helena Gracedieu's treachery?

Even if events so ordered it that the
marriage of Eunice might yet take place —
without any interference exerted to produce
that result, one way or the other, on my jxart
it would be just as impossible for me to
speak out now, as it had been in the long-past
years when I had so cautiously answered
Mr. Dunboyne's letter. But what would he
think of me if accident led, sooner or later, to
the disclosure which I had felt bound to

conceal ? The more I tried to forecast the
chances of the future, the darker and the
darker was the view that faced me.

To my sinking heart and wearied mind
good Dame Nature presented a more acceptable
prospect, when I happened to look out of
the window of my room. There I saw the
trees and flower-beds of a garden, tempting me
irresistibly under the cloudless sunshine of a
fine day. I was on my way out, to recover
heart and hope, when a knock at the door
stopped me.

Had Miss Jillii:all returned ? When I said
Come in,' ]mr. Gracedieu opened the door,
and entered the room.

He was so weak that he staggered as he
approached me. Leading him to a chair, I
noticed a wild look in his eyes, and a flush
on his haggard cheeks. Something had happened.


AVhcn you were with me in my room,' he

VOL. II. 28

beofan, ' did I not tell viii that I had forgotten
something ?'

Certainly you did.'

AVell, I laye found the lost remembrance.
My misfortune — I ought to call it the punishment
for my sins, is recalled to me now. The
worst curse that can fall on a father is the
curse that has come to me. I laye a wicked
daughter. My own child, sir ! my own child !'

Had he been awake, while Miss Jillgall and
I had been talking; outside his door? Had he
heard her ask me if Mr. Gracedieu had said
nothing of Helena's infamous conduct to her
sister, while he was speaking of Eunice ? The
way to the lost remembrance had perhaps been
found there. In any case, after that bitter
allusion to his ' wicked daughter ' some result
must follow. Helena Gracedieu and a day of
reckoninG: mio^ht be nearer to each other
already than I had ventured to hope.

I waited anxiously for what he might say tome
next.

THE AVAXDKKIXG MINI).

For the moment, the sinister disappointed
me.

Without speaking, without even looking up,
he took out his pocket-book, and began to
write in it. Constantly interrupted — earlier
by a trembling in the hand that held the
pencil, or by a difficulty (as I imagined) in
expressing thoughts imperfectly realised — his
patience gave way ] he dashed the book on the
floor.

sly mind is gone !' he burst out. ' Oh,
Father in Heaven, let death deliver me from a
body without a mind !' .

28—2

Who could hear him, and be guilty of
the cruelty of preaching self-control ? I
picked up the pocket-book, and offered to
help him.

Do you think you can ?' he asked.

I can at least try.'

Good fellow ! What should I do without
you ? See now ; here is my difficulty. I
have got so many things to say, I want to
separate them — or else they will all run into
each other. Look at the book,' my poor
friend said mournfully ; ' they have run into
each other in spite of me.'

The entries proved to be nearly incomprehensible.
Here and there I discovered some
scattered words, which showed themselves
more or less distinctly in the midst of the
surrounding confusion. The first word that
I could make out was ' Education.' Helped
by that hint, I trusted to guess-work to guide
me in speaking to him. It was necessary to be

positive, or lie ^voul(l have lost all faith in
me.

Well T he said impatiently.

Well,' T answered, * you have something
say to me about the education which you
have given to your daughters.'

'Don't put them together!' he cried.
Dear, patient, sweet Eunice must not be
confounded with that she-devil '

Hush, hush, Mr. Gracedieu I Badly as
Miss Helena has behaved, she is your own
child.'

I repudiate her, sir I Think for a moment
of what she has done — and then think of the
religious education that I have given her.
Heartless ! Deceitful ! The most ignorant
creature in the lowest dens of this town could
have done nothing more basely cruel. And
this, after years on years of patient Christian
instruction on mv ]part I What is religion?
What is education ? T read a horrible book

once (I forget who was the author); it called
religion superstition, and education empty
form. I don't know; upon my word I don't
know that the book may not — Oh, my tongue !
"Why don't I keep a guard over my tongue ?
Are you [a whither, too ? Don't interrupt me.
Put yourself in my place, and think of it.
Heartless, deceitful, and mi daughter. Give
me the pocket-book ; I want to see which
memorandum comes first.'

He had now wrought himself into a state of
excitement, which relieved his Spirits of the
depression that had weighed on them up to
this time. His harmless vanity, always, as I
suspect, a latent quality in his kindly nature,
had already restored his confidence. With a
self-sufficient smile, he consulted his own unintelligible
entries, and made his own wild
discoveries. , . • .

'Ah, yes; '" M " stands for Minister; I
come first. Am I to blame ? Am I —

god forgive me my many sins — am I heartless
? Am I deceitful ?'

My good friend, not even your enemies
could say that I'

Thank you. AVho comes next T He
consulted the book again. ' Her mother, lier
sainted mother, comes next. People say she
is like her mother. AVas my wife heartless ?
Was the angel of my life deceitful ?'

(that,' I thought to myself, 'is exactly
Avhat your wife was — and exactly what reappears
in your wife's child')

Where does her wickedness come from ?'
he went on. ' Xot from her mother ; not
from me ; not from a neglected education.'
He suddenly stepped up to me, and laid his
hands on my shoulders ; his voice dropped to
hoarse, moaning, awe-struck tones. ' Shall I
tell you what it is ? A possession of the devil.'

It was so evidently desirable to prevent any
continuation of such a train of thouiidit as

this, that I could feel no hesitation in interrupting
him.

AVill you hear what 1 have to say ?' I
asked bluntly.

His humour chant-ed a<2:ain ; he made me a
low bow, and went back to his chair. ' I will
hear you with pleasure.' he answered politely.
You are the most eloquent man I know, with
one exception — myself. Of course — myself.'

It is mere waste of time,' I continued, ' to
reset the excellent education which your
daughter has misused.' Making that reply,
I was tempted to add another word of truth.
All education is at the mercy of two powerful
counter-influences : the influence of temperament,
and the influence of circumstances.
I)Ut this was philosophy. How could I expect
him to submit to philosophy ? ' AVhat
we know of ]\Iiss Helena I went on, must
be enough for us. She has plotted, and she
means to succeed. Stop her.'

Just m\' idea !' he declared firmly. ' I
refuse my consent to that abominable marriage.'

In the popular phrase, I struck while the
iron was hot. ' You must do more than that,
sir,' I told him.

His vanity suddenly took the alarm — I was
leading him rather too undisguisedly. Pie
handed his book back to me. ' You will find
he said loftily, ' that I have jut it all down
there.'

I pretended to find it, and read an imaginary
entry to this effect : • After what she has
already done, Helena is capable of marrying
In defiance of my wishes and commands.
This must be considered, and provided against.'
So far, I had succeeded in flattering him.
lout when (thinking of his paternal authority)
I alluded next to his daughter's age, his eyes
rested on me with a look of downright terror.

Xo more of that I' he said. ' I won't talk
of the girls' ages even with you.'

AVliat did he mean ? It was useless to ask.
I went on with the matter in hand — still
deliberately speaking to him, as I might have
spoken to a man with an intellect as clear
as my own. In my experience, this practice
generally stimulates a weak intelligence to do
its best. AYe all know how children receive
talk that is lowered, or books that are lowered,
to their presumed level.

^ I shall take it for granted I continued,
^ that bliss Helena is still under your lawful
authority. She can only arrive at her ends by
means of a runaway marriage. In that case,
much depends on the man. You told me you
couldn't help liking him. This was, of course,
before you knew of the infamous manner in
which he has behaved. You must have
changed your opinion now.'

He seemed to be at a loss how to reply. ' I
am afraid,' he said, ' the young man was
drawn into it by Helena.'

:>:>

Here was Miss Jillgall's apology for Philip)
Danboyne repeated in other words. Despising
and detesting the fellow as I did, I was forced
to admit to myself that he must be recommended
by personal attractions which it would
be necessary to reckon with. I tried to get
some more information from mr. (Jracedieu.

The excuse you have just made for him,' I
resumed, ' implies that he is a weak man :
easily persuaded, easily led.'

The Minister answered by nodding his
head.

Such weakness as that,' I persisted, ' is a
vice in itself It has led already, sir, to the
saddest results.'

He admitted this by another nod.

I don't wish to shock you, l\Ir. Gracedieu ;
but I must recommend employing the means
that present themselves. You must practise
on this man's weakness, for the sake of the
good that may come of it. I hear he is in

London with his father. Try the strong:
influence, and write to his whither. There is
another reason besides for doing' this. It is
quite possible that the truth has been concealed
from Mr. Dunboyne the elder. Take
care that he is informed of what has really
happened. Are you looking for pen. ink, and
paper ? Let me offer you the writing materials
which I use in travelling.*

I placed them before him. He took up the
pen ; he arranged the paper ; he was eager to
begin.

After writing a few words, he stopped —
reflected — tried again — stopped again — tore up
the little that he had done — and began a new
letter, ending in the same miserable result.
It was impossible to witness his helplessness,
to see how pitiably patient he was oyer his
own incapacity, and to let the melancholy
spectacle go on. I proposed to write the
letter ; authenticating it, of course, by his signature.

When lie allowed me to take the ]pen,
lie turned away his face, ashamed to let me see
what he suffered. Was this the same man,
whose great nature had so nobly asserted
itself in the condemned cell ? Poor mortality
!

The letter was easily written.

I had only to inform ^\\\ Dunboyne of his
son's conduct ; repeating, in the plainest
lano:ua£(e that I could use, what Miss Jill<2^all
had related to me. Arrived at the conclusion,
I contrived to make mr. Gracedieu express
himself in these strong terms : ' I protest
against the marriage in justice to you, sir, as
well as to myself. We can neither of us
consent to be accomplices in an act of domestic
treason of the basest kind.'

In silence, the sinister read the letter, and
attached his signature to it. In silence, he
rose and took my arm. I asked if he wished
to go to his room. He only replied by a

sign. I offered to sit with him, and try to
cheer him. Gratefully, he pressed my hand :
gently, he put me back from the door.
Crushed by the miserable discovery of the
decay of his own faculties ! AVhat could I
do ? what could I say ? Xo thing I

Miss Jilln^all was in the drawing-room.
AYith the necessary explanations, I showed
her the letter. She read it with breathless
interest. * It terrifies one to think how much
depends on old Mr. Dunboyne,' she said.
You know him. ^Vhat sort of man is he ?'

I could only assure her (after what I remembered
of his letter to me) that he was a
man whom we could depend upon.

Miss Jillgall possessed treasures of information
to which I could lay no claim. Mr.
Dunboyne, she told me, was a scholar, and
a writer, and a rich man. His views on
marriage were liberal in the extreme. Let

his son find good principles, good temper, and
good looks, in a wife, and he would promise
to find the money.

I get these particulars,' said ]\Iiss Jillgall,
from dear Euneece. They are surely encouraging
? That Helena may carry out I\Ir.
Dunhoyne's views in lier personal appearance
is, I regret to say, what I can't deny. But as
to the other qualifications, how hopeful is the
prospect! Good principles, and good temper?
Ha I ha I Helena has the principles of Jezebel,
and the temper of Lady macbeth.'

After dashing' off this striking: sketch of
character, the fair artist asked to look at my
letter again, and observed that the address
was wanting'. ' I can set this ri<]^ht for you,'
she resumed, ' thanks, as before, to my sweet
Euneece. xVnd (don't be in a hurry) I can
make myself useful in another way. Oh, how
I do enjoy making myself useful I If you
trust your letter to the basket in the hall,

Helena's lovely eyes — capable of the meanest
conceivable actions — are sure to take a peep at
the address. In that case, do you think your
letter would get to London ? I am afraid you
detect a faint infusion of s[)itefulncss in that
question. Oh, for shame I I'll post the letter
myself.'

THE SHAMELESS SISTER.

For some reason, which my unassisted penetration
was unable to discover, Miss Helena
Gracedieu kept out of my way.

At dinner, on the day of my arrival, and at
breakfast on the next morning, she was present
of course ; ready to make herself agreeable ina
modest way, and provided with the necessary
supply of cheerful small-talk. But the meal
having come to an end, she had her domestic
excuse ready, and unostentatiously disappeared
like a well-bred youn!x lady. I never met heron
the stairs, never found myself intruding' on

7 »/ O

her in the drawing-room, never caught her
VOL. ir. 29

getting out of mj ^vay in the garden. As
much at a loss for an expiation of these
mysteries as I was. Miss Jillgall's interest in
my welfare led lier to caution me in a vague
and general way.

Take my word for it, dear Mr. Governor,
she has some design on you. Will you allow
an insignificant old maid to offer a suii'srestion?
Oh, thank you ; I will venture to advise.
Please look back at your experience of the
very worst female prisoner you ever had to
deal with — and be bruited according if
Helena catches you at a private interview.'

In less than half an hour afterwards, Helena
caught me. I was writing in my room, when
the maidservant came in with a message :
'• Miss Helena's compliments, sir, and would
you please spare her half an hour, downstairs
?'

My first excuse was of course that I was
engaged. This was disposed of by a second

message, provided beforehand, no doubt, for
rei anticipated refusal : ' Miss Helena wished
nie to say, sir, that her time is your time.' I
•\vas still obstinate ; I pleaded next that
my day was filled np. A third message had
evidently been prepared, even for this emergency
: ^ Miss Helena will regret, sir, having
the pleasure deferred, but lie will leave you to
make your own appointment for tomorrow.'
Persistency so inveterate as this led to a result
which Mr. Gracedieu's cautious daughter had
not perhaps contemplated : it put me on my
U'uard. There seemed to be a chance, to sav
the least of ir, that I might serve Eunice's
interests if I discovered what the enemy had
to say. I locked up my writing— declared
myself incapable of putting bliss Helena to
needless inconvenience — and followed the maid
to the lower floor of the house.

The room to which I was conducted proved
to be empty. I looked round me.

20—2

\{ I had been told that a man lived there
who was absolutely indifferent to appearances,
I should have concluded that his views were
faithfully represented by his place of abode.
The chairs and tables reminded me of a rail-away
waiting-room. The shabby little bookcase
was the mute record of a life indifferent
to literature. The carpet was of that dreadful
drab colour, still the cherished favourite of
the average English mind, in spite of every
protest that can be entered against it, on behalf
of Art. The ceiling, recently whitewashed,
made my eyes ache when they looked
at it. On either side of the window, flaccid
green curtains hung helplessly with nothing
to loop them up. The writing-desk and the
paper-case, viewed as specimens of woodwork,
recalled the ready-made bedrooms on show in
cheap shops. The books, mostly in slate-coloured
bindings, were devoted to the Literature
which is called religious ; I only discovered

three worldly publications among tlieni —
Domestic Cookery, Etiquette for Ladies, and
Hints on the Breeding of Poultry. An ugly
little clock, ticking' noisily in a black case, and
two candlesticks of base metal placed on either
side of it, completed the ornaments on the
chimney-piece. Xeither pictures nor prints
hid the barrenness of the walls. I saw no
needlework and no flowers. The one object *
in the place which showed any pretensions to
beauty was a looking-glass in an elegant gilt
frame — sacred to vanity, and worthy of the
office that it filled. Such was Helena Grace-dieu's
sitting-room. I really could not help
thinking: : How like her !

She came in with a face perfectly adapted
to the circumstances — pleased and smiling ;
amiably deferential, in consideration of the
claims of her father's guest — and, to my surprise,
in some degree suggestive of one of
those incorrigible female prisoners, to whom

]^Iiss Jillgall had referred me when she offered
a word of advice.

Plow kind of you to come so soon ! Excuse
my receiving you in my housekeeping-room
; we shall not be interrupted here. Very
plainly furnished, is it not ? I dislike ostentation
and display. Ornaments are out of
place in a room devoted to domestic necessities.
I hate domestic necessities. You notice
the looking-glass ? It's a present. I should
never have put such a thing up. Perhaps my
vanity excuses it.'

She pointed the last remark by a look at
herself in the glass ; using it, while she
despised it. Yes : there Alas a handsome
face, paying her its reflected compliment — but
not so well matched as it might have been by
a handsome fissure. Her feet were too lahore ;
her shoulders were too high ; the graceful
undulations of a well-made girl were absent
when she walked ; and her bosom was, to mv

mind, unduly developed for her time of
life.

She sat down by me with her back to the
light. Happening to be opposite to the
window, I offered her the advantage of a
clear view of my face. She waited for me,
and I waited for her — and there was an
awkward pause before we spoke. She set the
example.

Isn't it curious ?' she remarked. ^ When
two people have something particular to say
to each other, and nothing to hinder them,
they never seem to know how to say it. You
are the oldest, sir. Why don't you begin ?'

Because I have nothing particular to
say.'

In plain words, you mean that I must
beghi ?'

If you please.'

Very well. I want to know whether I
have given you (and Miss Jillgall, of course)

as much time as you want, and as many
opportunities as you could desire ?
Pray go on, Miss Helena.'
Have I not said enough already T
'• Xot enough, I regret to say, to convey
your meaning to me.'

She drew her chair a little farther away
from me. ' I am sadly disappointed,' she
said. * I had such a high opinion of your
perfect candour. I thought to myself, There is
such a striking expression of frankness in his
face. Another illusion gone ! I hope you
won't think I am offended, if I say a bold
word. I am only a young girl, to be sure ;
but I am not quite such a fool as you take me
for. Do you really think I don't know that
Miss Jillgall has been telling you everything
that is bad about me ; putting every mistake
that I have made, every fault that I have committed,
in the Avorst possible point of view ?
And you have listened to her — quite naturally !

And YOU are prejudiced, strongly prejudiced,
against nie — what else could you be, under
the circumstances ? I don't complain ; I have
purposely kept out of your Avay, and out of
Miss JillgalFs way ; in short, I have afforded
you every facility, as the prospectuses say. I
only want to know if my turn has come at
last. Once more, have I given you time
enough, and opportunities enough ?'

A <z'reat deal more than enough.'

Do you mean that you have made up
your mind about me without stopping to
think ?'

That is exactly what I mean. An act of
treachery, Miss Helena, is an act of treachery ;
no honest person need hesitate to condemn it.
I am sorry you sent for me.'

I got up to go. With an ironical gesture
of remonstrance, she signed to me to sit down
again.

lust I remind you, dear su, of our famous

native virtue ? Fair play is surely due to a
young person who has nobody to take her
part. You talked of treachery, just nov.
I deny the treachery. Please give me a
hearing.'

I returned to my chair.

Or would you prefer waiting,' she went on,
till my sister comes here later in the day, and
continues what Miss Jill^'all has besfun, with
the orreat advantage of beimr young; and nice-looking
?'

When the female mind gets into this state,
no wise man answers the female questions.

Am I to take silence as meaning'' Go on ?'

o

Miss Helena inquired.

I begged her to interpret my silence in the
sense most agreeable to herself

This naturally encouraged her. She made
a proposal : ' Do you mind changing places.

sir ?'

Just as you like. Miss Helena.'

AVc changed chairs ; the lii^lit now fell full
on her lace. Had she deliberately challenged
me to look into her secret mind if I could ?
Anything like the stark insensibility of that
young girl to every refinement of feeling, to
every becoming doubt of herself, to every
customary timidity of her age and sex in the
presence of a man who had not disguised his
unfavourable opinion of her, I never met within
all my experience of the world and of
women.

I wish to be quite mistress of myself she
explained ; ' your face, for some reason which
I really don't know, irritates me. The fact is,
I have great pride in keeping my temper.
Please make allowances. Xow about bliss
Jillgall. I suppose she told you how my
sister first met with Philip Dunboyne ?'

Yes.'

She also mentioned, perhaps, that he was

a hio'hlv- cultivated man ?'

She did.'

Xow we shall get on. AVhcn Philip came
to our town here, and saw me for the first
time — Do you object to my speaking familiarly
•of him, by his Christian name ?'

In the case of anyone else in your position,
Miss Helena, I should venture to call it bad
taste

I was provoked into saying that. It failed
entirely as a well-meant effort in the way of
implied reproof. Miss Helena smiled.

You grant me a liberty which you would
not concede to another girl.' That was how
she viewed it. ' We are getting on better
-already. To return to what I was saying.
When Philip first saw me — I have it from
himself, mind — he felt that I should have been
his choice, if he had met with me before
he met with my sister. Do you blame
him ?'

If you will take my advice,' I said, ' you

Avill not inquire too closely into my opinion of
]\[r. Philip Dunboyne.'

Perhaps you don't wish me to say anymore
?' she suo:<>'ested.

On the contrary; pray go on, if you like

After that concession, she was amiability
itself. ' Oh, yes,' she assured me, ' that's-easily
done.' And she went on accordingly
Philip having informed me of the state of his
affections, I naturally followed his example.
In flint, we exchanged confessions. Our
marriage engagement followed as a matter of
course. Do you blame me ?'

I will wait till you have done.'

I have no more to say.'

She made that amazing reply with such
perfect composure, that I began to fear there-must
have been some misunderstanding between
us. ' Is that really all you have to say
for yourself?' I persisted.

Her patience with me was most exemplary.

She lowered herself to my level. Xot trusting
to words only on this occasion, she (so to
say) beat her meaning into my head by
gesticulating' on her fino-hers, as if she was
educating a child.

Philip and I,' she began, ' are the victims
of an accident, which kept us apart when we
ouo'ht to have met too'etlier — we are not
responsible for an accident.' She impressed
this on me by touching her forefinger. ' Philip
and I fell in love with each other at first sight
we are not responsible for the feelings
implanted in our natures by an all wise Providence.'
She assisted me in understanding
this bv touching; her middle finger. ' Philip
and I owe a duty to each other, and accept a
responsibility under those circumstances — the
responsibility of getting married.' A touch
on her third finger, and an indulgent bow,
announced that the lesson was ended. ^ I am
not a clever man like you,' she modestly

acknowledged, 'but I ask you to help us,
when you next see my father, with some
confidence. You know exactly what to say
to him, by this time. Nothing has been
forgotten.'

Pardon me,' I said, ' a person has been forgotten.'


Indeed ? What person ?'

Your sister.'

A little perplexed at first, Miss Helena
reflected, and recovered herself.

Ah, yes,' she said ; ' I was afraid I might
be obliged to trouble you for an explanation —
I see it now. You are shocked (very properly)
when feelings of enmity exist between
near relations ; and you wish to be assured
that 1 bear no malice towards Eunice. She is
violent, she is sulky, she is stupid, she is
selfish ; and she cruelly refuses to live in the
same house with me. Make your mind easy,
sir, I forgive my sister.'

Let me not attempt to disguise it — Miss
Helena Gracedieu confounded me.

Ordinary audacity is one of those forms of
insolence which mature experience dismisses
with contempt. This girl's audacity struck
down all resistance, for one shocking reason :
it was unquestionably sincere. Strong conviction
of her own virtue stared at me in her
proud and daring eyes. At that time, I was
not aware of what I have learned since. The
horrid hardening of her moral sense had been
accomplished by herself In her diary, there
has been found the confession of a secret course
of reading — with supplementary reflections
flowing from it, which need only to be described
as worthy of their source.

A person capable of repentance and reform
would, in her place, have seen that she had
disgusted me. Xot a suspicion of this occurred
to ]\Iiss Helena. ' I see you are embarrassed,'
she remarked, ' and I am at no loss to account

for it. You are too polite to acknowledge
that I have not made a friend of you yet. Oh,
I mean to do it !'

Xo/ I said, ' I think not.'

AVe shall see,' she replied. ' Sooner or
later, you will find yourself saying a kind word
to my father for Philip and me.' She rose,
and took a turn in the room — and stopped,
eyeing me attentively. ' Are you thinking of
Eunice ?' she asked.

Yes

^ She has your sympathy, I suppose ?*

My heart felt sympathy.'

I needn't ask how I stand in your estimation,
after that. Pray express yourself freely.
Your looks confess it — you view me with
a feeling of aversion.'

I view you with a feeling of horror.'

The exasperating influences of her language,
her looks, and her tones would, as I venture to
think, have got to the end of another man's

VOL. II. 30

self-control before this. Any pray, she had at
last irritated me into speaking as strongly as I
felt. AVhat I said had been so plainly (perhaps
so rudely) expressed, that misinterpretation
of it seemed to be impossible. She mistook
me, nevertheless. The most merciless disclosure
of the dreary side of human destiny is
surely to be found in the failure of words,
spoken or written, so to answer their purpose
that we can trust them, in our attempts to
communicate with each other. Even when he
seems to be connected, by the nearest and
dearest relations, with his fellow-mortals, what
a solitary creature, tried by the test of sympathy,
the human being really is in the teeming;
world that he inhabits ! Affording one
more example of the impotence of human
language to speak for itself, my misinterpreted
words had found their way to the one sensitive
place in Helena Gracedieu's impenetrable
nature. She betrayed it in the quivering and

flushing of her liard face, and in the appeal to
the lookinii'-gLass which escaped her eyes the
next moment. ]\Iy hasty reply had roused
the idea of a covert insult addressed to her
handsome face. Tn other words, I had wounded
lier vanity. Driven by resentment, out came
the secret distrust of me which had been 
in that cold heart, from the moment when
we "first met.

I inspire you with horror, and Eunice
inspires you with compassion,' she said. ' That,
Mr. Governor, is not natural.'

:pray I ask why ?'

You know why.'

'Xo.'

You will have it ?'

I want an explanation. Miss Helena, if that
is what you mean.'

Take your explanation, then ! Y^'ou are
not the stranger you are said to be to mv
sister and to me. Your interest in Eunice is

30—2

a personal interest of some kind. I don't
pretend to guess ^vhat it is. As for myself, it
is plain that somebody else has been setting
YOU against me, before ]\Iiss Illo-all o-ot
possession of your private ear.'
In alluding to Eunice, she had blundered,
strangely enough, on something like the truth.
But when she spoke of herself, the headlong
malignity of her suspicions — making every
allowance for the anger that had hurried her
into them — seemed to call for some little protest
against a false assertion. I told her that
she was completely mistaken.

I am completely right,' she answered : ' I
saw it.'

Saw what ?'

Saw you pretending to be a stranger to me.'
When did I do that ?'

You did it when we met at the station.'
The reply was too ridiculous for the preservation
of any control over m^^ own sense

of humour. It was wrong ; but it was inevitable
— I laughed. She looked at me with a
fury, revealing a concentration of evil passion
in her which I had not seen yet. I asked her
pardon ; I begged her to think a little before
she persisted in taking a view of my conduct
unworthy of her, and unjust to myself.

unjust to You I' she burst out. 'Who
are You ? A man who has driven your trade
has spies always at his command — yes ! and
knows how to use them. You were primed
with private information — you had, for all I
know, a stolen photograph of me in your
pocket — before ever you came to our town.
Do you still deny it ? Oh, sir, why degrade
yourself by telling a lie ?'

Xo such outrage as this had ever been
inflicted on me, at any time in my life, sly
forbearance must, I suppose, have been more
severely tried than I was aware of myself.
With or without excuse for me, I. was weak

enough to let a gifts spiteful tongue sting me,
and, worse still, to let her see that I felt it.

You shall have no second opportunity,
Miss Gracedieu, of insulting me.' With that
foolish reply, I opened the door violently, and
went out.

She ran after me, triumphing in having
roused the temper of a man old enough to
have been her grandfather, and caught me by
the arm. ' Your own conduct has exposed
you.' (That was literally how she expressed
herself) ' I saw it in your eyes when we
met at the station. You, the stranger — you
who allowed poor ignorant me to introduce
myself — you knew me all the time, knew me
by sight !'

I shook her hand off with an inconsiderate
roughness, humiliating to remember. 'It's
false I' I cried. ' I knew you by your likeness
to your mother.'

The moment the words had passed my liss,

I came to mv senses a2:aLn ; I remembered
^vhat fatal words they might prove to be, if
they reached the sinister's ears.

Heard only by his daughter, my reply
seemed to cool the heat of her anger in an
instant.

So you knew my mother ?' she said. * My
father never told us that, when he spoke of
your being such a very old friend of estranged
to say the least of it.'

I was wise enough — now when wisdom had
come too late — not to attempt to explain
myself, and not to give Lier an opportunity
of saying more. ' AVe are neither of us in a
state of mind,' I answered, ' to allow this
interview to continue. I must try to recover
my composure ; and I leave you to do the
same.'

In the solitude of my room, I was able to
look my position fairly in the f\ice.

Mr. Gracedieu's wife had come to me, in the

long-past time, without her husband's knowledge.
Tempted to a cruel resolve by the
maternal triumph of having an infant of her
own, she had resolved to rid herself of the
]poor little rival in her husband's fatherly
affection, by consigning the adopted child to
the keeping of a charitable asylum. She had
dared to ask me to help her. I had kept the
secret of her shameful visit — I can honestly
sav, for the Minister's sake. And now, long;
after time had doomed those events to oblivion,
they were revived — and revived by me.
Thanks to my folly, Mr. Gracedieu's daughter
knew what I had concealed from Mr. Grace-dieu
himself

What course did respect for my friend, and
respect for myself, counsel me to take ?

I could only see before me a choice of two
evils. To wait for events — with the too
certain prospect of a vindictive betrayal of my
indiscretion bv Helena Gracedieu. Or to take

the initiative into my own hands, and risk
consequences Which I might regret to the end
of my life, by making my confession to the
Minister.

Before I had decided, somebody knocked at
the door. It was the maid-servant again.
Alas it possible she had been sent by Helena ?

Another message ?'

Yes, sir. My master wishes to see you.'

THE girls' ages.

Had the Minister's desire to see me been
inspired by his daughter's betrayal of what I
lead unfortunately said to her ? Although he
would certainly not consent to receive her
personally, she would be at liberty to adopt a
written method of communication with him,
and the letter mio-ht be addressed in such a
manner as to pique his curiosity. If Helena's
vindictive purpose had been already accomplished
— and if Mr. Gracedieu left me no
alternative but to present his unworthy wife
in her true character — I can honestly say that
I dreaded the consequences, not as they might

affect myself, but as they might affect my
unhappy friend in his enfeebled state of body
and mind.

When I entered his room, he was still in bed.

The bed-curtains were so drawn, on the
side nearest to the window, as to keep the
light from falling too brightly on his weak
eyes. In the shadow thus thrown on him, it
was not possible to see his face plainly enough,
from the open side of the bed, to arrive at
any definite conclusion as to what might be
passing in his mind. After having been
awake for some hours during the earlier part
of the night, he had enjoyed a long and undisturbed
sleep. ' I feel stronger this morning,'
he said, ' and I wish to speak to you
while my mind is clear.'

If the quiet tone of his voice was not an
assumed tone, he was surely ignorant of all
that had passed between his daughter and
myself. ^

'Eunice will be here soon he proceeded,
and I ought to explain why I have sent for
her to come and meet you. I have reasons,
serious reasons, mind, for wishing you to
compare her personal appearance with Helena's
personal appearance, and then to tell me which
of the two, on a fair comparison, looks the
oldest. Pray bear in mind that I attach the
greatest importance to the conclusion at which
you may arrive

He spoke more clearly and collectedly than
I had heard him speak yet.

Here and there I detected hesitations and
repetitions, which I have purposely passed
over. The substance of what he said to me is
all that I shall present in this place. Careful
as I have been to keep my record of events
within strict limits, I have written at a length
which I was far indeed from contemplating
when I accepted ]mr. Gracedieu's invitation.

Having promised to comply with the strange

request which he had addressed to me, I
ventured to remind him of past occasions
on which he had pointedly abstained, when
the subject presented itself, from speaking of
the girls' ages. ' You have left it to my
discretion,' I added, "' to decide a question in
which you are seriously interested, relating
to your daughters. Have I no excuse for
regretting that I have not been admitted to
your confidence a little more freely ?'

You have every excuse,' he answered.
But you trouble me all the same. There
was something else that I had to say to you —
and your curiosity gets in the way.'

He said this with a sullen emphasis. In
my position, the worst of evils was suspense.
I told him that my curiosity could wait ; and
I begged that he would relieve his mind of
what was pressing on it at the moment.

Let me think a little,' he said.

I waited anxiously for the decision at which

he might arrive. Nothing came of it to justify
my misgivings. ' Leave what I have in my
mind to ripen in my mind he said. ' The
mystery about the girls' ages seems to irritate
you. If I put my good friend's temper to
any further trial, he will be of no use to me.
Xever mind if my head swims ; I'm used to
that. Xow listen !'

Strange as the preface was, the explanation
that followed was stranger yet. I offer a
shortened and simplified version, giving accurately
the substance of what I heard.

The Minister entered without reserve on
the mysterious subject of the ages. Eunice,
he informed me, was nearly two years older
than Helena. If she outwardly showed her
superiority of age, any person acquainted with
the circumstances under which the adopted
infant had been received into Mr. Gracedieu's
childless household, need only compare the
so-called sisters in after-life, and would thereupon

identify the eldest-looking young lady
of the two as the offspring of the woman who
had been hanged for murder. AVith such a
misfortune as this presenting itself as a possible
prospect, the Minister was bound to prevent
the girls from ignorantly betraying each other
by allusions to their ages and their birthdays.
After much thought, he had devised a desperate
means of meeting the difficulty — already
made known, as I am told, for the information
of strangers \\\\o may read the pages that have
gone before mine. My friend's plan of proceeding
had, by the nature of it, exposed him
to injurious comment, to embarrassing questions,
and to doubts and misconceptions, all
patiently endured in consideration of the
security that had been attained. Proud of
his explanation, Mr. Gracedieu's vanity called
upon me to acknowledge that my curiosity
had been satisfied, and my doubts completely
set at rest.

No : my obstinate common sense was not
reduced to submission, even yet. Looking
back over a lapse of seventeen years, I asked
what had happened, in that long interval, to
justify the anxieties which still appeared to
trouble my friend.

This time, my harmless curiosity could be
gratified by a reply expressed in three words
nothing had happened.

Then what, in Heaven's name, was the
Minister afraid of ?

His voice dropped to a whisper. He said :
^ I am afraid of the women.'

Who were the women ?

Two of them actually proved to be the
servants employed in Mr. Gracedieu's house,
at the bygone time when he had brought the
child home with him from the prison ! To
point out the absurdity of the reasons that he
gave for fearing what female curiosity might
yet attempt, if circumstances happened to encourage

it, would have been a mere Avast of
words. Dismissing the subject, I next ascertained
that the Minister's dcnibts extended
even to the two female warders, who had been
appointed to watch the murderess in turn,
during lier Last days in prison. I easily relieved
his mind in this case. One of the
warders was dead. The other had married
a former in Australia. Had we exhausted the
list of suspected persons yet ? Xo : tlierc
was one more left ; and the sinister declared
that he had first met with her in my official
residence, at the time when I was Governor of
the prison.

She presented herself to me by name.' he

said ; ' and she spoke rudely. A bliss '

He paused to consult this memory, and this
time (thanks perhaps to his night's rest) his
memory answered the appeal. ' I have got
it !' he cried — 'Miss Chance.'

My friend lead interested me in his imagin-vol.

II. 31

mary perils at last. It was just possible that
he might have a formidable person to deal
With now.

Dining my residence at Florence, the Chaplain
and I had taken many a retrospective
look (as old men will) at past events in our
lives. ]\Iy former colleague spoke of the time
when he had performed clerical duty for his
friend, the rector of a parish church in London.
Xeither he nor I had heard again of the ' ]mischance
' of our disagreeable prison experience,
whom he had married to the dashing Dutch
gentleman, ]mr. Tenbruggen. AYe could only
wonder what had become of that mysterious
married pair.

Mr. Gracedieu being undoubtedly ignorant
of the woman's marriage, it was not easy to
say what the consequence might be, in his
excitable state, if I informed him of it. lie
would, in all probability, conclude that I
knew more of the woman than he did. I

decided on keeping my own counsel, for the
present at least.

Passing' at once, therefore, to the one consideration
of any importance, I endeavoured
to find out whether Mr. Gracedieu and Mrs.
Tenbrug'gen had met, or had communicated
with each other in any wav, during: the lomax
period of separation that had taken place between
the Minister and myself. If he had
been so unlucky as to offend her, she was
beyond all doubt an enemy to be dreaded.
Apart, however, from a misfortune of this
kind, she would rank, in my opinion, with
the other harmless objects of ]mr. Gracedieu's
morbid distrust.

In making my inquiries, I found that I had
an obstacle to contend with.

Awhile he felt the renovating influence of
the repose that he enjoyed, the Minister had
been able to think and to express himself
with less difficulty than usual. Ikit the reserves

of strength, on which the useful exercise
of his memory depended, began to fail
him as the interview proceeded. He distinctly
recollected that ' something unpleasant had
passed between that audacious woman and
himself.' But at what date — and whether by
Avoid of mouth or by correspondence — was
more than his memor' could now recall. He
believed he was not mistaken in telling; me
that he ' had been in two minds about her.'
At one time, he was satisfied that he had
taken wise measures for his owji security, if
she attempted to annoy him. Ikit there was
another and a later time, when doubts and
fears had laid hold of him again. If I wanted
to know how this had happened, he fancied it
was through a dream ; and if I asked what
the dream was, he could only beg and pray
that I would spare his poor head.

Unwilling' even vet to submit unconditionally
to defeat, it occurred to me to try a last

experiment on mv friend, without calling" for
any mental effort on his OAvn part. The
Miss Chance ' of former clays misfht, by a
bare possibility, have written to him. \
asked accordingly if he was in the habit of
keeping his letters, and if he would allow me
(when he had rested a little) to lay them open
before him, so that he could look at the signatures.
' You might find the lost recollection
in that way I suggested, ' at the bottom of
one of your letters.' . .

He was in that state of weariness, poor
fellow, in which a man will do anything for
the sake of peace. Pointing to a cabinet in
his room, he gave me a key taken from a little
basket on his bed. ' Look for yourself,' he
said. After some hesitation — for I naturally
recoiled from examining another man's correspondence
— I decided on opening the cabinet,
at any rate.

The letters — a larij-e collection — were, to

my relief, all neatly folded, and endorsed with
the names of the writers. I could run harmlessly
through bundle after bundle in search
of the one name that I wanted, and still respect
the privacy of the letters. My perseverance
deserved a reward — and failed to get it.
The name I wanted steadily eluded my search.
Arriving at the upper shelf of the cabinet, I
found it so high that I could barely reach
it with my hand. Instead of getting more
letters to look over, I pulled down two newspapers.


One of them was an old copy of The Times,
dating back as flu as the loth December, 1858.
It was carefully folded, longwise, with the
title-page uppermost. On the first column, at
the left-hand side of the sheet, appeared the
customary announcements of Births. A mark
with a blue pencil, against one of the advertisements,
attracted my attention. I read these
lines :

'On the loth inst., the Avise of the Rev. Abel
Gracedieu, of a (kui2'hter.'

The second newspaper bore a hater date,
nd contained nothing that interested me. I
naturally assumed that the advertisement in
The Times had been inserted at the desire of
Mrs. Gracedieu ; and, after all that I had
heard, there was little difficulty in attributing
the curious omission of the place in which the
child had been born to the caution of her
husband. Tf sirs. Tenbruggen (then miss
Chance) had happened to see the advertisement
in the great London newspaper, mr.
Gracedieu might yet have good reason to congratulate
himself on his prudent method of
providing against mischievous curiosity.

I turned towards the bed and looked at him.
His eyes were closed. AVas he sleeping ? Or
was he trying to remember what he lead
desired to say to me, when the demands which

I made on his memory had obliged him to
wait for a later opportunity ?

Either way, there was something that
quickened my sympathies, in the spectacle of
his helpless repose. It suggested to me
personal reasons for his anxieties, Trhicli he
lead not mentioned, and which I had not
thought of, up to this time. If the discovery
that lie dreaded took ]place, his household
would be broken up, and his position as
pastor would suffer in the estimation of the
flock. His own daughter would refuse to live
under the same roof with the daughter of an
infamous woman. Popular opinion, among
his congregation, judging a man who had
passed off the child of other parents as his own,
Avould hind that man guilty of an act of deliberate
deceit.

Still oppressed by reflections which pointed
to the future in this discouraging way, I was

startled hj a voice outside the door — a sweet
sad voice — saying, ' May I come in ?'

The Minister's eyes opened instantly ; he
raised himself in his bed.

Eunice at last I' he cried. ' Let her in

THE ADOPTED CHILD.

I OPENED the door.

Eunice passed me with the suddenness almost
of a flash of lio;ht. AVhen I turned towards
the bed, her arms were round her father's neck.
Oh, poor Papa, how ill you look !' Commonplace
expressions of fondness, and no more ;
but the tone gave them a charm that subdued
me. Never had I felt so indulgent towards Mr.
Gracedieu's unreasonable fears as when I saw
him in the embrace of his adopted daughter.
She had already reminded me of the bygone
day when a bright little child had sat on my
knee and listened to the ticking of my watch.

The Minister gently lifted her head from his
breast. ' sly darling,' he said, ' you don't see
my old friend. Love him, and look up to him,
Eunice. He will be your friend too, when I
am gone.'

She came to me and offered her cheek to be
kissed. It was sadly pale, poor soul — and I
could guess why. jut her heart was now full
of her father. ' Do you think he is seriously
ill ?' she Whispered. What I ought to have
said I don't know. Her eyes, the sweetest,
truest, loveliest eyes I ever saw in a human
face, were pleading with me. Let my enemies
make the worst of it, if they like — I did certainly
lie. And if I deserved my punishment,
I got it ; the poor child believed me ! ' Xow
1 am happier,' she said gratefully. ' Only to
hear your voice seems to encourage me. On
our wav here, Selina did notiiimr but talk of
you. She told me I shouldn't have time to
feel afraid of the great man ; he would make

me fond of him directly. I said, " Are you
fond of him'' She said, "Madly in love ^vith
him, my dear." sly little friend really thinks
you like her, and is very proud of it. There
are some people who call her ugly. I hope
you don't agree with them?'

I believe I should have lied again, if Mr.
Gracedieu had not called me to the bedside.

How does she strike you ?' he whispered
easterly. ' Is it too soon to ask if she shows
her age in her face ?'

Xeither in her face nor her figure I
answered ; ' it astonishes me that you can
ever have doubted it. Xo stranger, iudoiDo-
by personal appearance, could fail to snake the
mistake of thinking Helena the oldest of the
two.'

He looked fondly at Eunice. ' Her figure
seems to bear out what you say,' he went on.
Almost childish, isn't it ?'

I could not agree to that. Slim, supple,

simply graceful in every movement, Eunice's
figure, in the charm of first youth, only waited
its perfect development. Most men, looking
at her as she stood at the other end of the
room with her back towards us, would have
Guessed her au'e to be sixteen.

Finding that I failed to agree with him, ]\[r.
Gracedieu's misgivings returned. ' You speak
very confidently,' he said, ' considering that
you have not seen the girls together. Think
what a dreadful blow it would be to me if you
made a mistake.'

I declared, with perfect sincerity, that there
was no fear of a mistake. The bare idea of
making the proposed comparison was hateful
to me. If Helena and I had happened to meet
at that moment, I should have turned away
from her by instinct — she would have disturbed
my impressions of Eunice.

The Minister signed to me to move a little
nearer to him. ' I must say it,' he whispered.

and I am afraid of her hearing' me. Is there
anything in her face that reminds you of her
miserable mother ?'

I had hardly patience to answer the question:
it vas simply preposterous. Her hair was by
many shades darker than her mother's hair ;
her eyes were of a different colour. There was
an exquisite tenderness and sincerity in their
expression — made additionally beautiful, to
my mind, by a gentle uncomplaining sadness.
It was impossible even to think of the eyes of
the murderess when I looked at her child.
Eunice's lower features, again, had none of her
mothers regularity of proportion. Her smile,
simple and sweet, and soon passing away, was
certainly not an inherited smile on the maternal
side. Whether she resembled her father, I was
unable to conjecture — having never seen him.
The one thing certain was, that not the faintest
trace, in feature or expression, of Eunice's
mother was to be seen in Eunice herself Of

the two girls, Helena — judging by something
in the colour of her hair, and by something in
the shade of her complexion — might possibly
have suggested, in those particulars only, a
purely accidental resemblance to my terrible
prisoner of past times.

The revival of Mr. Gracedieu's spirits indicated
a temporary change only, and was
already beginning to pass away. The eyes
which had looked lovingly at Eunice began
to look languidly now : his head sank on the
pillow with a sigh of weak content. ' My
pleasure has been almost too much for me,'
he said. ' Leave me for a while to rest, and
get used to it.'

Eunice kissed his forehead — and we left the
room.

THE BRUISED IIEAKT.

When we .stepped out on the landing, I
observed that my companion ]paused. She
looked at the two flights of stairs below us
]before she descended them. It occurred tome
that there must be somebody in the house
whom she was anxious to avoid.

Arrived at the lower hall, she paused again,
and proposed in a whisper that we should go
into the garden. As we advanced along the
backward division of the hall, 1 saw her eyes
turn distrustfully towards the door of the
room in which Helena had received me. At
last, my slow ]perceptions felt with her and

understood lier. Eunice's sensitive nature
recoiled from a chance meeting with the
wretch, who had laid waste all that had once
been happy and hopeful in that harmless young
life.

AVill you come with me to the part of the
garden that I am fondest off ?' she asked.

I offered her my arm. She led me in silence
to a rustic seat, placed under the shade of a
mulberry tree. I saw a change in her face as
we sat down — a tender and beautiful change.

o

At that moment, the girl's heart was far away
from me. There was some association with
this corner of the garden, on which I felt that
I must not intrude.

I was once very happy here,' she said.
When the time of the heartache came soon
after, I was afraid to look at the old tree and
the bench under it. lout that is all over now.
I like to remember the hours that were once
dear to me, and to see the place that recalls

VOL. II. 32

them. Do you know who I am thinking of?
Don't be afraid of distressing: me. I never
cry now.'

My dear chili, I have heard your sad story
• — but I can't trust myself to speak of it.'
Because you are so sorry for me ?'
^ Xo words can say how sorry I am I'
^ But you are not angry with Philip ?'
Xot angry I My poor dear, I am afraid
to tell you how angry I am with him.'

Oh, no I You mustn't say that. If 3'ou
wish to be kind to me — and I am sure you do
wish it — don't think bitterly of Philip.'

When I remember that the first feeling she
roused in me was nothing worthier of a professing
Christian than astonishment, I drop in
my own estimation to the level of a savage.
Do you really mean,' I was base enough to
ask, ' that you have forgiven him ?'

She said gently : ' How could I help for-minis:
l^i^i ?'

The man avIio could have been hest With
such love as this, and who could have cast it
away from him, can have been nothing but an
idiot. On that ground — though I dared not
confess it to Eunice — I forgave him too.

Do I surprise you ?' she asked simply.
Perhaps love will ]pear any humiliation. Or
perhaps I am only a poor weak creature. You
don't know what a comfort it was to me to
keep the few letters that I received from
Philip. AVhen I heard that he had gone
away, I gave his letters the kiss that bade him
good-bye. That was the time, I think, when
my poor bruised heart got used to the pain ;
I began to feel that there was one consoLation
still left for me — I mio'ht end in fori>'ivinL!; him.
Why do I tell you all this ? I think you
must have bewitched mc. Is this really the
first time I have seen you .^'

She put her little trembling hand into mine ;
I lifted it to my lips, and kissed it. Sorely

Alas I tempted to own that I had pitied and
loved lier in lier infancy. It Alas almost on
my lips to say : ' I remember you an easily-pleased
little creature, amusing yourself with
the broken toys which were once the playthings
of my own children.' I believe I
should have said it, if I could have trusted
myself to speak composedly to her. This was
not to be done. Old as I was, versed as I
was in the hard knowledge of how to keep the
mask on in the hour of need, this vnMs not to
be done.

Still trvinc: to understand that I was little
better than a stranger to her, and still benton
finding the secret of the sympathy that
united us, Eunice put a strange cohesion tome.


AVhen you were young yourself,' she said,
did you know what it was to love, and to beloved
— and then to lose it all X

It is not driven to many men to marry the

woman who has been the object of the' first
love. ^[y early life had been darkened by
a sad story ; never confided to any living
creature ; banished resolutely from my own
thoughts. For forty years past, that part of
mv buried self had lain quiet in its grave —
and the chance touch of an innocent hand
had raised the dead, and set us face to face
airain ! Did I know what it was to love, and
to be loved, and then to lose it all? ' Too
well, my child ; too well !'

That was all I could say to her. In the
last days of my life, I shrank from speaking
of it. When I had first felt that calamity,
and had felt it most keenly, I might have
given an answer worthier of me, and worthier
of her.

She dropped my hand, and sat by me in
silence, thinking. Had 1 — without meaning
it, God knows ! — had I disappointed her ?

Did you expect me to tell my own sad

story,' I said, ' as frankly and as trustfully as
you have told yours ?'

Oh, don't think that ! I know what an
effort it was to you to answer me at all. Yes,
indeed ! I wonder whether I may ask something.
The sorrow you have just told me of
is not the only one — is it ? You have had
other troubles ?'

]\Iany of them.'

'There are times,' she went on, 'when one
can't help thinking of one's own miserable self
T try to be cheerful, but those times come now
and then.'

She stopped, and looked at me with a pale
fear confessing itself in her face.

You know who Selina is ?' she resumed.
sly friend ! The only friend I had, till you
came here.'

I guessed that she was speaking of the quaint
kindly little woman, whose ugly' surname had
been hitherto the only name known to me.

Selina has, I dare say. told you that \ have
been ill,' she continued, 'and that I am staying'
in the country for the benefit of my health.'

It was plain that she had something to say
to me, far more important than tins, and that
she was dwelHnu' on trifles to o-ain time and
courage. Hoping to help her, J dwelt on
trifles too ; asking commonplace questions
about the part of the country in Aldrich she
was staying. She answered absently — then,
little by little, impatiently. The one poor
proof of kindness that I could osier, now, was
to say no more.

Do you know what a strange creature
I am ?' she broke out. ' Shall I make you
angry With me ? or shall I make you laugh
at me ? AVhat I have shrunk from confessing
to Selina — what I dare not confess to my
father — I must, and will, confess to You I'

There was a look of horror in her face that
alarmed me. I drew her to me so that she

could rest her head on my shoulder, ^[y own
agitation threatened to get the better of me.
For the first time since I had seen this sweet
o'irl, I found myself thinking of the blood
that ran in her veins, and of the nature of the
mother who had borne her.

Did you notice how I behaved upstairs ?'
she said. ' I mean when we left my father,
and came out on the landing.'

It was easily recollected ; I begged her to
^o on.

Before I went downstairs,' she proceeded,
you saw me look and listen. Did you think
I was afraid of meeting some person ? and did
you guess who it was I wanted to avoid ?'

I guessed that — and I understood you.'

Xo I You are not wicked enough to
understand me. Will you do me a favour ?
I want you to look at me.'

It was said seriously. She lifted her head
for a moment, so that I could examine her face.

• Do you see anytliin,^:,' she asked, ' which
makes you fear that I am not in my right
mind ?'

'Good God I ho^Y can you ask such a
horrible question ?'

She Laid her head back on my shoulder with
a sad little sio'h of resignation. ' I ou^'ht to
have known better,' she said ; ' there is no such
easy way out of it as that. Tell me — is there
one kind of wickedness more deceitful than
another ? Can it lie hid in a person for years
together, and show itself when a time of
suffering — no ; I mean when a sense of injury
comes ? Did you ever see that, when sou
were master in the prison ?'

I had seen it — and, after a moment's doubt,
I said T had seen it.

Did you pity those poor wretches ?'

Certainly ! They deserved pity.'

• I am one of them !' she said. ' Pity me.
If Helena looks at me — if Helena speaks tome

— if I only see Helena by accident — do
you know what she does ? She tempts me !
Tempts me to do dreadful things ! Tempts

me ' The poor child threw her arms

round my neck, and whispered the next fatal
words in m} ear.

The mother ! Prepared as I was for the
accursed discovery, the horror of it shook me.

She left me. and started to her feet. The
inherited energy showed itself in furious protest
against the inherited evil. ' What does it
mean ?' she cried. ' I'll submit to anything.
I'll bear my hard lot patiently, if you will
only tell me what it means. AVherc does this
horrid transformation of me out of myself
come from ? Look at my good father. In all
this world there is no man so perfect as he is.
And oh, how he has taught me ! there isn't a
single good thing that I have not learnt from
him since I was a little child. Did you ever
hear him speak of my mother ? You must

have heard him. My mother was an angel.
I couhl never be worthy of her at my best
but I have tried I I have tried I The
wickedest liirl in the world doesn't have worse
thoughts than the thoughts that have come tome.
Since when ? Since Helena — oh, how
can I call her by her name as if I still loved
her ? Since my sister — can she be my sister,
I ask myself sometimes ! Since my enemy' —
there's the word for her — since my enemy
took Philip away from me. What does it
mean ? I have asked in my prayers — and
have got no answer. I ask yon. What does
it mean ? You must tell me ! You shall tell
me ! What does it mean ?'

Why did I not try to cain her ? I had
vainly tried to calm lier — I who knew who
her mother was, and what her mother had
been.

At last, she had forced the sense of my duty
on me. The simplest way of calming her

Alas to put her back in the place by my side
that she had left. It was useless to reason
with her, it was impossible to answer her. I
had my own idea of the one way in Which I
might charm Eunice back to her sweeter self.

Let us talk of Philip I said.

The fierce flush on her face softened, the
swelling' trouble of her bosom beo'an to subside,
as that dearly-loved name passed my
lips ! But there was some influence left in
her which resisted me.

Xo,' she said : ' we had better not talk of
him.'

Why not ?'

I have lost all my courage. If you speak
of Philip, you will make me cry.'

I drew her nearer to me. If she had been
my own child, I don't think I could have felt
for her more truly than I felt at that moment.
I only looked at lier ; I only said :

Cry !'

The love that was in her heart rose, and
poured its tenderness into her eyes. I had
longed to see the tears that would comfort
her. The tears came.

There was silence between us for a while.
It was possible for me to think.

In the absence of physical resemblance
between parent and child, is an unfavourable
influence exercised on the tendency to moral
resemblance ? Assuming the possibility of
such a result as this, Eunice (entirely unlike
lier mother) must, as I concluded, have been
possessed of qualities formed to resist, as well
as of qualities doomed to undergo, the infection
of evil. While, therefore, I resigned myself
to recognise the existence of the hereditary
maternal taint, I firmly believed in the counterbalancing
influences for good which had been
part of the girl's birthright. They had been
derived, perhaps, from the better qualities in

her flitlier's nature ; they had been certainly
developed by the tender care, the religious
vigilance, which had guarded the adopted child
so lovingly in the Minister's household ; and
they had served their purpose until time
brought with it the change, for which the
tranquil domestic influences were not prepared.
AVith the great, the vital transformation,
which marks the ripening of the girl
into the woman's maturity of thought and
passion, a new power for Good, strong enough
to resist the latent power for Evil, sprang
into being, and sheltered Eunice under the
supremacy of Love. Love ill-fated and ill-bestowed
— but love that no profanation could
stain, that no hereditary evil could conquer —
the True Love that had been, and was, and
would be, the guardian angel of Eunice's life.

If I am asked whether I have ventured to
found this opinion on what I have observed iu
one instance only, I reply that I have had

other opportunities of investigation, and that
my conclusions are derived from experience
which refers to more instances than (me,

Xo man in his senses can doubt that
physical qualities are transmitted from parents
to children. But inheritance of moral qualities
is less easy to trace. Here, the exploring
mind finds its progress beset by obstacles.
That those obstacles have been sometimes
overcome I do not deny. Moral resemblances
have been traced between parents and children.
While, however, I admit this, I doubt the
conclusion which sees, in inheritance of moral
qualities, a positive influence exercised on
mortal destiny. There are inherent emotional
forces in humanity to which the inherited
influences must submit ; they are essentially
influences under control — influences which
can be encountered and forced back. That
we, who inhabit this little planet, may be the
doomed creatures of fatality, from the cradle

to the grave, I am not prepared to dispute.
But I absolutely refuse to believe that it is
a fatality with no higher origin than can be
found in our accidental obligation to our
fathers and mothers.

Still absorbed in these speculations, I was
disturbed by a touch on my arm.

I looked up. Eunice's eyes were fixed on
a shrubbery, at some little distance from us,
which closed the view of the garden on that
side. I noticed that she was trembling.
Nothing to alarm her was visible that I could
discover. I asked what she had seen to startle
her. She pointed to the shrubbery.

Look again,' she said.

This time I saw a woman's dress amon^-
the shrubs. The woman herself appeared ina
moment more.

It was Helena. She carried a small portfolio,
and she approached us with a smile.

THE WHISPERING VOICE.

I LOOKED at Eunice. She had risen, startled
by her first suspicion of the person who was
approaching' us through the shrubbery ; but
she kept her place near me, only changing her
position so as to avoid confronting Helena.
Her quickened breathing was all that told me
of the effort she Alas making to preserve her
self-control.

Entirely free from unbecoming signs of
hurry and agitation, Helena opened her business
with me by means of an apology.

Pray excuse me for disturbing you. I
am obliged to leave the house on one of my

VOL. II. 33

tiresome domestic errands. If you will kindly
permit it, I ^visli to express, before I go, my
very sincere regret for what I was rude enough
to say, when I last had the honour of seeing
you. May I hope to be forgiven ? ,
Eunice ? Have you enjoyed your
holiday in the country ?'

Eunice neither moved nor answered. Having
some doubt of what might happen if the two
girls remained together, I proposed to Helena
to leave the garden and to let me hear what
she had to say, in the house.

Quite needless,' she replied ; * I shall not
detain you for more than a minute. Please
look at this.'

She offered to me the portfolio that she
had been carrying, and pointed to a morsel
of paper attached to it, which contained this
inscription :

Philip's Letters To Me. Private. Helena
Gracedieu.'

*■ I have a favour to ask,' lie said, ' and \i
]proof of confidence in you to offer. Will you
be so good as to look over Avhat you find
in my portfolio ? I am unwilling to give uj)
the hopes that I had founded on our interview,
when I asked for it. The letters will, I venture
to think, plead my cause more convincingly
than I was able to plead it for myself I wish
to forget what passed between us, to the last
word. To the last word,' she repeated emphatically
— with a look which sufficiently
informed me that I had not been betrayed to
her whither yet. ' Will you indulge me ?' she
asked, and offered her portfolio for the second
time.

A more impudent bargain could not well
have been proposed to me.

I was to read, and to be favourably impressed
by, ^[r. Philip Dunboyne's letters
and Miss Helena was to say nothing of that
unlucky slip of the tongue, relating to her

33—2

mother, which she had discovered to be a
serious act of self-betrayal — thanks to my
confusion at the time. If I had not thought
of Eunice, and of the desolate and loveless
life to which the poor girl was so patiently
resigned, I should have refused to read Miss
Gracedieu's love-letters.

But, as things were, I was influenced by
the hope (innocently encouraged by Eunice
herself) that Philip Dunboyne might not be
so wholly unworthy of the sweet girl whom
he had injured, as I had hitherto been too
hastily disposed to believe. To act on this
view with the purpose of promoting a reconciliation
was impossible, unless I had the
means of forming: a correct estimate of the
man's character. It seemed to me that I had
found the means. A fair chance of putting
his sincerity to a trustworthy test, was surely
offered by the letters (the confidential letters)
which I had been requested to read. To feel

this as strongly as I felt it, brought me at
once to a decision. I consented to take the
portfolio — on my own conditions.

Understand, ^[iss Helena I said, ' that I
make no promises. I reserve my own opinion,
and my own right of action.'

I am not afraid of your opinions or your
actions,' she answered confidently, 'if you
will only read the letters. In the meantime,
let me relieve my sister, there, of my presence.
I hope you will soon recover, Eunice, in the
country air.'

If the object of the wretch was to exasperate
her victim, she had completely foiled. Eunice
remained as still as a statue. To all appearance,
she had not even heard what had been
said to her. Helena looked at me, and touched
her forehead nth a significant smile. ' Sad,
isn't it ?' she said — and bowed, and went
briskly away on her household errand.

We were alone again.

Still, Eunice never moved. I spoke to her,
and produced no impression. Beginning to
feel alarmed, I tried the effect of touching her.
With a wild cry, she started into a state of
animation. Almost at the same moment, she
weakly swayed to and fro as if the pleasant
breeze in the garden moved her at its will,
like the flowers. I held her up, and led her
to the seat.

There is nothing to be afraid of,' I said.
She has gone.'

Eunice's eyes rested on me in vacant surprise.


How do you know ?' she asked. ' I hear
her ; but I never see her. Do you see
her ?'

sly dear child I of what person are you
speaking ?'

She answered : ' Of no person. I am
speaking of a Voice that whispers and tempts
me, when Helena is near.'

What voice, Eunice ?'

The whisperings: Voice. It said to me, '* I
am your mother ;" it called me Daughter when
I first heard it. sly father speaks of my
mother, the anii'el. That good spirit has never
come to me from the better world. It is a
mock-mother who comes to me — some spirit
of evil. Listen to this. I was awake in my
bed. In the dark I heard the mock-mother
whispering, close at my ear. Shall I tell you
how she answered me, when I longed for liofht
to see her by, when I prayed to her to show
herself to me ? She said : " ^\\ face was
hidden when I passed from life to death ; my
face no mortal creature may see." I have
never seen her — how can ]naL have seen her ?
But I heard her again, just now. She whispered
to me when Helena was standing there
where you are standing. She freezes the
life in me. Did she freeze the life in ifov?
Did you hear her tempting me ? Don't speak

of it, if you did. Oh, not a word ! not a
word !'

A man who has governed a prison may
say with Macbeth, ' I have supped full with
horrors.' Hardened as I was — or ouo-ht to
have been — the effect of what I had just
heard turned me cold. If I had not known
it to be absolutely impossible, I might have
believed that the crime and the death of the
murderess were known to Eunice, as beings
crime and the death of her mother, and
that the horrid discovery had turned her
brain. This was simply impossible. What
did it mean ? Good God ! what did it mean ?

My sense of my own helplessness was the
first sense in me that recovered. I thought of
Eunice's devoted little friend. A woman's
sympathy seemed to be needed now. I rose
to lead the way out of the garden.

Selina will think we are lost,' I said. ' Let
us go and find Selina.'

Xot for the world,' she cried.

Why not ?'

Because I don't feel sure of myself. I
might tell Selina something which she must
never know ; I should he so sorry to frighten
her. Let me stop here with you.'

I resumed my place at her side.

Let me take your hand.'

I gave her my hand. What composing
influence this simple act may, or may not,
have exercised, it is impossible to say. She
was quiet, she was silent. After an interval,
I heard her breathe a long-drawn sigh of
relief.

I am afraid I have surprised you,' she said.
Helena brings the dreadful time back tome
' She stopped and shuddered.

Don't speak of Helena, my dear.'

'But I am afraid you will think — because
I have said strange things — that I have been
talking at random,' she insisted. ' The doctor

will say that, if you meet with him. He believes
I am deluded by a dream. I tried to
think so myself. It was of no use ; I am
quite sure he is wrong.'

I privately determined to watch for the
doctor's arrival, and to consult with him.
Eunice went on :

^ I have the story of a terrible night to tell
you ; but I haven't the courage to tell it now.
Why shouldn't you come back with me to the
place that I am staying at ? A pleasant farmhouse,
and such kind people. You might
read the account of that night in my journal.
I shall not regret the miser" of having written
it, if it helps you to find out how this hateful
second self of mine has come to me. Hush !
I want to ask you something. Do you think
Helena is in the house ?'

No — she has gone out.'

Did she say that herself ? Are you sure ?'

Quite sure.'

She decided on o'oinii: back to the farm,
while Helena was out of the way. We left the
garden together. For the first time, my companion
noticed the portfolio. I happened to
be carrying it in the hand that was nearest to
her, as she walked by my side.

Where did you get that ?' she asked.

It was needless to reply in words. ]\Iy
hesitation spoke for me.

Carry it in your other hand,' she said —
the hand that's farthest away from me. T
don't want to see it ! Do you mind waiting a
moment while I find Selina ? You will go to
the farm with us, won't you ?'

I had to look over the letters, in Eunice's
own interests ; and I begged her to let me
defer my visit to the firm until the next day.
She consented, after making me promise to
keep my appointment. It was of some importance
to her, she told me, that I should make
acquaintance with the farmer and his wife and

tiresome domestic errands. If you will kindly
permit it, I Lavish to express, before I go, my
very sincere regret for what I was rude enough
to say, when I last had the honour of seeing
you. May I hope to be forgiven ? ,
Eunice ? Have you enjoyed your
holiday in the country ?'

Eunice neither moved nor answered. Having
some doubt of what might happen if the two
girls remained together, I proposed to Helena
to leave the garden and to let me hear what
she had to say, in the house.

Quite needless,' she replied ; ' I shall not
detain you for more than a minute. Please
look at this.'

She offered to me the portfolio that she
had been carrying, and pointed to a morsel
of paper attached to it, which contained this
inscription :

Philip's Letters To Me. Private. Helena
Gracedieu.'

I have a flavour to ask,' she said, ' and a .
proof of confidence in you to offer. Will you
be so good as to look over what you find
in my portfolio ? I am unwilling to give up
the hopes that I had founded on our interview,
when I asked for it. The letters will, I venture
to think, plead my cause more convincingly
than I was able to plead it for myself I wish
to forget what passed between us, to the last
word. To the last word,' she repeated emphatically
— with a look which sufficiently
informed me that I had not been betrayed to
her whither yet. ' Will you indulge me ?' lie
asked, and offered her portfolio for the second
time.

A more impudent bargain could not well
have been proposed to me.

T was to read, and to be favourably impressed
by, mr. Philip Dunboyne's letters ;
and Miss Helena was to sav nothing of that
unlucky slip of the tongue, relating to her

33—2

tip: quaint philosopher.

Xo person came to my room, and nothing
happened to interrupt me while I was reading
Mr. Philip Dunboyne's letters.

One of them, let me say at once, produced a
very disagreeable impression on me. I have
unexpectedly discovered ]airs. Tenbruggen — ina
postscript. She is making a living as a
Medical Rubber (or ]\Iasseuse), and is in professional
attendance on 'Mr. Dunboyne the
elder. More of this, a little farther on.

Having gone through the whole collection
of young Dunboyne's letters, I set myself to
review the differing conclusions which the
correspondence had produced on my mind.

I call the papers submitted to me a correspondence,
because the greater part of Philip's
letters exhibit notes in pencil, evidently added
by Helena. These express, for the most part,
the interpretation which she had placed on
passages that perplexed or displeased her ; and
they have, as Philip's rejoinders show, been
employed as materials when she Wrote her
replies.

On reflection, I find myself troubled by complexities
and contradictions in the view presented
of this young man's character. To decide
positively whether I can justify to myself and
to my regard for Eunice, an attempt to reunite
the lovers, requires more time for consideration
than I can reasonably expect that helena's
patience will allow. Having a quiet hour or
two still before me, I have determined to make
extracts from the letters for my own use ;
with the intention of referring to them, while
I am still in doubt which way my decision

ought to incline. I shall present them hereto
speak for themselves. Is there any objection
to this ? Xone that I can see.

In the first place, these extracts have a
value of their own. They add necessary information
to the present history of events.

In the second place, I am under no obligation
to mr. Gracedieu's daughter which forbids me
to make use of her portfolio. I told her that
I only consented to receive it, under reserve of
my own right of action — and her assent to
that stipulation was expressed in the clearest
terms.

Extracts from Mr. Philip Dunboyne's

Letters.

First Extract.

You blame me, dear Helena, for not having

paid proper attention to the questions put tome

in your last letter. I have only been

waiting to make up my mind, before I replied.

First question : Do T think it advisable
that you shoal write to my flitlier ? Xo, my
dear ; I beg' you will defer writing, until you
hear from me a^'ain.

Second question : Considering that he is
still a stranger to you, is there anv harm in
your asking me what sort of man my father
is ? Xo harm, my sweet one ; but, as }'ou
will presently see, I am afraid you have
addressed yourself to the wrong person.

sly father is kind, in his own odd way — and
learned, and rich — a more high-minded and
honourable man (as I have every reason to
believe) doesn't live. But if you ask me
which he prefers, his books or his son, I hope
I do him no injustice when I answer, his
books. His reading' and this writing are
obstacles between us which I have never been
able to overcome. This is the more to be
regretted because he is charming, on the few
occasions when I find him disengaged. If
VOL. II. 34

you wish I knew more about my father, Ave
are in complete agreement as usual — I wish,
too.

But there is a dear friend of yours and mine,
who is just the person we want to help us.
Need I say that I allude to ]airs. Staveley ?

I called on her yesterday, not long after she
had paid a visit to my father. Luck had
favoured her. She arrived just at the time
Ashen hunger had obliged him to shut up his
books, and ring for something to eat. Mrs.
Staveley secured a favourable reception with
her customary tact and delicacy. He had a
fowl for his dinner. She knows his weakness
of old ; she volunteered to carve it for him.

If I can only repeat Avhat this clever woman
told me of their talk, you Avill have a portrait
of ]mr. Dunboyne the elder — not perhaps a
highly-finished ]picture, but. as I hope and
believe, a good likeness.

.Mrs. Stavelev bea'an bv complaining' to him

of twig conduct of his son. I had promises to
write to lier, and I had never kept my word.
She lead reasons for being especially interested
in my plans and prospects, just then ; knowing
me to be attached (please take notice that
I am quoting' her own Lano-uaii^e) to a cliarmin'^^
friend of hers, whom I lead first met at lier
house. To aggravate the disappointment that
I had inflicted, the youmx lady had neglected
her too. Xo letters, no information. Perhaps
my whither would kind' enlighten lier?
Was the affair going on? or was it broken
off?

My father held out this plate and asked for
the other wing of the fowl. ' It isn't a bad
one for London,' he said ; ' won't you have
some yourself?'

I don't seem to have interested you,' Mrs.
Staveley remarked.

"What did you expect me to be interested
in?' my father inquired. 'I was absorbed ia

84—2

the fowl. Favour me bv returning to the
subject.'

Mrs. Staveley admits that she answered this
rather sharply : ' The subject, sir. was your
son's admiration for a charming girl : one of
the daughters of Mr. Gracedieu, the famous
preacher.'

My father is too well-bred to sjieak to a
lady while his attention is absorbed by a
fowl. He finished the second wins and
then he asked if ' Philip was engaged to be
married.'

I am not quite sure,' Mrs. Staveley confessed.


Then, my dear friend, we will wait till weare
sure.'

But, ]mr. Dunboyne, there is really no need
to wait. I suppose your son comes here, now
and then, to see you ?'

!My son is most attentive. Tn course of
time lie will contrive to hit on the ria'ht hour

for Ills visit. At present, poor fellow, be interrupts
nie every day.'

Suppose he hits upon the right time tomorrow
?'
eyes?'

You might ask him if he is engaged?'
Pardon me. I think I might wait till
Philip mentions it without asking.'

^ AVhat an extraordinary man you are !'
Oh, no. no — only a philosopher.'
This tried Mrs. Staveley's temper. You
know what a perfectly candid person our friend
is. She owned to me that she felt inclined to
make herself disagreeable. ' That's thrown
away upon me,' she said : ' 1 don't know what
a philosopher is.'

Let me pause for a moment, dear Helena.
I have inexcusably forgotten to speak of my
father's personal appearance. It won't take
long. I need only notice one interesting
feature which, so to speak, lifts his face out

of the coition. He has an eloquent nose.
Persons possessing this rare advantage are
hest with powers of expression not granted
to their ordinary fellow-creatures. My father's
nose is a mine of information to friends
familiarly acquainted with it. It changes
colour like a modest young lady's cheek. It
works flexibly from side to side like the rudder
of a ship. On the present occasion, Mrs.
Staveley saw it shift towards the left-hand
side of his face. A sigh escaped the poor
lady. Experience told her that my father was
going to hold forth.

You don't know what a philosopher is ?*
he repeated. ' Be so kind as to look at Me.
I am a philosopher.'

Mrs. Staveley bowed.

• And a philosopher, my charming friend, is
a man who has discovered a system of life.
Some systems assert themselves in volumes —
inij system asSerts itself in two words : Xever

think of anything until you have first asked
yourself if there is an absolute necessity for
doing it, at that particular moment. Thinking
of things, when things needn't he thought ol*,
is offering an opportunity to Worry ; and
"Worry is the favourite agent of Death when
the destroyer handles his work in a lino^erinti:
way, and achieves premature results. Xever
look back, and never look forward, as long as
you can possibly help it. Looking back leads
the way to sorrow. And looking forward
ends in the cruellest of all delusions : it encourages
hope. The present time is the
precious time. Live for the passing day ; the
passing day is all that we can be sure of. You
suggested, just now, that I should ask my son
if he was engaged to be married. Ifow do
we know wdiat wear and tear of your nervous
texture T succeeded in saving when T said :
"AVait till Philip mentions it without asking"?
There is the personal application of my system.

I have explained it in my time to every ^voman
on the list of my acquaintance, including the
female servants. Xot one of them has rewarded
me by adopting my system. How do
you feel about it?'

Mrs. Staveley declined to tell me whether
she had offered a bright example of gratitude
to the rest of the sex. When I asked why,
she declared that it was my thurn now to tell
her what I had been doing.

You will anticipate what followed. She
objected to the mystery in which my prospects
seemed to be involved. In plain English, was
I, or was I not, engaged to marry her dear
Eunice? I said, Xo. AVhat else could I say?
If I had told ]airs. Staveley the truth, when she
insisted on my explaining myself, she would
have gone back to my father, and Avould have
appealed to his sense of justice to forbid our
marriage. Finding me obstinately silent, she
has decided on writing' to Eunice. So we

parted. lUit don't be disheartened. On my

way out of the house, I met mr. Staveley

coming in, and lead a little talk With him.

He and this wife and his family are going to

the seaside, next week. sirs. Staveley once

out of our Ava, I can tell mv father of our

engagement without an' fear of consequences.

If she writes to him, the moment he sees my

hame mentioned, and hinds violent lanfruaofe

associated with it, he will hand the letter tome.

• Your business, Philip ; don't interrupt

me.' He will say that, and go back to his

books. There is my father, j^^ii^ted to the

life I Farewell, for the present.

*****
Remarks hj II. (j . — Philip's grace and
gaiety of style might be envied by any professional
Author. He amuses me, but he
rouses my suspicion at the same time. This
slippery lover of mine tells me to defer
writing to his father, and gives no reason

for offerlnir that strange advice to the vouno^
lady who is soon to be a member of the
family. Is this merely one more instance of
the weakness of his character ? Or, now that
he is away from my influence, is he beginning
to reoTet Eunice already ?

Added hy the Governor. — I too have ni}-
doubts. Is the flippant nonsense which Philip
has written, inspired hy the effervescent good
spirits of a happy young man ? Or is it
assumed for a purpose ? In this latter case, I
should gladly conclude, that he was regarding
his conduct to Eunice with becoming emotions
of sorrow and shame.

THE Masterful Masses.

My next quotations ^vill suffer a process of
abridgment. I intend them to present the
substance of three letters, reduced as follows
:

Second Extract.

Weak as he may be, ]mr. Philip) Dunboyne
shows (in his second letter) that he can feel
resentment, and that he can express his
feelings, in replying to bliss Helena. He
protests against suspicions which he has not
deserved. That he does sometimes think of
Eunice he sees no reason to deny. He is

conscious of errors and misdeeds, which —
traceable as they are to Helena's irresistible
fascinations — may perhaps be considered rather
his misfortune than his fault. Be that as it
may, he does indeed feel anxious to hear good
accounts of Eunice's health. If this honest
avo\^'al excites her sister's jealousy, he will be
disappointed in Helena for the first time.

His third letter shows that this exhibition
of spirit has had its effect.

The imperious young lady regrets that she
has hurt his feelings, and is rewarded for the
apology by receiving news of the most gratifying
kind. Faithful Philip has told his father
that he is enofao-ed to be married to Miss
Helena Gracedieu, daughter of the celebrated
Congregational preacher — and so on, and soon.
Has ]mr. Dunboyne the elder expressed
any objection to the young Lady ? Certainly
not ! He knows nothing of the other engagement
to Eunice ; and lie merely objects,

on principle, to looking forward. ' How do
Ave know,' says the philosopher, ^ what accidents
may ]happen, or Avliat doubts and hesitations
may yet turn up? I am not to burden
my mind in this matter, till I know that I
must do it. Let me hear when she is ready
to 2:0 to church, and I will be ready with the
settlements. ]\Iy compliments to Miss and
her Papa, and let us wait a little.' Dearest
Helena — isn't he funny ?

The next letter has been already mentioned.

In this there occurs the first startling
reference to sirs. Tenbruiz'^en, bv name. She
is in London, finding her way to lucrative
celebrity bv twisting', turning', and pinching:
the flesh of credulous persons, afflicted with
nervous disorders ; and she has already paid a
few medical visits to old ]\[r. Dunboyne. Ho
persists in poring over his books while Mrs.
Tenbruggen operates, sometimes on his
cramped right hand., sometimes (in the fear

that his brain may have something to do
with it) on the back of his neck. One of
them frowns over her rubbing, and the other
frowns over his reading. It would be delightfully
ridiculous, but for a drawback ;
Mr. Philip Dunboyne's first impressions of
sirs. Tenbruo'o^en do not incline him to look
at that lady from a humorous point of view.

Helena's remarks follow as usual. She has
seen Mrs. Tenbruo-o-en's name on the address
of a letter written by ]\Iiss Jillgall — which is
<|uite enough to condemn Mrs. Tenbruggen.
As for Philip himself, she feels not quite sure
of him, even yet. Xo more do I.

Third Extract.

The letter that follows must be permitted
to speak for itself :

I have flown into a passion, dearest Helena;
and T am afraid I shall make you fiv into a

passion too. IJlanic sirs. TenLrug'gen ; don't
blame me.

On the first occasion when I found my
father under the hands of the medical Rubber,
she took no notice of me. On the second
occasion — when lie had been in daily attendance
on him for a Aveek, at an exorbitant fee
she said in the coolest manner : ' AVho is
this young gentleman ?' My father laid down
Isis book, for a moment only : ' Don't interrupt
me ao'ain. ^la'am. The vouno- gentleman is
my son Philip.' ]airs. Tenbruggen eyed me
with an appearance of interest which I was at
a loss to account for. I hate an impudent
woman. sly visit came suddenly to an end.

The next time I saw my father, he was
alone.

I asked him how he got on with ^Frs.
Tenbruggen. As badly as possible, it appeared
' She takes liberties with 'my neck ;
she interrupts me in my reading ; and she

does me no good. I shall end, Philip, in
applying a medical rubbing to Mrs. Ten-rugged.'


A few days later. I found the masterful
Masses ' torturing the poor old gentleman's
muscles again. She had the audacity to say
to me : ' Well, ]mr. Philip, when are you
going to marry Miss Eunice Gracedieu ?' My
father looked up. ' Eunice ?' he repeated.
When my son told me he was engaged to
Miss Gracedieu, he said " Helena I" Philip,
what does this mean ?' Mrs. Tenbruggen
was so obliging as to answer for me. ' Some
mistake, sir ; it's Eunice he is engaged to.'
I confess I forgot myself ' How the devil do
you know that ?' I burst out. Mrs. Ten-rugged
ignored me and my language. ' I
am sorry to see, sir, that your son's education
has been neglected ; he seems to be grossly
ignorant of the laws of politeness.' ' Xever
mind the laws of politeness,' says my whither

You a]~)pcar to be better acquainted with
mv son's matrimonial prospects than he is
himself. How is that ?' Mrs. Tenbruf^gen
favoured him with another ready reply : ' My
authority is a letter, addressed to me by a
relative of ]mr. Gracedieu — my dear and intimate
friend, Miss JillgalL' sly father's keen
eyes travelled backwards and forwards between
his female surgeon and his son. ' Which am
I to believe ?' he inquired. ' I am surprised
at your asking the cohesion,' I said. Mrs.
Tenbruggen pointed to me. ' Look at ]mr.
Philip, sir — and you will allow him one merit.
He is capable of showing it, when he knows
he has disgraced himself Without intending
it, I am sure, my father infuriated me ; he
looked as if he believed her. Out came one
of the smallest and strongest words in the
English language before I could stop it :
Mrs. Tenbruggen, you lie !' The illustrious
Rubber dropped my father's hand — she had
VOL. II. 35

been operating on him all the time — and
showed us that she could assert her dignity
when circumstances called for the exertion :
Either your son or I, sir, must leave the
room. Which is it to be ?' She met her
match in my father. Walking quietly to the
door, he opened it for Mrs. Tenbruggen with
a low bow. She stopped on her way out, and
delivered her parting words : ' Messieurs
Dunboyne, father and son, I keep my temper,
and merely regard you as a couple of blackguards.'
With that pretty assertion of her
opinion, she left us.

When wee were alone, there was but one
course to take ; I made my confession. It is
impossible to tell you how my father received
it — for he sat down at his library table with
his back to me. The first thine did was to
ask me to help his memory.

Did you say that the father of these girls
was a parson ?'

'Yes — a Congregational sinister.'

AVhat does the Minister think of you ?'

I don't know, sir.'

Find out.'

That was all ; not another word could I
extract from him. I don't pretend to have
discovered what he really has in his mind. I
only venture on a suggestion. If there is any
old friend in your town, who has some influence
over your father, leave no means
untried of getting that friend to say a kind
word for us. And then ask your father to
write to mine. This is, as I see it, our only
chance.

*****

There the letter ends. Helena's notes on it
show that her pride is fiercely interested in
securing Philip as a husband. Her victory
over poor Eunice will, as she plainly intimates,
be only complete when she is married to young
Dunboyne. For the rest, her desperate resolve



tion to win lier way to my good graces is
sufficiently intelligible, now.

My own impressions vary. Philip rather
gains upon me ; he appears to have some
capacity for feeling ashamed of himself On
the other hand, I regard the discovery of an
intimate friendship existing between sirs. 
and Miss Illo-all with the gloomiest
views. Is this formidable Massetise likely to
ply her trade in the country towns ? And is
it possible that she may come to this town ?
God forbid I

Of the other letters in the collection, I need
take no special notice. I returned the whole
correspondence to Helena, and waited to hear
from her.

The one recent event in Mr. Gracedieu's
family, worthy of record, is of a melancholy
nature. After paying his ^dsit to-day, the
doctor has left word that nobody but the
nurse is to 2'0 near the Minister. This seems

to indicate, but too surely, a change for the
worse.

Helena has been away all the evening at the
Girls' School. She left a little note, informing
me of her wishes : ' I shall expect to be
favoured with your decision tomorrow morning,
in my housekeeping room.'

At breakfast time, the report of the poor
Minister was still discouraging. I noticed
that Helena was absent from the table. Miss
Jillgall suspected that the cause was bad news
from Mr. Philip Dunboyne, arriving by that
morning's post. ' If you will excuse the use
of strong language by a lady,' she said, ' Helena
looked perfectly devilish when she opened the
letter. She rushed away, and locked herself up
in her own shabby room. A serious obstacle,
as I suspect, in the way of her marriage.
Cheering, isn't it ?' As usual, good Selina expressed
her sentiments without reserve.

I had to keep my appointment ; and the

sooner Helena Gracedieu and I understood each
other the better.

I knocked at the door. It was loudly unlocked,
and violently thrown open. Helena's
temper had risen to boiling heat ; she stammered
with rage when she spoke to me.

I mean to come to the point at once,' she
said.

• I am o'lad to hear it, Miss Helena.'

'May I count on your influence to help me?
I want a positive answer.'

I o-ave her what she wanted. I said :
Certainly not.'

She took a crumpled letter from her pocket,
opened it, and smoothed it out on the table
with a blow of her open hand.

Look at that she said.

I looked. It was the letter addressed to
mr. Dunboyne the elder, which I had written
for ]mr. Gracedieu — with the one object of
preventing Helena's marriage.

Of course, I can depend on you to tell me
the truth ?' she continued.

Without fear or favour,' I answered, ' you
may depend on that.'

The signature to the letter, Mr. Governor, is
written by my father. But the letter itself is
in a different hand. Do you, by any chance,
recognise the writing: ?'

I do.'

Whose writing is it ?'

Mine.

END OF VOL. II.

BILLING A SONS, Prints, Guildford.
