OF THE

University

or ILLINOIS


CJ3l23i

VOL. I.

% Hold

By martin combe

AND

DUNCAN LISLE

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

LONDON: Chapman' AND HALL
Limited



[All rights reserved']

BUNGAY,

and Bread Street Hill, London.

CONTENTS OF VOLUME 1

CHAPTER I.

Wanted, A FULCRUM . . . . 1

CHAPTER VI.

^ "for AULD LANG SYNE "

CHAPTER VII.

PACK

CHAPTER 11.

PROFESSIONAL ADVICE . . . . 23





1-20



CONTENTS.

BURN PORT

CHAPTER VIII.

PAGE



CHAPTER IX.

EAST RISE



CHAPTER X.

BIBLIOGRAPHY



CHAPTER XI.

Men OF HONOUR



CHAPTER XII.

JUST HIS LUCK

I'oo

CHAPTER XIII.

A WALK



CHAPTER XIV.

AX Omen



CHAPTER I.
WANTED, A FULCRUM.

'Tis a very good world that we live in
To lend, or to spend, or to give in ;
But to beg, or to borrow, or get at one's own
'Tis the very worst world that ever was known."

Old Adage.

It is exceedingly unpleasant to have to look a
nasty thing in the face, even if its nastiness is
an inevitable part of it, as is the case with the
weather of our northern latitudes in November.
Such, at least, is the view of what must be
expected from that unlovely month which is
based upon general experience. Should a really
fine day occur during the course of it, the season
is never allowed to get the credit.

What a Spring day ! " cries paterfamilias in
despair, as she looks at her little ones perspiring
in their stifling woollen wrajDS ; " these changes
are most trying, my dears."

VOL. I. B

'^ Sumner back again ! " twitter the saucy
sparrows ; " what a jolly sell for those finishing
swallows that have taken all the trouble to go
and look for it ! "

Perhaps one cannot wonder, therefore, that
most Novembers keep close enough to their
cheerless programme of mist, dampness, and
decay : the particular one which is the occasion
of the present apology was, indeed, going a step
farther, and in spite of its extreme youth (it
had only been born a few hours) was raising
such a squall round the neighbourhood of Oakleigh
as few among its ten predecessors had
equalled in their lustiest maturity.

All this, doubtless, was by way of making up
for lost time, the autumn chancres having; taken
place very gradually so far. " No more shilly-shallying
now'' boomed the stentorian wind, and
ratified the declaration by shaking the windows
of the old house quite fiercely. Truly the year
was " tottering to its close" — as an orator once
quaintly remarked in the pulpit — " with gigantic
strides ! "

Some such saddening reflections as these may
have been passing through the mind of Mrs.
Marchpane, that queen of housekeepers, as she
stood beneath a faded carriage-umbrella just
outside the front door, wearing a somewhat woebegone
expression on her clear, wholesome face.

There she waited, as she had been doing at odd
intervals during the last two hours and more ;
looking, with her gingham pent-house drawn
down over her head, not unlike some wonderful
toad-stool which the cold and wet had united to
produce for the purpose of blocking up the doorway
and keeping out the expected master.

Presently she was reinforced by the most
powerful of her subjects, the housemaid.

'now do come in, ma'am, there's a dear: to
think of your standing out there in that lovely
silk ! It'll get all spoilt and spotted ; and you
know you haven't got anything else to put on
'ars so 'handsome."

Why can't you leave me alone, Eliot ?
What a girl you are, to be sure ! D'ye think
I can let Mr. Arnold come without my being
here to say the first word to him ? It's time
for him to be here now : depend upon it, something's
kept him. Perhaps they couldn't keep
a fire up on the engine, being only men, you
know, — or the wood may have got damp, — and
there's been an accident. There, isn't that the
sound o' wheels ? "

She paused for a moment, bending her head
in a listening attitude. Then she added in-con
sequently : " Them nasty railroads ! I can't
stand 'em ; always going wrong and busting
up, they are."

B 2

Here the gardener made his appearance,
bearing vegetables and fruit in one basket, and
hot-house flowers in another. He seemed to
be comparatively impervious to the general
moisture, being encased in several sacks which
had been modified to suit his human imperfections
against such emergencies as the present.

On the look-out early, mum, you are,"
observed this sackcloth impenitent, with brisk
satire. " Mr. Gibbins 's only bin gone with* the
trap this 'ars-hour, and he had his marketing' todo
at Burfield afore the train was doo."

The ringing of a bell, audible through the
half-open door leading towards the kitchen,
stopped the severe retort that the housekeeper
was on the point of making to his rash levity.
For a moment they all stood aghast without
moving a step. The man recovered first : arguing
that there must be " summit op wi' the bell-handle,"
he proceeded to examine it gingerly,
as though it communicated with a galvanic battery
; and finally pronounced the phenomenon,
with scarcely warrantable dogmatism, to be the
fell doing of a "spirit."

'' Finally they raps," he went on, enlarging
on this occult theme, " but that's where there's
knockers. Been' only a bell here, in course this
one couldn't rap, yer see."

But a repetition of the portent — a little louder

this time, as though the "spirit," wherever
he might be, was getting petulant at being
neglected — aroused Mrs. Marchpane from her inaction.
Connecting case and eiBFect by a sudden
flash she darted into the house, and bustling
down the passage, burst into the dining-room.

A gentleman was seated before the comfortable
hearth with his boots off, warming the soles
of his feet. On beholding the incomer, however,
he started up with a crj of debghL

Wkj, it s you, Barbara."

He rushed forward, and hugged her against a
very wet shoulder in a way quite hearty and
unconventional

As for the recipient of these attentions, she
did not mind the look of the thing one jot.
Any one could have seen how proud she was of
it all, and how fond of him, as she patted his
hand before trying to say her word of welcome
to this fine, bearded fellow, her foster-child, the
little weakling of old days whom she could
hardly believe that she herself had once nursed.

And what a cross, tyrannical old nur^ you
were too," laughed he, " weren't you, Barbara ?
I may eaU you by that name still ? You were
Barbara to them, you know."

He pointed to a portrait over the fireplace of
a young couple holding each other in a half-playful,
half-loving caress.

Mrs. Marclipane looked at the picture, and
dried her eyes ; for the casements of her affectionate
soul were as moist as the window-panes
at that moment.

Mr. Arnold," she said, turning them back on
his face, *they are not here to be loved anymore.
But, thank God, you are with us again
safe and hearty : may you live long to carry on
their honoured name."

People seldom realise how largely the admixture
of happiness which their lives contain is due
to servants and humble friends, — "inferiors,"
as they are called. Fortunately for us, the
*' constant service " of Cana Fides is still among
the few things which are not yet articles of commerce,
nor are there any signs at present that it
will ever be classed among the defunct characteristics
of " the antique world."

But la, sir," said the housekeeper, now quite
recovered, " however did you manage to get in
without our seeing or hearing a suspicion of
you ? Ehoda Antrum and me have been staring
down the drive with all our eyes every now and
again the whole blessed day. Mine are getting
dim, I know ; but that girl's ought to be as keen
as keen at her age. But everything's altered
now-a-days, sir ; the very housemaids aren't what
they were, by a good deal," and the old body
fetched a sio'h as she lighted the candles, to try

and make Arnold believe that even his coming;
left some things to be desired.

He laughed as he warmed himself at the fire.

Ehoda would have to keep her eyes at the
back of her head if she had wanted to see me
come in by the conservatory without her turning
round. Were the girls made like spiders in your
young days, Barbara ? The fact is, I came by
an earlier train than I had intended, and left it
at the junction, fifteen miles away, this morning.
The guard undertook to have my luggage taken
care of at Burfield till Gibbins should come for
it. The weather looked promising ; so I thought
I would give myself the treat of walking over
the old ground again, and get gradually used to
the idea of having really come home at last to
take possession on my own account. And it
was fine when I started," he added, eyeing a
barometer in the corner rather ruefully.

"My certes!" exclaimed Mrs. Marchpane,
holding up a pair of plump hands, " to think of
your having had a fine morning so near here !
It's enough to make one almost hopeful again.
Well, I must go and look after Joshua ; he ought
to be back. I've had your dinner laid in the
library, sir, as being more snug and home-like
for one ; and it'll be ready as soon as you are."

All right, Barbara," shouted Arnold, as he
began to climb the staircase to his bed-room.

The housekeeper waited at the bottom of the
flight till a door in the upper regions closed on
his cheery whistle. Then she stole back to the
dining-room, and gazed again at the picture over
the oak mantelpiece.

''He's just like both of them, and he isn't
like either," murmured she ; — a remark which
may not have been exactly logical, but was
certainly true. The dead parents were equally,
and without any visible preponderance on either
side, responsible for their child's manner as well
as for his physical proportions. To his old nurse
it might well seem that these two points of
resemblance together furnished a tolerably safe
index to his character. His exterior was the
happiest interfusion of her old master and mistress,
and she had unconsciously arrived at a
similar conclusion already with regard to those
qualities of his nature which lay more out of sight.

Mrs. Marchpane had not, it must be admitted,
studied Darwin, and knew absolutely nothing
about Association and Inheritance, even when
those beautiful words were not spelt with capital
initials. Consequently she had gone through
life without the least attempt at theorising about
the twin factors which make us what we are.
But perhaps she was as wise as her neighbours
for all practical purposes.

Arnold stayed long over his dinner, helping it
down with a book, as was his wont. To-night,
however, it was not the reading that hindered
him : he was meditating in a desultory way on
the year that had elapsed since he left college ;
on his foreign experiences, and how glad he was
to be at home again, no longer bound to live
with his guardian and conform more or less to
his opinions. Mr. Dalton had discharged his
duties with sufficient tact and amiability, it was
true ; but Arnold loved independence, and there
he was glad it was all over, and he was free to
begin life entirely on his own plan.

He rose with a sigh that was not altogether
one of relief, however, and rang to have the
table cleared. Afterwards he sat down in his
arm-chair to enjoy some delicious coffee (he
knew how to make it for himself) and a cigar.

Nevertheless, these things did not form the
sum total of happiness in Arnold's eyes : even
now he was haunted by a dissatisfaction none
the less poignant because it was vague. Not
that asceticism appeared to him one whit more
hopeful : surely the laborious, or the delicate
mode of living was but an accident, something
to be classed with things indifferent, of no real
significance as determining a man's character and
aims.

I am certain," thought he, '' that were I

suddenly uprooted out of tins pleasant spot, and
set down somewhere else under entirely different
circumstances, I should feel just as I do now, as
soon as I had time to think."

What are the conditions of happiness is a
question which must be left to each of us to
solve in his owen way. It is a matter of private
temperament in every case. One thing is clear
enough, however : a man must be at peace
with himself before he can do much good in the
world. Now with most men the inferior rabble
of impulses and desires are kept in orderly subjection
by some one or other dominant impulse.
They are not harassed by making perpetual
reference to an immutable standard of right and
wrong:. But there are a few whose souls are not
to be suffered to canker through inaction : their
reason mistrusts itself; they are stretched on
the rack till they can solve their life's riddle.
Usually they find themselves in this plight
through the interposition of some hiatus between
the preparation for, and the actual commencement
of, the business of living. This probably
comes about with the discovery that the ideals
which tjiey have hitherto cherished are delusive
or insufficient ; and when these have once been
impugned, should they fail to stand the tests of
maturity, their votaries not unnaturally despair,
and lose faith in their owen principles.

Thus was it with Arnold Eobur when he left
Cambridge, nor was it different with him on his
return to Oakleigh after a whole year of foreign
travel. His difficulty had only been postponed,
not disposed of : it looked more urgent now than
it had ever done before.

So, as he sat there, the first blush of pleasure
at his latest change of scene faded from his face,
expelled by the paleness of suffering. The fire
died down in the grate, and left it grey with
dusty ashes. Arnold had a fancy that it was
preaching to him the parable of his own existence,
— a crumbling, death-incline affair at best.
Never had his need for intellectual sympathy
made itself so felt.

Shall I take counsel with Armitage ? " said
the young man to himself, as he rose and lit his
candle : " I suppose he would lecture me on this
Age of Unfaith and thank me for giving him
such an excellent cue. Well, I know all that —
the 'vaunted mentalism,' the ' craving for religious
sestheticism,' and all the rest of it."

He made a slight grimace — to be accounted
for, perhaps, by the fact of some melted grease
from the candle falling on to his fingers.

Then there's Paston : he promised to comedown
tomorrow, so he did. I shall wait and
see what he makes of it.'^

He yawned, and rubbed his eyes.

Oh for an Oedipus to undertake the job of
quelling the monster for me ! "

Perhaps this young man was all the harder to
satisfy from one small peculiarity which many
admirable sceptics manage to do without. This
was that he desired above all things to hold
some adequate belief. His scepticism was not
held for scepticism's sake : but the presence of
this very element, painful as it made Arnold's
state of mind, brought a latent force to bear
which in itself had a healthy tendency. Again,
he was capable of much enthusiasm, though it
was as natural for him to restrain it till his
judgment should approve as is the instinct which
prevents a pack of hounds from starting off in
full cry before they have found anything to hunt.
Moreover, he had a commendable horror of affectation
and publicity : he did not pretend to
aspirations that were none of his, posing as hero
or emancipator ; he had never stooped to discard
the Deity with magnificent self commiseration
before a debating society, or ape the Promethean
vein at fashionable soirees. Gesticulating
on such a topic had always seemed to him contemptible.
In short, he was too much in earnest
to grin through a horse-collar for other people's
amusement.

The next morning was spent by Arnold in the
way best calculated to soothe his spirit — at the

piano. The instrument wanted using, but was
otherwise in good repair, as the library, where
it stood, was always kept warm and dry on
account of the books. Music was Arnold's chief
solace ; in spite of certain superficial angularities,
corners which time had not yet rounded, — his
was one of those highly-favoured organisations
that can take to themselves wings whenever a
sweet melody is sounded, and escape from the
jarring noise of mundane affairs. Poor mortals
who have not this divine gift of abstraction must
bear the din incessantly, till the true music loses
its power over them in the roar and rush of other
things, and their ears gret dull of hearing* as their
eves of seeing'.

Conversing thus with the Muse of Harmony
our friend forgot all time — except, to be sure,
that which regulates such intercourse : and it
was not until he heard a footstep in the hall
outside that he ceased. In another moment he
was grasping his visitor's hand, and dragging
him into the room.

Mr. Robert Paston was a young man of twenty-eight,
and was therefore some four years older
than Arnold. His face was, however, that of a
man nearer forty than thirty, partly owing to the
abundance of hair upon his cheeks, which looked
as though it might have been successfully transplanted
from his crown, for he was getting

prematurely bald. His general appearance was
staid and massive, yet withal kindly. There is
much attraction in a twinkling eye set in a wholesome,
beaming face. Some eyes, indeed, there
are which go on twinkling so pertinaciously as to
make it a thing quite cheap and unmeritorious.
Their reason for doing so is often sufficiently
obscure to set their friends off on a fool's errand
thinking how to find one ; and lo, there is none.
"When Paston twinkled, however, it was with
meaning, as on the present occasion.

Ah, Robur, happy fellow ! Who would not
wish himself in your place, to be able to sit down
at ease after a late breakfast, and dream away
the hours 1 Do you know how long you have

been over your voyage to the clouds ? Not

J)
you.

Arnold acknowledged that he had risen that
morning with the intention of meeting Paston at
Burfield station about two o'clock. " And now
it's nearly three," remarked the latter delightedly.
Then he added, with tentative diplomacy, " Still
time for lunched*'

Stay," said this jovial ascetic, when they
were seated at that meal of widely varying
custom and observance ; " unseal not that coy
amphora on my account, my genial Thaliarchus ;
let the rich Csecuban stay in its two-eared crock
for me. Nay, my friend, with none of them —

from Oporto's luscious berry to the light and not
inebriation' Sabine dinner-claret — will I moisten
my weasand this day, thank you. The fact is,
I've been making a night of it, — an unusually
bad one, — and it's given me a fit of the blues —
temperance colour, you know."

The doctor spoke gaily ; but Arnold noticed
his hand tremble as he poured some water into a
tumbler, and drank it slowly.

When I tell you that I only snatched a
couple of hours' sleep this morning before coming
down here, and that on the top of a remarkably
lively case of D. T., you will perhaps cease to
wonder at my sudden devotion to Adam's Entire."

He took another pull at the water, and proceeded
:

*' You see, the poor wretch had been one of my
old chums." The doctor did not say how much he
had tried to do for this man when he was himself
serving a hard medical apprenticeship, or how
involuntary had been the companionship thus
forced upon him: "Yes, we walked the wards
together at St. Fawkes'. He was entrapped into
marrying a barmaid from some bio restaurant
or other ; that's how it was. Of course their
conjugal felicity didn't last long, and she left
him for some other fellow ; but I am pretty sure
he'll never feel that, or any other loss, again. I
shall never forget one afternoon at the end of a

fortnight he spent with me just before he took to
his bed. It hadn't dawned upon me, somehow,
what was up with him till then : a sort of passing
queerness may have been observable before,
but that day it settled down on him in the most
unmistakable way. He had been playing the
strangest antics while I was out, they told me ;
and when I opened the door, and saw him with
his hat on and his coat off, knocking over
imaginary skittles, and conversing brightly all
the while with a crowd of spectral pals, my worst
fears were realised.

Directly he saw me he left the game, and
came towards me with reproachful expostulation
written in every feature. * Paston,' said he,
why will you always be running after that
brute Muckford 1 The fellow's nothing but a
billiard-marker, and a low cad at that. That's
just what he is, pained as you must be to hear
it of a friend of yours. But I think nothing of
that, so you're warned in time. Don't lend him
any more, now don't ; and have nothing more to
say to him. Already he's got you into more than
one ugly thing, — there, you needn't try to deny
it. Anyhow, I'll do the best I can for you, we
always have been like brothers together.' Then,
with lowered voice, and rather nervously, ^ I'm
not speaking too loud, am I ? D'ye think he can
hear yonder ? You can see him over my shoulder.'

Putting some constraint upon myself, I
did not attempt to brazen out my ignorance
of Muckford, and his nefarious practices, to
this keen-eyed Mentor. ' That's right,' said he
absently, when I promised to do better in future.
I told him to wait for it in the garden,' he
added, turning to the window. ' AVait for
what ? ' said I, wondering what would happen
next. ' "^Vhy, the sixpence, of course, the one
I gave you to keep for me when these chaps
came in.' there it is,' said I, mechanically
producing a coin. ' Halloa there, Muckford,'
shouted my patient, snatching it from my hand,
and throwing up the sash. ' Catch, Muckford.
Got it ? All right. You know where to take it.
Mind he measures out the liquor on the square,
and don't you dip t/oio' beak into it.' With that
he chucked the sixpence out into my vacant
back-yard, and sat down with a look of calm
anticipation on his face. Needless to say, however,
his invisible genius never returned with
the grog, and may have drunk himself to death
in the bar of the Green Man with the earnings

o

of his treachery, for aught I know. Enough to
make one laugh, isn't it ? but upon my word I
was as near doing; the other throat the time."

It is astonishing how persistently one is disposed
to find comedy in e everything," resumed
Paston after a pause. " Did you ever hear of

VOL. I. c

the parson who managed to behave with due
decorum at the burial of a parishioner, but gave
way completely to a most disgraceful fit of merriment
immediately afterwards, upon being informed
that ' the corpse's brother-in-law ' wanted
to see him in the vestry ? "

Arnold knew and respected a genuinely deep
sympathy in his friend for all things human, nor
was he to be deceived by the harmless affectation
of a mocking tone behind which Paston sometimes
attempted to conceal it. There was, indeed,
a thorough understanding; between these two, and
none the less so for the reticence of each in manifesting
it. Here in England men feel more than
they are able to express. The air, according to a
reason given by Milton, is too cold for us to be
continually opening our mouths, like the dwellers
under warmer skies ; and hence it comes that,
from being undemonstrative, we are liable to
seem unfeeling to our more voluble neighbours.

It will be observed that Paston was by no
means of that legitimate order of family physicians
whose professional attendance has been
deemed requisite for the sanity of the bulk of
fiction from the days of Sangrado and Slop.
That he belonged to the same honourable profession
as those worthies cannot be denied, but
it is an accident for which be alone is responsible.
Of course he might have selected a less frequented,

if not more interesting;, walk in life : lie mioiit
have been a junior lord of the Admiralty, a writer
in the Times, or even a novelist. It would have
been interesting to have known him under either
of the first two capacities, at any rate. But the
stubborn realism " of history may not be paltered
with : he was a doctor, and one who did
not vary his engagements by lecturing on Socialism,
or playing the bass drum. He was not a
typical doctor, either ; within that charmed circle
he was looked upon askance by some of the elders
of the craft. Doubts of his orthodoxy had been
whispered ; and Dr. Kachuma Lyvo, who lived
in the same street in London, had been known
to cross himself, and hiss out the deadly word
homoeopathy " when the shadow of Paston's neat
brougham crossed his dining-room windows.

"As you have settled with your partner to
stay over tomorrow," said Arnold, as they rose
from the table, " I have arranged to take you to
dine with the Daltonss. They are old friends of
my father's, and I used to spend my holidays
from school and college mainly at their house.
Of course they have often heard about you from
me, and are dying to behold you in the flesh. I
wonder whether you'll fall in love with Grace."

Paston smiled grimly : "I suppose that's a
young lady's name : you should make her mistress
of Oakleioh, the house is bis: enough for

C 2

two. You have everything else, and only want
to fill the cup of happiness simultaneously with
the vacant chair."

"Not a bit of it," replied Arnold, playfully
dismissing the other's insinuation, *you won't
find much love-sickness about me, I assure you."

But the doctor persisted :

'' What ! You mean to tell me that there is
nothing grievous in a fate harder than was laid
on the much-enduring: Ithacan ! After all his
hardships he at least found a fair Penelope to
welcome him back. I'm afraid you want to be
educated up to that still, Eobur."

The allusions of this well-meaning person were
apt to be rather irritating, although he was quite
aware that the display of attainments is not inconsistent
with superficiality in them and their
owner. In the present instance, however, his
companion was merely amused.

*' I don't think I could get on without a Penelope,"
he returned, " and I have a most efficient
one in Mrs. Marchpane, to say nothing of her
allowing no followers in the housekeeper's room."

Then they fell to discussing the inexhaustibly
congenial topic of their university careers. It
was due to Cambridge that they had ever met at
all — in the room of a common acquaintance, an
old schoolfellow of Arnold's. They had fraternised
at once, losing no time in cultivating each

other's society. Paston was considerably his
friend's senior in standing, and as a consequence
left Cambridge long before him. But frequent
visits on both sides kept up the intimacy which
was now, after five years' duration, no less close
than it had ever been. On the conclusion of his
course at the hospital the doctor's friends had
bought him a share in a flourishing practice.
His partner was an elderly man who had a house
out of town, and liked to spend as many evenings
out of the week as possible in his retirement.
Paston found his solitude at Simple
Street rather unbearable when work was slack
enough to allow him to notice it, and was always
glad to get a friend to share it with him. He
was getting on well, and fast paying back what
had been laid out in securing for him so desirable
a position.

Before retiring for the night the doctor expressed
his willingness to enliven Arnold with a
song, if the latter could accompany him without
laughing. This was not an easy matter, as he
stood at the other end of the grand piano, and
shouted the words defiantly at his accompanied's
head in a way more healthy than polite. They
sang many of the old ballads together, gems rich
with clustered associations that can never die.
They are with the child who hears them for the
first time ; he seems to recognise and hail them

as old friends. If he were older, lie might believe
that he had heard them in some former state
from the Hours' rosy lips, or chanted by Time
himself, before he had gotten his elf-locks and
keen scythe. Transmigration of souls becomes
an innocent truism when the ears are tickled
by one of these familiar ditties.

The entertainment concluded with a song by
the entertainer. It was a setting of Pistol's
famous lines,

*' Why, then the world's mine oyster,
Which I with sword will open."

Arnold's mind was still running: on it when he
lighted his guest upstairs to his room.

I wish you could supply a lever for me to
insert between the old bivalve's jaws, my dear
fellow," he said half involuntarily ; " I shouldn't
know what to do with a sword. But then where
is the fulcrum to come from ? I never thought
of that."

The doctor did not understand : he was sleepy,
and not in the mood for piecing together stray
hints with suppressed contexts.

So he wondered what it could mean till his
eyes closed ; and then something made him
dream of Grace Dalton.

CHAPTER 11.

PROFESSIONAL ADVICE.

"Modo hoc modo illud probability videtur." — Cicero.

When Robinson Crusoe left this island and the
society of his parrots, goats, and cannibals, lie
must have found the great world more lonely
than the solitude which his indomitable patience
has made an enchanted bower to so many of us.
And so his history goes on to relate that it was
not very long before he returned. One moral of
his life is that a man may live in unwelcome retirement
and yet find an amount of excitement
sufficient for a rational mind. How meagre and
ineffective that footprint on the sands would have
been at Brighton or Margate ! Still, his time was
not generally spent in discovering footprints.
Until the inestimable and immortal Friday joined
Defoe's hero, the only conversation he could enjoy
was that of parrots, whose capacities are generally
limited. And even when Friday was present,
Robinson Crusoe's life may fairly be regarded as

retired. From which we may observe that, once
a man has tasted the sweets of retirement, he is
loath to give them up altogether. Even complete
severance from society would hardly be
more wearisome than an unceasing round of
calls. We like humanity better when we have
an occasional breathing space, so that we may
view it as a whole. Consider the sad fate of
the popular man — the luckless being of whom
it is averred that no gathering is complete
without him. At the 'Varsity he becomes willynilly
a frequenter of " wines," — he has no time
to call his own. He moves in a perpetual circle
of gaieties : he is introduced to everybody : he
is asked everywhere. But leisure for contemplation
he has none. The crowd of figures passing
before his eye blurs the ideals he may have
formed : he is liked by everybody, likes nearly
everybody, and has very little chance of getting
beyond liking in the active or passive. He has
too many corners rubbed off to have a very
strong individuality.

But that is no reason why a man may not
become a favourite in a circle, with a reasonably
extended reputation for good fellowship among
the better sort. The great cause of degeneration
is a somewhat vulgar sham delicacy which makes
so many people shrink from nothing so much as
the slightest difference of opinion with a companion.

Laying down the law is one thing ;
having an opinion is another. People are apt
to comet that strong natures are not attracted
by obsequiousness, while outspoken disagreement
is often the shortest cut to a real intimacy,
and without it no friendship is worth the name.
However, the popular people seem to like their
position ; — presumably they do not deserve our
pity.

The friendship between Paston and Eobur was
of the outspoken kind, and Arnold knew that
there was no likelihood of any shilly-shallying
or concealment in such advice as he might
extract from the other. So the next morning
he tried to unburden his soul, while his friend
gravely sat and smoked.

It's the old business," he said in conclusion ;
'* I did have some hopes that a year's gadding
about among new scenes and people might help
to cure me : but it hasn't. So now, Paston, I
want a plain answer to a plain question. What
is your view of my case ? I don't believe it's
disease myself, but I want your opinion on the
point."

Liver, my dear fellow — unquestionably liver,
if you ask me as a general practitioner. Liver
is responsible for everything now-a-days. But
putting aside that explanation, as an easy professional
dodge for getting over the difficulty, I

should say it is constitutional ; but it's just as
likely to be health as disease. Now as I understand
you' said the doctor critically, " you area
man — correct me if I'm wrong — who fancies
himself without ground under his feet, in the
matter of religion and most other things. You
have in fact developed agnosticism in the ordinary
course of nature. With most people that is a
plant which only takes feeble root after the most
careful attention has been bestowed on it. First,
the soil has to be prepared, which is admirably
done by the injudiciousness of parents and spiritual
pastors and masters generally ; a process whose
wonderful efficacy you have perhaps scarcely
realised fully. Then comes the individual's own
pruning, weeding, and watering ; and when it
has been carefully stowed away in a hothouse,
our gardener begins to flatter himself that his
industry has finally disposed of the baneful
influence of cant, vagueness, — save the mark —
superstition, unreason, and all the other weeds
which before choked up his scientific Eden, and
hindered the modest exotic's growth. That is
the thing they spell with a capital A ; and a very
pretty specimen it is of what can be done by
laborious artificial contrivance. The gardens of
Albinus were nothing to it. But then you see,"
quoth Paston, fixing his eyes on the smoke that
curled towards the ceiling, '* to be kept alive it

must be nourished in identically the same way as
the old ideas — namely by dogma. Of course it has
been variously re-baptised ; but the chief difference
between the new religion and the older ones is
that while faith and dogma were in them complementary,
this asserts the glorious self-sufficiency
of docxma, and its ability to take care of itself.
"Why some of 'em don't buckle to and write an
epic on it puzzles me — it can't be for want of
imagination. ' Paradise Dispensed with' would bea
novel and effective title. Oh, I know, I know,"
continued the lecturer, waving his hand to forbid
interruption from Arnold, who seemed inclined
to speak, " you don't belong to that set. A little
a ' would satisfy your modest requirements. I'm
coming to your symptoms. They aren't new tome,
though they don't correspond to anything I
ever felt myself. My diagnosis is founded simply
on observation. Now I take it, you occasionally
feel an impulse to seek some sort of distraction,
don't you ? "

'' Distraction ? yes," said " Arnold, puffing
viciously at his pipe. " I've been hunting for
distraction in every capital — not to say every
village — on the continent for the last twelvemonths,
— and a precious lot of good it's done me.
I should plunge in the giddy vortex of the stock
exchange, or set saddle on a hobby and ride it
to death, if I thought there was any permanent

comfort to be got out of it. Model landlordism
isn't a particularly bracing tonic either. Oli, T
went into my tenants' affairs with zeal, I assure
you, and promised a reduction of rent for three
years, which was all very well in its way. They're
blessed with flowers and fruit from my garden,
and I let them trespass pretty much as they
like. That may work them up to treating me
with comparative confidence, and some interest
will attach to the attempt to stir up the fine old
crusted Tories of the neighbourhood to do something
of the same sort. But these things don't
take long ; and I tell you I want an aim which
will stand wear."

'^ Well, I don't keep aims ready made in stock,
and don't see my way to providing you just
now. As for a fellow with more than enough
coin on his hands spending his time toiling and
spinning for superfluous pelf, it seems to me that
would be a waste of energy — unless he sees his
way to laying it out better than his neighbours.
And just at present you don't seem to be seeing
your way to anything in particular. It's no use
your hunting around for labour — it'll come sometime.
But you can't go off solving the problems
of the universe before you've settled some of
your own private ones. Now there are some
people," said Paston, knocking the ashes out of
his pipe, and pausing to blow away some of the

dust which had found its way on to his coat, —
'^ there are some people who would tell you that
devoted self-sacrifice is the correct card to play —
come forward as the champion of the oppressed
costermonger, or sweep, or somebody. Start a
society, provide the funds, appoint yourself permanent
hon. sec, and there you are with divine
opportunities for writing unlimited letters. Only
you'd be a fraud''

Just so."

You see these friends of ours are excellent
folks : but they forget that after all there is a
tolerable evenness in the distribution of happiness.
If you hunt for deserving pauperism, your chance
of finding it is small. Keep close, and don't
make platform-business of your philanthropy, and
some day you may do some real good to someone.
Besides, the poor are always with us. But
as for a man like you, Bobur, shirking these
private difficulties, and refusing to look them
fairly in the face, it would be rank cowardice.
Thank the Lord, you can't plead necessity as an
excuse. You've a hundred times better chances
than the poor beggars who have to take opinions
on trust — or go without them — for hire. If there
is good stuff" in them they only get a temporary
release, and that at the very time of life when
they're best fitted for tussling with the foe. The
worse for them when they are laid on the shelf

ia old age, warped by all manner of custom and
meaningless observance, with the real battle of
life still to be fought, and Goliath brandishing
his weaver's beam like a tennis-racket. What
odds will you take for their victory then, young
David ? But you have your sling, with a reasonable
chance of finding five smooth stones in a
brook or elsewhere. Anyhow, you're bound to

try."

Arnold laughed. " It strikes me I should get
some one to stir up the magnanimous Gibbins to
challenge me to mortal combat," he said. " You'd
make an admirable second."

Well, I might keep people from treating your
wounds idiotically, and feeding you on pig's chine
and Grampian wine, like the sons of aesculapius.
But, bar joking, Kobur, do get about the business
in earnest. If you and your spiritual brethren
would only manage to get your affairs settled a
bit, society would be vastly improved."

I should like to think so, certainly. But
then we dont get our affairs settled, which is
against it."

I tell you what it is, Eobur," said Paston,
rising and taking up a position of vantage on the
hearth rug, from whence he addressed Arnold
dictatorially, " my own belief is that half of this
generation's difficulties are due to the feeble
inadequacy of our speculative scepticism. We

investigate — bless you, we investigate ; but we
set about it without any method. We take the
instruments in our hands, and instead of scientific
probing and dissecting we stick them in haphazard
anyhow, and kick up a row because the
result is that we only make confusion worse confounded.
The grand principle is classification ;
but we only jumble. We ought to classify the
disturbing elements. Classify the devil and he
will flee from you."

'Tis the voice of a Cantab, I heard him declare
If you classify well you need never despair,"

improvised Arnold. " Well, your suggestions are
certainly encouraging, and I'll do my level best
to follow them."

The doctor was reassured by his tone. '' Well,
you won't repent it, if prophesying is safe. The
main point is to fight the battle honestly and manfully
without shirking. Still, I don't recommend
you to spend your whole time over it ; you'd be
apt to get morbid. You want some sort of occupation,
to keep you in a healthy frame of mind.
You're a musician, of course, and that's a wonderful
safeguard ; because, so far as I can see, there
is nothing; to which his Infernal Highness has
such an ineradicable objection. I don't knows if
David was the first party who found that out
when they sent for him with his harp to play to

Saul ; but if he was, he deserved a deal of credit.
There's nothing like it for exorcising the fiend —
except when it's going on next door in the shape
of scales and five-finger exercises : then it seems
to tell the other way. Bat you can't always have
music, and there's no possible reason for going on
with only one string to your bow. Why not try
writing ? "

Hem. What am I to write ? I don't yearn
to fill editorial waste-paper baskets, or see my
works in a bookshop, labelled ' all this lot, quite
new, reduced 2^. 6<:/.' It's humiliating."

^' My dear fellow, you needn't be alarmed ; I'm
proud to say that I can pretty well secure you
from the ignominy you mentioned first. The
blameless Bloss, godlike editor of the Hebdomadal
Tuba Mirabilis, vulgarly known as the Weedy
Startler, honours me by having adopted me as
the guardian of his body's health, and he'll accept
any recommendation from me like a shot. In his
columns, you will find an admirable escape-valve
for the seething of your colossal brain. A light
review now and then might put you in spirits.
I'll introduce you to some of the staffs," said
Paston, dropping into his chair again ; " they're
a queer lot, and you'll be amused." And so the
question was settled after a discussion which
afforded considerable satisfaction to both parties,
and went some way to cementing an already

strong friendship ; as outspoken discussions
generally do.

In the evening they went over according to
appointment to dine with Mr. Dalton and his
family. Beau Sejour, as the owner's wife had
insisted on naming the place, was a pleasant
enough house within a mile of Burfield : newer
than Oakleigh, as Mr. Dalton himself had built
it. That gentleman received his visitors with
the hospitable urbanity which was characteristic
of him. " Mrs. Dalton will be delighted to see
you," he said to the doctor, after a somewhat
ceremonious greeting. "She has been longing
to make your acquaintance, after all we have
heard about you from Arnold." To which Paston
mumbled some vague reply, and felt embarrassed.
It was like being told suddenly that he was down
on the programme for a speech or a comic song.
This was the host's artful method of atoning for
his better-half's peculiarities. Thus was he fain
to persuade his guests that his wife's shortcomings
were a careful disguise, concealing the most heartfelt
interest in her neighbours' welfare. Unhappily,
however, the plan did not meet with the
success it deserved, the true state of affairs being
somewhat too palpable.

Hardly had Mr. Dalton finished these polite
observations when their refutation appeared in
flesh and blood, rather excessively adorned, at

VOL. I. D

the door : followed by a pretty and rather prim-looking
young lady with fair hair and hazel eyes.

Mrs. Dalton herself was a stately dame, with
features that had by no means lost the good
looks that characterised them in youth. Stately,
perhaps, is not a very accurate word to employ
in describing her, for she moved with a certain
amount of rustling and bustling which was not
very dignified : '' buxom," in its modern and very
incorrect usage, would convey a more accurate
impression of her appearance. She had hardly
entered the room before she broke silence.

'' Dear me, Arnold, how funny it seems to see
you again to be sure, and so changed you are I
Well I declare, if you haven't grown a beard ! now
really, that is too dreadful of you. And you're
looking pretty well after all your wanderings,
only you're so sun-burnt, and I'm sure we've
been in terror all the time for fear you might be
catching Woman fever or something. Oh, Mr.
Paston ! how d'you do. Very glad to see you,
I'm sure. A medical student I think you said,
my dear ? " quoth the good lady, turning to her
husband, and then meandering on aimlessly,
and there ! the Narrows haven't arrived yet !
I do hope the dinner won't get spoiled."

She subsided comfortably into a chair, and
began talking at Paston : persisting in her notion
that that sober and successful young practitioner

was still walking the hospitals. Paston, who
was a misogynist at the best of times, felt more
keenly' than ever that women were a futile and
unnecessary section of creation. For Mrs. Dalton
was one of those persons who can never keep
their minds to any one subject for five consecutive
minutes. Carelessly brought up herself, she
had never learnt to think, and had brought up
her own family about as badly as might be. Grace
had escaped from her influence to a great extent
by having spent much of her life at school under
extremely judicious management. But the two
sons, Willie and Frank, had been less fortunate.
The former had been taken in charge by a good-natured
cousin in Texas, and had settled down
on the other side of the Atlantic to the sowing
of exceedingly tame oats. But the younger,
Frank, a hulking cub of about nineteen, had
been thoroughly spoiled in his youth by his
mother, and after a sudden and unexplained
termination of his career at school, had settled
down to waste his time thoroughly at a private
tutor's.

While Mrs. Dalton monopolised Paston, to that
worthy's exceeding discomfort, Arnold and Grace
had greeted each other with much warmth.

Well, Grace, it's a treat to see you again after
all this time," said Arnold, as he took her hand.

Thank you," she replied with a curtsey.

1) 2

But you don't seem to have been very miserable
during your absence'

Well, perhaps I haven't been shedding many
tears — but even the gayest of wanderers likes to
see the familiar faces again. Letters are all very
well ; but they aren't the real thing. Now tell
me all about everything."

So they sat down together and talked about
places that Arnold had been to, and compared
notes about cathedrals, and discussed landscapes
for a few minutes — Mrs. Dalton's alarm about
the dinner had been quite uncalled for, as the
appointed hour had not yet arrived — till they
got tired of that, and came round to local
matters.

How's old John the gardener been getting
on ? " inquired Arnold. *^ The children were over
on a visit to Mrs. Marchpane this morning, and
looked flourishing. That youngest kid — Tommy,
the mop-headed one — looked as if he might
be given to mischief. He certainly has theories
about the absorption of cake — I saw him stow a
great slice as big as his head. And he appreciated
a penny for goodies hugely. By the way,
he informed me that his principal consolation in
life was ' buUs'-eyes.' Did you ever try a bull's-eye
? "

Arnold, how can you ! Of course not : at
least not since I was ever so small — they look so

nasty and sticky. Biu old Jchn"s very v.-^H.
He has a twinge of ' rooma::z," c- Le l: -^: it.
now and then. Did I t-.x y;-.; :, :.;;: nis
joke / '■'

ArncLi turned and gazed at Grace with exaggerated
astcniskm-nt.

'' Hi j'jk- ] " k- braid. " Joknk k'ke ; Grace !'*
Ske nodded. •'"' Yes, it's quite true."
''T\'ky. tke world inu-t k- cci::iL ~o an end!
It must have kurt kim badly to yrok.;: : i",""

''TT^^lk k- didn't se-m muck k -: v:.:r :-. and
peri .y- dc 'kdn't mean it fur a kk-: k::::-kk I
found knn in tke conservatory :dv '::- .: ./.v,
watering kis kow.;-:-. >-:' I ti.vugk: I v,-iy.;.d
ingratiate n:v^vl-rkk^ ike: :, i::k>. ;::.'. " :- /.n
compi:n,.c.::: - iec: ::^ i :^-'iTi;::; .i; Icm.-.'
He w-,, ^::.>^^: iZ z:-. Ld .c: .ci:-;- :c:::::c;.li-
native. 'Aye, aye, Miss." i : ci. -^:: ^ i.zly :
'they alius grows wdl 'ere — cv-r sin' I . ic ; a. ,
Seems to me as if tk-rir w^-rv n;c::e -i ; ::-■-.
k>w grateful tk-ry wc- iso c-^ 1 . y^v :: 'v:-i —
Glory to John ! ko'jks m'j-: ii.: ; :. '.v^c-v. y- :•;.
"em. a patent, don't 'e V ' A p:\t-nt. J^'kn," said
I-L-. Mi; s^v^ ke. -" ■- ' ^~-rA
a put-i.: >j- ; A sign: u„v/„ . i^ . . :: . I
asked if ke meant a portent * 'Spos- I '.:-:-.
"miss, as you says su ! ' was the only ai :.":r I
could get out of him. He - - lily at being
corrected, and curled ur in ia - . k ac'ain."

Grace's account of the old gardener was lifelike,
and Arnold laughed heartily over it.

I suppose you heard that Mr. Armitage has
been made a Canon ? " said Grace, when they
had finished enjoying John's joke.

A Canon ? No, I hadn't heard. By Jove,
I'm glad to hear that. He deserves it, certainly.
I hope it won't take him from the neighbourhood."

No," said the girl, " it's at Copesbury ; he's
coming here to-night."

And at that moment, the new Canon was
announced. He was vicar of Burfield, and
Arnold knew him well, and left Grace to shake
hands with him and congratulate him on his
promotion.

Armitage was a tall and somewhat imposing
man ; rather pale and care-worn, perhaps, for his
years — he was still in the prime of manhood —
but muscular, and of an easy upright carriage.
Probably the slightly fatigued expression of his
face was exaggerated by the fact that he shaved
clean — a practice which, when indulged in by a
naturally dark-haired man, is wont to add to the
appearance of weariness. He was a man of wide
culture, as only the best men in his profession
usually are, unhappily ; and Arnold had always
entertained a high regard for him, heightened by
an inclination to pity him as the victim of a
certain obliquity of mental vision. The Canon

was a bachelor; lie was indeed one of those men
whom it is hard to conceive of as anything but
bachelors. The foolish est ewe in all his flock
had long given up the dream that he might one
day marry. Not that he entertained strong
views on the subject of priestly celibacy ; but
for himself, he felt that the Bride of Christ
needed all his poor devotion. He had the air
which is inseparably associated with ]parsons of
high-church views ; yet he was by no means a
narrow-minded man ; preferring for his own part
to be strict in the matter of forms and ceremonies,
but being ready to allow a larger latitude
to those whose opinions did not coincide in every
detail with his own. But moderation and breadth
of view were not in his case at any rate the
outcome of vacillation and vagueness. On the
contrary, he was a man of marked firmness and
clearheadedness ; and in the range of questions
in which he was directly interested he had long
ago made up his mind thoroughly, and was prepared
to abide by his decisions.

Conversing with such a mind, Arnold naturally
experienced the strong attraction of a character
so unlike his own ; and it was with hearty goodwill
that the two men now shook hands, when
Mrs. Dalton descended upon the new arrival.

How do you do, Canon Armitage ? There !
I'm sure you've been overworking yourself again.

Just look at him, Arnold ! doesn't he look dreadfully
tired ? So you see we've got Arnold back
again, Canon Armitage. Don't you think he's
dreadfully altered ? and with a beard too ; I'm
sure I wish he'd shave it off, though they do
say it's a great protection to the throat in cold
weather. Oh, how do you do, Mrs. Jarrow " — as
two ladies entered, " you remember Arnold, don't
you ? " . . . and so on and so on.

Mrs. Jarrow and her daughter were neighbours,
and their arrival completed the party. Dinner
was announced almost immediately, and they
paired off, — the Canon with the hostess, Paston
with Grace Dalton.

The doctor resolved to make the best of a bad
job, and lay himself out to be agreeable ; with a
firm belief in his own mind that such efforts must
be vain with a daughter of Mrs. Dalton's. Now,
when a man has made up his mind that his
companion is stupid, his conversation is not likely
to be of the finest kind, however anxious he maybe
to try and please. He generally manages to
hit on the wrong topics : and is apt to assume an
air of condescension, unwittingly.

We doctors," he remarked, " seldom get
much of ladies' society ; and when we do, we
like to make the most of it."

That was not a particularly happy beginning.

Oh," said Grace, " I should have thought

you would have plenty of lady patients ; don't
you ? "

Well, yes : but they hardly count ; they only
talk about their ailments, and that's monotonous
unless there happens to be an interesting case."

Then you don't like to confine yourself to
strictly professional subjects ? I wonder you
find time to go in for other things." Grace did
not speak with interest ; the fact being that
she wanted to hear what Arnold was saying to
Miss Jarrow : an uninteresting nondescript young
lady, to whom our friend was talking the barest
commonplaces. Seeing that Mrs. Dalton was
rattling forth volleys of very wildly aimed conversation
at'Armitage, Grace found considerable
difficulty in attaining her desire, and very little
satisfaction when she succeeded.

"Oh yes," said the doctor, "we go in for a
good many things."

'* Can you talk about them ? " said Grace
mischievously. She found Paston a little dull.
The doctor chuckled cheerfully.

"A good lot of them — take the first thing to
hand. Fish. Well, I own to knowing more
about them out of water than in it. But there's
a romance about catching them — when you can
do it. How jolly to think of steaming days
spent in peaceful repose by the margin of river
or lake watching your float bob up and down ;

or luring the guileful trout with the yet more
guileful fly ! How blissful the remembrance of
hours passed in scudding over the wine dark
sea trolling for mackerel, when the stormy winds
do blow, having first lined your bark with well-laid
sacks of sand ! Or rocking gently in some
sheltered bay to feel for the distant tug of plaice
or sole, or to lure from his low lair the casual
conger ! Passing sweet — if your stomach can
stand it."

But all Paston's grandiloquence, to say nothing
of his anticlimax, seemed wasted on his companion.
In fact, it may be doubted if many
young ladies would have found the doctor's
discourse altogether enlivening.

I don't care for the sea " was all she said.
Paston felt damped, and relapsed ; however,
Grace felt that was a little hard, and remarked
that " doctors seemed very fond of the sea,
at least they were always sending people toit."


But Paston was sulky, and answered rather
defiantly.

'' I don't know that we're always over fond of
our own prescriptions. Miss Dalton, any more
than parsons are of their own precepts. I never
could swallow a jdIII myself."

The little side-hit at the cloth drew Armitage
into the conversation.

'' We don't profess to be very different from
other people," he said with a smile.

'' Extremely glad to hear it," replied the pugnacious
doctor with an innocent air ; "I always
fancied that some preachers found their way into
the pulpit by accident."

I can't deny it altogether, I fear," said the
clergyman ; "at any rate, the reproach is truer
of our profession than of yours. Still, we are
prepared to accept the responsibility of our
teaching. Pulpit utterances, I fully believe, are
almost always conscientious. And though we
may make mistakes, we have at least as much
faith in our drugs as the other recipients."

Dear me, Canon Armitage, what do you
mean ? surely you don't go about giving medicine,
and goodness knows what mayn't happen !
You might make ever such mistakes you know,
and I'm sure I don't know what I should do if
I tried."

Thus Mrs. Dalton, who had gone astray during
these remarks. Paston dropped into grim silence.
He did not see that, even if Armitage was right,
that tended to diminish the risk of the recipients
of clerical nostrums. " Doctors and parsons,"
he said to Arnold when they were alone afterwards,
" are paid for exactly opposite reasons
we for saying what we believe, and they
for believing what they say." For the time.

however, he held his tongue. For he considered
Grace a failure, and to have continued his conversation
with Armitage would have been a
heinous offence. Talking one's own " shop " is
visited as a social misdemeanour, but beside
talking other people's shop it fades into insignificance.
Not that these said other people
resent the liberty — it gives them opportunities
of discoursing with authority : the whispers
who hang on to the skirts of a profession, and
the crowd of the uninformed, are the injured
parties.

Stick to your last," shriek Booby Primus
and Secundus, when any one tries to desert his
narrow groove in search of novelty ; "no dilettantism
here." Booby Primus and Secundus
have never had a last to stick to, and so long
as they bully other people into closing their
eyes deliberately to the nine hundred and
ninety-nine objects of concern which are not
situated vertically beneath their respective noses,
and restrict their blinking attention to the
thousandth which is, they can manage to do
pretty well without. The method is childishly
easy ; all you have to do is to set the folks with
one idea by the ears. These ideas being different
in each case, and mutually exclusive, Booby
will be hugely diverted by the consequent cross-purposes,
and laugh till the tears run down his

face. Stupid silence or equally foolish talk is
the grand result of this manoeuvring ; every man
is as good as his neighbour, and thus the reign
of Boobydom is perpetuated. Modern English
society has long been a prey to this levelling
system, and has gradually accustomed itself to the
delusion that the many-sided man is its enemy,
and must be coldly discountenanced. The only
weak point in the Booby intrigue is that no
provision has been made for repelling the interloper
when he chooses to act on the offensive.
Close up, ye champions of platitude, and defend
the breach, or your foes may rush in and dismantle
your fortress of Dulness.

In due course Arnold's health was drunk, and
every one said how glad they were to see him
back again for good, and meant it too. The
young fellow was a favourite among his neighbours,
especially the simpler ones. The men
liked him for always being on the look-out todo
them little turns in an unpretending way.
He did not come among them with new theories
which they could not understand, or interfere
with their buying and selling where and how
they liked : and he possessed that tact which is
above all things needful to secure influence, if it
is to be real yet not tyrannical. For the women,
the good souls had always taken a motherly
interest in the motherless lad ; it was with

something of a sense of property in him that
they had watched him grow from weakness to
strength ; and his better qualities were in no
small degree due to their kindly sympathy.
And had they been drawn to him by nothing
else, he would have won their hearts by his
popularity with the little ones ; for he had that
instinct of playfulness which would have made
it no purgatory to him to have realised Boswell's
notion of being shut up with an infant in a
solitary castle — a state of feeling comparatively
rare with young men. In short, he loved " all
things both great and small " — yet, if the poet's
words be true, prayer cannot be that which it
is commonly taken to be : for, if prayer be the
offering up of petitions, Arnold Eobur did not
pray.

CHAPTEE III.

AFTER Danger.

Rather I prize the doubt
Low kinds exist without,
Finished and finite clods, untroubled by a spark."

Robert Browning.

Genius has been defined as a capacity for remaining
a child though old in years. It is the
thought of Wordsworth's ' Ode ' over assail ;
essentially modern and characteristic of this
baby-worshipping age — the baby-worship being
after all nothing but the old hero and ancestor-worship
in a new form, since the child is father
of the man. Mothers, and perhaps fathers, have
probably always worshipped their own children
when they have had leisure to do so ; but who
used ever to worship other people's ? The fact
is we have suddenly discovered the charm because
we see in them representations of ourselves in
that ancestral condition when we were king-s and
queens in our little world vrith none but a few
loyal subjects and faithful friends; kings and

queens not harassed by affairs of state either,
but able to let the morrow take care of itself.

William Armitage was no genius, but he had
a large share of the simplicity of genius and of
childhood. Born of good family, sent to a public
school and thence to Oxford, he had taken orders
not long after his degree. Though he had every
chance of preferment, no one who knew him
could have suspected him of any but the highest
motives, or accused him even to themselves of
that hankering after the loaves and fishes which
is unfortunately so common a reason with those
who enter the service of the Church at the
present day. Nor did he seek advancement
when once in orders. Indeed he rather avoided
it, and rose more because it was his nature to
rise than from any effort on his own part. His
allegiance to the faith of his fathers was given in
later years with the same unquestioning reverence
for authority which had been taught to his childhood.
His surroundings at Oxford had been of
precisely the sort to foster scepticism. His
friends had been intellectual men, and few such
pass through the period of college life, when
they are beginning to know their own powers,
without feeling the necessity for religious speculation.
Yet he had hardly been touched by
scepticism. Nor was his belief of that form
which is most nearly akin to atheism, the blind

unheeding assent of thoughtlessness and conventionality,
A scholar and first-class man and a
fellow of his present college, he was and had
always been a religious man in the truest sense
of the word. He had both the will and the
power to think : and if he found the difficulties
of his position less formidable than his neighbours
did, it was neither by failing to grasp them
nor by logically overcoming them, but by accepting;
them with the humility of strength. The
freedom of thought and discussion in a circle of
college friends had enabled him to be in sympathy
with those who thought differently from
himself, so that Oxford had supplied what he
most wanted, and what Oxford can best supply,
a spirit of religious liberality and tolerance. In
short, early training had made him a churchman,
and intellectual development had saved him
from becoming a bigot. "Without being perfect
he was a clergyman of the best type that the
English Church can produce. For the rest,
though he was some years older than Arnold
Eobur, the two had long been fast friends,
and their conversation was not likely to be
limited to the commonplace topics of ordinary
acquaintances.

Dinner passed off quietly enough that evening.
Paston and Grace Dalton kept up a desultory
conversation on nothing in particular, which was

VOL. I. E

really about the most edifying subject to be had.
Canon Armitage and Mrs. Dalton discussed
Church matters — who was to be the new Bishop,
and how Mr. Smith the last curate was fretting;
on in his living : while Mr. Dalton and Arnold
talked of our hero's travels and what he had seen
and done ; of German music, Swiss mountains,
and Italian cities. We really lose a great deal
of enjoyment by the headlong way in which we
take our pleasures now-a-days. The countryman
who after drinking a glass of liqueur asked for
some o' that stuff in a moon " showed himself
susceptible to its allurements ; but his taste was
not considered unexceptionable. Do we show a
just appreciation of the good we can get out of
men and things by scampering across the continent
in a few weeks' holiday ? To Mr. Dalton's
somewhat old-fashioned and stay-at-home ideas,
Arnold's talk of his travels, recalling as it did his
own younger days when he had been something
of a wanderer, remote and slow, though hardly
unfriended or melancholy, was a treat such as he
seldom enjoyed. And Arnold always liked a
talk with the old gentleman, whose shrewd home
thrusts and proverbs gave his conversation a
pleasant flavour of originality.

AVhen the ladies rose to withdraw, Arnold
held the door open for them to pass.

I hope," he said to Grace, " you will excuse

US if we are rather late in joining you. These
gentlemen are two of my greatest friends, and I
want them to know each other better."

He should have apologised to us, Miss
Dalton," said Paston.

Oh, you don't know his conceit as I do, Mr.
Paston," said Grace, speaking to Paston, but
smiling at Arnold. " He can't imagine people
not breaking their hearts in his absence." With
which Parthian shaft she passed out before he
could answer in self-defence.

The gentlemen reseated themselves, the wine
was passed round, and an aroma of tobacco was
shortly perceptible.

'well, Armitage," said Mr. Dalton, 'hoo's a'
wi' ye ? You and my wife have been talking so
hard I've hardly exchanged a word with you."

Mrs. Dalton and I generally have something
to say to one another, sir ; we have a common
ground of interest in Church matters, if in
nothing else ; and Mrs. Dalton is always ready
to talk of them."

Ay, let a woman begin clacking, and there's
no stopping her."

A slander ! and none the truer because it's
old."

None the truer because it's old ! Set him
up ! The world's mightily changed with you
Radicals since my day. I'm a Tory, and don't

UNIVERSITY OF.
unNOlS LIBRARY

believe in Women's Eights. No. I hold with
Plato — and Battle Massey."

And Monkbarns ! " said Armitage. " Good
authority certainly."

Your modern clergyman," said Arnold, *' is
the worst of Radicals in everything bub religion.
Who are you to sneer at authority, Armitage,
when your very existence is a standing confirmation
of its necessity ? "

I suppose most heresies have been backed by
authority — of some kind' retorted Armitage.

Well, I mush leave you to fight it out,
gentlemen. I'm sorry to say I have some business
which can't wait," said Mr. Dalton, looking
at his watch, and withdrawing from the field and
the room.

Well, Kobur," said Armitage, ^' you've seen
a good deal since we foregathered last, I suppose.
Did you get any climbing ? "

Yes, I have been rather a rolling stone," said
Robur. " Oh yes ! I got some climbing both in
Switzerland and in the Eastern Alps — the Oetz-
thaler group and the Locker range."

'' Grand work that snow-climbing, isn't it ? "

Splendid ! I don't know anything finer
than snow at four in the morning to walk upon.
The strongest turf is nothing to it. Ice work is
all very well, but for pure undiluted pleasure in
the use of your limbs, give me an easy snow

slope — crisp and firm, before the sun has softened
it, and not too fresh."

And the air by itself makes yon feel twice
the man. One doesn't like to think of it in the
haunts of civilisation and black coats. It makes
one feel discontented with one's lot."

And then the fresh morning light' Arnold
continued in his rhapsody, " and seeing the early
rose-tints on the snow, and the mists sweeping
up from the valleys, while you hear nothing but
the rush of the rivers ever so far below ; and the
clouds gathering on the peaks anal sweeping along
giving you vistas ' through the opening of
cloud-curtains, through the doorways of the
heaven ' of immeasurable mountain-tops ; and
then veiling; them over ao^ain with a fringe of

o o o

glory. There's nothing like it. But I was
much more in the plains and cities than among
the mountains," he concluded, returning with a
laugh to earth.

I didn't know you were such an enthusiast
on mountains," observed Paston.

No more I am : except on occasion," said
Kobur. " But I don't sympathise with the
Yankee who said he liked travelling in Holland
best because there he could ^ smoke his cigar in
his carriage, and look out of this window and
out of that, and never see a bit of this damned
scenery all the way.' But I believe I enjoy

myself really just about as much in a town.
There's plenty to see."

Plenty ! " assented Armitage. '' Manners
and customs, if nothing else."

And churches and picture-galleries," said
Paston. '' They are the stock things, I suppose ;
but one gets rather tired of them, perhaps for
that reason."

*' I don't easily get tired of pictures," said
Arnold.

'•' I don't see why the fact that they are the
stock things ' should make one tire of them,"
observed Armitage. " Why should one object
to being like one's neighbours, and doing like
them too ? "

That's Armitage all over," laughed Arnold.
You don't seem to have any desire for originality,
Armitage. You would be quite content if
every one were just like every one else. That's
your ecclesiastical doctrine of Conformity and
Finality over again, in another shape."

"Not exactly that," replied Armitage; "but
I don't altogether believe in originality."

No. Vide Emerson. ' Every man is a
quotation from his ancestors,' &c."

Vide Emerson, as you say. But what I
mean is that I don't believe in trying to be
original — in hankering after originality. If there
is anything new in you, or any power of putting

what is old in a new way it will come out quite
as well or better without. Originality becomes
laboured and hateful when it is manifestly an
object, and obviously self-conscious."

But it has been asserted," objected Paston,
that all genius is self-conscious, and originality
is surely necessary to genius."

I don't accept the assertion," said Armitage.

"Well, but take the case of your prophets,
your preachers of new gospels — your Kingsley
and Carlyle. Are they not conscious that they
have something new to say ? "

Perhaps. But at any rate they do not start
with the desire to say something new. If they
do, they are pretty sure to be false prophets.
The desire for notoriety brings people to grief
oftener than not ; and it is merely this desire
that is at the bottom of the love of being original
• — even of telling a new story."

Either to tell or hear some new thins," said
Paston. " Jove ; your Athenian of the first
century must have been a poor sort of creature. '^

"The true pythoness," continued Armitage,
"knows that 'prophet' means 'interpreter' —
that she is inspired by a power other than her
own, and at a will outside herself. She who
dares unbidden to mount the tripod is an impostor
and adventurer."

But it is a wider question than that," said

Arnold, " and I don't know that your argument
altogether applies. Take for instance the matter
of free thought and conformity. I can't abide
men who conform in religion simply because
their neighbours do."

I don't know that I — or you either probably
have much respect for men who refuse to
conform just because their neighbours do conform,
though."

I don't remember any such," said Arnold.
But it surely needs no demonstration that
there are plenty of men who believe — or rather
profess to themselves and their neighbours that
they believe, and succeed in persuading themselves
and their neighbours of the fact, too —
surely there are plenty of men who conform in
this way simply from a desire to believe "? "

I'm afraid there are," said Armitage, " but I
believe there are as many sceptics whose desire
of the truth is assumed, both to themselves
and others, to conceal the poverty of the true
reason."

After all, is it not a laudable desire of liberty
that prompts them in any case ? " said Paston.

That's the catch word, doubtless," said Armytage,
" but any way I don't see that they gain
much by it. A state of habitual scepticism must
be very unhealthy, and irksome too, I think.
The believer is in any case at peace with himself."

An insecure peace," replied Paston, " and I
don't grant the unhealthiness."

"I do grant tke irksomeness' said Robur ;
I've been a rolling stone in more ways than
one, since last we met, Armytage''

What, you haven't got over your old difficulties
in your travels ? " said Armitage.

A rolling stone may not gather moss," said
*Paston stoutly, " but is moss the summiuii bonum
of a stone after all ? And your rolling stone is
more likely to find a firm resting-place in the
end. I'm not so sure that I wouldn't rather
have my roll, and be done with it, than stay upon
the cliff* and think I'm fixed there for eternity,
when any little bit of an earthquake may really
set me going unexpectedly — or less — you don't
want earthquakes : ordinary frost and rain will
do as well."

Which things are an allegory," said Arnold
laughing. " I hope you don't expose yourself
needlessly to the frost and rain, Armitage."

*' An argument from analogy ! And I don't
allow its validity. Besides, * if it comes to that,
sir,' the rolling stone — or rather the stone which
has rolled — is on a lower level, and has had a
fall."

So be it : it has at least firm ground to
stand upon, which the other has not," said
Paston.

So much for an analogy is all I can say,"
replied Armitage. " Some of your sceptics don't
seem to stop at all, though."

'' Ah ! those Sisyphus-stones ? " said Paston,
triumphantly supporting his analogy. "They
can't stay at the bottom when they've got there,
but must get pushed up to the top of the hill
again, by some one else, observe. I don't call
that rolling. Your rains imjjwbus is scarcely
fair argument."

So much for an analogy, again I say ! They
have themselves to thank for their scepticism.
The stone didn't ask Sisyphus to push it up
again. But these men glory in their instability.
They would not have a fixed belief for worlds."

Mere empty-headed wind-bags ! Shuttlecocks
struck this way and that by the latest
novelty in free thought — slaves of the popular is
aura — weak fools who don't want to make up
their minds, for the very good reason that they
haven't any to make up. I don't call that
scepticism. They are readers of the monthlies
and the weeklies — students of ephemeral literature
— don't know a good argument from a bad
when they see it. They are like the unclean
spirit, — walk through dry places seeking rest and
finding none, because they don't know how to
look for it," said Paston, warming to his work.

And the last state of that man is worse than

the first," observed Arnold dimly : " we'll omit
the other seven."

No, I like a thorough sceptic," proceeded
Paston, with the bit now well between his teeth :
I like a man who will examine his principles
and free them from inconsistencies if he can — •
dio hates compromises, and half measures, and
heeltaps, and is not afraid of hard names. If
I may use my stone-analogy once more — positively
the last appearance ; have you ever

noticed if you roll stones down a mountain-side
how some of them are for ever pretending to
stop and then rolling on a little further, pausing
again, and then taking another roll ? I hate
that shilly-shallying, dilettante sort of method.
I like the rock that goes down in huge bounds
and buries itself in turf at the bottom. It doesn't
always go further than the other, and it may
knock ofi" more corners — they are mere anomalies
which may well be spared — but it will never
remain in a precarious position."

'' I fear the analogy is not so certain to land
us on firm ground," said Armitage. " But to
return to our shuttlecocks. I am glad to have
your authority for despising them. I always
find them the most disagreeable people in the
world ; because they are the most dogmatic, and
have the least right to be so on their own
principles."

^'Oh yes!" said Arnold, 'would that they
would confine themselves consistently, like the
New Academy, to the doctrine that they can
know nothing — not even the fact of that very
ignorance of wdiicli they assert themselves to be
aware ! "

It's all of a piece," said Paston ; '' they are
always pleased with each new article they read,
and hold it with the utmost tenacity until it is
bowled over in the next number of some other
magazine. For their own oracles they have the
most absurd reverence — for the scripta est of
their peculiar organ : and accordingly they
generally end in taking orders in the English
Church — if I may be pardoned for saying so."

Pray don't apologise," said Armitage, to
whom the last remark was more particularly
addressed. " I always think it hard that people
should look upon it as a breach of etiquette to
speak out the truth before a clergyman. Fm
afraid that in itself is not altogether a good sign
of the position of the Church just now."

'•' I suppose nobody is apt to be over well
pleased by home-truths as to the state of his
own profession," observed Paston.

No, but surely a clergyman ought to be the
last man to wish to shut his eyes to the facts,
however unpleasant they may be."

It always strikes me as particularly absurd,"

said Arnold, '' to hear a man come out with an
oath in the presence of a clergyman and then
apologise for it. It's as if he thought he ought
to be on his crowd behaviour before the cloth — as
if clergymen were to be censors over us, not
sympathisers with us, to be dreaded, not confided
in : it's a separation of clergy from laity,
and defrauding them of their humanity, which I
never can subscribe to."

That's all very well in the abstract," said
Paston. " Homo sum no doubt ought to be the
clergyman's principle, above all men. But I can
understand the feeling with many clergymen —
men who have no sympathy with you ; and to
whose profession you feel bound to pay the
respect which you often do not feel for themselves."


But I don't see that the fact of the quondam
sceptic generally ending in taking orders is at alla
bad sign necessarily of the state of the Church,"
said Armitage. " We generally rather pride ourselves
on having room for all shades of opinion in
the English Church."

o

*' Yes, but I think a good many of them aren't
quondam sceptics — if you can call it scepticism at
all," said Paston. " It's mere lip-conformity in
many cases. I fancy there's a good deal of
atheism among the clergy — atheism, that is, not
of denial, but of indifference — atheism of the

Gallic type. One often hears of men joining the
Church of Some, when, from what one knows of
their habits of thought, one may feel quite sure
that it is only a cutting of the Gordian knot, an
escape from doubts ad difficulties which they
have not the courage or the strength to face
fairly. That is a kind of intellectual teetotalism
which I think can only be defended in the case
of habitual drunkards, whose strength of mind is
destroyed by a course of uninterrupted excesses."
But your catholicity of the English Church
is gained at the expense of an illogical position,"
said Arnold. '' It's neither one thing nor another.
It pretends to be dogmatic, and requires assent to
certain articles of faith — and a large section of it
certainly does believe in them and require other
people to believe in them too. But many men
religious men, I mean — not your lip-servants,
Paston — do enter the service of the Church
without assenting otherwise than verbally to
the Articles. At least, if not, they use the term
assent in a sense which is not only different from,
but almost diametrically opposed to, the ordinary

one."

At any rate," answered Armitage, " their
object is right enough ; and they can see no
other method of serving God in the way they
want to, giving up, that is, their lives to His
service, than by taking orders. Are they then

to surrender their purpose because of the difficulties
of conforming, when after all their assent
is understood by every one to be a mere matter
of form ? "

"I didn't know," said Arnold, "that the
English Church accepted the principle of doing
evil that good may come. However I don't
mind individuals holding such an opinion —
they've got a perfect right to it. But my
quarrel is not with them, but with the position
of the Church, which makes it necessary."

"But the English Church aims at being;
Catholic, and any such comprehensiveness must
by the nature of the case be based on compromise."


That compromise is just what I object to.
Look where it leads. Legal fictions are all very
well. Law is a matter between man and man,
and there can be no objection to your saying
one thing and meaning another, provided the
person to whom you say it understands what
you actually do mean. But when it comes to
your subscribing to what you don't believe, in
the very act of the dedication of your life to
the service of the God of Truth — when that
nominal assent is an integral part of the act of
dedication — well, all I can say is, it doesn't seem
to me to look well for the system which makes
it necessary."

' What moderation, and understatement, and
checking his thunder in mid-volleys'" quoted
Armitage, smiling. " But really after all it's
merely a matter between a man and his bishop.
Not to mention that there are few beliefs which
cannot be reconciled with the Articles."

It's rather significant," retorted Arnold,
somewhat bitterly, " that a priest of the English
Church should say so. But my dear Armitage,"
he continued more quietly, " surely you can
hardly look upon all this as healthy ? A man
once called me a purist for holding these views.
Perhaps I am : but surely the clergy, if any one,
ought to be purists in such matters."

"And if the Articles are no test of faith,"
added Paston, pertinently, "why in the name
of goodness keep out good men by retaining
them ^ "

"They're ornamental," said Arnold: "relics
of antiquity — serve to link the present with
the past — Palladium of British Liberties with
a capital L, you know, like Magna Charta and
Habeas Corpus."

There's a good deal in that, though you do
say it with a sneer, Eobur," said Armitage, good-humouredly.
" Not that I deny that we are
much in need of some reforms in the English
Church. But I think there's a practical use in
the retention of the Articles, beyond the fact

that they belong to the past and mark the
Church as a historic one. They serve as a bond
for rather heterogeneous materials, and hold the
Church together, while they don't seriously affect
its catholicity. Take away the Articles, and I
am afraid the result would be a rapid disintegration."


*' I rather doubt the disintegration," said
Paston, ^'and I don't see that much o-ood is trained
by combining heterogeneous materials with what
seems to me a sham bond. When people generally
agreed to interpret the Articles of faith in
one way, there was some point in it : but surely
we have outgrown that ; and I am certain that
they keep out a number of good men by reason
of that very conscientiousness which would
otherwise make them most useful."

'' Of course the whole thing is a compromise,"
said Armitage, "and compromise is only justified
by circumstances : and as circumstances are
bound to alter, compromise should always be
elastic."

Only you think," said Arnold, " that this
compromise has been sufficiently elastic. Well,
I don't. Look at the unity of the Church now.
It is split up into wrangling and mutually
hostile parties : one side can't let the others
worship in their owen way, but must even suborn
men to create litigations — artificially produce

VOL. I.

'aggrieved parishioners' to object to matters of
millinery and ceremony : while the Broad Church
party, who try to keep clear of both, and to be
really catholic, are placed in a false position and
abused by both sides."

But if ordinances and tests of faith were
abolished," objected Armitage, *' the narrow-minded
party, or rather, the party who like a
narrow, sharply-defined Mth, would secede."

I think not, if the Church were not disestablished,"
said Arnold.

'' Could such a reform be effected without
disestablishment ? " said Armitage.

Good riddance too if they did secede," said
Paston. "They would not flourish any more
than they are doing now. And the Church
would be the better for having got rid of
them."

The Church would certainly be as well able
to stand without them' said Arnold. " But as
to your question, Armitage, I certainly was not
contemplating disestablishment or disendowment.
I think the abolition of tests — or a very great
modification at least, — and perhaps — though I
know you'll object to this — the participation of
the laity in Church government, — I think these
two reforms could stand alone, and would do a
great deal to remedy the evils which seem tome,
perhaps, greater than they do to you. But

after all, you know," he concluded with a smile,
'lookers on see most of the game, and I'm a
looker on."

*' You'll take a hand before long, I've no
doubt," said Armitage, smiling in turn. '' I
certainly don't accept your idea of lay government,
though. The Church ought to be a
Theocracy, not a Democracy."

'' Vox popish vox Dei'' said Paston.
I don't object to that principle as applied
to politics," answered Armitage : " I should be
very sorry to see a priest-ridden state : but when
it comes to Church matters I dissent."

And yet you stand up for Church and
State," said Arnold.

"I do, so far as the preservation of a close
connexion between them is concerned."

What a lover of compromise you are,
Armitage ! " said Arnold. " Your views are
always modified by circumstances. They never
seem to be ideal."

If they are practical I am satisfied," said
Armitage; *' I retort your homo sum. Man is
by nature a political animal, and therefore a
practical one, for society is based upon compromise.
It is absurd to say that we are not
the creatures of circumstances : so far from being
able to rule them, we are fortunate if we can
modify our ends to suit them''

F 2

Armitage's imperturbable good temper was
one of the strongest links between him and
Arnold, while Armitage was always much
attracted by Arnold's earnest and sometimes
enthusiastic way of attacking a question. By
this time each of them knew that he could say
to the other things that he could not say
to any chance acquaintance : and the very
divergence of their views on many topics seemed
to draw them closer together, because it really
indicated that the tempers of their two minds
were to a great degree complementary of one
another.

The conversation gradually turned from ecclesiastical
to political questions, and thence to
matters of general interest, the news of the day,
dynamite, crofters, relations with our colonies
and with foreign powers ; and it was a good
while before they adjourned to the drawing-room
and found Grace Dalton presiding over
the coffee.

You must have been discussing something
interesting all this time," she said to Paston :
something too high for the flippant feminine
mind."

By no means," said Arnold, anticipating
Paston's reply : "I assure you we've been as
dull as possible : only after that last remark of

yours, I thought we* had better not show ourselves
too soon."

"Ah! it rankled, did it?" said Grace.
Well, you've taken your revenge."

"At the expense of — well, of a taradiddle,"
observed Paston. "We've really had a very
lively discussion."

I assure you I've been getting badly
mauled," said Armitage, cheerfully. " Won't
you sing something. Miss Dalton, to remedy
the depressing effects of the treatment I've been
undergoing ? "

Grace Dalton had a slight but pleasant voice,
and sang with taste — in short her performances
might be called pretty, though nothing more.
Generally, however, the effect was marred by
]airs. Dalton's invariable habit of not ceasing to
talk in a loud voice the whole time. On this
occasion she victimised Paston, the ' medical
student' as she insisted on supposing him to
be, and would talk of nothing but doctors and
doctoring, in a way that caused him intense
agony — not only from her gauclierie in the
treatment of the subject, but also from his own
desire to listen to Grace, his wish not to be
rude to Mrs. Dalton (a wish all the more powerful
from her own rudeness to him), and a feeling
that he was aiding and abetting, however

unwillingly, the crime of interrupting good music.
Arnold tried to relieve him, but Mrs. Dalton
was far too pertinacious for that to succeed.
The others, however, were not much disturbed
by this piece of ill - breeding, for they were
accustomed to it, and for them the evening
passed off pleasantly enough.

CHAPTER IV.

A COUNTRY FAMILY.

A child, more than all other gifts

Brings hope with it, and forward looking thoughts,
And stirrings of inquietude, when they
By tendency of nature needs must fail."

Wordsworth.

Ashen the ' perfectly orful-looking female '
exclaimed to Artemis Ward, ' You are my
Affinity ! ' he not unnaturally shouted, ' What
upon art is that '? ' And when she, incredulous
of his ignorance, proceeded to ask, ' Dost thou
not know ' ? he answered defiantly, ' Neo, I
content.' Most people are like Artemis Ward
in this, in spite of much good authority from
Aristophanes downwards ; and, however it may be,
it is certain that some people come across and
o^et attached to not their Affinities but their
Antitheses ; and that without always ending ina
divorce-court.

Mr. Dalton was one of these unfortunate men.
His partner in life was a good-hearted, comfortable
woman whose absolute want of tact

and invariable way of saying the wrong thing —
unless by accident — would bave been most exasperating
to a nervous or fastidious man ; the
more exasperating because there was no malice
about it. Mr. Dalton was a man of considerable
refinement of taste, and no one knew how keenly
he felt his wife's shortcomings. His own manner
among strangers was polished : in his own home-circle
and among those he knew well there was
a certain homeliness and freedom of expression
sometimes amounting to brusqueness : but it
seldom gave offence, because, as a rule, it was
only used where it was understood. He was
generally looked upon as a shrewd man with a
will of his own, and well able to take care that
he had that will. At the same time it was
whispered that his wife ruled him — that, as he
himself would have put it, ' the gray mare was
the better horse.' This calumny, however, was
due solely to the inability on the part of the
calumniators to understand why he should have
married such a wife, unless she made him do so.
Those who knew him well, knew that he was
master in his own house ; and further, that
although he had a will of his own he had also a
soft place in his heart, which suggested a possible
explanation of the situation, and in fact the
true one. Few people knew that he had married
Mrs. Dalton more out of pity than love, when

lie was left alone in the world on the death of
her mother, and when their relations had been at
first entirely owing to the consequent; business
transactions. This fact was a key to his character,
Unless he had changed a good deal
since the time of his marriage, he had probably
abused himself pretty soundly for his folly, and
been quite aware of the defects of his intended
before he married her. But he never cried over
spilt milk, and whatever may have been his feelings,
no word of complaint had ever betrayed
them to his wife or anyone else. In the same
way, in his dealings with other men his bark
was always worse than his bite. He would
grumble, and abuse any applicant for a favour,
and himself for being such a fool as to listen to
them, and end probably by doing more than was
asked of him — perhaps after dismissing the applicant
with a peremptory refusal. The person who
knew his character best, and therefore exercised
a sway over him which no one else had, was his
daughter Grace, who understood how to sacrifice
the shadow of authority for the sake of the substance,
and therefore seldom failed to have her
own way with her father.

He had been very anxious that Arnold should
have a profession, and had strongly urged him
before he left Cambridge to enter at one of the
Inns of Court and read for the Bar. Arnold had

declined to do so at that time, saying he felt no
inclination for the Bar, and that he thought of
travelling for a time before settling down. Mr.
Dalton took him up sharply.

Well, well, I've said my say, and I wash my
hands of it ! He that will to Cupar maun to
Cupar." (Mr. Dalton had spent many of his
early years north of the Tweed.) "Not but
what you might do worse than see a little of
the world before you take uj) a definite line,
and as you're a man of independent means
there's no hurry. But money or no money, a
man's got no right to fool away his time doing
nothing. ' Satan finds some mischief still for
idle hands to do,' Arnold Eobur ! " (He was very
fond of using both Christian and surname in
apostrophe, especially in the course of an admonition.)
" However, you must do as you
please — it's neither beef nor brose o' mine, and
I've told you what I think."

Arnold had done as he pleased, but had not
felt much the better for it — had not, that is,
realised how much the better he was for it. As
yet he felt only that things were a good deal
changed. Mr. Dalton's grumbling: brood-nature,
his proverbs and Scepticism, Mrs. Dalton's
vacant vulgarity and want of any qualities with
which he was in sympathy, were all the same
as ever ; yet, though he felt them to be the

same, he felt that they were changed for him.
His guardian's house was no longer the home
that it had once been for him. Nor was it the
change in Grace, though that was a part of it.
He had left her not much more than a schoolgirl.
She was certainly not a schoolgirl now,
and yet he somehow felt as if his relation to
her was less changed than anything else about
the place.

Grace Dalton was pretty, and when that has
been said there is not much left. Her education
had been of the Pre-Girtonite type, which
aimed principally at prettiness. She inherited
her father's taste, and being a girl of average
wits could do most things as she was expected
to do them. She danced well, had a sweet but
not powerful voice ; sang ' nicely ' as the ladies
say ; played correctly, but without any particular
brilliancy ; drew and painted as her masters had
taught her, but without much power or artistic
feeling ; dressed and moved gracefully ; spoke
French and German fairly ; and talked commonplace
by the hour pleasantly enough. If the
'higher' education of women is apt too often
to produce gargoyles, the ' lower ' (if it may be
called so for the sake of antithesis) in many —
nay, in most — cases produced wax-dolls. Not
that Grace was a wax-doll — by no manner of
means : but she would have been but for a

certain amount of spirit which made her something
more than a mass of accomplishments.

Papa," she said, as she handed Mr. Dalton
his coffee next morning. — Mrs. Dalton considered
punctuality to be the thief of time, and therefore
her daughter generally presided at the breakfast-table
— " what time will Frank be coming today?"


I don't know what time he's coming," replied
Mr. Dalton. '' I should like to know what business
that same lazy young vagabond of a brother
of yours has to be coming home at all just now.
He ought to be hard at work like his betters."

You wouldn't be so unnatural as to check
his desire for the delights of home, would you,
papa ? " said Grace, smiling rather maliciously.

Delights of home, quo' she ! " exclaimed her
father, apostrophising his poached egg. " Delights
of pure idleness, you mean. Home indeed
! It's nothing more or less than sheer and
absolute laziness on his part."

It was perfectly true. Mr. Dalton's bitterest
words usually were ; a fact which did not lessen
their sting. He often saw and stated the truth,
when his actions did not seem to show any discernment
of it. It would have been better for
Frank, and sometimes for other people, had he
always acted on his rather keen insight.

'' He's but a feckless ne'er-do-weel, that brother

of yours — " he continued, 'San idle, good-for-nothing
young goose that hasn't got two ideas
in his head. I wish you and he would lay your
two apologies for heads together and devise something'
for him to do, tliouo;h how you're to set
anything out of brains that haven't got anything
in them, — Lord knows ! And what the use is of
a young fellow that won't make up his mind to
anything, I don't see."

I thought you had ' made up your mind ' tolet
him go in for the army, as he wanted to,"
said Grace demurely.

"Wanted to! aye, wanted! I wonder how
long he'll want to ! You'll do all you can to
keep him to it, though. Trust a woman for
that. They're like turkey-cocks and bulls — all
alike if you wave a red rag."

*' Somebody said the other day that a good
uniform was the best recruiting-sergeant," said
Grace : ''I believe men are every bit as bad as
we are, papa."

Fiddlestick ! It's only because it pleases the
womankind," retorted Mr. Dalton. " But as to
Frank, I've no mortal objection to his going into
the army, if he'll only take the trouble to pass.
But I don't see the use of my keeping him on
my hands and teaching him all sorts of things
which are of no possible use to any one except
for passing into Sandhurst, if he's going to get

ploughed and have to take up something else,
and begin again at the beginning."

^' Oh ! papa, I'm sure Frank will pass ; besides
you said yourself the other day that no one
but a born fool could help passing into Sandhurst."


And what's your brother Frank but a born
fool and idiot ? " responded Mr. Dalton genially.
However, I suppose you're right : we'll see,
though. Needs must, when the d — ahem ! —
woman drives."

Mr. Dalton knew something of his son's character,
and the circumstances under which
Frank's school career had been cut short had
not altered his opinion for the better. He was
unsparing as far as words went, though he did
his duty and more than his duty by the boy.
But hard words do far more than unkindness inaction
to alienate affection, and Frank, who was
incapable of looking into what underlay his
father's manner, had quite lost touch of him ;
so that they had none of the good understanding
that existed between Mr. Dalton and Grace.

"You don't know what time he's coming then,
papa ? '' Grace asked again.

Oh ! I suppose he'll be here to lunch. He's
pretty sure to come as soon as he can in the day.
By the way, do you know anything of Arnold
Eobur's movements ? "

''He told Mr. Armitage he would go with
him to Copesbuiy to-day, I think."

Ay, he did say so — now you mention it, I
admit that he did say he was going down there.
And then he's Soin off to ' somewhere or other '
on the seaside to ' recruit ' after his travels, save
the mark ! Why can't he recruit here, I should
like to know ? "

Doctor's orders, I suppose," said Grace.

Oh yes ! Paston, I suppose. He's a 
chap, that, too. But it's mere love of moving
about. He'll take a lot of settling down. He's
a regular gad-about. It's one thing to set
yourself going, and another thing, and a very
different thing, to stop yourself when once
you're started. It's easier to raise the devil
than to lay him by a long way."

' Chalks,' as Frank would say," observed
Grace laughing. " But I should think Arnold
would find it rather slow at Oakleigh by himself.
He's not going to the seaside immediately ? "

'* I don't know how soon he's going," said Mr.
Dalton. " Yes, I daresay he will find it a bit
lonesome in that big house of his all by himself.
But for that matter he must pickle in his ain
pock-neck, and just make the best of it he can.
He'll be bringing home a wife to his ingle one of
these days, I daresay. And any way there's
plenty of work to be done in the world, and so

long as you've got your hands full, you're not
likely to feel lonely."

Grace laughed, not very heartily. '' I can't
imagine Arnold as a married man," she said.
The notion did not strike her as an attractive
one.

But," she continued pertinaciously, " it's all
very well to talk of work, but how is he going
to get it to do ? "

Oh ! so long as a man's got his wits about
him and the proper use of his arms and legs,
he'll have no difficulty in getting work to do, if
only he'll set himself to it. There's none so deaf
as those who won't hear ; and when a man says
he can't get work, you may be pretty sure it
means that he's too idle to take it."

Mr. Dalton always liked to establish his statements
on universal rules, but his generalisations
were apt to be rather hasty in consequence. His
prophecy as to his son's movements however
turned out to be well-founded. Frank turned
up before lunch.

He was a big awkward lad of about nineteen,
with the manners and appearance, but for his
size, of a lower-school boy. If Grace had inherited
her father's qualities rather than her mother's,
her brother had reversed the operation to some
extent — though it would be scarcely fair to Mrs.
Dalton to say that Frank was his ' mother's son.'

Still, he was a very good instance of the failure
of early home education. His natural good
qualities, whatever they may have been, had
remained undeveloped under the care of a mother
who knew nothing of boys, and was totally wanting
in insight. He had grown up an ignoramus
with no strength of character and none of those
sterling principles which are generally supposed
to be acquired in the bosom of one's family
rather than in the trials and struggles of life
among other boys at a public school. Had he
enjoyed more of his father's care and less of his-mother's,
the case might have been different.
But women are unfortunately supposed to befitted
by nature to educate, and able to dispense
with any special training, while men are expected
to do nothing more than support their families ;
and it is hardly surprising that Mr. Dalton
should have seen but little of his son's life before
he went to school. The consequence was that
at school Frank was a failure : he remained ina
low form, an incorrigible idler, both in work
and games, distinguished for nothing among his
fellows, unless it be that his superior weight and
strength enabled him successfully to bully the
small boys of his form. Friends he had none :
parasites one or two, destined, alas ! to follow in
his footsteps unless some guardian angel intervened
: and a few associates of the same stamp

VOL. I. G

as himself. These kindred spirits generally band
together, whether it is merely because like seeks
like, or because no one else will associate with
them, or because there is a certain mutual advantage
in the combination, and by knowing one's
neighbour's failings one becomes less alive to
one's own : certainly it is not from any feeling
which can be called friendship, for the slightest
strain is sufficient to snap the tie. It may be
true enough and just enough to talk of ' happy
boyhood ' : but a lower-school form is sometimes
a veritable pandemonium — and no reproach to
prefects either, valuable as their good example
may be, for they are, and must be in the nature
of things, in a different sphere : Epicurean gods
living apart in blest abodes a careless life, and
knowing nought of the joys and sorrows of
mortals — in the Lower Third.

But to return to Frank : after spending some
two years at school, in favour with neither men,
gods, nor masters, he retired against his will,
prematurely and abruptly, into private life. His
place knew him no more, and probably the
jfrnoYsmce was found to be bliss. Since that
time he had been at a tutor's, where the best
thing he learnt was how to smoke. A boy who
leaves school early and is sent to a tutor seldom
improves there. His habits may change, and he
may acquire some small — usually very small —

amount of useless information, but the tone of
his mind is not apt to be altered for the better.
Frank was by nature undeniably stupid, and
neither early education nor the cribbing and
copying and shirking of his school life had improved
his faculties, so that it was not to be
expected that the relaxed discipline of a private
tutor's establishment would suit him for learning



His mother had always petted and spoiled him
from his earliest days upward, and now reaped
the usual reward of such conduct in his entire
indifference towards her affection : though this
perhaps wounded her less than it might have
wounded some people. With his father he was
at cross purposes, and his behaviour to him was
apt to be rude or at least sullen, as if in enforced
obedience to a master he feared but did not
love. To Grace alone he showed a sort of canine
affection — or rather feline, for it was not altogether
to be relied upon — outside his usual selfishness.
But neither to her nor to any one else
was he otherwise than reticent as to his private
proceedings. Perhaps, however, they where not of
sufficient interest even to himself to justify his
inflicting them on his neighbours.

He came in and tolerated the embraces of his
mother and sister with all a schoolboy's assumption
of ennui at a customary but superfluous
ceremony. At lunch Mr. Dalton asked him

G 2

what his tutor thought of his chance of passing
his ' preliminary ' for Sandhurst — for it was not
of much use to think of the further examination
yet.

Oh ! I don't know," he replied with a drawl
which was only not affected because the nonchalance
which it denoted had become a second
nature to him. " You see they're so confoundedly
hard on a fellow — plough nearly every one who
goes in."

No wonder, seeing that they get half the
gowks in the kingdom," said his father. 'but
what business has anybody to get ploughed in
subjects he ought to have known by the time he
was ten years old, I should like to know ? "

Oh ! the subjects aren't so stiff," answered
Frank. "But they floor you for the slightest
thing. Three mistakes in English dictation,
you know."

And ' fat the deil ' is a man fit to do in this
blessed world of Board-schools and Education
Acts if he can't write a piece of the Queen's
English without making mistakes in it ? You
must have your bread buttered for .you, my
young man, before you can afford to luxuriate in
ignorance in that sort of way," said Mr. Dalton :
although " (this word he was in the habit of
saying slowly, pronouncing the ' th ' as in the
word ' thick ') " although for that matter it's not

every one that has his bread buttered that is ina
position to dispense with the use of the three
R's."

That's all very well," muttered Frank sulkily.
'' I'd like to see some people try their hand at
dictation, though they do think they know such
a lot about everything." Frank, like most
dunces, was apt to be sceptical, especially when
nettled, of a degree of knowledge which was
outside his experience and comprehension.

It's very hard, I do think," "said Mrs. Dalton,
not unconscious of certain failings of her own.
They ought not to be so strict with young men
just leaving school."

When they can't be expected," observed
Mr. Dalton, sarcastically, " to have learnt how to
write, spell, and cipher. However, we must take
things as we find them ; the ordeal has to be
undergone, I suppose, and we must make the
best of it we can."

Frank had become sullen, and at the best of
times he did not shine much in conversation.
On this occasion Mr. Dalton monopolised the
talk and lectured his son freely.

And if you're not going to pass into the army,
what is it your gracious will and pleasure to do
with your highness's most noble self ? " he continued.
" I suppose if you can't make up your
mind to work for one thing you're not likely to

make up your mind to work for another. But
let me tell you you can't make a place a bawbee
by sitting still and expecting it to grow in your
pocket, nor can you earn your livelihood with
doing nothing; so you'd just better give over
sittings glowering there like a wild cat out of an
ivy-tod, and set yourself thinking what you're
going to turn your hand to."

Frank grumbled something about it being " a
mighty lot of use to talk in that way, when
he'd been grinding like a nigger for the last six
months."

Yes, and a mighty lot of use it is, too, my
paying Mr. Johnson your tutor Lord knows how-much
a year to coach you for Sandhurst, if you're
going to fail after all. What use will all the
thousand and one things they expect you to
know at Sandhurst be to you — "

Reading, writing, and ciphering," observed
Grace in a malicious parenthesis.

"Upon my word!" said her father, turning
upon her and screwing up his eyes — a gesture
which he very commonly used when bandying
words, especially with Grace. It made him look
short-sighted, which he actually was not, and
also added much the same intimidating air of
close inspection which some young men assume
by mounting a single eyeglass, and some old men
by looking over the rims of their spectacles.

Hark at her ! " he continued severely, "just
hark at her ! And who gave you leave, Miss, to
put in your opinion before it was asked for ?
The airs the rising generation give themselves — !
Set her up ! Much difficulty there would be in
passing into the army if you could do it with
reading, writing, and arithmetic."

Grace did not retort by quoting her father's
disrespectful dictum as to the ease of the examination
in question. She smiled a self-satisfied
smile at the rebuke she had aimed at and attained,
was silent and ' thought the more,' perhaps : and
presently led the conversation into a pleasant
channel for her brother. Frank however was
out of humour and took little or no part in it ;
though for that matter he never found the talk
at home of a sufficiently congenial character to
make him otherwise than indifferent to it. Indeed
it may be doubted whether he took a very lively
interest in any conversation at all, unless it where
concerned with does and horses. At home his

o

manner was always constrained and listless,
especially in his father's presence.

After lunch Grace went out into the garden to
enjoy the afternoon sunshine. Frank followed her,
and after walking by her side silently for sometime,
meditation whether he should indulge in a
quiet smoke, took her to task somewhat gruffly.

T see you've been at the guv'nor about

letting me shoot at Sandhurst, Grace," he said,
not very cheerfully.

'' We were talking about it," said Grace. '' I
thought you were so anxious to try."

Oh ! it's such a confounded grind, you know.
Old Johnson's always expecting a fellow to be
smuggling at those beastly books all day. And
as for teaching you anything, he might as well
try to fly. I call it beastly rot."

In fact, a coach ought to put everything you
want to learn into your head without any trouble
on your part, eh ? " said Grace with a laugh.

This was precisely Prank's view, though he
did not own it. Moreover he could hardly be
expected to make due allowance for the Quality
of the material on which Mr. Johnson had to work,
in estimating that gentleman's teaching powers.

And then the guv'nor always cuts up rough,"
he continued, disregarding Grace's remark. " It's
nothings but nor, nash, nao; from morning tonight
when I'm here. I swear it's enough to
make a fellow cut the whole concern and emigrate,
or something or other."

The vagueness of this last remark was characteristic
of Frank's views on all questions of
action. He always found it very hard to have
to make up his mind to do anything, and invariably
put off decision to the last moment. Grace
wondered to herself whether he thought he could

live at ease in the colonies without doing any
work, or whether like some political economists
he merely looked upon ' emigration ' as a sort
of mysterious panacea for all human ills. However,
she was concerned less to examine his state
of mind just now than to pour oil on the troubled
waters : for the relation between him and his
father was very unpleasant to her.

It's very absurd of you, Frank," she said
severely. "You know papa doesn't mean half
he says, and he wouldn't talk at you in the way
he does if you only took it a little more good-humouredly.
One would suppose from the way
you treat it all ait grand serieux\hdX he was really
severe, instead of giving you all the chances he
has."

Well, I wish he wouldn't jaw so," grumbled
Frank : " it's enough to make a cat sick the way
he keeps on at it from morning to night."

Come now, you know that's all nonsense,
Frank. It's only his way. He doesn't mean it ;
and besides it is rather annoying to find you
throwing up everything, and refusing to set fairly
to work and do your best."

I like that ! when I've been grinding like
the deuce for ever so long, to be told I won't do
any work," rejoined Frank.

You don't look so very much worn out
after it all," she said. " And what's the use if

nothing's to come of it ? If only you'd try and
do something — but you can't expect papa to
keep you forever, you know. You must make
your own bread sooner or later, and he's given
you every chance of earning a living."

Hang it all, the guv'nor's got plenty of cash ! "
said Frank. " I don't see why I need work as
if I was the son of a ploughman ! I suppose I
shall always have enough tin to keep me going,
if that's all ; and where's the use of bothering so?"

Why, Frank, it's absurd of you to talk as if
you didn't know you must make your own way.
What's the use of being a man if you're to be
dependent on your father all your life ? You're
lucky enough in having such a good chance of a
start as it is."

I swear you're as bad as the guv'nor himself
for jawing a fellow, Grace," said Frank. "I
don't see why you can't let me alone. You're
always pitching into me."

The two strolled on in silence for a time,
Grace disappointed, and both of them rather
nettled. Frank could not for the life of him
understand what was the use of working if you
had a chance of being idle. The deification of
labour was beyond his comprehension, though
Mr. Dalton lost no opportunity of impressing
its excellence on him. It is unfortunately too
often stated with all the authority of the pulpit

that the necessity of labour came into the world
with sin at the Fall. To preach that work is a
necessary evil, instead of a boon given by God
to men, is to recommend the life of the Point in
Lapland,' absorbed in eternal beatitude of self-thought,
where self is nothing. But too many
of us take this jaundiced view of things, and
Frank was one of these. Perhaps it would have
been better for him if he had actually been the
son of a ploughman.

** I tell you what it is," said Frank with sudden
energy, 'i'm going to cut this Sandhurst business.
It isn't good enough by half. It's a confounded
deal too much sweat. I don't care what
I do, but I'm going to cut that."

Now don't, Frank," pleaded Grace : "do be
reasonable and stick to it. You know it'll annoy
papa so. Besides, that'll you do instead ? "

I don't care," said Frank sullenly. '• It's no
go. I'm sick of this eternal grind ; and besides,
I shan't pass anyhow. The guv'nor must just
make the best of it."

It's very unfair to him too," said Grace.
It wasn't his fault you left school : and now
you're throwing this up."

'' I don't see why you need rake up all a
fellow's old misfortunes," said Frank, with an
injured air. '' It's beastly rough to have that
thrown at my head after all this time."

If you kept it in mind," said Grace sadly,
'' I shouldn't have to remind you of it." Grace
knew, and felt as Frank certainly never felt it,
how he had left school, though she never knew
what his offence was.

Mr. Dalton, however, did not receive Frank's
announcement of his views as ill as Grace had
expected, for he had had very little faith in his
son's strength of purpose, and less in his ability
to pass.

Well, well ; what must be must be. I suppose
if you don't choose you won't. One man
may lead a horse to water, but twenty can't
make him drink. Though what the deil you're
going to do with yourself is more than I can
say."

However, he determined that Frank should
not go back to his tutor. " If you're to eat the
bread of idleness anywhere, my young friend,
you'd better eat it here. You can do nothing
just as well here as there, and I shan't be paying
for the privilege all the time ; and as you don't
learn anything from our friend Mr. Johnson,
there's no reason in life why he should be pretending
to teach you. Doubtless ' there's sma'
sorrow at your parting, as the auld near said to
the broken cart.' "

Frank's very limited library was accordingly
sent for, and he remained at Beau Sejour.

CHAPTER V.

Heraclitus AND DEMOCRITUS.

If a company works a steam fire-engine, the firemen needn't be
straining themselves all day to squirt over the top of the
flagstaff. Let them wash some of those lower-story windows
a little." — The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.

Mrs. Marchpane was seated under the old mulberry
tree at the end of the grass walk, surrounded
by a clucking crowd of citizens from the miniature
hamlet of fowl-houses and hen-coops close by.
With a big ball of grey wool and a shapeless
mass of substantial knitting on her lap, she
looked like a sort of Minerva in homespun, a
comfortable personification of housewifery. At
present, however, the click of her needles was
silent, as she sat contemplating the ridiculous
movements of the fowls as they poked and
pecked about her. " My chicks," she said, " how
happy you look. You don't trouble yourselves
with other people's business — or your own either,
if you can only get enough to eat." But here
her meditations were interrupted by a slow footstep
on the grass, and she began busily knitting

again, as she looked up and murmured, "Here's
Joshua Gibbins, with a face as long as my arm."

Mr. Gibbins was the bailiff of the Oakleio^h
estate. But he was by no means the jovial personage
one naturally expects such a functionary
to be in the pages of orthodox and legitimate
fiction. On the contrary, remarkable and unpromising
as the fact may appear, it is certain
that he wore habitually an appearance of excessive
dejection. Not that he was morose ; far from it.
Indeed, to say that he was constitutionally mild
would give but a faint idea of his sunless serenity.
But his whole demeanour was tinged with melancholy.
Guiltless of thought or erudition, his
mental attitude was unmistakably morbid. His
nature was like one of those winter days with
which we are unhappily too familiar in this
country — days of thaw, unpleasantly moist and
muddy, but calm. In short he was a gentle
unbeliever in the possibility of happiness, a placid
pessimist.

At the sight of this philosopher's advancing
figure, Mrs. Marchpane's mirth, of which a vast
store had been accumulating within her ever
since Arnold's arrival, and now stood sadly in
need of a safety-valve, suddenly made its escape
in a voluminous rush of laughter. Gibbins
stood dumb-foundered. It was as bad as if he
had found himself at Constantinople and been

commanded by the Sultan to dance a hornpipe
or be bow-strung on the spot. Such a triumphant
vindication of the existence of happiness it had
never been his fortune to meet with before,
and he was proportionately astounded by the
experience.

The worthy dame, however, soon recovered
her self-command.

Oh dear, dear ! But it's very bad manners
of me to laugh straight out in your face like
that, Joshua," she said, checking her merriment :
and you don't seem very likely to do the same
by me either. But you mustn't be hard on
me ! " Here the idea of his laughing at anything'
almost set her off assail. " You see," she
went on, " it's as if old times had come back,
now there's a Eobur again at Oakleigh, and it
makes me feel so young, the least thing's enough
to turn my head."

Mrs. Marchpane might have taken her companion's
silence as carte blanche to indulge her
present vein still further, had not her eye been
arrested by something unusual in his manner.
He had been regarding her absently while she
was speaking, and when she ceased his outer man
began to heave and jolt in a strange and uncomfortable
manner, while something like the ghost
of a mournful chuckle seemed to struggle vainly
for an exit. Never was merriment more rapidly

extinguished than Mrs. Marchpane's at this
portent. Could she believe her senses ? And
was it readily Joshua who was thus displaying
symptoms of the lighter emotions ? Mental
arithmetic was not her forte, but a tolerable
calculation of the time it would take her to
traverse twice over the distance between the
grass walk and the cupboard where she kept her
infallible draughts and doses figured itself out in
her brain with unusual celerity. The perturbed
spirit inside Mr. Gibbins' waistcoat was, however,
soon laid, and a cloud of deep humiliation settled
upon his brow. Glancing with some trepidation
over his shoulder, and manifestly relieved at
finding that his momentary relapse from principle
had passed unnoticed even by the cocks and
hens, he stammered awkwardly,

Best let bygones be bygones, mum, as you
say. Thinks ha' bin a trifle out o' gear lately,
and it do putt us off our balance a bit. But
after all," he added with a sigh, looking away
from Mrs. Marchpane, and apparently addressing
a promising young rooster which was flapping its
wings near his feet, " after all there is a brighter
side ; there alius is, you know."

It doesn't seem to cheer you up much, anyhow,"
responded the housekeeper. " I believe
you've really forgotten how to laugh."

The lugubrious Gibbins sadly acquiesced.

** It's as true as corduroy, mum," said lie.
I'm not deny in' as I ain't ekal to a good cry ;
but larfin's modern I can manage. I ain't used
to it, there's where it is, and it's beyond me.
But then it's all there, mum " (patting his breast
with an air of modest conviction), " like a stone
at the bottom of a well, if it could only find a
went."

I suppose you can't help it, Joshua," said
Mrs. Marchpane, going on with her work ; " but
if you could, I shouldn't think any the more of
you for not being a little more cheerful."

"You may rest upon me, Mrs. Marchpane,
that I'm serum through no fault of my own,
mum. There's no such backing' out of a good
think in me, and I'd be willing enough, bless yer
'part, to enjoy life like most folks, if I could.
But what's the use o' calling' out about it when
the thing's 'ard enough to bear without tantrums
and torches."

As a plausible gloss upon this last word it maybe
suggested that Mr. Gibbins meant tortures.

Mrs. Marchpane's interest in psychological
phenomena, or her feminine curiosity, was
quickened by the bailiff's uncommunicativeness.

"Well, if your low spirits aren't your own
fault, what are they from, do you think ? " she
enquired. " You take your meals regular, don't
you, Joshua ? "

VOL. I. H

But the sufferer still maintained his reserve
with doleful tenacity, despite the flattering solicitude
implied in these queries.

'Ain't that neither' he rejoined. " Maybe
it runs in the family, like old cheney. Leastways
father and mother were both serum, being
peculiar Baptises ; and now, let me hold with
Church-going' ever so, I'm obliged to belong to
their way o' thinking'. Sounds 'ard on a man.
But there, I reckon the arrangement's handy, and
saves trouble. Prov'dence would lev its hands
full if it was to go purvidin' a sep'rate lot of
religious woos for every boy or gal that's born
into the world. A man has got to stick to what
his family has alius held by, I take it ; and not
go sniffing' out cracks in the old roof on his own
account, and stuffing' 'em up with any green straw
what lays convenient."

Take care, Joshua ; " and Mrs. Marchpane
shook her finger at him with a grave face. " Don't
you be talking about what Providence can do,
and what it can't. Church-folks and Baptists
may differ about a good many things, but I
know who is the best judge of what's good for
us all, whatever we choose to call ourselves.
Sparrows or Christians, it's all one, Joshua."

'^ Well, if Prov'dence looks after sparrows as
well as you tend these 'ere chicks, Mrs. Marchpane,
they must have a precious good time of it

surely. Only it do seem to me that the things
is alius a-'uno'erin' for suthio' to eat in winter.
Perhaps they don't know when they've had enough,
though. Jest see that fat little chap a-peckin' at
the scraps you've thrown down there for our
tame 'uns. I've never set eyes yet on such stuff
chucked down anywheres for them ; and it's
pretty plain as they likes it, too."

But Mrs. Marchpane was not to be baffled by
such sophistry.

Greedy little thing," she cried, shooting, to
scare off the marauder. " There are always
thieves, Joshua, who are not content with what
they've got themselves, but must take a bite
now and then from other people's pudding.
You've no call to trouble your head about those
rascally sparrows. They can attend to themselves
well enough. Sparrows indeed ! With
my beautiful chickabiddies which have got to
live honestly, and die as they're wanted, it's
different."

To say that Gibbins looked depressed at Mrs.
Marchpane's treatment of his speculations would
be unnecessary, as depression was his normal condition.
But he seemed rather sadder than before.
He and Mrs. Marchpane often waged wordy
warfare, though they were very good friends and
staunch adherents of the house. Mrs. Marchpane
was never tired of rebuking his gloomy way of

H 2

looking at things, and though her raillery cannot
be said to have had an exhilarating influence on
him, it would not be safe to infer that he did not
enjoy it after his own manner.

Seems like as if they was bound to get it
took out of 'em at one end if they don't at
t'other," he said ruefully. " If they do get
looked after that way, they won't last so long,
and there's no known' when you'll be wanting' one
of 'em for the kitchen."

'' Well I never did see a man like you for
smelling out the bad side of a thing, Joshua
Gibbins," said Mrs. Marchpane severely. " But
you'd better be off with your croaking, for Mr.
Arnold's sure to want to see you this morning
before he goes away. Mind, now, you don't keep
him too long with your business."

You may rest upon me, mum," said the
bailiff, "all I got to say won't take — not more
nor five minutes, Mrs. Marchpane. Though 'ain't
too pleasant neither. If the master will get
a-cuttin' down o' them rents, he won't be getting'
any in at all afore long. It's alius the way.
Give 'em a inch and they'll take a ell."

With these prognostications, which had their
basis solely in his own pessimism, Gibbins retired
to the house to hold his interview with
Arnold, whom he found in the library ; he was
standing by the fireplace with a book in his

hand, not reading it, but gazing abstractedly
upon the shelves opposite. They dispatched their
business speedily.

By the bye, Gibbins," observed the master
when they had finished, and the bailiff
was lingering with his hand on the door-handle
: "do you know anything about these
books ? "

Me, sir ? No," replied Gibbins in a voice
that suggested that he was ashamed of the fact
which he was not. " It isn't the likes o' me
that has the time to be lookin' at the insides o'
books — leastways printed books, sir ! " he added,
regretfully recollecting that he was not altogether
without bookworm of a sort.

I didn't mean to accuse you of looking at
their insides," said Arnold with a smile. The
bailiff's solemnity always tickled him, and the
idea of his studying the contents of the Oakleigh
library was altogether too much for his gravity.
But do you know at all what there is here ? is
there any catalogue or list ? "

Not as I knows on, sir," said Gibbins, " and
I don't 'speck them books is as good as they was.
Though there's nobody ever touches them except
when Mrs. Marchpane is by, and then it's
only to dust them. But you can't 'spect books
to keep right when there's nobody as reads 'em
or understands about 'em to look after 'em.

Isn't in nature. I don't think as any of 'em's
lost, sir ; but as to a list, no, I don't know on
any."

'' They seem to be in very good preservation,"
said Arnold ; " they're well dusted and the
room appears to have been kept warm and dry.
And I don't suppose any of them are lost. It
wasn't that. Only one likes to know what one
has and what one hasn't."

The bailiff slightly shook his head. This
feeling was beyond him. Books were books,
and one seemed to him pretty nearly as good as
another. They were mostly better not read, he
thought ; but if you must read them what was
the odds ?

I wonder if Mrs. Marchpane would know,"
said Arnold : " would you ask her to step this
way ? "

But as. Gibbins proceeded to do so, Overlooked
out of the window and saw the direction
he took. " Oh ! she's out there," he said to
himself, and went out after the bailiff. The
latter had reached Mrs. Marchpane, and was
observing : — " Mr. Arnold wants to speak to you,
Mrs. Marchpane, mum. He's in the liberty, and
he wants to know summit about them books.
He's ain' after a cattle-og or summit."

Mrs. Marchpane had picked herself and her
work up with a view to obeying the summons,

when she saw Arnold coming quickly down the
grass walk, and dropped a curtsey to him.

Don't move, Barbara," he said, " sit down
again. I only want to know whether there is
any catalogue of the books in the library here.
It's all very well when one's familiar with all the
books and has arranged them oneself: but to
introduce yourself to a large number of books
with no list to guide you is rather difficult''

'' I don't know of any, sir ; your father knew
them every one, and never wanted a list for
them, not he. They're just as he left them, sir,
all just the same. If he came back tomorrow
he could lay his hand on any of them. But I
don't think there was ever a list."

Well, I must make one, — or get one made.
I'm going away to Copesbury to-day, Barbara.
It must wait till I'm back for good, I suppose.
Then I'm going to London and down to the seaside
for a bit." He sighed. " It's very pleasant
coming home again after you've been travelling
all over the world."

"Surely," said Mrs. Marchpane; "but why
should people want to be always running about ?
Begging your pardon, Mr. Arnold, wouldn't it
be better to stay at home a bit ? To be sure ita
bit lonesome, but after all a body can always
be doing something. At least, the likes of me
can : but I dare say it's different."

'* One can't always do what one wants to, you
see ; and then if one once gets into the way of
moving about, it's not so easy to settle down.
There's a vis inertia to be overcome in stopping
motion as much as in starting it, you know,"
said Arnold, who liked to note the effect
on Gibbins of language he didn't understand.
Besides," he proceeded with a laugh, " if one
didn't go away, there wouldn't be the pleasure of
coming back."

"There is alius a brighter side o' things,"
observed, or rather soliloquised Gibbins, for the
remark was not intended for the general public
so much as for himself. " Seems as a man can't
get at any pleasure nohow without coin' himself
a injury must. A man don't so much as eat
without he's hungry first — leastways not unless
he's greedy and can go on a-eatin' all day and
all night and never know when he's had enough,
like them spares."

Gibbins's morbid view of phenomena was so
thoroughly genuine and constitutional that he
really could hardly tell what he considered
pleasant and what painful. Hence in his remarkable
theory of the ' brighter side o' things '
the aspect which he appeared to consider consolatory
would have had by no means a cheering
effect on the majority of his fellow-men.

True, philosopher ! Plato said the same

thing long ago," observed Arnold. " That's why
you and I, Gibbins, cultivate the unpleasant side
of things, just that we may get the pleasant.
And we get it too, whatever you may think,
Barbara."

I'm sure it's not my fault," said Gibbins
deprecatingly ; " I alius does my best to enjoy
life, but somehow it won't come. I do think
now and ao^in as there ain't nothing but dust
an' hashes in the world after all," he concluded
despondently.

Exactly : we pitch our lives in a minor key
on system ; " (Gibbins seemed doubtful of the
accuracy of this description, but made no
answer.) " Blessed are they that expect nothing :
they shall never be disappointed."

Mrs. Marchpane had been looking anxiously
from one to the other, and now shook her head
uneasily, and knitted rather faster than usual.
Knitting is a useful safety-valve for getting rid
of superfluous emotion.

*' I don't hold with them that are always
picking holes in things — poking and prying to
find out faults, and just as discontented when
they don't find any as when they do," she said.
Why can't they let them alone and take them
as they come ? They'll be finding fault with
Providence, and saying they could do things a
great deal better. If they'd just make the best

of things as they find them there's plenty of
good to be got out of them. People have got
enough to make them unhappy without looking
for it, and they've got plenty to enjoy too, if
they'd only enjoy it, instead of making their
lives a burden to everybody with fault-finding.
It's enough to spoil all one's pleasure to hear
you, Joshua. And you, Mr. Arnold, that ought to
know better, and that has everything round you
to make you happy, you ought to be ashamed of
yourself, to go encouraging him, and pretending
to be so miserable too." Little Mrs. Marchpane's
feelings were too much for her, and made
her speak to Arnold in a way so like the old
days of his childhood that it pleased him excessively,
apart from the humour of the situation.

Quod de sapientia alter ridebat — " he murmured
to himself. " Bravo, Barbara. I didn't
mean to displease you, Barbara, indeed I didn't,"
he continued aloud. Then the comicality of this
storm in a teapot struck him forcibly, and he
said with a laugh : '' But I must get you and
Gibbins here to fight it out. It would be as good
as a play."

Gibbins shook his head dolorously, whether
from mere hardheartedness, or as wishing to
signify that he and Mrs. Marchpane too often
fought it out, and always against his will, it
would be hard to say.

But Mrs. Marchpane was not to be appeased.
'' It's all very well to talk, Mr. Arnold, but I
don't see what you want to be making things out
worse than they are for. And if you'd only set
yourself down and be happy like your neighbours,
what is there to hinder you ? "

Come now, Barbara, you'll make me unhappy
in earnest if you're so cross," said Arnold playfully.
" I didn't mean to vex you, you know.
I was only playing at being unhappy, after all.
However I must be off if I'm to catch my train
to Copesbury," he concluded, looking at his watch
and retiring precipitately to the house.

In another half-hour he was on his way to
join Armitage, who had been obliged to go down
by an earlier train. He mused as he lay back in
the carriage on the last two or three days. Was
Paston, whom he had sent off to town that morning
in his usual high spirits to renew the struggle
with disease and distress — was Paston right in
his view of the case ? Or was he, Arnold Robur,
playing at being unhappy ' as he ' had said
jestingly in the language of past days to Mrs.
Marchpane ? Was it a morbid and dangerous
condition of mind which he could and ought to
shake off with a strong effort ? or was it but a
stage in his mental development — ' Blank misgivings
of a creature moving about in worlds
not realised ' ? So he pondered till he reached

Copesbury and the inner man had to give place
to the outer.

Armitao'e was out, and had left a message that
he could not be in till some time later. So
Arnold determined to stroll about the place and
see what he could of the old-world town, whose
appearance suggested that it had gone to sleep
for at least a century or two. He rambled for an
hour or more about the Cathedral and Close, and
the narrow streets with their old tumble-down
houses, 'picturesque gables and projecting upper
stories, jotting down a bit here and another there
as the fancy took him.

Close under the time-worn figures which look
down from their niches in the ancient gate on
the passer from the street into the Close stands
a rambling old building called the Cope-house.
Here is it," says the old chronicle preserved in
the Cathedral library, " y* y^ Bishop doth donne
hym y^ robes wc^ appertain unto hys dynitie
ante hys instalment. Thence goeth hee forth
beneath y^ gate ; & theeratte mete hym M''
Deane, & wyth hym hys clergie ; & these wyth
y® choristers chaunt hym a cheerful noise of
welcome. Y^ w"^^ ceerimonie is al don in y^ site
of y^ Twelve Hole Apostles wc^ bee up on y^
gate, for y* ye church of Coppesburie bee dedicate
unto y^ Twelve Apostles & al y^ Seynts."

A venerable grace lingers about the roughhewn

effigies, something soft and mellow for eyes
dazzled by the glare of gas and electric light to
rest upon, soothing as is the change for ears
stunned by the whirling roar of machinery to the
sweet organ's music, when it laves the great
roof in its melting caresses, and whispers round
the pillars.

So have these sacred sentinels stood while
generations passed in and out below them to
worship and to work, telling in hushed tones, but
clear to all who have attentive ears, of saintly
brotherhood between the struggling tenants of
earth and those who have won peace ; so do they
still endure to pour balm and silent benediction
on faithful hearts uncovered there before them.

The Cope-house's palmy days, if it ever had
any, have long since departed. The robing-chamber,
as it is called, remains, and to this day
is appropriated to the quaint custom described
above. But the spacious ground-floor is occupied
by a book-shop, and the rest of the building is
monopolised by the owner of the books and his
family.

Arnold had been musing among the mementoes
of past days that are to be met with in this queer
secluded town, and transferring some of his
impressions to his sketch-book in case he felt
disposed to elaborate them later, when he
stumbled upon the bulging windows of the

book-shop, staffed full of soiled and faded
volumes, with not a clean page to be seen anywhere.
He was hesitating upon the threshold
whether he should go in and explore farther
when a scrap of doggerel pasted inside the glazed
door caught his eye.

'* Stranger who visited these shores,
Before this mart thy wand'rings pause ;
Enter, and contemplate the stock
Displayed upon the shelves of Rock."

An invitation in which poetic imagery was
restrained within the chaste boundaries of sense
with such consummate propriety was not to be
resisted, and Arnold found himself picking his
way among the piles of musty literature that had
leaked by degrees from overflowing cupboards
and cases, and now almost concealed the floor.
His first thought was to examine the shelves,
when he was a little disappointed to find that
they were constructed of quite ordinary wood.
'' Well," he soliloquised, after rummaging to such
purpose that he could scarcely have been better
disguised to play the part of an amateur chimney-sweep,
" I wonder who is the gardener of this
wilderness ; it wants weeding badly enough.
There seems to be more chance here of hitting
upon the Sibyl's books than her cave, they're
hard enough to be very literal rocks ahead," and
he rubbed his shins after an encounter with a

heap of stiff bindings. His patience was rewarded
by the appearance of a pair of feet at the top of
a broken stairway in a dim corner of the shop.
They were encased in shabby carpet slippers,
between which and the frayed trousers an inch
or so of dirty white stocking was rather too
plainly visible. As they descended it became
evident that this bravery belonged to a lean but
thick-set old man, who rubbed his hands, and displayed
a mouthful of discoloured and irregularly
distributed teeth to his visitor.

'• I was looking for the shelves of rock"' said
Arnold, indicating with a gesture the metrical
composition on the door.

You see them before you, sir," replied their
owner, with a comical bow ; '*' you perceive in
me the author of that original poem, and the
Rock therein referred to, — to wit. Christian name
Hiram, surname Rock — utter them both together,
and the person who answers * here ' will be found
to stand in my shoes."

He was a jaunrv old man with dirty white
locks which were rumpled and unkempt Hke his
general appearance. Mr. Rock evidently regarded
his hair less as a personal adornment than as a
convenient appendage to be turned to account.
It was as forming: a sort of umbrageous lair or
nest for the spectacles which were so seldom across
his nose that he found it chiefly useful, though

the economy effected by its subordinate functions
such as serving for a penwiper or towel —
cannot be denied. He was standing opposite
Arnold on the other side of the counter as he
spoke, his hands in his pockets, and his mouth
turned up at the corners with an affable and airy
smile. Indeed all the angles of his somewhat
rubicund face seemed to turn up, and this helped
to give him an appearance far from venerable.

'not that my name is by any means an
accurate description of my nature, sir," he continued
; '' for nothing could be in a general way
more opposed to my feelings than stoniness.
Why, my heart's so soft that it has got me into
scrapes before now, and I sometimes wish it
wasn't quite so doughy. It has a way of melting
like snow at the least specimen of sunshine. After
all, it's better to be deceived than to deceive ;
and I'll go so far as to say it's more pleasant too.
But it's part of the irony o' Fate, sir, that people
should be born with inappropriate names ; and
yet there's hardly a single writer of romance that
knows it. Fate is always capricious and unreasonable
; now I'm a man of principle, and that's
why I'm not a fatalist," and he burst into a
chuckle, or rather a subdued scream of satisfaction
at the fluency of his argumentative faculty.

Arnold asked him how long he had carried
on business at Copesbury.

^' For the last twenty years or so," was the
reply. " Before that I was a member of the
trade in the States for a good spell ; it was
there I learned how to write poetry. I'm getting
on for seventy years of age now, sir, and
beyond that I'm a trifle deaf, don't feel much
older than when I first settled down here. Some
people think I wear rather well. It was the
opinion o' the late Duke o' Ditching. Just
before his death he said to me, * You're not
much younger than me, Rock,' says he, 'but
I'll take odds that you'll outlive my successor
for all he's a young chap ; ' and it don't seem
unlikely that I may. There won't be much
estate left, though, to pay off wagers," added
the hero of this aristocratic reminiscence, with
another chuckle. Then he started off ao-ain.
Once when he was hard up the old lord wanted
me to dispose of his library for him, and I was
engaged for a week or two in making a catalogue.
It's work 1 know something about, and
I'm fond of it for its own sake. Well, when it
was done I knew the contents of every volume
in the list from Theology to Sport ; there where
a good lot of foreign books, too, and some
Oriental ones. I had been acquainted with
the bulk of 'em before ; so there wasn't much
to be surprised at in that. AVe had dinner in
the library that night, I and the Duke and

VOL. I. I

several of his friends, — all noblemen. Ah,
there's not one of 'em left now, sir, out of that
party but myself. It's sad to outlive those
whom one has known and loved ; Cicero says
it's the chief misfortune of old age. I remember
they all began joking together about me because
I offered to quote out of any single book in the
room. ' All right,' says his Grace, — he was
always so keen on a wager — * I'll give you a
dozen" of champagne to a bottle o' ginger-beer
you can't.' Of course I said ^ done.' So he
takes down a book at random, and tells me it's
Junius. * That's not a very hard one, my lord,'
says I ; ' open it wherever you like, and I'll
quote off the page, if you give me a start.' I
saw them all open their eyes at this ; but that
was nothing to what they looked when I'd
quoted the piece word for word. My memory
isn't what it was, but I can remember that piece
to this day, perhaps on account of the champagne
it got me. It was from that attack on
the Duke of Bedford, where he says : ' Can grey
hairs make folly venerable ? and is no period to
be reserved for meditation in retirement ? Shame
on you, my lord : let it not be said of you that
in the latest hour of your career you followed
the same worthless objects, the same restless
ambitions in which your prime was spent. Consider
that you are disgracing the venerable
character of age, and exposing the imbecility of

the passions after you have lost their vigour.'
Present company always excepted sings out
his Grace, roaring with laughter, though the rest
of the party looked rather foolish."

It may be surmised that Mr. Rock treated his
noble friends to something better than this expurgated
version of the original, or he certainly
did not deserve to ^vm his bet.

That's just a specimen of what I could do
once, sir, before I began to lose my cunning,"
said the Copesbury Nestor; "but a man can't
sit still with his mouth open if he wants to
acquire learning. When my son was young he
used to come and ask me how he could get to
be as wise as me. * Get up for half a century
at four in the morning and read till six,' was
my advice ; it's what I did myself, so that,
allowing a good deduction for Sundays and
accidents, there's something like 30,000 hours'
reading stowed away inside me. You can't
expect me to be just like my neighbours after
that," and the bookseller raised his hands in
modest deprecation of any surprise being expressed
at his little idiosyncrasy. " But the
generality of folks can't go in for brain work of
that sort," he went on, resuming his former easy
attitude ; " they're unfitted by reason of there
being no assiduity in 'em. Take our own people
here in Copesbury. I have to press them even
to come in and look round my shop by exhibiting

I 2

that original poem yonder to the vulgar vision.
Since I've been here they've had a cultured focus,
so to speak, in their midst, — What did Archimedes
say '? ' Give me a focus, and I will move
the world,' — but they're scarcely improved, because
they're too ignorant to want to know anything.
A clergyman told me the other day that
when he first went to his present living, close
by here, he got on famously with the people,
and could do anything with 'em ; till one unfortunate
Sunday, as luck would have it, he
gave out from the pulpit that he'd be glad to
meet any members of the congregation who liked
to attend in the vestry after the service for the
purpose of consulting about sending someone to
represent them at the diocesan conference.
Well, he waited there some time ; and when
nobody seemed coming, he set off home. Next
day he was surprised by both the churchwardens
calling on him together to protest against the
popish doctrine they said he'd been preaching
the day before. Of course he was a bit taken
aback, especially as they only shook their heads
and looked solemn when he told 'em he couldn't
remember having said anything of that kind.
Would you believe it, they thought he'd been
asking the parishioners into the vestry to confess
to him ! and nothing he could say could shake
it out of 'em either. That man's one of the
most unpopular preachers in the diocese now.

He's taken to wearing: a black o-owii, but it's no
good ; they're skeeiy of him. Once frighten 'em,
and they don't settle down again in a generation."

'^Arraitao:e had better ore Mr. Rock to olive
him a few wrinkles," thought arnold. He was
getting tired for his own part, however, of sitting,
or mither standing, at the feet of this
Gamaliel ; but it was no easy matter to swim
out of the current of the veteran's autobiographical
eloquence. His deafness made him
unconscious of his victim's anxiety to depart, and
be at rest, and may have been partly assumed for
this purpose. Anyhow, the verbal torrent flowed
on pitilessly, and Arnold was submerged again.

"As a specimen of native pigheadedness
that's poor, though. Old Dr. Goddard — he's
the coroner, you know ; lives a mile or so out
o' the town — he had a butler once with a good
average Copesbury intellect, and no mistake.
The beer used to run out very fast, faster than
the doctor's company accounted for. So one
day he sends for this butler, and says, ' The beer
seems to evaporate. Thorn pains ; a cask no
sooner comes in full than you tell me it's empty,
and we must get in some fresh.' Tompkins
scratches his head, and can't make it out, let
him think it over any way you like. * Look
here,' says the doctor at last, ' you take a bit
of paper, and cock down every pint as you
draw it for my table and the kitchen, and let

me see it when I ask for it.' Tompkins agreed
all right, and said it was just what he was on
the point of suggesting ; but as he didn't leave
off taking his private allowance as regular as
before they soon found out what became of the
extra pints above what he wrote down. After
that the doctor thought he'd get on without a
butler for a while, and trouser the brass himself.
If he's ever asked to write Tompkins a testimonial,
I reckon it'll be a snorter."

Mr. Rock pausing to take breath and enjoy
his joke, Arnold adroitly seized the opportunity
of expressing his desire to purchase a book on
the counter. ** Ah, that's a work of rare merit,
sir," said the dealer ; " scarce too. The Lord
Chief Justice admired that book very much.
He came to see me when he was last down hereat
the Assizes. Said he would have bought it if
it hadn't been for his having it already at home.
Hullo, what's this written inside ? "

Holding the volume in one hand, he disentangled
his spectacles from the jungle where
they had hitherto lain in ambush, and proceeded
to read : '' ' Morgan Smith, his book. The fifth
copy ; four others having been sacrificed to the
rapacity of borrowers.' Well, sir, I trust you'll
be more fortunate than poor Mr. Smith. There's
plenty of lending libraries for people to borrow
looks from now-a-days ; and then if they're lost
they must be paid for."

The purchase was completed, considerably to the
advantage of the vendor, for Arnold was eager not
to risk further unlimited discussion by haggling ;
and Hiram Rock was left to reflect with some pride
how creditably he had sustained his character for
cheerful invention and glib mendacity.

There are some people who cannot keep to
the monotonous and dreary high road of truth
if they would, but their feet must stray lightly
along the elastic turf of fantasy, by which they
as often as not gain the journey's end sooner, or
at least more comfortably than their plodding
fellows. Hiram had been honos resigned to this
fact, and, to do him justice, was as astute a
pedestrian across country as one could wish to
see. Why should lovers of the Ideal be severely
distinguished, and the less considerable among
them branded with a grievous social stigma ? Is
it not by following some such instinct that men
reach the summit of artistic, if not of commercial,
respectability? Philosophers have not been
wanting to show us how trifling the difference
really is between poets and liars. Mr. Rock's
vocation should have been to write books, not
to sell them.

CHAPTER Vr.

Oswald. Why, what a monstrous fellow art thou, thus to rail on

one that is neither known of thee nor knows thee 1
Keyit. What a brazen-faced valet art thou, to deny thou
knowest me ! " — King Lear.

I MET a queer old fellow here when I was
loafing about to-day," said Arnold to Armitage as
they were discussing their coffee and cigars after
dinner that evening in the Canon's comfortable
bachelor quarters. ** A bookseller who keeps
below the Wodehouse, isn't it ? Rock I think
his name was. A curious old boy in carpet
slippers and a very seedy coat, with a tongue
as long as my arm. The way he went on
about his noble acquaintances in past days
was wonderful."

I know the man. Quite a character, I believe.
And he looks it, certainly."

Yes. Booksellers often are worth studying
second-hand booksellers at any rate. The

Cambridge ones certainly used to be very ordinary
mortals, principally remarkable for a keen
eye to business ; but then they are kept alive
by the brisk trade they drive. They have no
chance of getting buried. But sometimes you
do find very extraordinary specimens."

Booksellers, if they are worth their salt, are
apt to be enthusiasts, you see," said Armitage ;
and enthusiasm is generally entertaining if the
object of it is not so serious as to enlist one's
sympathies too deeply. A man of the world
must laugh at anything approaching to a monomaniac."


'' I don't think this old gentleman can be
called a monomaniac, unless an intense love of
drawing the long-bow can be so entitled," said
Robur. " I should think he must be rather a
bore after a time. A little of that sort of thing:
goes a long way. But it's amusing for a while,
though I certainly had enough of it in a very
short time."

How did you come across him ? " asked
Armitage. '' What were you doing to take you
into that den of his ? It's not inviting from
the outside."

Oh ! I was just poking about — I have a
passion for investigation, you know. I wandered
through all sorts of queer by-ways and alleys
this afternoon — narrow, crooked streets that seem

to lead nowhere, as our tutor at Trinity said of
the small coUeo^es. The sarcasm was unintentional,
but it was appreciated."

You Trinity men always seem to feel it your
duty to speak evil of every other seminary of
sound learning," said Armitage. " It has the
effect on an unfortunate outsider like myself
of suggesting that possibly when it is necessary
so strongly to emphasise the superiority, the
superiority is not so substantial as it might
be. You always seem to think Trinity ' the
hub of the solar system.' "

Perhaps we're not so far wrong either," said
Robur. '* Even Oxford men generally allow —
however, we won't talk of that. I wonder if
this old fellow really is tolerably capable. I
rather want to find some one to catalogue my
books at Oakleigh. I don't see why he shouldn't
do as well as another."

Oh, I fancy he's got his wits about him,"
said Armitage. " He may be a trifle shaky about
the legs, but he's no cripple under the hat, as
Uncle Remus says. I expect he puts on a good
price to his goods when he meets with a likely
customer."

'^ Human nature, to say nothing of booksellers,"
observed Arnold. '* They're all tarred
with the same brush so far as that goes. A
man must have an eye to his own interests.

That makes no difference in regard to my
books, so long as he doesn't go off with anything.
Though, for that matter, what he's to
go off with from Oakleigh it would be hard
to say."

Accordingly Arnold made his way back to the
shop next morning. Mr. Rock received him
with open arms — metaphorically — and mouth —
literally.

Back again soon, sir. Now it's wonderful
what a fancy people take to my shop when
once they've been inside. There was the Duke
of Oxford, sir — many's the time I've talked with
his Grace by the hour together in this shop, and
all because he happened to pick up a book he
had a fancy for the first time he came in.
Wonderful man, the Duke. Such an eye fora
curious binding. I used to think sometimes
he cared more about them than the insides.
Perhaps he did. Now I never could understand
that bibliomaniac's craze, sir. Give mea
book with plenty inside it, and who cares
what the cover's like ? To be sure one does
like to see good print and good paper and
good leather at the back, but after all the
binding's but the guinea stamp, the book's the
gold for a' that, if I may be permitted to make
an adaptation of the illustrious Nightingale of
the North. Don't mind me, sir. Pray look

round and see if you can suit yourself. Nowhere's
a book you might like to look at — very
rare and curious, and dirt-cheap at the price.
But there's no demand for that sort of article
now-a-days," he concluded, as Arnold showed no
interest in the volume in question,

You mentioned yesterday that you had had
some experience in cataloguing and arranging
libraries," said Arnold. " I should like to know
what your terms for such work would be."

'' Experience ! Oh yes ! There was Sir Duncan
Vavasor's library, now. Very fine set of books
he had. Not a large library ; select, you know
— about five thousand volumes. Some valuable
books there ; but such a state as they were in
when I took them in hand you never saw — all
higgledy-piggledy, odd volumes in different
shelves, Mungo Park cheek by jowl with Newton's
Principia, fine old Cicero leaning up
against Rabelais, and so on. But bless you he
never used to read them. Half the volumes
were tumbling to bits, backs broken, leaves
damp-stained and worm-eaten. Now it's worth
while to have a library like that to work in,
badly kept as it was ; some very curious old
tomes there. Very agreeable man, Sir Duncan.
Used to say he wished I had the books and he
had the price of them ; we should use them both
better that way. Very pleasant man, but no

scholar, sir. Now with you it's different, as I
can see. You know a good book when you see
one, and it's not so many people can do that."

Arnold had been examining the books one
after another as the bookseller spoke, and wondering
how long he would go on. At last however
he became impatient, and managed with.
considerable exertion to keep his man to the
business in hand, while he explained what he
wanted and extracted his terms.

But you see now, sir," the bookseller proceeded,
" the season's just going to begin, and
I've got my hands pretty full, of course. Not
but what a second-hand business has a good deal
going on all through the year : but the season
makes a lot of difference. You wouldn't think,
now, what a lot there is of it even in a little
dead-alive place like this. I've often thought of
going and setting up in town — but bless you,
sir, I like the country, that's where it is ; and
this is as good as country, after all. And you
see I've been fixed here so long I'd have to pull
up a root or two if I were to move now."

"Do you mean that you haven't got the time
to do my business ? " said Arnold. "I suppose
you're not likely to have more later on ? "

'' I can't quite say, sir. There's a precious lotto
be done just now. But I'll see what I've
got in hand and let you know if you like, sir.

Though t don't much expect I shall be able todo
it."

Well, you've got my address. If you have
time you'd better write and say so, though I
can't eno;ao;e not to have sot some one else to doit,
of course. By the way, I shall be away for
some while, so you'd better leave yourself a
martin of time, as the letters will have to be
forwarded."

Very good, sir," responded Mr. Rock as
Arnold went out.

Now there's a chance," said the bookseller
to himself when he was alone — " there's a chance
I should have been glad of once. Big house, I
suppose ; lots of money too. That young fellow's
evidently a bit of a swell, and he's as easy to
cheat as — as " — he looked round him as though
in search of a simile — " as unborn twins. (Wonder
where I've heard that phrase before — rather
effective.) Walk round him in no time. Sort
of goose with golden eggs, I've no doubt, if he
were only in judicious hands. Ah ! those days
are gone. I'm too old for that sort of thing
now — not but what I've something left in me
yet," he continued, straightening himself — or at
least making an effort in that direction. " But
once ! Shade of — ahem ! better not mention
names — what a good thing you might have made
of this. I wonder if he is a shade, though.

Perhaps he'll turn up again some day. Hem ! it
oughtn't be altogether convenient for me, either,
if he did, supposing he chose to rake up old
scores. Well, well ! He wouldn't find it easy
to get hold of me, after all, if he did. And he's
not likely to want to either."

Irony almost Sophoclean ! Next morning as
Mr. Rock was arranging some books lately
received, there entered the shop a man with a
bag. He was tall and somewhat spare in figure,
but looked active and alert, and as if he had
more life left in him than most men between
forty and fifty. He greeted Mr. Rock, and said
he had called on business connected with a
weekly paper — the Tub a Mirabilis.

"Aha! my friendly penny trumpet!" said
Mr. Rock. " If you'll step this way we can be
private." So saying he led the way up the
rickety stairs to his penetralia.

When Mr. Rock spoke the stranger quickly
bent forward to scrutinise his face in the gloom
of the low-ceiled shop. He said nothing however,
and followed the bookseller upstairs. Once
in his sanctum, Mr. Rock closed the door and
motioned his visitor to a chair.

Now, for your business, Mr. — Mr. — "

Edwards, my name is," said the other, as he
proffered a card. '' My business can wait a few
minutes though, Mr. Bennett."

The bookseller started. " You are mistaken.
My name is Rock."

Bennett, I think I said," calmly insisted the
other.

'who the devil are you?" ejaculated Rock,
angrily.

"If it comes to that, who the devil are you,
to be trading under a false name, I should like
to know ? " retorted his visitor, with that cool
air of mastery which is best calculated to discompose
an adversary.

Mr. Rock looked closely at him. " Eh ? No
it can't be. 'Gad, it is though. And how the
what's-'is-name come you to be calling in connexion
with the Tuha ? "

Never mind that, Bennett, my boy — "

Rock, if you please."

"Rock, then. Never mind what I've been
about. Here have I found you again, to all
appearances a peaceable and industrious citizen,
in the enjoyment of a comfortable income from
a snuo- little business in a trade in which it's the

o

custom, and therefore a guaranteed right, to take
all the advantage you can of the verdant freshness
and gullibility of the most gullible class of
mortals on the face of the earth — book-fanciers
to wit. Oh the frauds of this world ! I thought
T knew your voice the moment you spoke, but
that poky shop of yours down there is so infernally

dark I couldn't see your face till I got
up here. But there was no mistake about it
then, though." Mr. Edwards burst out laughing.
I hope I've kept a little better than you, old
man."

Mr. Rock was sitting dejectedly all sunk
together in his chair, with an appearance of
having had his bones taken out, gazing into
the fire. His comrade's levity failed to rouse
him.

To think of your having come back and
opened it all up again!" he said gloomily.
Just when IVe settled well down and become
an institution, too. I did think I'd got quiet at
last."

The other burst out laughing again. " A nice
way to welcome an old friend, that. And I
should like to know what I've done or said to
disturb your peace and quietness. However
we'd better get our business done sharp. Fact
is, I've come down about the circulation of the
7}{da. You don't seem to have been selling as
many as you used to do, and you're the only
bookseller here who sells for us. Let's talk it
over ; then we can have a chat about old times,
eh, old man ? "

Mr. Rock did not altogether seem to appreciate
his visitor's tone, but he acquiesced like a man
who has no help for it. They despatched their

VOL. I. K

business quickly, and then Edwards settled himself
in his chair with an air of intending to stay
there. The resignation stamped on the bookseller's
face would have been pathetic if it had
not had too much of the ludicrous in it.

Got a pipeful of 'baccy to offer an old friend,
after so long a separation ? " inquired his visitor,
with a grin at the other's disconsolate appearance.

Mr. Rock handed him a jar, and Edwards proceeded
to fill and light his pipe : then he leaned
back comfortably in an arm-chair, took some
placid whiffs at his briar, and like a man who
holds the tenace over his adversary, waited to be
led up to.

Mr. Rock storied once or twice, and then in
turn silently lighted his pipe. '' I was always
afraid you'd turn up again somewhere," he said
dolefully. " It's very hard on a man that he
can't bury and forget what's past and done with.
I thought I had got rid of it all, though, at
last."

Edwards laughed again. He was immensely
tickled by the bookseller's thorough despondency,
and was at no trouble to conceal his amusement.
*' Come," he said, " don't put on that long face,
old man. There's no reason why we should
remember everything of old times. There's a
great deal of it that was jolly enough ; and for
the rest," he shrugged his shoulders carelessly.

*' what does it matter ? So long as you're ready
to give a helping hand to a friend, Tm quite
ready to let bygones be bygones. But of
course — "

Yes, there's always a 'but,' that's the worst
of it. I knew there was bound to be a ' but '
with you ; it always was your way, you know — •
Edwards," said the bookseller.

Of course, you know by this time, Rock,
that if one man puts another man's name on
a piece of paper without authority, any third
person who is acquainted with the transaction,
and can prove the facts, is in a position to make
it rather tight for somebody — supposing he
wants to."

Rock simply writhed under these observations,
despite their general character, but said nothing.
Edwards continued, watching him.

"Supposing he wants to — there's the point.
And there are some other little things — peccadilloes,
let's call them, — of which the law is
pleased to take a more serious view than perhaps
is warranted by their enormity. But we needn't
mention them. Purely general remarks, my
dear fellow, — no particular application. Why
should there be ? But you and I always used to
understand one another."

Mr. Rock showed nimis of beings roused. " I
don't think you ever came to grief from not

K 2

understanding either me or any one else," he
said bitterly.

Edwards inclined his head, with a mock
obeisance. " I believe you're right," he said,
though I says it as shouldn't. I acknowledge
the compliment with thanks. It is cheerful to
find one's talents appreciated by any one, in this
cold hard world."

I don't fancy appreciation of your talents is
likely to lead to any greatly increased respect for
your personality," said Rock.

Edwards assumed a look of astonishment.
Can I believe my ears ? Let me congratulate
you on the acquisition of a sarcastic vein. I
don't remember anything of the sort in old times.
How did you come by it, old man ? Don't be
too careless how you use it, though. It isn't
always safe to stir sleeping dogs, you know."

Mr. Rock said nothing, but thought to himself
that unless his old comrade was mightily changed,
which he didn't seem to be, it would take a great
deal of sarcasm to rouse him into neglecting his
own interests for purposes of vengeance. Edwards
seemed to read his thoughts.

Ah ! it's to mj interest to keep quiet, you
think : and so lons^ as that's the case there's no
fear of my babbling ? Well, perhaps it is — so
long as you keep friendly and don't mind doing
a friend a good turn now and again. But you

see, I have a pull over you, old man ; and if the
worst comes to the worst, I've a deal less to lose
by the publication of certain little facts in our
past history than you have. It would be a great
blow to have tales told of a respectable citizen —
respectable even if he does seem a bit eccentric''
added Edwards cruelly — for unless the eccentricity
be an affectation, it is not pleasant to its
owner to be told of it — such as how once in
his younger days — "

'• Now don t talk like that — don't ! "' ejaculated
the bookseller in an agony.

'• Well, wells*' said Edwards with an assumption
of o-ood humour, " we won't talk more of
that. Perhaps it's as well not to be too explicit,
so long as we understand one another, as I said
before. That's all I want."

Brutal insensibility by itself is apt to fall by
its own mass, and generally handicaps a man
heavily in the race of life : but the same equality,
when combined with cunning, and used artistically,
is one of the most formidable weapons a
man can possess. The power of cutting with a
steady hand deeper and deeper into the soul and
watching the victim writhe beneath the operation,
yet without flinching — even delighting in
the ruthlessness of the task — this power is given
to few : and those who possess it may often sway
their fellow-men and rise above circumstance ;

but they are men to be feared always — hated
often — loved never. Their associates are their
victims, who would break the bond if they
dared, or were able. Edwards was one of these
men. Without the qualities which go to form
the villain on a large scale, he had all the pitiless
selfishness, all the low cunning to help it, which
fit a man to hold a tyranny over his associates in
evil. Had he taken to it, his natural insensibility
to the pain of others would have made him an
excellent surgeon. But vivisection is not usually
practised on men's hearts with a view to the
benefit of any one but the practitioner. Edwards
knew his man : he had a purpose in his method ;
but apart from that the mere mental condition
of Mr. Rock was an entertaining study. He sat
back in his chair as he talked through the whiff's
of his pipe, and watched the bookseller keenly
and with a sense of enjoyment, making note
mentally of his transition from dejection to irritability,
and from irritability to the most abject
suffering, and feeling some pride in the skill with
which he could make stage succeed stage just ashe
wished it to do so.

Well," said Rock sullenly after a pause,
what is it you want me to do, to come to the
point ? I suppose you want money, though you
don't look so confoundedly hard up."

Edwards laughed. '' I dare say I look more

prosperous than you do, old man : I hope I do,
in all conscience — though all isn't gold that
glitters, you know, and a good coat may make
an empty pocket. No, T don't want money —
at least not on the spot, and from you. It
would be mean to come begging of an old friend,
wouldn't it ? "

*' "Well, what in thunder do you want, then ? "
asked the other. He looked relieved, however,
to find that there was no immediate call on his
purse-strings.

Oh ! the fact is I'm sick of this business.
It's all very well for a while. There's plenty todo,
and lots of fools to — well, on whom to exercise
those faculties for which you were so good
as to compliment me just now. But it's damned
drudgery, and one gets awfully tired of it after
a bit. Couldn't we manage a coup of some sort
together, eh ? You used to be a great hand at
devising a coup you know."

Rock shook his head. " I'm quite out of
that sort of thing. Couldn't do it if I tried
now, and I haven't tried for years and years.
I'm quite a reformed character, and when a
man has got straight you can't expect him
to get out of it. After all, there's nothing
like honesty and a quiet life, you know. The
Earl of Watney used to say to me, * Rock,' said
he, ' you're a lucky man ; you've got a calling

where yoti can cheat as much as you please and
still be an honest man.' Witty man, his lordship."
Mr. Rock was recovering himself, and
fell into his habit of story-telling instantly and
naturally in consequence. " Often and often — "

"Oh ! drop that rot," said Edwards. " Never
mind your cursed aristocrats. If you get on to
them I know we shall get stuck where we are.
Damn your maudlin morality ; none of your
dinners of herbs for me. I go in for the stalled
ox — when I can get him."

'don't see how I'm going to help you to any,
though," said the bookseller. '' I'm quite out of
the way of them myself." And he looked ruefully
at his rusty habiliments.

Which means that you're not on with me, I
suppose," said Edwards. " Well, just as you
like : but remember what I said. So long as a
man is ready to help a friend, it's not reasonable
that that friend should be too careful to rake
up the past : but if you've got the whip hand,
there's no reason why you shouldn't use your
advantage — fairly and honourably and aboveboard,
of course. Now just try and think a bit.
Can't you offer a suggestion ? "

The bookseller pondered. " It's no go,
Edwards," he said slowly; "no go. Now there
was a young chap in here — when was it ? —
yesterday, who might have been a subject for

you — Eobur his name was. Gentleman, seems
to have a big house — at least he's got a good
library — and lots of money, I should think.
Wanted me to go there and catalogue the books.
It's not good enough, though. Besides, what
could I do with him ? He's going to be away
from home, and I don't see any opening for
myself. Now if it had been you — you might
have made something of it."

Hem. Don't see why we shouldn't, now.
Why shouldn't I go there as your assistant, or
better, as your deputy ? " said Edwards hopefully,
as new possibilities opened themselves out before
him. " It might be worth trying. Why not ? "

And what would you do when you got there ?
How are you going to make anything out of it ?
unless you go in for burglary," said Rock, laughing.
He had now quite recovered, and entered
into the spirit of the thing with a zest of which
he could never have suspected himself a few
hours before.

Burglary ? ahem ! it doesn't sound well,
does it ? But what's in a name ? ' A rose by
any other name,' you know. By Jove ! quoting
Shakespeare ! This won't do, out of the shop.
Never mind what I do when I get there. Give
me a start and I'll engage to help myself on.
Why shouldn't I go instead of you ? Just fancy
me grinding away at cataloguing books, though ! "

The pair, now quite amicable, settled that this
should be so, and after arranging some details,
parted in comparative hilarity.

A couple of days later, Mr. Rock received a
note from his colleague. '* Won't do," the latter
wrote. " At least, not as we settled. I've met
your phoenix, he came to our office to-day. Now
it would hardly do if he were to discover that I
went to catalogue his books ; especially if anything
wrong happened while I was there. You
must write and say you can go, and I'll be in
the neighbourhood, and we'll see what can be
done. If Robur were safe to be out of the way
all the time, it would be different ; but anyway
you'd better go. Perhaps I might come and
help you to make the list, you know."

CHAPTER VII.

For although no fountain on earth can compare with the
clearness of Helicon, yet there lies at the bottom a thick
sediment of slime and mud ; for so Apollo begged of Jupiter,
as a punishment to those who durst to taste it with unhallowed
lips, and for a lesson to all not to drink too deep
or far from the spring." — Swift.

The official residences of the fourth estate are
situated in the quarter of Philistia ; and thither
Arnold was conveyed by Robert Paston the
morning after his arrival at the latter's house in
AVimpole Street. Threading their way through
a number of narrow and dirty thoroughfares,
they found themselves standing before an unpretentious
building at the top of Salon alley,
and were forthwith shown into a room on the
first floor. A bearded individual was reclining
in an arm-chair before the fire, correcting proofs.
Aha ! my literary leech," cried he as Paston
entered ; " this is an opportune visit. I am
writing an article on ' The March of Medical

Science during the past year,' and find myself
absolutely sticking for want of a fact or two to
form the nucleus."

How d'ye do, Mr. Robur ? " said this worthy,
when Arnold had been introduced, 'Were happy
to see you have followed professional advice in
making yourself acquainted with the most central
of social ganglia, sir."

Don't go on like that, Mr. Bloss ; you will
make my friend nervous. The fact is we've
called to find out whether you can't make use of
him now and then to review a book. He's not
in need of work from a pecuniary point of view ;
and though he's had no actual experience in
journalism, he is a man of more culture than
your average literary hack, and comes here fresh
from a pretty extensive course of European
travel."

This summary of his merits was not very
enjoyable to Arnold, but Mr. Bloss did not seem
to consider the terms in which it was couched
by any means extravagant. " Well," replied
that gentleman, " of course you know how many
calls upon him a person in my position has. I
assure you I have ten times as many applications
as I can satisfy" (which was quite true). " But,
of course, knowing you, Paston, as I do, it's a
different matter ; and I shall be delighted to be
of assistance to Mr. Robur, even to the extent of

reading through any independent article lie sends
me, though I can't promise to insert it,"

*• This season of the year is naturally a brisk
one for our trade," observed Mr. Bloss, when
Arnold had tendered his thanks. *' Christmas
time brings the conservative side of the public
uppermost, and is for that reason a joyful festival
for us journalists, who have to shape our stuff
accordingly'*

I always thought," said Arnold, " that the
frost and snow of December brought with them
an unusually keen blast of criticism on the
journals."

Quite so," returned the editor ; *' but then
we court it ; like the man in the fable, we have
taken good care to provide ourselves with greatcoats,
and the breeze can only wrap these more
closely about us. You see, my good sir, the
same thing comes regularly every year, and wee
know exactly what sort of weather to prepare
for ; so we just lie up in our snug forest of Arden,
and whistle 'Blow, blow, thou winter wind,'
carelessly enough. Now at other times the
temperature is so changeable we don't know
what to expect ; and so we're always losing
by it."

It's much the same in our profession," remarked
the doctor. " Cases increase during the
annual plum-pudding carnival; and the best of

it is that the symptoms always exhibit a wonderful
uniformity. Otherwise we might be rather
inconvenienced by the extra demand on our
offices. As it is, we sally forth gleefully every
morning, armed with the light aperient and
cooling drug."

That's it, sir. Now look at us : we've had
our properties carefully packed away all the
year where we can find 'em. Then at the
appropriate moment we trot out the Star of
Bethlehem glittering with fresh paste, repair the
battered manger, and furbish up our job lot of
tarnished swords and helmets for the faded
Cherubim and Seraphim. Nothing could be
simpler when you can reckon on human nature
like this ; and we make the most of our chances
in this shop."

Mr. Bloss was allowed to speak for himself.
He did not attract his hearers' sympathies, and
it is to be hoped that his attitude on this point
does not represent that of most of his fellows-craftsmen.
His inconsiderate want of tact would
have betrayed the vulgar minded tradesman even
if his manners and exterior had been more
polished than they were. His abilities were
small ; and all he acquired was for a temporary
purpose, and soon dissipated. As a very young
man he might not have been deficient in enthusiasm
; but his experience on the various newspapers

with which he had been connected had
warned him in good time that this was a foible
to be corrected, except in so far as it could be
exalted to the level of a marketable article. For
this purpose it must be, as is well known, of a
peculiarly elastic nature ; and Mr. Bloss had not
been slow in cultivating this admirable quality.
He was a judicious trimmer ; and the secret of
his success as a journalist lay in the fact that
long practice had trained him thoroughly in the
art of maintaining a masterly self-adaptability by
the side of a show of earnest conviction. His
finger was always upon the pulse of public
opinion ; while his readers were satisfied that it
was he who guided that blind and arbitrary
force, originating so much of it as was rioiit, and
conscientiously opposing it when it was wrong,
for the common Q-ood. Leader-writing: is a form
of amusement in which a taste for inconsistency
may be indulged more freely than is allowed in
any other kind of serious effusion. It may be
on account of the shadowy and impersonal
authority attached to the modicum of declamation
which daily and weekly garnishes the
table of every respectable householder ; it maybe
the very transient effect produced upon the
intelligence of the persons addressed, the peaceful
oblivion of what the leader said yesterday in
which we skim the leader to-day. But, whether

it be the irresponsibility of the stuff, or the ease
with which it fades from the memory, leaving
as clean a tabula rasa as it found, the journalist's
stock of information need not be less perishable
than his ephemeral productions ; nor is a retentive
mind much better than an encumbrance
to him, whatever may be the case with the professed
liar. In the absence of evidence to the
contrary one would be disposed to suspect the
author of the saying *' Teach me rather to forget "
of having been at some time of his life a manufacturer
of leaders or ' pars.'

But an excursion behind the scenes was Mr.
Bloss's pet subject of familiar intercourse ; so he
did not pause long enough for his visitors' silence
to appear anything but a well-bred sign of concurrence
in his remarks.

*' Well, gentlemen, we caterers for the public
benefit have to keep a careful eye on the prevailing:
tastes and tendencies of consumers. Now,
you know, the great tendency of our time is
towards sensationalism in journalism ; and this
tendency is slowly fighting its way onwards and
upwards from the lowest to the highest classes,
from pinching poverty to gilded aristocracy.
A few years ago the rage for this sort of thing
was confined to the uninstructed million, the
classes among whom the cheap cut-throat found
a ready acceptance ; " here the lecturer cleared

his own throat, happily a whole one, and the
doctor winked surreptitiously at Arnold ; " the
taste for this Mother Midnight literature was,
however, currently held to be depraved in the
monde of fashion, and the few cheap serials and
papers which adopted such a tone for conveying
their ordinary and sober facts were said to pander
to the vitiated mob, and encourage low cravings.
What lady with a reputation would have allowed
her area steps to be defiled with a copy of the
Daily Justinian, or her fair finger-tips to be
soiled by contact with the Monthly Muckrake,
otherwise than by suspending the garbage at the
extremity of a pair of tongs ? But how stands
the case now ? Realism is fast becoming di. piece
de resistance in fiction, and the same tendency is
observable in journalism of the first water."

'' That being so," observed Paston, *' it must
be a great consolation to reflect that when you
swim with the tide the liquid that supports you
is of the best quality. But, as you say, facts
have got to be dressed up now-a-days to look as
much like fiction as possible, if their compilers
want them to be worth much as * copy ' for the
papers ; and, by all the shams in devildom, you
know how to mix your colours, Mr. Bloss."

The editor was flattered. " Our organ will
not sound so blatant in a year or two as some
people think it does now," said he, smiling.

VOL. I. L

*' Yes, sir, the Frightful and the Scandalous
are the two best colours in the box. There is
nothing I know of better than these, — varied,
of course, with the sparkling interview, or
fancy sketch. Our trade presents a new field
for inventive genius, sir, a philanthropic opening
for original talent. And that reminds me,"
he added, going towards a speaking-tube, " that
we can show you a sample of the article." So
saying he whistled, and inquired if an individual
addressed as " Mac " was disengaged and would
step up to join them.

I always call him Mac," explained Mr. Bloss,
but that isn't his real name ; it's fond for
Machiavelli, who wasn't a Scotchman, I believe.
But the wily Italian would have been an innocent
at contriving ruses, compared to Edwards."

The hero of this eulogy, entering at that
moment, was forthwith presented to Arnold ;
Paston was already acquainted with him, so
there was no need to repeat the ceremony in his
case. Arnold saw before him a man midway
between forty and fifty. His hair and beard,
which was a thick one, were of a dull, colourless
complexion, — certainly not dark, but scarcely
pronounced enough to be called positively fair.
His head was beginning to turn grey in patches,
but his frame was wiry, and full of nervous
activity, like that of quite a young man ; in

short, the whole figure was that of one perpetually
on the alert. A police description would probably
have called him tall and slight ; but true
as such isolated characteristics might be, they
would be positively misleading if they stood
alone, unqualified by that strange physical tension
and agility which most of all occupied the observer's
attention, and recalled something of the
trained athlete.

Such was Arnold's impression of the man to
whom he bowed. Had he been watching him
less closely, he might have missed seeing a certain
inexplicable trace of embarrassment which showed
itself in Mr. Edwards' manner, and deepened the
habitual expression on his face, at the name of
Robur. Not that Arnold consciously connected
the two things at the time ; cruelty and fear are
only too commonly found together as ingredients
of character ; and the crafty advertising: aorent
had forgotten himself for once, and by a momentary
revelation furnished an example of this
unnatural compound. The phenomenon was
less surprising than disgusting, and the very
frequency with which nature is perverted, either
in this, or some other way, takes off the keen
edge of the disgust ; so that Edwards was soon
able by an elaborate assumption of ease to dispel
much of the bad impression caused by his
buno^linor.

L 2

Fortunately for him the voluble Bloss, with
his coarse familiarity, provided an invaluable
counter-irritant, and would almost have made a
blackamoor appear white by contrast.

*' There he stands, gentlemen ; our secret
emissary, the chief of our corps diplomatique.
Fresh from the foray, I'll be bound. Hast
scented carrion of late, my tame vulture, that
thou look'st so crop-full 1 "

The agent intimating that his morning had
not been idle, Bloss was transported to a degree
of admiration incapable of being communicated
to laymen.

Ah, Mac, Mac ! " he murmured with the tears
in his eyes, *' what an incorrigible old hardshell
you are ! "

'' The editorial nature may have its weaknesses,"
he went on to remark after this ebullition of
feeling, " but the sterner side soon conquers them.
The advertising department, I admit, is my one
vulnerable point ; it is the centre of our affections,
the home towards which all the imaginative
romance within us yearns. All the other
contents of our paper are subservient compared
to the advertisements. It is for them that wee
strive to make our articles attractive, and secure
a large circulation. It is for this end that Mac
and his attaches may be found everywhere,
cajoling and threatening. They have a difficult

mission to perform, but it is one worthy of a
man's intellect, and teems with grand possibilities.
To persuade the recalcitrant and backward, to
hold up before them the example of rivals who
are in the habit of keeping themselves before
the public notice by occupying the most prominent
spaces with their announcements ; to hint
the probability of the prudent inserted seeing
their goods, patents, or inventions specially
written up in a leader, and to suggest how
unpleasantly the consequences might affect those
who refuse to accept our offer of bettering their
own position, — all this affords scope for talent of
a very peculiar order, gentlemen ; now don't it ? "

Arnold turned to Edwards. '' So that is what
you have to do, is it • "' said he. Bloss was
engrossed in refuting: some cavil of the doc tor "s,
and his attention was evidently distracted for
the moment from his trusty scj^uire. Edwards
made sure of this before he replied.

'• AVell. not exactly. It may be quite true of
a business like this in its earlier st:„:-. l-ffore
it has established itself. Of course I l.;L t say
what dodges may not be employed occasionally
at such a time. All I can vouch for is that, for
the period during which I have been associated
with the success of the concern, the business
of my department has been quite open and
satisfactory."

Edwards lead reason to congratulate himself on
having seized the opportunity. He saw that it
would be easy to make his chief seem entirely
responsible for the bad impression which Arnold
had formed of these professional mysteries. As
for that fantastic young purist, if he chanced to
make any false inference from the agent's 
reply, it was at his own risk, and
he should have remembered that he was talking
to a diplomatist. Edwards had, indeed, been
associated with the Tuha through a great part
of its development ; having seen it grow to its
present dimensions, from what may be described
as its penny trumpet stage. But this is a
detail ; and, since audacity often turns out to
be the safest weapon in diplomacy, it remained
undiscovered.

Arnold was trying to believe that he had
judged this new acquaintance too harshly all
the time the latter was conducting him over
the office ; for they had slipped out of the
room for this purpose without disturbing the
others.

But when they had exhausted the novelty (to
the visitor) of the warehouse, and the publishing
and advertising departments, they had
scarcely approached any nearer to intimacy than
when they began ; and yet they talked a good
deal. The conversation was, however, not without

its effects ; Arnold left off attempting to
account for his odd antipathy to the agent on
any rational ground ; and Edwards was satisfied
that fortune had once again favoured her son,
by establishing beyond a doubt the identity of
Paston's friend with Hiram Rock's patron. He
did this by means of a few clever questions,
put with an off-hand air, and sounding like the
usual polite nothings which men improvise more
or less clumsily to tide over some casual intercourse.
Thus, checking a yawn, he asked Arnold,
with admirably simulated ennui, if he did not
wish himself in the country to enjoy the passing
gleam of sunshine.

I might do so more if I had not just come
up to town," was the response.

You are in a fortunate position, sir. Of
course I get my little annual outing ; but my
enjoyment of the beauties of nature, and all its
charms, is cut so short that it only makes me
feel the want of it all the worse afterwards.
Now and then I work up our agents in the
provinces ; but of course I seldom halt in any
but the larger towns. There's no pleasure about
that, because they all try to be like London, and
don't do it well."

That is certainly not the case in our part of
the world. We are rural in the good old humdrum
style ; but I should hardly suppose you

would know our neighbourhood," and Arnold
told him where it was.

No ; that's rather out of my beat ; the
Tubas awakening blast is scarcely likely to penetrate
to such a remote corner."

Cautiously abstaining from pumping the young
man much further, he conducted him back to the
editorial presence. Arnold's simplicity — which,
by the way, he rather overrated — seemed to
argue well for the success of the campaign which
had been so lately developed in the bookshop at
Copesbury. The chief obstacle in the way of its
fulfilment was the evident intimacy between its
projected victim and Paston ; and Edwards knew
the doctor well enough to feel that this circumstance
was an unlucky factor in the business.

It's a devilish happy coincidence, though,"
he mused, " my meeting them together here. I
know now who my enemies are, and I must be
careful not to show myself to them anywhere
near Oakleigh. I could turn this young fool
round my finger if he were alone. As he isn't,
we must keep things darker than ever."

Lunch was the next thing on the tapis, and
they all went to have it together at an adjoining
restaurant. Bloss told them how he had gone
over to Ireland early in life, and become connected
with a small provincial paper over there.
A bottle of port made him wax communicative,

and lie described his rapid rise to the post of
editor.

Home rule was the ticket, you know," said
he, favouring the company to a comprehensive
wink ; " and it wasn't until I persuaded the
governor to sell the property, and start here in
London, that 1 ripened into the fine old Tory
you see me. Alliterative epithets are as good a
stock-in-trade on one side as the other, and I
shouldn't be surprised if you see me some day
come forward in the cause of the immaculate
democracy, and all that sort of thing."

"Take care I don't expose you," said the
doctor ; '' such tampering with my cherished
convictions would justify me in killing you ofi
early when I get the chance."

Bloss laughed. "Not if I make you taste
your prescriptions first, doctor. The only thing
we want now," he proceeded, " is a good libel
case. Perhaps next year we shall be well able
to afford it, and then I shall try to persuade
the governor ; eh, Mac ? We must move heaven
and earth to give you a little commission of that
sort. Among all the list of pufi*s extraordinary
there's nothing like it. Remunerative ? don't
mention it."

What would our pious ancestors have thought
of the priesthood of journalism as exemplified by
Mr. Bloss ? The pastor appointed by the State

has been .said to be unable to deal effectually
with spiritual needs ; but what of his substitute,
the ' able editor ' ? Is there no cant or gabble,
no trace of vagueness or fatuity, in the gospel
which he delivers to the respectable and self-satisfied
?

Arnold had to keep an appointment with his
solicitor that afternoon ; so leaving Paston to go
his rounds, he set off for the City with a light
step, expressive of his relief at being at length
rid of his late companions. Arrived at his
destination, a clerk from the dingy outer office
showed him at once into a snug room, turkey-carpeted,
and adorned with engravings of legal
luminaries surmounting pigeon-holes and deed-boxes.
Here he was warmly greeted by the
senior partner of the firm ; who after a few
preliminaries proceeded to give him a detailed
account of the property of which he stood
possessed.

You are to be congratulated, Mr. Eobur, on
the enviable state of your affairs : " this was the
conclusion arrived at by the old gentleman after
his review of the administration of the estate by
himself and Mr. Dalton.

"Every year the value of land is more and
more depreciated ; but you will not be touched
directly by that, since only a small fraction of
your income is derived from that source. The

rest depends upon the very soundest securities
to be had in the market ; and your real estate
is not only of manageable extent, but comes to
you free from every sort of encumbrance."

Arnold thanked him heartily for the way in
which he had performed his stewardship, and
declined to look at the inventories of furniture
and valuables, merely asking that they might be
despatched to him at Oakleigh.

Your mother s jewels are at the bank," said
the senior partner. "At her death we checked
them off by a list which we found inside the lid
of the case. I grieve to say that a certain ring,
minutely described in the list, was missing, and
we have never been able to trace the suspicion
of its theft home to any one. It was the first
present ever given to her by your father, and
was the token of their engagement. I believe
it was a sort of heirloom in his family, and
seems to have been rather a valuable specimen
of mediaeval jewellery."

I think I remember it," replied Arnold. '' A
gold ring of massive workmanship, with a great
boss set with some large stone. It was so
big that my mother used to wear it with a
guard."

Yes, it was a man's ring. The stone was a
heart-shaped sapphire ; and the boss you speak
of was richly enamelled with crimson. There

was a motto inside, if I remember rightly ;
Amor rex et lex

Very likely ; I was too young to notice
that, but I could recognise the ring anywhere.
So the guard has disappeared with it ? ''

I suppose so ; probably it was not of sufficient
value to be mentioned separately. The
loss is quite unaccountable ; why something
more modern and less valuable for its associations
wasn't taken is a mystery to me. It is
most annoying that your general satisfaction
should have to be marred in this way ; but
you see it happened before the property came
under our control, and we have kept our own
counsel about it since."

Arnold hastened to relieve his kind friend of
any anxiety as to his reception of the disclosure,
and begged him to trouble his head no more
about the matter. Nevertheless he was considerably
exercised in his own mind, and thought of
nothing else all the way back to Wimpole Street.
He was convinced that neither Mrs. Marchpane
nor Gibbins knew anything about the sparkling
toy which he used to play with on his mother's
knee. Those honest souls would have told him
long ago if they had ever had a doubt of the
trinket being in safe and responsible hands. It
was probable, moreover, that Joshua did not
even know of its existence. Under the circumstances

lie resolved to say nothing about
the ring at home ; it would only make his faithful
old dependants miserable to no purpose.
Next he considered whether he should make a
confidant of Paston. At first he was inclined
to do so ; the doctor was just the sort of man
to come out with a shrewd suororestion on the

oo

subject. Afterwards, however, he reflected that
his friend would in all probability suspect the
wrong person, there being no data to go upon, —
if, indeed, the ring had been stolen at all. Anyhow,
it was always possible to share the secret in
the event of any future occurrence tending to
throw light on the question. Arnold's mind was
soon made up : in spite of his sceptical bias he
was not wanting in decision.

CHAPTER VIII.

Purport.

Silent he went by the sand of the many-thundering ocean."

"Well," said Paston, when he and Arnold were
seated together that evening discussing the state
of affairs, " now that you've got your business
matters settled, and the brilliant prospect before
you of becoming an occasional contributor to a
leading weekly, you think fit to go off a- wandering
again."

Excuse me, but I don't," replied Robur.

Cantankerous one, you have no sooner come
home than you have resolved to clear out again,
and I call that wandering : no matter if you do
mean finding a rest for the sole of your foot, and
sticking to it. So don't contradict. Personally,
I am of opinion that you are perfectly right.
You've been knocking about all over Europe
and seeing multitudinous cities of men, — even if

you haven't learnt their minds, like the godlike
much-enduring one : and you want rest."

I do," said Arnold ; " rest of a kind, that is."

Precisely : not unmitigated idleness, which
deluded mortals have persuaded themselves into
regarding as a synonym for the genuine article —
instead of being the most wearying, enervating,
and generally depressing way of passing the time
you can well find. Now it seems to me that tolet
yourself get bored is about the worst thing
you could do in your present frame of mind ;
and after the crowd of perpetual novelties you've
been getting accustomed to abroad, you would
get sick of Oakleigh precious soon. Hunting
isn't in your line, and the men who hunt would
make your life a burden, I should think."

Paston himself had never indulged in the
delights of the chase, and looked with supreme
contempt upon those whose lives, he conceived,
were given up to sport.

I don't fancy hunting, I own," said Arnold,
who was aware that his friend viewed that
occupation as he would have viewed vivisection
without the justification of scientific advantages
to be reaped from it ; " however, the question is,
where am I to go ? Consider the requirements
you've been enumerating. It's to be a place
where I shan't be bored and can't get overexcited."


Burnport," said the doctor laconically.

Burnport — well, what are the merits of that
delightful sea side resort ? "

Well, I defy you to get excited there, and if
you use your wits you needn't be bored. Where
there is sea, you can boat and bathe : and apart
from the intrinsic merits of speeding over the
harvested ocean, you'll find some of the sailors
excellent and refreshing society if you choose
judiciously. It'll do your nerves all the good
in the world. Have a weed."

*' Thanks, I will, having a firm belief that
tobacco is the best known cure for nerves."

"Which nobody can deny," said Paston, "barring
a few misguided members of my own profession
who I don't believe ever tried for themselves,
and the majority of the other sex, who
are jealous because Mrs. Grundy won't let them
assist in smoking the pipe of peace. They'd
smoke like chimneys if they were allowed, and
then they'd give up having hysterics. It is even
possible that they would become logical, though
that," quoth this misogynist, " is rather too much
to hope for. Go to Burnport, bathe, take exercise,
make some acquaintances if you can, and take
your pipe thoughtfully, as the immortal bard
recommends. And with the Taha Mirabilis to
back you up, and let off* your superfluous energy
on, you'll have got over your troubles in a month

even if your contributions occasionally find an
early grave in Mr. Bloss's wastepaper-baskets''

Excellent advice," said Arnold, applying a
match to his cigar, " if your diagnosis is correct,
Paston. But I don't believe in nerves : I never
had any in my life. The fact at the back of my
griefs, my friend, is the aimlessness of my present
existence, and till I find some sort of aim, I don't
believe I shall be cured of my eternal introspection
and worrying. Perhaps I shall find one
some day ; anyhow, we'll see what Burnport can
do towards providing something ; and at least it
ought to take me out of myself for a bit. Your
tonic shall have a fair trial, at any rate. I had
Burnport in my mind more or less before you
suggested it. Do you know anything of the
hotels there 1 "

Lots," said Paston ; and he proceeded to
give his friend sundry pieces of advice as to
the satisfactory management of matters at his
seaside abode.

So it was settled. Arnold returned to Oakleiorh
next day, to make such small preparations as were
needed before a more lengthened absence : and
disregarding Mrs. Marchpane's head-shaking at
what she viewed as mere love of wandering:
on his part, went off to Burnport, leaving the
care of his property to " rest upon " the shoulders
of the honest Gibbins.

VOL. I. M

We English, perhaps merely because we owe
everything to it, generally look upon the sea as
the emblem of that freedom which we have
always set before us as a national ideal. The
love of both, we like to think, is our birthright
as against all other nations, so that we alone
can understand fully the triumphant cry of the
wandering Greeks when they saw the Euxine
spread out before them. Be that as it may,
wee are all glad to get to the seaside, even that
majority to whom actual life on the ocean weave
would be productive of anything but poetical
thoughts or lofty emotions. For on shore we
can contemplate the waves without the actual
physical discomfort and insecurity ; and there
are few grander sights than a calm sea, excepta
stormy one. To stand and watch the breakers
rolling in, ' one crowd, but with many a crest,'
each like yet each unlike the last, rising in the
distance into a hissing point of foam which it
leaves behind, as it slides silent and unerring
from beneath it, then seeming to tower higher
than ever till it bursts in thunder, all white now,
and hurls its masses high into the air above the
grey cliff, and then draws back with a dying
moan and loses itself in its successor — this is a
sight not soon to be tired of. But it is scarcely,
less splendid when sudden squalls are darkening
it here and there with an ominous ripple, or

when it rests undisturbed, and only the slow
heaving remains to tell that there is still a
life there to be roused to the same wild fury.

It was in this last mood, sleeping in quiet grey
under the misty sky of November, that Arnold
saw it when he reached his destination, and, after
arranging matters at his hotel, strolled along
the bay in the direction of the old town. At that
season there are few visitors to Burnport, so that
there was no fashionable crowd on the Parade,
no bright colours in the shop-windows ; but
down here on the beach there was now and
again a group of children, finding all the delight
that children do in piling huge castles for the
waves to engulf and obliterate, in hunting out
the coy anemone from his little pool in the
rocks, or in the simpler but more adventurous
pleasure of standing just where the waves wash
up and running away with a scream of triumph
in time to escape dryshod, or of yet more frantic
ecstacy if they were just too late, and a larger
wave than usual washed over their boots while
the careless nursemaid's eyes were turned away,
fixed on the manly form of some dallying companion.
Farther on a group of donkey boys
were very anxious that Arnold should indulge
in quasi-equestrian exercises, and each was at
great pains to recommend the superior excellence
of his animal, though there was not the

M 2

slightest chance of any of them being put in
requisition ; and at another point was a line of
boats whose owners were equally emulous of the
honour of taking him out for a sail. But Arnold
was not to be tempted on this occasion, although
he had nothing to do, and the air was mild — for
the time of year at least. There was indeed
scarcely enough wind for sailing, and the sun was
quickly approaching the headland that shut in
the bay on the west : and Arnold wished to see
something of the place with such daylight as
was left him. So he turned a deaf ear to the
Sirens in oilskin, and sauntered on at his leisure
till he reached the quay in the old town.

Burnport, like many of our modern watering-places,
is a combination of two towns, the old
and the new. The new town is the fashionable
end, a modern collection of glaring white houses
and hotels, whose population fluctuates with the
seasons. Here is a parade, in summer gay with
colour and resounding with those curses of our
days, the brass band and the piano-organ, and
occasionally the nigger-minstrels' bones. Here
are innumerable lodging-houses, carriages and
perambulators, and plate-glass windowed shops
aflame with gas at night. And the dust and the
noise and the glare and the heat are just what
seem to attract most people to the place — though
whatever the charms of these qualities, it must

always surprise those who happen to dislike
them that they should be deemed requisite for
relaxation, or even compatible with the peace
and quietness which might be thought desirable
in a holiday retreat. Out of the season Burnport
is a very different place, and can hardly be found
fault with on the ground of over liveliness : yet,
strange to say, people have been found to prefer
it at such times.

The old town is quite different in character :
a jumble of red-roofed houses, all old and many
ruinous, climbing up the hill-side, no two alike,
or rather without arrangement, in narrow, crooked
streets. In short, it was picturesque ; and like
most picturesque things is well worth a visit,
provided the visitor has not too keen and delicate
a sense of smell. For the narrow streets aforesaid
are very dirty, and the place simply reeks
of fish fresh and stale, and the stale naturally
predominates. On the whole it is very quiet
at most times, except when the fishing-boats
come in and furl their brown patched sails, and
discharge their cargoes on the quay. Then
there is plenty of life there at least — what with
bringing in the boats, getting out the fish,
selling, sorting, and packing them. They sell
them by Dutch auction at Burnport ; such a
sale, thou oil wanting in the excitement of keen
competition which belongs to the ordinary

method, has an interest of its own. There is
a delightful uncertainty as to your neighbour's
intentions — what is the lowest price at which
you can be secure of acquiring some lot on
which you have set your heart — which, if it
were applied to sales where the prices are fixed
less by market value than by the fancy of the
buyer, would sometimes be maddening. But here
the purchasers have keen eyes and shrewd faces.
They know the worth of their wares and what they
will fetch, so that the issue lies between narrow
limits of profit. Yet there is a sufficient element
of chance to make the quay at such times a
lively and entertaining scene. But when the
boats are out, or wien there is no business beinor
done, the old town of Burnport is quiet enough.
Dirty children play in the gutters, and the
scolding of their shrill-voiced mothers — women
in fishing towns have harsher voices than anywhere
else — alone breaks the silence of the steep
paved streets, unless a chance cart rumbles
down them behind a heavy clanking horse.
Only the artist looks lovingly on the high-pitched,
red-tiled roofs, bulging, damp-stained
walls, and crazy windows with their little panes
patched up with any old rag that comes to
hand. They may all be most unpleasant and
unwholesome for their inmates, these houses,
but they are things of beauty to us, and we

should raise a great outcry if such monuments
of antiquity were to give way to glaring new
yellow-brick cottages with water-tight roofs,
and well-fitting window-frames.

Arnold picked his way slowly up the main
street among the decaying refuse that littered
it, and the dirty children whose chief object
seemed to be to obstruct his steps ; pausing now
and then to look at some particularly striking
bit of half-ruinous building, or to exchange a
few remarks on the weather with some ancient
mariner in blue jersey and fur cap, with the
bowl of his black clay pipe just protruding
upside down from his lips, as he loafed at the
door of the low-browed tavern. At last he
found himself on the outskirts of the town, close
to an old and tumble-down church standing in
the midst of a quiet little churchyard with the
graves of centuries beneath its rank, ill-kept
grass. He made his way in, and looked out
from his height over the sea where the twilight
was beginning already to settle down. Then
he wandered among the graves, many of them
simple mounds of nameless earth, others with
grey, weather-beaten headstones, from which
rain and sun and wind had obliterated all trace
of their record : mostly uncared for, and with
the nettles and wild weeds springing round andover
them. Some few were newer and more

legible, and most of these bore sad witness to
the ravages of winds and waves. Here was one
in memory of John Smith who lost his life at
sea after braving its terrors till he had passed
the threescore and ten years allotted to man's
life : perhaps he would have wished it so, rather
than to die in his bed. Another recorded the
death of a father and two sons — a whole family
in one storm, and so on. Arnold shuddered
and turned away from them. The grey November
evening was becoming chilly now that the
sun was gone. A white sea-fog was beginning
to rise and enfold the heights of the town, and
these ' cold Hic-facets of the dead ' were depressing.
He was glad to get away from them and
restore the warmth to his limbs by marching
briskly down the hill again, and back to the
cheerful light and heat of his hotel. Arrived
there he spent an hour or two in writing some
letters, and managed by dinner-time to shake
off his low spirits.

He was rather late of coming in to table
d'hote, and addressed himself immediately to
his soup. When that was finished he looked
round and took stock of the room and its other
occupants. There was a melancholy look about
the place, for it was a long room intended to
accommodate many times the number of guests
it at present held ; and consequently only one

end of it was fully lighted up, and empty chairs
seen in a dim light are apt to have a ghostly
and uncomfortable appearance. However, the
small company present where lively enough. At
the end of the table was a family — a mother
with two daughters and a son, — who were talking
and laughing in a way that showed that
they at least did not find Burnport altogether
dull. The mother was an active, energetic,
almost masculine-looking woman, with steady
black eyes and a firm mouth. The children
were all very like her, with the same black hair
and eyes ; but they none of them had her look
of strength. Indeed the boy and one of the
girls, who were extremely like one another, and
might be sixteen and seventeen years old, had
clear-cut features and a transparent, colourless
complexion which spoke of anything but robust
health, though in the girl they produced considerable
beauty of a certain order. Not far
from them were two maiden ladies of uncertain
age, who always seemed to have plenty
of gossip to communicate to each other, though
they did not look as if their conversation would
have very much interest for a third party. As
Arnold was criticising these and the few other
men and woolen who made up the party, his
next neighbour turned on him an amiable smile,
and a pair of corkscrew ringlets surmounted by

a nodding erection of lace and ribbons, which
may be left for the feminine imagination more
fully to picture.

You're a new arrival at Burnport, I think,"
she said slowly, in a high-pitched and somewhat
tremulous voice.

"A 'dear old thing'" thought Arnold.
'' Yes," he said aloud, " I only came here today."


'' Indeed ! I'm afraid you are likely to find it
rather dull."

Arnold laughed. " I was just thinking," he
said, " that people seemed to be able to find a
good deal of amusement in it, though I didn't
expect much when I came here."

Oh yes ! " and the ' dear old thing ' nodded
two or three times, making her grey ringlets
shake and those wonderful lilac ribbons in her
cap wave to and fro. " There is plenty of
amusement for old people who can take it
quietly, you know. But we don't often have
young men like you here at this time of year ;
I suppose they hardly know what to do with
themselves. It's apt to be so cold at this
season, you know, though this year we certainly
have had wonderful weather — quite wonderful !
So warm and nice ! "

You speak as if you knew the place well,"
said Arnold.

Ob yes, I often come here, I'm very fond of
Burnport ; it's such a nice, quiet place out of
the season. And one gets to know so many
people here, and they're such a superior class,
you know. I know the clergyman of the parish
very well ; he's such a dear old man, and
preaches so nicely. You really should hear
him. Do you stay here long ? "

Some time, I expect," said Arnold.

'you see," said the old lady, "my doctor
always advises me to come here — perhaps that's
because he knows I'm so fond of it, though. I
suffer terribly from gout, you know ; but I
never feel it here. Do you know," she continued,
'• I don't know why it is, but all the
doctors are recommending whisky for gout now.
I always take a little of it at dinner now, and I
find it does me all the good in the world."

Arnold smiled, and could not help wondering
maliciously whether there was the same reason
for this recommendation — that the doctors knew
their patients were so fond of it. However, he felt
that in this case the suggestion was uncalled for.

I suppose," he said, changing the subject,
after a pause, "there is plenty of boating and
fishing to be had here ? I saw a lot of unused
sailing boats down on the shore to-day, and
there were men loafing about, and very anxious
that I should take a sail."

Oh yes, if you're a good sailor and all that
sort of thing, and don't mind a little tossing
about, you know — for you who are young and
strong it doesn't matter ; but we don't always
have such fine weather as this, and the sea is
very rough sometimes at this time of year. I
never go on the sea myself; there are so many
many pretty walks all round here, and quite in
reach. Of course it's not as nice as it is in
summer for that ; but I can always find plenty
to see."

You don't tire of taking the same walk
always?" said Arnold. "Don't you ever feel
that you would like a little variety ? "

The old lady laughed and shook her head
again, making the corkscrew ringlets and lilac
ribbons bob up and down as if they appreciated
and joined in her amusement.

'•' Oh dear no ! " she said, " when you've lived
as long as I have you'll find the old things that
you've seen all your life the most entertaining.
It's only young folks like you that are always
in want of some new experience. We old people
know that there's nothing so new as the old
things. I should be quite happy with one walk
all the rest of my days, if it was a pretty one."

It was Arnold's turn to laugh now *' That
sounds very philosophical," he said. But he
felt that there was such a things as having; too

much of novelty, and envied the peaceful habit
of mind which was free from the craving he
himself felt for change and variety.

Of course," continued the old lady, " it's
quite right to get as much enjoyment out of
life as you can, while you're young and strong,
and can enjoy it. But when you can't get
about easily, and must take things quietly, ita
great blessing, as you'll find some day, to be
able to put up with it, and be just as happy
after all. It makes it so easy to trust in
Providence."

Arnold thought to himself rather bitterly that
Providence ' generally means ' Providence forme.'
Why should the comparison of a mass of
misery with a few grains of happiness induce a
greater trust in Providence, unless because every
man is to himself the centre of the universe ?
However, he kept his thoughts to himself,
farther reflecting that this old lady really had
a Providence to be thankful to, if it was nothing
but her own contented spirit. When she began
talking to him he had been merely amused at
her quaint appearance and way of talking ; but
afterwards, as he lit his cio*ar in the smoking
he bethought him of those probably very
self-satisfied and Pharisaical persons who came
to scoff" and remained to pray. And he felt
that he had learned one lesson that evening.

o

CHAPTER IX.

EAST RISE.

From women's eyes this doctrine I derive :
They sparkle still the right Promethean lire ;
They are the books, the arts, the Academies
That shows contain, and nourish all the world."

Lus's Labour s Lost.

A MAN who has no eye for beauty is necessarily
uncouth, be he never so crammed with the
learning of abstract sciences and books. AVe are
accustomed to regard with abhorrence the conduct
of the rustic who, when his path was crossed
by a harmless, necessary toad, expressed his
unreasoning spite against Nature's handiwork
by taking a clumsy jump into the air and coming
down hobnailed on the hapless offender, with
the remark, " I'll larn thee to be a twoail." The
contempt bred by familiarity with such objects
in his case is probably too outrageous not to
sicken any one but an agricultural hind ; but it
is scarcely ' contrary to experience ' that quite

cultured persons should display an indifference
only less brutal.

Arnold hated what he called, perhaps a little
unjustly, the ' natural science spirit ' with a
Vatican hatred. When he admired a thing, a
landscape, a picture, or a poem, he did not wish
to be forced to analyse the feeling down to the
elements which composed it. In the case of
artistic workmanship it doubtless contributes to
the enjoyment of the effect to know to some
extent how it is produced. But even that
knowledge would be dearly bought at the price
of being unintermittently conscious of the mechanism
underneath, the metallic pulse that
beats inside the greatest of human creations,
preventing them from seeming aught but life-like
counterfeits, only to be called alive by some
magnificent hyperbole.

The society of people imbued with such a
spirit always worked a speedy reaction in Eobur,
and made him long for countrified simplicity
with all its faults. At any rate Nature, wide
ruling through the empire of earth and sea and
sky, the Universal Mother who embraces tiny
man, and is not embraced of him, — She cannot
be explained away on the leather-and-prunella
hypothesis. So thought our hero as he strolled
down to the beach for a sail. Few amusements
had so much charm for him as this newly

discovered occupation. He was an excellent sailor,
and under the experienced tuition of an ancient
mariner, was fast learning the secrets of tacking
skilfully, and so to manage the little craft which
he had hired, as to keep clear of the dangers of
that coast.

On this particular morning there was a considerable
wind blowing, quite enough, in fact, to
fill a good-sized hat, if it belonged to a landsman.
The sea was running high, so the crew gave up
all thoughts of fishing that day. Now flying
cheerily before the wind, which all the while
pursued unmercifully, now breasting the waves
almost in its teeth, they drank in the brave
blast through all their pores, until very hunger
compelled them to put back to shore. Arnold
was the only pleasure-seeker who had ventured
to mock Father Neptune's rough mood, and as
they neared the landing a small crowd began to
collect on the edge of the parade above to watch
them disembark.

Look alive, mates," shouted the old salt from
the bows, as he threw the coil of rope to his
confederates in the surf.

Just at this moment Arnold, whose eyes had
wandered to the knot of spectators, caught sight
of a face looking straight at him which produced
in him so sudden and exquisite a thrill that he
immediately forgot what he was doing ; though

lie should have been ready to jump ito the
water to haul the vessel up. But the boat
settled that for him as she grounded, by tumbling
him overboard unceremoniously, to the huge
delight of the spectators. However, he scrambled
ashore, laughing and dripping ; but none the
worse.

His first thought was to look for the unions



scions cause of his ducking. There she stood, a
little apart from the others, evidently a good
deal amused at the incident, to judge from the
smile which parted her lips. Arnold looked at
the tall, firm figure with its fresh glory of grace
and strength, the plain black dress, the glow of
health in the delicate cheek.

"What a picture ! " he mused. '' How I wish
I were a real sailor, and not a land-lumbering
amateur ! A jolly day's work on the briny, and
then to come home and lay the nets and lobster-pots
at the feet of a lass like that. But I'm a
fool, and she's an empress."

So he wiped the salt out of his eyes, and
ios^o^ed back to the hotel cummins the " three
fishers," and carrying his heavy clothes with a
lio-ht heart.

If one wants to see much of a particular person,
it is remarkable with what frequency the
desire is accomplished. Whether by accident or
premeditation, it is certain that scarcely a day

VOL. I. N-

passed without giving arnold a glimpse of the

charmer before whom he had made so undignified

a first appearance. There is reason to believe,

however, that he was not wholly guiltless in the

matter, as his devotion to the sea-wall and parade

began immediately after breakfast, 'and lasted

unremittingly till evening. Such vigilance could

not remain long unrewarded, and the young

lady's admirer soon made a few idle discoveries

about her, without obtruding himself upon her

attention, or in any way putting her modesty to

the blush. Though he abstained from enshrining

the merits of her locks and eyebrows within the

severe technical compass of sonnet or ode, it was

not from any unworthiness in the subject. The

hair that escaped beneath the simple hat she

wore was in colour of that happy mean — scarcely

to be called golden-^ which lies between auburn

on the one hand and flaxen on the other, and is

very distinct from either ; a complexion similar

to that which may be supposed to have prevailed

among the Teuton hordes whose bodies fertilised

the plain of Aix. For the maid's eyebrows

bounteous Nature had used a slightly darker

shade, and set them to grace eyes grey as those

of the Olympian spouse of Zeus ; eyes at once

keen and tender, capable of taking the colour

from whatsoever object they rested upon and

felt with, yet not so as to abdicate their own

imperial originality. She was never alone, but
Arnold hardly noticed her companions — friends,
perhaps, or servants. Sometimes she was accompanied
besides by two well-trained but frolicsome
fox-terriers. Whenever he passed her she was
always chatting eagerly, and was evidently full
of energy and humour. A sketching portfolio
would not unfrequently appear under her arm,
and Arnold concluded from this that she attended
the School of Art, a flourishing institution at
Burnport. An active gait, with rather a long
step for a woman, gave her an air of purpose, so
different from the desultory loiter and invalidism
of other individuals of her own sex and age, and
crowned her attractions.

It is a hard thing to have to say, but from all
this sweet wholesomeness and common-sense
Arnold inferred that she had lost her mother
early in life ; and the supposition was supported
by the quiet black dress which she invariably
wore. Maternal influence cannot be overrated,
and it is just for this reason that when it is bad
it is so hopelessly pernicious. From the day
when Eebekah tampered with her son Jacob how
often has not the injunction, *now, therefore,
my son, obey my voice according to that which
I command thee," brought misery to the children
who have been forced to comply with it ? And
yet in modern times, at least, the evil influence

N 2

of the mother with the sons is almost beneficial
compared to its effects upon the daughters.
Their position of tutelage is not so soon, if ever,
impaired as it now is in the case of their brothers ;
they depend almost entirely upon their mother,
who in nine cases out of ten must be positively
unfit to discharge her responsibility. The proper
performance of the most difficult of social functions
is not a matter of instinct, even if the flighty
matrons who carelessly undertake it could lay
claim to any useful development of that faculty.
AVild and exuberant affection is common to all
animals who are parents, and is a pretty sight
enough ; but is there to be no difference in its
manifestation between the cat and the cat's
mistress ? What is the period of engagement
between a young couple for ? It cannot be to
prepare for the mere procreation of offspring and
subsequent maintenance of their bodily temperature
; that is mainly a question of pounds, shillings,
and pence. And yet the sweethearts can think
of nothing but themselves for months, or even
years, before they are finally wedded. The union
which is to call new generations of human souls
into existence is seldom sanctified by the least
forethought for the happiness of a potential
progeny whose being is so often at the mercy
of the parents' whim. The man has no time to
think of such things, he must work for his livelihood

; the maid has become wedded to her
mother's teachings and traditions before she is
allowed to receive the addresses of a man, and
she is powerless to unmake herself when the
troth is plighted.

This is not the worship of sacred Love, but a
grovelling affectation, a gross faith in fabricated
allurements for entrapping wealthy lovers, a
superstition of tight-lacing, which cramps the
soul not less than its casket, before the novice
may be initiated, and take part in the rites of
the Moloch of maternal vanity." May the
swindled votaries of that gloomy creed be treated
to stale denunciations of their practises at the
hands of authors and moralists till the error is
confessed, and Pudicitia returns to earth.

Arnold gave himself up completely to the
fascination of this fair young creature, but he did
not run risk of embarrassment by following her
about. Thus he remained voluntarily ignorant
of where she lived, and consulted no list for the
purpose of ascertaining her name. From the
circumstance of the Art School, as well as from
other slight indications, he judged her to be a
resident in the place, or at least to be making a
prolonged stay at Burnport. It was pleasant to
see her about ; and he allowed what must be
nothing but a transient vision of delight to
entwine itself with a too obstinate intricacy in

the texture of his life during those brief days.
After all, was he not soon to return to Oakleigh,
and go on living in the old way among the folks
at home ? The thought troubled him whenever
it arose; but he put it away with blind determination,
resolved to enjoy the spell while it
lasted at all costs.

He had received a letter from Mr. Dalton soon
after his arrival at the seaside, but had put it in
his pocket without much heeding the contents.
One day, however, he suddenly remembered that
it had asked him to call upon two maiden ladies
who lived at Burnport, and with whom Grace
had gone to school at Brighton in former years.
He found the letter again, and read it over. The
Misses Blunsden, it seemed, had retired from
their profession, and were now living at their
ease on the little portion they had scraped together
for themselves. They had taken a house
in another watering-place, not being able to tear
themselves from the sea which had grown to
form part of their idea of home. Mr. Dalton
added that he had written to acquaint them with
the proximity of his old ward, and was sure that
they would pay him every attention if he would
compliment them by a visit. " They seem to bea
very estimable pair of old ladies, and Grace was
very fond of them," he concluded.

Heigh-ho," sighed Arnold, as he folded up

the letter ; " my guardian angel in spectacles and
a black coat has not lost his hold upon me yet, I
see. I'll go and accept the worst these old ladies
can do for me this afternoon."

East Rise was the name of a gentle ascent at
right angles to the parade. The houses built at
intervals upon this slope looked as if they were
climbing up-stairs in order to get a good view of
the sea over each other's heads. The wand of
some enchanter having defeated this project by
turning them to stone or stucco where they stood,
they all had to make the best of it, and remain
contented with their present situations, though
only a few had reached the coveted altitude. A
similar eminence opposite was called West Rise,
and between them was a little glen which had
been converted into a public garden accessible
from the roads on each side by rude steps and a
steep path. Adhere the roads joined at either
end, and became one, there were other entrances
more worthy the dignity of a municipal pleasure-ground.
It was tastefully laid out, the turf
being carefully fenced in to prevent it from
being downtrodden and spoiled ; the pond with its
water-lilies, and little colony of ducks and swans, —
quite a miniature Serpentine — was also protected
with railings. The place was so sheltered that a
good many flowers were blooming even at that
season ; there were shrubberies, and summerhouses,

a:ncl retired corners provided with seats,
not to mention an old-fashioned yew maze at the
farther end up the hill The single row of houses
on each side would have had an uninterrupted
view of each other as well as the garden below,
had it not been for the trees which shot up into
the air from the banks, forming a sufficient
barrier between East and West, in spite of their
denuded state.

Arnold learned upon inquiry that Miss Blunder
and her sister inhabited a picturesque little
house near the summit of East Rise, and he
delayed no longer to make himself acquainted
with its interior.

Both ladies were in the drawing-room, and
rose to meet him. One of them who was rather
tall and gaunt, and looked the elder, though she
was not so in reality, had been reading the paper
aloud, and still wore a somewhat masculine pair
of eye-glasses on the end of her nose. The other
had a frame of embroidery on a small table in
front of her, and was evidently engaged upon
some matter of ecclesiastical drapery.

She had a smooth, un wrinkled face, and her
smile of greeting disclosed a perfect set of teeth.
Arnold thought he had seldom seen so sweet an
expression.

We are very glad indeed to know you, Mr.
Eobur; any friend of our dear Mrs. Dalton

would be welcome here, would he not, Joanna
dearest?" Miss Blunsden and Mrs. Dalton, though
their acquaintance was but slight, had managed
evidently to conceive a warm regard for each
other.

The lady to whom appeal was made breathed
upon her glasses preparatory to polishing them
with her pocket-handkerchief, and replied : " Of
course he would, Hilda ; take a seat, Mr. Robur,
and tell us all about Grace."

Arnold willingly complied, pitying that young
lady rather for ever having been at the orders of
such a Tartar as Miss Joanna appeared to be.
They were much interested with all he had to
tell them, and frequently interrupted him withall
sorts of sharp little questions. Whenever he
had occasion to mention Mrs. Dalton's name he
observed that it had an effect, though a different
one, on both his hearers. Miss Blunsden's smile
waxed sweeter, while her sister's evinced a
tendency to grimness. He thought of the embroidery
; it did not seem improbable that Miss
Hilda and Mrs. Dalton had found common
ground in Church matters.

It must be five years since Grace left us,"
said the elder lady, taking up a skein of silk.
*' She was seventeen, and went abroad to finish.
She was such a sweet girl, but never very strong ;
do you consider her stronger now, Mr. Robur ? "

Arnold replied that lie believed she was in the
enjoyment of tolerably good health ; he had been
away lately, and had not much opportunity of
knowing.

We have often heard from Grace since she
left," said Miss Joanna ; " she was a nice, unruly
little thing when she came to us. I suppose she
wouldn't care to toss her bonnet into the sea, and
try to run in after it now, but she did so almost
the first time I took her out at Brighton. ' You
must ask your father's consent before you go
throwing his money away like that, child,' I
remember saying to her. For my part, I like
boys and girls to have something a little stronger
than water in their veins," she added with a
short laugh; 'but Grace got prim and proper
afterwards."

Miss Hilda opened her eyes very wide. " Why,
you never breathed a word of it to me, Joanna
dearest. I'm positive I never heard about the
bonnet till this minute."

No doubt," was the dry rejoinder ; '' you
did not have to take the children out, and there
was no occasion to bother you about it. You
would have never left off fretting yourself if you
had known all your young ladies did when they
were out for their walks."

Yes," observed the fair embroiderer, after
murmuring her surprise at her junior's audacious

defiance of j^nnciple in concealing these tidings ;
we are glad to get away from Brighton and
settle down in a place where there is less
respectability."

Good gracious, Hilda ! Surely you don't
mean in proportion to the population ? I won't
hear Burnport libelled."

My dear Joanna, you are a Philistine. Mr.
Kobur will understand me, if you cannot. Do
not you hate respectability, Mr. Eobur ? "

Well — er — that rather depends on what you
mean by the word."

Miss Hilda's questions had a way of making
one feel awkward.

"Exactly," cried she triumphantly; ''I see
you fall in with my views entirely. Just so ; I
knew you would."

If," said Arnold, making an effort to undeceive
Miss Joanna, " you mean simply honest
and unpretending mediocrity, I'm afraid I do
not agree with you. But when folks are mediocre,
and plume themselves on it, they are apt to
become offensive."

A good answer," said Miss Joanna, darting
a frown at her tranquil sister. The latter smiled
composedly.

I am glad you can agree with me now, my
dear. Mr. Eobur, you don't know what an
obligation you've laid upon me in making Joanna

see the truth of my little remark. If lie ever
happens to forget it, I shall remind her that she
has herself heard you give me your authority."

The object of this rebuke was amused, and
gave Arnold a sly look as much as to say, " You'll
know her soon as well as I do."

'' Your estate is near the Daltonss', isn't it, Mr.
Kobur ? Can you get up a strong interest in
pigs and poultry, or in competing with your
neighbours for having the biggest cattle and
cauliflowers ? "

Abandoning is, indeed, my occupation. Miss
Blunsden ; but I hope you won't be hard upon
me for saying that, much as I like to see my
place full of animals and vegetables, my practical
knowledge of such matters amounts to just
nothing at all."

For shame, Mr. Robur, you must not neglect
your duties like that ; I declare it's as bad as
being an absentee landlord."

"Joanna, you dear dreadful Radical, leave
poor Mr. Robur alone ; anyone can see, you
impetuous creature, that he has not had time yet
to look into all these things since he returned to
live at his home."

The fiery Joanna acknowledging that there
might be some truth in this. Miss Hilda exhorted
Arnold to accept her apology, and went on to
observe that a landlord could be a very goodman,

and yet have interests nearer to his heart
than farming. Arnold thanked her for this piece
of liberality, and admitted that it was so in his
own case ; there were a few tenants on his land,
and he was glad to say their wants had not been
left entirely without his personal supervision.

Not that the condition in which my guardian
handed them over to me stood in any need of
reform," he added. *' But I thought it well to
mingle with them, not having too many companions
of my own ; and so I know all the
families pretty well by this time."

Then," said Miss Hilda, beaming upon the
young man, " you are fond of the poor, Mr.
Roberto

fonder of them than of the rich, as long
as there is nothing; against the latter but their
wealth," laughed he. " You see, it was a mere
accident that I was thrown up against them, and
there was no choice left me in the matter. I am
not in the least anxious to divide my property
into allotments for the behoof of my poor friends,
and content myself with two or three acres of
it like the rest. Perhaps that will make you
change your blessing into a curse, Miss Blunsden."
It is now my turn to say for shame, Mr.
Robur. But I must take the liberty to doubt
your sincerity just a little bit. Please don't
fidget, Joanna dearest," for that lady seemed

about to relieve her mind. "I am sure you do
yourself an injustice," she continued, "when
you talk as if you thought the poor did not
deserve more consideration from us than the
rich. Do you not sympathise with missions in
overcrowded towns ? Surely the parish priest
ous^ht to be found in humble cottages rather
than at groaning tables in great houses ? "

"Not if the rich were as numerous as the
poor," observed Miss Joanna, with uncompromising
gruffness.

My dear Joanna, if you can't see the point,
pray be quiet," replied her sister with mild
superiority. " When vre came here, Mr. Eobur,
a great spiritual need for something of the sort
had long been felt, but nobody knew how to
supply it. The Guild of St. Guthlac has, however,
now been formed ; and its members, inconsideration,
I suppose, of my public services,
have elected me as their first Mother Superior.
We are all ladies, you know, except the curate,
who is chaplain to the Guild. Our object is to
try and create some religious enthusiasm among
the poor women of our parish, and restore something
of that sweet devotion which prompts
the lowest classes of the Roman towns on the
continent to decorate their churches and homes
with candles and little paper ornaments at the
Feasts."

On Arnold inquiring what means were being
adopted to further that end, ]bliss Blunsden
informed him that the chief instrument in this
important reform was at present the art of
embroidery. It appeared that the whole Guild
was employed upon a complete set of vestments
and hangings, including a variety of changes of
raiment that was quite bewildering. The work
upon the frame was a design for a single square
of the festal altar-cloth w^hicli was to make
memorable the anniversary of St. Guthlac's day,
and the whole of the succeeding octave. It
represented a sort of medallion with the head
and shoulders of the saint. Arnold was forced
to praise the workmanship, so much of it as was
completed ; but in his heart he did not consider
the portrait a flattering one, and sincerely hoped
that the countenance of the "blessed original"
had been less blotchy in life, both for his own
happiness and that of his flock.

When we have completed all these pious
exercises," said the Mother Superior, replacing
the tissue-paper over her patron's visage, " we
shall of course have to find some other method
of feeding souls ; but this weill occupy our diligent
fingers for some time, and no doubt things
will be made clear to us as wee go along."

arnold devoutly hoped they would. It seemed
to him that Miss Hilda must spend a considerable

sum per annum upon gratifying her hobby.
However, he did not feel called upon to offer a
contribution, and soon rose to go.

Joanna might like to ask you to take part
in her Sunday school while you are here, only
she's asleep." Arnold glanced towards the
slumbering Joanna, and implored Miss Hilda not
to disturb her on his account. But the mischief
was done, and the glasses were picked up from
the floor, and put on her nose, to enable their
owner to have another good look at Arnold as
she said good-bye. Apparently she had heard
nothing of her sister's hint about the school, for
she said not a word of it.

Let me see," said Miss Hilda, as she gave
Arnold her hand, " to-day is Tuesday ; can you
dine with us on Thursday evening ? "

The invitation was accepted, and Arnold left
the house.

As he walked down the hill he could not help
thinking how much more interesting the sisters
had been than he expected to find them. The
elder one, with her gentle voice and manner
softening down her inconsequent argumentative-ness,
was an agreeable study. He fancied he
should like the odd, downright Joanna more,
though, when he got to know them better. Her
shrewd, crisp way of saying things pleased him,
and harmonised with his bent. If we cannot

have both good wine and a good vessel, let us at
least have the good wine. Some people think
claret tastes better out of a black bottle than
when it has been transferred to a cut-glass
decanter. Perhaps Arnold was not of that
opinion ; but he could be none the worse for
being reminded sometimes that divine possibilities
may be shrouded beneath a matter-of-fact
exterior. Moreover, is not beauty a relative and
an arbitrary quality ? We can even educate
ourselves to admire what we know to be good.
*' Beauty fades fast, pigskin will last," says the
proverb ; argal, pigskin is not without a beauty
of its own, if we could but see it.

Turning the corner into the parade he found
himself to his confusion within a foot of the
incarnate refutation of the truisms with which
his mind had just been busy. Had a division
been taken on the question at that moment, he
would have unhesitatingly voted against himself,
himself, that is, as he was while the corner
still intervened. So often is the difference between
denial and assent a thing of inches, a span,
a hairbreadth.

It was fortunate that he had paid his call that
afternoon ; for when he got back he found a
letter from Mrs. Dalton inquiring whether he
had yet seen " those old darlings, the j\Iiss
Blunsdens." He was able to sit down at once,

VOL. I. o

and reply in the affirmative, describing his impressions
while they were still fresh. This he
did with all the circumspection necessary in
dealing with his correspondent ; for it is a
dangerous thing to commit oneself to a person
who never misses the opportunity for an act of
imprudence. There was one passage in the letter
upon which Arnold was unable to satisfy the
lady's curiosity ; it ran thus : —

Grace wants to know if they have still got
their niece with them ; she was about Grace's
own age, I suppose."

There certainly was a piano in the room,
thought Arnold ; but that may very well be
nothing but a medium for Miss Hilda's Gregorian
during especially severe attacks of ritualistic
afflatus. No ; he had not noted any
conclusive evidence of the existence of a niece
in the house on East Rise, nor had the sisters
mentioned her, he was sure of that. So he
inserted a clause to that effect, and fastened
up the envelope for the post.

A day spent almost entirely without exercise
in the open air did not agree with Arnold, and
that night he got very little sleep. Once he
threw himself out of bed impatiently, and drew
back the curtains to look out at the night. The
moon was bright enough to read by ; it shone
coldly on the deserted beach, and the sails of

herring-boats scattered here and there in the

o

distance. The cold air roused him. " This is
bad, very bad," he muttered, as he rushed back
to bed, and buried himself under the blankets.
After that he fell into a heavy doze, and dreamed
that he dined with bliss Hilda, and Mrs. Dalton
was there. Miss Joanna did not sit down to the
table, but waited upon the company disguised ina
ritualistic tail-coat and shovel hat. The first
course consisted of a shoal of herrings, and Miss
Hilda insisted on helping him to several dozen
at once. They were very fresh, and not thoroughly
cooked ; and as they would not proceed with the
meal before he had eaten every one, he was forced
to gorge silently while the others talked, and was
nearly choked by the time his plate was removed.
A huge dish made its appearance next upon the
table, — Arnold could not see how it got there, —
and Mrs. Dalton said, " Now comes the surprise*'
All efforts to remove the cover were, however, in
vain ; and Arnold was standing up and had just
begun to tug away at it, the others holding down
the dish, when — he awoke.



CHAPTER X.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

Cons I here to meet some lion-beaded fellow, I warrant, with
his damned double-barrelled swords and cut-and-tbrust pistols
! — Lord bless us, it makes me tremble to think o't! —
These be such desperate bloody-minded weapons ! Well, I
never could abide 'em — from a child I never could fancy
'em ! — I suppose there an't been so merciless a beast in the
world as your loaded pistol ! " — The Rivals.

One morning the post brought much disquiet to
Mrs. Marchpane's tranquil spirit. Not that the
plain Burnport postmark on the envelope stood
as a decoy for anything of an explosive nature
in the contents, but it was clear to Joshua Gibbins
when he came in shortly afterwards that something
was harassing the good lady's mind, and
with characteristic pessimism he instantly prepared
for the worst.

'what do you think I've heard from Mr.
Arnold about, Joshua *? " He was right, then ;
a month of unmitigated happiness could not
go by without some compensating misfortune

to show for it. Smothering his natural exultation
at having prognosticated events with so
much judgment, he replied — ■

Shouldn't be surprised, now, to hear he'd
broke his legs — If it ain't his neck, mum," he
added with a brightening aspect, as he saw his
mistake. Even the penetrating Gibbins failed
to perceive the incongruity of a person with a
dislocated medulla oblongata writing to acquaint
his housekeeper with the distressing fact. Such
is the fallibility of human intellect.

La, Joshua, whatever made you think of
that ? To hear you, a body might think you
wished it to happen."

*' Well, I won't be saying' as I don't, mum," he
rejoined, in a tone of sepulchral resignation.
Something's sure to happen to him one o'
these days when he's a gally-wanting' about, and
enjoying' of himself ; and the sooner it comes the
sooner mended, says I."

The old Greek spirit lived again in Joshua
Gibbins, though it might seem scarcely recognisable
at first sight. Overweening success was
his bugbear ; and he now felt himself to be in
the same predicament as the monarch who had
his ring returned to him from the sea into which
he had cast it to appease the jealousy of heaven.

"It does make one feel as though there couldn't
be a brighter side nohow," he murmured, in his

disappointment at learning that Arnold's prosperity
continued as yet undiminished.

Mrs. Marchpane was half alarmed by his persistence.


What makes you think anything's going to
happen to the dear young gentleman, Joshua ? "
she inquired.

But the seer could only evasively reply to this
by remarking, "Well, it keeps going on a-delayin,
and delaying', such a time that when it does come
I reckon it'll be pretty hard to bear, that's all."

It isn't much, anyhow," said the housekeeper.
" I declare you're just like the man
in the Scriptures who was always making honest
people uncomfortable by prophesying something
unpleasant ; I've no patience with you."

I believe it come to pass, mum, jest the same,
whether they liked it or not," was the provoking
repartee.

None the faster for his talking about it,
though." Mrs. Marchpane was nettled by his
unexpected pugnacity. '' The newspapers are
always saying there's going to be a war somewhere
or other, — at least, they used to when I
read 'em, for I've given 'em up long ago. But
catch them telling about the peace and happiness
that's everywhere ; they don't ever think
o' that."

Mr. Gibbins was understood to deliver himself

of the opinion that this was an essentially feminine
view, though not, it would appear, upon that
account a good one.

I don't say there's anything again 'em,"
he went on, alluding to the frail sex, " 'kept
just one beetle indiscretion ; they alius want to
think favourably o' things, and take 'em on trust.
Naturally they gets disappointed pretty often."

"Yes, they do take things on trust, as you
say, Joshua ; and bless their hearts for it. I
wouldn't be a man to go holding goods up to
the liorht, and getting: 'em as bargains on account
of the flaws. Why you ain't content, however
cheap you got a thing, if you know it's rubbish."

Mrs. Marchpane's honour having been satisfied
by this attack on the enemy's camp, she imparted
the information, by way of changing the subject,
that someone was coming from Copesbury to
catalogue the books, and that he would probably
stay in the house over two or three nights.

"What's he want with the books, then?
Master ain't going' to sell 'em, surely F "

"Sell them! Whoever talked of selling ?
Why, he only wants a list made omit, so ashe
may know what he's got from what he
hasn't."

'Sorter takin' stock ; eh, mum ? "

That's it. And he says you're to look after
the man and make him comfortable. He'll smoke

his pipe with you downstairs of an evening, and
he can have that Httle room in the passage upstairs
to sleep in''

*' Eight you are, mum ; I'll attend to the chap,
rest upon me."

Arnold kept no other man-servant in the house,
so Gibbins occupied melancholy bachelor quarters
in the basement. When offered a cottage he had
declined, preferring his two rooms, to which he
had grown as much accustomed as the mice in
their wainscoted. Many must have been the
profound confidences entrusted to these walls
by their philosophic tenant ; for Gibbins, though
possessed by one idea, had but few words to put
it in, and found the chief vent for his wit and
wisdom in soliloquising, undisturbed by animate
creation. Not that he held each representative
of the latter class to be equally untrustworthy.
A varying degree of reticence among animals was
to him a thing undoubted. He would maintain
that the domestic cat carried off the palm in this
respect, and that a place could be assigned to
every other species on the graduated scale
between the feline at "the top and the human
at the bottom of the ladder. In this system
vermin and insects did not count, being creatures
simply designed to destroy and be destroyed,
and without a claim to consideration
on any other ground. Still, he could never

quite throw off his reserve before even a cat.
The real sweets of intimacy were only to be
enjoyed in what some silly folks call solitude
(much they know about it !) between four
walls. The companions with ears but no mouths
were the ones for him. There was no danger
of wearying them with continual repetition, and
always harping on the same string ; and this
was held by some of his human associates to
be not the least of Mr. Gibbins' failings. Walls
will vibrate just as cheerfully to the old string
as to a new one, — indeed a certain amount of
iteration seems necessary to make them vibrate
at all sympathetically. Besides, even should
they feel surfeited by so much solo music, they
are too grave and decorous to show it.

Descending to his den, Joshua carefully closed
the door preparatory to unburdening his mind
of a kind of appendix or excursus in further
elucidation of the subject which had just received
such insufficient ventilation upstairs.

I doubt some mischief '11 come o' this 'ere
messina' with the books," he grumbled. '' What's
a man want a-numberin' of his goods for, I should
like to know, till 'e's got to die and leave 'em ? "

Mr. Gibbins, it will be perceived, considered it
to be just as bad to count chickens after they are
hatched as before ; or rather, the former operation
was in his sight the more pernicious of the two.

Had he been the founder of a sect, his followers
would have been free to speculate on possibilities
to any extent, so long as they 'dutifully shut
their eyes to facts, — a characteristic which
generally connects the most opposite sets of
opinions.

Deep in one of those ethical problems which
are always recurring to active minds, he went on
meditatively.

If them books was to be counted wrong,
now ; how's that be ? Seems to me the brighter
side o' things might come uppermost then, after
all ; " and he rubbed his chin slowly with his
coat-sleeve for a minute, pondering the matter.
That's it," he resumed ; brightening as if with
the result of this inspiring process, " I'll jest go
up afore that chap comes, and get one or two o'
those books, — little 'uns, you know." (This
with a confidential nod towards the listening
walls.) " I can stow 'em away safe down here
somers, and then 'others won't count right.
Afterwards, when he's gone, back I takes 'em
again, and stuffs 'em in behind the big 'uns, so as
nobody won't see no difference. Ah, what a
thing it is to lev a 'eat to rest upon." Here he
shook the appendage in question, and chuckled
complacently. " She wouldn't 'a thought o' that,
for all she's such a sharp 'un. How I should
like to tell her about it, and see what she'd say !

But I durst do it ; no, no ; why, she might
upon say she must put it in my head, like ; aye,
and prove it too ; that 'ud come easy enough, I
lay, with that tongue of hers. No, ] don't want
no talk about it ; so unsettling. Else she might
deny it wasn't no use. Well, I know better n
that."

Further introspection seeming to add no fresh
result, this honest Jesuit rose to carry out his
dark purpose, and it was barely executed before
the excellent bookseller, bearing a capacious
carpet-bag, made his appearance on the scene.

No juncture could have been more favourable
than that at which he had offered his services to
Arnold. His letter, stating the time when he
would be free to undertake the work, had been
forwarded to Burnport, and a reply accepting his
offer had arrived from that place only two days
before. Upon its receipt he had written immediately
to Edwards, informing him that all
necessity for keeping himself in the background
had been providentially removed, as the coast
was now clear, and there could be no danger of
his being recognised.

Get leave of absence from your governor
for a couple of days," he had concluded, " and
come down to nose round for yourself. I am
to sleep in the house, and you can easily put
up within reach at the inn."

The news was extremely gratifying to his
correspondent, and the necessary alterations in
Edwards' plans were soon made. He was prepared
to hear of Arnold's absence, being one of
those generally lucky persons for whom Gibbins
would have prophesied a calamitous future.
Nevertheless he regarded it as a fortunate coincidence
that he would now be able to see that
Rock played him no tricks, for mutual confidence
was scarcely a marked feature of their partnership,
old as it was. He therefore determined to
personate the bookseller's assistant by the aid of
his oldest clothes, and a second-hand wide-awake,
and announced his intention of arriving at Oakleigh
the day after his supposed master had been
installed in the library.

That accomplished diplomatist succeeded at
once in making a favourable impression on Mrs.
Marchpane. When asked if he preferred to take
his meals alone, or in the housekeeper's room
in company with its fair occupant and Mr.
Gibbins, he begged with the most unaffected
politeness to be allowed to accept the latter
alternative.

'' Company, ma'am," he added in a graceful
apology, "confers a zest which even the costliest
viands can ill afford to lack. I would rather
dine at the humblest board with my equals, — for
I am but a poor man myself, — than surrounded

by solitary grandeur in the glittering palaces of
opulent nobility."

'* So prettily put," thought the simple old
lady to whom this grandiloquence was addressed ;
"quite free and open, and so gentlemanlike
with it all ! "

And then the repast to which they all three
sat down ! Just the same plain, cosy meal that
was served every evening in that room ; but it
tasted twice as good as usual owing to the conversation
of the new-comer, and lasted twice as
long too. Though he seemed to talk the whole
time, Mr. Rock managed to get his share of the
good things ; in fact he eat as much as the other
two put together, for he was able to bolt something
every now and then between his sentences,
while his hearers' mouths remained empty as
well as open through the greater part of his
thrilling series of autobiographical sketches.

Mrs. Marchpane's curiosity regarding the
private affairs of great people above her was no
less keen than that of many other good folks in
her station. It may have been a weakness ; but it
was at any rate amiable and disinterested. No
one — not even Gibbins in his most jaundiced
moments — would have dreamed of calling the
simple woman a snob ; — or rather, Gibbins might
have done so, for he was completely ignorant
what the word meant, and the proportion of such

words to the rest of his vocabulary was certainly
not inconsiderable. Fortunately there are numbers
of men and women who strongly resemble
the housekeeper of Oakleigh in the genuine concern
they feel for matters too high to disturb
them at all seriously — matters chronicled with
stern bareness of detail in ' Fashionable Intelligence
' columns. They are troubled by no desire
to ape the performances of a class distinct from
themselves, — a temptation reserved almost exclusively
for the intermediate group in the social
system, and having nothing to do with this
unpretentious set of people. Nor will we blame
them — we who are more sophisticated, and know-how
to repress the wonder we really feel, — for
their harmless delight in the Court news, their
accurate acquaintance with the Christian names
in full of each member of the royal family, and
their childlike fondness for shows, even to the
village wedding or funeral ; for all these things
have a significance of their own, and, perhaps,
after all, are quite good enough for ordinary flesh
and blood.

Hiram's personal recollections growing more
remarkable as the victuals before him disappeared,
Mrs. Marchpane was constrained to lay
down her knife and fork and take long breaths at
more frequent intervals, so that when the men
retired to Gibbins' quarters for a smoke she

began to feel that her mental repletion had been
attained at considerable expense to her physical
needs.

Sakes alive ! " she exclaimed to Ehoda Dan-drum,
" how hungry all this talking do make
one. Such an evening as we've had here ; I
don't remember the like of it these twenty year."

Alone with the taciturn Joshua Mr. Rock proceeded
to bait his hook somewhat differently.
He was not quite certain of the bailiff, and sat
silently puffing in the hope that his phlegmatic
host would disclose himself in time. It was
pain and grief to him to restrain his rattling
tongue, but his wary self-denial triumphed in the
end, and restored him once more to his element.

The habit of spending the greater part of his
evenings alone was answerable for a way the
bailiff had of closing his eyes when he sat down
before the fire, and this again produced, if not
slumber, at least strange absence of mind, and
oblivion of external circumstances. Thus it was
that at the end of half an hour, during which no
word had fallen from his guest, he forgot the
exceptional nature of the occasion, and was betrayed
into remarking, with the pipe-stem between
bis teeth, " Well, she likes a laugh, and she's had
it to-night, no mistake."

Mr. Rock still saying nothing, Joshua fell
deeper into the snare, and went on sternly : —

*' Now what I says is ' laugh to-day and you'll
cry tomorrow ; whereas life '11 go round as
smooth as clockwork if so be as you keeps serous
and takes it quiet and respectable.' Look at me ;
'ere lev I bin lying' in the lap o' luxury, as they
say, ever such a time. I sits here in comfort
when I'm tired with going' about the place all
day, no anxieties to agitate, no adversity to
shake me up, inwardly or otherwise. Why ain't
things difF'rent, why am I better off nor most

men {

Because you've got a head on your shoulders,
sir," interposed a bland voice at his elbow ; " because
you stick to business, and have no time to
waste over nonsense ; because it's mighty easy to
play the fool, but to become wise is a different
matter. No, sir ; wisdom's no joke, don't you
believe it," and the speaker nodded and frowned
impressively.

Mr. Gibbins' orbs were extended to their
utmost by this time. To hear his thoughts read
for him at his own hearth by another person, and
that person a stranger, was a novel experience
for him. Had the sentiments of this amiable
bookseller been less in accordance with his own,
he would probably have held his tongue from
that moment till bed-time. As it was, however,
he instantly detected a warm sympathy between
this man and himself, and hailed the discovery

with all the eagerness of which he was capable.
It was all clone in a flash. Like the two lonsf-
separated brothers of familiar domestic tragedy
they had rushed into each other's arms (metaphorically
speaking) after an identification too
sudden to be altos-ether convincing and an
intimacy of the conjuror's hat description sprang
up between them in a moment.

The were thought as was a train' to find its
way out o' my 'eat, sir," exclaimed the Stoic of
Oakleio;h, turning his chair so as to face him of
Copesbury. " An' so you really think there's
something in it yourself ? I don't know as I've
ever before found anybody to 'gree with me.
Quite a prodigy I calls it."

You surprise me, sir," observed Mr. Rock.
The opinions you have expressed have been
held in common by every statesman, philosopher,
and divine from the days of Confucius and
Ptolemy the Great to the present time."

Only think o' that now," said Joshua, looking
slowly round the room as if in expectation
of applause ; " and so Confused and 'tother chap
thought the same as I do, eh ? "

They did that, sir ; it was their own invention.
When they died it descended to their
successors, and in a manner, I may say, their
mantle has fallen upon us."

This new and striking idea did not penetrate

VOL. I. P

to the seat of Mr. Gibbins' intellect all at once.
He sat rubbing his chin for some minutes, the
usual sign with him of deep cogitation.

No, you don't mean it '{ " he said at last ;
but the tone in which the query was put certainly
did not imply any doubt. '' Ain't that jest
wonderful ? Fancy me a-livin' all alone here,
and reading' nothing, unless it might be one o'
these 'ere auction, bills 'bout sales o' stock, — me
to know as much as they fellers, who I don't
know as I ever heard on afore. That 'ere's
what the parson 'ud call inspiration, I repose.
Well, I know what's the matter with me now,
which is modern I did. This inspiration's a rare
good thing, mister ; as good as a dram o' corpulent
regular warming' to the vitals."

Glad to have been the humble instrument
of introducing you to it, sir. An auspicious
moment, this, sir. Allow me to propose — in a
figurative sense — your health ; as the legitimate
descendant of Confucius and the Polemics —
every one of 'em, without an exception — Mr.
Gibbins, your health." Hiram smacked his
lips, and murmured again '' in a figurative sense,
of course."

Sir," replied his flattered host, " I looks
towards you. Wait a bit." He rose from his
chair, and unlocking a cupboard, produced two
tumblers and a black bottle. Placing these,

together with a jug of water, on the table, he
resumed his seat with the remark, " Now then,
let's have all that over again, and we'll do it
proper this time."

Mr. Rock after some protestation consenting
to repeat his benevolent aspirations on behalf
of his new friend's permanent well-being, minus
the qualifying expression, each gentleman did
his best to prevent the ceremony from remaining
a mere empty form, and the tumblers were
speedily reduced to that condition instead. The
bookseller used his opportunity to discover as
much as possible about the state of Arnold's
household, the number of his servants, and
where they slept. In this quest he was so
successful that when he retired for the night
it was with the information that the wing in
which he was to sleep contained at present no
other occupant, and communicated through a
door at the end of the passage with an equally
deserted floor of bed-rooms, — the principal ones,
only used by the master of the house and his
friends.

A cheerful fire was blazing on the hearth
when he reached his room, for which, as he
reflected with some satisfaction, the favourable
opinion he had won from Mrs. Marchpane was
doubtless responsible. Probably it was the fire
which kept him awake for the next two hours,

P 2

for at the end of that time lie got off the bed
on the outside of which he had been lying,
cautiously opened the door, and listened attentively
for any sound to indicate that some one
besides himself was awake and stirring. Then
he returned, took a dark lantern out of his bag,
lit it, and stole noiselessly out.

Next morning: Mr. Rock ensconced himself
in the library, and commenced operations.
About mid-day his assistant, an individual of
seedy appearance, came over from Copesbury,
it being impossible, — so his master told Mrs.
Marchpane, — for anyone to undertake the work
alone. " I quite forgot," he went on, '' to
mention this in my letter to Mr. Robur ; so I've
made arrangements for putting him up at the
inn. Perhaps it's the best way on the whole ;
for, to tell you the truth, he's not much accustomed
to good company, and it's better he
should have his meals there." Finally it was
agreed that lunch should be served to the pair of
workers in the library in order that they might
be hindered as little as possible ; the assistant
to come each morning after breakfast and leave

o

at nightfall.

Well," said Edwards, as soon as there was
no danger of being overheard, " what's your
report ? I suppose you can say how much is to
be got out of this business by now ? "

What a hurry you're in," exclaimed the
elder treasure - seeker with virtuous surprise.
"There's plenty of time to look about, and we
must be careful, you know. Besides, the catalogue
must be made out, and we may as well
begin upon that at once. First I must have a
list of all the books ; will you read out their
titles for me to cock down, or shall it be the
other way about ? "

Rot the catalogue," said the other fiercely.
Don't trifle with me, man ; I can see you've
found something out. What is it ? " Then
suddenly dropping the bully, and assuming a
wheedling tone, he added : " Can't you see, my
dear fellow, how awful it is to be tantalised like
this?"

*your confounded temper will be the ruin
of us if you don't look out, Edwards," said Mr.
Rock evasively. " But you're right about my
having found something out, and I'll tell you
what it is ; there's nothing for us to take in the
house ; it was a bad shot on our part."

Yes, my friend," he continued after a pause,
during which the advertising agent's pale face
had turned paler still with rage and disappointment
; '' you've taken your little holiday all for
nothing, and though you look as if you required
a change, this isn't the cheerfulness part of the
country to choose for that purpose at this time

of year. Why don't you follow young Eobur's
example, and go down to stay with him at
Burnport instead of making yourself at home
here in his absence ? Suppose he were to turnup
here suddenly : you might find it rather
difficult to account for yourself," and the notion
set its originator off into a prolonged and exasperating
chuckle. While this lasted his comrade
sat with clenched fists expressive of a
desire to hasten the restoration of Mr. Rock's
equanimity by the strongest physical iudu cements.
Fortunately, however, for that gentleman's
physiognomy he was sufficiently recovered,
by the time Edwards' wrath reached boiling-point,
to take up again the thread of his discourse.
Discarding his bantering tone, he proceeded.

"Last nif^ht I thought it would be as well
to reconnoitre a bit, you see. There are very
few servants in the house, and they don't sleep
near the best rooms ; moreover, everybody turns
in at ten. Well, I waited till it was past twelve,
and then I slipped on a pair of list slippers,
took my bull's-eye, and went to see what I
could see. I assure you the careless way in
which the doors were left unlocked surprised
even me. Some few, to be sure, had been
locked ; but the keys had actually been left
sticking in them outside. These people don't
deserve to have a single valuable left in their

possession. Valuables ought to belong only to
people who know how to look after them. That
was what I thought as I looked at all the doors
in the gallery just through the passage where
the idiots have put me to sleep. When I'd
tried them all, and found there wasn't one more
secure than the others, I took each of the rooms
singly ; and may I never crack another thing,
if there was a single object to be met with that
would serve our purpose. Nothing but old
timber, my boy ; chairs, tables, wardrobes, foresters,
and such. It's the gloominess sell
I've ever had to swallow. One would have
supposed that a place like this, with all its
pretensions, would have held something worth
looking at, now ; if not strong boxes or safes,
at least a jewel-case and a plate-chest or so.
Nothing of the sort. The reason they don't
lock "up the doors is because there's nothing
worth having inside 'em to lock up."

Edwards smiled incredulously at the manner
of this conclusion.

"Pshaw!" he said. "Is that all? You've
frightened me for nothing, then. Did you
really expect to find something in a strange
house by a hurried search at midnight when
you were in a funk of being; disturbed ? "

"At any rate you seemed to think I should,"
put in Rock rather morosely.

''I! — well, I may have thought you wouhl
have been up to some deeper game than that
all these hours you've been in the house."

'•' What was I to do except prowl about, and
keep my eyes open, I should like to know ? "

'' Anyhow, you haven't prowled enough, that's
evident. You don't take to this business as
kindly as you ought, my good fellow. A long
course of shop-keeping and cheating on a small
scale has demoralised you, and you've positively
unfitted yourself for large transactions. As
you seem so fond of prowling you may just
prowl again to-night ; only carry your investigations
a little closer, my respectable tradesman
; observe the lie of things downstairs, look
into cupboards and closets when you get the
chance, and see if you can't find some door i

after all which it will require our legitimate f

weapons to open. I've got all my ' seamen ' .■;

ready for the job, and don't want to let 'em rust \

for want of practice either. Now for this infernal
catalogue."

It was a beautiful illustration for the moralist
of the venerable saw "business first, pleasure k

afterwards " to see this exemplary pair settle I

down there and then to the distasteful occupation
before them, each encouraging the other, and
rousing his chivalrous emulation to the needful
pitch for performing the irksome duty which

had been so unselfishly incurred. Thus easily
does union achieve its objects, — two fools hand
in hand accomplishing what one wise man fails
to do. And yet, trite as the remark must have
been to our great-grandmothers, people are not
ashamed to go on declaring that friendship is
an end in itself, and not merely a means !
Don't you see, you irreconcilable, that union
can be of no use unless it exists for a purpose ?
Union is proverbially strength ; (how refreshing
to have a text at hand for the overthrow of an
adversary !) Now how could we possibly have
ascertained that without an object to which the
strength could be applied ? But, in order to
show that this view of the question is not a
wilfully limited one, no single detached aspect
of a particular phase or kind of union, let us
take another case, — that of marriage. Here, it
is said, there should be no suspicion of any
ulterior motive ; love is its own reward, and so
forth. Well, is it ? A knowledge of human
nature would seem opposed to this comfortable
belief. Great authorities have told us that most
out of the few unions formed upon the sole basis
of mutual affection fall short of expectation, and
come openly to grief. Even the seeming exceptions
are in all likelihood nothing of the sort, only
in them the contracted parties manage somehow
to consume their grief and disappointment

unnoticed. Then again, look at the stock
analogy between nations and individuals : do
we see states engaging in alliances or treaties
dictated by the casual impulse of fancy and
sentiment ? Quite the contrary ; such unions
are the fruit of some grave necessity for offensive
or defensive combination. The same rule obtains
throughout nature, and the very vermin
under our feet unite for the purpose of extending
their power of ministering to their own comfort.
Other feelings are probably altogether absent in
their cases, though they exist, and cannot be
overlooked, in mankind. But instead of exaggerating
their importance, as we are so lamentably
prone to do, let them step down from the
pedestals which they have usurped, and find
their proper level in waiting upon the reason.
Friendship is nothing if it is not partnership to
begin with ; and it is impossible for that man
to be successful or happy who does not habitually
regulate his actions by the standard of strict
commercial principles. Familiar as this sound
maxim must be to thorough men of businesslike
Messrs. Edwards and Kock, it is so far
from enjoying universal acceptation among the
careless and unthrifty majority that a statement
in this place of the impregnable position maintained
by those gentlemen seems necessary in
order to do away, once for all, with any colourable

pretext for a somewhat delicate misunderstanding
which their conduct may or may not
afford.

How deeply their hearts were in their work
might have been guessed from the appearance of
the two men when they met the next morning.
Mr. Rock's blinking eyes and frequent yawns
betokened a restless night, while the look of
strained anticipation on his friend's interesting
countenance was scarcely less expressive.

What luck ? " were the first words that almost
broke from Edwards in the excitement of this
critical moment. Indeed, it was clear that,
should the second search prove as unfruitful as
the first, they must consider themselves the
victims of a most unfortunate speculation.

I don't know," growled the indefatigable
Hiram in answer to his question ; " anyhow it's
not as bad as it might be, and that's all I can say
for it."

Curse your long-winded palaver ; can't you
tell me the whole thing straight out instead of
putting me off with all this humbug ? " and the
ao'ent fluno- himself into a chair with a liberal and
comprehensive volley of oaths.

His colleague eyed him with scornful pity, and
allowed a considerable interval to elapse before he
condescended to reply. At length, however, finding
that Edwards continued to sulk obstinately,

he cleared his throat, and proceeded to administer
a sharp rebuke to his refractory ally.

"You're enough to make a man turn round
and say you may manage the business by yourself,"
he continued, '' and I'd do it too, if I didn't
know it was my fate to be mixed up with you
for good, letting alone what is due to the honour
of a — ahem — gentleman. I should recommend
you to be a little more cautious in future, Mr.
Edwards, unless you want to take every one in
the house into our confidence. When you interrupted
me I was about to observe that I made a
very complete tour of inspection last night, and
took my time over examining everything that
looked the least suspicious. Well, the result is
that there's only one wardrobe of which I haven't
seen the inside, and which may contain something
better than the rubbish in all the others. It
stands in a recess by the head of the bed in
Eobur's own room, and I didn't notice it before.
Either you or I will have to work that article of
furniture to-night, as they expect us to clear outby
tomorrow afternoon. It looks as if it would
want forcing, as I can't lay my hand on the key,
and wasted half an hour in trying to pick the
lock. Perhaps you'll say I haven't done enough
because the coals in the cellar aren't diamonds, as
they ought to be."

This speech, though its tone was not conciliatory,

had a marvellously soothing effect upon its
auditor. He even went so far as to grasp his
partner's hand in token of apology before replying
in quite a sprightly manner, — " Let's go on with
those books for a bit ; that will give me time to
cipher out a plan of attack on the fortress. I
shall get my expenses paid, after all," and he
executed a plausible imitation of a laugh.

"By the bye," said Rock, turning round with
some books in his hand from the shelf where he
was engaged, " false delicacy being out of the
question between us, you'll forgive my mentioning*
that your amiable exterior has failed to produce
a good opinion of you among the servants."

"Damn the servants," snarled the other,
what's that got to do with us ? "

*' Only this," returned the bookseller dryly,
that their distrust of you will extend to me
directly any thing's missed, and then it won't be
easy to put them off the scent. Whatever we do,
we must take care it won't be found out while
wee are here."

*' Umph," ejaculated Edwards, " how did you
discover they suspected me ? "

An accident, dear boy, a fortunate accident ;
I overheard Gibbins — that's the chap that comes
in sometimes to see how we're getting on — talking
to the housekeeper about you."

A long pause ensued, during which the agent

brooded over this last piece of information. At
length he said in a low voice, " Can you make a
plan of that room, giving its position on the floor,
and the place in it occupied by the wardrobe '? "

I shouldn't think much of myself if I couldn't,"
was the satisfactory rejoinder ; and sitting down
to the table Mr. Rock was able in a very few
minutes to convey an accurate notion of the
requisite details in black and white.

That's the citadel," said he, when he had finished
; "I've marked it with a cross to distinguish
it from the suburbs, as one might call all the rest.
The best entrance for a stranger with an inquiring
turn of mind, who was too modest to go to the
front door and disturb the inmates, would be
through this window, which is in the passage
just outside my room," and he indicated it with
his pen.

There are no bars or shutters, and though it's
about a dozen feet from the ground, there's a
delightful water-pipe running down the wall from
the roof which would be as good as a ladder to
said stranger, if nimble. Then there's a shrubbery
below to catch him if he falls, and if he was
to wear gloves he couldn't even scratch his hands.
Once inside, the best route is along this dotted
line, and," he added, handing the paper to
Edwards, " the stranger may be left to his own
devices."

Now, then' said that gentleman, buttoning
his coat over the document, "I'll tell you how we
can do this thing, and disarm suspicion at one
blow. When I get back to the inn to-night I
shall olive out I'm ofoinoj over to see a friend at
Burfield, and shan't be back before eleven, perhaps
not till later. Very well, I shall really go
there to pass the time, and it won t be a bad
thing to offer to take a message for the landlord.
Everything will be snug here by half-past ten,
and with your list slippers it won't make any
difference even if they are not all asleep. Anyhow,
no one will be on the floor in question except
you and me."

Kock nodded encouragingly, and he went on.
Well, I can manage the whole business comfortably
in half an hour, and shall get back to
the inn, — say by a quarter-past eleven. At
twelve o'clock, when I am safe to be in bed and
asleep, you must make a racket, and break a pane
of glass in the window which I shall leave open ;
only you must take care that the broken glass
falls inside on to the carpet, to give it the appearance
of having been done by a burglar in forcing
his way in, you see. By the way, you haven't got
a revolver with you, I suppose ? "

*' No," replied his smiling comrade ; " I've had
an objection to fire-arms ever since "

"Never mind, then," interrupted the other.

'' I'll leave mine at your door on my return from
the room, and you must fire one of the chambers
through the open window. We don't want to do
more than alarm the servants, so I wouldn't fire
more than one ; it will be quite enough to make
them look upon you as their preserver."

Mr. Rock raised his hands in a kind of ecstatic
benediction. " Creative genius, creative genius,"
he sighed, " how beautiful you are ! In list
slippers," he continued, returning to the practical
and commonplace after a moment's rapturous
contemplation, " in list slippers your footsteps
can't be traced, no matter how soft the soil maybe
here and there, and we can burn them afterwards.
Only take care they are not spotted at
the inn, dear boy ; take great care they are not
spotted at the inn."

That evening the bookseller excelled himself.
His flow of sparkling anecdote moved Mrs.
]\Iarchpane to tears of laughter, and some of
his sallies of wit even communicated a risible
influence to the waistcoat of the austere Gibbins
himself.

We shall sleep well after this," said the
housekeeper when the gentlemen rose to retire,
and the bailiff" gaped sympathetically.

Mr. Rock had to thank his excellent strategy
that the servants were sent to bed earlier than
usual, and the lights in the upper windows

showed that the house would be soon hushed in
slumber when he left Joshua preparing to turn
in, and reached his own door. Cautiously unfastening
the window-catch in the passage, he
raised the lower sash about an inch that it might
open easily from outside, and softly drew up the
blind half way. Then he entered his room, and
closed the door without quite fastening it.

Lucky he's got a coat with those convenient
inside pockets," he meditated, " or some one might
have noticed the slippers when he took them away.
What with them, a clothes-brush, lantern, and
jemmies, he'll have enough to carry. What a
clever chap he is, too ; fancy his thinking of a
mask ! I can scarcely believe his being up to
such dodges, if this is his first attempt at the
particular style of thing, as he says."

Left to himself Hiram was becoming sleepy.
Nature has no reverence for the diplomatist, and
demands her tribute even in his case. He had
been gradually lapsing into unconsciousness in a
chair in front of the fire, when he shook himself
together with a start, and began to face the fact
that he was about to be baulked of another goodnight's
rest.

The thing ought to be done realistically," he
mused ; " I must unease, and go to bed, though
the devil knows how I'm to stay awake if I do."
His eyelids were so heavy when he had put out

VOL. I. Q

the candle, and lay back on the pillow, that he
felt as if nothing short of a couple of wedges
could keep them open. Alternately dozing and
listening, he gradually began to give more time
to the former and less to the latter operation,
till a sudden violent reveille from his own nose
caused him to spring up in a panic, and light a
match to look at the time. Reassured by the
hands of his watch, which stood close upon
eleven, that the ominous sound had at any
rate no connexion with the feathered ' trumpet
to the morn,' he crept to the door, and was
just in time to see something like a hand disappear
round the corner of the window-sill
outside. Hurriedly noticing that the lower part
of the window itself stood open wide enough
to admit a man's body, he concluded that
Edwards had accomplished his mission in safety.
This opinion was shortly confirmed by the sight
of the revolver on the carpet near his feet ;
having made himself master of which agreeable
bed-fellow, and finding that it was loaded in
every chamber, he got once more between the
sheets. This time, however, the interval did
not pass so quickly. He was thoroughly roused,
and though he closed his eyes, his consciousness
of any passing sound, or tremor seemed heightened
rather than diminished by so doing.

*' How I wish I could have really put the

I

contents of that little persuader into this body ashe
got through the window," he thought, as he
tossed about waiting for twelve o'clock to come ;
and so I would have, if the thing had been
possible without damaging myself just as much.
I can't help myself now that he has come to
life again to spite me."

He maundered on about his friend's foibles,
and his own hard position, till a few minutes
past midnight. Then he rose, lit his candle, put
on a pair of shoes and an overcoat, and leaning
out of the window, smashed in a pane in the
right place with his elbow as noiselessly as
possible. After pausing to remove the pieces of
glass from his sleeve, and satisfying himself that
no one had been disturbed as yet, he proceeded to
bang his door energetically a few times, and
rushed up and down the passage shouting withall
his might. This proceeding was not long in
rousing the desired commotion. The sound of
footsteps was already upon the stairs when he
fired the pistol through the open sash, and sank
back in a well-feigned paralysis of terror against
an angle of the wall. In this attitude he was
discovered by Mr. Gibbins, who, with a light in
one hand and a cudgel in the other, was advancing
gingerly towards the scene of the disturbance.
So startled was he upon suddenly turning
the corner to find his brother philosopher in

Q 2

what appeared to be a truly woful predicament
that the candlestick fell from his grasp with
a crash, thereby narrowly escaping a greater
tragedy than the matter in hand, — a holocaust,
namely, in which the hero of the hour might
have played the chief, if an unwilling, part. As
it was, a shriek arose from Mrs. Marchpane's
contingent at the other end of the passage, in
spite of Hiram's prompt extinction of the cause
of danger by covering it with the door-mat.

This little incident rather spoiled his enjoyment
of the dramatic situation, but he nevertheless
persevered nobly, and pointing to the
window gasped, " He got out there ; I was too
late, and missed him. Eun round the front
way, man, and you may find him even now," he
added, addressing the bailiff.

Gibbins had his own view of the case, however,
and suggested that they should see first
what harm the burglar had done, and also look
about for anything he might have dropped when
Mr. Rock surprised him.

Mrs. Marchpane, fearful of something happening
to Joshua, seconded his proposal, and observed
that" the door in the passage had been
opened, though she remembered to have shut it
before she went to bed.

*' Then," remarked Gibbins, assuming a truculent
demeanour, ^' rest upon me ; " and ably

supported by the gallant bookseller he marched
at the head of the little party towards Arnold's
room. The door stood open, and in they all
walked, pale but resolute. The housekeeper was
the first to see what was wrong.

Why it's master's wardrobe the thief's been
at," said she, pushing past the others ; "he
always keeps the key on his bunch, and took it
away with him to Burnport."

While Mrs. Marchpane was staring ruefully
at the ransacked wardrobe, and Gibbins was
exploring under the bed, something in a dark
corner attracted Mr. Rock's attention. It was
a jewel-case which had evidently been forced
open and rifled of its contents. The tray was
lying at a little distance ; Edwards must have
filled his pockets, and then flung the box aside
as a useless encumbrance.

Hullo, what's this ? " said Hiram, taking it
all in at a glance ; and he stepped forward topick
up the case.

That ? " said Mrs. Marchpane, when it had
been brought to the light ; " why, it's my poor
mistress's old jewel-case that was too small to
hold all her things, so that she had another one
made for them specially, and it's at the bank.
If that's what the rogue has been after, he's had
all his trouble for nothing, Mr. Rock. Well, this
is enough to amuse a body, isn't it ? "

CHAPTER XT.

MEN OF HONOUR.

There be that can pace the cards, and yet cannot play well."

Bacon.

Morning dawned at Oakleigh upon an unsettled
household. Tempers were ruffled by the unusual
disorganisation ; no one seemed inclined for work,
and there was quite a smart epidemic of colds in
the head. Breakfast was not ready at the usual
hour ; so the male portion of the garrison went
out to glean some information of the precise
nature of the nocturnal assault. Making a careful
detour of the house, nothing worthy of notice
met their gaze till they arrived below the window
through which the shot had been fired. The
shrubbery at that point exhibited signs of having
been disturbed, a few twigs were broken, and
the soil had a trampled appearance, though no
clear impression of a boot was to be found anywhere,
a fact at which Mr. Rock expressed
considerable surprise.

The fellow must have walked away on his
head," he said at last, when a searching scrutiny
had more than ever cod firmed his admiration of
his confederate's artistic finish; "plenty to do
here for the Burfield police, eh, Mr. Gibbins '? "

The bailiff nodded laconically. 'not as I
can ax em to do anything without the master's
orders," he grumbled. " I repose I must write
and tell him about this here bit o' work. Fancy
a chap a-creepin' in here, and given' us all this
sight o' trouble for jest nothing but a broken
winder. Powerful mean and sneaking I calls
it."

The full unpleasantness of the situation had
only dawned upon Joshua with the conviction
just arrived at that he would have to write a
letter. Not till that moment had the audacity
of this wanton interference with the rights of
property and the repose of private citizens
seemed to him so hideous a piece of sacrilege.
That he, a quiet and irreproachable individual,
should be at the mercy of every vagabond who
chose to put him to the inconvenience of becoming
a special correspondent was an injury
not to be thought of with any degree of
calmness.

You don't mean to say you would waste a
couple of days before you do anything ! " exclaimed
Mr. Rock ; " why, it's a sin and a shame

to wait a minute longer, if you can help it.
Such delay is scandalous, sir, quite scandalous
in my opinion."

1 essay your opinion may be with a good
deal in a gen'ral way, sir," responded Gibbins,
not sorry for an opportunity of displaying some
of his spleen, " but pYaps you'll believe me when
I say as I ain't used to no contradiction from
outsiders, Mr. Rock. Does the cares o' this house
rest upon you, or does they rest upon me, sir ?
You seems wonderful interested in us for a
stranger, to be sure."

No more than any other impartial observer
would do in my place, sir," said the virtuous
bookseller, with noble self-effacement. " No doubt
you are quite right, Mr. Gibbins ; but won't you
be persuaded to send a telegram instead of a
letter?"

What ! and let the folks at the post-office
know all about it ? "

'' But won't they know anyhow ? Gossip,
my dear sir, will soon spread the news, unless
Oakleigh is different from every other place in
the world."

But Gibbins, though he was beginning to regain
his wonted placidity, remained obdurate.

"Well, I ain't the one to set it a-goin'," he
remarked. " You see, you want to do too much.
You've shot off your gun, now it's my turn to

post my letter. We'll have breakfast must, though ;
and don't you say nothing to her

It has been hinted more than once that
Mr. Rock's forte was diplomacy, — which is the
more remarkable because he never displayed
any acquaintance with French, and therefore
could have possessed none. For there is a
natural connexion between private and political
intrigue and every other kind of subtlety subservient
to it. Now the real importance of
foreign languages consists in the fact — as yet
only comprehended by diplomatists — that each
is the appropriate medium for expressing different
sentiments. There is a peculiar fitness
in the use of German as a vehicle for metaphysics,
Spanish for social courtesies, Italian for
the softer emotions, Latin for academic themes
and moral disquisitions. As to English, it is
such a mongrel affair that it can hardly be said
to present any particularly striking characteristic
of its own, but rather adapts itself automatically
to the disposition of the individual user. Perhaps,
however, its gradual Americanisation will
end in giving it a decided advantage for the
discussion of commercial transactions, and establish
its pre-eminence as a record of the vicissitudes
of buying and selling. In Coleridge's remark
about the very phrases of the French language
being so composed that it can scarcely be spoken

without lying, a profound philosophical explanation
is contained of the persistent survival of
that tongue in the mouths of courtiers and
ambassadors. Whatever modes of expressing
themselves so as to conceal their real feelings
have been devised by other civilised nations,
the French are certain to excel them in this
respect ; and no better illustration of the rule
could be furnished than its exception in the
case of Hiram Kock. His British origin is
only explicable on the ground that his talent
for scheming was wholly subordinate to his
sensus as a man of business ; it mio^ht even
be maintained, without intending injury to our
neighbours' feelings, that France could not have
produced such a man.

The rough draft of the catalogue had still
to be completed, and Mr. Rock hurried over
his ' matutinal muffin ' in order to join his
assistant in the library. He was surprised to
find Edwards more resigned than he had anticipated.
Great reverses must be sustained with
fortitude or they would be too much for flesh
and blood to bear. The luxury of worry is
reserved for comparatively trivial and endurable
misfortunes. Each gave the other his account
of what had occurred without comment, and the
melancholy aspect of the situation was unrelieved
by the smallest approach to badinage on Hiram's

part. Then they set to work at once as the best
means of forcrettinor their sorrows, labouring; in a
hopeless, mechanical way.

How noiselessly does Fate spin her invisible
entanglements; her sternest exigencies being
often but trifles in their origin, gossamer meshes
which time transmutes into bonds of adamant.
Edwards on the ladder was already reading out
the titles of the books in the last shelf, while his
companion wrote them down on a slip of paper,
which for greater convenience he had fixed to a
small piece of board by means of drawing-pins.
They had finished up the paper provided for
them, but had not thought it worth while to
ring for more as Edwards happened to have a
blank sheet in his pocket which was sufficient
for the purpose. As the bookseller took it he
noticed that it bore the printed address of the
newspaper office at which his friend was employed
; but neither of them thinking this to
be of any consequence, since the paper was to
be used simply for a private memorandum, he
had beofun to cover it with a list of names.

Heio-h-ho," sighed Edwards, *' this is the
last ; " and he drew out a heavy volume at the
end of the row.

A fine old bureau of black oak, half writing-table,
half book-case, was standing open close
by the ladder, and as he spoke the book slipped

from his grasp, and fell to the floor, striking the
movable flap of the bureau smartly on its way.
Edwards descended from his perch, picked it up,
and was about to replace it when he uttered a
sudden exclamation which brought Hiram out
of his easy-chair before the fire, and made him
enquire what was the matter.

Look," said the other, pointing to that part
of the bureau which would be covered when the
flap was closed, " don't you see anything ? "

Mr. Rock hastily approaching, pulled his
spectacles down over his nose, and peered into
the recess. A crack about a quarter of an inch
wide was visible between the hinges of the flap,
and evidently indicated a sliding panel moving
inwards to the back of the structure.

Capitally managed," said Hiram admiringly,
*' no one would have dreamed of a secret drawer
here, all the space seems accounted for without
it. The fellow who made this knew how to keep
a secret."

So saying he took a knife from his pocket,
and with the blade pushed back the panel,
though not without some difficulty from the
resistance of the spring by which it was worked.
There appeared to be no catch to hold it when
open ; so Rock fitted the piece of board containing
the last portion of the catalogue into the
aperture before probing the cavity below "Aha !

it's made sloping backwards," he cried ; *' that's
why we overlooked it, my boy. Hullo, what's
this ? " and he brought out a good-sized packet
of yellow papers tied with a faded ribbon ;
securities, or deeds of some sort, put here
and forgotten, eh ? "

Edwards snatched the bundle from him, and
untied the ribbon, his comrade watching him
eagerly with twitching fingers. The advertising
agent's face fell as he scanned one by one
the dusty documents before him.

Pah ! love-letters," he muttered, letting them
flutter down onto the carpet. " Are you sure
there's nothing more ? "

Mr. Rock was eno-as^ed on his knees in collecting
the papers, so his junior partner tried his
hand on the bureau, with the result of bringing
to light a small case of leather. Opening this
he discovered an antique ring, with a plain gold
guard of more modern make containing a band
of hair, in which two shades seemed to be evenly
blended.

Well, here's something at last," remarked
Hiram, " that ring's worth having, depend upon
it, and sure not to be missed for ever so long."

Nothing of the sort," said Edwards in a
disgusted tone, examining it attentively. " The
setting is half the value, and that would be
spotted anywhere ; look at these figures and

scrolls and enamel ; and then there's a motto
inside, Amor rex et lex!^

'' But then the stone's valuable, anyhow,"
pleaded Hiram ; " come, we must have that,
it's such a bios one."

o

'' I tell you it's no good," returned the other
angrily, " it's shaped like a heart, and would be
known anywhere ; I'm not going to be mixed
up with receivers of stolen goods for nothing,
I can tell you ; no more are you, if you've got
any sense in your head."

Safest not, I suppose," said Mr. Kock sadly,
but it does seem like ingratitude to Providence
to chuck this lovely thing away. Shut it up
again, my dear boy, before we're tempted to do
anything rash," and he himself set the example
by proceeding to tie up the letters again before
replacing them. Edwards said nothing ; apparently
his feelings were too much for him. He
had turned his back on his cautious confederate,
and it seemed inconsiderate to bother him just
at this moment of supreme aggravation. Rock
looked round for the ring-case ; it was on the
table. He seized it hastily — it would never do
to expose himself to the anguish of another
hopeless glimpse of its contents, — and uttering
a disconsolate groan dropped it with the bundle
into the cavity.

What was his surprise to see the piece of wood

which he had paced to keep the panel open fall
in after them, disturbed by the shock of their
descent, and the lid close with a click. But
surprise became horror when Edwards turned
at the sound, holding the identical ring and
guard in his hand which Rock was already
congratulating himself upon having placed
beyond the reach of his own and his partner's
cupidity.

The two men stared blankly at each other.
Both understood at once what had occurred,
and there was no disguising the awkwardness
of this new predicament.

Damnation ! " ejaculated Edwards thickly,
"you've done it now."

Don't give in yet ; we've opened it once,
let's try again," and Hiram began to jolt and
shake the bureau in every conceivable way in
the hope of inducing the friendly crack to reappear.
Their united efforts, however, had not
the slightest effect upon the panel, which remained
just as obstinately closed after they had dropped
books from the top of the ladder upon the flap
for a quarter of an hour as it was before. There
was scarcely a square inch in the surface of the
bureau which they did not rummage and tap to
equally little purpose, and in the end they were
forced to sic down when every expedient had
been exhausted, and acquiesce in the galling fact

that a jewel had been thrown on their hands,
which, however intrinsically valuable, was worse
than worthless to them ; while the most conclusive
evidence of their involuntary theft was
left in its place for the owner of the ring to use
at his discretion.

There was little outspoken recrimination
between the partners of the ruined firm ; whatever
they may have thought, they were too
well-bred to do more than silently reproach
themselves.

Why couldn't you have sat up to the table
to do your list, instead of fastening it to a
treacherous board ? " vainly enquired the senior s
outraged conscience.

Why did you let him have that stamped
paper ? " clamoured the junior's inward monitor.

But the presence of a great danger has often
an ennobling effect in the closer union of men's
sympathies with each other.

We have a common interest in keeping this
dark," said Edwards at last, breaking a somewhat
oppressive silence.

In this catastrophe we must stand by each
other like — Britons," was Rock's frank response.
It's enough to make one cut such irregular
pursuits, and throw one's tools down the nearest
well," he added.

An earnest consultation followed, in which all

the circumstances of the case were rigorously
sifted. It was highly probable from the lusty
state of the contents of the secret drawer that its
existence was unknown to the master of the
house. The bureau was to all appearances a
genuine heirloom, — none of your sham pieces of
patchwork which swarm plentifully everywhere,
and whose uniform tint of ashe has a curious
affinity with the stuff in upholsterers' paint-pots.
Might it not be — was it not, indeed, almost
certain — that some dead hand had placed the
ring and letters in their concealment, and that
now no living soul besides themselves held the
knowledge ? They wished they had paid more
attention to those letters ; it was clear that, if
any answer to this important question remained
above ground, it was to be found in the forgotten
records of which they had declined in their blind
impetuosity to avail themselves. Maddened by
the thought, they were half inclined to burst the
panel open, and replace the ring by force. But
this course proved on examination to be impossible
without at once attracting suspicion.
The stout oak was far too solid to be tampered
with, and was held in its place with the grip of
an iron vice. Without the proper implements,
and security from interruption, it was useless to
attempt to make a breach, even had it been safe
to do so on other grounds ; and Kock knew well

VOL. I. R

that the greatest precautions would be taken to
prevent a second nocturnal inroad.

The more they considered the matter the more
disastrous seemed the total which its elements
composed. Robur possessed a letter from Rock ;
even supposing it was lost or destroyed he would
recognise the writing on the list, should he ever
discover it. Sooner or later an accident would
reveal the secret of the bureau, as it had been
revealed that day. For the future both partners
felt that they could never know what it was to
be secure again. Edwards, too, was fatally implicated
by the address on the paper. What did
it matter if, as his friend assured him, nobody in
the house had heard his name ? There was the
clue which must trace him always at Robur's
disposal. He must throw up his situation at
the Taha office, and be run to earth some day in

spite of all.

We can't even offer to buy the concern," he

said moodily, with a kick at the bureau.

*' Certainly not, unless we want to cut our

own throats," responded the other. " He's not

so hard up that he wants to part with his

furniture, though there ain't anything worth

taking in the house."

You'll have to leave Copesbury and change

your name again ; I suppose you know that ? "
I'm not so sure about it, my boy. Suppose

this blooming panel does go and peach, how's he
to know there was anything in it besides those
letters ? "

No matter how he'll find out, there'll always
be the chance that he will, especially with your
damned list to help him."

Well, if you leave the Tuha, and I go away
from Copesbury, won't there be something funny
about our both disappearing simultaneously ? "

True, king ; we'd better toss up which is
to go."

Not a bit, and I'll tell you why. You can
do as you like, but I shall stay on at present, — ■
not because I couldn't do just as well elsewhere,
but because I'm safe to hear if young Robur
finds out about the ring soon enough to get
away, and drop my identity. Whenever I want
to know anything I can always get it out of old
Gibbins, the bailiff. He comes over to markets
at Copesbury, and I shall take precious good care
to keep up the connexion. What we want is a
confidential man to hang round here and watch
events, and he'll do well enough for the job,
with a little manao-inor till we can find some one
better. Why, the thing may never leak out in
our lifetime at all, and I'm not going to err on
the side of recklessness again, my boy, don't you
think it."

Hem, as long as you're careful you won't do

R 2

any harm, I take it," said Edwards in a musing
tone. " Plenty of things may happen," he continued
; 'the house may get burnt down, or
young Robur may die. This going about for
bis health, and doing nothing, don't look as if
his life was a particularly good one. I wonder
what he does at Burnport. It would be grand
if we could hit on someone who had a grudge
against him, and throw everything upon Us
shoulders. Anyhow, I mean to give them the
slip, so you can look out for yourself, so long as
we back each other up whenever there's occasion."

Hiram agreed effusively. He was not sorry
that his friend should keep out of the way, and
leave him as ignorant of his whereabouts as other
people. " He'll make a convenient scape-goat if
I should ever want one," he thought to himself.
What would become of diplomacy without mental
reservations ?

They had just time to make a fresh copy of
that portion of the list which had been lost,
before Gibbins came round to the door with the
chaise to convey them to Burfield. Many were
the compliments bestowed by Mrs. Marchpane
upon the elderly cavalier, who, as she said, '' had
risked his own life to save them all ; " and profuse
the acknowledgments of her hospitality
which greeted her in return.

As they turned the corner of the drive Rock

tried to stand up aud wave his hat to the housekeeper,
and narrowly escaped a bad spill from
the vehicle in consequence.

Sit down, man," said Joshua gruffly do
you want to frighten the 'loss, or break the
springs ? "

He do seem a nice old gentleman," remarked
Rhoda Antrum, as Mrs. Marchpane re-entered
the house somewhat regretfully.

** The hoary head is a crown of glory," quoted
the old lady in reply, settling her cap over her
own locks, with which the wind had trifled a
little rudely. " May you be able to say as
much for me, my girl, when my head is as white
as his."

Gibbins' urbanity was completely restored
under Mr. Rock's lubricating influence by the
time they reached the station.

'' I've sent that 'ere letter," he whispered, ashe
assisted the bookseller with his bag, " and
I've put in something about you that 'ud make
your mouth water."

'^ Have you though ? " said Hiram, much gratified
; " that was kind of you, Mr. Gibbins, and
I'm not the man to forget a kindness. No, sir.
But I'm afraid you've made more of my poor
efforts than they deserve ; I am, indeed." However,
he consented to be soothed upon this point
on condition that the bailiff paid him a visit if

he found time when at Copesbury, besides
promising to write if there was any news about
the burglar.

'' I'm naturally anxious to hear more about
the fellow I tried to catch for you," he said,
shaking Joshua's hand ; " besides, I know the
inspector at our police-station ; and might be
useful to you in case he could do anything."

Arrived at Co|)esbury, Edwards immediately
took his departure for London, carrying off the
wring with him " for safe keeping," as he jocularly
informed his friend.

You'll probably hear from me soon," he said
at parting ; " it will be easy to invent a safe way
of corresponding."

Kock professed himself quite satisfied with the
arrangement, only advising the other to get rid
of the knick-knack, for fear he might be tempted
to air it in public.

Trust me," replied that trustworthy individual
; " I might drop it into the Thames as I
go home to-night."

Mr. Kock's shutters at the Cope-house had
remained up since his departure for Oakleigh,
and his ' young man ' — very young indeed,
in fact, a boy — had been given a holiday during
the interval. The bookseller was otherwise unassisted
in the conduct of the establishment,
having no family to manage even his domestic

affairs. His mention of a son of his to Arnold
on the occasion of their first interview must not
however be considered to contradict the undoubted
fact that his childless condition had
never been anything else ; for it would be unfair
to judge so harshly of a man who merely adopts
the beautiful Positivist romance of investing his
bachelorhood with the halo of paternity. Coarse
souls, alas ! have been planted everywhere only
too thickly ; and it is possible that such refinements
may elude some comprehension. But
whose fault is that ? If the majority of oar
neighbours are groundlings, must we therefore
clip our soaring pinions to the general pattern ?

Upon the arrival of Hiram's body-servant the
next morning to remove the shutters and resume
his duties, which included every sort of menial
office except cooking, for his master took his
meals at a tavern hard by, he was greeted
with an unusual moral repast in the form of
a lecture upon the relations of employers and
employed. •'

'' Now, Thomas, while you're cleaning those
boots," said Mr. E,ock, throwing down a pair
on the shop floor, " you will do well to incline
your ear unto the precepts of age." Hereupon
he seated himself upon the staircase that led
upwards out of the shop, folded his arms,
and frowned majestically upon the astonished

youngster. " Thomas," he continued, observing
that his attendant hesitated, " proceed to apply
the blacking ; you can t afford to lose what wits
you've got. After a period of repose, Thomas,
work should be the pleasant er, pleasant as it
must be at all times to serve an indulgent patron.
You've had your fling, and come back prepared,
however satisfied you may be with your past
career, to do better in future."

*' Yessir, I wants to better myself in future,"
said Thomas, moistening his brush by a natural
and unaffected process.

His master eyed him severely for a moment,
and then went on.

'' Listen to one who has had some experience
of life outside Copesbury, Thomas. To speak
only of your present occupation, many are the
agreeable and instructive lessons that may be
drawn from the art of cleaning boots. Scraped
soles, and glossy upper leathers, are nothing to
the meaning and the poetry inside a boot,
whether on or off the foot. Why, you young
rascal, you ought to be paying me for the
advantage of contemplating these interesting
objects alone, not to mention the hundred other
things I allow you to handle freely, d'ye hear ?
Let us consider the operation from its commencement.
Having carefully dried the articles
in question, you must spread the blacking — the

best quality, mind — evenly over the whole
surface ; and take care that you mix it properly,
and don't drown the generous stuff with water.
Now just you remember that with all your work ;
begin at the right time in the morning, so as to
strike while the iron's hot, and spread your work
evenly all over the day. Don't you crowd it,
my young friend, — don't you rush for it with a
hop, skip, and jump, doing what you like, and
leaving what you don't care about. And then it
must be work that's worth having ; you mustn't
stop short after brushing a few cobwebs off the
roof, you must go on right through the house
down to the ground. No adulterating labour
with idleness ; no holding boots over the gas
because you haven't given yourself time to dry
them properly beforehand ; you're sure to be
found out, and directly the leather splits it splits
on you. No, Thomas ; do things on the square,
even down to the polish and style you put into
your work, and you won't regret it. There's
nothing prospers quite like honesty," and Mr.
Rock took a deliberate survey of the surrounding
shelves as if he half expected his eyes to rest upon
something that did nearly as well. '' Honesty is
a necessary quality in servants," he resumed ;
remember that, and you won't starve. As for
the masters, they've got to set you work, and see
you do it. But that's no business of yours ; so

all you've got to do is to take warning by what
I've said, or you'll never have a chance of bettering
yourself."

Upon Thomas evincing a disposition to put
a private and most unwarrantable construction
upon this concluding remark, a regard for his
personal security counselled immediate retirement,
and Hiram was left to deplore the degeneracy
of youth in a solitude undisturbed for
hours by a single customer. His mid-day bread
and cheese had been consumed, and he had come
back to his chair behind the counter, close to the
stove, when a shadow suddenly cut off the sunlight
which was streaming through the window,
and roused him from the doze of innocent
repletion.

Now, young gent, come in, if you're coming,"
muttered Hiram, annoyed by the vacillating
demeanour of the shadow's proprietor. The
*' young gent " slowly complying, the door
opened upon a lanky, overgrown figure somewhat
too fashionably clad, and surmounted by
so tall a parapet of collar that its wearer
would have found a chin an extremely awkward
encumbrance.

*' Want to see a book in your window," drawled
this person languidly.

"Yes, sir," said the bookseller with beaming
alacrity, "certainly, sir," and he shuffled round

the counter. " AYhich might it be of all these,
sir, which I may have the honour of presenting
to your notice, sir ? "

His customer, with a gratified blush, indicated
the book he wanted, and Mr. Rock reached it
down for him.

^' * A full and true account of the stirring adventures
of Captain Gawrey^ together with a faithful
narrative of his last moments upon the Scaffold.
London ; printed for John Smith at the Chopping -
Block in Fleet Street,' That's a work of rare
merit, sir ; I don't wonder at your taking an
interest in it. The gentleman I got that book
from brought it to me one day, and says he,
For God's sake, Mr. Rock, take it and rid me of
it ; I had the misfortune to read it once, and now
I can't sleep with it in the house.' ' Dear me,'
says I, taking up the book and looking at it,
just as you are doing now, sir ; ' what's the
matter with it ? ' * Well,' he says, and I give
you my honour his teeth chattered so he could
hardly get a word out, ' there's an accuracy of
description and a fidelity to detail about those
adventures that makes one feel as if one had
been through 'em all oneself; the thing's too
real, I can't stand it.' He didn't live Ions: after
he gave me the book, poor gentleman ; so you
might almost say it was responsible for his death.
But it's just the reading for a spirited young gent

like yourself, sir ; the taste for sermons, according
to my experience, comes later."

A bargain was soon struck, and Hiram enquired
to what address he might direct the
parcel.

F. Dalton, Esq., june., Beau Sejour, Burfield,"
was the reply.

I was close by there yesterday, sir," said the
bookseller, making a note of it; perhaps you
may know Mr. Robur, sir, who lives at Oakleigh ? "

"Rather, I should think I did; why, there's
been a robbery at his house."

Rock could not help giving a little start ; then
he said briskly, " True, I was staying in the
house myself at the time ; went over to catalogue
the books, you know ; but we couldn't
stop the thief. However, he didn't find anything
to take, they tell me ; so it's not so bad
as it might be. Nothing fresh happened, I
suppose, sir 1 "

Frank replied in the negative, and enquired if
his new friend was the hero of the pistol, about
whom he had heard from Gibbins.

Mr. Rock made the admission apologetically.
What a thing is notoriety," said he ; " I shall
see my name in the Copeshury Courier and Slug-wash
Sentinel next. And so you know Mr.
Robur, sir ? he has the reputation of being a
charming young gentleman, sir."

Frank grunted. " Has he ? Reputations ain't
always true, then," he muttered.

His customer's manifest dislike of Arnold did
not escape the wary Hiram. However, he
thought he would go on and make sure.

You surprise me, sir ; nothing could exceed
his affability through the little I have had to do
with him in a business way."

Tastes differ ; I'm not one of his friends."

A painful subject, sir, I see ; allow me to
ask your pardon ; the sweets of conversation
with one's betters sometimes lure one unawares
on to forbidden ground, as a great wit, whose
name I have forgotten, pithily has it." Then he
began to launch out into a tide of reminiscences
about criminals and detectives, till Frank thought
he had never before met such an enofao^ino^ companion.
He even took a chair when Rock offered
him one, and listened with all his ears. Suddenly
the bookseller broke off in the middle of an exciting
narrative about an escape from prison, and
said abruptly, " You smoke, sir ? " Frank drawing
a meerschaum from his pocket was implored
to load it and make himself comfortable.

'there's nothing like an atmosphere of tobacco-smoke
for improving the flavour of a story," said
Mr. Rock, " though I can't afford to indulge
myself that way as often as I should like."

Frank's conversion to democratic principles

was completed by this congenial sentiment.
Hitherto he had not been accustomed to meet the
advances of those whom he regarded as social inferiors
with anything like cordiality. But when
he was reluctantly compelled to depart in order
to keep an engagement with Armitage, he confessed
to himself that he had never known what
good company was until the moment when he
entered the shop kept by his entertainer. He
begged Hiram to procure for him the histories of
some of the personages from whose fascinating
careers the bookseller had extracted most of his
anecdotes that afternoon, and offered of his own
accord to make the Wodehouse his rendezvous as
often as he paid a visit to the town, which would
probably be about twice a week during Armytage's
period of residence, the latter having offered
to take him in hand as an experiment, much to
the elder Mr. Dalton's temporary relief. When
he reached home that evening he was able to
inform his family that the arrangement was
settled, and Grace was somewhat astonished to
find that he contemplated the idea of doing a
little reading under these fresh auspices with
wonderful equanimity. She would have been
still more surprised, perhaps, if he had said anything
about the literary friendship which he had
been so fortunate in forming.

CHAPTER Nil

JUST HIS LUCK.

'sto onr friend, the hours seemed moments; holy was he and
happy: the words from those sweetest lips came over him
like dew on thirsty grass ; all better feelings in his soul
seemed to whisper, It is good for us to be here." — Sartor
Beatus.

The two days following Arnold's call on the
Misses Blunsden passed without any occurrence
of an exciting nature. The uncomfortable character
of our hero's slumbers on that evening
made him resolve to once more indulge his
animal propensities and take exercise of a moderately
violent character, but he met with no
adventures. However, his temper suffered, because
his return to life on the ocean wave cut
him off from the sight of his charmer, and he
was in a very grumbling mood, as he dressed
himself for dinner on the Thursday evening.
He mislaid his collar stud, and found it comfortably
bestowed in the place where he had set
it with his own hands on a corner of the mantelpiece,
after pouring forth for his own gratification

a stream of abuse of the chambermaid for " putting
his things in order. Confound her ! why
on earth couldn't she let alone ? " The charge
was quite unfounded — the particular damsel to
whom Arnold's room was assigned was sufficiently
unorthodox to have a firm belief that some works
are works of supererogation. She never was
known, to have done those things she ought not
to have done, though her sins of omission were
countless.

When he found that his expressions of indignation
as directed against the maid were superfluous,
he turned his attention to the linen, and
used quite unjustifiable language about the
excellent laundress employed at his hotel ! Then
his tie wouldn't tie ; his boots wouldn't go on :
his coat was creased ; nothing, somehow, was
rio^ht this evening with our friend — and all for
no mortal reason, but that for the space of forty-eight
hours he had not been able to set eyes on
a girl to whom he had never spoken, and as far
as he could see was never likely to speak.

Alas for frail humanity ! Arnold was quite
aware that it was very wrong to lose control of
his temper ; he was conscious that his satisfaction
was diminished rather than increased by these
ebullitions ; there was no doubt in his mind that
the passionate principle was at present overriding
the rational in a very philosophic

manner ; but he wilfully and deliberately gave
way to unreasoning wrath, and started to make
his way to East Rise in a sadly sulky frame of
mind. He was even disposed to think disrespectfully
of the two good souls whom he had
found so unexpectedly entertaining two days
before.

They're all very well," he growled as he
sauntered up the ascent, " they're all very well,
no doubt, but it's a confounded bore having to
nuisance oneself with them. I wonder whether
they have got the niece Mrs. Dalton spoke of —
bound to be a stupid piece of millinery, if they
have, living with Miss Blunsden. That would
be worse than the two old ladies alone. Hang
it, it would be just my luck if they had a girl of
that kind staying with them."

It is a general trait of human nature that
every man firmly believes himself to be the
special object of the malevolence of Fortune.
Every unexpected or expected mischance or inconvenience
is hailed with the universal cry —
'' Just my luck."

Arnold arrived at his destination and was
shown up into the drawing-room. The Misses
Blunsden were seated there alone. They rose on
his entrance, and Miss Hilda greeted him with
effusion.

"We're so glad you've been able to come, Mr.

VOL, I. s

Eobiir ; , I assure you, we have been looking
forward so much to seeing more of you, for you
see we so seldom see young men here. Really,
there are so few gentlemen we know living in
Burnport, except some of the clergy of course :
and I'm sorry to say that the vicar of our own
parish is not at all a man we care to cultivate.
Won't you sit down ? It is so cold this evening
that one is quite glad to have a fire." And
Miss Hilda sank into a comfortable arm-chair ina
cosy corner.

Robur had shaken hands with Miss Joanna
during this address, and he now sat down, feeling
exceedingly stupid ; the only remark he could
think of was a vague corroboration of Miss
Blunsden's observations on the weather.

The handle of the door turned. " Dinner's
ready, please, ma'am," thought Arnold, preparing
to rise — but the expected words did not fall.
He turned his face towards the door and — his
heart gave a desperate jump as he recognised inglorious
apparel the divinity who had been the
unconscious object of his worship ever since he
tumbled overboard by the beach.

Ursula, dearest, this is Mr. Robur ; our
niece Miss Lorton, Mr. Robur."

Arnold felt horribly afraid that he was blushing
; certainly he was very hot. A thrill of
unadulterated bliss shot through him as he took

the firm soft hand the girl held out. " Oh, why
doesn't it end here?" he thought; " if I could
only go out like a candle, or turn into an eternal
memory of this moment ! Life will never be
worth living after this." Outwardly, he was an
ordinary young man saying a formal " how do
you do." Under his dress-clothes the blood was
reeling[ through his veins in more than Bacchic riot,
as long as Miss Lorton's hand remained in his.

Doubtless it would be becoming to give some
description of Ursula's attire, for the benefit of
the ladies. But that is beyond the power of man.
It was only to Arnold's love-deluded eyes that
there was anything peculiarly splendid about the
costume, which would have attracted no attention
of itself, being of a very simple character.
Nevertheless, Arnold fancied that if it were possible
the wearer was now even more bewitching than
in the plain black she wore out of doors. But
then he was now face to face with his enchantress,
and her graces were more palpably apparent
than when she was taking her walks abroad, and
only came into view for a few brief moments.

Dinner's ready, please, ma'am." The summons
really came this time, and Arnold, as in
duty bound, presented his arm to Miss Blunsden,
and the party descended to the dining-room.

Our hero's spirits had returned with a rush.
He felt that his chambermaid's shortcomings

o
S 2

were excusable, and that his charges against his
laundress were unjust. Had his worst enemy
entered the room, he would have greeted him
cheerfully, and looked upon him as a dear friend.
Had any one done him a mortal injury, he would
have forgiven him with a peaceful smile at that
moment. He felt friendly to the whole world ;
nay, in his magnanimity he was conscious that
if Miss Blunsden asked him to dinner every day
for a fortnight, he would accept the invitation
without a grumble.

It is to be noted that it did not occur to
Arnold Robur that tlds state of affairs was "just
his luck." His plate was laid on Miss Hilda's
right, as that lady presided at the festal board :
Miss Joanna sat at the other end of the table ;
and opposite him, straight opposite him, was
Ursula.

The first article on the programme was an
elaborate grace, delivered with becoming solemnity
by Miss Blunsden. There is reason to fear
that Arnold's mind was not as attentive as it
might have been to the petitions for a blessing,
and the thanksgiving " for the many who are
less plentifully endowed," which made Miss
Joanna indulge in a gesture of some impatience.
He was too much occupied in giving inarticulate
thanks for blessings which the fair Mother
Superior knew not of.

'' Well, Hilda, I must say I don't feel thankful
that there are others less bounteously provided
for than ourselves," commented the younger Miss
Blunsden, when the grace was finished.

My dear Joan," said her sister, smiling
sweetly, " you must surely see that it is most
becoming and proper to return thanks for every
mercy vouchsafed us."

Joanna was obviously chafing at the other's
bland distortion of her meaning. Ursula broke

o

in cheerfully in her defence.

Why, Aunt Hilda, you surely aren't glad
that there are some people starving ! "

Arnold thought he had never heard so delicious
a voice.

'' My dear child " — it seemed that Aunt Hilda
was getting vexed — " if it is the merciful ordering
of Providence that some people should have to
be hungry, we should still be thankful."

Arnold thought it time to break in. Miss
Blunsden's back seemed to be getting up, if such
an expression may be applied to that chaste
though elderly maiden.

"I don't think any one who has heard some
of the graces they still say in a few of the colleges
at the 'Varsity would ever be discontented at
anything he is likely to hear south of the Tweed,"
he said. " To hear two old dons hammering
away at alternate clauses for three minutes, or

scholars peeing how quickly they can reel off a
yard of Latin, is more than human nature can
stand, if reverence is to be expected. Have you
ever visited Cambridge, Miss Lorton ? "

I was only there for a few hours once —
during the Long Vacation, I suppose, for there
seemed hardly anyone there."

"Ah, you should have been in the May week,
when the races are on. Ladies manage to getup
an astonishing amount of enthusiasm about
those races, I find ; but I have a private
suspicion that what they enjoy most is to see
an upset."

'ewe can see that sometimes without going
to Cambridge for it, Mr. Kobur." There was a
little ripple in the girl's voice which made
Arnold blush r^her unexpectedly.

"Well yes, — I'm afraid I made an example
of myself the other day ; and I suspect you saw
me, Miss Lorton."

Oh Arnold Eobur I Arnold Eobur ! If women
are hypocrites, what may not men be. "I
suspect you saw me " — as if your whole conduct
ever since hadn't been guided by your positive
knowledge of the fact !

But Ursula was not to be outdone.

Oh ! was that you I saw on the beach ? "
quoth she demurely.

Confound it, she might have let me think

she recognised me' thought Arnold, " but that's
a privilege I don't deserve."

Here Aunt Hilda broke in : her attention
having hitherto been centred on the fish which
she had been demolishing.

Dear me, Mr. Robur, I hope you didn't have
an accident ? You should really be careful ;
someone told me you weren't very strong."

'^ My accident was not of a serious nature,
Miss Blunsden. I had been indulging in a sail,
and as I wasn't attending to my business when
we ran ashore, I was tumbled overboard and got
a ducking. But sea-water is wholesome, and I
haven't suffered any evil consequences, I assure
you.

Oh, but are you quite sure, Mr. Robur ? I
know I heard you cough, when you came into
the house."

That's chronic," said Robur, laughing. " I've
had a cough for the last eight years or so, and
I never found it did me any harm. A real
thoroughgoing churchyard cough is the safest
thing in the world. It doesn't hurt, and really
if it didn't make so many people anxious 'to
ive me ' something: which was sure to cure meat
once,' I should rather like it than otherwise.
My lungs are as sound as a bell."

Miss Hilda's face assumed an expression of
serious concern. "Dear me," she said, "that

sounds very bad. I don't like to hear of young
people who do that sort of thing. Are you sure
you haven't been made worse by your accident ?
I don't think you're looking very well. Now,
when I am out of sorts, I find a little lio;ht
medicine is always a great assistance." Miss
Blunsden's air was a curious combination of
contented cheerfulness and sympathetic anxiety.
*' Would you be so good as to carve this for me ? "

Arnold promptly assumed the knife and fork
and set to work on the fowl before him. " Please
don't begin by getting alarmed about me,"
he said, when this business was satisfactorily
completed, " I don't deserve any sort of sympathy."


Aunt Hilda is a very skilful physician, Mr.
Robur : hadn't you better submit yourself to her
treatment ? " said Ursula, smiling.

Robur said to himself that he had no notion
how bewitching her face really was till he saw
that smile. It was one of those smiles which
few even of the loveliest girls can boast : a smile
which seems to belong only to the particular
person on whom it is bestowed, ^' making his
life splendid with a memory ; " so that it seems
incredible that a similar one should ever be
granted to any one else Conscious coquetry has
no weapon to be compared to this, the charm of
which lies very much in its unconsciousness.

But it inspires the highly-favoured recipient
with a yearning to thrust a knife into the vitals
of any man who has the audacity to speak to the
lady dio bestowed it.

Miss Blunsden's temper w-as thoroughly restored
by her niece's judicious compliment : she
purred like a cat when it attains to the highest
feline felicity, which, if wee may judge by appearances,
is more perfect than that enjoyed by any
other animal, man not being excepted.

I wish you would," she murmured ; '' if I
may say so, I really" believe Ursula is right. I
have been the instrument by which a number
of cures have been wrought. Some people
believe in quinine, Mr. Robur, but I have never
found it nearly so efficacious as the medicine I
am in the habit of recommending."

Did you ever try quinine ? " quoth Joanna
with some sharpness.

Joanna, dearest, I know your weakness on
this subject. I say nothing against quinine,
but I cannot think it is to be compared to my
medicine. But I am ready to appeal to Mr.
Robur. Let me persuade you to try it, IMr.
Robur, and I am sure it will do you all the
good in the world."

Miss Hilda's voice was persuasive, but Arnold
was not to be beguiled. He had been forced to
try too many nauseous compounds already by

anxious friends, and he knew as well as possible
that there was no reason whatever for drugging
himself. He sheltered himself under a mean
subterfuge.

''I fear," he said, smiling, 'that I should not
be a competent judge of the comparative merits
of the panaceas. I have never given quinine a
fair trial."

Six drops taken three times a day just
before meals in half a wine-glass of water, and
a double dose when you go to bed, would cure
you in a month, I am sure," said Miss Hilda :
not referring to the medicine he named.

You might give a month's trial to each, you
know," suggested Ursula, '' or take them turnabout
for a few weeks."

My dear," said her aunt seriously, *' I don't
think that plan would do at all. I have never
tried it among my poor."

Arnold seized the opportunity to turn the
conversation.

"I hope Saint Guthlac's altar-cloth is progressing
favourably," he said. "Does Miss
Lorton take her due share in these labours
for the spiritual enlightenment of the lower
orders ? "

'' T don't fancy I could enlighten the lower
orders much, Mr. Robur, if you mean the poor
people ; at least not in Aunt Hilda's way. I

haven't the necessary gift for artistic embroidery,"
said Ursula, her eyes lighting up
attain with the divine smile.

I wish," said the downright Joanna from
her end of the table, " that people would give
up talking about the lower orders, as if they
were an inferior part of creation. I don't think
it's right."

Peccavi'' said Arnold ; "I was wrong in
doing so, I admit. But it is one of those forms
of expression one gets into the habit of using,
without thinking what they mean. I must try
and get out of it."

Miss Hilda was crumbling her bread and
rolling it into little pills unconsciously, a sure
sign that she did not agree with the remarks
that where goings on.

*' Joanna, dearest," she said, with a suspicion
of tartness in her voice, '*I cannot understand
why you are always quarrelling with the arrangements
it has pleased Providence to make. We
have been divided into classes, some higher and
some lower, and it is my opinion, whatever. that
may be worth, that we should be thankful that
we are placed in a higher sphere than some of
our fellow-men ; and should rather labour to
teach our humbler brethren to be contented
with their lot, than seek to raise up misguided
ideas of equality in them. And I am sure that

is what the catechism of our dear ancestral
Church teaches us." And Miss Blunsden closed
her mouth, after this little oration, with a click,
as who should say, " That settles the question,
I rather think."

If they're to be thankful for their poverty,
WQ shall have to teach them a good deal, I
expect," said Joanna brusquely.

Ursula thought it was time to break in.

Surely we aren't going against the Church
catechism if we want people to try and better
themselves," she said. " It doesn't follow that
they are 'called' to just the state of life they
were born in, Aunt Hilda. Isn't there such
a thing as a right ambition ? "

We want them to improve their condition,"
said Arnold, '' but we don't want them to strive
after the impossible, or expect a state of society
where every one is equal all round, because that
would involve equality of brains, which no state
enactments are very likely to produce. But
surely we needn't regard them as inferior
creatures."

Miss Blunsden met this combined attack with
fortitude : even with a smile. " Dear me, Mr.
Robur," she replied, " I am surprised to find
you taking up these radical ideas, and actually
supporting my sister ! But things have changed
since my young days. It positively makes me

feel angry sometimes, the rude way the boys
behave, never touching their caps to their
superiors or anything. But I have said my
say." The good lady's magnanimity was doubtless
due in part to the presence of a guest, who
unluckily did not take her part.

Miss Lorton, however, thought it was time
to change the subject.

I am very remiss," she said, " I have never
asked after Grace Dalton yet, Mr. Robur. How
is she ? "

The question led to a general discussion about
the Daltonss, mingled with reminiscences of the
old Brighton days, which employed the company
pretty fully till dinner was finished.

"Ursula, child, aren't you going to give us
some music ? " suggested Aunt Joan, after they
had been seated some while in the drawing-room.
" I hope you are a musician, Mr. Robur."

Arnold admitted that he had been known to
play and sing, and that he held music generally
in high esteem.

Now do you know I never could understand
that enthusiasm for music ? " said Aunt Hilda.
Of course I think it's very nice in its proper
place, but I never could care for it in the way
some people seem to. There is nothing I like
better than a Gregorian, but as for these sonofs
everybody sings, I don't see the beauty in them."

"Oh, Aunt Hilda!" said Ursula. "Don't
believe her, Mr. Eobur ; she is very fond of
them. I believe they help her to go to sleep."

Come, Ursula, don't keep your aunt waiting,"
said Joanna : and the elder Miss Blunsden
subsided with a placid smile.

Let us have that new song of yours, my
dear. It ought to be new to Mr. Roberto

the piano was prepared and Ursula sang,
while Arnold sat enraptured.

"THY HEART TO MINE, LOVE."

Thy heart to mine, Love,

What if storms are wild ?
My heart to thine, Love,

Fiercest gales are mild.
Thy heart to mine, Love,

Suns shine overhead ;
My heart to thine, Love,

Soft paths are spread.

II.

Thy heart to mine, Love,

Sorrows flee away ;
My heart to thine, Love,

Labour turns to play.
Thy heart to mine. Love,

Peace comes for strife :
My heart to thine, Love,

Death turns to Life.

When the infatuated admirer heard that song,
he thought there never was, and never could

be, another to equal it, from which the depth
of his infatuation may easily be gathered.
However, he was not permitted simply to sit
and adore ; he was promptly summoned to take
his own share in the entertainment. He sang,
and played : he even had the ineffable bliss of
playing for Ursula when she sang again — this
time a song which was known to him. Miss
Lorton, to his great satisfaction, restricted herself
to sinoinor English sonojs : for somehow,
when we hear a human voice, however divine
the melody, we prefer to know what the words
are about ; and there are not many English
damsels who can sino; German or Italian sons
intelligibly, even for the ears of linguists. However,
seeing how few of the said damsels can
sing an English song intelligibly, perhaps
they are justified in confining their attentions
to foreign words. Then they can at least
aver that it is the ignorance of their audience
which makes them unintelligible ; and the
audience, fearing the accusation, will give double
applause.

So the evening passed pleasantly enough, till
Arnold felt that he must tear himself away.
With heartfelt expressions of gratitude for a very
delightful entertainment, he withdrew ; leaving
an important vital organ behind him, metaphorically
; and actually feeling the said organ

thump exceedingly hard when lie bade " good
nio-]]t " to Miss Lorton, and for the second time
that evening; felt her hand rest in his for one
brief moment.

He went out, and almost mechanically lighted
a cigar, to see himself home with. He looked
up at the moon which was looking down on
terrestrial proceedings with a broad grin on her
face : and felt tempted in vague exhilaration to
offer the chaste goddess a weed : but he refrained.
The incense of his own tobacco he considered
might suffice, and render her propitious. He
went down, and leaned over the railings that
topped the sea-wall, and looked out on the great
sheet of darkness, with one glorious band of
silver gleaming across it, and watched the tiny
ripples curling and sparkling in the moonlight :
and as he gazed, he thought over the last three
hours. What an evening ! Any man who has
spent four years at Cambridge is bound to have
had some pleasant evenings ; and Arnold had had
his share — but never one like this before. This
was another matter altogether. Somehow, it
seemed to take him out of himself : to raise him
to a new and purer sphere of being. And Ursula !
was there ever, could there ever have been
another girl like her, or comparable to her ?
Arnold's soul was filled with thanksgiving to
Paston for sending him down to Burnport. His

mind recurred to that conversation with his
friend at Oakleigh. Classify the devil ? No
need now. " The devil is routed permanently,"
thought our hero in the exhilaration of his
heart. " See what Burnport would do for me ?
Oh, Robert Paston, if you only knew ! Burnport
has done for me altogether." If he was somewhat
sanguine as to the surrender of the Prince
of Darkness, he may be excused.

When he had gazed and pondered his fill — or
to speak more correctly, when he became too
conscious that the air was cool, to go on gazing
and pondering comfortably, he turned his steps
regretfully homeward to his hotel.

For one more smile like that," said Arnold,
as he blew out his candle and turned into bed
an hour or so afterwards, "for one more smile
like that, I would — by Jove, I would turn
crossing-sweeper."

VOL. I.

CHAPTER Xii

A WALK.

But he had felt the power
Of Nature, and already was prepared
By his intense conceptions, to receive
Deeply the lesson deep of love which he
Whom Nature, by whatever means, has taught
To feel intensely, cannot but receive." — The Excursion.

Arnold allowed two or three days to elapse
before he again paid a visit at the house on East
Rise. They were days of almost insufferable
length and boredom, and he was at that stage
when absence from the beloved object seems to
be sheer waste of time, an impious refusal to
take the good that is provided. Especially is
this the case dien it is actually difficult to
avoid contact from the provoking proximity
of the enjoyment which must be temporarily
eschewed. Nevertheless, the laws of polite
society, wholesome or unwholesome, appear as
plainly written upon the hearts of all right-minded
persons as that significant warning

upon the palace wall at Babylon which robbed
a certain historical banquet of its conviviality.
Full many a time in the course of our lives
banquets are set before us too, but warned by
these laws (and perhaps others besides) we may
not touch the viands and continue without
reproach. There is a death's-head, do what
we will, to spoil the feast, and the name of
it is Decorum. Translating into plain English,
a young gentleman is expected to return the
hospitality of his entertainers by a call, but is
not to presume on the strength of a mere invitation
to dinner that any desire for his company
at all times and seasons is thereby intimated.
For which text, together with due illustrations
and corollaries, vide Etiquette Books.

Now, inasmuch as love is an uncertain thins,
not unfrequently susceptible of the longer form
of spelling known as infatuation, it may be
doubted whether such artificially compulsory
furloughs away from its service are likely to
end in results of undiluted benefit. A shrewd
and influential writer once remarked with cynical
candour that marriage was a lottery. That is
doubtless true enough in the case of the million.
But why should it be so ? Is such a state of
things so satisfactory that all can contentedly
acquiesce in it ? There is an aristocracy of love,
however, whose members have good reason for

T 2

their mutual affinities and selections, even though
they know it not. These have enjoyed many
opportunities of witnessing the behaviour of their
future mates before they dare palter with tremendous
oaths of faith and constancy. They
are in no haste for the livelong misery of contentious
strife when no discoveries can separate
them more ; knowing that, in whatever sense
marriages are made in heaven," there is neither
marriage nor divorce for the soul which has
never truly loved, and that to love we must in
some measure understand. If the tests of a
well-tried affection are less frequent they must
be more crucial, and thus love be purged by a
fiery ordeal of its own from the dross of a first
sight fancy.

'* And we've never been there yet*' Miss
Joanna was saying as Arnold was announced
and entered the room.

It seems I have chosen an unlucky time to
call," said he, after a few words. '' You were
speaking of going somewhere ; let me come in
another day." To lose the chance altogether of a
glimpse of Ursula after he had waited so patiently
for it would have been too hard.

Oh no, Mr. Kobur, thank you ; we have
been out to-day. Aunt Joan was only talking
about the caves at Marchland, we want to see
them so much. But I dare say you have been

there in your boat, and can tell us all about the
place."

He had not even heard the name, and besought
for further information. " My intimacy with the
coast, though a pretty close one with a spot in it
not a hundred miles away, is not so extensive as
you suppose, Miss Lorton."

She laughed. It was a treat to hear Ursula's
laugh ; there was not the least suspicion of excitement
or nervous exaggeration about it. You
felt sure that the laugher was just as capable
of feeling other emotions, it was so sincere and
sympathetic. Arnold would have craftily dissembled
his knowledge of any and every subject
if he could have got an account of it from her
lips by so doing.

Miss Hilda was not present, and Aunt Joan
was knitting a comforter for one of her Sunday
scholars with an abstracted air, so he was able
to confine his attention exclusively to Ursula as
she continued.

'' Marchland is a little fishing village along the
coast about ten miles from here, and there are
caves there, — very large ones, — covering about
two acres, I believe. Then there is an old
church, and the ruins of a castle, — a much
better one than our castle here, they say ;
and from all accounts it must be a charming
place. People go over there for picnics

sometimes in the summer, but nobody goes in
the winter."

Well," remarked Aunt Joan, " we must get
over there by hook or crook, Ursula, before the
tourist season comes round again."

*' Why not by sea'' said Arnold, " and let me
be your escort ? "

Ursula clapped her hands. " That is indeed
a happy thought, Mr. Robur," she cried enthusiastically.
" Wouldn't you like that, Aunt Joan ?
You often say how you wish you could go for a
sail."

In Aunt Joan's bosom, however, the usual
conflict was being fought between her own and
other people's likings, with the usual result.

*•' My dear," she replied, a little troubled at
disappointing Ursula, "as far as I am concerned,
very little tempting would make me burden Mr.
Robur with the responsibility of looking after
two troublesome females for a whole day ; but
we must not forget your Aunt Hilda, and I feel
quite sure that she would never trust herself
upon the sea with only a plank between her and
destruction. What's more to the purpose, she
would never allow us to run the risk alone, and
there wouldn't be much pleasure for her if she
came with us."

Ursula could not help smiling at the idea of
asking the Mother Superior of the Guild of St.

Guthlac to adventure her future capacity for
ministering to the spiritually destitute within
the narrow compass of a frail cockle-shell, as
any sea-going craft below the dimensions of a
first-class man-of-war was held to be in that
lady's estimation. Some young ladies might
have thought it prettier to pout, or drum pettishly
with their feet. But Ursula was an orphan,
and had not been spoiled, so there was some
excuse for her ignorance of such endearing little

o o

arts.

We could not leave poor dear Aunt Hilda
behind, she is so fond of old ruins and churches,"
was all she said.

Certainly not," said Arnold promptly ; " but
that needn't prevent our seeing all there is to
be seen at Marchland. If you will allow me, I
will arrange for our transport by land. Miss
Blunsden will not mind a carriage, I suppose,
if the horses are steady ; and I will make that
my special care."

When it appeared that Aunt Hilda could have
no possible objection to this mode of conveyance,
it was settled that Arnold should call for them
all with a suitable vehicle the next mornings, if
fine ; and Aunt Joan undertook to provide a
hamper for their lunch in the caves.

Wonderful to relate, the morrow, though it
did not bring with it a cloudless sky, was yet

amply favourable for the little expedition.
Arnold studied the weather forecast while he
sat at breakfast ; and seeing that a cyclone had
been prophesied with customary meteorological
malevolence for that very day, concluded quite
reasonably that all the required conditions had
been satisfied. When the comfortable landau
which he had ordered, drawn by two stout
horses, made its appearance, he flung himself
into it with an easy conscience, and was speedily
at East Rise.

Fortune was clearly on his side, for Miss
Hilda was not ready, and could by no means
be persuaded to start for another hour. Some
specimens of embroidery were undergoing inspection,
and it was highly important that the
select Committee which was sitting in judgment
upon them should not be hurried to any premature
decision.

It was no use, Aunt Joan said, attempting to
tell Miss Hilda that the carriage was waiting, for
she knew it already, and had locked herself up
in the drawing-room with the other like-minded
people, refusing to listen to any application from
outside ; and Miss Joanna calculated that it
would be wise to allow a full hour for the
sitting to continue.

All women, you know," she said to Arnold,
"and can't bring themselves to make up their

minds about a single point, even when they
can see it ; it's a perfect female College of
Cardinals."

Arnold was so tickled by the notion of this
mysterious society that the refractory conduct
of its prime mover, or ecclesiastical '' Number
One," did not affect him, and this made Ursula's
disconsolate face brighten.

'the horses shall go back to the stables for
an hour," said he. "I will walk on, with your
permission, and let you catch me up. Miss
Blunsden deserves my thanks for giving me the
opportunity to stretch my legs."

'' I don't see why you shouldn't get a walk
too, my dear," said that thoughtless old Aunt
Joan ; and the upshot was that these two young
people actually went forth alone, and trudged
along together for four miles without any one
thinking any harm.

Oh but Joanna was made to suffer finely
for this piece of imprudence. One would have
taken Miss Blunsden to be an experienced matron
with grown-up children of her own from the
severe way in which she handled her indiscreet
junior.

I do declare you might be the careless, giddy
creature you used to be thirty years ago, my
dear Joanna, instead of a sober woman of the
world."

Well, Hilda, you know I always do something
wrong when you are not by; you shouldn't
lock yourself up when visitors come."

Meanwhile the young man and maiden were
footing it briskly over the rain washed roads,
the fresh breeze quickening their blood, and
making their talk as unrestrained as its own
swift current. Who of us has not made experience
of days when all Nature seemed to
exhibit its unity in some new and striking
manner for our behoof? When we are permeated
by a sense of communion with every
natural object we can see or feel : when the
heart swells with exultation for its affinity to
every living organism in this great Universe,
and the soul grows large and comprehensive :
when the stranger whom one meets and passes,
never to behold again, is no stranger, but a
silent, unrecognised brother, and one is bound
to the casual companion at one's side by closest
kinship. And yet this personal connexion is
but a part, and a small part, of the eternal
shock and surprise of that revelation of indivisibility
which all things at such times have,
as it were, upon their lips to tell, and which
the least hint of a responsive attitude on the
part of deaf and blind humanity could, as it
seems, evoke in an articulate Te Deem.

The open country, and the beloved presence,

had an effect on Arnold such as he had never
fell; since he became a man, and never before in
its fulness. The crowded atmosphere of streets
and rooms was gone ; his individuality was lost
in the greater, the encircling Individuality ; he
was in the glow of the light " shed largely
round " which transfigures the dwellers in heaven,
and makes every change of conditions familiar,
every place and society homelike. He could
never have imagined the figure of Ursula would
seem so accidental and unnecessary, and yet he
doubted whether he should have lived the last
few moments but for her. In truth the impulse
to lay down their parts as principals, and become
subordinates in the universal pageant was upon
them both. Their souls merged in the surrounding
interfusion of soul, they became immortal fora
space, and unmoved beheld divine mysteries —
till the sound of wheels disturbed them from their
trance, and turned them back to clay. By this
time the sky had become clouded, and when
they reached their destination they found themselves
confined to the caves by a heavy downpour
of rain.

Never mind," said Ursula, " there is enough
to see here for one day."

After lunch they explored the gloomy and
fantastic region by the aid of candles supplied
by an old woman who lived in a hut at the

entrance, and who led, or rather misled, the
party through the strange labyrinth. Aunt Joan
asked her how she accounted for the existence of
the caves ; but this was a point upon which she
preserved a happy impartiality.

'' Some says the sea washed 'un out, teddy,
and some thinks the early Chris'uns did it ; leastways,
I've heard my feather say the smugglers
used to come here to hide up."

She spoke of the early Christians as if they
were a kind of extinct vegetable, — not unlike
early potatoes, or spring onions.

At last they came to the remains of what
seemed an extremely massive door of oak and
iron which still held its own in spite of the
ravages of decay. A large part of the centre
had succumbed, however, and in its place was an
iron wicket heavily padlocked.

Ye nun ask the parson about that," said the
old woman in answer to the questions put to herby
the visitors. " It leads into the church, that
way does ; but I can't let ye through."

They had been referred to the parson so often
during their perambulation, and were so anxious
to know more about the caves, that Arnold resolved
to see what he could do for them, and
set off for the villas through the rain at a run.

The clergyman was a courtly old man, full of
curious learning of the old-world sort, and very

much thrown away upon his poor little parish,
Arnold thought.

He was glad to make the acquaintance of such
gentle strangers, and wrapped himself in his
cloak at once in order to ascend the hill. He
was a bit of an antiquarian, he told Arnold on
the way, and had a patriotic pride in the ruins
and remains of the neighbourhood.

The ladies were agreeably surprised that
Arnold should have accomplished his object so
soon, and extremely grateful to the venerable
clergyman for leaving his warm fireside to place
himself at their service in such weather.

The atmosphere in these ancient caves is
always soft and equable," said he in mild deprecation
; *' the temperature never varies here,
whatever it may do outside. For years I have
kept a thermometer here which always stands at
the same level."

He showed them where it was in a dark corner,
and then opened the wicket in the old door to
lead them into the artificial passage beyond.

It runs under the churchyard," said he, as
they passed through it, " and at the time it was
made was the only entrance to the caves. The
place by which you entered was probably made
by outlaws to whom the original opening was
barred by the gate ; and it bears marks of having
been built up and pulled down again since. A

useful citadel this must have been for the monks
of the Priory above in case of raids made upon
them by neighbouring barons."

Opening another more modern door, he conducted
them into the church, an irregular Saxon
structure, not without its few poor anomalous
attempts at restoration. It was but a remnant
of the spacious fane in which the holy fathers
had once worshipped, so its pastor told them ;
and from a window they could see the traces of
crumbled foundations on every side.

The rest of the church, and the monastery
to which it was attached," said their guide ; and
bade them mark the castle, which seemed to be
about a mile away, across a dip in the hills.

The caves felt quite warm when they retraced
their steps, and left the cold church. The wicket
lead just been closed behind them when Aunt
Hilda remarked, with a sigh which almost extinguished
her candle, that life was too busy now
to admit of romance.

On the contrary, madam," said the clergyman,
'ris it not owing to the picturesque imagination
of us moderns that the past has in many of
its phases been rekindled ? The life led by
monk and confessor, knight and fair lady, was,
I suspect, at least as dull and sordid as our own,
though the fancy of the historian has loved to
bestow upon it a rosy apotheosis of which they

could have had no premonition. Fn like manner,
I do not doubt, we shall be objects of romantic
interest to our descendants when our prosaic
self-importance has been long forgotten. That
very door," he continued, touching it with his
hand, *' has a tragic story of its own, and has
survived to witness its development into the
soothing unreality of legend."

As he expressed his willingness to satisfy their
anxiety for farther information, he brought them
to a more open spot where the roof widened into
a kind of dome, and showed them rule ledges in
the rock, forming no uncomfortable resting-place.
Here they were soon disposed : Aunt Hilda first
tying a silk handkerchief over her head to keep
away the cobwebs. Ursula chose a place next
Aunt Joan where she could make a pillow of her
shoulder, while Arnold occupied a recess from
which he could observe the girl's face, and study
the emotions it exhibited. The clergyman paced
up and down the sandy floor, sometimes resting
himself upon a boulder in the midst.

CHAPTER XIV.

AN OMEN.

That pitee kenneth sone in gentil here,
Feeling his similitude in penes smerte,
Is preyed al-day, as men may it see,
As well by were as by anchorites." — Chaucer.

Wxt Segenb xrf the Cases.

I HAVE said that the caves are ancient,"
their guide began, in a measured, self-communing
tone; — indeed, his air throughout the following
recital was that of one lost in thought, as if the
associations for ever imprisoned in those wrinkled
walls and frowning chasms had overpowered his
consciousness of other things, and summoned of
themselves the words that fell half involuntarily
from his mouth.

So ancient are they," he continued, " that
their origin is lost in obscurity, and all that
we can say of it is but vain surmising. And
*' yet the load of earth and rock that rises more
'' than sixty feet above has weighed less heavily

'' upon them throughout their age of years than
"the dark tale of guilt and rage that blackens
this subterranean gloom, making its warm
*' shelter deadly. The graveyard outside is full
of human bones disinterred from time to time
'' within this place ; nor have the last, in all
** probability, yet come to light. No man had
covered them with earth, though man first
robbed these stones of innocence, and converted
the kindly refuge into an accidental charnel
house. Nature, outraged but forgiving, took
*' upon herself the task ; and with her shifting
surface accomplished their slow obsequies. The
o-rass on the hill top is rank with the venom of
frightful deeds that permeates everywhere
around. The knots swell with its curdled
essence ; its violent course throbs fiercely along
the seams.

"The deed of which I tell took place some
six or seven centuries ago, — eo matter when.
"It is a long time back, but the caves were old
even then. The monastery to which my church
belonged was a thriving and a splendid institution.
Most men of note or power in the
State were churchmen, in the narrow sense, at
'' that time ; even the authority of the sceptre
was disputed by that of Rome, and a single
cowl was often worth many coronets. Thus
"the colony of monks at Marchland possessed

VOL. I. U

the temporal allegiance of all who came within
their ken as an appanage of their spiritual
^' authority. The prior to whose administration
my story has given a peculiar interest was
known as far as most reputations could spread
in those days to be a man of the strictest
*' sanctity and discipline. Heaven be thanked,
men's characters are now more closely scrub'
tinted before they are entrusted with the
guardianship of others' eternal welfare. He
was of noble blood, — the chief recommendation
for such a post, apart from ecclesiastical pro
eminence. His brother had been lord of the
castle on the next height, the only other house
'' of importance in that part of the country. But
'' he was dead, and his widow, the stately lady
of Marchland, managed her estates alone, and
"ruled her serfs and villeins with an iron rod.
'' One child, and that a daughter, had been the
only offspring of the marriage. Her attractions,
*' it is said, were of so rare an order that no
*' youth could be found worthy of companionship
with such a mate, and she was destined by her
mother to bestow the wealth which would
descend to her upon the Church, as well as to
*' take the veil herself. Nor was the maid unwilling
for such an espousal, — at least to out
ward seeming. So pliant was her disposition
in the matter that her mother's careful watch



was relaxed. She was allowed to visit unattended
a bower in a hollow near the continues
of the priory lands as often as she would, and
thither she used to carry her books of devotion
*' when the days were long and mild. Some
times her mother would follow, and share her
*' solitude, but more frequently the cares of
"management detained her after her lord's
death, and she could seldom spare the time for
contemplation.

Women were little able to hold their own
in those rude times ; strong minds were scarcely
better than the weakest when the appeal was
made to force. Shrewd and courageous as the
lady of Marchland was, there was one power
with which it was impossible for her to cope.
Unfortunately that power was a neighbouring
one ; it was the monastery. Attacks by such
institutions upon their neighbours' rights were
not improbable or unknown.

"Founded to protect the weak, they often
themselves became oppressors. Defiance of
the laws was tempting when it was easy to sin
against them with impunity, and men whose
office it was to supplement the deficiencies of
the written code by works of charity and mercy
"lived securely in the habit of law-breaking,
when a layman might have been punished for
much less.

U 2

"For people in the country to communicate
*' their grievances to the Court was a course beset
with difficulties, especially when the suit affected
the interests of the clergy. The emissaries of
*' the party from whom redress was sought would
"not be idle. Their superior influence would
give them the advantage, and it was unlikely
that the great ecclesiastics by whom the king
was surrounded would decide against members
of their own body. Such was the position in
which the proud mistress of the castle was
"placed by the encroachments of monastic arrogance.
One night the fence separating twenty
acres of rich pasture from the priory was thrown
down, and when the lady's herdsmen attempted
to drive their cattle on to the ground next
*' morning they were repulsed by armed retainers
of the monastery. There was but one course
open, and the lady hurried to the prior, informed
him of the act of violence and trespass committed
by his servants, and demanded punishment
for the offenders, with restitution for
herself Indignation made her incoherent,
"and the smooth priest listened with a faint
smile that was half a sneer playing about his
"lips.

' Peace, daughter ; calm yourself he said at
"last, when she paused. 'If Holy Church
requires the few acres you say were yours, is

'' not Her word enough, and would you hesitate
to freely offer them ? '

' You claim them as your right, then, and
*' take upon yourself the guilt of the marauders % '
'' she replied, incensed by his cool villainy. ' The
** land was verily mine, as all know, before you
robbed it from me. Show me your claim, holy
'father, if you would have me render up my
own.'

The prior lost his self-control ; there was no
one by to see.

'' ' Woman,' he cried, and upon his brow there
settled a menacing expression, ' ask to see our
*' claim at your peril. Try to force it from us,
and your ruin shall be speedy. Your vassals
shall have licence to pillage and cheat you ;
none shall owe you service or money payment ;
even the weak protection of the law shall not
avail in your behalf. Urge me not to extremis
ties with vain complaints, but go hence humbly
accepting the justice that has been done.'

'' Before the threat of excommunication the
"lady cowered, and shrank back. The monk,
*' seeing his advantage, pursued it.

' Strong measures are for heretics and barbarians,
not for delicate ladies,' he continued,
"allowing the smile to revisit the corners of his
mouth, ' and you will not, I trust, court our
unwilling anathema. Were it not pity to let

folly go further, and then perhaps come off no
better ? Consider with yourself, and be advised.'

Thereupon he turned to his breviary, and
the lady, struggling with baffled rancour,
remained silent for awhile. When she spoke
again it was with altered mien, and her voice
had in it a ring of cunningly assumed dejection.

"your words are sharp, father, but they are
merited. If the Church demand aught from
me must I not straight give it up ? Then
pardon my rebellious spirit, and my late amends.
The notice has been brief, and I was unprepared.
But now that I comply, may the sacrifice win
me favour when it is most needed.'

"The lady had made up her mind, and her
submission was but feigned. As soon as she
reached home a secret messenger was despatched
to the sub-prior, entreating him for his intimacy
with the family at the castle to be present therewith
the least possible delay.

Father Silvester had been a courtier in former
days, and there were whispers of his dissolute
behaviour before he deserted the world for the
cloister. Now, however, he had embraced the
rigid austerity of his Order with the fervour of
a convert ; indeed, he seemed to burn with the
desire to make his unquenchable zeal outshine
even that of his superior. But if the gay
trickery of the gallant no longer clothed his

exterior, the coarse monkish dress covered a
heart still agitated with intrigue, and bursting
with ambitious schemes for his own advancement.
Had there been any scandal against the
prior, Silvester was the one man who would
have been sure to know and treasure it. He
had risen fast to the second post in the little
community, and that only made him the more
eager to fill the first place. It was a grievance
to him that another should be his superior at
all, and the very fact of superiority made the
possessor of it his enemy. Self-seeking had
become with him so invincible a passion that
the single word jealousy might stand for a
definition of his whole character, since all the
rest was show.

Long was he closeted with the lady of the
castle on that ill-omened day. His arrival and
departure were managed with such secrecy that
no one could have formed any suspicion which
might some day be communicated to the monks.
When he returned by a long circuit to the priory,
'it was with difficulty that he repressed the
signs of malicious triumph betrayed by his
excited looks and unwonted colour. ' Silence,'
he said to himself ; ' a little longer, and he will
be drawn into the net, and then my path is
clear.'

As soon as he was composed he sought the

prior, and conferred with him about one of the
*' brethren, a youth who had entered the monastery
at a tender age, and was employed in the
'' Scriptorium at the work of transcribing, a good
decipherer of glosses, and skilled in the miniature
of Horae.

' A worthy librarian to succeed our venerable
Brother Roger,' said the prior. ' What ails the
'* young man ? — I know him well

' Holy Father,' replied the other, ' you must
^' know that he has become much shrunk of late,
so that we almost doubt whether he be not a
prey to some slow inward malady. So useful a
member of our fraternity can ill be spared, and
"I humbly crave he may be absolved from
domestic duties for a season, and have licence
to wander in the open air at will to recover his
"youthful strength.'

"This speech had the intended effect. The
young brother was summoned before his elders,
and when the prior saw that he looked j^ale
and spiritless he bade him refresh himself with
bodily exercise, leaving the Scriptorium for a
period of recreation.

The object of this solicitude could not but be
surprised by so novel a display of interest. He
had been mouldering among the books for years,
till it seemed as though his skin were suffering
a transformation into parchment, and the gall

'^ of bitterness, mixing with his blood, were turning
it to ink. And yet these two holy men
"had taken no thought of him all the time.
"Temporary relief — nay, who knows but permanent
freedom — had come at last, then ; and
he was glad at heart ; that heart which was yet
to know what it meant to leap for joy within a
liberated body. It seemed all too dreamlike to
"be true. Was he actually to behold and revel
in the luxury of leisure and freedom while still
in the flesh '? He had always thought — in his
calm moments, when he was quiet and reasonable
'« — that this was some deferred hope only to be
fulfilled in the eternal future of the spirit. The
body must first be crushed by long labour and
imprisonment, and the soul perform its journey
through the land of the Dark Shadow, before
fruition of the hope might be achieved. So had
"the iron entered into his soul. Was it not
"unnatural (he had asked himself) to expect
anything different ? The spirit was entombed
within its carnal shell ; in like manner was life
here entombment, and this world a shroud.
"Did not the Apostle mean this when he said
that the real life was hidden ?

He had not always thought these things ;
there were other moods, — moods which patience
"had made less frequent. Now, however, the
old feelings revived. He could remember

nothing before his novitiate at the priory. He
was so young when he was brought there that
he had never known how it came about. That
was in the time of the old prior and sub-prior.
'* He recollected them well. They had been kind
to him, and for a while he was happy. The
consciousness of his position had not dawned,
'' upon him. It came only too surely in the end,
that cruel awakening; • and he had understood
how the vows taken in ignorance must be binding
upon him for life. ' Plush he had often
whispered to himself when the voice which told
"him so would echo wildly through his soul; 'it
will kill me ; I must silence it, or resolve not
to listen.' He had pored over the Scriptures,
but it was labour in vain ; they did not counsel
"his incarceration in that hateful trap. The
Lombard's Sentences could not reconcile him to
' his fate ; the Consolation of Boethius had no cons'
solation for him. But now in a moment the
"possibility of happiness had come. He longed
once more for the world outside ; the world of
chivalry and stirring action ; the world of human
intercourse and human love, without which that
"other were impossible : he would taste it all
before he died.

There was nothing fresh or striking in the
yearnings that almost tore his breast asunder,
and he knew it well. Others had endured the

same before him, some fighting nobly till the
*' fiend's suggestions were overcome, and they
could wait in peaceful resignation for their
souls' enfranchisement. But few had experienced
the sweets of living as it had been his
lot to do at rare and stolen intervals. Once or
twice a month his steps had strayed, when
observation was impossible, to the bower in
the hollow. Already he knew its lovely occupant,
and her image between these visits never
"left him, till, goaded by its poignant spell, he
felt that to look upon her was mad transport,
to embrace her would be worth the having
lived.

Latterly, however, he had realised something
of the blank despair which must be the
end of such empty self-delusion ; it was from
'' grief of this that he had pined, and lost his
bloom. But at the prior's words prudence was
in one instant gone, and every day he found
occasion to hold soft communing with the saint
who was enthroned within his heart. So the
hours of happiness slipped by, the last that
'' were to fall to those twain upon earth. He
had chafed under the enforced concealment of
his wooing, and prayed earnestly for the day
on which he might proclaim his love before the
world. What must have been his elation,
therefore, when the term was put to their

"sweet privacy. The morrow would see them
free to wed, and live their lives in the sunshine
of that sacred tie.

They had planned flight for the next morning
early, while it was dusk. She was to leave
the castle while its inmates slept, and meet
him at the creek near the village below. There
a boat would be in readiness, and with sails
and oars they would betake them whither they
could not be traced.

' My jewels will keep us till we reach a place
of safety,' she had said, ' and we must look to
Heaven to do the rest.' Then he told her that
he too was not quite penniless, and showed the
stone which he wore underneath, suspended
from his neck. ' That must go last,' he said,
' for it is a charm, and hallowed.' But she paid
little heed, and scarcely looked at it. They
agreed to land at a spot not far from Burnport,
and take horse thence to the capital. It was
"growing late when he bade her god-speed, and
left the bower. As he did so he fancied two
figures were moving rapidly away from him
among the trees in the little copse. One of
them might be a woman ; and the other wore
the garb which he was soon to abjure. But he
was occupied with his new hopes, and recked
not of other things. Doubtless the vision of
himself with his beloved one, impressed upon

his brain, had conjured itself into being there
'' before his eyes.

Time presses, and my story is a long one ;
*' I must pass on more rapidly.

'' All day had been spent in battling with the
*wind and water when the lovers neared their
haven. They had eaten nothing since they
started, and the maiden lay faint and numbed
*' at the bottom of the boat. Exhaustion had so
told upon her that something warned the youth
she must have warmth and shelter soon, or
she would die. Weary as he was himself, he
strained every muscle to keep their head
"straight for the point they would fain reach,
and they were upon it too near to reverse their
course, when his companion rose with a shriek,
and pointed to a dark mass on the shore moving
down towards them. It was a troop of horsemen,
and the sub-prior was at their head. The
waves threw the boat forward ; its passengers
were captives once again.

' Ungrateful one,' said the priest, as the youth
suffered himself to be bound without a word ;
* this, then, is my return for all the anxious
care I have bestowed upon your affairs. Rouse
'^ yourself, weak, sinful daughter,' he continued,
shaking her inanimate and prostrate form with
*' rude familiarity.

The youth ground his teeth together, but he

was impotent. He was carried to a led horse,
while the others gathered round his mistress.
Hers was the better fate, and death had gently
'' loosed the virgin spirit from a vessel too pure
for aught dishonouring. Trusty lay brethren
were deputed to remain with the tender corpse,
and convey it reverently home. This done, the
sub-prior conducted the cavalcade back to the
monastery, and the youth was thrust into a
"lonely cell to await his sentence.

At midnight the monks were all astir, and
every stall in the church was full as he was led
in. The high-altar was draped in black, and
a solemn requiem was chanted, for the quick
'' would soon be dead. On its conclusion the
prior stood up, and arraigned the prisoner.
He had traitorously rebelled against his vows,
and the just wrath of God must be appeased.
Instead of remaining steadfast, consecrated to
the service of heaven, he had secretly hankered
after the filthiness of the flesh ; he had touched
'•' the unclean thing, and must expiate his crime
by death. By that way alone — the way of
lingering starvation — could he hope to find
"the Divine Mercy, though it might well bethought
that there could be no pity at the
Throne of Grace for such misdeeds as his.
The prior then gave the word to proceed to
the caves. It was caught up by the throng,

'' and ' To the Caves ! ' resounded on all sides
with fatal though muffled distinctness.

The wretched victim started, and fell upon
his knees.

' Father, — ' he cried in his despair.

' Hence, child of Satan,' thundered the prior.
' Call not me father, vile spawn of hell.' He
waved his hand, and the procession moved
forward to a loud and jubilant strain.

Page lingua glorious
Pretium certarainis.'

As the last notes of the hymn died away
along; the cavernous roof the stones were
'' already being laid just where the door now
stands which roused your curiosity. A solid
barrier was soon raised, and the j^rioi' pronounced
sentence of excommunication upon anyone
dio should attempt to meddle with it.
The monks had a superstitious dread of the
place, and speedily retreated to their distant
quarters.

Three days later, when the religious house
*' had begun to settle down to its old routine,
the lady of the castle made her appearance
again before the prior. He was about to
express sympathy with her bereavement
when she interrupted him by a contemptuous
gesture.

' Peace, unhappy man,' she said ; ' keep your
ill-timed pity for yourself. Have you no
thought of the innocent boy whom you have
buried alive ? '

A sudden panic seized the object of this
taunt, and robbed him of the power to rebuke
her insolence.

' A profligate, a traitor to his Order, he was
nothing to me'* he gasped.

' He was your son,' replied the lady, in an
icy tone ; ' the union which he sought was
with his own half-sister.'

The prior's lips moved, but nothing came
from them.

' When he was born, a month after my
'marriage,' she continued, 'I gave him to an
aged dame who was bound to me by strong
interest, and she brought up the child until she
died. I sent him to the monastery, and he
'had taken the vows before he knew their import.
Ask old Roger ; he will bear me out in
this. Your infidelity could not drive me to
the step which I have taken. Even though
it hurt me once, I never let it urge me to injure
you. But when you took away my land, and
threatened me, I thirsted to strike the blow
that has been in my power so long, and now I
have my revenge.'

Her calculated coolness throughout was doing

its work ; she could see how every stab told on
him.

'' ' A lying tale, woman,' he said at last, and
his voice was very tremulous and hollow. ' The
dame is dead, and you have no proof.' But all
the time his conscience knew the truth, and
"that her words contained it.

' There was a gem in my possession which
you have seen.' An involuntary movement
*' showed how he remembered it. She enjoyed
'this agony for a moment, and went on. ' Upon
it were engraved the initials of the two names
by which we called each other then. Under
the most favourable conjunction of Jupiter and
the Sun I set it apart for an amulet, and when
the boy left his foster-mother he wore it round
*this neck. Judge whether it be there still, or
"the needs of the Church have required it of
him.'

It was her parting gibe, and for a time he
"remained sitting in a stupor, as she had left
"him. Father Silvester found him later tearing:
with bleeding; fingers at the stones which
blocked up the entrance to the caves. His
muttered prayers and groans prevented him
from hearing the intruder, and it was only
when the latter plucked him by the shoulder
that he turned round to confront him, uttering
as he did so an exclamation of horror.

VOL. I. x

' Child of Satan tliougii he was, your blood
'ran in his veins after all, it seems.' There was
mocking irony in the sub-prior's voice, and his
miserable victim made as though he would
have struck him to the earth. The other
stepped back hastily, and produced a crowbar
and pickaxe which were concealed in a dark
corner. The prior forgot his resentment, and
"seizing one of the tools, began to loosen the
stones from the mortar in which they were

embedded.

' Quick,' he cried, ' even yet he may be
living. Hark ; I hear him call.'

Silvester hesitated. Could it be ? Tush !
these were the idle ravings of a lunatic. They
worked on together at the breach, the prior
getting through as soon as it was large enough
to admit him. His colleague watched him
eagerly for a moment as he peered about with
his lantern, and then stole back through the
church into the monastery. Hurriedly collecting
the monks, he hastened with them to the
caves. Looking through the opening they saw
*' the prior stretched upon the ground beside the
emaciated form of the murdered youth. The
sub-prior entered to gaze upon the pair. The
son's body was still warm, and the father had
fainted upon it. A few seconds' earlier relief

might not have been vain. Silvester stooped,
and unclasped the amulet from the dead man's
neck, slipping it from the chain which the
prior's hand clutched firmly. Then he came
softly to the brethren, and explained to them
the whole strange sight. He showed them the
lady's jewel, and made them understand the
initials which it bore. The circle of proof was
'' completed by the discovery of the implements
brought there, so said the sub-prior, by the
guilty wretch in stealth that he might privily
rescue his flesh and blood.

The monks were satisfied, and sorrowfully
obeyed when their superior bade then assist inclosing
up the breach again.

' They have been separated for a life-time,'
he concluded ; ' let them rot together ; and
may the excommunication which he pronounced
be upon his own head,' he muttered between
*' his teeth.

* * * ^

' Men say that the great rift in the rock
*' above our heads was caused by an earthquake
on the very night when the dead and living
were sealed up here for company. The rent is
*' only thirty feet deep, and could give no way of
*' escape to the dying man even had he wished
for it. The barricade of stones remained for

X 2

'* years ; and wlieii it fell to pieces the superstition
of a new generation of monks set up this
massive door in its place to shut in the ghosts
of the starved prisoners. A sad memorial of
'^ crime and violence, it has lasted in the place
ever since. But of the two who perished then
^' at least one was innocent, and we may trust
has found such sustenance and glorious liberty
as he never dreamed of upon earth at the
eternal Marriage-Supper.' "

The old man ceased, and for a minute or two
the silence was unbroken. Arnold had seen the
tears stand in Ursula's eyes more than once
during their guide's narrative. At its close
something seemed to sparkle for a moment at
her feet. The dry sand was greedy of such
offerings, and it had faded before Arnold could
trace its origin. But Heaven does not permit
its creatures to be more gracious than itself, and
for every drop of compassion shed by human
eyes rains down a plenteous stream of loving-kindness
upon our petty toil and suffering.

The air was radiant as they descended the hill,
and the sea lay in a purple calm. Whatever
secrets lay underneath, its surface was unwrinkled
and expressionless.

Good-bye," said Miss Hilda, as the clergyman

assisted her into the carriage, ^' we owe you
so much gratitude for your pretty story. Poor
young things ; I declare I can hardly get their
sad lot out of my head."

She enjoyed a pleasant doze during the drive
home, as the others for some reason or other
were not inclined to talk. Perhaps the interest
attaching to the caves had taken even firmer
hold of their heads than it had of the Mother
Superior's.

It may have been that in the ironical game of
hide-and-seek which Fate never tires of playing
with us some presage of a deeper ground for
their sympathy was darkly present in the minds
of the three others, a faint suspicion of analogy
between the future that was yet in store for
them and that dim legendary outline of the past.
Had they been listening to a necromantic casting
of their own horoscopes % The feeling was scarcely
strong enough to do more than suggest the
notion. They could almost believe themselves
to be within guessing; distance of the truth. But
Fate was obdurate, and having lured them to
the pursuit, would give no further clue. Nevertheless,
prodigal though she be of details, her
poverty in conceiving general outlines is so
remarkable that it is a wonder she is not caught
more often quite early in the game. And so she

might be, were it not for her crafty delusion of
each of us into emphasising unwarily the peculiarity
of our details, and for the difficulties she
throws in the way of our getting a sweeping
survey of our lives with their various environments
through the telescope of some exterior
observatory J^

END OF VOLUME I.

OF THE

UN IVLR5ITY

or ILLINOIS



cr3/2a

v2

VOL. II.

% iobtl

By martin combe

AND

DUNCAN LISLE

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

LONDON: CHAPMAN AND HALL

Limited



[All right$ reserved]

1U"N(!AV,

and Bread Street Ili, London.

CONTENTS OF VOLUME 11.

CHAPTER I.

PACK

BENEATH THE SURFACE . . . 1

CHAPTER IL

ON THE SURFACE . . . . 27

CHAPTER III.

"one THING Thou LACK EST " . . . 54

CHAPTER IV.

CrIRISTMAS AT Harleigh . . . 71

CHAPTER Y.

"ODS PISTOLS AND BULLETS " . . . 98

CHAPTER VI.

Armytage . . . . . 119

CHAPTER VII.

A THOROUGHGOING CHAMPION . . . 143

CHAPTER VIII.

Page

"abi in malam rem" . . ••• 164

CHAPTER IX.

NOT IN THE Pharmacopoeia

CHAPTER XL

AN AFTERNOON CALL



CHAPTER X.

TWO IS COMPANY . . . 204



CHAPTER XII.

PROPOSAL AND DISPOSAL . . . 243

CHAPTER XIII.
Ursula's birthday . . . . 256

CHAPTER XIV.

A SURPRISE . . . . 281

CHAPTER I.

BENEATH THE SURFACE.

I have heard that what they call Nature is like a potter who
makes earthen vessels. He who makes one handsome
vessel may also make two, three, and a hundred. This I
say because in God's faith my lady the duchess comes not a
whit behind my mistress, the lady Dulcinea del Toboso."

Sancho Panza.

"Dear Master,

This sums wishing of you well,
*' and being to infirm you as all wot i spect
as cum trew, please sir. i dont know as i remembers
any think of the sort befor at Oakleigh,
and Mr. Eok he green with me as this here
upset is jest natural and wot wos to be spect
after the smooth way thinks lev bin going
lately, being fortnightly in the house at the time
of this here esprit attempt, and behaving of
^' himself that galant as in a party advanced, so
to speke, in ears, and not over limber in the pins
neither, regular surprised me and Mrs. Marchpane,

VOL. II. B

'threw the think being strange like, not to
say families. Not but wot fire arms is well
snuff in day time, and i aunt the wun to jump
wen i leers them as a general root, but wot i
says is they is ap to wake wun up at nite
rather to pudding. Well, sir, this here visits
of Providence, leastways piers and
steele's, lev cum at last, and there aunt no
knowing wot may happen next, specially cos
nothing aunt bin took this time, baring the
winder as was smash. All sorts of purwishuns
as bin made again a nether attempt, not as i lev
sed nothing to the police, wishing to ax yore
lee, sir, must, and bin much abused in consequence.
Hopping as you will improve the corse
wot lev bin took, and will rite word as you can
rest up on me for soldering of your instrukshuns
immejit on a rival,

i rites myself yours respectable,

''J. GlBBINS.

Pes. — There may or may not be a writer side
*' to all this here, i rather thinks there is, but
wont make to shore."

An autograph letter from the astute Joshua
"was, as Arnold knew, a unique curiosity, and it
may have been that the thought consoled him
for the riddling hints and allusions of this extraordinary

missive. At any rate he was more
disposed to be amused than vexed when, after
repeated perusals, he had succeeded in amending
the original as far as that process was possible.
For there were two important difficulties which
do not appear in this conscientiously edited copy,
the eccentricity of the penmanship and the
total absence of stops. Obscure as the bailiff's
epistolary style appeared on first sight, one of
the causes of this obscurity — the letter s unbroken
continuity — was removable.

This obstacle in the way of interpretation,
though bad enough, was finally surmounted ; but
when it came to the danger of mistaking one
word for another, to say nothing of the enigmatical
look worn by whole passages — many of them
being evident palimpsests, — the job would have
bothered an expert. Gibbins' spelling was unorthodox
to the verge of systematic heresy, the
only words he got right being those he put down
offhand, and without thinking them over. These
were, however, quite the exception. Worse than
all, when the task was at last accomplished the
result of the morning's work was so eminently
unsatisfactory, and the meaning of the document,
supposing it to have any, still involved in such
impenetrable gloom, that the reader felt like
some half sceptical visitor at Delphi or Dodona
in old times, and rather regretted the expenditure

B 2

of SO much ingenuity. Perhaps, however, the
provoking want of perspicuity in this oracular
communication was not without its advantages.
There was less time for suspense, on account of
the period occupied in translation, and Eobur
had only just begun to wonder in good earnest
what it was all about when the second post
brought him a lucid account of the matter from
Mr. Dalton, who offered to undertake the business
of investigating it as far as possible. The facts
seemed too insignificant, now that he was in
possession of them, to make Arnold hurry back
to Oakleigh ; so he contented himself with accepting
his late guardian's proffered assistance, and
wrote a soothing note to Gibbins to calm his
agitation. When, in addition to this, Mr. Rock's
share in the occurrence had received a flattering
acknowledgment there was nothing more to be
done. The whole affair was soon dismissed from
Arnold's mind : the range of his mental activity
was somewhat circumscribed just about that time,
extending, indeed, no farther than the limits of
Burnport and its neighbourhood. More distant
objects failed to interest, and his attention refused
to concentrate itself upon them, — not that
there was anything very remarkable in the circumstance
; for, to tell the truth, his efforts to
break through the charmed circle were not
particularly vigorous.

He had become well acquainted with the ins
and outs of the town, and, like all habitues, knew
which part of it suited him best. On the whole,
therefore, his decided preference for East Else
and the adjacent locality is little likely to have
been the result of a mere idle, ill-considered
crotchet, and could doubtless have been amply-justified
by au appeal to some occult hygienic
principle. Could he have haunted so assiduously
the municipal garden unless there had been a
sound sanitary reason at the bottom of such
conduct ? Sometimes he would meet Miss Joanna
and Ursula, and then they would all pace up and
down the sheltered promenade together.

So convenient, you know," said Joanna
innocently on one of these occasions, *for us
to have this garden close to our house. It mio^ht
almost belong to us, for we hardly ever meet a
soul here except you, Mr. Robur. Delightfully
quiet and private, isn't it ? I'm sure I don't
wonder at your enjoying it."

Aunt Joan was not accompanied by her niece
that day, as it happened, — having been out alone
to do some marketing, she told Arnold, — so he
was less embarrassed by her remark than he
might have been. The insinuation which it contained
was unanswerable, and he acknowledged
with a laugh that, much as he liked the garden
at all times, the moments when it appeared at

its best were, in his opinion, unfortunately rare.
There was a pause, during which the lady shook
her head once or twice, and sighed.

"Yes," she said presently, "few gardens can
boast a flower like the one that grows near here ;
may it never know less careful tending than ours
has been."

They were resting on a seat by the pond, for
the air was full of sunshine, and the glen was
always warmer than other places. Aunt Joan
had taken off her gloves, and they had fallen
from her lap to the ground. Arnold stooped topick
them up, and was struck, as he returned
them, by an expression on her face which he had
never noticed there before. She was gazing
straight in front of her with a clear brow, her
eyes slightly dilated, and a warmer tint than
usual in her cheeks. Her hands were clasped
loosely, and her whole figure seemed illuminated
with that after-glow of youth which sometimes
plays about the path of men and women whose
hearts do not grow old as their joints stiffen, the
best aureole that may be worn on this side of the
grave. He could scarcely have believed such
transfiguration to be possible in the careworn
and wrinkled woman before him ; indeed, while
he hesitated it was gone, but not before the
revelation had been made of hidden beauty
behind this matter-of-fact exterior, that charm

which can invest grey hair with the rich hue of
romance, shedding upon the dullest career of
doing good a transcendent glory not of earth.
Nature's treasury lies everywhere beneath the
common stones we tread on ; but the witchery of
greed which is upon us forces us away, letting us
look at none but shining surfaces. So are we
doomed to miss over earth's navel as a mere
unsightly block, and find some day that the
jabbering heroism of publicity upon which we
have been intent is a paste imposture after all,
when it has ruined us to secure it for our coffers.

Miss Blunsden," said Arnold, looking her
honestly in the face, " have I been taking an
unfair advantage of your generosity to me ? "

Not so far as I know' she replied somewhat
bluntly, " but that is surely a question which
you are most competent to answer for yourself.
You have been frank with me, and I will be
frank with you. No, I think you have been very
moderate with your attentions. You may be
sure I should have spoken out if I had thought
badly of you in that respect," and Joanna gave
vent to a grim chuckle in which he could not
help joining, the sincerity of her last observation
was so unmistakable. " The fact is," she continued,
folding her arms as if in the determination
to go through with the performance of an unpleasant
duty, " it was your very moderation

that made me drop that hint just now. You
see, there was an evident self-restraint about
such a piece of consideration, and it rather
frightened me. Take my word for it, Mr. Eobur,
you are getting on too fast. Outsides aren't
enough to go upon, as you know quite well inmost
things," and she nodded sagaciously at the
young man ; "you wouldn't take a house on the
strength of 'em, for instance, and you can't take
a wife on trial as you san a house."

Surely appearances aren't always deceptive,"
said Arnold, a little oppressed by Miss Joanna's
common sense ; ''I should have thought that
nothing could be more truthful than the expression
on some people's faces. I don't fancy
Miranda was wrong in her first impression of
Ferdinand, and I often feel inclined to say with
her, ' There's nothing ill can dwell in suc/i a
temple.' "

There was a pause, during which his companion
took a biscuit from her reticule, and
proceeded to feed the ducks with it. When she
had thrown away the last morsel, she remarked,
carefully removing a crumb from her dress,
Well, I'm not particularly good at special
pleading, and I don't suppose Miranda's associations
could have been much more stainless than
Ursula's have been. If there is any deception in
the case it isn't on her side, Mr. Eobur. Only it

seems to me better to wait and judge folks by
their fruit."

You wish me to wait, Miss Blunsden ? I

am prepared to do that ; why, if that is ail "

He stopped suddenly in the midst of his heat.
Again that change in her which he had already
witnessed, only this time her calmness seemed
almost stern. What could it mean ? Her voice
did not sound hard, however, as she replied
deliberately —

No, you are not prepared to face failure and
disappointment. You can wait, if waiting means
success; not otherwise. Could you face the
growing conviction that your love was to be
idle as far as attainment of its object was concerned
? Could you endure to feel that, worthy,
and more than worthy, as the object was, your
attachment could never be returned as you had
resolved it should and must ? No, no ; you
must not give yourself credit for such unselfishness,
Mr. Eobur. Pardon me for being old, and
knowing better," she added gently.

Arnold was humbled. It was true enough, he
thought, this noble constancy without hope was
beyond him. Others might so endure, but not
he ; even this woman was immeasurably superior
to him, for he was convinced that she had spoken
from her own experience. Here, then, was the
key to her sweet and quiet character. It was

easy to see now why Joanna had remained single
all her life's — certainly not for want of the capacity
for loving and being loved, or because her soul
Jiad never been tried by the flame of lifelong
devotion beside which all other fires sink pale
and ineffectual. Might not her example, he
mused, point out the answer to the riddle which
he was fitfully trying to solve? What if the
only road to happiness lay through this very
capacity for sacrifice ? With such a talisman,
however uncertain the future, his life was
founded upon a rock ; ultimate fruition or loss
were become secondary matters, and every grievance
temporary. Shall love prompt a man to
die for its object, and shall it not also bid him
live — a harder trial sometimes — when his hope
is gone ? No unmeaning flourish would be the
death-bed Vii of one who had carried so glorious
a failure about with him all his days.

The murder's out," said Aunt Joan, putting
on her gloves, " and I'm not going to say anymore
about it. If you're not going to give me
up for being so outspoken, come and see us as
often as you like. It won't do you any harm, in
my opinion, to be our guest more frequently.
One doesn't get rid of an infatuation any the
sooner for brooding over it alone. Anyhow, we
all like each other ; and I don't see why we
shouldn't improve the acquaintance as much

as possible. Bless my soul, it's beginning to
rain."

Arnold was weather-wise, and had brought his
umbrella with him ; so there was an excellent
excuse for walking on with Miss Joanna. They
parted on the door-step of the house on East
Else, the lady remarking, as she thanked him for
the shelter, that he was not to be taken in by a
bright morning, at any rate. " I never dreamt
the clouds could come up so soon after the sunshine,"
she added.

' The Devil is beating his mother,' " said
Arnold ; " you forget what a skilful navigator
I am ; when are you going to trust yourself out
for a sail with me ? " and he set off down the
hill at a brisk pace.

He was eating an apple that evening at dessert
when he suddenly remembered Joanna's advice
to judge people by their fruit. " Which do you
like best, apples or pears ? " he asked the old lady
whose neighbour he generally found himself at
table d'hote.

"Well, really, now you ask me," she replied
conscientiously, " I don't know that I've any
preference. Don't you think one sort of fruit is
as good as another ? "

Yes, I suppose it is ; and yet I like apples a
great deal better than pears."

It all depends what one has been accustomed

to," said the old lady ; " now I can remember an
old pear-tree in our garden at home when I was
a girl, and that makes me think of all the people,
two or three generations, to whom I have known
it give enjoyment." She sipped her wine reflectively,
and then continued — " I don't suppose a
taste that requires to be cultivated is ever quite
the same elinor. It's second nature with me too



enjoy the flavour of pears and apples, but I must
confess I never cared much for olives."

But surely one may acquire new tastes which
grow in time to be as strong as the old ones,"
said Arnold, ^' or how could one make friends
outside one's own family ? "

The old lady laughed. '* What a corner you've
driven me into ! " she said. '^ After all, it
depends a good deal on your bringing up what
sort of people you take to afterwards. Even if
you strike out quite a different line from what
your family intended you to, that's only natural
if they've forced you along with them against
your will, and of course one's education goes on
more or less outside one's family," and the lilac
ribbons nodded at him benignly.

Subject as young men are to the sway of
youthful beauty, they must often be conscious of
reaction when their sovereign oversteps prerogative,
and admit to themselves that " persons in
years seem many times more amiable." Love's

service becomes occasionally too exacting, and
they betake them to those wise counsellors who
have passed through it all before them, and been
honourably discharged. Perhaps there are few
women whose retirement has always been so
complete that they can attribute their solitary
performance of life's duties to the accident of a
narrow circle of male acquaintances, or who can
look back and say their wedded happiness was
ensured by such and such a party or dance. But
whatever the truth may be, such was not the
case with Hilda and Joanna Blunsden. The
elder of the two sisters, though not without a
certain prettiness of her own in younger days, of
which the traces were still visible, had never
inspired more than a passing interest, — an
interest doomed to be dissipated by further
intercourse with its object. Had Arnold been
unlucky enough to have imparted his confidence
to her, instead of to her sister, he would certainly
have met with scant sympathy, for no place in
her memory was green with the lasting freshness
of any similar experience. In spite of her romantic
talk, she could be as hard and selfishly practical
as the pettiest of petty tradesmen, — a class lie
affected to despise, — even to the extent of allowing
Joanna to bear the whole expense of maintaining
Ursula, whom a chance had thrown upon
their hands, assured that her staunch junior

would never let the girl suppose she was not
equally indebted to both her aunts. The difference
between the two women, as far as it was
outward, may be summed up by saying that a lifetime
spent in Joanna's society would have been
too short for the full enjoyment of it, her kind
acts and forbearance were so inexhaustible ;
while a single day of her sister's company would
have tried the patience of the most stoical person
who ever lived.

Now, though the curate of St. Guthlac's, the
most fashionable church at Burnport, was a great
ally of Miss Blunsden's, — being, in fact, the chaplain
of her Guild, as she chose to call him, — a
great gulf was fixed between her and the vicar,
into which she was in the habit of emptying all
the vials and slop-pails of her wrath.

The three ladies were sitting in the drawing-room
after dinner, Aunt Hilda going to sleep
over her embroidery, while Ursula read aloud to
Aunt Joan from The Fifteen Decisive Battles of the
World. Joanna left off her work to watch the
reader's cheek kindling at the account of some
hero's exploits, and when Ursula laid down the
book at the end of the passage, they both fell to
eagerly canvassing the respective merits of the
opposite causes concerned. This roused the
Mother Superior, who had no fancy for the
policy of non-intervention in any subject foreign

or domestic. She soon found, however, that the
present discussion wa beyond, or, according to
her opinion, beneath her, and automatically determined
to change it.

What was it that horrid man, Mr. Montague,
said in his sermon last Sunday, Ursula ? " she
asked.

Ursula laughed ; she knew what Miss Hilda
referred to, as they had already more than once
been favoured with that lady's unflattering criticism
on poor Mr. Montague's remark.

Do you mean what he said about his being a
red-hot Radical,' Aunt Hilda ? "

Yes, child, of course I do. To think, Joanna,
dearest, of that man daring to get up in the
pulpit, and air his dreadful political views before
a respectable congregation ! As if he were talking
to a crowd of cobblers and shopkeepers out
on the beach, too, instead of to ladies and gentlemen
in church."

Aunt Joan could not repress a yawn.

One would think, Hilda, that you wanted
him to call us 'Ladies and Gentlemen,' like a
member of Parliament speaking to his constituents,
instead of his ' dear brethren.' "

Miss Blunsden knew w4iat was due to herself,
and she resolved not to let this remark pass without
a scathino^ rebuke. " It's bad enough to
yawn, my dear," she said severely, 'but now

you are positively profane. I'm ashamed of
you'

Much obliged to you, my dear ; but I really
don't think Mr. Montague has committed a crime,
even though I can't agree with his politics.
He won't extend his influence with his parishioners
that way, I think, as most of them are
Conservatives ; but that's all."

"That's all!" cried her sister, aghast at this
flippancy, "do you mean to say that we may
take our private differences and party badges to
church with us without doing any harm, and air
our own opinions before our fellow-creatures without
caring where we are, or what they think of
us ? Eeally, Joanna, dearest, I sometimes think
you can't believe in anything."

Miss Hilda had a way — and a very common
way it is, unfortunately, with disputants of every
class — of putting arguments of her own invention
into an opponent's mouth for the purpose of exposing
their weak points with ruthless impartiality.
She was buckling on her armour for an edifying
sham-fight of this description, when Ursula, who
could not bear to sit still and see her best friend
so unkindly mauled, interposed, and hazarded
the observation that Aunt Joan had neither said,
nor meant to say, anything of the sort, she was
sure. Unwise as it is in general to anticipate a
friend's controversial powers, unless you want to

lose your friend, it was more so than ever in this
particular case. An outbreak with Joanna always
(lid Miss Hilda a world of good. Her goody-goody
preciseness left her no opportunity of
exhibiting those honest emotions which even
the silliest people sometimes feel ; and, as a
consequence, ebullitions innocent enough, if
allowed free vent, were seasoned, the longer
they were delayed, with a more pungent dash
of spite.

There was an awkward silence for a minute or
two. Miss Hilda seemed to be struo-orlinor with
suppressed excitement ; Ursula could hear the
tissue-paper rustling under her hand, and knew
it trembled.

Side with your aunt, child," she said at
length bitterly, mastering herself; "I am accustomed
to have you both against me, heaven
knows."

nonsense, Hilda." Aunt Joan's voice was
stern, to be sure, and yet it sounded oddly
tremulous too. " Ursula loves you as much as
she does me, — don't you, Ursula ? and you
shouldn't talk like that. If I don't believe quite
everything you do, at all events I believe that
we ought all to be united. It wont do for three
unprotected females to go scratching each other's
eyes out when they might live in peace and
quietness," and she forced a laugh.

V

YOL. II.

Ursula went over to where Miss Hilda was
sitting and kissed her.

'' Forgive me if I said anything wrong," she
whispered ; " and pray, dear Aunt Hilda, don't
think any more about my thoughtlessness.
"Why," she went on, looking at the embroidery
on the frame, " you want me to help you, I can
see ; shall we try to finish off" — she was going
to say "his dear old nose," but refrained in time
" the upper part of St. Guthrie's face, down to
the mouth, before we go to bed ? "

This was an adroit manoeuvre, and Miss Hilda
capitulated without more ado.

Wei], well, my dear," she said, heaving a
piteous sigh, " we will say no more about it ; I
dare say we shall have plenty more opportunities."


To people not in the habit of looking below
the surplice, Miss Blunsden's little display of
temper may seem rather absurd ; but ladies do
not always say exactly what they mean, and it is
possible that her strictures upon Mr. Montague
were not entirely due to the ostensible cause.
But whether or not she had simply made use of
the introduction of politics in the pulpit as a peg
on which to hang her discourse, and nothing
more, certain it is that on the very Sunday in
question she had, from the moment her enemy
gave out his text, become afflicted with so violent

an attack of catarrh that he was driven, after the
complete annihilation of some of his best periods,
to break off in the middle of his sermon and suggest
the advisability of retiring to all who found
it impossible to control their coughs. Aunt Disdain
her capacity as Mother Superior, always occupied
a front seat directly under the preacher's
eyes, and though her tortured victim's proposal
was veiled under the most discreet generality, she
knew — so she said afterwards in a weak moment
upon whose malady the wretched Montague
had chosen to make his unchristian and ungentlemanly
attack. Was she to be insulted
openly, she asked, because she happened to be
suffering from a bad cold ? No ; she would not
suffer the sacred edifice to be disgraced, whatever
others might do. So she had stuck to her post,
with the result of winning the day, and earning
the gratitude of the congregation by bringing
the clergyman's discourse to a premature close.
She might have been less proud of her achievement,
however, if she had heard him commenting
on the affair to his wife over the luncheon
table.

That Jezebel spoilt the sermon over which I
took such pains with one of her spurious coughing
fits," he said. " Never mind ; I shall preach
it again next Sunday ; it'll save me the trouble
of writing; another."

o

C 2

No one can say that, after his atrocious conduct
to her, Miss Hilda had not sufficient reason
for detracting from the vicar's character whenever
and in whatever mode she liked. But after
all — and here again there is the testimony of her
own word to be relied on — she was a charitable
woman, and in spite of this and similar affronts
she did not relax her pious efforts on behalf of
her parish and for the honour of her patron saint.
A large room at the top of the house was given
up to the service of the Guild. Its members
often met there, and Miss Joanna was always
warned to be in readiness to make tea for them
on such occasions, and send it up from below.
Besides this the larger pieces of work were done
there, the frames requiring more space than could
be allotted to them down-stairs. Miss Dispossessed
rare administrative ability, and not
only stitched away herself, — at which occupation,
if the truth must be confessed, she was rather an
indifferent hand, — but enlisted every capable
recruit she could lay hold of into the service
likewise. Two or three days in each week
Ursula was made to take her turn at this
drudgery, and her nimble fingers worked at it
uncomplainingly, though she could bring herself
to feel no enthusiasm for the cause to which her
aunt was devoted, and would far rather have been
painting in her own little studio, or singing at the

piano. Joanna and she were both fond of music,
while Miss Hilda hated it, with the exception of
Gregorian chants (when she was told what they
were), and always declared it to be waste of time,
besides making her head ache ; so they could
only play their duets together when she was out
of hearing.

One particular chair in the drawing-room —
needless to say it was decidedly the most comfortable
one — was appropriated to the Mother
Superior's exclusive use. It was permanently
stationed in the cosiest corner by the fire-place,
and when she was not there a cord was drawn
across its two arms to protect it from the unconsecrated
pressure of persons of the baser sort.
In order to further ensure this shrine against
profanation in her absence, it was Miss Hilda's
custom to place her own peculiar footstool on
the seat, — both the stool and the seat being
embroidered with the same quasi-ecclesiastical
pattern, so that the Apostle Paul himself could
not have found any disorderliness to grumble at
in the proceeding. * The little table containing
the lady's silks, and the work for which they
were intended, was similarly draped, and gave
evidence of the same austere luxury. Now it is
a melancholy fact that the only other human
being who had ever ventured to usurp Aunt
Hilda's chair was Mr. Montague. When she

entered the room to receive his very first call he
was " discovered," as the stage-direction says,
seated on the virgin cushion from which he had
actually removed the stool. Hence the implacable
animosity of its owner, — a feeling which,
happily for her peace of mind, was not reciprocated
with equal warmth. The vicar was amused
at her punctiliousness, said that his digestion
would suffer without paying Miss Blunsden an
occasional visit, and allowed her considerable
liberty as his self-appointed sacristan.

The only person from whom Miss Hilda
ever met with any real resistance was Joanna ;
and, though the wounds she thus received in
sisterly combat were few and far between, the
sense of injury from their infliction was by no
means soon effaced. Joanna was very patient,
like all strong characters, and before Ursula came
to live with them she had borne so much from
her sister — having only herself to think of — that
she cannot be altogether acquitted of having
spoiled that estimable woman. Aunt Joan could
see her own rights encroached upon without a
murmur ; but when someone else's interest was
at stake, especially where the comfort and happiness
of " that dear friendless child," as she called
Ursula, was concerned, she was so uncompromising
a champion that Miss Hilda might as well
have tried to persuade a stone wall with iron

spikes on the top. When the girl's mother died,
and she was left penniless, Joanna had insisted
upon giving her all the advantages of their
school, and bringing her up as a lady. It was
the first important difference that had occurred
between the sisters for years, and after a sharp
encounter Hilda went down before her opponent's
determined front. If Joanna had cared to fight
the condition attached to her senior's consent,
doubtless she might have scored another victory ;
but she had earned a solid little annuity for
herself, and contemptuously yielded her agreement
to undertake the sole responsibility of providing
for her protegee. From that day forward
Ursula was at the bottom of all their disputes,
and though the younger sister always carried her
point, it was generally attended by some small
personal sacrifice, her careless generosity often
minos Hilda an advantage, which she was not
slow to use. Not that the elder Miss Blunsden
ever had reason to regret the addition to her
domestic circle. Ursula soon became, even to
her, a silently recognised necessity. The house
on East Rise would have been a cheerless home
without her buoyant spirits, and her aunts could
scarcely have retired from their active duties
without forebodings of regret and ennui if they
had been deprived of the promise held out to
them of her sweet companionship. During their

life at Burnport she had been Aunt Hilda's
willing; slave, and it is doubtful whether she
would have got any time to herself at all, had it
not been for Joanna's constant interference. The
latter always kept her remonstrances for Miss
Hilda's private ear, for she had a great notion of
the fitness of things, and would never have
condescended to tout for an allegiance distinct
from that which Ursula, who had been brought
up in the same wholesome doctrine, paid equally
to both the sisters. The girl had no idea what
was the real casus belli underlying the domestic
scenes which she sometimes witnessed, and which
appeared to arise upon ridiculously trivial
grounds.

The last stitch had been put in the saint's
nose, and Ursula rose to go to bed.

Joanna had been sniffing impatiently for the
last quarter of an hour, and boiled over as soon
as she was left alone with her blinking senior.

How fagged the poor dear looks," she said
indignantly ; " it's a shame, Hilda, to try her
eyes with that tiresome patchwork when she has
been working at those cloths and things all the
morning in that cold room up-stairs," — and she
poked the fire viciously.

Miss Hilda threw off her drowsiness at the
first signal of this unprovoked aggression. " This
from you, Joanna, dearest ! " she said in a peevish

tone ; " as if she could be better employed than
in working for the parish ! Reading a book in
that selfish way, so that I can't hear a word,
does her eyes every bit as much harm ; and yet
when I'm not feeling very well, and don't get on
with our Saint's head as fast as I could wish, you
won't let her help me without talking as if it
was that was selfish and unkind."

*' Really, Hilda, you're enough to make St.
Guthlac turn in his grave ; " Aunt Joan was
standing by the mantel-piece unconsciously
brandishing the poker which she had not yet
laid down. '* I don't see what the parish has todo
with it; the parish doesn't want Ursula to
turn plain and old before her time. And as to
your being out of sorts, isn't that bad enough
without her being laid up as well ? Take some
castor oil, my dear, and you'll soon be better.
You ought not to take advantage of the child's
good heart in the way you do, Hilda ; there's
nothing to justify your shutting her up in
that stuffy room on a splendid morning. Don't
tell me St. Guthlac ever wanted to stunt
young people's growth ; he wasn't such a
vampire."

During the opening of this battery Miss Hilda
had been making her way in a stately progress
across the room. AVhen her sister stopped she
turned round with her hand on the door-handle,

and covered her retreat as only a veteran
strateo;ist can : —

If you speak like that, my dear, I must
leave the room." No exit could have been more
dignified and self-contained ; no other plan can
be half so successful in convincing an adversary
how hopelessly in the wrong he is.

Joanna looked at her watch, and smiled when
she saw that it was already five minutes past
Miss Hilda's normal bed-time. Then she became
aware of the poker, and placed it in the fender.
That done she walked up and down for a little
while, leaving ofi" at last to wipe her glasses,
which were moist.

'' It's very hard to do one's duty by some
people," she muttered, blowing out the candles,
and preparing to follow Miss Hilda.

CHAPTER 11.

ON THE SURFACE.

"We endeavour to get reputation by such faults as we determine
not to amend." — La Rochefoucault.

Everyone knows what a difference there is
between foreigners in the way they adapt themselves
to their strange surroundings. Some will
get accustomed to new manners, idioms, ideas,
with marvellous facility, and perhaps be talking
slang with the natives by the time that others —
starting under no greater disadvantage — are just
beginning to master the merest rudiments of the
language. It is related of a wandering Teuton
who once made an excursion to these shores fora
few weeks, that he carried back to the Fatherland
a singularly low opinion of the stage reached
by contemporary culinary art in England. '' I
liked the English people well enough," said he to
the compatriots by whom he was ' interviewed,'
"but the English meat, ah, no, I like it not."
This roused considerable curiosity, and he was

questioned minutely as to the grounds of his
objection to English meat ; " was it coarse, or
tough ? " " was it badly cooked ? " and so forth.
^' Ah, my good friends," he said at last, " you do
not understand. I got beef and mutton ; and
the meat is cooked ; that is all right. But I
always had to eat it cold ; and then, too, it was
inconvenient for me to wait, see you, at the
window of my lodging till I saw the purveyor
pass before I could have my dinner ; for they
sell it you in the open street, off little sticks.
Ah, heaven ! and it is not always fresh ! "

Frank Dalton bade fair to become a social
alien of this latter class. Hitherto he had shown
no capacity for adapting himself to the sphere in
which his lot was cast, and he was as foreign to
the old environment of his childhood as the poor
German was to his novel and temporary one.
Hans had his national life to fall back upon ; in
that, at any rate, he was thoroughly at home ;
but Frank was one of those unfortunate individuals
for whom Nature has no room at any of
her headquarters, and it seemed as though he
were fated to shuffle aimlessly through his part
in the great tragi-comedy, discontentedly munching
his daily allowance of cats-meat till soul and
body should dissolve partnership.

Twice a week he went over to Copesbury to
coach ' with Armitage. The clergyman had a

"certain amount of leisure during his residence
there, a luxury which he seldom or never tasted
in his own parish ; and though most of it was
swallowed up by work which he had voluntarily
undertaken in the poor quarter of the town, he
generously devoted the remainder to the herculean
task of inducing Frank to think. That
young gentleman had definitely given up all
intention of passing into Sandhurst. He now
contemplated matriculation at Oxford, — not,
indeed, with a view to any ulterior object, for he
was incapable of seeing more than the immediate
obstacle in his path ; that was his way of looking
at it. He did not even trouble himself about
the impediments which intervene between that
ordeal and the degree-day. Armitage once tried
to explain to him the curriculum through which
he would have to pass, but Frank gazed at him
absently, and paid no attention ; he never did.
It is extraordinary how plausible, — nay, how
meritorious, — a sentiment may sound when it is
in reality only held in order to cover a deficiency
in the holder.

One thing at a time is my notion," Frank
would say to his sister ; '^ what's he want to be
hurrying me on to something else for, I wonder ;
why, I don't know anything about this beastly
entrance exam, yet," which last remark was, of
course, undeniable ; only one is scarcely justified

in supposing that circumstances will always wait
in orderly single file, as young Dalton seemed to
expect, and never break out of line no matter
how long they are kept dangling for their turn.
On the contrary, we are often convinced in
rather an uncomfortable manner how limited
their docility really is.

Grace was not without a glimmering of this :
*' Hadn't you better look forward, and see what
you've got to do ? " sh said one day.

Look forward ! How you talk, Grace !
Brit I look forward ? Ain't I always looking
forward to this confounded matric, just as I
used to worry about the prelim, for Sandhurst ?
What good would have come of my thinking
about passing out of Sandhurst before Td got
in, I should like to know % "

'' Oh, I don't suppose anything would have
come of it," she replied ; " nothing came even of
your thinking only of the ' prelim', you know."
Frank snorted, and nearly knocked a vase off
the table.

"You're beastly unfair," he growled. ''I
only went in for the army to please you all, and
if I couldn't pass, it isn't my fault, is it ? "

His belief in his own blamelessness was
evidently so sincere that she had not the heart
to disabuse him of it, though she was at a loss
to know who else could be responsible.

"Well," she said, evading his question, "suppose
you go to Oxford, as you want to do, what
do you suppose that will lead to ? Or is it just
to pass the time pleasantly ? "

"Really, Grace, you're enough to drive a
fellow mad with your eternal nagging. Why, of
course it'll lead to something," he went on
petulantly ; "I can turn lawyer, doctor, parson,

anything, can't I ? I'm not going to settle

what I'm going to be all in a hurry, you know,
in spite of you and the parson. Can't I look
about me a bit first without your flying; out at
me with your stupid, inquisitive questions ? If
the worst comes to the worst, the guv'nor can
get me into some business or other, trust him."

Grace said nothing more, but only bent her
head over her rebels, in what Frank considerately
inferred to be a fit of the sulks. He got
up from his chair, lounged to the window, and
stood there, looking vacantly out at nothing.
After a little while he began to whistle, the
sound becoming shriller and more disturbing ashe
proceeded. Pausing suddenly in the middle
of a melody more popular than refined, he drew
one of his hands from its pocket, and leisurely
examined his watch, — a favourite habit with
lazy people. Then it suddenly occurred to him
that some kittens were to be drowned that
morning ; so he loafed ofi" to the stables in the

hope that lie might not be too late for this
diversion.

The next day Frank started soon after breakfast
on one of his visits to Copesbmy. He went
straight to the Close, and then followed a couple
of hours' drudgery — for Armitage.

His pupil had no idea of application, and his
eyes were off the book the moment the clergyman
turned away. Frank required the unremitting
attention of three or four masters ; it
was impossible to make anything of him single-handed.
Luncheon always found them with
tempers somewhat chafed and irritable, but no
farther advanced in respect of the work to be
done than when they began. They were both
glad when the meal was over, and they were
released from the unmitigated boredom of each
other's society.

It's no good," mused Armitage, after every
repetition of this farce, *the fellow will never
do any more in school than out, and 1 must give
him up, the incorrigible young muff."

However, when it came to the point, the
letter to Mr. Dalton which he had so often projected,
always remained unwritten, and he had
persevered with his forlorn hope till Frank's last
visit had been paid, and another scheme for his
improvement ended in inevitable failure. It
was the third week in December, and Armitage

had made arrangements to be back at Bm-field
by Christmas Day. Arnold was to be at
Oakleigh then, and there was to be a Large
party at his house that evening, at which the
clergyman had promised to be present. He was
anxious not to injure Frank's interests with his
father, and resolved to talk the matter over
with Eobur, as a friend of the family, before
communicating his own despondency to them.
I won't spoil their Christmas, at any rate, if
I can help it," he thought.

Meanwhile, the subject of these meditations
was making the best of his way to the Cope-house,
where it was his custom to spend the
afternoon before returning home. He was
seldom asked to account for the way in which
he had passed the day, and as Mr. Dalton's
duties on the Board of a Company carried him
off to London every Wednesday to the following
Friday, Frank had fixed those days for his visits
to Armitage, and was free to stay at Copesbury
till the last train, if he was so disposed, on a
Wednesday.

Under Mr. Rock's fostering care the acquaintanceship,
which had been so opportunely inaugurated,
had now developed into a warmer
intimacy, as was proved by the endearing
epithets which lent their soft charm to this
beautiful union between the inexperience of

VOL. II. D

youth and the sober maturity of age. There
is no influence to be compared to that of the
preceptors whom we elect to follow for ourselves.
Frank's nominal tutor did not know what he
was fighting against when he undertook the
boy's education, and the veteran of the bookshop,
heavily handicapped as he was at the
start, was soon beating his clerical opponent all
round the course. Hiram for his part found
no lack of pliability to complain of in his young
friend ; far from it. " The way you set about
it is the secret of educational success, sir," he
was saying to a certain colleague of his, when
he spied young Dalton's advancing figure under
the gate which led into the Close.

I'll go up-stairs," said this person, who was
no other than Edwards, "and then we can have
him all to ourselves."

Frank darted into the shop with a clatter ;
in that atmosphere he was a different being from
his ordinary listless self.

"Halloa! father Hiram, ain't I glad to see
your old mug after the sickening stick-jaw I've
been swallowing all this cursed morning."

Mr. Rock nodded and smiled in his most
amiable manner.

What a young gent it is ! " said he, apostrophising
the surrounding books, which rudely
kept their backs turned on him ; '' storms inhere,

reeling off sarcasms to his humble friend
like a lord. Ah, my dear Mr. Dalton, I've got
a treat in store for you to-day," and he rubbed
his hands as Frank seated himself on the
counter, and drummed his heels against it.

What sort of treat, Hiram ? " he demanded ;
you don't mean to say you've got Duke Devils-buttons
for me at last, or the Confessions of a
Duenna ? Now then, let's hear all about it."

The bookseller, however, feigning to be engrossed
with the ledger in front of him, his
visitor was constrained to reach over, and tap
him on the shoulder with his cane.

Eh, what ? " said Mr. Rock, starting ; '' Oh,
ah, yes, such a treat, dear boy, — that is, sir.
It's not Devilsbuttons either, or the Duenna ;
better than that," and he returned to the ledger.

Frank was fuming with impatient curiosity
when the sound of a martial blast proceeding
from the upper regions made him jump off the
counter, and go to the foot of the stairs. Mr.
Rock disclosed the roof of his mouth, as was his
pleasant habit when amused, and rose from his
chair.

Found out at last," he cried, moving towards
his young friend ; " you're warm, sir,
you're grilling, by Jingo. Don't give it up ;
you ought to guess my little riddle now. Who
d'ye think's up-stairs, eh ? "

D 2

"Not Captain Mack?" said Frank in an
excited whisper.

Captain Mack it is," returned the other
triumphantly ; '' come up and see him," and heled
the way to the presence of that distinguished
and gallant officer.

The Captain was seated by the fire with his
back to the light, in Mr. Rock's comfortable but
not over-clean reception-room. He was smoking
a long churchwarden, and extended his hand
with a well-bred air to the youngster. Frank
took it, blushing awkwardly. He was not of an
observing nature, but on this occasion he was
unusually interested, and he could not help
noticing the stranger's wiry and athletic build.
The man's face did not make so clear an impression
on him. There was, indeed, nothing
very remarkable about it except a strange expression
of vigilance which it occasionally wore,
and changes of this sort were too subtle for the
young gentleman's perception. Besides, the
light which came through the dingy window
behind the Captain's chair was not strong
enough to make any object in the room very
distinct. What there was fell on Frank as he
took his seat on the opposite side of the fireplace.


Tf you hadn't blown your nose in that
terrific way, my warrior," said their host-his

voice coming indeed from the interior of a
cupboard, where he \yas searching for something,
'' Air. Dalton would never have guessed who I'd
got stowed away up here, and I should have had
the pleasure of breaking it to him gradually"'

Proud, I'm sure," said the person thus addressed,
"that any trifling ailment of mine
should have hastened the acquaintance for me
of a young gentleman of spirit about whom you
have told me so much. It's an ill nose, sir, that
blows nobody any good"'

'■ Well, you're both known to each other by
reputation," remarked Mr. Rock, when they had
all laughed at this pleasantry ; '•' you're just the
identical pair to get on together, and I take
considerable credit to myself for arranging this
meeting round my poor but honest fender"'

The excellent bookseller did not deviate from
the strictest veracity when he said these words.
His absent colleague had been the theme of
assiduous eulogies on his part as often as his
young friend paid him a visit, till the young
friend's curiosity regarding the hero of these
romances had been worked tip to the pitch of
frenzy, and he had clamoured eao-erlv for a
chance of meeting the redoubtable Mack. Then
Mr. Rock had town dubious whether this could
be managed, had spoken of the vortex of
fashionable dissipation in which the Captain was

constantly plunged, darkly hinting at his various
intrigues, especially some particular complications
arising out of a liaison with a certain lady
of title, and had insinuated his despair of effecting
the object of his young friend's ambition
unless events should take an unexpected turn.

And this, of course, we cannot rely on," he
had proceeded. " Supposing, however, that the
affairs I have mentioned turn out unfavourably,
and compel my friend to leave London for a
while, I have reason to believe that he may seek
refuge from his enemies with me down here, —
an unsuspicious sort of hiding-place for so distinguished
a person ; and then you can have
your wish, Mr. Dalton, as long as you promise
to keep your own counsel about the matter.
You may be sure I shall be glad to see the
Captain again, as I've not clapped eyes on him
for years, though we keep up corresponding
pretty regularly. Ah, times have changed since
I first came across him in New York society,
before I had my come-down in the world'

Frank never pressed his venerable instructor
on the delicate subject of his reverses, and was
quite satisfied with such explanation of his
former career as this and similar vague allusions
afforded.

"This breaks the last half-dozen of the port
left me by the old Marquis of Sidon," observed

Mr. Rock, hastily scratching a label off the
cob webbed bottle which he had just uncorked,
and slipping it into his pocket. " Dear me,
dear me ; the line's extinct now When shall
we look upon its like again ? "

This question remained unanswered, it being a
little doubtful to what the worthy Hiram referred.
If it was the ancestry of the deceased nobleman
that was in his mind, the subject could have possessed
no greater interest for his hearers than if
he had made the same reflection concerning: the
genealogical tree of Aeneas of Troy. If, on the
other hand, he was thinking of the wine, the
landlord of 'the Cope and Mitre " could probably
have furnished him with the precise terms on
which a definite answer to his inquiry w-as possible.
Captain Mack preserving a discreet silence,
and Frank not as yet numbering a taste for port
among his accomplishments, Hiram was forced to
forego the satisfaction of a reply. After filling
their glasses as well as his own, he lit his pipe, —
an operation which Frank had performed for
himself — and called upon the Captain to declare
whether there were not some name or sentiment
more privileged than another to claim the honour
of their first toast. " For," he added, looking at
Frank as he spoke, "we are all friends here."

Sir," replied his elder guest, removing the
pipe-stem from between his lips, '' I accept your

generous sympathy, and am willing to repose
confidence where it is so highly deserved."

Woe be to the man or woman who betrays
yoiil'' put in Mr. Rock parenthetically.

I will not say you are wrong, sir," returned
the other ; " I do not wish to boast, but I will
not undertake the responsibility of alleging that
there is no foundation for what you say. Blood
and bones ! " he exclaimed, " I know of no more
fitting toast on this happy occasion than ^ death
to the deceiver,' " and he drained his glass, and
held it out.

They all drank this cheerful sentiment enthusiastically,
and when the glasses were set
down again Hiram's was the only one which had
anything left in it. Frank was beginning to feel
the noble emulation which the society of choice
spirits often stimulates, and longed to distinguish
himself before Mack. The life led by such a august
be worth living ; how different he was from
the strait-laced tyrants with whom he was compelled
to pass an embittered existence, — people
of his father's stamp like Armitage and Eobur.
The mere thought of Arnold aggravated his rebellious
mood. His father's ward had always been
held up as example to his father's son, and this
was a grievance which Frank had sworn never to
forget or forgive. Though he had seen scarcely
anything of Robur for the last two years, he still

nursed his old animosity, and would have regarded
it as a point of honour to injure the man who had
unintentionally offended him, if an opportunity
of doings was to occur. It never entered his
head to reflect that his unconscious foe was not
to be blamed for the circumstances which had
brought them so much together at Beau Sejour.
If the elder Dalton had injudiciously crammed
his ward's virtues down his son's throat, any one
with a sense of justice — to say nothing of generosity
— would not have considered that to be
Arnold's fault, though it might be his misfortune.
But Frank was neither just nor generous. His
dislike remained, as such violent prejudices will,
and it had lately been intensified by two circumstances.
One was the simple fact that Arnold
had returned from abroad, and been received
with open arms as the squire of Oakleigh. Here
was reasonable cause for jealousy, so Frank's evil
genius told him. Was modest merit to go
tamely to the wall at the swaggering behest of
any fellow, just because he happened to have been
born to the possession of his acres, like a few
rustic ancestors before him, instead of paying
down for his property in honest cash of the realm 1
Why should the miserly, psalm-singing young
squire rank before Mr. Dalton junior, for instance,
the son of a gentleman who had earned his wealth
fairly in business, — more, perhaps, than could be

said of the original Eobur, if the truth were only
known — and could now in his retirement afford
to lay out twice as much on his house and grounds
as the impecunious fleeting at Oakleigh, for all
his airs ? It was a monstrous piece of iniquity.

But there was another reason for his perverse
hatred of Arnold, — in every sense of the word a
better, though an equally groundless one. Frank
had a suspicion that Grace was fond of Arnold,
and fancied that he had encouraged her affection
without really caring for her. Put into plain
language that was his opinion. But though he
could not have endured Arnold as a brother-in-law,
and was determined to construe whatever
the other did as a personal affront if possible,
there was yet a grain of brotherly love in this
hallucination, unreasonable as it was, which must
be allowed to be a conspicuous set-off in a character
so poor in redeeming elements as Frank's.

Mr. Rock invited his guests to let the bottle
circulate freely, pointing to a couple more which
were standing in a corner.

My boy will mind the shop till closing time'*
said he; *you see, I like to make a business of
my pleasure. Things haven't been going smoothly,
Mack, my boy, eh ? "

Damn it, no, sir," responded the captain.
The such — , Eulalie, I mean, has gone off and
left me in the lurch, and I haven't even had the

pleasure of putting my sword through the body
of the infernal scoundrel who's gone with her."

Can't you hunt them out ? " inquired Hiram.

What would be the use ? Her friends would
soon find out if I was after her, and let her
know. Besides, the dog would refuse my challenge
if I where to horsewhip him for it in the
street. It's no use, my friend, fortune has no
more respect for warriors than for cowards," and
Mack sucked away at his pipe with a despondent
groan.

'' An Alexander ! " cried Mr. Rock, " sio;hinsc
because he can't find anything more to conquer."

Oh, I don't despair," said the other. *' Some
day I shall find my man, and stick him. I'm not
going to let an old score like that stand over for
nothing ; and the longer he leaves it the harder
it will be for him to pay the interest."

A noble resolve, my champion ; we'll open
another bottle on the strength of it," was Hiram's
genial comment. " Ah, Mr. Dalton," he continued,
waving his corkscrew dangerously near that promising
individual's open countenance, " it's an
awful thing to fall foul of one of these military
swells. Why, I shouldn't wonder if the captain
hadn't killed as many men on his own account
since he left the service as he did all the time he
was fighting for his country."

Frank hereupon mustered up courage to ask if

that experienced fire-eater would favour them
with a few' details about his numerous duels.

Captain Mack waved his hand in deprecation
of this flattery.

'^ Very good of you to press me, gentlemen'
he said, for Hiram was adding his entreaties to
those of his young friend, '' but you would only
be disappointed. Every officer in the service hasa
checkered career to tell of by the time he has
worn his uniform a score of years, and mine has
nothing peculiar about it ; oh dear no."

He listened indulgently while his companions
renewed their efforts to overcome his modest
reserve. After some further coy resistance on his
part, and many earnest adjurations on theirs, he
yielded with knightly simplicity, begging them
not to throw the blame upon him if the result
did not equal their expectations.

I will describe an incident in the early part
of my intrigue for the hand of the lady whom I
have already mentioned," he began, refilling his
pipe ; " the few adventures which have befallen
me have always sprung from some affair of the
heart, and I have no doubt it will be so till that
useful piece of mechanism ceases to beat. It is
now two years ago that I first met Eulalie, — m?/
Eulalie I used to call her then — at Barcelona. I
was living there at the time, having sold out
of the army several years previously. We had

often met on the promenade that runs tL rough
the fashionable quarter, — the gay, the exquisite
Rambla ; shall I ever forget it ! and knew each
other well by sight, therefore, when a common
friend took me to her lose at the theatre, and
sealed my misery by making us personally acquainted.
After that I was a frequent visitor at
her house in the Plaza Real. I got to know her
habits, and when she went out to parties I
generally contrived to get invited too, my circle
of friends being almost co-extensive with her
own. It was summer-time, and on fine evenings
she would mingle with the merry throng on the
sea-wall. Heaven, what hours have I wasted
tracing up and down the broad causeway, looking
for a sign of her statuesque form ! Such symmetry
and proportion were hers that she might
have made a fortune as a sculptor's model,
begad ! " The Captain broke off here to replenish
his glass, and his auditors implored him to
continue his fascinating recital.

' Barcelona is a lovely spot he proceeded,
courteously acceding to their importunity : its
population at the last census, — however, I won't
trouble you with that."

At this juncture Mr. Rock, who was happily
imbibing his port wine, suddenly choked, and the
anecdote was again suspended, much to Frank's
annoyance. He sprang up, and administered

several severe pats on the back to his venerable
preceptor, who, with the drops of the generous
fluid trickling off the end of his nose, presented
no very impressive spectacle.

That'll do," he gasped, as soon as his symptoms
began to succumb to this vigorous treatment;
^^go on, Ed— Mack."

The Captain resumed the thread of his narrative.
" We left off," he said, ''' at the — oh yes,
I remember. Meetings in the charming gardens
of Barcelona, varied by occasional picnics at
some place in the neighbouring hills, became of
almost every-day occurrence. It was at one of
our more distant excursions that I first became
aware of the presence of a rival competitor for
the favour of the adorable Eulalie. At first I
thought little of it, and I will tell you why.
The mistress of my affections had an ingenious
device of silently informing me how I stood
with her, whenever we met over the dinner-table.
At that season stone fruit always made
its appearance at one or other of the courses,
and, under whatever form, she could never
resist its luscious temptation. One day she
told me that she had invented a kind of private
telegraphic code by which to communicate her
feelings regarding me without attracting the
attention of others. ' You must always contrive
to get seated where you can see the stones

upon my plate, Edgar do,' said she, — the
heartless jade never called me by any other
name than Edward ; and, like a fool, I really
thought it meant something. Well, her plan
was to put out an even number of stones on to
her plate when she was pleased with me, and
an odd number when I was in disgrace. I've
often wondered since what she did when she
had one more than she wanted. I don't believe
she would have swallowed a peach-stone for any
man alive. Things went straight enough fora
while, — I counted even numbers night after
night. However, my luck was not to last, and
after my rival appeared upon the scene at one
of our picnics it turned dead against me. Soon
there was a fatal regularity about the unfavourable
auspices which I was forced to recognize in
her plate ; our intercourse lost its old unconventional
freedom, and we no longer put Spanish
propriety to the blush with our gay pranks
and festive escapades. By and by her signals
stopped altogether — even the sort I dreaded.
Driven to desperation, I tortured my brain to
discover the cause of her ominous coldness.
I knew well enough that nothings but the most
cogent reason could induce her to forswear her
favourite viands ; and as there was no cholera
at Barcelona then, I could think of but one
malady to account for her strange abstinence, —

that villain — an Italian Count the fellow called
himself — had stolen my Eulalie's heart away
from me, its rightful lord. But I was patient,
and determined to give her time to amend.
Meanwhile, my unconscious acts of rudeness,
occasioned by my secret torment, disgusted all
my friends, and they began to openly avoid
me. For instance, in my anxiety to see
whether Eulalie would still persevere in her
faithlessness, I used to jostle other people out
of the way in order to sit near her at the
dinner parties at which I was gradually becoming
less and less welcome. Sometimes I
would desert the partner to whom I had been
assigned, and secure a vacant chair without
respect to the age or sex of the person who
ought really to have occupied it. Then I
would snatch the menu out of my neighbour's
hand, and glare wildly at it, with my hand
pressed on my racking brow, to see how long
I should have to wait before the fruit came.
Naturally some foolish people were scandalised,
and I got the reputation of being indecently
fond of the pleasures of the table ; but little I
cared for their odious aspersions, as long as I
could keep my eye on every morsel which
passed my lady's dainty lips. All dinner-time
my conversation would be disjointed and pointless,
and as the critical moment approached, my

back would often, I fear, be turned upon the
most accomplished blandishments that were
ever practised by Spain's fairest hidalgos to
captivate a poor devil.

At last one night at a masked ball I felt
that my time had come, and that procrastination
was no longer possible. I marked down
the Count in spite of his disguise, and from a
safe place of concealment saw him make
straight for Eulalie. I watched them dance
together, and when they disappeared, I tracked
them to a curtained alcove, standing motionless
behind the hanorinors, while the traitor declared
his vile, calculating love. He paused, expecting
the lady's answer, and I could bear it no more.
With a well-directed kick from under the
hanging, which hid all of me but my foot
from their sight, I sent the viper reeling into
her lap, and leaving them both a huddled mass
upon the floor, stalked invisibly away. Next
day I tossed my challenge through his open
window, and we met before the sun went down.
I never decline a civility, and when the fellow
offered me his snufi'-box before we ensfaofed I
suspected nothing, and politely accepted it,
supposing the ceremony to be a national
custom. It was fortunate, however, that I
was not addicted to the elegant folly, and so
took a very cautious whiff" of the mixture.

VOL. II. E

Even that caused me to turn giclcly and faint
so suddenly, that I had only just time to scent
treachery, and jerk the entire contents of the
box in his face with my elbow, before I fell
prostrate on the sward. You may be sure I
didn't fall alone. The wretch's dastardly attempt
to disable and then murder me at his
leisure recoiled upon himself, and I recovered
my faculties considerably before he did. I
could not resist kicking his recumbent body as
I left the ground, for there was no question of
his fighting that day. The worst part of the
whole business was that on my going to enquire
after him at his residence later, it turned out
that the rascal had fled, and I was baulked of
my first chance of drawing blood in my
Eulalie's cause ; and now I've lost the second, '^
added the Captain in a tone expressive of the
deepest chagrin.

Frank had finished his third glass, and looked
flushed and excited when Mack ended his story.

'' Bravo ! Captain," cried he, reaching out an
unsteady hand for the bottle ; " beastly rough on
you, though, I mus' say." Mr. Rock helped him
to the wine, and getting upon his feet he went
on : — " Gentlemen, let me propose another health,
here's to my speedy revenge upon R."

Why, how am I to know that isn't me ? "
asked Hiram, with a gesture of dismay.

Well, it ain't you," replied Frank impatiently
; " look here, 111 say A. R. ; will that
suit you better ? "

As long as it isn't H. R. you're going to be
revenged upon, I don't mind who else it is, my
dear young gent," observed Mr. Rock, while
Frank gulped down his portion, and flung the
empty glass into the fireplace, laughing noisily at
his performance.

After this climax had been reached the company
soon broke up ; Mr. Rock was summoned
down stairs, and Frank went home. If he had
remained he would certainly have got drunk ; as
it was, the change to the open air came in time
to prevent more serious consequences than a dull
headache.

Left to themselves, Messrs. Rock and Edwards
testified to their satisfaction each in his own way.

*' Lucky find, that old map of Barcelona in
your shop, eh ? " said Edwards, after a period of
silent satisfaction interspersed with occasional
inward chuckles. " I flatter myself I made
artistic use of that local colouring ; gives an air of
reality to the thing, and whets the imagination."

Excellent ! my boy," approved Mr. Rock :
your playing the fool, though, as you did once
or twice, was almost too much for me."

It didn't matter a scrap ; he was too fuddled
to suspect there was anything wrong. I expect

UNIVERSITY OF

A. R.' will hear from him after this," and the
speaker hugged himself.

We can never be too grateful for the glorious
fluke that brought the young soft-head floundering
round my hook," remarked the bookseller
piously ; " but we shall have to prime him up a
bit more before the thing works out, depend
upon it ; and you must stay on here over
Christmas. You've got nothing better to do,
and are not likely to risk anything by hanging
round for a while longer to keep matters
straight."

Suspicious people defeat their own ends.
Edward told his accomplice that he had got a
notion for disposing of the ring safely, but
neither of them seemed to see that their only
chance of effecting this with anything approaching
security lay in sending it back immediately
to its owner, together with a true account of how
it came into their possession. Being naturally
as honest and straightforward as they were secret
and wary he would probably have accepted their
explanation without hesitating, in spite of the
somewhat startling coincidence of the futile
burglary at Oakleigh. But they were bent upon
voluntarily incurring dangers quite out of proportion
to those which they had been so careful
to avoid, and recklessly courted the temptation
to commit fresh blunders in the future.

Consistent roguery is a difficult part to play :
there is considerable annual mortality among the
too sanguine aspirants to its rewards. The firm
would have done better had it remained true to
its old programme of sound retail transactions,
instead of embarking on this new field of speculation.
Most of us make indifferent whips when
we take the reins of destiny into our own ambitious
hands. Once set the wheels rolling under
us, and we may find it impossible ever to pull up
aofain before the car is wrecked.

CHAPTER III.

My mistress' eyes are nothing like the sun ;
Coral is far more red than her lips' red :
Ii snow be white, why then her breasts are dun ;
If hairs be wires, black wires grow on her head.
I have seen roses damask, red and white,
But no such roses see I in her cheeks ;
And in some perfumes is there more delight
Than in the breath that from my mistress reeks.
I love to hear her speak, yet well I know
That music hath a far more pleasing sound ;
I grant I never saw a goddess go ; —
My mistress, when she walks, treads on the ground ;
And yet, by heaven, I think my love as rare
As any she belied with false compare."

Shakespeare.

Tantivy, you precious pair, come for your
walk."

It was Ursula who spoke ; and the two dogs,
answering to a single name, leaped from their
respective baskets in her pretty boudoir, — or
studio, as its mistress preferred to call it, — and
hastened downstairs to the front door which
Aunt Joan was already opening.

We all IvDOW what happens when we *^ give a
dog a bad name," so it may be necessary to
justify the terriers' unusual but judicious appellation.
The first syllable, then, was appropriate
to the handsomely-marked complexion of the
more sedate and sober animal ; while his brother,
in case he might feel aggrieved by some suspicion
of partiality in this otherwise baseless precedence,
was compensated in the fairest manner possible
with two syllables to his name instead of one.
In spite of the hilarious ring of their title, which
was not without an apt correspondence in their
natures, they always restrained the exuberance
of their spirits indoors, each being perfectly aware
that it was as much as his place was worth to
trifle with Miss Hilda's staid and decorous prejudices.
Their demeanour changed, however,
directly they were in the open air ; and they
frisked round the two ladies, or ran races with
each other, keeping Ursula in a simmer of mirth.

They passed through the garden without
meeting Arnold. Joanna had half a mind to call
at the hotel and ask him to take them out for a
sail, but she refrained from mentioning the subject
to her companion, and they walked on
towards the old town.

Burnport was filling. So many people came
there to enjoy the advantages of sea air out of
the season, that the parade looked quite crowded

as they passed along it. The town band, " a
thriving and popular institution," was performing
its liveliest dance music, while an unusual display
of the triumphs of millinery lent its own irresistible
air of elegance and refinement to the
scene, making it unnecessary to look in the shop-windows,
as Aunt Joan remarked.

And those are the sort of people they want
to let vote," she said as they distanced a rouged
and powdered dowager attended by a pair of
daughters, the colour of whose hair contrasted ina
marked manner with that of their complexions.

"What an imprudent Aunt Joan you are,"
whispered Ursula in reply, for they were within
ear-shot of these three Graces when Miss Joanna
vented her indignation. *' Don't you think," she
went on, *that some girls might have been a
little more sensible if they had been allowed to
take an interest in public affairs ? Why, you
know how you often like to talk to me about
what is in the paper, and what splendid fights
wee have over it sometimes."

Aunt Joan sniffed impatiently : " It's a good
thing your Aunt Hilda isn't here, Ursula, or
she'd take you for a female Montague ; and it's
much worse for a woman to be a ' Red-hot
Radical ' than for a man, my dear."

Well, I don't know what I am, and we
haven't walked far enough to make me red-hot

yet, at any rate," answered the girl with a merry
smile ; " but you don't think there's any real
harm, Aunt Joan, in our taking an interest in as
many things as possible, do you ? "

'^ That depends on the sort of interest you take.
Women who don't marry, and have to support
themselves, must take to something to keep out
of the workhouse, I suppose. Your Aunt and. I
took to keeping a school, and of course I don't
see any harm in that."

But it surely wasn't just to keep out of the
workhouse that you worked so hard," pleaded
Ursula. ''I mean, you would have taken up
something — not education, perhaps — just the
same if you had not been obliged to earn money,
wouldn't you ? "

I'm sure I can't say, my dear," replied Miss
Joanna, ruminating. " Hilda might have done
so ; directly she was set free she took to good
works, and all that sort of thing. But I'm a
lazy creature, and don't do anything now. Why,
I'm actually more than lazy, — I'm quite a dog in
the manger, you know ; for I often wish she
wouldn't busy herself as she does."

Nonsense ! Aunt Joan ; you do a heap of
things. You read, and play, and you would have
drawn a great deal better than I ever shall if you
had had time to attend to it. Besides, you manage
the house, and look after the tradespeople."

Well, of course I do, Ursula. But every one
has to do that for themselves to some extent, soit
can t count in my case. Now I'll tell you
what I think about it. Women ought to work
in a womanly way, and not attempt to caricature
men ; they should be above emulating the male
portion of humanity any more in their talk, or
thought, or actions, than in the dress they wear.
There are some things men can do better than
women, and other things women can do better
than men. Very well, then ; let each sex mind
its own business — surely there's no lack of work
for both of them to do, eh ? "

Ursula's assent to this last proposition was
somewhat qualified : " There ought to be enough,
at any rate. Aunt Joan."

There is, my dear, there is," returned Joanna
earnestly. '' If folks sit still with arrears of work
staring them in the face, and make up their
minds to do nothing but grumble just because
they would prefer another occupation which is
not really adapted to them, I'm not going to
waste any sympathy upon 'em."

Not if they neglect what they ought to do
for something less important," replied Ursula, an
eager flush suffusing her whole face as she put
her arm through Joanna's ; " but that isn't
exactly what I meant. Suppose a woman
happens to have very few of these simple,

straightforward duties, and finds that she has a
good deal of spare time after performing them,
you wouldn't refuse to let her try the experiment
of undertaking a new occupation for herself only
because men had been beforehand, and succeeded
in it first, would you. Aunt Joan, dear ? "

They walked on a little way, and halting at
the barrier where the sea-wall came to an end,
stood still to lean upon it and rest ; they had left
the fashionable lounge far behind them now, and
there was no one near but a few sturdy little
urchins, fishermen's children, playing on the
beach below.

I won't say what I might do in any particular
case," resumed Joanna, '' but I fancy that
if women were at all inclined generally to act as
you say there would soon be a most disagreeable
and dangerous rivalry between them and men.
No, my dear, depend upon it that, married or
unmarried, women are not intended to use their
power openly, however great it may secretly be.
Where have I read — in some poet, I think — that
women should not be so foolish as ' to osier war
where they should kneel for peace ' ? And then
he goes on to say something about our bodily
weakness being a sign that we are not intended
to take a prominent part in the world. We
should break clown under the exertion, you
know. Just think what the House of Commons

would be with a lot of irreconcilable ladies
below the gangway. Why, I shouldn't wonder
if not a single pair of female M.p's would ever begot
to agree on any public matter whatever, but
would rather go off into hysterics first."

Ursula was amused at this unflattering picture ;
there was no more resemblance to what is technically
known as the " woman of mind " in her
than in her Aunt. At the same time she was
inclined to think that Miss Joanna's way of
looking at the question was scarcely impartial,
though her charity made great amends for her
predilections.

** Well, but the same argument would have
kept women back in the place they occupied in
old heathen times," the girl remonstrated, soon
becoming serious again. " If they had always
been afraid of seeming to rival men they would
have remained to this day the common household
drudges they once were."

'* I don't believe they were all exactly that
in most ancient States," remarked Joanna, " and
some English women are not much better off
now. But even supposing our condition has
improved as much as you think, we owe it all
to Christianity, and I don't believe in trying to
improve any further on the position it has given
us. We have since held an influence over the
lords of creation which it is our right and our

duty to maintain and exercise, but not to extend
or misuse." (Aunt Joan evidently regarded the
two last expressions as almost synonymous.)
*' I don't supposes she went on, " that a man
can have any more valuable possession than the
influence of a good woman ; the best men are
always ready to acknowledge its recklessness.
Solomon did so, and we have more liberty of
action than the women of his day. Well, my
dear, I believe our sphere of usefulness has
already been enlarged as much as is possible
without running great risk. If we set to work
to usurp more influence than this, be sure we
shall forfeit that which has been ours so long."

This announcement of Joanna's convictions
clenched the argument. Ursula saw that no
good would come from pursuing it further, and
though she did not pretend to be convinced,
began to talk about something else. In the
afternoon she went to her room to paint, and
when the light waned, and she was forced to lay
down the brush, her thoughts wandered back to
the conversation of the morning.

Why should women lessen their influence by
enlarging their experience ? This puzzled her.
I wonder what sort of women influence men
most ? " she thought, — a crucial test this, if
only it could be carried out, and a Royal Commission
armed with full powers to frame a return

based upon trustworthy statistics. Perhaps the
first difficulty attendant on such an inquiry
would be the selection and description of the
male objects of any influence save that of impulse
or pocket. For in the spiritual union of souls a
man is incapable of being thus acted upon unless
he is conscious of something beyond his carnal
circumstances. He may indeed be disturbed by
stray specimens of femineity crossing his path, —
and what man is entirely cut off from the society
of the more numerous sex ? He may be held or
goaded to his destruction by female artifice and
the fatal ascendancy which he has too easily
yielded to it. The Sirens and the Furies were
not more terrible than the progeny to whom their
ghoulish trade has descended. So it has been, and
must always be till men unite to be the pioneers
of womanhood's triumphant progress, and make
smooth paths for chastity and innocence to
walk in.

But Ursula knew nothing of these things ; her
anxiety was to solve the simple problem, What
does a good man love and reverence in a woman ?
Can it be her ignorance of the world of Nature,
and her consequent inability to do more than
dabble miserably in Art ? Is it her vacuity on
every abstract topic, her inhuman callousness to
the infinitude of unspeakable emotions, ideas,
impressions, sympathies, which well forth, an

inexhaustible flood, in every developed mind,
making it the sure index of preceding ages, the
epitome of a deathless future ?

Our mortal parts may wrapt in cere-cloths lie :
Great spirits never with their bodies die."

Such spirits can be but feebly held within the
sickly bounds of flesh even while their nominal
subjection to its laws remains. Elysium's limitless
expanse is spread continually before their
roving gaze ; they are possessed by a craving
that may not be quenched for the cheer of those
eternal pastures ; they are supported by their
anticipation of the hospitality of Heaven. Nor
is it to be thought of that they should take as
human participants in these holy mysteries any
whose joys and sorrows do not extend further
than the larders and pig troughs of their narrow
concrete associations. Shall those whose veins
have begun to flow with purifying ichor stain
their new-gotten nobility — the most illustrious
of patents, for all that — by intermixture with a
baser and thinner fluid ? Wise men read a deeper
meaning; in the miracle at Cana than this, and
would taste the rich wine of marriage sheer, or
not at all. Certainly there are women whose
merits shine so conspicuous that their dull wit
or mental incapacity is all but effaced, merits
to which the highest honour that men can pay
is poor and incommensurate with their desert.

Many are the meek and quiet souls whom menin
their frowardness have despised and wronged,
yes, and whose memory they have lived, perhaps,
to cherish tenderly. Such figures must be
familiar guests at most firesides, the angels whose
blessed shadows darken unawares the doorways
of our homes. And yet our love, when it is
not withheld from these simple comforters, can
scarcely be attracted by, but rather in spite of,
their defects. Why should disparity in intellect
be considered no serious obstacle to matrimony,
when disparity in virtue is recognized as leading
to a ruinous result ? A wife's influence over her
husband must indeed be small if she is unable
to appreciate the objects of his sincerest attention,
if she must resign the matronly office of administering
the intelligent solace and encouragement
needed to brace him for his highest
endeavours, and yield to others the noble duty
which she is not qualified to perform. Joanna
Blunsden had a comforting doctrine that men
and women are conveniently provided with
natures complementary to each other, and to
hear her discuss this theory one would have
supposed that mutual contradiction was the
safeguard of the married state. But whatever
grain of truth there may have been in her speculations,
there never was a more preposterous
paradox than that of imagining any real antipathy

to be essential to the unity of a wedded
pair. The expression of such an opinion too
often leads to the belief that the larger half of
creation ouo-ht to stand still while the stronger
inevitably extends its landmarks. Happily, however,
for the existence of the human race this
prejudice does not operate universally. Emigrants,
when they go out to search for new
lands, and improved chances of bread-winning,
do not leave their help-meets to starve in the
old country ; and some day men and women will
perceive the suicidal inconsistency of not carrying
out the same principle in other matters.

It is difficult to translate one's own thoughts
into words sometimes, and the difficulty of doing
so for other people is proportionately greater.
The interpretation here essayed, therefore, mayor
may not correctly embody the upshot of
Ursula's reverie ; and those of her friends who
do not hold with such sentiments are not in the
least bound to attribute them to her. She had
her faults, to be sure, but self-assertion was not
one of them, nor did she regard her own opinion
as anything especially remarkable, or worth
having. On the other hand, she was not prim ;
her character was not without that strain of
wayward abandon w^hicli is part of the peculiarity
of youth, and of which Aunt Joan herself retained
a considerable share. If there was any quality in

VOL. II. F

Ursula to prevent her from being either insipid
or forward it was her pride ; for she was proud.
She used to shock other girls of her acquaintance
by often openly declining to accept their dogmas
on the mere strength of parental or fraternal
authority. They gradually got used to such
treatment, however, and pitied Ursula without
being angry with her ; for her differences from
them were never expressed in an intentionally
irritating way. Her strange pride had shown
itself in her school-days by making her indifferent
to the opinions of her companions regarding herself.
She had thus become more popular with
the younger than with the elder children, and as
she never bestirred herself to make a friend of
her own age and standing she never made one.
Here, again, her pride kept her from self-reproach.
If other people won't take to me on my own
merits, I won't force myself upon them ; " this
was the consolation she was in the habit of
repeating when her head was on her pillow, and
she was safe from interruption. Perhaps, had
any of those among her schoolfellows with whom
she was least of all a favourite surprised her as
she lay there awake, her hands clenched, and her
lips tightly compressed to keep down the instinct
which bids all young creatures look outward for
support, they might have swallowed their natural
resentment at her independent behaviour, and

generously forgotten their hasty dislike of the
determined little person. But this never happened,
and Aunt Joan still remained, as she
always had been, the only friend her niece knew.
So things went on when the ladies came to
live at Burnport, and the school passed into
other hands. The girl's character had developed
early ; at twenty her will was stronger than
many a man's, and her ability to carry out in
an unpretentious way any purpose which she
might form fully confirmed. The old sense of
repression had completely passed away, blotted
out by her patient contempt ; while the pride
which had prompted her successful resistance
threatened to dominate her too completely now
that there was nothing farther to resist. Her
love for Joanna still kept her heart warm, and
her sympathies prompt ; but even that dear
patroness was beginning to understand how
withered her charge's whole future life might
become when the one object round which the
girl's affections clung was removed, and nothing
left to fill the void. Indeed, it did not seem
unlikely that Ursula, — so fettered and confined
was her devotion, — would not even continue to
feel this void for long, but would lapse into the
unregenerate condition of never having loved
at all ; for the devotion that can centre itself
entirely upon a single person must shortly

F 2

Sicken and dwindle from inanition, till at last
with the vanishing of its object it too vanishes,
sunk in the torpor from which the weak and unsubstantial
stimulants of memory are powerless
to rouse it.

There was something of ironical pathos in the
fact that such rare capacity for endurance should
be destined to defeat the very happiness which
at first sio-ht it might have seemed calculated to
secure, — that the thing which should have been
for Ursula's health should become to her an
occasion of falling. Joanna watched her with
anxious eyes as she went about her daily occupations,
blithe and contented enough so long asher
protectress was within call. There was an
iron composure in the girl under all her sprightly
hilarity which sorely perplexed the elder woman.
She was half afraid of the superabundant strength
pent up within that slight, firm frame, and dreaded
what it might portend, — dreaded, too, the rapidly
approaching day when Ursula would become her
own mistress, and the effect upon her of the sad
avowal of her birth and forlorn condition that
must then be made. The thought of another
calamity which had given Joanna much disquiet
in years gone by did not trouble her now ; time
had inured her to it, and her familiarity with the
logic that all the while pointed to one pitiless
conclusion had bred contempt. There had been

a time when she was always preparing to face
the worst, but it never came, and she had unconsciously
formed the conviction that it never
would. Otherwise she might have perceived
that the girl's happiness was not to be so
cheaply bought ; that her fortitude involved in
it a presage at least as hopeful as it was menacing,
— that if her salvation was to be riveted by
a thunderbolt, she was better fitted than others
to sustain the desperate remedy.

Ursula's pride was the pride of untried innocence.
All her life through she had been tenderly
shielded from evil : doing no harm, and receiving
none, she had learned to despise the power of ill,
and laugh at the alarm which it inspires. She
regarded it as something too distant to be afraid
of ; she even secretly thought it would be pleasant
rather than the reverse to stand up in her white
virtue, and deliver a crushing blow at its insidious
phalanx. She lived to repent of her boastful
folly. But actual contact with sorrow is no unnecessary
part of the development of even the
finest natures, and a woman's innocence may be
too dearly bought if it can be maintained only
at the price of tenderness. Unwrinkled loveliness
is often cheap and commonplace enough,
though we refuse to allow with Bacon (what
could he have been eating to make him think
it !) that none but the aged are properly to be

called beautiful. No ; there are graces more
excellent than any that we can barter to secure
them, and for which the precarious hothouse
bloom of youth, at any rate, ought to be sacrificed
without a regretful backward glance.

Ursula has not lived to repent the eager "joy
of battle" which animated her to meet trials
bravely, any more than the high confidence —
overweening as it doubtless was — which fostered
that stern emotion. For without these accidents
the purified aspirations that now invigorate her,
no less than the glad might and wealth of sweetness
they impart to her life, must have remained
for her to this day unattainable.

CHAPTER IV.

CHRISTMAS AT Harleigh.

He loved the spot —
Who does not love his native soil? — He prized
The ancient rural character, composed
Of simple manners, feelings suppressed
And undisguised, and strong and serious thought."

The Excursion.

Now, my dears, you may each take another
piece of cake all round, and I'll tell you a story
while you sit still and rest."

It was Christmas day, and arnold was back at
Oakleigh. That evening was to witness the long-promised
gathering of tenants and neighbours,
commencing with a substantial dinner in the
hall, which was capable of being converted into
a very snug apartment in spite of its size ; and
ending with a dance, to take place as soon as the
tables and chairs could be got out of the way.
This was the original plan ; but the children —
at least, the younger ones — being incapable of
taking part in the enjoyment of a 'grown-up'

party on equal terms with their elders, Arnold
had confirmed their good opinion of him by
entertaining them in the afternoon with a Christmas
tree, and other seasonable delights. The
tree was rapidly cleared of its sparkling toys, and
the children romped about the house till they
were summoned to the dining-room, where a
sumptuous tea was spread. Mrs. Marchpane
presided, assisted by some of the elder girls who
were obliged to go home for the evening to keep
house while their relations were at the party.
They were so good about making this sacrifice
that Arnold rashly engaged himself by the most
solemn pledges to give a dance on the first available
opportunity for their special benefit, and
the bustling little housekeeper managed to find a
suitable present for each of them out of the
spoils of cupboards and store-rooms as an earnest
of his serious intentions.

There was to be a magic-lantern exhibition
after tea, but there was still an interval which
Arnold could think of no better way of filling
than by trying to amuse the children quietly
with a story. Several of them looked as if they
required something to cool them down after their
boisterous exertions ; so he got them to gather
round the fire, and with one tiny boy asleep on
his knee, he collected his ideas for a minute or
two, and then began : —

Once upon a time there was a small but
*' very wise child called Peggy : she had a whole
string of other names, but that is the only one
I can remember. Now there can be no doubt
at all that Peggy really was a wonderful girl.
•'' In the first place she was cleverer than most
children of her own age, and knew a great deal
'' more about things than they did. I should be
sorry to say how soon after she was born she
could spell her own beautiful name, for fear
you wouldn't believe me. Then she was always
setting other people right, charging nothing
for it ; she never hesitated to take her elder
brothers and sisters to task, speaking to them
quite freely about their faults, for which, you
may be sure, they were deeply grateful. I am
sorry to say, however, that her friends did not
always show their appreciation of her excellent
qualities in the nicest way. We all know how
'' rude boys generally are : well, this poor Peggy
"had one fearful young brother who actually
** dared to call her his ' guide to useless knowledge.'
Did you ever hear of such shocking
perverseness ! He refused to take her as his
pattern whenever she pointed out how good
and prosperous he might be, if he would only
do so, abusing her openly to her face for her
modest little suggestions. Oh, she felt herself
at times to be just thrown away upon that

naughty scamp of a boy, did this amiable
sister.

But there are one or two more of her good
'points which I ought not to pass over. She
used to take the very greatest care to find out
what was proper, and do it. She never believed
anything, even things in books, — except,
of course, history, grammar, and geography
books — without making all sorts of enquiries
first to find out whether grown-up people believed
them. Sometimes, however, this carefulness
led her into mistakes which, if she Lad
only been a trifle stupider, she would not have
made. For instance, she used to say boldly
that there was not a word of truth in stories
about fairies, elves, goblins, witches, and all
those dear creatures whom no one, perhaps, has
ever seen quite distinctly but in dreams. When
her brother Tom would ask her why she insisted
upon reading geography and history
instead of fairy tales, she would reply that
the wise teacher at her school did not like
them, and very much preferred facts and
figures.

*' ' Which is the reason, my dear Tom,' she
used to add sweetly, ' why I prefer them too.
Just hear me say the dates of my kings and
queens, will you ? '

That was certainly rather thoughtless of

her, because it is quite well known that nothing
but sheer obstinacy prevents grown-up folks
'' from finding out more about elves and witches
for the young people, who have to go to bed
early, and so get few opportunities of knowing
anything about the wonderful things that go
'' on round their cosy homes under the moon.
'* We might discover that witches were not half
^' so bad as they are sometimes made out. Just
fancy what a relief it would be if they turned
*' out to be only kind, harmless old grannies, in
spite of their terrible hooked noses and bent
'' backs ! I am almost certain that is what they
are really, and nothing has ever happened to
make me think differently. But the grown-ups
are too lazy to help us here ; they know it
would be troublesome to find out all about
*' such things, so they pretend not to believe in
them.

Well, it was Christmas Eve, and Peggy had
gone to bed earlier than usual because she did
'' not want to lose anything of the next day by
feeling the least bit sleepy. She was not tired,
however, and it was not very strange that she
should wake in the middle of the night, won't
during why morning was so long in coming.
But what was strange, making her open her
*' eyes very wide indeed, was a wonderful pale
light at the end of her bed, — not to be

mistaken for daylight even by this half-awake
Miss Peggy, — which seemed to come from the
figure of a dreadfully thin and hideous pigmy,
and to be streaming out from him at every
pore like a sort of moonshine perspiration.
^' Peggy was much surprised to see this ill-mannered
person sitting, with his legs crossed
and his arms akimbo, against her bed-post, —
at that time of night too ; but, to tell the
'^ truth, she was more shocked than surprised,
*' for she could not help feeling ashamed of having
anything to do with a creature so unpleasantly
'' like a fairy, though an exceedingly ugly one ;
*' and the only kind of guardian angel she knew
of was herself, and people like her, who were
'^ always setting their friends straight.

"Her queer visitor knew exactly what she
'' was thinking, which proves, of course, that he
'' was actually the real fairy he seemed to be.

* Yes,' he said, in a hollow, far-away voice,
' yes, you small horror, it's no mistake this
'time; you see me now, do you? And you
shall hear me, too, before I've done with you.
'' Once I was a prince as beautiful as the rest of
'' my royal relatives ; now I'm about the ugliest
'' goblin going, and they're all beginning to cut
'' me, — the others are — because I ain't what I
'' was, and the line must be drawn somewheres,
that's what they say. And when I tell 'em it

ain't my fault, and it's you as is a-doing' of it
"all, they just says, "Get her to draw the line,
"then," says they; for it's you as is at the
bottom of it all, you disgraceful thing, you ! '

This was too much for Peggy : to be obliged
"to see the imp was bad enough, but to be
actually abused by it. What would her teacher
say !

' You're not in the grammar,' she said boldly,
' and don't deserve to be, either. Why, you
can't speak six words without breaking some
rule or other. For instance '

' Shut up ! ' interrupted the goblin, making
"an awful face; 'if you dare to explain anything
to me, I'll throttle you; by all the
mountains in the moon I will ! '

"what a nasty temper!' thought Peggy.
She would have said so straight out, only she
"was getting rather uncomfortable: it — the
creature before her — had such a natural and
life-like way with it.

' Now mind, no more interruptions, if you
"please;' and the goblin drew his miserable
little legs up to his chin, glaring at her over
his knees with sis tiny red eyes. ' Interrupt
me, or correct my grammar again, and I'll bite
you 1 '

"He disclosed two rows of sharp white teeth
in a grin that made her feel quite unwell, and

went on with a matter-of-fact air, as though
'' what he was saying was well known to every
body, and could not possibly be doubted by
*' anyone.

'' All children have such a fairy prince or
princess told off to attend to them, and look
after their interests. Perhaps you think there
'' must be a great many fairy princes and princesses
at that rate, and so there are — millions
of 'em. But as there are lots more fairies than
stupid human beings, they aren't all princes
^' and princesses at once, you see, though they
*' all get the chance in turn of being raised to
royal rank. And it's like this, — for you are
such a terrible dunce that you would never
find it out for yourself, but I must come and
'' tell you : — Every baby that's born is put down
to the next fairy on the list, the boys to the
*' fairy women, and the girls to the fairy men,
whereupon these fairies become princes and
princesses. All their royal highnesses start
fair, that is to say they begin by being equally
'' beautiful and accomplished ; but what they
will turn out afterwards is just a piece of luck,
*' and depends entirely upon the human children
*' to whom they are allotted. If those children
are, as they should be, firm believers in fairies
'* and other unseen things which their ridiculous
grammars and geographies say nothing about,

then we, their protectors, have a good time of
it, keeping our good looks, and our position
among the fashionable inhabitants of fairyland.
Otherwise we get gradually plainer and uglier
every day, our limbs become deformed, our
noses turn blue and our eyes red, our cheeks
fall in and our hair falls off, or else roofs us in
with a most inconvenient sort of door-mat.
^' Then, instead of getting pensioned off hands'
solely when our boy and girl brats grow up
'' and insist upon doing without us, we are
thrown out of employment without a prospect
*' of board and lodging except what we can get
by slaving for them low wizards and magicians,
which ain't fit occupation for a respectable
goblin, let alone one as has been no end of a
swell himself.'

Here the poor thing began to cry. and Peggy
forgot her disgust at his bad mistakes in grammar.
She even reflected that she herself mis^ht
be answerable for that too, remembering that
'' his former great friends would have nothing todo
with him now that he was evidently doomed
to end his days in the workhouse which the
fairies keep for used-up goblins. She felt that
he was too much overcome to attempt to bite
her now, so she plucked up her failing courage
with the kind wish to take off his attention
from his wrongs by changing the subject.

'' ' I suppose my brother Tom's princess is not
"quite so' — she stopped, blushing to think that
she had nearly called her visitor ugly to his
*face.

' Ah ! ' said he, heaving a great sigh, ' I fell
in love with her years ago, when we first met ;
but of course my case is hopeless after what has
happened to me. You have no idea how beaus
tidal she is still, — scarcely changed at all, while
"I' — a sob choked his voice, and he stood on
his head for half a minute, balancing the high,
stiff peak of his hat on the narrow ledge of the
footboard to Peggy's bed, in an agony of grief.

"What could she do? He appeared to suffer
so that she could not help pitying him very
much, and the end of it was that she actually
consented to try believing in fairies — especially
in her own fairy — for a year.

' Then we can meet again, and I can see
what it has done for you,' said she ; ' but I'm
afraid it will be very hard for me, you know ;
it may even lose me the grammar prize of my
class, there's no telling.'

' Anyhow, it'll do me good, if I'm not past
it already,' replied her odd protector, unfolding
a pair of tiny gossamer wings to fly away up
the chimney. ' Ha, ha ; when I come back
next Christmas Eve you won't know me,' and
"off he went almost gaily, leaving Miss Peggy

to think how foolish it was of her to give in so
easily to a sprite like this ; no bigger than her
own small thumb.

And yet, somehow, she woke up the next
mornings feelings glad and cheerful enough.
Perhaps by this time she may have taken quite
kindly to Tom's stories and fancies ; indeed I
am pretty sure she has ; aren't you ? "

The magic lantern was ready, and Arnold led
off his delighted party at once to see its wonderful
pictures. He was a little afraid, if the truth
must be told, that his parable might have been
rather too much for most of them. It was probably
his remembrance of the way in which they
had all been stuffing themselves at tea that suggested
to his mind the old proverb relating to
the unprofitableness of regaling certain animals
of omnivorous habits with marine treasures of a
substance difficult to digest. At any rate they
were harmless and placable little pigs in the present
case ; and though perhaps a trifle disappointed
at having been offered pearls instead of
the best husks, they had the decency not to turn
and rend their entertainer.

Scarcely had the children been got out of the
house when the guests of the evening began to
arrive. The Daltonss came early, as they were
to assist the master of the house in dispensing
his hospitality. Then there was Armitage, and

VOL. II. G

several representatives of two or three families
of gentlefolks in the neighbourhood. Besides
this, there were all the tenants and their wives,
to say nothing of a plentiful sprinkling of grownup
sons and daughters. Last, but by no means
least, there were one or two Burfield tradespeople,
notably the mayor, who came up the
steps into the hall in ponderous state, fast anchored
to the wife of his capacious bosom, a lady
of so much weight that Rubens himself could
scarcely have done justice to her charms. Mr.
Vincent Hewitt had always been described in
the local newspapers and " posters " by the mysterious
letters T. C. immediately following his
name ever since Arnold could remember anything
about him. These very letters had, in
fact, formed the subject of the first conversation
between our hero and his old friend the haberdasher
; for it was in that respectable occupation
that the excellent mayor found a sufficient opportunity
for the exercise of his commercial instincts.
The boy was learning to read, and proud of this
new faculty, would make every printed placard
he met with an excuse for testing it. Now there
was no name more conspicuously posted up allover
the little town than Mr. Hewitt's, and to it
were always suffixed those two puzzling initials.
Arnold scorned to ask his nurse for an explanation
of them ; so one day, seeing the haberdasher

standing in the sun outside this shop, lie bodily
accosted him, and asked the meaning of the
appendage to his name.

It's a mark of rank, my little sir," replied
Mr. Hewitt, puffing out his cheeks with an
important air.

What's that ? " enquired the child innocently.

Why, you don't mean to say you don't know
what rant is % " exclaimed Mr. Hewitt ; and he
looked at Arnold in a despairing way, as if he
thought the boy's education must have been left
till so late that little could now be done to avert
life-long imbecility.

"Well, you see," he went on slowly, "if you
don't know what rank is, I don't think you'll
understand anything I tell you about it. So you
want me to tell you what V.'Ewitt, T. C. means,
do you ? You've seen it all about the town, and
you can't rest till you know all about it, can't
you ? So you've come to V.'Ewitt himself as
being the likeliest person to tell you, eh ? That's
sensible, at any rate. Well, now, young gentleman,
T. C. might mean Terrible Character ; have
you ever thought of that ? No, of course you
ain't ; and it don't mean that at all, but just
simply Toivn Councillor" and Mr. Hewitt stepped
back to catch the fall effect of this declaration
of his civic importance upon his small auditor.
"That's the 'highest rank in this township next

G 2

to the mayor," he added, satisfied with what
he conceived to be the boy's awed demeanour ;
*' and don't you be surprised to see me a sitting
on the mayor's seat in the town 'all myself one
of these days."

Arnold recollected the circumstance as he
welcomed the new mayor to Oakleigh, and
gravely congratulated him on the fulfilment of
his prophecy.

"V.'Ewitt is not proud, sir," remarked that
great functionary, after gracefully acknowledging
the compliment, '' and I am glad to see you have
not stood still neither, Mr. Robur." He then
with prompt delicacy presented his lady wife in
or<ier to save his host the embarrassment of
replying to his condescension.

Only one of the friends whom he had invited
failed Arnold that evening ; but the vacant place
was not an easy one to fill, for it was Paston,
whose work kept him away against his will.
*' You know that I am always uncertain when
stern Duty shall lay her icy paw on her votary's
shoulder," he had written to Robur ; " Sie is the
goddess whom / serve." The doctor was not
much in the habit of italicising his letters, and
his deviation from principle on the present occasion
was doubtless to be attributed to the receipt
of a lengthy epistle from Arnold a short time
before, containing an enthusiastic account of

Burnport and its attractions, with frequent and
significant references to the household on East
Disc.

Grace Dalton looked charming in her pretty
dress. Her good qualities may not have been
very striking, but she certainly understood 
make the most of soft hues, and a rich texture.
Arnold was somewhat surprised to see that Frank
had done him the honour of accepting the general
invitation which had been despatched to Beau
Sejour. He seemed to hover about his sister
most assiduously, never letting her go out of his
sight even when she was engaged with other
people. Arnold could not but be struck by this
change for the better, as he thought it. The
wild cub had been tamed at last, then, and his
sister's influence was succeeding where rougher
discipline had failed. Grace asked eagerly after
her old school-mistresses, and was delighted with
the messages for her which Arnold had been
commissioned to deliver. Finding that she, too,
held Miss Joanna in high esteem he launched
out into eulogy of that lady's virtues till Grace
declared that she was sure both the sisters were
confirmed spinsters, and would neither of them
ever requite his hopeless attachment.

You might have more chance with their
niece, though," she went on ; " poor little Ursula ;
I often wonder what she has grown up like, she

used to be such a reserved, friendless sort of
child." ^

She's not so very little now," remarked
Arnold ; "I don't suppose there is much difference
in height between her and Miss Joanna ;
and you know she is decidedly tall. As to her
being reserved, — well, I dare say she is that still ;
but it's not at all unusually apparent. She is
perfectly frank and open, I mean ; but at the
same time there is probably a good deal more in
her than one might bargain for after just a few
casual meetings."

Is that all you've seen of her, then ? " asked
Grace demurely.

I saw her whenever I went to the house, and
that was as often as I liked," was the reply.

'' Is she pretty ?"

^^Yes."

** What a dear old body ! " exclaimed Grace,
suddenly breaking off, and looking in the direction
of an aged woman who was talking to
Armitage ; " do let's go and hear what they are
saying." He complied gladly, and they approached
within earshot of the homely old dame
and her companion.

"Fairfield was my maiden home," they heard
her tell the clergyman. " My father was a
soldier, sir, and he left his right arm on the
battle-field : that was at Waterloo. Dear sakes,

lie was as proud o' that bit o' stump of his as if
they'd given him a new arm instead o' chopping
off the old one. How long be that ago, sir ?
They was asking of me only t'other day, but
the rheumatiz lev got into my mem'ry, I dew
believe."

Sixty odd years ago now, mother ; don't you
keep an almanac ? "

Oh dear yes, sir, to be sure I dew. And I
looked and looked, but I couldn't find it. You
see, I've marked it with a big black cross at the
day my poor old man was born, and the day he
died ; and whenever I looks at it I can see nowt
but those two black crosses, sir. D'ye mind my
poor old man's grave in the churchyard, Mr.
Armitage ? He'd 'a bin eighty-nine last Thursday,
if so be as the Almighty hadn't wanted
him."

How old are you yourself, mother ? "

Oh, not so old as that, sir," she replied ;
"there was a matter of nigh upon ten years'
difference between us. But it's a sore trial for a
poor body to live out the end of life alone ; I
pray you may never know it, sir," she added,
turning to Eobur.

Don't you think it will make you more contented
to go when the time comes ? " said he.

Aye, to be sure it will. But then, ye know,
us poor folk have mostly a hard job to live

decent-like at all ; so it's scarce ever so bad for
us to die as for our betters." Arnold thought,
as he turned to the next group, that the qualms
which the approach of death sometimes inspires
in these "betters" were not always attributable
to such an innocent cause as their superior command
over the means of a comfortable existence.
A flushed domestic soon made his appearance
with the welcome tidiness that the dinner was
served. His method of making this announcement
was highly original, and worthy of the
occasion. He did not stand at the door with
the bland importance of a town-bred waiter, and
communicate his intelligence to the host in the
audible, yet mellifluous tone endeared by tradition
to fashionable diners-out. Working his
way through the crowd of guests like some conventional
spy or detective of transpontine drama,
he confidentially imparted the good news to each
member of the company severally, button-holing
them for the purpose in a desperate state of
nervous bewilderment, till Arnold suddenly divined
the state of affairs, and cut the matter
short by inviting Gibbins to lead the way to the
banquet with Mrs. Dalton, who had graciously
consented to act as that philosopher's partner for
the evening. It was a goodly spectacle to seethe
decorous air with which Joshua accepted
the privilege thus conferred upon him, and put

himself in the forefront of the advance upon the
victuals. Grace, who brought up the rear on
Arnold's arm, could not forbear a smile as she
took her seat next him at the top of the tal)le,
and caught a glimpse of the bailiff's punctilious
gallantries to her mother at the other end.

Doesn't it remind you of Solomon doing the
honours for the Queen of Sheba ? " she whispered
to her companion.

It was a merry gathering. So many sat down
to dinner, and they all had such healthy country
appetites, that every dish was sent away empty
as soon as it was set on ; and beyond the removal
of well-scraped trenchers, and the substitution
of fresh ones, the guests waited upon each other.
This gave rise to a most unusual and edifying
display of chivalry on the part of the men, and
it is possible that the female relations of these
rustic knights and squires had seldom seen them
appear to more advantage. Even Frank, though
he was at first heartily disgusted, to find that a
special waiter had not been told off to stand
behind his chair, and attend to no one else,
was compelled for very shame to make himself
moderately useful to his neighbour, a pretty,
wholesome looking girl, who, to tell the truths,
was not a little fluttered at her proximity to
the lackadaisical young gentleman. She had
been quite frightened when he asked her in his

ofF-hand way to accept his protection, and now
felt that she could have waited upon him a great
deal more expeditiously than he did upon her.
Frank was not a particularly susceptible youth,
or he might have made more out of the company
of this simple Hebe. When she took off her
white cotton gloves, and took up her knife and
fork with two very red little hands, preparatory
to making no undecided attack upon a plateful
of roast beef, Master Frank's gentlemanly instincts
drew him to make a shuddering comparison
between the hue of those useful members
and that of the satisfying viand upon which
they were engaged. Nevertheless, he did not
allow the nauseating thought to check more
than temporarily his charitable feelings towards
its unconscious cause. The rosy maiden's first
helping had hardly been despatched when Frank,
mustering all his conversational resource, turned
to her, and inquired if she had ever been to
London.

Oh dear no, sir," was the reply, accompanied
with a blush that some ladies would have envied.
*^ Have you ? " she added ingenuously.

Frank's pity kept him silent for a minute or
two before he could return an answer.

*' Of course I have," he said, as soon as he
could speak ; " go there often, you know ; see
heaps of things, — nothing like it anywhere.

Why, everybody," — he stopped, hindered hy
some vao;ue intuition that he had better not
continue v/hat he was going to say ; so with
admirable tact he o-ive his sentence another
turn; " everybody ought to go to London, you
know."

My Aunt Sarah, who died last year, went
up to London once, and she used to say she
thought wee W'cre better off down here in the
country. That was why father never went,
nor mother neither ; aunt always advised them
not to go. ' Let alone the trouble of getting
there, what better sight can you see than
Burfield Fair, when it comes round ? ' That
was how she used to end up whenever she talked
about going up to see the sights."

Frank was scandalised ; he could not hear one
of the privileges of wealth depreciated in this
Away on the obsolete authority of a deceased
aunt without positive pain. The rich man
perforce sets a higher value on the pleasures
that his money can procure him than his poor
neighbours. Travelling; on the Continent used
to be a fashionable and much vaunted amusement
mainly because it could only be done
effectively on a long purse. Thus many of us
graduate our admiration for the works of Nature
and of Art by an exact scale, corresponding for
the most part with the difficulty or expense

incurred for the sake of beholding such objects.
If the Falls of Niagara were situated in
this country we should probably think very
little of them ; their accessibility would rob
them of a great part of their charm. Rich
people are sworn by tacit consent to make the
most of their position. What would be the
good of their lucre if they could not make their
poor relations envious by pretending to enjoy
themselves hugely ? A millionnaire, whose fortune
has lately come to him in a manner no
more expected then deserved, paid a visit to
a certain English museum of casts a few years
ago, his income at that time amounting to about
a couple of hundreds a-year. The friend with
whom he went was a humble votary of the old
Greek masters, and remained standing so long
before a fine cast of the statue commonly known
as the Venus of Milo that his comrade could
not contain his impatience. " Come along," he
growled, 'rit's enough to give one the toothache
staring at that armless creature with all her
clothes dropping off." Now that his revenue
yields five times as many thousands as formerly
he received hundreds, however, his tune has
modulated in proportion, and he can talk for
hours together of the marvellous relics of antiquity
to be seen at the Louvre or the Vatican.
Frank Dalton's culture belonged to much the

same order ; tliougli it may be doubted whether
he had the capacity to take even this flimsy
layer of French polish.

Last year father took me and my brothers
and sisters to the fair, and we saw the African
snake-charmer," remarked his partner, venturing
to take her eyes off her plate again after a long
interval. " Did you see him, Mr. Dal ton ? He
let the nasty great things climb all over him,
and didn't seem a bit frightened. Why, he
even kissed them ; ugh ! But father said the
snakes had not got any fangs to bite him with,
so it wasn't really dangerous at all. Do you
think that can be true ? "

I saw the fellow myself," said Frank, pompously.
*' The snakes couldn't have been real
ones, you know ; at least I don't see how he
could have taken the stings out of their tails
without being stung."

It so happened that Grace, who was close by,
heard this unlucky observation of her brother's,
and her end of the table was soon in a roar at
the joke. The perpetrator made a feeble effort
to join the general laugh against himself, but
this proved abortive, as he could not understand
precisely what his mistake had been. " It's too
bad," he growled to himself, *' that a fellow can't
be left alone by his own sister ; nor did the fact
that this indignity had been inflicted on him

under Robur's roof tend to diminish his chagrin.
Arnold had certainly smiled when Grace retailed
the thing — whatever it was — to him, and that
was enough for Frank. He did not see that
his host restrained the risible impulse as soon
as it was felt. His sister's open amusement
mattered comparatively little to him, but it
was not so easy to forget that he had made
sport for his great enemy. It was the last
straw. " I'll teach him to laugh at me," he
muttered between his clenched teeth.

The dishes, lightened of their flaming burdens
of plum-pudding, had been removed, and the
conversation began to die down as every man
filled his neighbour's glass, and then his own.
Arnold looked down the table at Mrs. Marchpane,
who seemed to be bursting with the consciousness
that something unexpected was going to happen.

'' What is it ? " he whispered to Grace Dalton ;
you all seem to be in the secret but me."
Before she could answer there arose a deafening
clatter of knives and forks, led off by a burly,
red-faced man who sat near the bailiff at the
other end of the table, and was known to most
of the company as Farmer Bunting, the principal
tenant on the Oakleigh estate. Hereupon
Gibbins rose with much solemnity, and grasping
the handle of a shining pewter mug affectionately,
bowed a great many times, and announced that

the present seemed to him no unseasonable
opportunity for making a speech. He was not
allowed to get under weigh, however, till the
appropriateness of the remark had been endorsed
by a fresh salvo of applause : thus fortified he
was able to start off at last under the most
favourable auspices.

Ladies and gentlemen, friends all ; I rises
confidential-like to propose a bit of a toast,
which T know as you all wish me to do, and
having' bin told as it's the erect thing, and no
respect about it." Here the speaker wiped
the perspiration from his brow, and appeared to
derive much consolation from the bow on the
top of Mrs. Marchpane's cap, as he continued
to contemplate it fixedly throughout the rest of
his brief harangue.

This 'ere toast as I'm again' to propose is
your 'earth, Mr. Robur, sir ; and what I say is
that if there's any truth in the saying ' like
master, like man,' perhaps your been' happy and
living' prosp'rous will etfeck me so as I shall do
ditto, so to speak. (Cheers and laughter.)
Well, gents, — not forgetting your good ladies
so far everything has bin going on straight
betwixt me and my master, there ain't bin no
cross surpasses atween us. We ain't lost any-think
by it, either, for all he is free-handed, like
his good father afore him. The accounts square

off as good as usual, though some of his friends
here to-night lev got to thank him for reducing'
of their rents. (Cheers). Then the live stock
is a-flourishin' ; in the words of the poet, which
some on us may remember —

On the rampant hills my father feeds his flocks ;
Take them for all in all, we ne'er shall look upon their likes again.'

Yes, yes, AV, Bunting, I hears you, and I'm
a coming to the tenants as fast as I can go."
The red-faced man. before - mentioned allowed
himself to be mollified by this reassurance, and
desisted from certain frantic efforts to attract
the orator's attention, which seemed likely, if
kept up much longer, to terminate in a broken
blood-vessel. Mr. Gibbins continued : —

The tenants, sir, wishes me to say as they
is deeply aware of all wot they owes you, — both
secondarily and otherwise (a laugh), — and 'opes
they may be able after a spell to make up to
you bit by bit all wot you lev lost. They has
bin treated 'handsome, and they knows it. (Great
applause.) Charity alius has, and alius will,
begin at home ; rest upon me for that. Not
as I means any offence to you, Mr. Armitage,
sir, and I don't say it ends at home. I ain't for
advising' no one to stay away from them charity
sermons for the Obligation o' the Gospel in
foreign parks which most of us has heard now
and again up at the church yonder. Not a bit

on it ; all I means to say is, Give my master
credit for the best h intentions, alius remembering'
there is a brighter side to everything, and drink
to his success in carrying' of 'em out." (Loud
cheers.)

The toast was drunk with great enthusiasm,
none of the time-honoured institutions which
form the accessories on such an occasion being
omitted, and the indefatigable Bunting proved
the sound condition of his pulmonary system
by keeping up with stentorian energy the choice
refrain in which the virtues of the toasted
individual are summed up by the emphatic
declaration that he is a "jolly good fellow."

Arnold thanked them all in a few simple words
for the kind way in which they had received his
hospitality, and then every one set to work, and
the hall was soon converted from a feasting into
a dancing; room.

The band, composed exclusively of local talent,
had just struck up, Mr. Hewitt was sitting
against the wall with his shoes off, cooling his
stockinged feet preparatory to indulging, as he
informed his good lady, in a " 'healthful 'op,"
and the host was stepping off with Grace Dalton,
when — to adopt a convenient newspaper phrase,
more remarkable for usefulness than literary
elegance — our report left.

VOL. II. H

CHAPTER y.

ODS PISTOLS AND BULLETS."

Hates any man the thing he would not kill ? "

The Merchant of Venice.

Grace Dalton was becoming very anxious
about her brother. Hitherto his life had been
one long Devil's Sabbath, and the scrupulous
way in which he had observed the ordinance, " in
it thou shalt do no manner of good," was little
short of Pharisaical. As he grew older, however,
his method of conducting himself gave more
pressing reasons for alarm than had been the case
while he was still a school-boy, and his friends
could feel that there was plenty of time for the
development of that consciousness of responsibility
which is conventionally associated with the
attainment by a human being of " years of discretion."
But this comfortable expectation seemed
fated to turn out a delusion in Frank's case as
year was added to year, leaving him nothing to
show for the discretion which never came buta
few sorry instincts, a little private oligarchy of

spoiled tyrants with nothing to do but heap
burdens on their ignoble slave.

The causes he assigned for the prolongation of
his visits to Copesbury of late had never quite
satisfied Grace ; on the last occasion, when he
had been introduced to Captain Mack, her leading
questions on his return had aggravated him out of
all patience, and he had sulkily refused to satisfy
her " beastly bothering." It was no use to confide
her doubts to her father and mother ; she
was as desirous as Frank himself to avoid a family
disturbance — a " shine," as he would more forcibly
have expressed it. As for Mrs. Dalton, she had
such a morbid horror of worry that nothing
would induce her to look a difficulty in the face
if she could possibly avoid the duty. Gracefully
understood the risk of trying to force her
to do so, having often before experienced disagreeable
effects from her mother's wonderful

o

knack of foisting the responsibility of deciding a
question upon others, the right of criticism afterwards
always being reserved for the good lady's
own peculiar exercise.

There was only one person who might be able
to help her ; and Grace looked forward to Arnold's
return from Burnport with all the eagerness of a
dependent nature relying upon the succour of a
trusty friend. She would have liked to ask his
advice by letter, for suspense troubled her, and

H 2

immediate relief was what she most needed. A
short time back she would not have hesitated to
adopt that course, but now something kept her
from it, hinting that it was better to wait than
to commit herself. She hesitated, then gave up
the idea, and finally fixed her hopes upon the
party which was to be given on Christmas Day
at Oakleigh. There would be plenty of opportunity
then, she thought, of speaking to Arnold,
and meanwhile it was scarcely probable that her
brother could come to any fresh harm.

The relation that existed between Grace and
Arnold was not an uncommon one. The intimacy
between them had never been broken, except by
absence, and it always continued in a perfectly
natural and spontaneous fashion whenever they
met. On his 'side there was a warm feeling of
friendship, not unmingled at times with a certain
amount of admiration for her delicate tact and
amiability; but though the charms of her exterior
were not lost upon him, they never affected
him at all deeply. He never even thought himself
in love with her, nor did he imagine for a
moment that the same could not be said of her.
Had he been disturbed by any opposite hallucination
of self-conceit, he would certainly have
made a great mistake. And yet — such is the
intricacy of a woman's capricious fancy — she
had allowed herself, mainly upon the half-uttered

suggestions of others, to unconsciously harbour
the notion that they were only waiting for some
unknown signal to fall into each other's arms.
There was some fatality about it, she supposed ;
for she only felt that liking for Arnold which
any healthy-minded girl would have for a man
with whom she had grown up, and who always
treated her as a favourite sister. But, however
it came about, the mention of his name, or anything
connected with him, was now beginning to
call up a new association along with the old ones,
and she experienced something of the pride of
ownership.

Perhaps Arnold himself would not have
credited the tenacity with which the germ of
this mischievous prognostication held its own,
and rapidly developed, in Grace's otherwise sane
little head. She had been unsuccessful in her
first attempt to utterly uproot the thought of
such a contingency, and it had spread out one
long tendril after another till it had all the
appearance of a thriving probability. After all,
the circumstances of the two seemed to warrant
the conclusion at which one of them was automatically
arriving. Most of Arnold's acquaintances,
indeed, had ceased to speculate about his
matrimonial prospects, considering the matter to
be virtually settled. There was, therefore, abundant
excuse for Grace to tacitly follow the direction

towards which her destiny seemed to be insensibly
tending. Her disposition was not one to fight
against the resistless force of circumstances ; conformity
had always been to her the easier part to
play. Providence must have intended them for
each other, and she supposed it would be the
happiest thing for both of them. It was stupid
of her not to think of it before. Anyhow, she
would try what came of familiarising herself with
the prospect, even though it did look just a little
doubtful, and endeavour not to disappoint her
relations when the time came.

The Christmas party had two important and
unforeseen results. Grace learned that her castles
were constructed of nothing more substantial
than air, and determined to give up the intention
of ever actually enacting them. Arnold's reference
to Ursula Lorton settled that ; the
manner in which he spoke of her was decisive
to one who knew him as well as Grace did. At
present she hardly knew whether to laugh orbe
disappointed. She could have stamped with
vexation at having so very nearly made a terrible
blunder through listening to the officious gossip
of outsiders. She little knew what her brother
was about, or she might have thought that an
abnormal capacity for blundering ran in the
family. The gossips of the neighbourhood had
been less careful to conceal their plans for Grace's

future welfare from Frank than from the young
lady herself. Nothing but the very plainest
evidence to the contrary would have convinced
him that her heart was not set on the object of
his absurd hatred, and his perception, sluggish as
it was in other matters, was sharp enough to find
startling confirmation of his opinion in the most
trivial occurrences. If he was on the watch fora
good pretext for quarrelling with Arnold, he
could scarcely have discovered anything better
to his purpose than Grace's demeanour during
the last few weeks before Christmas. He almost
persuaded himself that he was really actuated by
concern for her happiness in twisting everything
she did or said into agreement with his prejudices.
When she was silent and thoughtful he
assumed that she was pining away for love of
his enemy. When she talked it was forced ; she
only pretended not to care for fear of the just
vengeance which her magnanimous champion
might be driven to wreak on the traitor ; and so
forth. It is easy to put two and two together
in such a manner as to make five, or anything
rather than four, when we have a strong enough
reason for doing so. Frank, to do him justice,
never attributed Grace's depression to his own
shortcomings ; there was nothing; of that sort in
the branch of literature which he favoured ; the
paltry heroes who had professed his rubbishy

code of 'honour' before him were always the
victims of other people's failings. Carrying out
this same role of being his sister's protector, he
had caused her considerable annoyance at the
party by continually putting himself in her
way.

For goodness' sake, Frank, don't keep getting
under my feet so." That was how she rewarded
his services. But the call of duty was imperative,
and the chivalrous youth scorned to play
into the deceiver's hands by humouring poor
Grace's weak request. Nothing passed between
Grace and Arnold, therefore, on the question of
Frank's prospects, at the party. That misunderstood
individual thought his sister extremely
ungrateful for his liberal patronage, and Grace
was too much incensed at his galling supervision
to say a word to him all the way home.

It's too bad," she said to herself; " I had so
looked forward to that talk with Arnold ; I'm
sure he would have made me feel more hopeful
about the poor dear boy" Then she reflected that
her imaginary reason against writing was now
removed, and resolved to avail herself at once of
the circumstance.

But if Grace was impetuous, and eager to
strike while the iron was hot, Frank was at least
her match in this respect, for his haste was
unrestrained by that element of prudence which

ODS PISTOLS AND BULLETS." 105

has an influence on the calculations of most
women, even when they are taken by surprise.

The Christmas festivities were hardly over
when Mr. Dalton announced one morning that
he would have to break into his repose by going
over to Copesbury for the day.

It's just some stupid little business that anybody
could do' he remarked somewhat testily ;
"but there's nobody I can send just now, and I
suppose I must e'en go myself ; that's the long
and the short of it."

Let me go," said Frank hurriedly. "I don't
mind going a bit, and I could do what you want,
couldn't IV

Humph," ejaculated his father, raising his
eyebrows in some surprise, " is Frank also among
the usefid members of society ? Well, it's something
new and original, at all events."

The young scapegrace achieved a double end
by this impromptu manoeuvre ; he gave his
parent immense gratification, and had a good
excuse for again taking his station, a docile pupil,
at the ill-shod feet of that formidable corruptor
of youth, Mr. Rock. The elder Dalton, however,
augured nothing but good from Frank's unwonted
readiness to oblige ; it was the old episode of the
Prodigal Son in little, and there was no elder
brother to interfere, and spoil things. Grace
apparently paid no attention ; at least she did

not say any tiling, and the prodigal started off,
armed with his instructions.

The business was rapidly concluded, and Frank
turned his steps jubilant in the direction of the
Cope-house. He met with an affectionate reception
from his erudite guide, philosopher, and
friend.

You're come just in time to say good-bye to
the Captain," said Hiram, as he led the way upstairs.
" He leaves my humble roof tomorrow
for the Continent, finding the climate too cold,
and certain other matters too hot for his delicate
constitution here at home at this jovial season of
the year. We heard about your grand 
t'other night at the aristocratic mansion of a
certain magnate. Saw it in the Courier, you
know. Ah, well ; ' Christmas comes but once a-
year,' and when it does come round it generally
brings nuts and oranges, and peace and goodwill,
and all that sort of thing, in its wake, don't
it, my boy ? "

This last observation was addressed to Captain
Mack, on whom the speaker emerged, as he
made it, through the open door at the top of
the stairs.

It's a pity it don't bring quite enough of
those precious articles to go all round," responded
the warrior gloomily. " As for the peace and
food-will, I can spare them," he added ; " give

me the nuts and oranges. But I haven't seen
too many of them, even, in this shop."

What a man it is for creature comforts,"
sighed Mr. Kock, motioning; Frank to a chair.
Now this young gent here ain't of your way
of thinking, I'll be bound. He's made his peace
with his enemies, and is now in the enjoyment
of a quiet mind as well as a full stomach, or I'm
no judge of a cheerful countenance."

The subject of this ill-timed compliment did
not appear to be quite so pleased with it as the
bookseller doubtless intended him to be. He
wriggled uneasily on his chair, and blurted out,
I can't help what I look like, can I ? Perhaps
you think I've forgiven A. E. because I went
to his party that night ; well, you're out therefor
I hate him worse than ever I did before.
Perhaps you think I'm going to knock under to
him, and let him off what he deserves ; you're
wrong there, too. See here ; I bought this for
him as I was coming; alone:, and I know how to
manage the tool, as he'll know to his cost before
many more days are over." As he spoke he
drew out of a small hand-bag a rather 
pistol, and held it out for
inspection.

"There's powder and shot there," he went on,
pointing to the bag, " as much as he's worth.
I wasn't going to spend too much coin over it,

as I only want it for just one shot, you know,
and then I shall throw the thing away."

i'm, it's rather old-fashioned, but it'll do for
that," said Captain Mack, examining the weapon.
'' I wonder what sort of work it has been used
for before. Aimed low it might be effective

enough on some sorts of game. Ah, it's a

delightful pastime. I never did very much in
that way myself; but the little I have seen of it
makes me quite anxious to take to it again as
soon as anyone is obliging enough to offer me a
chance. It wasn't much in fashion in Spain,
and elsewhere on the Continent, the scenes of
most of my sporting experiences. Steel was
always held in higher estimation than lead there.
We always carved our game. It was slower,
perhaps, but more amusing ! oh ! decidedly more
amusing." The Captain showed his teeth in a
wolfish smile. " But no doubt you, as a beginner,
are quite right in your choice," he added,
for it would not do to discourage his juvenile
follower. Pique was the instrument by which
the Captain hoped to gain his end, and he could
not have selected a method better adapted for
imposing on his dupe. For it is not a little
noteworthy how many hot-headed and intemperate
persons have rushed upon ruin at the
bidding of this strange impulse. People have
committed every crime in the decalogue for

pique, and arc perpetually relinquishing all sorts
of dear and worthy objects of their loving
ambition for the sake of wilfully blighting their
own fortunes. To such natures as Frank Dalton's
it seems sometimes as though the tempter had
but to whisper the magic charm, '' Spite yourself,"
and they must leave their all, and follow
him to the nethermost hell of remorse.

Ah, Mack, Mack, what a life you've led ! It
ain't as though you had confined your passion for
bagging game to the more warlike sex, either,
my sportsman," and Mr. Rock, highly delighted
with this delicate reference to his friend's reputation
as a lady-killer, burst into one of his
excruciating chuckles.

So you think of turning your hand to the
noble art of self-defence, eh ? " said the captain.

Frank acknowledged the compliment implied
in this euphemistic description of his intentions.
A captious observer might have thought these
preliminaries to have been of an offensive rather
than a defensive character ; but that was a detail.

The peaceful vendor of literature was, however,
more easily satisfied. Turning to his colleague
with a triumphant air, he exclaimed, ** What did
I tell you ? Didn't I promise to prove to you
there was pluck outside the service as well as in
it '? Didn't I tell you there was a young gent
living not a hundred miles from this emporium

who had so much spirit corked up inside of him
that it was more than the bottle could do to hold
it ^ Didn't I "

Don't trouble to repeat it," interrupted the
object of this impassioned appeal. " I've no
doubt you've said so dozens of times already, but
you won't change my conviction that pluck is
gone, exploded — I don't care whether in or out
of the service ; in short, it's a lost art. Why,
the new-fangled improvements in these handy
little contrivances for bringing down your game
at a long range show that." So saying, he
handed the weapon back to its owner, who
received it with a rather crestfallen appearance.
Not that I'm bigoted in my opinion," continued
the Captain in the tone of one whose impartiality
towards his undeserving fellow-creatures was not
to be disturbed by their sad degeneracy ; " show
me the man who can wipe off an old score neatly,
and I'm his friend, no matter who he is, or how
he managed the business. But one doesn't come
across too many of one's brothers-informs in a
lifetime," he added, relapsing into his despondent
mood.

Sanguinary monster ! " cried Mr. Rock gaily,;
he's prejudiced against firearms because they
don't shed enough blood for him. But just see
how much more humane a bullet is than a
blade, you rogue, besides being quieter and more

effective. It's a development of our civilisation,
that's what it is. You and I are getting behind
the times, my boy ; we must leave our younger
and betters to choose for themselves, you know."

Oh, if you only want to punish your enemy,
and not kill him outright, I should advise you to
use a pistol by all means," replied Mack, resting
his feet on the mantelpiece, and puffing away at
a cheroot, out of which he seemed to " suck no
small advantage."

Well, that's all I want to do at present,"
said Frank, " though, if he goes on, there's no
knowing what I mayn't be driven to. The
things IVe been made to stand from that fellow
are about enough to turn a man crazy, you
know. Why, he actually takes upon himself to
advise my people what to do with me, and I
can't stand that. I know why he's doing it too ;
he thinks he can have it all his own way in one
of his secret plans if I'm got rid of. But he'll
find out his mistake, 'cos I'm not going to take
myself off just to please him, and let other people
be insulted by him, even though they are so
sweet on the brute. Oh, don't I hate him ;
that's all."

Neither of the auditors of this excited outburst
had any reason to doubt the genuineness of the
sentiment with which it concluded. Their comments
were few but expressive, and referred — at

least, so Frank understood them — merely to the
atrocious behaviour of the individual whose
identity had been concealed from them with
such masterly fidelity.

"Low," murmured Mr. Rock.

Bad form," echoed his colleague.

I knew you would say that," cried the novice,
springing up to shake hands with both of them.
I knew you wouldn't stand by, and see a fellow
wronged without budging an inch to help him
on a bit. Now then, Captain Mack, Father
Hiram, what's your advice ? " He looked alternately
from one to the other as he spoke, scrutinising
their expressive features with shifty
and doubtful eyes, impatient for the smallest
suo-creation of encouragement.

Hist," ejaculated the bookseller, raising his
hand, " I think some one is asking for me downstairs,"
and he stole out of the room, bidding
them go on with their conversation, and not
wait for him to return.

It ill becomes me to give an opinion to a
young man of spirit like yourself," began the
Captain, acting immediately upon Mr. Rock's
permission to proceed without him. *' But, if you
will have it, I should say that you could not do
better than go on as you are doing now ; in
which admirable and gallant course you have my
most cordial wishes for your success."

Frank thanked him for his disinterested sympathy,
and they shook hands solemnly once
more.

Revenge is not a thing one can afford to
delay much," Mack went on, lolling with his
head over the back of his chair, in which attitude
he employed the pauses in blowing rings of smoke
up towards the ceiling. " Of course no one buta
fool would rush it ; but then no one but a fool
would wait till he cooled down, and then perhaps
tamely submit, and give up the notion altogether.
That's what I call shirking one's responsibilities."

Frank assented eagerly. " I expect he'll give
me heaps of opportunities," he said, '' and I shall
just stick to him till I find one that'll do."

Spoken like a man of spirit," was the admiring
response to this determined manifesto.
That's exactly what you ought to do ; stick to
him like glue, and you're sure of an early chance
of doing the trick in the prettiest way possible.
I can see you won't have to wait long for your
promotion among the ranks of men of honour,
Mr. Dalton. Few of us have been able to make
a start towards that splendid ambition so early
as you are doing. You're fortunate, sir. Why,
I've known many cases where the suspense before
revenge could be tasted has spoiled the ]pest
years in a man's life. Ah, those slow revenges !
they take it out of one, I can tell you."

VOL. II. I

IVe been reading; about that sort of tbinof
lately," said Frank, blushing crimson. '' It was
about a woman, you know. The book said that
women were best at slow re veneris, and all that
sort of thing. But I don't believe it, do you ?
No woman I ever met had the spirit to drown a
kitten."

*' Oh, that's all put on for show," replied the
Captain, smiling pleasantly. " It's always a
point of honour with a woman to pretend she's
got no spirit at all, but you don't catch them
forgetting to revenge themselves, no matter how
long they have to wait for it. The slowest revenge
— and in some ways the best — I ever came
across in my experience was taken by a woman
on a man. She was in love with another man,
and this first fellow, who was desperately smitten
with her, hadn't a chance. Well, he knew she
hated him, his friends were always telling him
so ; but he was a fool, and he went and spread a
lot of lies about her which had the effect finally
of chokiuof off the other man, her real flame."

The Captain paused, and blew two or three
stupendous rings. "I could put out a candle
with any one of those," he remarked, proudly.
This was too much for Frank's patience ; " please
go on, Captain," he implored.

I beg your pardon," said that amiable person ;
your society somehow makes me lose myself.

The lady's revenge is what you want to hear.
Just so. What do you think she did ? "

"Married the man she wanted to injure, I
should suppose," said Mr. Rock, who had joined
them unobserved by his hopeful pupil.

You're right, my friend ; that's what she
did. Ha, ha, ha ! But you needn't scoff at it,
friend Hiram : it was no lauo^hino^ matter for
him, I can assure you."

Well, it's not what I should call an uncommon
thing for a woman to revenge herself on a man
by marrying him," observed Mr. Rock. " I
might have been served that way myself once, if
my weather eye hadn't been precious wide open."

** I congratulate you on your escape," said the
Captain ironically ; " I can almost feel for her at
having missed such a treat. But that's not the
same thing," he continued ; " I don't suppose
your would-be tormentor had any special grudge
against you to drive her to take the desperate
step. In fact, I will pay you the compliment of
supposing that she must have been attracted by
your engaging manners and appearance rather
than repelled ; it's no good attempting to understand
the mystery of female infatuation, you
know. In the case I'm speaking of, however,
there was nothings of that sort. The loathing
generally follows wedlock came before it
instead, and drove my heroine to endure the

company of her greatest enemy in order that
she might have him safe in her clutches, and
tear his heart to pieces with slow tortures. She
didn't care a jot what became of herself as long
as she could ensure a death of lingering agony
for him. She ruined her own fortune as well as
his to accomplish this. The plans she invented
to make him miserable were absolutely perfect in
their ingenuity. For a long time she pretended
to be melancholy mad, and wouldn't speak a
word to him. That was more congenial work
than most of her other tricks. The hardest part
she had to play was when she would pretend to
be almost kind to the unlucky devil, so as to
make him feel all the more keenly the contrast
between the marriage he had sacrificed everything
to win, and that marriage as it had actually
turned out. She was not a strong woman in
health, and she was older than he was ; but there
was one thing which kept her alive through it
all, the thought that she must see the end of
him before she died. And so she did, gentlemen.
She had the pleasure of whispering curses
into his ear as he lay dying in the foulest cellar
that could be found for the purpose ; and she
drank the water which a thoughtless neighbour
had brought for him before his very eyes. They
dragged her away from his carcase to a madhouse,
but she was satisfied. She couldn't have

laid out her time and money better, she said.
It was a glorious revenge. Some day I shall
write a book about it in the latest realistic style."

The bookseller rubbed his hands. "It's worth
thinking about," he said; "I'll help you to
produce it, my boy, and we'll share the profits."

Perhaps it's hardly necessary to add that the
heroine of that romance was a French woman,"
remarked the Captain ; "no one else can work inartistic
accessories with such humour."

I dare say not," responded Mr. Rock ; " but
don't you despair. We never know what we can
do tiU we try, eh, Mr. Dalton, sir ? "

That gentleman, however, was prevented by
excitement from replying coherently. "You
shall hear all about it soon," he stammered ; "a
man's not to be beaten by a woman, you know."

I hope we shall meet again before long, then,
under happier circumstances than the present,"
said the Captain, rising as Frank took his bag
with trembling fingers, and fumbled with the
lock. " We expect a great deal from you, sir ;
and as soon as I find a suitable resting-place
abroad I shall write at once to our friend here
for information about you."

Hiram accompanied his " young patron," ashe
now insisted upon addressing Frank, to the
shop-door, and bestowed an unctuous benediction
upon him before parting. " When you next

darken these humble doors, sir' said he, " may
it be with the flush of victory on your face.
What a 'reception we shall do our modest best to
provide for you ! " Frank turned the corner, —
he was across the Rubicon now, — and his preceptor
retraced his steps, superabundantly satisfied
with his own and his partner's share in the
transaction.

The best stroke of business we have ever
done together," he mused. " Does the fool really
think he's only going to maim his man with that
young cannon ? If he hits him, ten to one he
kills him, and this neighbourhood may prepare
to turn out for a fashionable funeral in another
week with tolerable certainty, I think. It'll bea
good joke if I'm called to serve on the jury
that convicts Master Frank Dalton at the next
Assizes."

That evening saw the finishing-touches put to
the business of the firm before its temporary
dissolution on the morrow.

CHAPTER VI.

Armytage.

Love's very pain is sweet ;
But its reward is in the world divine,
Which if not here, it builds beyond the grave."

Shtlleij.

I HAVE come for ghostly counsel, Armytage'
said Eobur, entering his friend's study at Buried
vicarage one evening soon after Christmas.

The clergyman raised his eyebrows.

Perhaps you didn't expect me to make you
my father confessor," continued Robur, smiling
at the other's slight gesture, " but the fact is Pve
got the clog round my neck too, like the rest of
humanity. Why were the creatures of the Garden
of Eden made male and female — man especially ?
If there had been only one sex — who knows ? We
might not have been lamenting the All to-day,
or yearn in vain to be free and self-sufficient."

The speaker had thrown himself into a settle
by the fire, and was leaning forward, his eyes on

the hissing copper kettle, and his hands spread
out to catch the warmth.

Armitage was a little taken aback by the
impulsive way in which his visitor had unbosomed
himself. He was accustomed to regard Arnold's
temperament as an unusually judicial one, and
was firmly persuaded that a certain radical
orthodoxy which he thought he saw in the young
man's character would one day assert itself in
no half-hearted fashion. Besides, he was of a
reserved nature himself, and not much used to
confidences of this description.

You can't get rid of the interdependence of
the sexes, Kobur," he said, smiling. " But perhaps
you are merely making use of me as a corpus vile
on which to test the venom of your journalistic
quill before you offer it to be quaffed as a healing
nostrum by the general reader."

Arnold laughed in his turn.

Nothing of the sort, my dear fellow. I
haven't sent anything to the Tab a for an age,
and don't mean to do so again for another. To
tell you the truth, now, I should say that your
own style was considerably more adapted to the
taste of that influential journal's public than
mine. One good turn deserves another, you
know."

Come, I don't quite deserve this severity,"
returned Armitage good-humouredly, Vv^alking

across the room to ring for coffee. " I must own
I didn't think you could be quite sincere, though,"
he added, as he reseated himself opposite his
guest.

Now, Armitage ! I may have thoughtlessly
tampered with my moral sense by writing once
or twice for a newspaper, but do you suppose that
I don't still draw the line at speaking a lie ? "

My dear Eobur, you are in a captious frame
of mind. Please do not expect me to mean all
I say, if I said that."

What an admission for a ghostly counsellor
to make ! " quibbled Arnold, as he took a cup of
coffee from the tray which had just been brought
in. " Well, I accept your apology, and ask leave
to make a personal explanation, as my lords of
the Treasury bench say."

He inserted the poker meditatively between
the bars of the grate, and went on :

'' I always thought I should hate a manly
woman, but I've found one lately, and I can't
tell you how much I like her : she has made me
ambitious to be a womanly mau."

Spiritually hermaphrodite, as it were," said
Armitage ; '* well ? "

Yes ; I don't think men and women ought
to be so mutually dependent. Is such dependence
the ' perfect law of liberty ' most people
suppose it to be ? "

Armita2:e considered for a moment, and then
said reflectively :

'that turns on what their idea of the dependence
is. I agree with you that no one individual
ought to fix his affections so completely upon
another individual as to feel that life would bea
blank without that other. A love which
narrows instead of enlarging the heart that feels
it is certainly an unblest emotion in my opinion.
At the same time, I hold that men and women,
taken in the mass, are just as necessarily dependent
on each other for reciprocal spiritual
offices as for the physical ones which keep up
society."

'rand yet," mused Arnold, "how many people
of those one meets, and has dealings with, ever
dream of putting any but the most poverty-stricken
interpretation on that dependence : love
means nothing more to most of them than
infatuation."

Yes," said Armitage, folding his arms, " it
often means little enough beyond that, to begin
with. But you must not forget what a depth
of capacity there is in the unworthiness devotion.
Why, the police reports teem with evidence of
the monstrous lengths to which people allow
themselves to be carried for the sake of despicable
and even puerile ends. After all, men
may be infatuated with worse things than beauty

of exterior : even those fading corporeal charms
are a more worthy object of devotion than wine
or money hags."

You don't think love is selfish, then ? "
It is, no doubt, at first. The truest lover is
as selfish as the basest when his eyes first rest
upon that gracious form whose presence — nay,
whose memory — can stir so sweet a tumult in
his soul as nothing but undisturbed communing
with its unconscious cause can quell. That is
the selfish mistake, if you will, that every lover
must plead guilty to having committed in the
earliest stao-e of his love. But it is not a mistake
that the reason, with its infinite shortcomings,
can complain of, and a man need never
regret having; trusted his heart in such a case.
AVhen was the reason ever known to assail the
decisions of a pure heart ? Unselfishness is only
enlightened selfishness, and our progress from
the one habit of mind to the other begins with
human love, till we transcend the widening circle
of created things, and end with the divine."

There was a pause. Arnold felt, as Joanna
Blunsden had made him feel before, the unearthly
beauty of a devotion such as that which Armytage
painted, a devotion which could spread
wings for itself, and bear aloft its load of care in
strong eagle-flights, distancing earth's terrible
attractive force, while every stroke lessened the

burden's weight. And all this without the aid
of visible, concrete sustenance ! It was a hard
saying.

Armitage was the first to break the silence.

A love which schools us to sacrifice even the
very objects of our earthly affection for that
which they symbolise cannot be called selfish,
Eobur," he said quietly. Arnold's perplexity
troubled him, and he would have given much to
know the precise nature of his friend's difficulty.

I suppose it's all true : the best lover, I
suppose, must be he who needs the schooling of
symbols least, and arrives at his ultimate destination,
the divine ideal of human love, by the
shortest route."

Armitage could not help being rather amused
by the speaker's hopeless tone.

'•' I don't know why you should call him the
best lover," he said with a smile ; " I suppose he
is the happiest. But he may have possessed
advantages of temperament, or what uot ; and
no credit can be claimed for that. I shouldn't
wonder if he got more blamed than praised,
though ; people would probably call him hard
and unsympathetic."

Arnold nodded.

"The majority can't be brought to take in
more than a few individuals, which was what we
started from, I believe. However, you needn't

trouble about it for my sake. None will have
much reason to call me hard and unsympathetic
on those grounds, at any rate ; I'm afraid
there's very little chance of my coming forward
as a candidate for that sort of persecution'

Well, it is for that majority that marriage
may be said to be, humanly speaking, a necessity,
and so far we are in accord," replied the clergyman.
" Of course you understand that I assume
the lover's aim to be a single one, as I believe inmost
cases it actually is. If figures show the
capacity for loving persons to be a commoner
constitution of mind than the ' missionary spirit '
which cannot be appeased with any less comprehensive
devotion than enthusiasm for a community,
figures do not prove anything farther.
They do not prove, for instance, that a man who
is capable of this enthusiasm is therefore better
than one who requires something more tangible
for his affection to lay hold of, but only that his
circumstances are better."

It comes to the same thing," said Eobur.

^' I am not so sure of that. Sometimes I
think the slower advance through that very
mediate infatuation for an individual which you
affect to despise is the surer way too, after all.
Other people talk a great deal, but do they really
feel as much as the simple couples whose married
lives have been spent in practically learning to

regard the interest of others as identical with
their own ? Can we w4io have never known
wife or child expect to compound satisfactorily
for this apprenticeship, this prelude to absolute
and perfect love ? "

Then is marriage become the only way of
salvation," cried Arnold warmly. " Come, my
dear Armitas^e, too much heart-searching is
making you morbid. But this diffidence is
absurd. No ; for really irreclaimable spinsters
and bachelors commend me to the married
ones !

"You look quite pleased with yourself after
flinging that stone," said Armitage ; " to think
that I should have lived to hear myself reproached
by you for being morbid ! Look out
for the glass, my friend. As for your married
spinsters and bachelors, I know them welL But
what can you expect ? There are always some
fools who can placidly waste even the most
obvious opportunities. Besides, marriage is in
many cases no more the necessary than it ought
to be the sole consummation of love as we agree
that it is felt by the majority. 'Tis better to
have loved and lost than never to have loved at
all.'

Even in the circle of the fixed stars Dante
cannot take his eyes off the face of Beatrice. The
mystical splendour of the Rose and Lilies of

Christ's garden are unheeded hj him, and possess
DO attraction comparable to his lady's smile.
But it is her voice, her encouragement, that recalls
him to his duty. So it was with ' the wan
sweet maiden ' who ' laid her mind on ' Galahad
in the story, and so it is whenever love breaks
down all barriers between two faithful hearts."

There must be many lovers whose union is
destined never to go further than betrothal ; all
sorts of circumstances may stand in the way,
and prevent it. And even supposing that the
lovers could have foreseen that this must be the
end of their union, — that it must stop short with
a plighted troth never to be fulfilled, — as might
be said in the world, — who will say that they
were wrong to accept the opportunity of such
sweet intercourse as was possible for them,
without waiting for the superfluous approval
of parents, and kinsfolk, and friends ? Physical
union, I grant you, may not be incurred without
a good prospect of being able to honourably meet
the responsibility it brings. But when a man and
maid are sincerely in love with each other, let
them give up sordid thoughts. No one should
be so base as to hint that they ought to relinquish
the greatest boon life can offer for the sake
of some wretched fear that they can never be
married. Prospects ! I should like to know how
far the fairest bank-balance would compensate

for even the momentary loss of that potent
talisman."

'' I wish yon would expand your views on
the subject, and publish them in a pamphlet
addressed to the parents and guardians of Great
Britain," laughed Arnold; " there would be less
need for their circulation in Ireland, I suspect ;
they are hardly worldly-wise enough over there."

He had never seen his friend interest himself
in any topic with such ardour before. On professedly
religious subjects Armitage always maintained
great self-command. Perhaps he counted
on a greater measure of Robur's sympathy than
usual on the present occasion.

"I think you are right, though," continued
the clergyman's visitor, becoming serious again.
'ewe don't hear nearly enough of engagements
that have been, as people say, broken off. To
see any connexion between a man's purse and
such a companionship in its highest form is
worse than superstitious. But, surely, the doctrine
is not universally digestible. It will not
do to encourage a distaste for thrift, and the
sober domestic graces, in people who enter upon
an engagement only because it is an orthodox
and respectable preface to marriage. Such
persons desire a formal recognition of their
union rather than that union itself, and while
we wish them joy of their exceedingly moderate

ambition we ought not to forget how much
worse their position might be if they were to
rush upon their fate without any regard to the
baser sort of prudence which is adapted to their
understanding."

"But I don't believe in having one doctrine
for the generality of people, and a different one
for private use among the enlightened few'
objected Armitage.

Neither do I ; but you must be aware that
however fervently we may each profess the
same doctrine, the construction we put upon
it varies with our private idiosyncrasies and
predilections, so that it can sometimes scarcely
be recognised as the same at all. Most men are
persuaded of the necessity of religion, but their
manifestation of the impulse to worship something
takes strangely divergent forms. One man
immures himself in a cloister, another tramps
along in the middle of a crowd, screaming himself
hoarse to the noisy strains of a brass band.
One man cannot do without the presence of a
congregation of worshippers like himself, another
cannot do with them. It's no use grumbling
because we can none of us agree with each other.
The philosopher sees the radical harmony which
underlies all our surface eccentricities, and is
not surprised to find that individual differences
in logical capacity lead us to draw grotesquely

VOL. II. K

various conclusions from the same collection of
dogmas. The fact is, my dear Armitage, there
is no end to the complications that may result
from the unequal balance of heart and brain in
any one of us. Sometimes one preponderates,
sometimes the other, and you can never calculate
with safety exactly where the resultant of the
two forces will fall in any given case."

Armitage clapped his hands.

Bravo ! " he cried ; " you've let the cat out
of the bag at last. I wasn't quite sure before
what the difference between us really was. You
believe in some supposed antagonism, then,
between the ends which the reason proposes
to us, and those which appear desirable we
know not how or why, knowing only that
they stir in us a passionate longing for their
attainment ? '^

Yes, I most certainly do," replied Arnold
stoutly.

I am sorry to hear it," said his friend, " for
I will not disguise from you that I consider it my
agreeable duty to try and disabuse you of this
chimera."

You have my best wishes for your success,
for there is nothing more enjoyable than to hold
a comfortable conviction. Pray do your best ; I
shall not object to the longest incantations you
can think of," and Arnold settled himself in his

chair with the air of a man who is determined to
give his opponent a fair chance.

Well, now, just to begin with, I should like
to ask you how you reconcile this insurmountable
antagonism, as you consider it, with what you
said just now about a radical harmony under the
apparent confusion of things being perceptible to
the philosopher, by whom, I presume, you meant
yourself."

Robur was charmed with the spirit of this
attack.

*' What a coat of mail you have got peeping
out under your peaceable black cloth, Armitage,"
said he ; "in the middle ages they would have
made a capital fighting bishop of you. But it
really is not the least use proceeding with our
discussion if you insist upon taking me to task
for my inconsistency. You must therefore consider
yourself sufficiently answered when I inform
you that my brain is at the mercy of my heart in
the present instance. 1 am not an altogether
unnatural monster, you know, and Nature's estimation
of consistency may be compared to the
lively prejudice which she is said to entertain
against something only a shade worse, — a vacuum,
namely."

Armitage laughed ; " I remember something of
a conversation we had not long since with your
friend Paston," he observed. " Then, if I mistake

K 2

not, you were at great pains to uphold the
supremacy of the intellect."

I believe I did maintain the necessity of
examining the grounds of one s beliefs," replied
the other ; '' and though I may be induced to
modify the position I held, I have no intention
of evacuating it altogether."

Perhaps not, — though, for my own part, I
believe you are mistaken. But, at any rate, you
are beginning to feel the reaction, to acknowledge
that there are some mysteries which elude
probing, and yet must be hugged closer than all
the lore of fluid phenomena and deciduous facts.
The sand is shifting under your feet, and you eye
the sheltering rock a little nervously. Why has
it endured, but to raise its silent testimony
against your unbelief in the survival of the
fittest 1 "

Do you ask me not to exercise my reason,
except upon certain subjects?" Arnold spoke
eagerly. " Finite and defective as it may be, it is
the one staff" in our hands to support us in our
search for Truth. Would you have us throw it
away when we come to an especially difficult part
of the journey, and then, through want of
practice, grow clumsy in wielding it at all ? "

Armitao^e did not hesitate. " No," he said :
use your staff to the fall, but do not expect too
much from it. If we are cripples we have at

least got our crutches — two of them — and why
you should persevere in availing yourself of only
one is more than I can understand."

Because the other one is more of a hindrance
than a help," was the reply ; " it is always
catching in the only staff we can depend upon, or
else getting between one's legs, and tripping one
up. So we prefer to strap it up out of sight
behind our backs."

^' Don't stake too much on your analogy, my
dear Eobur. Let me make our difference clear.
Each of us, in common with the rest of mankind,
has been provided with two guides, and it is for us
to choose which of them we will follow. That is
your view. We cannot follow both of them, you
assume, and so we must select for ourselves the
one whose dictates are least likely to clash with our
peculiar tastes. More than that, you have hinted
that, though a man may decide to follow in most
cases only the impulse which he receives from one
particular source, yet there may be times and
occasions when the behests of the rejected leader
must be obeyed. You speak of consulting your
reason as your general practice ; but I am not
very much surprised to hear that you have
lately been compelled to give your heart private
audience as well. The only surprising part of
it, to my mind, is that you should feel any
unwillingness to do so."

You talk of my weakness as if it were my
strength, Armitage. I am deeply conscious of
the conflict of rival impulses bidding for my
patronage. It is far from pleasant to feel oneself
put up to auction every day in this way."

So I should imagine," responded the clergyman
; '* but you have the satisfaction of knowing
that it is your own doing. You talk of the
absurdity of submitting to this dual control of

heart and brain, and yet you do submit,

you are forced at length to take advice from both
quarters. This, then, is your modified opinion, I
suppose. You no longer regard the choice
between the several impulses as being made
once for all ; every fresh point raised for decision
requires a fresh choice ; is that it ? Pray, what
is the standard of reference by which you make
your awards ? "

It is not so difficult to make a rough classification
of most questions that come up to be
settled, according as they seem to fall within the
appropriate domain of reason, or unreasoning
impulse," said Arnold. " For instance, when I
am making up my accounts I try to do so dispassionately.
If I allowed myself to rush to the
conclusion that I had been cheated, as I sometimes
feel tempted to do, and went about
accusing people without any positive evidence
to prove the truth of my suspicions, I should

deserve the worst penalty that the hiw could
inflict, as well as the contempt of my neighbours
for my egregious lack of common sense. Then,
again, when anything moves my sympathy, or
my admiration, I daresay I act quite spontaneously,
and without any reference to reason. But
that is not the same thing as saying that I ought
to do so. What unpremeditated crime could not
be justified on exactly similar grounds, were that
the case '? "

But I do not wish you to act unreasonably''
returned Armitage, taking up his cudgel with
pugnacious energy. " It is just as much against
my principles to refuse to listen when reason
speaks, as to accept it as my sole director. Talk
about the folly of consistency as much as you
will, but you will hardly have the effrontery to
tell me that the inspiration of this soothing
doctrine was originally due to your reason. If
you think about it, you will see that you hold
the opinion upon no firmer basis than a mere
pleasing intuition, and that it is no more subject
to the restraint of your intellect than any other
casual whim."

Upon my word, Armitage, we seem to be
changing places. You need not to be so determined
a stickler for employing the brain's winnowing
process upon everything. So you no
longer hold this passion for systematising the

universe to be quite the delusive ignis fat mis you
once thought it ? "

Your mania for inconsistency is indeed a
ruling passion, my dear Eobur. I scarcely think
your taunt against me of being a trimmer is
deserved, however. Change your own ground as
much as you like, my dear fellow, but don't
blame me in one breath because you can't agree
with yourself, and in the next take credit for
your jumble of contradictory opinions. Whatever
our personal differences may be, we must really
leave it to an impartial observer to say whether
my notion of the universe is less systematic than
yours. To tell you the truth, I was merely
attempting to affix the stigma of a reductio ad
ahsurdum to your boasted classification of all
topics as either rational or irrational, according
as you summon the brain or the heart to adjudicate
upon them. But, to adopt a more straightforward
method, I cannot regard either of these
internal arbitrators as less impartial than the
other. Why should I trust one of them gladly
and be reluctant to trust the other ? Believe me
it is equally irrational to separate their functions
and to abstain from using: them altogether.
Systematic justice will not be done if they are
made to sit apart in judgment on our difficulties,
and we can pick and choose between them at
will. On the other hand, let them be placed

together on the same bench, and there may be
some hope of the establishment of order."

Hopeless," commented Arnold, 'they are the
scissors of Atropos, and must always be cutting
different ways."

Armitaore laughed.

Scarcely a happy simile, my friend. If the
parts of every machine worked as well together
as a pair of scissors, there would be less waste inmost
manufacturing processes, I suspect. Anyhow,
the two parts of your scissors achieve their
object, which is to effect one cut, is it not ? The
absurdity of acting by passion alone is sufficiently
obvious, and you have already supplied me with
an instance of it. But consider the opposite
course, — the complete bondage of a man to what
he calls ' reason,' meaning nothing more by that
than Ms reason. Why, I will maintain that even
in the case you supposed — the occupation of making
up your accounts, — you would do better to
listen to both monitors than exclusively to one.
For, after all, it is from your heart that you learn
not to suspect others without just cause : the
unworthy impulse to do so is repressed, and you
set about your business with a calmness not of
the reason, but which leaves the reason free to
act. My point is that the first conviction of
your error comes from the heart, in the case
supposed, warning you not to trust a distorted

impression in the uneven mirror wliicli is constantly
deceiving us with its false reflections."

Arnold held out pertinaciously, however.

*' I see nothing in what you say but an admission
of the separate functions of the intellect and
hem, well — the sympathetic faculty," said he,
unmoved to all appearance by his opponent's
persuasiveness. "My analysis was defective, I
grant you, but not unsound, so far as it went.
In this case of my conceiving a certain suspicion
consequent upon making up my accounts, I merely
intended to touch lightly on those stages of the
matter which were actually appropriate for the
reason to discuss, and for the reason alone. It is
immaterial to show me that the heart takes its
place at certain other stages. I could have told
you that myself."

You mistake me, Robur. All I desire to
prove is the intimate connection between the
functions of sympathy and intellect. You speak
as though I had associated the two so closely
together as to think of them almost as synonymous
terms. The two names correspond to two
distinct notions in my mind, however. All I
maintain is that in practice the boundary line
cannot be fixed between them. The further we
carry our analysis, the more inextricably blended
do they appear. Take the most minute operation
of the brain, and say if you can entirely dissociate

it from the character and sympathies of the man
who performs it. No conclusion was ever reached
that had not some personal colour in it ; even
those of the calculating machine always come out
tinted to the taste of the individual who manipulated
it. What a world it would be if things
were otherwise ! Imagine the warm hues fading;
out of life as everything — religion, love, art,
science shrivelled up, leaving only lifeless shells
and wisps, while pale Impersonality settled down
closer and closer over the face of Nature, till
all the flowing outlines and soft contours were
merged in one ghastly dead level of uniformity."

"And yet this wet blanket of yours is the
immortal vesture which some true worshippers
aspire to wear," remarked Arnold.

It makes me shudder to picture such a state,"
Armitage went on, not heeding the interruption.
"The constant unrest, the never-satisfied search
after the hidden things of the universe, the wild
haste to pry into visible Nature at every point
where an opening can be effected, — all this
childish anxiety to get at the works without
caring how much the poor clock-face is mutilated
in the attempt, this wholesale ' murder to dissect,'
are inevitable accompaniments of that final
usurpation by the intellect of our absolute control
which your arguments, pushed to their logical
conclusion, would seek vainly to justify."

We must be prepared to resign superfluous
luxuries, and comfortable theories, you know,"
said Arnold somewhat mischievously. " But we
still hope much from the widest possible application
of scientific methods. The consciousness
that every step in this direction brings us nearer
to Truth ought to be enough to compensate for
other losses."

Well, if you beg the whole question in that
fashion, I must give you up," and Armitage
raised his hands in a deprecating gesture. *' But
I know you better than to believe you are really
so one-sided. No ; exercise your mental faculties,
but exercise your sympathies as well. You disclaimed
the reputation of being a monster a short
time back. Very well, then ; allow yourself free
development all round. Why should you want
to pigeon-hole the universe ? No affairs belong
exclusively to either heart or brain, but these two
elements are found cohering just as closely in the
molecules of experience as in the mass. Sympathy
can kindle a halo of romance about the dullest
physical fact, nor is there any impulse so lofty,
or any reality so transcendental, but reason sets
it in a clearer atmosphere, dispelling the mists of
delusion, and clothes it with solid texture."

What an apology for religious speculation
you are making, Armitage ! I understand now
your warmth on the subject of human love. It

is SO entirely a personal matter that you are
convinced it can be the introduction to no
religion but one which has a personal object
of worship."

Quite so," was the reply ; " I hope you
feel none the worse towards me for the discovery.
Indeed I regard every essential in
our devotion to each other as pregnant with
peculiar indications of the heaven that * lies
about us,' not only in our infancy, but rises
more distinctly upon the wise man's vision ashe
advances in life."

Arnold rose and shook himself. "Then suppose
we stop our talk here," said he, " for I have
no time to be led into a disquisition on the use
and abuse of symbols. Besides, there is another
matter I want to ask you about. .What do you
think of Frank Dalton ? "

"The very thing I had on the tip of my
tongue," cried Armitage.

A grave discussion of the young gentleman ^s
attainments and position followed. No satisfactory
result came of it, however. Arnold
showed his friend a letter from Grace Dalton
about her brother which he had just received,
and they both agreed that it was hopeless to
expect Frank to get any good out of a career at
the university.

"He'd be sent down after the first term, if

they ever found a College that would take him,"
said Armitage.

"I wish he'd confide in me," said Arnold;
'' it's just possible he may have a turn for something
or other, and we might help him to it, if
we only knew what it was."

CHAPTER VII.

A THOROUGHGOING CHAMPION.

Killing is good to frustrate an offence to come, not to revenge
one that is already past ; and more an act of fear than of
bravery ; of precaution than of courage ; of defence than of
enterprise." — Montaigne.

It was a clear night when Arnold crossed
the threshold, and found himself outside the
vicarage. He was glad he had not driven over,
and looked forward to an enjoyable walk home
in the starlight, for it was too early as yet for
the moon to make her appearance. He was in
no hurry, having only hastened his departure
from Burfield for fear of keeping Arihitage from
some one of his numerous engagements ; so he
loitered along in the resolve to take his time
over the three miles which separated Oakleigh
from the clergyman's house. " The moon rises
about nine o'clock," he said to himself, " and I
shall hang about to see it."

He met but few people in the old-fashioned

street in spite of the mildness of the weather,
and none of them were pleasure-seekers like
himself. Their quick step told of an intention
to reach shelter as soon as possible. There were
no little knots of smokers at the corners, or in
the road ; doors were no sooner opened than
they were closed again suddenly, and bolted
inside, as if the opener were afraid of being
pursued to his hearth by some dogging spirit of
evil. Now and again a hurried "Good night '^
fell on Eobur's ear out of the darkness, but the
speaker was gone almost before his salutation
could be answered. They were still in the midst
of their revel, however, at the inn near the top
of the street, where the coaches used to stop
in old times. The place was not without a
certain air of importance, though it had seen its
best days. Great gentlemen from London on
their way to their country seats no longer called
in their pleasant fashion for more than they
ought in the black, smoke-dried parlour ; or
tossed sovereigns down like half-pence, leaving
the change with which they were too proud to
soil their fingers on the table, as one octogenarian
waiter, a superannuated retainer of the place,
solemnly averred to have been the case within
his memory. Nor was he the only laudatory
temporis act that Burfield could proudly point
to among its denizens. For the place was still

the chief stronghold of Conservatism in the
county, though its disfranchisement had been
among the not least shameful results of the last
Reform Act. Burfield was still governed by a
squirearchy, and the squires stuck bravely to the
last few bottles of their good old port. The
inhabitants could boast that their town had
resisted the spirit of innovation more successfully
than any other for a circuit of many miles,
and would often hold up their principal hostelry
as a fine sample of the way in which the local
tenacity asserted itself. And, indeed, most of
its traditions remained unimpaired. County
balls were still given under its antique roof ;
the magistrates continued to administer the law
with their usual lack of discretion and efficiency
in the apartment dedicated to that purpose
under the ironical title of the Justice-room, and
from the fact that the volunteers had always
held their head-quarters there ever since the
dawn of their existence it may be reasonably
concluded that the inn was as much the centre
of attraction for the choicest and most select
spirits in Burfield as it had ever been.

The light from the bar within was streaming
out into the broad porch as Arnold approached.
It was so strong that it attracted his attention
for a moment, when he thought he saw the outline
of a face just on the verge of the deep

VOL. II. L

shadow outside. - He was not surprised, however,
that there should be a loiterer to listen to
the chorus which was being performed by the
revellers with much clinking of glasses and exchanging
of personalities. At a distance the
effect was more exhilarating than a connoisseur
might have judged it to be at close quarters, and
Arnold stopped on the other side of the way to
listen too. When he looked into the shadow
again to see if he could make out anything more
about the face, it had completely disappeared.

"A ghost, perhaps," laughed the young man
to himself ; " tempted out of Hades to take
a fond look at the scene of former beer-swilling
triumphs."

The chorus came to an end with a wild
falsetto screech as he moved on. The last few
outlying cottages were past, and he began to
mend his pace for the long stretch of lonely road
that lay before him. Presently he came to a
gate leading into a field which was bounded on
the side of the road by a tall quickset hedge.
He halted, and resting his arms on the top
began to light his pipe.

I never could keep a match going in the
least breath of wind," he muttered, successfully
accomplishing this feat only after burning his
fingers a good deal. Then he looked across the
field to where the sky was growing paler, and

watched Diana slowly kindling her torch. Up
it came majestically, with no unsteady brandishing
; a silver lamp among the blue foliage of
some distant firs. The mystic influence was not
long in stealing over Arnold's senses, — he was
predisposed for it by his talk with Armitage, —
and he began to rave inwardly with that same
lunacy which only lovers may unblamed experience.
He thought of Ursula, and — and — her
aunts. What was she — what were they — doing
or thinking at the present moment ? His passion
made him ubiquitous, or rather, left his body
standing there, and carried him away. Ursula
was not there, so he must go to her. And yet —
and yet, — was there nothing, then, to reproach
him, and make him fear to think intimately
upon her so soon ? Had there been no disloyalty
in those rebellious words of his to
Armitage ? He had not thought of this in the
heat of friendly antagonism ; but now, alone
under the dim luminous canopy of night, he felt
the hushed presence of sincere Nature as a
rebuke, and cursed himself for an intemperate
fool.

There are some unlucky people in the world
who are being constantly victimised by an irresistible
impulse to say on purpose what they do
not mean, — sometimes the very opposite to
what they really think. Perhaps this is the

L 2

commonest form of lying. At any rate, it is the
least harmful ; for the chief sufferers are the
members of this irritable class themselves. The
words they utter during these temporary aberrations
cause some little surprise at first to
persons unaccustomed to the complaint, but their
memory can seldom be such a lively source of
chagrin and regret to any as to the unfortunate
beings who are responsible for them. And the
worst of it is that persons subject to this hallucination
are firmly persuaded of the serious reality
of their fancies till the fit passes, and they
discern with amazement the grotesque hideousness
of the forms which they took to be angelic,
the actual grace and symmetry of those seeming
deformities.

The brain's photography is an occult and
mysterious process. Persons, places, circumstances,
— it has plates enough in its dark
recesses for them all. But, whether it is that
these objects seldom appear in a sufficiently
favourable light, or whether it be owing to some
unknown and capricious failing in the apparatus
itself, certain it is that a clear and satisfactory
picture is seldom to be obtained by the instantaneous
process of memory ; while even those
which are the result of the longer method of
continuous association with their originals for a
length of time are liable to fade suddenly just

when they are most wanted. Every detail connected
with Ursula was impressed upon the
mind of her lover with the utmost vividness.
The image which he conjured up of Joanna was
faint and inexact by comparison. As for Miss
Blunsden, any attempt to recall her lineaments
was doomed to disappointment ; the vague
notion of a shapeless, pillowy mass, intersecting
and partially obscuring an arm-chair, was all he
could make of her. But if the mental portrait
of the beloved one had not been wanting indistinctness
before, it was microscopic in its
fidelity to-night. As he leaned on the gate he
acted over again all the scenes in which he had
borne a part with her — not that they were very
numerous — dwelling as if for the last time on
each well-remembered phase in this elusive
shadow dance. Endless were the changes of
setting, and each seemed to set off her figure to

some new advantage against its relieving backer
o o

ground. He conned her words and actions, tried
to interpret her moods, gestures, and expressions
; and finally began to weave fresh circumstances
for her, endowing her in his imagination
with a future opulent in picturesque situations.
Probably this idolater thought nothing too good
for the lady. Would Armitage have warned
hin to set his affections higher, he wondered.
No ; his present attitude of mind was not

permanent ; there was no one to hinder him from
approaching the heavenly portals in his own
way. No man, not even a clergyman, could
still retain the besotted uncharitableness of those
fierce zealots who had executed their cruel
sentence on the young lover in the legend of the
caves which he had heard with Ursula. Sweet
Ursula ! If he were to die before another morning
dawned, no password could be better than
that for his lips to shape with their last breath ;
dying or living, it was his strongest bulwark
against ill, not made with hands.

What was that ! The snapping of a twig,
perhaps, where some cat was creeping along
under the hedge intent upon its poaching ; or
it might have been the noise of something
falling, or being struck, a long way off, so that
it seemed close at hand only through the deception
of darkness and surrounding quiet. While
he was hesitating between some such possible explanations
of the matter, the sound of a hurried
step coming down the road from Burfield
changed the current of his thoughts, and made
him turn round to look at the individual who
was approaching. The moon was not high
enough to make any passing object very clearly
visible, especially against the sombre-tinted
landscape which lay beyond the hard white road.
Arnold saw the tall figure of an ungainly manor

boy muffled in a long coat slouching along
at a great rate. His hat was tilted forward
over his eyes, hiding everything of his face
except what was concealed under the ulster's
high, upturned collar. Both his hands seemed
to be deep in the secrets of that garment's
pockets, which were apparently too precious to
be confided to a stick, for there was no sign of
such an article about his person. He was walking
on the opposite side of the road to Eobur,
and as far away from him as possible.

Good night," said Arnold, as this apparition
shambled past.

There was no answer, or any indication on
the part of the person thus saluted that he was
conscious of being addressed.

Arnold's curiosity was aroused ; was the
fellow deaf or mad ? His extraordinary gait
pointed to the latter supposition.

Standing in the middle of the road Arnold
commanded a full view of him for some distance
as he receded down it. Suddenly he uttered an
exclamation of surprise, and putting his hands
to his mouth shouted " HuUoa ! " several times.
But the stranger made no response, and was
quickly out of sight behind a bend. Left to
himself again Arnold took a look all round,
as if he rather expected to have attracted
the notice of other nocturnal ramblers by his

vociferations. Nothing stirred, however ; and
the comicality of the situation struck him so irresistibly
as he stooped to hunt for his pipe, which
he had accidentally dropped in the grass by the
wayside, that he was forced to sit down on the
gate with it in his hand, and laughed silently
till his sides ached.

What in the world possessed me to make
such a fool of myself 1 " he chuckled ; " staring
at the moon makes one superstitious, I suppose.
However, it's only natural that every idiot I
meet should remind me of the young beggar."

The freshening breeze made him feel chilly,
so he leaped from the gate, and turned his face
homewards. But, try as he would to banish
his late disturbance of ideas, and return to his
former meditation, Frank Dalton would get
mixed up with them in the oddest manner. Ho
could not bear to think of Ursula with the lout's
vacant, expressionless face always peeping over
her shoulder ; so after many vain attempts he
give up altogether. Combatting his reluctance
to contemplate any other object at the present
moment, he began to turn over the contents of
Grace's letter in his mind. She had mentioned
her suspicion that Frank had lately been getting
into bad company, and alluded to his reticence
as to what he did at Copesbury, an unusual
display of caution on the boy's part. "She

is SO used to the absence of good qualities in him,"
mused Arnold, " that she might be pardoned
for supposing this to be a hopeful sign merely
because it is an uncommon one, poor little
thing."

He did not mean to be uncharitable, but there
are times when the best of us may be rather
hard on the ingratitude from which our friends
suffer. Sympathy for the sister had been setting
him gradually against the brother ever since he
came back from abroad, and saw how the wind
was blowing. But there was one passage in
Grace's appeal which he could not forget, and
the memory of it had a chastening effect upon
his resentment.

Don't be hard upon him," it ran ; " his
chances have not been very great, when one
comes to think of it." Arnold thought of Mrs.
Dalton, and acknowledged that there was some
justice in this remark. The letter concluded with
these words, — '' I wish you could get rid of your
dislike to poor Frank. It would be the first
step towards persuading him to like you, and
this would give you a hold over him which
I know you would turn to account for the
happiness of all of us."

She was a good sister, this girl. There might
be nothing else in her, but some people would
have known how to value the half-loaf in her

case. Well, he would try to please her in this
respect. He would begin acting the part of
elder brother to both of them by looking up
Frank for himself on the morrow.

He walked on ; it seemed colder, and there
were some clouds on the horizon. Beyond the
bend in the road round which the mysterious
pedestrian had disappeared the way ran in a
straight line for a considerable distance, and
there were no lanes turning out of it. Arnold
looked for any traces of this eccentric person,
but none were visible. Presently he quickened
his pace with the intention of catching up the
other, or keeping him in sight. He had walked
about a mile and a half at no mean pace without
catching a glimpse of a human being in front of
him when he came to the hill which bounded
the view from his windows at Oakleigh towards
Burfield. Here he gave up the chase, feeling
convinced that the object of it must have taken
to his heels as soon as he was out of sight, or
left the beaten track for a more adventurous
route across country. The hill seemed longer
to-night than usual as he trudged through the
deep cutting, and looked up at the high banks
on each side covered with furze - bushes, and
surrounded by a thick belt of firs which he had
often compared to a group of sentinels on duty
over the approach to the village. Their sombre

crests stood out in well-defined outline against
the paler tint of the sky, and as they swayed
slowly backwards and forwards, sometimes almost
touching each other, Arnold fancied that they
were communicating their recognition of him all
down the file, whispering that he was privileged
to pass unchallenged. Arrived at the top he
stood still for a moment, gazing over a little
copse of evergreens, which lined a steep slope
on his right, at the broad roof and quaint
chimneys of his home. The lower part was
hidden from sight by the foliage of the copse,
as it descended, and became merged in the trees
and shrubberies of his own garden ; but the
mass above was not intercepted, and his eyes
rested on the surface of the familiar eaves and
gables distorted into fantastic shapes by the
moonlight.

Now it is a matter of every-day experience
that when we are looking, however intently, at
a certain object, our attention may be distracted
by something else, not immediately in our line
of vision, but yet not outside its range. A
slight movement in the bushes close before him,
accompanied by a momentary gleam of light,
caused Arnold to suddenly drop his eyes to a
level with this unexpected phenomenon. Someone
was in the copse with a lantern, and he
knew who that someone was. His instinct had

not been mistaken in connecting: the stranger
of the road with Frank Dalton, in spite of his
long coat and assumed carriage ; for during the
brief interval between the accidental turning-on
of the lantern and its hasty extinction the light
fell full upon its owner's face as he crouched in
the covert, revealing enough of his garb to
establish the identity beyond all doubt.

What cau he be there for ? " wondered
Arnold. His first impulse was to hail him
again ; but reflecting that Frank was evidently
determined to keep out of his way, he resolved
to go on down the hill till he should reach a
gate that turned into one of the Oakleigh fields,
and then work his way safely through the copse
so as to take the young gentleman by surprise
in the rear. Perhaps Frank had been too much
occupied with his lantern to notice the other's
close ]proximity ; if so, he must be caught before
he had time to take alarm and escape. It would
never do for the boy to get away unchecked.
Who could tell what mischief might not be
averted if he was only stopped now ? He might
be on the point of running away from home in
some mad freak. Yes ; for his sister's sake he
must be stopped.

For his sister's sake. — Where was Grace now
that the catastrophe which she had vaguely
foreshadowed was coming on so fast that no

intervention could ward it off? Could she have
known when she parted from him last what
guilt he would have recklessly incurred before
their next meeting. Oh, Frank ! use this last
chance ; stop yourself this once, and think ;
there is no time for anyone else to hinder you
from sealing your future hopes with a fearful
crime !

It was too late. As Arnold started to execute
his manoeuvre Frank stole noiselessly forward.
His lantern was useless, but he did not want it.
There was light enough, and his hand never
trembled as he raised it, never shook as he let
loose his leaden messenger on its coward's errand.

A dull report, a short groan as the victim fell

these sounds produced an overpowering effect on
the perpetrator of the mischief. He shuddered,
turned sick, and sank against the trunk of a

tree His hat fell off ; his forehead was

damp with perspiration, and the blast upon it
seemed to be cold as ice. Chilled through as it
was, however, it went on throbbing, throbbing,
would it never stop ? Something must have
happened to make him feel like this : What ?
His right arm was getting numbed ; he tried
to move it, but could not do so. Something
seemed to hold it down, something in his hand.
He strove to unclasp his fingers, and see what it
was they held, but they only clung the tighter

to it. He had slid into a sitting posture with
his back against the tree, and for a Httle he
remained quite passive, making no attempt to
think or move. A scream roused him from his
stupor ; it was an owl, whose peace of mind had
been disturbed by the scene to which it had just
been made an unwilling witness. The boy started
violently as it flapped heavily by, repeating its
dismal note till it was out of hearing'; and the
shock brought him to his senses. His hand grew
slack, the pistol dropped from its grasp, and he
knew what he had done. He tottered to his
feet, and began to grope unsteadily for the
lantern. After some labour it was found, and
replaced, together with the pistol, in his pocket.
Then he put on his hat. Next he considered the
position ; had he got everything ? Was it safe
to go back now as he had come ? Casting many
furtive glances round him, but always studiously
avoiding the spot where the body had fallen, he
decided these interrogatories in the affirmative,
and scrambling through the bushes and undergrowth,
emerged upon the road. Here he paused,
irresolute whether to continue his way home at
once, or turn to see the extent of his revenge
upon his foe. Prudence was not the only motive
which urged the former course upon him. Setting
forward in the direction of Burfield he
slouched along in the shadow of the hedges, not

daring to look behiDcl him. This feelings; soon
became exacerbated into an agony of fear. What
if he had killed Arnold ? He had only meant to
hurt him, of course ; it would be horrible if he
had put him finally beyond the reach of malice.
As he neared home he would have given anything
to know that his enemy was alive, but he
could not have gone back to see what had happened
; his nervous panic and the lateness of the
hour were both against such a proceeding.

Meanwhile the object of all this solicitude was
slowly making his way towards consciousness.
When that stage was finally reached he found
himself lying on his side with one of his arms
tucked under him in an exceedingly uncomfortable
and even painful position. At first he
could not help stupidly wondering who had put
it there ; then he got a step further, and began
to feel some surprise that he had chosen that
precise spot to go to sleep in, it was the hardest
and the bleakest bed he could remember to have
ever had. Besides, was it not within a stone's-throw,
almost, of his own comfortable mattress ?
Ah, now he remembered how it all came about ;

at least he carried his free hand to his head,

and felt that his hair was matted with the blood
from his wound. Yes, yes, to be sure, he had been
struck by some weapon. It had seemed to come
up behind him, and then he had forgotten

everything. How long was that ago ? Ten
minutes or ten years ? He would not take out
his watch to try and see the time ; it had been
his father's, and must not be stained with the
blood on his fingers. An interval followed,
during which he propped himself up against
a mound of stones, put there for the purpose
of mending the road. Then he fell to chafing
his bruised arm ; this done, he contrived, not
without much pain and trouble, to make a
bandage for his head with his handkerchief.
Many were the fruitless attempts to stand from
which he fell back exhausted. However, it was
accomplished at last, and with frequent stoppages
he managed to drag his feet along until the lodge
at the entrance to the avenue was reached. The
windows were dark, the gardener's family who
occupied it having long since gone to bed.
Arnold was reluctant to disturb them, but there
was no help for it ; he could not walk a step
further without more support than his stick gave
him. He was just about to apply that useful
prop to the window-pane when he saw a light
comiuo- down the drive. This made him desist,
and a moment later Gibbins' honest face was
bending over him, and the homely Samaritan
was pouring metaphorical oil and wine into his
master's wound. The patient was weak from loss
of blood, and fainted in the bailiff's arms before

he could be got to the house. When he did get
there his old nurse's care soon brought him
round, however, and he was able to tell Mr.
Dal ton, when that gentleman was brought over
from Beau Sejour by Gibbins in the gig early
next morning, that if this sort of thing went
on much longer he should be spoiled for life.
Paston was telegraphed for by Mr. Dalton's
advice, and fortunately was able to come. It
was a pleasant surprise for Arnold when the
doctor made his appearance, for they had said
nothing about expecting him for fear of causing
possible disappointment to the invalid.

Paston had rushed away from town impetuously
directly the summons arrived, leaving
things to " right themselves," as he said, and
his patients in the hands of a brother practitioner.
But he did not mention this. The
doctor had one lamentable fault, or perhaps it
would be fairer, as well as more charitable, to
call it a delusion ; he laboured under the extraordinary
and reprehensible belief that fibbing
was part of his profession. It is, no doubt,
to be traced to the influence of this sin ovular
delusion, therefore, that upon Arnold's enquiring
whether he had not neglected others to come
and see him Paston replied with alacrity,
Haven't got another case to attend to just
now, upon my honour. Why, business is so

VOL. II. M

(lull that I am positively inclined to treat this
knock of yours as a godsend."

'' I must have tripped over something, and
fallen upon the heap of stones by which I found
myself when I came to," said Arnold ; " it stunned
me, and I've lost some blood, but there's nothing
else the matter."

"Ah, I see," replied the doctor ; " come, let me
examine the place." This was the very last thing
Arnold wanted, as he was extremely anxious
that a fictitious report of the matter should
be circulated. He was not strong enough, however,
to resist long ; so after framing a few lame
excuses he submitted to examination. It was
completed without a word from either of them,
and Paston left his friend to go to sleep while he
went down-stairs to writers prescriptions, which
a man on horseback was waiting to take over to
the chemist at Burfield.

"Humph," soliloquized the doctor, as soon as
the messenger had been despatched, and he had
returned to the library fire ; " this is an odd sort
of wound for a stone to make, — or even a whole
heap of stones. Let me see ; wound of entrance
just behind occiput-parietal suture ; then it goes
skirting round parietal, temporal, and frontal
bones, and there is a ragged wound of exit close
above the superciliary ridge ; he'll have a slight
permanent scar there, I should say. It's a pity

he hasn't kept the stone that did it, now. That
would be a curiosity worth having. Why, bless
my heart," — and here he looked round defiantly,
as if to court contradiction, — " I've heard of stone
cannon-balls, but I never yet came across anyone
who was in the habit of loading pistols with stone
bullets."

M 2

CHAPTEE VIII.

"abi in malam rem."

For me, undoubtedly
The cutting of my hair concerns me more :
Because, however sad the truth may seem,
Sludge is of all importance to himself."

Robert Browning.

Frank Dalton was not one of those who

habitually pursue and catch the early worm ;

rather he endorsed the sentiment of him who

was astonished at the folly of the early worm for

rising untimely. But, in spite of the heroic

material in his composition, his nerves as yet

were not of the strongest : a weakness to be

pardoned on the score of his youth. Hence his

slumbers on the night of his brilliant vindication

of injured womanhood were slight, and perturbed ;

he tossed upon his couch, and the sheets got

rucked up : the pillow was hot, and a hot pillow

is irritating ; in short, at about eight o'clock,

bed had become so painfully uncomfortable, and

sleep had so completely deserted him, that he

rose and arrayed himself, and descended to the
breakfast-room three full quarters of an hour
earlier than he had been known to appear on the
scene for years.

In the room he found Grace ; and signs, as of
someone having already breakfasted ; remnants
of eo^o:s and coffee. Grace herself was standing
by the fire with an anxious look on her face as
she turned towards the door on his entrance.

She greeted him with, " Oh Frank, have you
heard ? "

Frank was panic-stricken. He had come down
with an uneasy consciousness that his early appearance
would inevitably entail sarcastic compliments
from his father, and awkward questions
from Grace. But his father had apparently gone
out : Grace was too much alarmed by something
even to notice his own unusual conduct. He
sprang to the first conclusion that offered : Arnold
was dead or dying, his father had been summoned
to Oakleigh, and Grace was overcome by the
news. He turned white with, shuddering terror,
and could scarcely control himself enough to
gasp out —

Heard ? no. What's happened ? "

Something has happened to Arnold, I don't

know what ; and papa was sent for, and had

to go off in a hurry. There was an accident

of some sort, and I'm afraid it's very bail,

though we couldn't make the story out. Poor
Arnold ! "

Grace's vague alarm did not tend to set
Frank's fear at rest by any means. But, frightened
as he was, he tried hard not to show it :
and proceeded to do the next worst thing under
the circumstances.

Oh, that's all rot, Grace," he said ; "the way
you folks all take on about Robur is enough to
make a fellow savage." He went to the window,
not venturing to face his sister. His words
came hoarsely and uneasily. " Precious lot of
this beastly fuss you'd make about me if some
fellow had smashed me." Frank's lano^uao^e was
ever terse and idiomatic ; but he spoke as a fool.
Luckily Grace did not think of putting any
meaning on his last words. But their brutality
roused her.

Frank ! " she said. That was all : but there
was a great deal concentrated in it.

Her brother wheeled round. His remarks had
a stirring effect on himself as well as on Grace.
She was indignant now, as well as frightened.
He was already, after his manner, persuading
himself that he really was an atrociously ill-used
being.

Well, what's the row now ? " he said sulkily.

Grace's eyes had filled with tears. The combination
of painful feelings was too much for her.

Oh, Frank," she said, breaking down, " how
dare you talk so ? " She dropped her head on
the table, and cried. Poor little soul ! She was
a good girl, fond of Arnold, fond of Frank, who
gave her a woefully hard time of it even under
ordinary circumstances : Gibbins, who had come
over with a portentously long face, an incomprehensibly
confused story, and an air of exaggerated
lugubriousness, promising no hope of a
"brighter side o' things," had frightened her
about his master ; and Frank's merciless brutality
was more than she could bear. She sobbed
pitifully.

This was more than Frank had bargained for.
He had been gloriously bent on avenging what
he had conceived as Arnold's cruel treatment
of his sister ; and behold, here was the victim
herself weeping bitterly for her injurer's sufferings
! Frank's philosophy was too shallow for
the solution of this puzzling situation. She
ought, according to his view, to have rejoiced ;
but these were not the tears of triumphant
joy. He began to think that perhaps he had
made a slight mistake somewhere : though the
thought only took the form of some extra uneasiness.
What on earth was he to say ordo
? The position was eminently disagreeable.
With hands in pockets he gazed in silent
discomfort at his sister's bright head : but no

illumination came to his brain. She only
continued to sob.

Come, Grace's he said at last, '* hang it, I
don't see what there is to cry about."

No answer.

I say, you know," — he moved a little towards
her as he spoke, *^ don't go on like that."

Another pause. Frank's consolatory eloquence
did not flow freely ; and his sister's continued
tears put him out dreadfully. He felt he had
said all that could reasonably be expected of
him ; yet she wept persistently. But his embarrassment
received unexpected relief. The
door was suddenly opened by the footman, who
had come to clear away the remnants of Mr.
Dalton's hurried repast. That admirable and
judicious functionary had no sooner appeared
than he vanished again ; surmises from Grade's
position that his presence might be inconvenient ;
and proceeded to make strange clattering outside
with a tea-tray. But the spell was broken.
With a strong effort Grace recovered herself, and
dried her eyes rapidly. Frank stood still, awkward
and silent. The footman reappeared, cleared
the table promptly, repaid it for breakfast clamorously,
and disappeared. Frank began to feel a
little hopeful.

But the interruption had turned the current
of Grace's ideas. Frank was now uppermost in

her mind ; and force of habit prompted her to
lecture him. She spoke with asperity, as she
began to make the tea.

What has brought you down so early today
? We have generally finished breakfast by
the time you are ready to begin."

Well, hang it, when a fellow does get upon
a beastly cold morning like this, you might
have something better to say than slanging
him."

Grace tilted the kettle over the tea-pot.

Now, Frank, I do wish you wouldn't use
words like that. And you know it's quite
true. I don't understand what has brought
you down so soon. I didn't expect you till
nine at least'

Why, a fellow can have a headache without
being abused for it, I should have thought."

Whenever Frank held himself up as an injured
being, he generalised : and spoke of himself
vaguely as " a fellow."

A headache ! People don't generally get up
early because they have headaches, and I'm sure
you don't. I suppose you got it over at Copes-bury,
or something of that kind. What kept
you out so late last night ? "

'' bother it all, do shut up that eternal
nagging. Can't you let me be, when I tell you
I've o't a headache % "

The unfortunate youth was growing painfully
nervous. Grace was getting on dreadfully dangerous
ground ; how on earth was he to invent
excuses enough to put her off, and remember
them afterwards ? Another respite came, however.
Mrs. Dalton entered. Grace's rebukes
were silenced for the time.

The lady of the house bustled in noisily.

Dear me, Frank ! well, I'm sure ! good morning,
my dear. Grace, I do hope breakfast is
nearly ready. Come and give me a kiss, you
foolish boy. How dreadfully cold ! And your
father sent for to Oakleigh ! Grace, are you
quite sure the water was boiling ? Because tea
made with water that isn't boiling is so very
nasty. Poor dear Arnold ! how dreadful it
would be if he was killed ! Frank dear, give
me an egg please. What is the matter ? dear
me, you're not looking at all well."

Frank shuddered. His mother's chance expressions
awakened his fears to their liveliest
again ; at the word " killed " he had turned quite
white, and her attention was attracted. He
stammered out something incoherent about a
headache, as he passed the egg.

'' A headache ? dear, I hope you're not
going to have something dreadful. I know,
when I got scarlet fever it began with a headache,
and I was very ill. I'm sure I don't know

how I ever got over it ; only we had such a good
doctor. Are you quite sure you haven't got a
rash ? Not that a rash makes much difference.
Grace had the fever lons^ before the rash came
out, Mr. Jackson said. I wish Mr. Jackson was
here, the doctors here are so very bad. I know
some people think ever so much of Mr. Wilson
at Copesbury, but he has never done me any
good. And that reminds me that I know there's
been a great deal of scarlet fever at Copesbury.
Frank dear, I do think you'd better go to bed
again. Give me the toast please, Grace. Whatever
we shall do I don't know, with poor Arnold
dead, and you down with scarlet fever, it's
dreadful. I do wish your father would come
back, only he never knows what to do, and why
that man Gibbins came over for him I'm sure I
don't know."

Mother ! " said Grace, who was rapidly nearing
the break-down point of misery again, "how
can you talk like that ? Arnold isn't dead ; I'm
sure he isn't," — she choked a little, but recovered
herself — " and Frank's only got a headache."

'^ Grace, my dear, I'm ashamed of you. I'm
sure Frank's dreadfully ill ; just look at him," —
Frank was certainly pale — " and how you can
talk about a headache like that I don't know.
But you're always so unkind to him, I don't
believe you have any feeling at all, and you

don't seem to care a bit about poor Arnold being
murdered. I'm sure it's some of his tenants
been trying to murder him, because I know it
was something about his head being hurt ; and
what with Gladstone and Parnell and all these
people, it's no wonder ; though what they do it
for I don't know ; is it very bad, Frank dear ? "

Frank's symptoms of uneasiness had been
growing rapidly. As a matter of fact, there had
been no suspicion of the cause of the accident :
Arnold's own statement that he had fallen and
struck his head had been unhesitatingly accepted
by his dependents, and the idea of murder was
a new and original one of Mrs. Dalton's own
brilliant imagination. The suggestion, coming
so alarmingly near the truth, was more than
Frank could stand. He rose.

'rit's awfully bad," he said, "and I want to
go and get quiet. And for goodness' sake don't
bother me."

He fled, and left Grace to suffer the miseries
of her mother's terrible conversation. He had
had a thoroughly bad time of it. After his wild
attempt to punish Arnold he had been quite
overcome by complicated terrors ; partly of discovery,
trial, imprisonment, perhaps death ;
partly from the acute reaction of his nervous
system : partly from an unaccustomed sense of
crime. He had fled home, he hoped, unnoticed :

but every rustle of the hedges, every distant
hoot of the bird of night, filled him with alarm :
the " broad open eye of the solitary sky '' gazed
down on him pitilessly ; the wan light of the
moon struck him with vaoaie trembling : he had
escaped to bed unquestioned ; yet he suspected
suspicion. All night as he tossed on his thorny
couch, worried by the prickles of blankets, he
rehearsed the scene he had gone through, with
variations : when he did get to sleep the cry of
the owl, the crack of the pistol, Arnold's groan
as he fell, mingled with his dreams. He saw-arnold
Divino' dead on a bier, and risings ghastly
and bloody to denounce him ; Rock appeared to
his sleeping visions putting on a black cap over
a flowing; wig;, and handing; him over to Mack to
be executed. Awake or asleep, there was little
difference in his sufferings. He had been on
tenter-hooks when he talked to Grace : he had
been on the rack while his mother babbled, after
her merciless fashion. From them he escaped,
but he could not escape from himself Alas
Arnold dead ? Alas he very badly hurt ? Had
he recognised and denounced his assassin ? "When
Captain Mack, or any of his favourite novelists
talked of vengeance, it had sounded attractive,
manly, heroic. — but their accounts did not tally
with his experience. He was ready to swear
never to take vengeance on anybody any more.

As he paced his^room, or flung himself 'on his
bed, the same series of questions whirled round
and round in his brain in endless circles, and
still no answer came to any of them. He could
only wait in misery. Two or three times he
thought of flight, but he felt it was hopeless.

So passed the morning tempestuously. He
descended to lunch, dishevelled and wretched :
his general appearance was by no means such as
to dispel the maternal fears that held spasmodic
carnival in Mrs. Dalton's mind. But the first
sight that greeted his eye was a welcome one —
the hall-door opening to admit his father. Grace
had spied him, and was quick to let him in.
Frank held back. What if his own share in the
accident was known ? He heard the quick question,
and saw the cheerful expression on Mr.
Dalton's face as he replied :

I don't think there is any need to be
alarmed."

Grace heaved a Teat sio^h of relief. Frank's
internal barometer rose suddenly from " stormy "
to '' fair."

Oh, papa, I a?}i so glad." Grace's forehead
had recovered its normal smoothness, as she
kissed her father gratefully for his good news.
I have been so anxious : and mamma — "

Well, dear, is it very dreadful ? I'm sure I
haven't known what to do all the morning, what

with Frank's headache, and the anxiety, and Fm
so afraid it's scarlet fever. I do hope he isn't
killed, but then I'm always so afraid of being too
sanguine, and if it is scarlet fever I'm sure this
will all make it ever so much worse." ]airs.
Dalton rustled confusedly on to the scenes ; she
was wound up to talk for an hour, and nothing
but her husband's decisive interruption could
have stopped her.

Frank's headache indeed ! If it had come
from overwork I shouldn't mind. The voudo^

o

gentleman isn't much o-iven that wav — more's
the pity — and perhaps it'll do him some good.
It'll need to, if he's to do anv o'ood in the world.
Arnold is not killed, I'm happy to say ; but he's
had a nasty fall, that's wdiat he's had : just a
very nasty falL" Mr. Dalton's air challenged
contradiction, as he nodded in the direction of
his son.

Then he isn't very bad ? " interrogated Frank.
A load had been taken from his spirit by his
father's words.

I didn't say that," quoth Mr. Dalton obstinately.
*' Who are you that's talking about being
bad ? I'll trouble you not to twist my words
after that fashion : " and he half-shut his eyes,
as he threw his head back, and gazed at his
hopeful offspring through his spectacles. " I
never said he wasn't bad. He is bad. So would

anyone be with ,a hole in his head, I should
think. A deal worse than you are, young man,
I expect. But that chap Paston will pull him
through all right. There's nothing to be frightened
about. Have you anything for a man to
eat, gu id wife ? "

And so the party adjourned for lunch : and
the tide of Mrs. Dalton's eloquence was loosed.
Wherefore we will close the dining-room door.

The effect on Frank of the welcome intelligence
was great. The burden of terror vanished from
his spirit, the visions of retribution melted from
his brain. His headache was now, as the papers
say, matter of history. It would not be true to
say that his conversation became lively : because
it is not on record that it ever was lively, since
the early weeks in his career when it was discovered
that he was a wonderful baby and took
such a deal of notice : when unintelligible mumblings
were translated by a nurse learned in
tongues, and having the gift of interpretation,
into expressions of violent affection. But on
that afternoon, it certainly came much nearer
liveliness than usual. So genuine indeed did his
satisfaction at Arnold's escape appear, that Grace
really began to think her brother was showing
signs of improvement, and repented and apologised
for her severity in the morning, apologies
graciously accepted. Mr. Dalton, being in a

good humour, was exceptionally contradictory,
as was his wont ; but his gibes when he was in
this mood were not irritating. Mrs. Dalton, on
the strength of the headache, was exclusively
tender ; and on the whole Frank had a very
pleasant time of it indeed ; and when he arose
next morning to depart for Copesbury his heart
was unusually light.

Mr. Rock's extensive second-hand library
loaded the shelves in strange partnerships, or lay
on the floor in promiscuous piles, laden with the
dust of years. The humble spider, symbol of
domesticity, with careful weaving on the windowpanes
had dispelled the too inquisitive rays of
the winter sun, aided by the kindly gifts of
mother earth scattered lavishly from the daily
cart-wheel. Her sign manual, desecrated by
the prying broom, was left on most available
corners ; casual streamers, dust-laden, depended
from a ceiling that may be supposed to have
once been white ; and on a lofty stool, with
slippered feet tucked in, and loose locks, Mr.
Rock himself

'• Sat in the midst with arms akimbo.' '

The worthy old gentleman was in high spirits.
He was of opinion that the web had been craftily
woven ; his judicious blandishments, aided by
the attractions of his veracious comrade, had

VOL. II. N

had, he thought, a most satisfactory effect upon
the fly, who seemed inclined to respond to his
invitation without even offering the mild remonstrances
of that other little fly whose piteous tale
is told in the pathetic ballad to which we have
all listened in our early years. He sat on his
stool revolving many things in his mind : he
contemplated with unspeakable satisfaction the
vision of Master Frank standing in the felon's
dock : the thought of that unlucky boy's countenance
as the judge mounted the black cap filled
Mr. Rock's soul with a delight that was positively
excruciating ; while the easy removal from the
scenes of a gentleman who might otherwise some
day make very awkward discoveries was a most
agreeable subject for his imagination to dwell on.
There is a popular impression that murders are
not committed without strong motives. Hence,
to the popular mind, the records of the police
news are extremely puzzling. Somebody is violently
assaulted, or slain ; somebody else is taken
up ; evidence is strong, not to say irresistible ;
but there appears to be no tolerably adequate
motive. This is unfathomable. Juries, however,
have learned, by experience or otherwise,
that a very slight motive is quite sufficient. Tous,
the idea of slaying a man is so intensely
repugnant that it seems incomprehensible that
any one should feel careless on the subject ; but

there is a very large section of society which
really cares no more for human life than for the
life of rats or beetles. These gentlemen hesitate
to remove difficulties from their path merely
because the natural course is attended with
considerable danger. Rock had absolutely no
motive for wishing Arnold Robur out of the way,
except that his removal would secure himself and
Edwards from inconvenient discoveries beinor
made ; and seeing that there was a tool to do
the business with conveniently handy, while his
own share in the matter would never be disclosed,
it did not occur to this prudent person that
there was any possible ground for avoiding bloodshed.
As for the tool, he was really such a consummate
ass — besides beings a bore — that his
premature disappearance would be no subject for
regret; and the fact of his being a "gentleman"
would give a dramatic interest to the whole affair
which was positively delightful.

So Mr. Rock sat in his shop and chuckled. He
had descended from his 'pretty little parlour"
up-stairs to hunt out an odd volume that some
chance customer had been enquiring about ; but
his imagination on this particular morning was so
peculiarly lively that he had to pause in his search
and take up his position on the stool to enjoy the
delightful situation thoroughly. And in this
attitude Frank found him.

N 2

Frank entered with a cheerful countenance.
Good morning, father Hiram," quoth he.

Rock smiled benignly as he descended from
his stool and greeted his protege.

Good morning, my young Hector," he exclaimed
cheerfully. " Come in, come in, and
tell me the news." He led the way up-stairs.
A glass of grog now, and a pipe. Ah ! he was
a great man who invented baccy. How the late
Duke of Washington, used to hold forth about
baccy now ! poor old chap ; he was a great friend
of mine, was the Duke ; used to come to me to
supply him with quotations for his speeches in
the Lords. Dear me ! dear me ! he's dead : all
the old fellows are dead. They had no constitutions.
Now I have. That's why I've outlived
them, you see. Yes, and I rather think, I rather
think," rubbing his hands, " that I shall outlive
their sons too. Now you oughtn't think it, but
I really shouldn't wonder if I outlived you ;
not a bit ; " and the old reprobate chuckled.
Frank had not the slightest suspicion of the
cheerful fate his erudite friend was counting on
for him.

Well, give us some liquor anyhow, old man,
and don't go preaching about a damned lot of old
fools who died because they couldn't take care of
themselves. Easy : that'll do," as Rock filled his
glass. " Here's your health, Mr. Rock, and success

to you and your friends, especially Captain Mack."
Frank tilted the liquor down gleefully.

Same to you, sir, same to you ; and a speedy
settlement to all your enemies." Mr. Kock
followed his young friend's example.

''Ah!" said Frank: "you know, I had an
awful shave, but things came must rio;ht. Hit
him — enough to make him precious uncomfortable
; and. they all think he bashed his beastly
head on some stones."

Eh ? what ? "

Frank replied without looking up. *' Why, I
hit him. Jove ! you know, it was beastly risky ;
might have killed him, and got in a devil of a
mess. But I just hit him on the head, and down
he went with his head on a lot of stones, and they
all think he cut his head on them ; and he's
thundering bad now, and he'll just about wear
my mark to the day of his death. And there's
not a soul has a notion I did it. Jove ! it's
splendid ! "

Frank threw himself back in his chair to
enjoy his success, and observe Mr. Rock's admiration
for his valorous conduct. But his gratification
was short-lived.

For the bookseller's appearance was surprising,
not to say alarming. Storm-clouds were
gathering about the hoary summit of Mr. Rock.
His snowy hair was bristling : his brows were

wrathfully bert: his eyes flashed fury : his venerable
beard wore a positively prophetic aspect. He
had grown two inches taller in his slippers.

'' What ! " he cried, " you let off that young
cannon at him, and did t kill him ? "

Why, yes," faltered Frank. " What the devil's
np now ? "

*' Young man," said Rock — and his voice was
as the voice of a seer — " young man, can you
dare to come into the presence of one like me,
with the weight of years upon my head ; with
the snowy locks of age upon my brow : one who
has been on terms of the closest intimacy with
the highest of the aristocracy : one who numbers
among his associates the great, the pious, the
noble Mack — dare you, I say, come into my presence,
and name yourself as one who has shed
the blood of his fellow man 1 " Mr. Rock was
terrible in his wrath. Frank was dumb foundered
wholly.

"You," continued the preacher, "who have
drunk of my grog : not my grog only, but my
port, my very best port — who have smoked with
me : who have conversed with my valiant, my
knightly companion, him whom I am proud to
call my friend. Captain Mack : dare you speak
such words to me ? "

If Frank's backbone had been extracted he
could not have looked more hopelessly limp than

ABI IN MALAM REM. 183

he did now. This attack from the very man who
had egged him on to attempt Arnold's life made
his brain reel.

Why," he growled, " what the devil d' you
mean ? It was you and that damned Mack
made me do it."

Mr. Rock's eyes positively blazed. " What ! "
he snorted, " I ? and Mack ? We made you doit
? Oh ! to have nourished this viper in my
bosom ! Oh ! to have warmed him at my fire !
I ! and ]\Iack ! take care : take care : say another
word, and you shall be summonsed for libel : and
the whole world shall know your crime, your
cruel, heartless wickedness. But no ! Boy, I
will spare you." Mr. Rock's melodramatic
power was not great ; but he found it useful
at times.

"But Mack shall know," he went on ; " that
whole-souled king of men shall know of your
contemptible depravity : he shall know that he
has grasped the hand of one on whose head is the
guilt of blood ! Go ! begone ! and never pass
my door again. You hopeless Idiot."

Frank departed from the house, confused
beyond measure. Rock stood at the door with
outstretched arms and wrathful mien, like a
patriarch driving the heathen from him. Then,
after the patriarchal manner — though in a slightly
different terminology — he cursed Frank.

Probably the blasphemy which permeated Mr.
Rock's emporium for the next twenty minutes
exceeded, if not in quantity at least in quality
and volume, all the blasphemies of Copesbury in
twelve ordinary calendar months.

CHAPTEE IX.

NOT IN THE Pharmacopoeia.

Sirrah, thou art said to have a stubborn soul,
That apprehends no further than this world,
And squarest thy life according; thought condemned :
But, for those earthly faults, I quit them all ;
And pray thee, take this mercy to provide
For better times to come." — Measure for Measure.

Look here, Paston : it's bad enough to have
a hole made in one side of my head ; but when
the other side takes to throbbing and shooting
more than the damaged one, I call it rather too
much of a good thing."

Arnold shifted uneasily under the bed-clothes.
It was the second morning after his accident,
and he was lying much bandaged up, and looking
a good deal the worse for wear. The doctor
eyed him with an air of benignant interest.

"Ah!" he said in a tone of more satisfaction
than sympathy ; " right temple ? Contre-coup, my
dear fellow, that's all : you needn't be uneasy :
it's common enough. Merely another instance

of the general cussedness of things." It is to be
feared that to Paston Eobur was now more thana
friend : he was a patient.

Cussedness ! " groaned Arnold, '' I begin to
suspect that cussedness is the rule instead of
the exception, a systematic arrangement for the
general annoyance. The whole thing is an instance
of cussedness from one end to the other."

Yes," quoth Paston, crossing one leg over
the other ; " cussedness extraordinary, especially
on the part of those remarkable stones. A most
interesting case, apparently in defiance of all
known natural laws. The normal stone is jagged,
and cuts accordingly : but this one seems to have
been rounded for the occasion, and projected in
an inexplicable manner. Eeally, a most peculiar
stone."

Arnold was silent for a few moments. Then
he said with a half smile —

Well, well, I suppose it's useless trying to
deceive you," — *' Quite," interpolated the other
with a nod, — " so I may as well own to having
been selected as a suitable target for pistol
practice."

"Ah!"

''I don't want the facts to be known; which
was my reason for inventing the other explanation."


"Precisely. But circumstances being against

you, somebody discovered the facts. Luckily the
somebody was myself, and they have gone no
farther at present."

Seeing you have found out so much, you
may as well have the whole story ; I can trust
you not to talk about it. That young scamp
Frank Dalton did it."

Frank Dalton ? Good Lord ! "

My dear fellow, I am no more prepared to
explain the matter than you are. All I know is
that I saw him looking as if he had some miss



chief on hand, down in the copse : I proposed
circumventing him, and got circumvented myself
instead."

But why on earth did he do it ? " said
Paston, rising and gazing at his patient. " ^Vhy
in the name of all the gods and goddesses on
Olympus and elsewhere did he shoot at you ? "

''I tell you, I haven't a notion. He doesn't
like me, of course ; but this is beyond my comprehension.
It can't be jealousy, because there's
no one to be jealous about."

Humph ! And wdiy isn't he to be punished,
may I ask ? "

Well," said Arnold slowly, " for one thing, I
don't feel any anxiety to damage what poverty
prospects he has got of doing decently.
And, which is a good deal more important, I
don't want Grace Dalton to know of it."

There was a touch of tenderness in his voice
as he said the girl's name that made Paston's
eyebrows go up suddenly. Arnold saw the expression,
and read its meaning. He smiled.

No," he said, " there's nothing of that sort.
There isn't the dimmest chance of our marrying.
Neither of us is an atom in love with the other.
But I like her a great deal too well to be inclined
to cause her any unnecessary pain."

"AVould she care?" said Paston doubtfully.
Grace had not impressed him favourably the
niffht he took her down to dinner. " I shouldn't
have thought she was much given to feeling
strongly."

"You're wrong, my friend. She's varnished,
confoundedly, no doubt ; but there's sound
enough wood below."

Just what I thought," said the other with a
grimace.

*' Paston, if you deliberately mis translate my
language in this fashion I shall be obliged to get
rid of you, and employ a new physician. She
is not wooden. She's a very good girl, with a
mother — such a mother ! — and a brother who
wants continuous kicking. Considering the facts,
one can hardly expect much of her."

'rand one doesn't get it, judging by my
experience," growled Paston. " However, I
suppose you know her better than I do. If

lier feelings mustn't be hurt, I suppose they
mustn't."

If that doesn't melt you to mercy, you hardened
sinner, please to remember that I owe
master Frank's father a good deal, for many
kindnesses."

Frank's father — just the man who ought to
know, I should say : and then the young scapegrace
might get his deserts."

My dear man, you may as well give in without
grumbling. Wilful man will have his way,
as Mr. Dalton would say ; and on this matter I
am a wilful man."

'' Well, well," said Paston, '' I give in ; but I
will not be refused the privilege of grumbling.
I've half a mind to take it out of your precious
assassin myself." He sat down again, scowling
fiercely.

By all means," said Arnold laughing, " if you
can catch him. But you're not over likely to
find him at Beau Sejour. And you've got to
return to town to-night, you know."

Not so sure of that. I shouldn't wonder if I
had to stop up here a day or two longer to look
after you. I believe you're getting light-headed."
The doctor glared at Arnold, who only smiled.
Presently Paston went on :

I suppose I must go over to the Daltonss this
afternoon, anyhow, to pay my respects and leave

the latest bulletin. But if I do come across
Master Frank he shall hear something he won't
like. When I go I shall leave complete directions
with Mrs. Marchpane. I should say you
will be tolerably fit again in something under a
fortnight ; and then I recommend you to have
another look at the many-twinkling smile of
Ocean. Burnport will do well enough if you
like it."

"An excellent suggestion," said the patient,
with some vivacity. " But that hotel will hardly
do for a sick man to recover himself in, Fve a
notion."

Humph. No, I suppose not. Besides, you
ought to have someone to look after you a bit
at first."

Bother someone," said Arnold, sinking back
and closing his eyes. " I'm not going on . . .

jawing I shall have a snooze." And

he held his peace.

Presently Paston rose, looked at his slumbering
friend, and left the room quietly. His
threat of staying another day had no connexion
with any intention of doing so. His presence
at Oakleigh at all was by no means an unalloyed
satisfaction to himself : for his practice in town
was already considerable, and his disappearance
into the country for two whole days was not
likely to please his patients much. Now that

Eobur was practically safe, he had no business
where he was ; so he intended returning home
by an evening train, after paying his respects
at Beau Sejour. A conversation with Frank
was an additional item in the programme for
the day, to the chance of which he looked
forward with much satisfaction.

It was not till he had lunched and had another
chat with Arnold, in which it was agreed that
Paston should hint the advisability of a family
flitting to Burnport at the Daltonss', and had
learnt some more details as to the " accident,"
that he put on his great-coat and sallied forth,
pondering many things, but chiefly the most
judicious method of pounding Frank if he could
catch him. He felt vicious to-day, and in the
mood for some artistic castigation of the youth
who had so nearly succeeded in massacring his
friend. Mercy is all very well in its way, he
thought, especially when Portia talks about it,
but occasionally it is out of place. This was a
case in point. If Frank got let off this time,
there was no saying what he might not try next.
If he, Paston, had the management of matters
in his own hands, the family at least should be
made acquainted with the young ruffian's proceedings.
As it was, there was nothing to be
done but to make the most of any chance opportunity
of giving the said ruffian a bit of his

mind. But as to letting him off for Grace's sake
what did Eobur mean ? He didn't seem to be
in love with her — that would have accounted
for his blindness to her weaknesses — and yet
he did not put her in the class of wax-dolls
where Paston had in his own mind placed
her, a trifle hastily. It did not occur to the
doctor that the manner in which he had conducted
his share of the conversation at dinner
that evening was scarcely calculated to bring
out the best side of his companion's character.
He had convinced himself that she was intellectually
a " stick," with a tolerably pretty
face.

'' Mrs. Dalton at home ? "

'' Yessir. What name, sir ? Mr. Paston ?
Yessir. Mr. Paston ! "

The footman who had let him in conducted
him to the drawing-room, opened the door,
glanced in hastily, announced him syllabically,
and withdrew silently. Paston stood hat in
hand in the door way.

The only person in the room was Grace ; and
the footman had surprised her in the act of
arranging, or rather touching up, some flowers
in a vase which stood rather high, and she had
turned her face to the door without dropping
her hands. On a table close by was another
vase, with more flowers waiting to be put in,

and several ends of stalks which had been cutoff
to make refractory blossoms fit in.

If you come to think of it, there are very few
positions in which a girl looks prettier than that
in which Paston found Grace Dalton. In the
first place she cannot without a supreme effort
wear a 'society" expression; in the second,
the mere proximity of flowers will increase her
attractiveness. Then, her appearance is generally
suggestive of domestic care (not cares) :
and these charms are added to the actual grace
of the attitude. Paston became suddenly aware
that he was admiring her instead of despising
her. He tried to pull himself together and feel
contemptuous, but he failed. He had been taken
off guard, and had to surrender ignominiously.

"How do you do, Mr. Paston," said Miss
Dalton, dien she discovered the visitor. " I
mustn't shake hands with you yet, for my
fingers are weet from arranging the flowers.
There," as she wiped them, and gave him her
hand — " we so seldom have visitors that I
thought I was safe. If we had expected anyone
you wouldn't have found such a litter."

Don't mention it," said Paston ; " I like
a mess," — he was the tidiest man in the
World. Privately, he was wishing that other
girls shook hands as comfortably as his companion.


VOL. II. O

Grace laughed. " That sounds much worse,"
she said. " I prefer to call it a litter, as being
less suggestive of sickness and discomfort."

Very well ; a litter, or whatever other name
you choose to call this arrangement or disarrangement
by, is just what I like. Pray don't
let me stop you in bringing order out of the
disorder."

I thought it was the disorder you liked,"
said Grace, as she turned to her flowers.

*' Well, I own I said so, but that was due to
inadequate analysis of my feelings." He paused.

Mamma will be down directly," said Grace.
How is Arnold to-day ? We were so glad to
hear he was not seriously injured."

Oh, he's getting on all right. It was a nasty
fall, and I'm afraid there will be a scar ; but
he's perfectly safe in Mrs. Marchpane's hands."

The door opened and Mrs. Dalton sailed in.

*^Ah, Mr. Pastor, how d'you do"— ''Mr.
Paston, mamma," corrected Grace. — '' My dear,
I said Paston ; and after all what does it matter ?
A rose by any other name,' you know. And,
my dear, what a dreadful mess ! Do please
clear it away." Paston could not refrain from
a glance at Grace. '' I'm sure it's very wrong
to have things lying about in this way ; and I
do hope that heap of stones has been removed ;
it's so dangerous, you know. Poor dear Arnold !

How did he do it ? But he always was so careless,
walking about in the dark, smoking a horrid
pipe. I hope you don't smoke, Mr. Paston ? "

All * medical students ' smoke," said Paston.
That title rankled in his mind. A moment
after saying it he was sorry, not on Mrs.
Dalton's account, — she was blissfully unconscious,
but because Grace noticed the allusion, and
he saw her eyebrows come down for a moment
with a slightly troubled air.

You aren't a medical student now," she
said.

No," he answered, trying to take the meaning
out of his last remark, '' but I have been
one. Hence in part my affection for the divine
weed."

Mrs. Dalton had succeeded in completely failing
to follow these observations. Probably she
did not hear them ; at any rate she did not
take them in. All she caught was the words
medical student " ; and on to them she listened
with complacent tenacity.

I'm afraid, you know," she said, " that you
medical students" — Paston groaned inwardly,
and Grace's forehead dimpled again — " are very
irregular people. Now I wonder that you could
come away from your hospitals, or lavatories, or
whatever they are, all this time." It bei^an to
dawn on her that there was something not



exactly right in ^ lier way of putting things.
She became gracious. '' But I'm sure it's very
good of you to come clown and look after
Arnold, poor fellow. I do hope he's going to
get well again soon."

I should think he'll be pretty well again in
ten days or so ; and then I have been advising
him to go down with someone to Burn port, or
some such place, and get some change of air,
and sea breezes. But he oughtn't to go by
himself."

Dear me now, why shouldn't we all go down
there ? I'm sure it must be a very nice place,
he seems so fond of it. Grace, my dear, I don't
see any reason why we shouldn't, but your whither
is sure to object."

*' I don't think he will, mamma. Of course
he'll pretend to, and call it all womankind's
nonsense, and quote the Aiitiquar?/. But he's
sure to end up with his ' Well, well, he that will
to Cupar maun to Cupar : I've said my say. If
you must, you must, I suppose.' "

Grace laughed. In her secret heart she was
thinking that she would like to see what Ursula
Lorton was really like now ; and also that it
would be good for Frank to be removed for a
time from the neighbourhood ; for his frequent
visits to Copesbury made her uneasy. This latter
argument, she felt, was likely to have some

weight with her father, though she expected no
real opposition from him.

But Mrs. Dalton was not to be checked. If
she was not to be allowed to find a difficulty
there she must find one elsewhere.

"My dear Grace," she said, "that's just like
you, to talk about your father in that way. But
how it's to be managed I don't know. Of course
we should have to take a house, and servants
and things, and seaside lodgings are so very
unsatisfactory, always full of people with scarlatina,
or measles, or something of that sort.
And there's Frank, I really did think yesterday
he had got it" — scarlatina she meant, it maybe
presumed — " and he'd be quite sure to catch
it.

I don't think you need be alarmed about
that," said Paston, as tea was brought in ; " Burn-port
isn't one of the pet refuges for scarlatina
convalescents ; and at any rate it's pretty safe at
this season. Thanks, no suofar. And I don't
fancy you will find much difficulty in getting a
house to suit you for a few weeks."

Ah, that's all the fashion now with you
young people — you never take sugar ; but how
you can drink tea without it I can't think."
And Mrs. Dalton meandered off, babbling; of
nothing in particular, and apparently tending
anywhere rather than towards the subject on

hand, into a vague connexion with which she
occasionally brought her remarks by accident.

After some minutes Paston rose to go. " Tien
I may tell Robur," he said, as he shook hands,
that you will take him down and look after
him ? I must be off now, as I go back to town
this evening. Good-bye."

''So good of you to come and see us. Goodbye,
Mr. Paston. There, my dear, I'm sure Fve
got his name right now," sounded through the
door as he left the room, and stumbled on — •
Frank.

"Mr. Paston?" said that youth doubtfully.
*' You're Robur's doctor, aren't you ? "

*' The same," said Paston. " Mr. Frank Dalton,
I presume ? " He was considering how he could
induce the young gentleman to accompany him
outside the door. Once there, he felt sure of
not letting him go till he had offered some
friendly advice.

Yes," said the other. " How is he — Robert
mean ? "

Ah, you've got your coat on, I see. If you
don't mind strolling a bit of the way with me,
and smoking a cigar, I'll tell you all about it.
Can't say everything to the ladies, you know."

The offer of a cigar had the intended effect.
Right you are," said Frank. '' Come along.
Let's light up first, though."

They lighted up, and started.

It's rather a queer case," said Paston ; " a
nasty blow, very nasty."

I hope it's getting better," said Frank
vaguely, feeling that that was the proper thing
to say under the circumstances.

Paston looked straight in front of him. " Hem.
Well," he said doubtfully, " his progress isn't
much to boast of. — I'll give the young scamp a
bit of a scare," he thought to himself

'^ Eh ? Why "uneasily— " I thought it wasn't
supposed to be very bad."

Always hard to speak positively in such cases,
you know. Serious abrasion of the epidermis,
anyhow."

I say, you know, that sounds awfully bad, — •
isn't it ? " said Frank with uncertain grammar.
The doctor's long words frightened him, as they
were meant to do.

Well, I won't say that the parietal bones are
absolutely fractured," — Frank shuddered, — " but
it's a mercy they weren't. I trust he may
recover."

But I thought they said there was no
danger."

There's no saying," said the doctor, his voice
sinking sepulchre rally. " And then, to make
matters worse, the whole thing is so mysterious.
I have seen a good many queer things in the way

of cuts and bruises and so on, — the much enduring
Ithacan was nothing to me, I take it" — this was
a touch thrown in for Frank's benefit, — '' but I
never saw a cut like that before made by a stone."

But — but — " said Frank, miserably conscious
that he was getting very white, " it must have
been a stone, mustn't it ? "

*' Ah," said Paston, studying the distant landscape
with great apparent interest. " Well, yes,
we'll say it must have been a stone. But, you
know, it doesn't look like it. In fact — don't tell
anybody — but I have seen bullet wounds that
looked very much the same."

Frank groaned involuntarily. '' No, no," he
exclaimed hastily, " I won't tell any one."

I thought I might trust you so far," replied
the other in a pleased tone, and with an inward
chuckle. " I thought you " — with a slight accent
on the pronoun — "wouldn't be likely to talk
about it."

But I say, do you really think Eobur was
shot at ? "

Well, — in confidence, you know, — I really
think he was. It's wonderful what fools there
are in the world. That kind of thing is always
found out, and the perpetrator never gets off.
I should think the view from here must be
charming in summer."

Frank was too much frightened to answer fora

moment. Then he said with an snort, " D yuu
think he'll be caught ? '

Sure to be," replied the doctor blandly. '* In
fact there is quite enough to identify the would-be
murderer without much trouble
never blew a ring like that in the open air
before and, if the worst comes to the
worst — Hullo, you're looking very bad ; mv weed
rather strong for you, I'm afraid ; better chuck
it away — if, as I was saying, the worst comes to
the worst, Hans him. "

Paston had thoroughly succeeded in his object:
Frank was as white as a sheet with terror. His
first alarm after his shot at Arnold had given
place to a high degree of self-satisfaction ; that in
turn had given place to sheer bewilderment after
the scene with Eoek, from whom he had just
come back ; and now his original fears had
returned with tenfold vigour He leaned up
against an opportune gate, and gasped —

'•' AVait a bit." Then, recovering his presence
of mind enough to drop the cigar, he groaned,
That was a — beastly strong weed, you know*'
Under any other circumstances he would have
scorned the suggestion of anv "smoke ' behoof too
much for him ; but now it seemed his only chance.

I — I hope you'll pull Eobur through," he
said at last. "' I think I must be crowns home
a^'ain now''

*' Stop a bit," said Paston, with a dictatorial
twang in his voice, *' you aren't fit to go yet.
Stand still a minute." Frank obeyed. The
doctor went on — he was determined to prolong
the agony a little more — "Do you suppose it
could have been any of the tenants 1 "

Must have been," said Frank, who was
pulling himself together again.

Ah now, I don't know. Agrarian outrages
are all very well in their place ; but in a peaceable
country like this I can hardly believe it.
Besides, they tell me he's the best of landlords."

^' Lowered all the rents."

*' Well then, that hypothesis may be dismissed.
I incline to suspect," said the doctor, throwing
away the end of whig cigar regretfully, " that it
must have been some one with a grudge against
him. I suppose you don't know any one of the
kind ? " and he looked Frank full in the face.

N— no."

*' Sure ? " said the other, his voice hardening
suddenly.

I don't think I do," said Frank, whose colour
was going and coming under his companion's gaze.
They stood silent for a long minute in the same
attitude. Then Paston broke into a short laugh.

My young friend," he said, " it was tolerably
clear some time ago that you were aa atrocious
coward — when you blazed your confounded pistol
at Arnold Eobur from behind. But, upon my

soul, you are so much the most miserable young
funk that I ever had the misfortune to meet that
I believe I could almost pity you with a slight
effort. I did think of thrashing you ; but you
needn't be afraid. A word of advice before you
go. In the first place, thank your stars that
Arnold Eobur is in no danger at all. In the
second, a very long way second, thank them for
Eobur's merciful disposition, and your consequent
escape from notoriety. Next, feel grateful to him
for the rest of your life for letting you off; and
try to make up for the injury you have done
him. Lastly, remember that you have a father —
and sister — who care a deal more for you than
you deserve, and try for the future to disgrace
them as little as possible. Now, Go ! "

Frank slunk away with his tail between his
legs like a whipped cur. Paston watched him
some way down the road. Then he said slowly
and emphatically, " Good Lord ! "

Then he turned and moved towards Oakleio^h.
Presently he paused, and said confidentially to a
robin which was disconsolately hopping round a
holly bush in search of berries, —

After all, I think Ptobur was right not to let
the facts go farther."

The robin only said " cheep," and he went his
way.

CHz\.PTER X.

TWO IS COMPANY.

"Mercy o' me, what a multitude are here 1
They grow still too ; from all parts they are coming
As if we kept a fair here." — Henry VIII.

In due course the Dalton family arrived at
Burnport with the invalid in charge. The difficulties
Mrs. Dalton had feared proved of no
account. A letter to Miss Blunsden had resulted
in the finding of a thoroughly suitable house
facing" the sea, at no o;reat distance from the
abode of that good lady and her sister. It is
needless to say that it was Joanna, not Miss
Hilda, who had undertaken the trouble of discovering
a convenient domicile for the party ;
the Mother Superior's part being strictly confined
to criticising the arrangements with considerable
severity after they had been completed.

*'My dear Joanna," she said, "it is wonderful
to me that you will not allow me to manage these
things. You are so very unbusiness-like, so sadly

deficient in method. Now, I'm sure the drains
are wrong ; and I should have insisted on the
house being disinfected. But you are so thoughtless,
dear." Whereat Joanna smiled, but held
her peace, as her wont was. Moreover, Grace's
prophecy as to the line her father would take
proved perfectly correct ; and he had gone sofar
as even to intimate that he would be of the
party himself, with the uncomplimentary remark,
D' you think I'd be leaving Arnold Eobur to
be ruined by a parcel of womankind ? Not but
what he deserves it, the young donkey, choosing
to get himself knocked about like that." So,
bag and baggage, there the whole family were.

Grace and Ursula were pleased enough at
meeting again. It cannot be said that they had
been on terms of close intimacy in their schooldays,
— Ursula's favourite companions were nearly
always a good deal younger than herself, — but
where there has been no ill-feeling it is always
pleasant to meet an old school-fellow. Experience
teaches that where old members of the same
school find themselves in a room together, with
one or two outsiders, the conversation is apt to
become esoteric, or, in vulgar language, "shoppy" :
Don't you remember how old Thingumbob did
this ? " and '' You know when young What's-his-name
did that " ; how poor old Brown is in the
churchyard, and Jones has got married and left,

and Smith has got his house, and Robinson, who
was captain of the eleven, got badly wounded in
the Soudan, — these reminiscences of past days
are of common interest to the initiated, and
swamp all other topics : while poor A and B,
who came from two other schools, sit silent,
trying to look interested, or make desperate
efforts to start a conversation for themselves.
Ursula and Grace had always been good friends
enough ; perhaps the relations between them had
been rather closer than between Ursula and most
of the girls of her own ao^e, but nothings more.
But the circumstances which had made our
heroine isolate herself then did not act on her
with the same force as formerly ; and the two
girls extracted no small amount of pleasure out
of each other's society.

Mr. Dalton, too, found Miss Joanna's company
delightfully bracing. Had Eve, he thought, been
rather more like Miss Joanna, and rather less like
the rest of her daughters, we might never have
been troubled with the Fall and its consequent
inconveniences. As he expressed it to Arnold,
you might have been gallivanting round paradise
instead of breaking your head to bits in
that daft-like way. And if the rest of womankind
had half her sense — just one half her sense
there'd be a deal less folly in the world, let me
tell you." Nor were his wife and Miss Blunsden

less pleased with each other. They had not been
five minutes in each other's company before they
found one point of .agreement in their fear of
infection.

That's just what I told Mr. Dalton, you know.
At these seaside places they're always so careless,
and at my age, if I was to catch measles or anything
it would be dreadful, and the whole place
in disorder, and being away from home, and whatnot,
you can't think what a trouble it would be.
But Mr. Dalton's so obstinate, and he would have
us come, and with poor Arnold's lend in that
state (we always call him Arnold, you know,
because we've known him from a child, and so
delicate as he was too !). I'm sure it's dreadfully
dangerous." So spake Mrs. Dalton, and Miss
Blunsden concurred, with sundry strictures on
her sister's culpable carelessness ; adding that
she would have seen to it herself, but she was
so busy. There was a great deal of work for the
Guild to do just now, and she had to superintend
it all; for they had insisted on making her Mother
Superior, however unworthy she was of so responsible,
so sacred an office : so that of course it had
been impossible. And so from one point to
another the good ladies went on, till Mrs. Dalton
knew all about the iniquities of Mr. ]Montague,
and the admirable characteristics of the Guild,
and Joanna's thoughtlessness, and Ursula's

shocking independence, and how charming they
all thought that young Mr. Eobur; and Miss
Hilda had arrived at the surprising conclusion
that Mrs. Dalton was " a most sensible woman,
so full of sympathy and sound feeling."

But circumstances were somewhat less favourable
to the other two members of the party.
It was impossible for Frank and Arnold to feel
altogether at ease in each other's company. The
former could not avoid some slight feelings of
shame in the presence of the constant reminder
of his folly which Eobur bore, and was likely to
bear perhaps for the rest of his days, on his forehead
; while the latter, though he had allowed
Frank to go unpunished, could not bring himself
to make any formal sign of forgiveness, beyond
toleration of his society, until at least some kind
of apology had been offered : for Paston, with
grim enjoyment, had given a dramatic and vivid
relation of the conversation recorded at the close
of the last chapter. Openly therefore there was
no change in the way these two treated each
other, but in secret the breach between them,
never narrow, had widened to a gulf.

Nor was Arnold's position all that he could
have desired in other ways. Of course it was
something to look at the same sea, to walk the
same streets, to sit in the same room with
Ursula, but he hungered for something more.

Picnics, with their divine opportunities, were
impossible ; and he chafed under the miserable
fraud of afternoon tea. To sit in a chair, and
suffer Miss Hilda's outpourings of self-satisfied
gossip and fatuous intolerance ; while Mrs. Dalton
on the other side of him agreed entirely in
everything, when her words struggled into some
dim connexion with Miss Blunsden's remarks ;
to watch Ursula's profile longingly, where she sat
at the other end of the little parlour, while he
was able only to catch the sound of her voice
through the deluge about him, — these things
should doubtless have made, him thankful, but
they only made him wild, only made him yearn
the more intensely, the more bitterly, for something
real and tangible. While he was away
he felt that he would be comparatively satisfied
by the mere sight of his beloved, but now that
he was allowed to see her, and so little beyond,
it seemed to him that even absence would be
more endurable than such a mockery.

It is true that Grace, who knew the state of
affairs, and had quite got over her own fancy
that she ou^'ht to be in love with arnold, attempted
at times to arrange matters more comfortably,
seeking to plant the lover between herself
and Ursula. But her manoeuvres were not
often successful : generally they came too late,
when Arnold was already compressed between

VOL. II. p

the two elder ladies, for Miss Blunsden never
hesitated to summon him sweetly to her side,
probably to give him a word of warning as to
the proper way to diet and medicine himself.
Beef-tea and milk-puddings are the best things
in the world," she affirmed, with encouraging
iteration, while Mrs. Dalton averred that she
quite agreed. '' So wholesome ! " she said,
though I know Frank never could abide beef-tea,
poor boy, though why he shouldn't I can't
think ; and if only Arnold would take it, I'm
sure Frank would too." And by the time poor
Arnold had framed and uttered a reply which
should satisfy the two ladies without committing
him to a course of slop-taking for the term of
his natural life, the vacant place by Ursula, if
there was one, was sure to have been secured
by Frank.

Oh, Irony of our Fate ! Oh, Cussedness (as
Paston named thee, or, since German is the
tongue in which we now speak of things incomprehensible,
from the WeltvemiclitimgmJee of Mr.
Symonds to the Zeitgeist of Mr. Arnold, Verdant
let us call thee), strange indeed are thy
ways, and irritating past all bearing. The ancient
Greek discoursed of the jealousy of heaven ; the
sao^e of Oakleio^h was wont to hint that " Things
is always contrary ; " even the budding philosopher,
ere yet he has donned the diminutive

knickerbocker, knows, ak^s ! too well that when
he drops the toothsome morsel it will fall with
the buttered side downwards : from Herodotus
to Gibbins thy name, in whatever language, has
been a name of fear, and thy ways admittedly
past finding out. And now was our unlucky
hero made thy victim indeed ; for since Frank
had succeeded in hitting him, nothing seemed to
have gone right ; and in anguish of spirit the
ardent worshipper had to behold another, and
that other the very one who had injured him,
sitting where he himself was yearning to sit,
and talking with her whose voice his soul was
hungering to hear.

However, things did not always go on in this
fashion, nor was it solely at afternoon tea that
the members of our two families met. Arnold
had speech of Ursula on sundry occasions, but
Frank seemed to have an instinct for appearing
as a third to spoil any chance of a really satisfactory
conversation. It was tolerably easy for
Arnold and Mr. Dalton to take a morning stroll
together, and in the course of it to meet Joanna
Blunsden and Ursula ; nor was it difficult for
the two elders to drop behind, while the young
people walked on in front. But so surely as this
befel, Mr. Dalton junior discovered them ; and,
prompted by motives not hard to comprehend,
he invariably joined the younger couple. For

P 2

somehow Miss Joanna did not attract him.
'' It's all very well' he grumbled, after hearing
his father pronounce an emphatic eulogy on her,
she may be doomed clever and all that sort of
thing, but hang it, you know, she's beastly ugly,"
a statement which was certainly an unwarrantable
distortion of the facts. However, it
remains true that Arnold's few chances of a
tete-tete were regularly spoilt by this unwelcome
apparition.

It was on one of these occasions, when Ursula
was walking, with Arnold on one side struggling
to talk, but inwardly cursing Frank, who went
silently on the other, that they met a man who
paused suddenly and gazed at them in a slightly
startled manner, and then passed quickly by.
Ursula looked after him with a puzzled air.

'' What an exceedingly disagreeable-looking
man," she said. There had been time enough to
notice that he was a tallish man, clean shaven,
with uncomfortable, nondescript eyes. '' He
looked as if he thought he was recognizing an
old acquaintance in me, or at any rate in one of
us. I hope you haven't a long-lost brother, Mr.
Robur."

Heaven forbid," laughed Arnold, '^ at least
if that be he. The face struck me as one
of the most pernicious I ever beheld : the
kind of face which makes one hate the sight

of its owner even without knowing him to
speak to."

Looked a beast," quoth Frank, who felt called
upon to say something, and when he did speak
made a point of using the shortest form of
words which would convey any meaning. They
paused.

Who's the gentleman ? " asked Mr. Dalton
senior, coming up to them with Miss Blunsden.
Who's yon chap with the ill-favoured countenance
? Is it your friend he is, or this young
man's ? " screwing up his eyes at Frank.

That young gentleman could never understand
his father's chaff. He felt now that some imputation
was being cast on him by the suggestion
of his being acquainted with the unknown object
of their attention.

Never saw the beggar before," he said sulkily.
And so this little episode ended.

In the course of their walks, however, they
often passed " the long-lost brother," as the
stranger had been jestingly dubbed, but he
made no further sign of recognition, which, as
none of the party knew him, was scarcely surprising.
But, seeing that Avery small incidents
suffice to provide a subject for conversation and
joking when there is nothing more exciting to
serve, his appearance was watched for with daily
interest, while everyone agreed in expressing a

dislike of his looks, which in Ursula took the
form of a violent repugnance, intensified every
time she saw him. Strange enough it is that we
can get up such strong feelings about people of
whom we know practically nothing. There are
men who will tell you that they look upon some
other person to whom they have never spoken,
of whose very name they are ignorant, as their
guardian angel, and that they never dine comfortably
unless they have seen him in the course
of the day. The instinctive attraction between
parent and child has played an effective part in
countless romances, and surely has some foundation
in fact. And similarly acute business men
will often refuse to deal with some particular
individual, in whom their neighbours see no evil
till there comes a sudden bankruptcy or " mysterious
disappearance," with no stronger ground
for their distrust than this instinctive repulsion.
Doctor Fells are common enough in the world,
and superstitious though it seems,* we are given
to acting, and acting rightly, on a dislike or
regard which has no inductive basis. So strong
indeed was Ursula's feeling about this Doctor
Fell of hers, who was certainly possessed of most
unprepossessing features, that after a few days
she declared that as a subject of discussion he
was getting monotonous, and as a joke the " long-lost
brother " was becoming flat.

During this time the misfortune for Arnold was

o

that the Dalton family were decidedly in his way.
He had two allies, though he knew it not, yet
neither availed in the least to protect him from
Frank's perpetual and most inconvenient appearance.
Had Arnold been a trifle less scrupulous,
or had Frank been troubled with some small tenore

o

of delicacy, all would have been well : Joanna
would have succeeded sometimes at least in
attaching him to herself, in order to give Robur
free play. But while the love sick swain saw and
was grateful for her attempts to sacrifice herself
for his benefit, he groaned selfishly over her invariable
failure. He was quite unconscious that
Grace also, whenever she was with them, was
doing her best in his cause, and — as she was without
jealousy — was giving the rein to those matchmaking
tendencies which Thackeray declares to
be innate in every woman. But alas ! if she called
Frank to her side, it was but a moment he would
stay with her. To walk in pairs was a practical
necessity ; but her brother refused to see things
in this light. He would give some growling
answer, and straightway join Ursula and Arnold
again, for he considered that he got nearly enough
of ** Grace and her beastly nag-nagging at a
fellow " at home ; so that for very shame Arnold
was compelled to drop behind and talk to Grace.
At last, however, a more satisfactory opportunity

occurred. One morning Arnold, in a despairing
mood, pleaded a headache and general
disinclination for a walk. " Well, well," said
Mr. Dalton, who was in a peculiarly energetic
frame of mind, " I suppose you must e'en stop
at home. Frank ! Bless the boy, where is he
now ? Go and see if you can find him, Grace :
you'll find him in the smoking-room with that
pipe of his, you may be sure. You young donkeys,
with your pipes and cigars, no wonder you have
headaches. Any way, I'm not going to have him
loafing about the house all day." And with his
unwilling offspring for company he marched away,
bent on a longer expedition than usual.

But Arnold, having: resolved not to go out,
found himself too restless to carry out his determination,
and sauntered forth on a melancholy
stroll. Mechanically his steps took the ordinary
direction. *' Of course they won't come this way
to-day," he grumbled moodily, " that's just like
my luck." But the words were hardly out of his
mouth when his mourning was turned into
rapture ; for there sure enough was Miss Joanna
and her niece. Of course two is company and
three is none, and it was not the same thing to
talk to Ursula with her aunt by as to talk to her
alone. But if there must be a third person present,
who so suitable as the good soul on whose
sy apathy at least he could count ? So it was

with a brightening visage that he took off his hat
and greeted the two hides.

The walked alone too-ether for some while,
talkiDCf generalities. and presently sat down on
one of those convenient seats provided for the
public enjoyment at Burnport, and which are
rarely to be seen elsewhere. They are specially
adapted fur the comfort of invalids, having a
wide roof of glass and iron whii.-h provides excellent
shelter, while several persons can sit on
them and yet secure a certain amount ':»f pr:va':'V.
In the middle is a long partition. v\. : ■;. .r
part is of thick glass, serving as a back to two
benches each c:r' ^^ t h^ddiug four or live rest-seekers
: while a: - nL^r fut is another partition
made on th*^ same principle, and at ris-lu angles
to the long one. each serving as a back to two
more seats. Thus there are four rows of seats so
arranged that the remarks of the occupants of
ODC row are not distinguishable by the occupants
of another without tolerably attentive listening —
unless there happens to be a hole in the glass.

"Do you lind Grace much changed since her
school-days. Miss Blunsden \ " said Arnold, after
some chatting. He was seated on one side of
Ursula, while Aunt Joan was on the other, and
found considerable satisfaction in the immediate
proximity of his idol : while to address the
elder lady he had to lean over a little, and so

might even touch his beloved occasionally —
accidentally, of course.

"Well, yes : and improved, I think. She has
less the air of being cut out to a pattern which
used to irritate me in her, though not, I am
bound to say, more than in many other girls.
When your poor mother was still with us, Ursula,
she used to say that the eccentric girls were
harder to teach but much easier to educate."

Well," said Arnold, '' that sounds like a
paradox, but I fancy it's true enough. Coleridge
was a long time bottom of his class because he
never could give the rules of Latin grammar as
laid down in the text-book, but always wanted to
express them in his own way : so I suppose he
would come under some such rule. What do you
say, Miss Lorton 1 "

Ursula smiled, as they rose, not noticing the
rustle of a newspaper on the other side of the
partition. " I don't think I shall express an
opinion, Mr. Robur," she said, " for the girls
always used to say I was eccentric ; but whether
I really was so or not I leave Aunt Joan to
decide. Fancy admitting that one was eccentric !
what a shock it would be to Aunt Hilyard

they turned homewards.

The last hour had been a thoroughly enjoyable
one to Arnold. That was a conversation of the
old style : no vexatious interlopers to mar its

flow. The omens seemed to be changing. They
had been unpropitious long enough, in all conscience
; but now things were bemnninor to look
more promising, and his spirits rose.

Buoyancy is sometimes sternly frowned down
by the elders among us because they have it not ;
but shall we fling away the only defence we have
wherewith to break the force of Fortune's batter-ingram
? Buoyancy is a commodity that is
scarcely likely ever to exist in a larger supply
than is warranted by the demand for it. That
market is not glutted.

CHAPTEE XL

AN AFTERNOON CALL.

What would men have ? Do they think those they employ and
deal with are saints ? Do they not think they will have their
own ends, and be truer to themselves than to them ? "

Bacon : Essays.

The fragment of conversation narrated towards
the close of the last chapter does not appear to
teem with information of the most private
character ; nevertheless, had the three persons
of the dialogue been aware that the seat chosen
was one which actually had a hole in the glass,
they might have spoken in lower tones ; but as
it was, every word they said was heard and
noted by the occupant of the seat on the other
side, the rustle of whose newspaper when Arnold
addressed Ursula as " Miss Lorton " passed
unheeded by the talkers.

This gentleman folded the paper he had been
studying, which was of a frolicsome and sportive
description, placed it in his coat-pocket, and
watched the departing trio for a few moments.

Blunsden ? Bliinsden ? " he murmured interrogatively.
" Why the devil didn't he speak
plainer '? Anyhow, the way is tolerably clear
now, and if I have any wits, I shall make
something out of this." He rose and sauntered
in the direction Arnold's party had taken, keeping
them carefully in view. They disappeared
into Miss Blunsden's house, and after a moment
Eobur appeared again. Our friend stepped into
a post-office which stood close at hand.

Can you tell me," he enquired politely, " if
there is a Miss Plunder, or Blunder, or some
such name, living in the neighbourhood ? "

Blunder ? Plunder ? no such name. Stop
a bit though. There's a Miss Blunsden."

Ah, that's it," said the other with some
eagerness. " Well, where does she live ? "

The clerk eyed him suspiciously : the face did
not attract confidence. Was this likely to result
in an interesting case in the police-news ? " Looks
as if he might be an amy-too detective," thought
the youth. An " amy-too detective " conveyed
no very definite meaning to his mind, but had a
vague general connexion with people who were
wanted." The suspected one observed the
questioning gaze.

You need not be excited, my friend," he said
reassuringly. '' Miss Blunsden is not, so far as
1 know, the possessor of untold wealth, and if

she were, I should not propose to appropriate it.
My errand is of a different character ; in fact, I
don't mind telling you," he went on confidingly,
that I am the bearer of tidings which I fear
will grieve her. I was nursing a poor young
friend of mine through a fever — he had plunged
awfully, poor beggar, and got in no end of debt
and so on — when one day he turns to me and
says, ' I'm dying, Wilson. But before I'm gone,
I must give one message to you, the only friend
I can trust. Go down to Burnport, and find

Miss Blunsden there, and tell her ,' but what

I was to tell her I never learnt, for his voice
gave way, and he never spoke again. And it
was from the faintness of his words that I missed
catching her name properly before. So now,"
said this worthy, with a melancholy air and a
shake of the head, " you know all about it. So
tell me the young lady's — not a young lady ?
dear me, very strange ! — tell me the old lady's
address."

On learning it he heaved a sigh of satisfaction,
said " Good morning," and withdrew.

The clerk looked at his companion clerk
interrogatively. The latter winked.

Ah," said the first, placing the top joint of
his first finger against the tip of his nose.

*' Hookey," said the other.

Walker," replied the first.

Then both the clerks winked, and suddenly
became grave again, as an elderly female entered
the office. That evening they discussed the
mysterious and communicative stranger with
keen interest over stout and oysters, their
respective sweethearts sharing their repast and
their baffled curiosity.

Mark my words. Tommy," said the original
clerk solemnly, as they parted for the night on
his humble doorstep, after seeing their charmers
safely home, " mark my words : Something's njp.
Good night."

When the stranger left the post-office he stood
at the door and watched Arnold Robur's figure
retreating down the street. Then he pulled out
his watch. " One fifteen," he said meditatively.
Lunch time. No, it won't do just now. Try
quarter past two." And he retired to an eating-house
to attend to the wants of his inner man —
and ponder.

At a quarter past two, punctually, he ascended
Miss Blunsden's door-step and rang the bell.
A trim maid appeared promptly.

Miss Blunsden at home ? " he enquired.

Yes ; I think so," answered the maid ; but
she took no farther steps towards admitting him.
He did not strike her as being a gentleman.

Ah. Kindly tell her that I should be glad
to speak with her alone for a few moments.

Mr. No, I won't give my name. Just say

a gentleman.' "

'await here, and I'll see if she can see you,"
replied the servant, and closed the door in his
face.

I'll owe you one for that," said the stranger
to himself viciously.

The maid ascended to the parlour, where Miss
Joanna was seated by herself. Ursula had gone
to her studio, whither her aunt was on the point
of following her. Miss Hilda had retired to
refresh her wearied spirit with sweet sleep. This
was one of her favourite maxims, that among the
greatest mistakes, if not the very greatest, that
mankind makes in England is neglecting the
Siesta. So daily after lunch she retired to "lie
down for a little," not in the least discouraged by
Ursula's firm refusal to follow her example.

If you please, ma'am," said the damsel — it
was a peculiar fact that the servants always
addressed Joanna as 'ma'am," while her elder
sister was most particular about being called
miss," — " if you please, ma'am, there's a man
down-stairs that wants to speak to Miss Blunsden
alone."

What sort of a man, Mary "? " enquired Miss
Joanna.

Well, ma'am, he's a man not exactly to call a
gentleman," said Mary, puzzled by the deficiency

of her vocabulary, which did not readily provide
her with suitable terms to describe the stranger ;
'•'so I left him outside, ma'am, and said I would
see," she added, with a mind conscious of having;
advised the very best course possible. " Miss
Hilda said as I wasn't to show any one inside
that I didn't know."

*' Very well, Mary; though I don't think you
need be so very careful, especially in this cold
weather. There's very little that he could steal,
even if he wanted to. However, you had better
bring him up to me, as Miss Blunsden can't see
him just now. Perhaps I will do instead. What
name did he give ? "

He didn't give no name, ma'am. He said I
was just to say ' a gentleman.' "

A gentleman ! Well, bring him here. And,
Mary, you had better tell Miss Ursula that I
shall not be able to come up to her for a few
minutes. A gentleman ! " she pondered, as the
maid departed on her errand, " who can he be ?
and why does he want to see Hilda, I wonder ? "

The door opened, and Joanna turned and
faced — the *^ long-lost brother."

She was taken aback by this most unexpected
apparition, and doubtless her air showed it. The
man, however, was thoroughly at his ease.

'•' Miss Blunsden, I think ? " he said with imperturbable
self-possession.

VOL. II. Q

"Is it I or my sister that you wish to see ? "
she answered, recovering herself.

I should think that is a matter of little
consequence, if you live together here."

Joanna felt considerably put out by his manner.

In that case there is no need to disturb her,"
she said. " I presume this is a matter of business
of some kind."

'' Certainly."

Then will you begin by telling me your
name ? "

"We shall arrive at that in due course," said
the visitor. " Excuse my reticence ; but you
will understand shortly."

Joanna sat down. This mystery made her
uncomfortable. For the present she felt that the
unknown was master of the situation.

'' By your leave," he said, observing the other
arm-chair, *' I shall follow your example." He
calmly removed the guarding tape, placed the
footstool on the floor, and seated himself in the
sacred place. " I trust," he went on, " that we
shall be free from interruption, as this matter is
of importance, and may occupy us for some while."

You needn't be alarmed on that score. No
one will come in here," she replied, feeling that
she was getting angry.

*' You understand, of course, that what I have
to say now is to go no farther," he said.

Joanna was nettled. '' I decline to make any
promises at this stage," she said with some
warmth.

The visitor saw that he had made a false
move. 'well, we will defer that point," he
observed blandly, " but I have no doubt you
will agree with me ultimately."

There was a pause. " Well ? " said Miss
Blunsden.

Ah ; perhaps we had better begin business.
I believe " — he leaned forward as he spoke —
"that there is now staying in the house with
you a Miss Lorton ; Miss Ursula Lorton."

Well ? " said Joanna again. She felt that
the man was trying to pump her, and she did
not mean to be pumped. He seemed slightly
baffled.

Has your business anything to do with Miss
Lorton 1 " she asked.

Yes," he replied, with some hesitation. " Butin
fact, before proceeding in this rather delicate
matter, I should like to be sure that I am addressing
the right person — a person who has
some authority over that young lady."

She is my niece," answered Miss Blunder

The man looked straight at her, and lifted his
eyebrows slightly. " Ah," he said, " in any case
I suppose I may look on you as in some sort her
guardian."

Q 2

AVell ? " said Joanna for the third time.

'' I presume you were acquainted with her
mother ? "

I think I told you she was my niece. Come,
sir, drop this fencing, if you please, or it will bea
tolerably easy matter to put an end to this
interview."

He looked at her calmly with an air of deliberation
; but moved his chair slightly, so as to
make it impossible for her to get at the bell.

I don't think you will find it easy," he said,
without any sign of hurrying : " and as for her
being your niece, that, my dear lady, is a mere
figure of speech. However, as you are anxious

to drop fencing 1 suppose it has occurred to

you that she had a father ? "

What do you mean ? " said Joanna, with a
sudden spasm of fear.

The stranger laughed. "Perhaps it never
struck you that the said father might turn up,"
he said, with a slight air of triumph. She said
nothing, but only looked at him with bent brows.

Well, now, I fancy you are pretty well prepared
for my information, and can even guess
my name perhaps — Edward Lorton, at your
service." He rose and bowed with mock politeness.
'' And now the question is, what do you
propose doing ? "

Joanna said nothing ; for years she had been

dreading the thing that had now happened. She
knew little of Lorton, beyond that he was better
missing than found. What was he going todo
? His coarse hardness had already made itself
thoroughly apparent ; and she felt that whatever
his purpose might be, she Twould need all her
courage and coolness to face him. She remained
silent, making a great effort to calm herself.

Lorton sat down again, in some uncertainty as
to what his next move should be. Evidently he
did not quite know how to deal with Miss Blunder.
He resolved to try persuasive tactics.

Excuse me if I seem somewhat rough," he
said. " When a man has been knocking about
the world as long as I have, it takes the polish
off him, I'm afraid, and he forgets just how he
ought to behave before ladies. I suppose even
when I was young my companions didn't clo me
much good, and still less of late. You know
perhaps, Miss Blunsden, that I was not quite so
good a husband as I might have been, though I
must say my wife had a devil of a temper — there
again ; I beg your pardon. Well, well, poor soul,
she's underground now, and I shan't see her again
in this world. But though she did run away
from me, I have always remembered her : and I
determined to try and find the child she took
with her. And now, you see, I've found her."

He paused, and gazed at his companion to see

what effect his words were having on her. But
Joanna Blunsden sat perfectly silent with an
inscrutable countenance. Lorton was a practised
diplomatist in certain social circles, and he had
expected to find an easily managed victim in the
old maid. He had counted on first pumping her
and then wheedling or frightening her, but he
had counted without his host. After ten minutes'
conversation he knew nothing that he had not
been pretty certain of before ; and his attempt to
throw a little pathos into his words seemed to
have had no result at alL

** You probably understand now what my object
in visiting you is," he said uneasily, after a pause.

*' Perhaps I do ; perhaps not. I must ask you
to be more explicit."

But to be explicit was precisely what Lorton
did not intend. He wanted farther information
first. He made no reply. The antagonists
watched each other for some moments before
anything farther was said, each waiting, like wary
wrestlers, for the instant when the opportunity
for a favourable grip should offer. Joanna won
again. Lorton was the first to speak.

My daughter has been with you for some
years 1 " he asked.

*' She has."

'* Confound the woman," thought the other, " I
never saw one like her for holding her tongue.

Why the devil does she answer short like that ?
Well," he went on aloud, " I suppose I ought to
thank you for taking care of her all this while :
am I right in saying, ever since her mother
died ? "

It was a risky remark. He had no better
o-round for making it than Joanna's indefinite

o o

words to Ursula in the morning about the time
'' when your mother was still with us." But
little harm could come of it, save that, if he was
wrono\ Miss Blunsden would have some clue to
the extent of his ignorance. Luckily for him, the
shot was right.

But audacity begets audacity. His adversary
resolved to take the offensive.

Why do you suppose her mother is dead ? "
she asked.

He winced for a moment, startled by the suggestion
conveyed in the words ; but he saw
almost immediately that his uncertainty on that
point had not been misjudged. Joanna had given
no sign when he spoke of his wife as dead before.

I have seen her gravestone at Brighton," he
said. It was true ; he had seen his wife's name
there on a tomb-stone, and taken that as proof
of her death. It was another audacious move :
if the gravestone was hers, and he was right, that
fact was certified ; but if he was wrong his
opponent would think it was a lie. Fortune

favoured him again. Joanna had made her
attack, and been repulsed. It was the first clear
score to Lorton. Practically his last question
was answered in the affirmative by her silence.

I fear you are bent on distrusting me," he
continued, *' and I know to my cost that few
people" (with a sigh) "are attracted by the exterior
of a rolling stone such as I have been.
But let that pass. When I thank you for your
long kindness to my daughter, ill-remunerated as
it must have been, you will surely give me some
credit for sincerity ? "

We have never thought of remuneration,"
said Miss Blunsden composedly.

"It is very good of you to say so ; but you
cannot be rich, and she must have been something;
of a burden to you. Of that burden," he said,
watching her face closely, " I now propose to
release you."

Once again I must ask you to be more
explicit, Mr. Lorton."

"Curse her coolness!" he growled to himself.
Why, my dear Miss Blunsden, surely you must
understand that I as her father, now that I have
found her, intend to resume the responsibilities
attaching to parentage. In short, I propose to
withdraw her from your care, and take her away
with me. How pleasant it is to me to see her
mother's face again in her 1 "

Am I to understand that you wish her to
leave us, and to join you ? "

Precisely. I am gkd to find that my language
has at last become sufficiently clear."

'' In that case, Mr. Lorton, you had better
understand at once that I cannot listen to your
suggestion for a moment. Ursula, my Ursula, to
be dragged from the purity of her life here to
associate with your friends, to grow accustomed
to their evil ways, to meet perhaps with a fate
not less wretched than her mother's — it is impossible.
Our interview is finished."

Joanna had held herself under control before,
but now the rush of passionate feeling mastered
her, and she spoke fast and warmly. When she
ended she rose to ring the bell. But her visitor
was by no means inclined to acquiesce in so
summary a termination to the proceedings.

Pardon me," he said, " I cannot agree with
you on that point. I don't consider the question
by any means settled at present ; and until it is
settled I intend to stay."

Miss Blunsden had no choice but submission.
She reseated herself, and said, '* You have had
my answer, and I cannot see what there is to
discuss farther."

Well, you see, I may be at liberty to doubt
whether your answer is final. Consider." He
leaned back and looked at her argumentative.

Ursula's father surely has a right to some voice
in the question of her goings and comings."

Ursula's father appears to me to have forfeited
all such rights as he may once have had sometime
since, when he drove his poor wife from
him : and such rights as may be acquired by
having cared for the child, fed her, and trained
her, ever since her mother's death, undoubtedly
belong to me."

"Ah, well, we weill waive the question of
rights for the present. Perhaps we may return
to them later. In the mean time, I fancy that
your objection is based merely on an unfortunate
prejudice."

You may call it a well-grounded conviction
of your utter unfitness to have the charge of a
pure-hearted girl, Mr. Lorton. I speak strongly
because I feel strongly."

"So it seems. Of course I can only regret it.
Then you don't see your way to accepting my
proposal ?"

"Emphatically, I do not."

Suppose we ask my daughter's view of the
case ? "

No," said Joanna calmly, '* that I consider is
quite out of the question. I can see no reason
for troubling; the child about a matter of which
there is only one solution. She believes that her
father is dead, and the illusion is one which it

will be much better for lier to keep. The less she
hears of lira the better."

Lorton found it hard to control his temper in
the presence of his adversary's coolness and
authoritative air. His plan of action had been
based on a thorough miscalculation of Miss
Blunsden's skill and resolution. He determined
to try a new tack.

I feared it would be so," he said. " However,
I have still another proposal to make.
You have made up your mind to deprive me of
my daughter, my poor wife's child ; and you
have implied a good deal that is scarcely complimentary
to me. Don't be too hard on me."

'' I have no wish to be hard on you, Mr.
Lorton. But I must have strong reasons, which
neither your words nor your manner have provided,
for supposing that your character has
greatly altered for the better before I can feel
justified even in removing Ursula's impression
that you died long ago, much more in allowing
you to see her or speak to her."

"You are hard on me, all the same," he
replied. " But since it must be so, you may as
well hear at least what I have to say for myself.
I certainly treated my wife badly, — 1 own it
with shame, — yet do me the justice to believe
that I was not altogether to blame even there.
She was a good woman, I suppose ; but good

women do not always make the best of wives to
men circumstanced as I was."

Your circumstances were of your own making,
Mr. Lorton. If a good woman fails to bea
good wife, the husband must be the oue in
fault."

"You fancy so, no doubt; but in spite of
that, whatever the reason, I found that she
whom I had taken as a help-meet was not fitted
for her position."

That I can easily believe," said Joanna, with
some irony.

'well, anyhow, we did not get on together.
She treated my friends ill, and I suppose I
treated her ill ; and, in short, she left me, as you
know. I did not grieve much at the time, but I
came to see my error pretty soon. Anyhow she
was lost to me completely ; I had no clue to her
whereabouts, so as to be able to offer her what
assistance I could ; and what little chance I had
of settling; down had ozone with her. I have
knocked about the world since a good bit, earning
a living somehow, doing now one thing and
now another ; and it is no very long time since
I found my way to England, and learnt for the
first time, in the Brighton churchyard, that my
wife was no more. That the child was alive
I guessed, as she was not buried with her
mother; but it was only when I saw her here

the other day that I discovered anything about
her. She is her mother's living image, as you
know, Miss Blunsden, and I could not doubt
that she was the girl I was searching for."

She is like her mother, certainly," mused
Joanna, "but the poor soul must have been
sadly changed by her troubles if the resemblance
was so strong as that : yet I can fancy it is true."

"And now that I have found her, I am
denied even the opportunity of speaking with
her. She might keep me straight at any rate if
she were with me. It is a hard thing for a man
to lead a satisfactory life on the pittance he gets
as a bagman."

Which pittance, however, you seem anxious
for her to share," observed Joanna drily. " You
do not appear to be actuated by motives of pure
affection, Mr. Lorton."

Lorton cursed her again in his heart for her
acuteness. " AYith her to work for, perhaps I
might dd better. But what I want you to see
now is that my present mode of life is not such
that my daughter will be proud of me, if she
hears of me, as she may do."

She shall not hear of you if I can help it, as
I think I have said before ; and your words confirm
me in my opinion that that determination
on my part is right."

Matters would be different. Miss Blunsden,

if I had something besides the pittance. Give
me a decent allowance, or a good lump sum
down, and you shall not hear of me again till
I have made for myself the position I ought
to have, and can ask to see my daughter without
being subjected to such taunts as you have been
heaping on me."

Joanna Blunsden rose, with indignation in her
eyes and burning contempt in her voice.

What ! " she exclaimed, '' this was the object
of your visit ; this was your purpose in pretending
you so longed to see your daughter, — not
that you might try and repair the Wrong done
her by your cruel treatment of her mother
before, your carelessness in never even seeking
for /ler till you thought you might make something
out of it, but because you thought it
would be easy enough to wheedle an old woman
who was fond of her into giving you money.
I distrusted you from the first, but I hardly
thought you were as bad as that." She paused
for want of breath.

Lorton sat in his chair unmoved, looking upon
her with his cold eyes.

"About the money ? " he enquired.

Joanna recovered herself quickly. " About
the money. I have the same answer to give as
I gave before to your other proposal. I would
not give you a penny even if I could."

Throughout the greater part of the interview,
after he had once introduced himself, Lorton had
worn an air of submission ; pathos he thought
was the card to pLay with the oil lady. But his
attempt had so far been a conspicuous failure.
He had never been able to conceal the fact that
he was acting, though a stranger who knew
nothing of his antecedents, and was less acute
than Joanna, might have been taken in, and put
down his slips merely to the awkwardness of
a man unaccustomed to the society of gentlemen
: and he had only now and then assumed a
slightly dictatorial manner. Now, however, his
manner changed. His eyebrows drew downwards
ominously and he set his teeth together,
while a very unpleasant look appeared in his
eyes.

You had better think ao^ain before origins
that as your final answer," he said fiercely.

Joanna faced him with an expression as firm
as his own. " You have your answer," she said.
I have nothing to give you, nor would I give
it if I had. Intimidation is useless ; you will
gain little from me in that way."

"Well," he broke out savagely, "you have
given me your answer ; now I give you my
warning. I know my daughter ; I know where
she lives ; I can find her when I will. I shall
make your life a burden, and you will never

know what my next move Avill be ; indoors and
out of doors, you will see me when you least
want me. Give me money, and I will promise
to leave you and the girl in peace. Now then,"
he rose, choking with wrath, "you see what I
can do to you if I will. Choose which you will
have. Peace on my terms — or War ! ''

Joanna was already standing. She gave no
sign of quailing before his threats ; but she was
grave and stern.

Peace," she said calmly, " but not on the
terms you offer. You have forgotten something,
Mr. Lorton — something which happened about
four and twenty years ago, for which you have
not yet settled accounts. Fifteen years of penal
servitude would keep you from troubling me
much ; I should probably be in my grave before
you came out."

Lorton had played his ace, and it had been
trumped. He was completely staggered by the
answer Bliss Blunsden gave him. He expected
to frighten her, but the tables were turned ; his
fury was changed to terror.

For God's sake ! " he gasped, catching hold
of the mantelpiece to steady himself " don't !
Miss Blunsden, don't let them know of me."

Is it Peace — on my terms — or War ? " asked
Joanna quietly, quoting his words.

"Peace — on any terms. I'll never trouble

you again, if you will only promise to keep
quiet."

Very well," she answered, '' I do not feel
bound to give you up, unless you compel me
yourself."

Lorton breathed freely again. " Well," he
said, " you gave me a terrible fright, and perhaps
I deserved it. Anyhow, I suppose it was
fair play. Now, Miss Blunsden, I've been beaten
all alone' the line, and there's nothing; left for me
but to clear out, and keep my distance."

Those are my terms," said Joanna. " Do
nothing and say nothing from which Ursida may
know that you are living ; and leave us as if
you had never found her."

'' Well, well, I have no choice but to give in.'^
He paused suddenly for a moment, and then
went on ; '*' but there's just one thing that I
should like to have your permission for : to send
her a jewel that was once her mother's. You
say I am never to speak to her, and there is
nothing else I can do. Her birthday is about
now if I remember right, — let me send it her
then. She need never know from whom it came."

Miss Blunsden hesitated. Then —

Give it to me," she said, " if you have it
here. I will not trust your sending it ; you
might make an opportunity for yourself out of
that."

VOL. II. R

''I will send it to you tomorrow," he said.
'' You may open the packet yourself, and see
that there is nothing else inside. I suppose you
won't shake hands ? "

I don't think I can shake hands with you,
Mr. Lorton. Remember our agreement, and
try to change your manner of living. Good
afternoon."

"You've treated me better than I deserved,
Miss Blunsden. Good-bye."

"Damn the woman," he said, as soon as he
was outside the house: "but — we shall see.
I've not done with you yet, old lady."

Joanna had borne up magnificently throughout
the interview ; bat the strain had been
terrible, though she had given no sign. Once
Lorton was out of the house, she broke down
completely, and had to withdraw to her own
chamber. The two other ladies were surprised
to hear in the evening that she had gone to bed
with a bad headache.

Dear me ! " murmured Aunt Hilda. " She
has usually been so free from headaches. I
wonder if she would try a little of my medicine ?
But Joanna is so obstinate ! Perhaps if she
had only taken a Siesta this would not have
happened."

CHAPTER Nil

PROPOSAL AND DISPOSAL.

Splash went he as under he ducked." — R. Browning.

The clay after the event just narrated Arnold
came to a momentous decision. The " strained
relations" in the Dal ton family were waxing too
much for him, and he was of opinion that
matters would altogether be more comfortable
if he ceased to remain under the same roof with
Frank, and he resolved to move his quarters to
the hotel where he had loosed before. The
reason he professed was a vague sense of the
increased liberty that would attend on the
change, averring that he had lived an essentially
bachelor life for years, and the domesticity of
an extensive family circle, however charming its
members, was a trifle oppressive : and he was
strong; enough ao;ain now not to need looking
after. So to the hotel he went, not without
first being subjected to a volley of abuse from
Mr. Dalton, and a diffuse harangue on the evils
of hotels in general from his wife.

R 2

Not that his method of life was materially
affected. He continued to take his morning
constitutional as before, in the society of Mr.
Dalton — and others. But the chancre undoubted



ely made him feel more at his ease, and it is
equally certain that Frank began to breathe
more freely.

It was the practice of that young gentleman
to disappear after breakfast, and to thrust his
presence suddenly and without warning upon
the society of his relations and friends when
they were least thinking of him ; and on one
epoch-making morning, he adjourned as usual
to the beach, " this way and that dividing his
swift mind," if such an epithet may be applied
to the contents of his skull.

The fact is that he was perturbed : his equanimity
was ruffled. A dim suspicion was beginning
to haunt his soul that he did not
adequately represent the highest type of man.
Several circumstances had combined to induce
this novel sensation. One was the really remarkable
treatment he had suffered at the hands
of Mr. Rock. He had, as he conceived, done a
deed which should cause his name to be registered
for ever in the roll of the valiant and chivalrous :
he had paid a visit to his ancient Mentor, fully
reckoning upon granulation, praise, and stimulating
liquors,— and he had been ignominiously

ejected with language the reverse of complimentary
: and this was exceedingly confusing.
On the top of that he had been cruelly victimised
by " that brute Paston," who had first harrowed
his feelings with fallacious terrors, and then had
called him — Frank Dalton — a coward, to his face.
Indeed, the doctor's way of putting things had
been at first so insinuatingly deceptive, and then
so coarsely direct, that Frank had not recovered
from the shock ; — in fact the lurking idea that
what had been said was true refused to be
suppressed. And then again it was impossible
to avoid a certain uneasiness under Arnold's
behaviour. It made him, for the first time in
his life, the victim of an annoying feeling of
shame. And, by way of a finishing touch to
all these elements of discomfort, he found himself
"gone" on Ursula Lorton. His theory
of life was undergoing a transformation as the
result of her society. He could not square his
past conduct with his present reverence for that
young lady, who often said things which pierced
through even his pachydermatous coverings ina
very discomforting manner. She was pretty
"doomed pretty," thought Frank with a
more or less vaguely defined admiration of his
charmer's attractions from the aesthetic point of
view. And then, she looked at one so infernally
straight ! If you come to think of it, there are

very few people who do that, or at least very
few who impress you with the consciousness
that they do. Those grave eyes that look at
us so openly and seriously even while the owner
is laughing, make us feel much more ashamed
of our petty iniquities than any words. And
hang it — she's doomed pretty," he repeated to
himself.

Not that his thoughts took the definite shape
in which they are here presented. Frank's
thoughts so rarely succeeded in taking a definite
shape. Very much the clearest of them was
the last. This was indeed so clear that it suggested
farther consideration. Hang it, he didn't
see that he was such a bad fellow after all. It
was no use raking up past blunders (a pet
formula of our young friend's), and anyhow, he
would have lots of tin. Why shouldn't he marry
Ursula? Gad, it would be a good match for
her — but he was above such paltry considerations
! Hang it, he would marry her ! — He
knocked the ashes out of his pipe, and
chucked some stones into the water to relieve
his feelings. Then he rose, to stroll up downwards,
and review the situation.

To his surprise, the first sight that met his
eyes on turning was Tantivy. Those estimable
dog's were rollicking in their usual ecstatic
manner. They were tumbling over each other's

tails, and bolting; between the leo-s of the few
children who were on the beach at this season,
much to the astonishment and often to the
alarm of those fathers of men. But the interesting
point was, that where Tantivy was to be
found, his mistress was not far off. It must be
remarked, by the way, that that animal was a
standing puzzle to his acquaintances, and nobody
knew whether he or they were singular or plural.
Pronouns suffered badly in consequence. Alas
he two doors, or rather one doo: in two manifestations
? — a puzzle for metaphysicians as well as
grammarians. If he was called " they " in one
sentence, they were called " he " in the next :
and the chronicler must be pardoned if he is
not more clear on the point than other people.

However, Frank od observing the doors lifted
up his eyes and beheld a family party tending in
his direction. Mr. Dalton, Miss Joanna, Grace,
Ursula, and Arnold ; the two latter leading.
The tide was down : the party apparently meant
to vary their constitutional by a walk on the
rocks. Mr. Dalton junior promptly resolved to
break in on the tete-astute going on in front.

Forthwith he carried his resolution into effect,
to Arnold's intense disgust. Poor fellow, his
opportunities for tolerably solitary converse were
totally rare, and he had fancied — foolish dreamer
that by taking to the shore instead of the

usual walk the intruder might be escaped. But
this hopes were vain. Ursula greeted Frank
pleasantly, and Arnold was suddenly smitten
with dumbness.

They passed on thus in divisions of three till
they reached the rocks. Then it became necessary
for each of the ladies to have a cavalier.
What was to be done ? Grace made a virtuous
attempt to sacrifice herself for the sake of Arnold.

Frank," she called, " come and help me over
this, there's a good boy."

Can't," responded the brother.

There was no help for it. Arnold came and
gave her his hand. The little effort at diplomacy
had failed ; worse, it had produced the opposite
result to that intended. Instead of leaving
Arnold free with Ursula, he had been summoned
from her side. Grace was in despair ; but the
only thing to be done was to make matters as
pleasant as might be for her companion. To
help an attractive and not very daring young
lady over places which combine the minimum
of actual difficulty with the maximum of imaginary
danger is no unpleasant task ; and Arnold,
though torn from his charmer's side, beo^an
to feel that after all there might be, in the
philosopher's words, a " brighter side o' things : "
and he ■ tried to make the best of the situation.
Mr. Dalton in the background was making a

great display of lending courteous assistance to
his companion, discoursing the while with bland
serenity on the rocks, the sea, and the weather.

Presently his voice reached them in an address
to Grace.

Hoots, girl, what are you wanting all that
help for ? Upon my word ! Here's Miss
Blunsden will race you over the rocks any day,
with never a body to lend her a hand. Come,
Miss Blunsden, let's see if we can't catch up
these young people." There was a world of
tolerating scorn in the last word but one. Miss
Blunsden, however, declined the proposed trial
of speed ; but Grace and Arnold paused for the
elders to come up, on the farther side of a
miniature chasm.

"There now," cjuoth the father: 'you'll see
Miss Blunsden hop over that like a bird. You
and your difficulties ! " Joanna passed the dangerous
spot with ease, Arnold giving her his hand.

Well, papa ? " said Grace.

It appeared that Mr. Dalton's taunts were
premature. He did not see his own way across
clearly.

Well," he said, eyeing the place, *' if ever I
venture my ankles, not to say my neck, with a
parcel of hare-brained young people again — begging
your pardon. Miss Blunsden, you're as bad
as the worst of them. Here, Grace ! Give me

your hand." And lie landed himself safely.
Oh yes, it's mighty fine for you to laugh ; but
when you come to my years — "

'' Here's Miss Blunsden ready to race you over
the rocks any day, with never — "

Hark at her I just hark at her ! Miss
Blunsden, don't you pity an old man with such
a daughter ? ' How sharper than a serpent's
tooth ' — what is it ? There, go along with you,
and leave us to gang our ain gate."

They went on. Ursula and Frank in the
mean time were rapidly distancing the rest of
the party, accompanied by the dogs, which were
accustomed to such expeditions. In spite of the
girl's efforts, the conversation evinced a decided
tendency to lapse. Frank found great difficulty
in rising beyond monosyllables. Here he was,
alone with the object of his affections. Obviously,
he ought to seize his opportunity, and call the
young lady's attention to the fact that there was
a suitor who was only waiting for her to fall into
his arms. But how on earth was he to begin ?
Ursula's remarks didn't seem to lead in the right
direction, and presently ceased altogether. The
fact is she was getting considerably bored. But
Frank couldn't stand this. He resolved to make
an effort.

Beastly cold it's been," he suggested tentatively.


Oil . . . yes. It has been cold." Ursula's
mind had been wandering. She had been
vaguely thinking about the Daltonss in general,
and about Frank in particular; and in the case
of the latter her thoughts had been anything but
complimentary. In the silence, she had forgotten
that he was beside her, and the awakening,
characteristically effected, startled her, and made
her answer vacantly. Also, it heightened her
colour slightly.

Frank observed and was gratified. He took
the blush for a compliment. A happy thought
occurred to him — why should valorous youth
fear to plunge in unknown waters ? None but
the brave deserve the fair ! He would plunge
into conversational subtleties hitherto untried ;
pay her a compliment.

So far, excellent. What compliment ? He
looked round, " from heaven to earth, from earth
to heaven," with vague reminiscences of the
assistance he had gained in his school-days from
floor or ceiling in the absence of a crib. By
Jove ! the very thing !

'^ I say, there were some awfully jolly sketches
among those."

*' Where ? " asked Ursula, unconscious.

"Those of yours, you know."

Ursula was taken aback. This was quite a
new tack Frank had gone off on.

"I'm afraid I have no good ones," she said.
I wish I could paint as well as Grace. She
was much better than I at school, though of
course I haven't seen anything of hers since.
I hope she's kept it up."

Thus did she attempt to turn the conversation,
but in vain. Frank was obtuse, and ignored the
latter part of her remarks.

Oh, but some of them were awfully good,
you know. There was an awfully jolly one of
some rocks and things. I say. Miss Lorton,"
he went on, getting rather red, " I wish you'd
let me have one of them."

Here was an awkward state of things. Frank
seemed to be " revealing unsuspected depths of
feeling," like the private tutor in a well-known
poem : he had developed a taste for artistic
culture, but his way of showing it was not
calculated to make his companion feel comfortable.

Really, Mr. Dalton," she said, " I have
nothing at all worth giving away."

Frank seized his opportunity. He screwed his
courage to " popping " point, and made a mighty
effort.

Well' he said, "if you won't give me that,
there's something else I wish you would give
me.

Ursula looked at him in bewilderment. What
could he mean ?

*eyes, I'm not rotting, you know. I want yow,
Miss Lorton. I shall have lots of coin, you
know, so that'll be all right. I want to marry
you, Ursula."

If Ursula was puzzled before, she was now
simply struck dumb. This was something she
had never dreamed of suspecting ; and she felt
a little bit indignant with this great hulking boy
for taking her undeserved toleration in this
manner. She stood still for a while in mute
surprise. At last she spoke.

I'm afraid," she said, " you don't understand
what you're talking about."

Oh yes, I do," said Frank, moving forward
again, for Ursula's pause had enabled the rest of
the party to come pretty near them. " Oh yes, I
do. It'll be all right, you know. Nobody will
object."

The bland self-satisfaction of the young gentleman's
tone was intensely nettling to Ursula.

I'm afraid somebody will," she said, struggling
against a strong temptation to speak with
severity. " Take care : hadn't we better stop ?
This is very slippery ground."

The last remark, though it would bear a metaphorical
interpretation, was meant literally. The
rocks were getting very sea-weedy, and the
foothold very uncertain. But Frank held on
his way in proud contempt of such trifles.

'that doesn't matter," he said, "I won't let
you tumble. And nobody loll object, you know.
At least the governor won't, and no one else
matters."

No one, Mr. Dalton ? " Ursula was beginning
to enjoy the situation. This absurd confidence
deserved the punishment it was going to get.

Why, no, as long as we are agreed."

Perhaps ; — but — are we ? "

Frank faced round. He saw the smile breaking
out on his beloved's face, and a new and awful
thought occurred to him. But no ! it was
impossible.

*' Why, you're never going to refuse me," he
said incredulously.

But Ursula was merciless. *' That's the very
thing," she replied with a mischievous little
curtsey : " You do me too great an honour, Mr.
Dalton, and I really couldn't think of accepting
it.

Frank's countenance fell. '' I say, you know,
don't. You think I don't mean it, but I do.
Ursula, you've no idea how keen I am. You're
the only girl that ever — oh con Damn ! "

Splash ! The lover's foot slipped on the seaweed
in the midst of his impassioned address ;
he staggered, and suddenly descended backwards
ignominiously into a pool ; and hence his most
untimely objurgation. To make his position

worse, Tantivy, excited by the display of waterworks
attending his fall, came galloping on either
side of the prostrate hero, yapping hilariously
and snapping at his trousers. It was too much
for Ursula, who broke into a fit of laughter, with
an irresistible ripple of triumph in it.

Slowly he picked himself out of the pool,
dripping, chilly, and miserably conscious that he
had been made ridiculous in the eyes of hi
mistress. To crown his shame, Mr. Dalton's
voice sounded across the intervening rocks —

What's that boy doing ? Bless us, what a
figure he is ! Come, be ofi" home with you, my
young man, and change your clothes'"

You had better go, Mr. Dalton," said Ursula,
controlling her voice enough to speak, though
with some difficulty, — "'*' and — I'm sorry that your
hopes should have been buried in a watery
grave."

CHAPTER XIII.

Ursula's birthday.

Adhere are the Avenged words ? Lost in the air.
Where the fresh flower of youth and glory ? Gone 1
The strength of well-knit limbs? Brought low by care.
Wealth? Plundered. None possess but God alone."

Gregory of Naziaiizen.

It was Ursula's birthday. For twenty-one years
to-day she had lived to brighten the lives of a
tiny fraction of humanity peopling a still tinder
segment, comparatively speaking, of the whole
sum of things, — the spot which from time to
time she had called her home. It seems a modest
achievement, but how many of us can say as
much 1 Not that Ursula said, or even thought,
anything about it at all ; only she did not feel
any stings of conscience on the subject.

At breakfast she was presented by the sisters
with a gold watch and chain which Aunt Joan
had paid for alone. But then Miss Hilda's share
in the ceremony was discharged in no slipshod
or perfunctory style. She was good enough to

meet her responsibility as the elder without the
least hesitation in the world, and cheerfully
undertook unasked the trying duty of the presentation,
throwing in gratis, as it were, a few
inspiring and original remarks by way of an
informal complimentary address.

For it is an epoch in your life, my dear,"
said she, after reminding Ursula how entirely
she was beholden to her, Miss Blunsden, for
daily sustenance, bodily and spiritual ; "a day
to be spent in prayer and fasting, in meditation
and contemplation, in mortifying the flesh and
nourishing the soul. Think, my dear child ;
from this day forward you will have to face the
task of forming your own opinions ! "

Well," observed Miss Joanna, looking into
the teapot, and snapping the lid viciously, " I
don't suppose she is ever likely to want you orme
to form them for her."

'^ Be silent, dear Joanna, please. My memory
is not so short as yours, dearest, and I can
remember exactly how I felt when all the cares
and griefs of womanhood first burst upon my
girlish vision." Aunt Hilda sighed, and looked
sentimental.

'' ' Teach me rather to forget,' " muttered her
sister, helping herself to bacon and eggs ; " however,
if there's anything to cry about we may as
well get over it as soon as possible."

VOL. H. S

*' Anything to cry about ! " laughed Ursula ;
why, I couldn't cry now if I tried ; every one
is so kind, and I feel so happy, and grateful.
But I know what you mean, Aunt Hilda," she
went on, " and I don't intend to take the day
just like every other one, you know, in spite of
that wicked Aunt Joan." The two young people
hugged each other affectionately, and thus was
the wind again taken out of Miss Hilda's sails,
to use a vulgar nautical parable. What would
have been that lady's horror and amazement if
she had guessed that her young charge had
already begun to have a will of her own a
considerable number of years before the attainment
of her legal majority ! That such was the
shocking fact can, however, be at once averred
with confidence. Most young ladies have more
in them than appears at first sight, — though,
indeed, the opposite turns out not unfrequently
to be the case, especially where that first sight
may be considered satisfactory enough in anaesthetic
sense. Socrates is a classical precedent
for this divorce between internal and external
beauty in a man, nor is the anomalous union
between a vivacious manner and a sluggish
intelligence absolutely unknown in this wide-awake
are. But, whether Ursula be taken to
illustrate the rule or the exception, let it be here
publicly advertised that her freshness was not

the slow result of consuming the strong; meat
supplied by manuals of deportment. Her nature
was all of a piece, clear and sound as a bell all
through. Such as pure mother's-milk had made
it, so had it remained ; and its growth was a
natural development undisturbed by artificial
twists or forced excrescences ; in short, a tolerably
correct estimate of Hercules was possible
after a cursory inspection of his footprint.

Aunt Hilda's sermon about epochs, so
happily cut short and frustrated by Joanna and
Ursula between them, would have been mere
wasted breath, had it been delivered. But
though no one doubtless could have been more
gratified than Miss Blunsden to be convinced of
the superciliousness of administering such maxims
by the fact that they were already duly appreciated,
the artificial manner in which the conversation
had been diverted from her topic did
not apparently meet with that lady's approval.
Whether it was that she had her doubts about
Ursula's sagacity, or that she was a prey to the
sudden indisposition which would malignantly
attack her at similar junctures to the present,
she lost her voice to all intents and purposes
during the remainder of the meal, and except for
an occasional sigh, or sharp drawing of breath,
as if she were heroically suppressing a cry of
anguish, she maintained a reserved, not to say

stolid, demeanour as long as Ursula stayed in
the room. Under the circumstances there was
only one thing to be done, and the dining-room
was soon evacuated by the frivolous members of
the family. Up-stairs things looked more cheerful.
There was a bright fire in the little boudoir,
and almost every vase and vessel which could by
any means be utilised for the purpose had its
bouquet of hot-house flowers. The girl knew
whose thoughtfulness had planned this sweet-savoured
welcome. Who but Aunt Joan would
have risen earlier than her wont on purpose to
arrange the offering which she must have secreted
somewhere in the house overnight ? She noticed,
too, some simple presents from one or two
humble friends. There was a mute assurance
about such gifts that put them above the suspicion
of unworthy motive. It was all one
Whether she were rich or poor, a nameless outcast
or the envied possessor of interest and
patronage, the tenderness of the givers would
have been the same either way. She looked out
at the blue sky above ; at the piled and battlemented
line of the horizon, the cloudy strongholds
against which the sea must surely be
during over there in the distance ; at the sea
itself, smooth where she saw it f;:ir out, while the
bands of gold upon its surface broadened even
while she looked into one wide robe of glory, and

the sails put off in a moment their dull hues,
and flashed out silvery as dove's wings. Onward
spread the glow, illuminating the heavens and
the earth, the sea and the dry land, as far as the
eye could reach, with its genial wealth of light.
Every surface touched by it in its advance
seemed instantly to teem with life, and for a
space even the commonest things shone radiant.
Ursula doubted if there were any shade so impenetrable
as to resist the searching flood ; the
very bowels of the earth must disclose their
secrets, nor could even that blacker darkness
which shrouds men's hearts be left unbribed.
Auspicious sunshine ! And yet, had the sun's
face been hidden and the sky beclouded', Ursula
would have been well pleased. Every mood of
Nature was alike auspicious to her, and she
would fall into accord with each change as easily
as skilled musicians modulate from one key into
another. None but untilled human clods, however,
can fail to be moved by a glimpse of fine
weather at a time of year when such glimpses
are rare.

In the little piece of road which was visible
from the window two butcher-boys were engaged
in feats of dexterity and daring, while a not of
children whose Christmas holidays were not yet
over left their skipping, and gathered close round
the truant acrobats. A doo; was sniffing: the

meat-troughs which had been laid aside by their
careless guardians at the edge of the pavement.
He was a fat, well-liking cur, and evidently-meant
to purloin the meat merely as an excellent
practical joke, being inspired thereto by the
seasonable hilarity that was in the air, and not
because he might otherwise be dinnerless. A
man with a wooden leg stumped round the
corner, and Ursula was just wondering whether
he would fling away his stick, and take a turn at
the skipping-rope, when there was a rustle at the
door. Ursula turned round, and saw Aunt Joan
enter softly. She closed the door behind her ina
cautious and almost nervous manner, and stood
a moment looking downwards with a strange air
of indecision. Ursula saw that she held something
in her hand, but kept it partially concealed
in the folds of her dress, as if she were half-afraid
of showing it. Brief as was the elder woman's
embarrassment it was the first sign of constraint
that had ever appeared to weaken the relation
between these two. Thus much the girl divined
at a glance ; and ignorant whether this were
some mere passing shock, or a pang that was to
leave its lifelong ineradicable sting, — ignorant
alike of the cause of her new woe and its consequence
— she sank down upon the window-settle
sunder the weight of pain with a low cry. It
smote upon Joanna s heart with the might of an

irresistible appeal. All the great capacity for
loving within her made immediate and loyal
answer. She raised her head, and looked at
Ursula with eyes full of tears. Then she advanced,
and took the girl's hand.

Dear Ursula, it is all so sad."

What did she mean ? Ursula remained gazing
in front of her with eyes bereft of vision. She
felt suddenly dazed, and it was easier to think
than speak. But, some kind instinct coming to
her aid, she took quietly the hand outstretched
to her in this, as it had been in every other difficulty
as far back as she could remember, and
tried hard to steady her thoughts.

So she set foot upon the trackless future,
clinging bravely to her only chance of safe-conduct
through it. Good ship ! Cut adrift from
all moorings else, hold fast to this last strand in
the cable that still keeps you at fair anchorage
within the port where are the habitations of
men, homes lovely and beloved. That link once
chafed asunder, there will be nothing to hinder
you from being rapt clean away from human
succour and sympathy, till even the very memory
of such things dies in you, and you go to pieces
at last, a seared and out-worn hulk through ceaseless
tossing on the waste waters of apathy.

Let us sit down here together."

Ursula heard, and complied automatically.

They sat down on the sofa, and Joanna put
her arms tenderly about her charge.

There are seasons when life's stages of transition
follow closely upon each other in such mad
pell-mell that the soul recoils amazed and baffled
from the effort to conceive vicissitudes so rapid
and various.

The sun's rays had been streaming into the
room just now when Ursula entered it. Just
now ! — God ! How recent, and yet how plans
remote, it seemed, separated from the
present by such a crowded interval of experience.
Where now were those dainty and brilliant hues,
those thousand tiny sparkles emitted by each
ornament and polished surface in response to the
fructifying beams ? A grey haze pervaded the
place, permeating everything with chilly neutral
tint. Ursula shivered.

But Joanna's voice reassured her. " Dear
child," it said, " I have always dreaded this day,
and not more for your sake, I believe, than for
my own." The voice trembled a little, and went
on in a firmer tone. " How you will take what
I am going to tell you I do not know, but a fear
has often come over me — though heaven knows
how earnestly I have tried to repress it — that
this secret was destined to come between us,
and — oh, Ursula ! — drive us apart as soon as it
should be known. Therefore promise me, dear.

before I go farther, and out of pity for this weak
fancy of mine, if you like, that you will never
he persuaded into leaving me willfully or carelessly
against my wish without the deepest consideration
of the circumstances, and that at any
rate, however widely we may be severed through
no fault of our own, I may still count upon your
undying love and prayers for me as you may
upon mine."

The light came again into Ursula's eyes as she
threw her arms about Aunt Joan's neck, and ina
choking voice promised to observe this covenant.
And now," she said, almost smiling, as she lay
still, her pale cheek against her friend's, "go on
with wdiat you have to tell me, dear ; for, whatever
it may be, the worst is past."

We must be nearer to each other in love
than ever," replied Joanna. " What is the use
of friendship if it cannot many times over outweigh
kindred ? "

Ah, that is just what I think. And I don't
forget that you are my friend as well as my
relation. Aunt Joan. I don't intend ever to call
you anything else, and yet I believe few sisters
can be so dear to each other as we are."

"That is well, dearest. I, too, have held fast
the same thought all along, and only waited to
have it confirmed once more by your lips. Well,
then, there is no need to delay farther, as one

would have to do with weak folks. For both of
us the task is easier. The time has come when
wee must each resign our claim of kinship upon
the other, and recognise only the simple bond of
love ; for there is neither more or less than that
between us, Ursula."

She paused, and there was no sound in the
room but the ticking of the clock in the corner,
and the sputter of the fire among 'the coals.
Ursula's silence alarmed her, and she would have
eaten her words to have been spared the piteous
sight of the girl's blanched cheeks and drooping
eyelids. She bent quickly and kissed the pale
upturned face ; then recovering herself went on
doggedly :

'^ It is about seventeen years ago that I was
working alone one evening, Hilda having gone
out, when I first heard your name, and saw
^' your poor mother lead you into our drawing-room
at Brighton. You were both thinly clad,
and looked pinched and exhausted, but even
the servant recognised the tokens of gentle
birth and nurture in Mrs. Lorton, and admitted
"her at once. Directly she opened her mouth
I knew her to be a woman of culture and
"refinement, and wdaen she told me that she
had been a governess like myself, and being
in great destitution had come to me after a
fruitless day spent in search of employment

elsewhere, prudence and inclination united in
'urging me to accept her offered assistance. I
shall never forget how the dear soul hurst outcrying
after I told her that we could easily
find room in the house for both mother and
child. ' My own happiness is gone she said,
' and for my own sake I would as soon die in
the workhouse as anywhere else ; but I feel I
must do the best I can for this sweet innocent.
For her sake I bless you from my heart.' Of
course I did the best I could to comfort your
'mother, telling her that Hilda would never
forgive me if I was to treat any claimant on
our good offices with discourtesy. Then I took
you both down-stairs, and gave you something
to eat. Afterwards, while a room was being;
prepared for you, your mother sat down with
me again before the fire, and told me all about
herself, rocking you to sleep on her lap. That
story — partly told then, and farther explained
at various times later — you shall hear briefly."

Ursula stirred slightly, and her lips trembled,
but she said nothing.

Your mother came of a good English family,
a family possessing the means to do much for
its members. But she was unhappy at home ;
she was the only daughter, and there was no one
to attend to her after her mother's death. Then
her father married again, and her eldest brother,

a pushing barrister, got her into his power, and
tried to force upon her a lover of his own
choosing. She was not less spirited and head
strong than he, however, and after many bitter
quarrels she fled. Five or six years before she
came to us at Brighton she had been teaching
'' in a wealthy family at a certain colonial city.
She was well treated, and indeed always looked
back to that time as the happiest part of her
*life. Her relations found out - after a while
what had become of her ; but they never
made the least eflbrt to heal the breach, and
"she knew that their injured pride would not
"allow them to acknowledge her again. The
"brother has since risen to one of the highest
positions in his profession, but she made me
"promise never to communicate with him, or
even reveal his name to you. It was on some
"excursion into the country to pass a holiday
"that she met for the first time her future
"husband, your father. By what artifices he
"cajoled her into marrying him is a mystery
upon which I can throw no light. He was
a well-educated man, and probably her defenceless
position, disowned by her natural protectors,
and thrown upon her resources among
strangers — all this may have had something todo
with it. His cunning adroitness conquered,
and it was reserved for her to discover after she

had been so lightly won, when farther trouble
to conceal the fact was unnecessary, that she
was the miserable bride of a criminal who had
successfully evaded justice. Yes, Ursula ; terrible
as it is for me to say it and for you to
hear it, your mother found herself yoked for
life to a swindler, with no prospect before him
but tardy vengeance on his misdeeds. The
blow was more than she could bear, and when
his reckless ill-usage of you both drove her
away from him, her delicate frame already held
within it the seeds of the disease which was to
kill her. Had he shown any disposition to
^ amend under her influence, she would not

have allowed the shadow of his dishonoured
life to stand between them permanently. Of
this she has often assured me, and in such
terms as I could not but believe. But even
this last hope was denied her, and she felt
that her duty to her innocent offspring must
be preserved at the cost of her duty to its
guilty parent. Her one thought was for her
child, that you might grow up pure and free
from taint. Her last days with us were tranquil,
if they were not happy. She was indefatigable
in helping us as long as her waning

strength lasted, never accepting anything from
us but simple hospitality, and the barest necessaries
of maintenance. Few women that I have

met have been so bountifully qualified by nature
to instruct others. She was an accomplished
linguist, and you inherit something of her
talent for drawing. To crown all, she had the
noblest spirit of perseverance, and we had no
idea how ill she was till the end was very near.
I have always thought that her devoted toil
'' hastened her death, but she would beg me not
'^ to hinder her whenever I remonstrated with
her for doing too much. ' You must let me
work,' she used to say, ' it will not be for
long;, and idleness is a torture to me because it
*' gives me time to think.' I can look back now
on the intimacy of those few months, short as
it was, with unalloyed pleasure. It was a
comfort to her to know that you would be our
"" dearest care after her death, and she it was who
first taught you to call us your aunts, Hilda considering
that to be the best way of accounting to
*' others for your appearance in our household.

And now," continued Joanna, drying her
eyes, and kissing Ursula, " I have told you
everything just as I promised your dear mother
on her death-bed that I would. But before I
•'' leave you to think over the sad past alone, my
child, I must give you these two packets, — one
containing your mother's greeting for to-day,
written by her own hand ; the other a jewel
which belonged to her, and which you are to

wear for her sake. Take them, my darling, and
be comforted."

So saying, she strained her young charge to
her breast in another long embrace, and withdrew
noiselessly from the room.

Slowly, painfully, the minutes went by while
Ursula sat motionless. There was a confused
humming; in her ears, and anguish smote into her
very soul with exceeding bitterness. The congealed
fountain of sorrow was broken up at last,
however, and burying her aching head in the
cushion she found relief in tears. Gradually the
tempest subsided into calm, selfish grief giving
way to the compassionate remembrance of her
mother's sufferings, and thankfulness that she herself
had been so happily spared. Her own girlhood
had been comparatively unclouded, and if
the future was less settled than she had supposed,
at least no one could rob her of this consoling
retrospect. She must make up her mind
to be less of a burden than ever to the two good
women who had brought her up ; she must brace
herself to endure, — nay, rather she must court —
circumstances and employments which before she
would have avoided as uncongenial. She must
not be unworthy of the mother who condescended
to mean drudgery for her even while the hand
of death was tightening its hold.

A sudden flash of colour dazzled her as she
opened the first packet. Ursula had never seen
so magnificent a sfaud. Her mother must indeed
have set great store by it to resist the temptation
of exchanging' it for the multitude of useful tliino;s
which she had so urgently needed. She took it
up tenderly, noting the elaborate workmanship
and chaste design. Then she slipped it into the
bosom of her dress in order to examine the other
packet.

It was a sealed envelope, and was addressed in
faint and delicate characters, " To my dear Ursula,
to be given to her on her twenty-first birthday,
if she lives to see it ; otherwise, to be destroyed
unopened."

Ursula pressed her lips to this superscription,
and reverently broke the seal. The letter contained
full confirmation of all that Joanna had
told her, adding no fresh particulars to the writer s
history, but testifying in a few simple and heartfelt
expressions of gratitude to the unbounded
sympathy and tenderness which mother and child
had experienced from Aunt Joan and her sister.

. . . . Never wound their kind hearts by
speaking to them under any colder names than
those by which you have hitherto been accustomed
to know them," so ran the letter ; " there
"is no one else under heaven to whom you owe
anything in comparison. The consecration of a

]ife to their service — though it may at some
future time involve leaving them to seek your
fortune in the world — would not be more than

they can justly claim As for your father,

I can only bid you pray for him. It is unlikely
you will ever see him ; the fear of what awaits
him in England will prevent his returning, and
he is doomed to end his days in some foreign
hiding-place. Probably he will long ago have
found means to console himself for our loss, if
he should be alive when this reaches you. I
'will not defend myself to you for deserting
him. Do not blame me for this, my dear
daughter ; 1 would have done anything to.
shield you from the knowledge of such infamy
as must have been mine, had I remained with
him. Still, I cannot bear, with death so close
at hand, to quite shut him out from his child's
influence. Should he ever, therefore, come to
you, my darling, humbly grieving for the past,
and showing the least desire to make such satisfaction
as is possible, do not refuse your hel23.
I loved him once, Ursula, — God knows how
truly, and how much it costs me to say so
now. If I have wronged him, then, not rightly
perceiving what to do, or how to serve you both,
'be yours the privilege of redressing the injury."
The letter concluded with many fervent outpourings
of the mother's anxiety for her daughter's

VOL. II. T

happiness, expressing the conviction that she
would at least not be destitute of that best form
of pleasure which comes from contributing to
the happiness of others, and begging her to keep
this last memento of a fond parent as well as
those which she might already possess.

Wistfully conning these appeals and injunctions
of the dead, Ursula mastered her emotion,
and sank into a deep and passionless reverie.
Her nature had that morning received a great
shock, — a shock which was in a measure to mould
her character afresh. She was softened, but not
crushed or broken. In one short hour she had
altered so far to become tractable, and know her
own dependence. And now that she was no
longer the plaything of contrary forces she became
imbued with sudden strength. The powers
of good had triumphed.

Her old pride was shaken, and she set about
reviewing her late experiences from an entirely
novel standpoint. Beginning with the time
when she first came to Burnport, she searched
her memory rigidly, changing or in some way
modifying nearly all her previous impressions,
till she reached the present, and reflected how
much harder it would have been, supposing Frank
Dalton had been an acceptable lover, and she
were obliged to tell him all this miserable story
before it would be possible for her to listen to

his addresses. The thought made her glad, not
that she had repulsed him, — she could not have
done otherwise, — but that her refusal had cost
her nothing. Had he been different, and she
more favourably disposed, it might have been
necessary to give him up after this revelation.
Yes, she would not deceive herself, this was no
situation in which she could refuse to look at an
ugly fact, and it was true enough that she had
thrown away what many people would have considered
an excellent chance of retrieving: her fortunes
almost at the very moment when she was
discovering her lack of resources. For, though
Frank was lazy and good for nothing, he was
rich, and perhaps he was not so very much more
impressed with the folly for him of attempting
to do any work than sagacious observers who
knew what he would come in for on his father's
death. She could not believe, however, that
Joanna would have been gratified to hear that
she had accepted Frank as her lover, knowing
there was very little cordiality between
them, and so she had nothing at all to reproach
her for having acted as she did. There was only
one thing about it which she regretted, and
that was the supercilious manner in which she
had dismissed the young gentleman. It is all
very well for a lady to decline the flattering
attentions of an adorer, but when she does not

take the trouble to control lier exultation at an
accident to the luckless swain's dignity, real or
imaginary, he surely has some reason to complain.
So, at least, thought Ursula, now that
the affair presented itself in a serious light. She
resolved, therefore, to atone for her rudeness
to the insulted youth by engaging him in conversation
on some future occasion, and healing
his wounded self-esteem by such small
marks of friendly consideration . as might occur
to her.

It was characteristic of the change which had
thus suddenly been initiated in the girl's disposition
that the thought of Frank should lead
her to think — as perhaps she had never done
consciously before — of Arnold. Contrast has
often as much to do with the succession of our
thoughts as similarity. Arnold and Frank were
the only two specimens of mankind in her own
generation with whom she had held anything
approaching to familiar intercourse. The fragmentary
conversations which had served to fill
up the intervals on those rare occasions when
she went to a dance did not count with Ursula.
She loved dancing, like every healthy and active
young creature, for its own sake, and on the
whole preferred a somewhat mature partner to a
youthful one, if there was not much difference
between them in point of activity and suppleness.

One of the weak points in Arnold was
that he had never learned to dance as if he
enjoyed that form of diversion. He could get
through a waltz tolerably, and always felt that
he ought to be thankful for a miraculous escape
if the evening passed without any especially
flagrant piece of awkwardness on his part. He
had congratulated himself more than once during
his Christmas festivity at Oakleigh that Ursula
was not present to witness his Terpsichorean performances,
being apprehensive whether she might
not lean to the conclusion that a polished floor
was a less suitable arena for his eccentric gambols
than the sawdust of a circus.

To tell the truth, however, the thought that
he mioiit be amusing; in the character of a dancer
had never entered Ursula's head. In her eyes
he had hitherto been little more than a simple,
honest fellow, — one who had generous impulses,
too, and was not without a leavening of mother-wit.
The Talons were fond of him ; she could
see that by the way they attended to him during
his convalescence. It was a pity he should have
had that accident, — he had such a pleasant give
face,— and the scar would not be quite concealed
by his hair. He seemed to behave very nicely
to Grace. Ursula was glad her friend had someone
stronger than her weakling of a brother to
depend on. Arnold Kobur and Frank Dalton !

It was a wide field, truly, that was covered by
the antithesis.

Meanwhile, the object of her thoughts was
down-stairs with Aunt Joan. He had called in
the hope of seeing Ursula herself, and hearing
her thank him with her own lips for the hamper
of flowers and. fruit which had just arrived by
his orders from Oakleigh to grace the birthday.

His disappointment at the intelligence that
Ursula was not well, and wished to be quiet, was
so apparent that Aunt Joan took pity on him,
and invited him to come in and have a chat with
her.

The fact is," she said, " this has not been an
altogether untroubled day for our dear child.
She has had some very sad news which it was
impossible for us to defer ; but she bears it
bravely, and I hope will be none the worse."

Arnold was startled. *' I am very sorry," he
said, without evincing any curiosity to hear
more.

Yes," replied Joanna, " I knew you would
be, and I do not keep this wretched business
from you because I think it would make any
difference in your feelings, except, perhaps, to
intensify them. It is very hard," she went on,
picking up her knitting and examining the
stitches, " when poor weak innocent people have
to suffer for the guilty."

That's the worst part of crime, I suppose,"
observed Arnold, at the same time internally
marvelling that there should be any connexion
between such a topic and his pure young mistress.

And the part the criminal never thinks of
till it is too late," acquiesced Joanna. " But I
imagine most of us who can boast a pedigree
have o't used to the fact of ha vino; had rogues
in the family."

Her tone amused Arnold. " I never heard
that the Borgia allowed their spirits to be
much affected by the foibles of their amiable
kith and kin," he said gaily. '' x\s long as
kleptomania and arson don't run in a family I
don't believe in the power of one rascal to blight
the existence of his whole posterity ; though, I
grant you, the notion is an excellent one for the
purposes of romance."

What's that I hear about romance ? " cried a
sweet voice, and Miss Hilda sailed into the room,
looking the picture of that ease and contentment
which only the very best conscience to be had,
or the entire absence of any, can produce.

Well, now, I declare !" she exclaimed, holding
up a delicate little hand at Arnold as he rose
to greet her, " two young people like you to be
talking about romance when you are left alone
together ! For shame, for shame ! "

Would you like to join in the conversation

too, Miss Blunsden ? " asked Arnold ; " I can
assure you we are not at all afraid of finding a
third person unsociable."

He could not help being rather acutely conscious
while he spoke, however, of the fact that
some third persons were decidedly less welcome
than others.

What a grudge Miss Hilda's progenitors
must be settling against posterity ! " he mused,
as he seized an early opportunity to retire.

CHAPTER XIV.

A Surprise.

Here, without pyre or bier,
Light Love was buried here,
Alas, his grave was wide and deep enough ;
Thrice, with averted head,
We cast dust on the dead,
And left him to his rest. An end of Love."

Andrew Lang.

Ay, ay, a lying, precocious imp of Satan it
is, to be sure," growled Mr. Dal ton, coming into
the sitting-room occupied by his family at Burn-port
just as Arnold was examining a highly-coloured
and singularly explicit representation
of the god Cupid which adorned the wall.
You'll admit that there never was a more
impudent, mundane brat, eh ? " he continued,
delighted with this opportunity for a tirade.

Well, it is a trifle gross, certainly," replied
Arnold with the artful intention of oriviuo- his
host the rein.

Gross! " cried Mr. Dalton, snapping eagerly
at the word, with the suggestion of a terrier

finding something to worry : '^ gross ! d'ye mean
to tell me it isn't just the truest imitation of
nature possible ? D'ye mean to inform me that
real love is one bit more decent, more temperate,
better behaved, or in a general way more respectable
than that naked devilkin over there ? Why,
man, I would have you to know "

I quite agree with you," interrupted the
other, smiling at the old gentleman's pugnacity.

Mr. Dalton was aghast at this. perfidious way
of cutting short the controversy ; he was by no
means attracted by such onesided reciprocity, as
some Hibernian once phrased it.

Come now, Arnold Eobur," said he, " it's
too bad of you to turn round, and pretend to
agree with me. But I see your quibble," he
exclaimed suddenly, as a happy inspiration seized
him. " You are going to say that you don't
believe real love is any better than it should be ;
and that the picture, having nothing ideal about
it, is true enough to life so far as it goes."

Well, Mr. Dalton, suppose I mean that, have
you anything to say to it ? "

Nay, nay, my friend, but you do mean it
without any supposing. Now I'll give you a
piece of advice, — don't you believe all that stuff
about ideals. Why, I knew a man once — he was
a farmer up in the North — who went in for
raising an ideal manhood. His crop always beat

those of the other farmers in his part of the
world, but that wasn't enough for him. He
didn't care about coming up to other folks' expectations,
he must come up to his own. Well,
does he ever do it ? Not he. On he went year
after year, never getting within recognisable
distance of that manhood in his head, — on his
brain, you know, — and at last he ruined himself
in patent drainage and manures. No, no ; mark
my word, ideals are a breed of white elephant
with quite a special gift for making fools and
idiots of their owners."

How this sound maxim might have been
further illustrated by references to a fertile experience
can only be surmised, as Grace at that
moment entered, and, observing that the two
gentlemen did not seem inclined to continue the
conversation in which they were engaged, said
unsuspiciously —

"To change the subject, whatever it is, Ursula
can come to dinner, after all, as she has got over
her headache."

'' That's a good job," remarked Mr. Dalton,
who had developed a great fancy for that young
lady from his short acquaintance with her.
Ursula Lor ton is a girl after my own heart.
She must have something unpractical about her,
I suppose, like the rest of her sex, but I haven't
been able to find it yet. There, there, my dear,"

he added, relaxing; somewhat as his daughter
shook her finger at him playfully, "Arnold
Robur here has been ' drawing ' me, as you call
it, and Fm soured for the evening."

Nevertheless he was prevailed upon to make
himself thoroughly amiable by the time Ursula
made her appearance. She came with Miss
Hilda, who had a bath-chair specially retained
for her use on such occasions.

The child actually walked, my dear Mrs.
Dalton," explained the Mother Superior ; " she
says she prefers it to having another chair," and
the company were then edified with a fervent
eulogy of that unsociable vehicle's advantages.

Every attempt made by Arnold to have some
talk with Ursula proved abortive. At dinner
they were separated by the entire length of the
table, and afterwards whenever he began to move
in her direction he was recalled by the voice of
his hostess, or by some enquiry on the part of
Miss Hilda, invariably leading up to a lengthy
disquisition in which he was required to join
by delivering himself of expressive monosyllabic
comments at short intervals. These hindrances
were placed so unremittingly in his way that
eventually he resigned himself to them as something
inevitable, and tried not to envy Frank,
whose conversation Ursula appeared to find vastly
interesting, to judge by her attentive face.

Arnold watched them intently, wondering what
topic they could possibly have in common. Do
what he would, the thought persistently occurred
that she was purposely avoiding him. It was
absurd, childish, however, to suppose that she
could really care for Frank. And yet, why had
she been too ill to see anyone — or, at least,
Arnold himself — this morning, and yet was well
enough to enjoy Frank's society now ? And
why, too, had Joanna stayed away ? Did she
know anything about this ? Perhaps Ursula
had come not expecting to meet her unwelcome
caller. Nonsense ! — Hark ! some one was
asking him to play. Who ? He rose with a
confused sense of making some mistake, stammering
out, " Oh, nothing of the sort ; pray
don't mention it ; I should be so much obliged,"
to the amazement of Miss Hilda, who was
in the middle of one of her portentous rigmaroles,
and was congratulating herself upon her
listener.

It was Mrs. Dalton who had invited him to
perform, and as he passed her on his way to the
piano she whispered, " Something lively, you
know ; what makes you so dull this evening ? "

Arnold opened the instrument desperately.
He could not see anything he knew among
the pieces of music that lay scattered about,
and he was unwilling to trust his memory.

Glancing at Ursula, however, lie saw that she
had deserted Frank, and taken a chair a little
apart from the others, evidently wishing to
enjoy the music without interruption. Mightily
reassured he sat down at once, — so easily is the
interval between courage and faintness traversed
and burst into a jubilant and intricate strain.
There was a feverish intensity about it which
chimed in well with his present humour, its
spirit seeming, as he played, to grow almost
identical with his own. The ups and downs of
these weary days were figured in its rapid and
capricious alternations ; he saw in it a more
intelligible reflection of his hopes and fears than
could have been expressed in words. Considering
that the Muse of Harmony — whatever
scandals may be whispered about her august
sisters — is held to have an undoubted right to
the patent of her inventions, owing nothing for
her ideas to any alien source, the unskilled in
such mysteries can but exclaim, in paraphrase
of a well-worn epigram, " Nature, Music,
which of you two is the greater plagiarist ? "

Perhaps the hardest part of falling in love,
from the man's point of view, is the preliminary
difficulty of carrying to the other person concerned
any notion of the feelings she inspires
in at least one heart. Now a cynical opinion is
frequently expressed, and sometimes believed,

that there is less danger of this obstacle to
courtship than of that opposite fruitful source of
unhappiness, the morbid haste with which some
females are prone to construe mere civilities as
acts of peculiar homage. But, though it is
unfortunately true that ladies belonging to the
vulgar leisured class do employ their sickly,
undeveloped imaginations on trash of this description,
it is one of the delightful idiosyncrasies
of their sex that the talent for discovering
admirers in simple acquaintances makes them no
whit quicker at understanding the modest overtures
of genuine attachment than their less gifted
and — it is to be hoped — more numerous inferiors.
For the time has come when a teat and vino



creasing proportion of women are making up
their minds that they must dry their eyes, and
set to work,— not against, but on equal terms
with men. Nor does this revolutionary defection
only touch the interests of those whom it has
led astray. It actually imposes a larger demand
on the lachrymal resources of the dwindling fraction
of superiors which yet remains faithful to the
respectable traditions of Park Lane and Grosvenor
Square, increasing the average capacity of each
tear-bottle kept by Etruscan dame or damsel in
that stately region to the dimensions of a family
water-butt. Who can have any sympathy fora
movement not less selfish in its tyranny over

others than depraving in its influence on it
actual supporters ?

Ursula had something else to think about,
however, and never troubled her head as to
whether the freshness of her beauty had anything
or to do with the regard which her friends
]said her. The fact had not escaped Arnold's
notice, and in his saner moments he would often
impress upon himself the warning that she
looked upon him as nothing more than an
agreeable acquaintance, at the utmost. For a
time, while he could not be satisfied with such
a relation, he consented to bear with it as the
necessary prologue to fuller communion ; he
could even feel acute pleasure at having made
good this advantage, slight as it was. But ever
since that conversation with Armitage on the
night of the " accident " he had been growing less
cheerful in his resignation. Ashy should his
hope stand still ? he asked himself. Every day
made the negative privilege which he enjoyed
more painfully insufficient. Casting about for
any means to familiarise the object of his devotion
delicately and gradually, but not doubtfully —
with the consciousness of it, he soon began to
lose self-control, forming impressions which bore
a striking family resemblance to his wishes. He
became fidgety, and his mind took long excursions
to inaccessible regions. He was a prey to

all the terrors of uneasiness. His natural consideration
for other people deserted him. General
conversation was the spark that set his irritable
temper aflame. Books and company were alike
distasteful. Leisure was torment, and yet he
could do nothing. Fearing solitude, he feared
society more. Certainty of the worst would be
preferable to the protracted agony of suspense,
and he resolved to rush upon his fate the very
next day, if possible.

But few riders can keep a firm seat on the
bare back of a restive and untrained ambition
for long without a tumble. Arnold had wound
up his performance at the piano, and was acknowledging
Mrs. Dalton's approving, though
somewhat erratic, criticism, when Grace came
up to ask him to accompany a song for Ursula.
You will be able to manage it better than I
can," said she; "it's quite new to me, and I
never could read music at sight a bit."

o

Ursula was at the piano, and beckoned to him
with a smile. " Look, she's calling you," whispered
Grace, and. turned to talk to Miss Blunsden.

Arnold's blood tinged with delight at this
fresh sign of encouragement. It was clear that
Ursula had not been avoiding him. She had
been pertinaciously bored by Frank, — that was
all ; and now that she was free to attend to
anyone else she had summoned Arnold to her

VO],. II. u

side. Here was a chance for one of those rare
strokes of passionate diplomacy for which he
was always preparing.

Coming totally by surprise, this piece of good
fortune intoxicated the young man, robbing him
of his wits. Vanity took the place of his late
jealousy ; he advanced confidently. Ursula was
extricating the particular song she wished to
sing from a bundle of others, and he meandered
about the key-board till she was ready.

Here it is," cried she, spreading the piece of
music open on the desk before him, and indicating;
with her hand some difficult feature in the
accompaniment. For a moment Arnold's eyes
rested where she pointed, then, with an inarticulate
gasp, he fell back pale and powerless
as a corpse. Panic made him quake in every
limb, his teeth chattered, he could not swallow, his
head swam, and a deadly nausea came over him.

What had happened? They all crowded
round him suggesting reasons for this attack,
and remedies. Some thought it was ague, while
Mrs. Dalton inclined to a suggestion from Aunt
Hilda that the symptoms were those of paralysis.
In which case," observed that considerate
spinster, " nothing could be better than for you
to send one of your servants to ask Joanna fora
bottle of the light medicine which I always
keep for such emergencies."

Meanwhile Arnold, whose head Ursula was supporting,

recovered himself with a supreme effort,
and, Mr. Dalton appearing with some brandy, he
was made to take a dose of the stimulant, and lie
down afterwards on the sofa for a little.

That hole in your head is not such a trifle as
you want to persuade us, my lad," said the kindly
host ; " you're in too much of a hurry to get
Avell, let me tell you. No more orgies and late
hours till you're strong again, mind that."

No, no ; I have been in too great a hurry, as
you say," muttered Arnold, trying to smile ; " but
I'm all right now, and should like to get home
and go to bed, if you'll excuse my taking myself
off in this unceremonious way."

So saying he took leave hastily of the rest of
the party, and found his way down-stairs on Mr.
Dalton's arm, which was not with drawn till the
hotel was reached.

A letter was waiting for him. As he took it
he noticed that it had been posted in the town
and bore the local mark. A circular, probably.
The g-as on the landing showed him his name on
the envelope written in an angular scrawl.

Doubtless an announcement of some clearance
sale of drapery, or an application for left off
clothes. "What a waste of time, stamps, ink, and
paper must be the price of gratifying this taste
for speculative advertising !

He threw himself, dressed as he was, upon his
bed, still holding the letter in his hand. What

U 2

was best to be don ? He tried to think over the
events of the evening, but his mind refused
obedience, and harped persistently upon indifferent
subjects. This advertising, now ; there
must be something in it. People professed not
to be influenced by advertisements, and yet they
must be. Newspapers owed a large part of their
revenues to them, and even art was bribed into
lending; itself to the celebration of unmarketable
stuff as a seductive form of encouragement to
buyers. But what was all this to him ? His
candle was guttering. He watched it idly as it
flared and smoked. Never mind ; there was
nothing near enough to catch fire, and he did
not want to see in order to think. The wick
grew longer and longer ; then the flame died
down, and there was only a smouldering piece of
tinder where it had been. Even that disappeared
at last ; there was nothing to distract him now.
A thief in the candle ! What did that remind
him of ? Anything he had seen lately ? Anything
within the last hour ? He pressed his hands
upon his eyes. Oh, Frank, Frank 1 It was too
hard to bear. He could retaliate ; why not ?
Who could bear this fresh outrage ? Few would
have taken in silence, as he had done, that other
desperate wrong. And this was worse. There
had been a plain motive, then, besides vague
hatred, for that murderous attack ; and one crime
had led to another. A man's goods, and even his

life, are not always of such importance but that
the attempt to deprive him of them may be
forgiven by the sufferer. Frank's conduct hud
never till that moment stirred Arnold's indignation
to the depths. Many a time in the last few
years he had been a prey to that strange sickliness
of youth which prefaces a more robust
nobility, and pictured death to be no grisly
spectre, but a winsome shade with arms soft to
lull all they embraced. Yes, Frank would have
been kinder to take his life before his love ;
for impunity — what else could it be ? — had encouraged
the boy to this last step on the road
to infamy. He had cut himself off from forgiveness
now ; and yet Arnold, though he no
longer felt the smallest compunction about exposing
him to any pains and penalties whatsoever,
had his hands tied by the conviction that, if
deserved misfortune were to overtake Frank, an
innocent victim — Ursula herself, — would be implicated.
Great heaven ! what infatuation had
prompted her to accept that pledge of base affection
which it had been her first act of responsibility
before the world to display so carelessly ?
It was an insoluble riddle. Arnold groaned to
think that marriage in her case, too, was doomed
after all to be the gloomy sacrificial rite of a
savage deity whose delight was in an altar stained
with fresh traces of human anguish. But, if
Ursula was to sit in dust and ashes all her days

VOL. II. X

as soon as lie had discovered her error, there
would be time enough, alas, for this repentance ;
she should not reproach him for having hastened
it. He would go away, get some work to do, and
cultivate cynicism during intervals.

Heigh-ho I with youth, health, and appetite —
and I shall soon regain the two last — there is
every reason why I should still hold myself fortunate,
no doubt," and he laughed bitterly.

He got off the bed, and lit a fresh candle.
Plans for leaving Burnport and its bitter-sweet
associations began to shape themselves. Flight
was the only thing : not another idle hour would
he pass in the place. He would go home tomorrow,
only giving himself time to pay his bills
and pack. He would not even say good-bye to
the Daltonss ; it would be better to explain things
in a letter, when he could not be asked awkward
questions. Besides, he did not want to run the
risk of meeting Frank again ; the sight of that
miserable young ruffian might tempt him from
his present determination to do nothing — nothing
to occasion a moment's uneasiness to Ursula.
Was there no hope that his memory of her would
ever be obliterated ? Articulate prayer had always
seemed to him an unnatural effort, but he felt
that one definite entreaty would henceforth rise
spontaneously from his heart to his lips, — that
these last few weeks in his life might be clean
forgotten out of mind.

He would write to Joanna, too, when he reached
home. She mio^ht have for warned him. He had
thought her unusually excited that morning.
Perhaps she was going to do so when Miss Hilda
interrupted them. Ah, — now he remembered —
she had already begun to hint at some mysterious
news about Ursula.

He took one or two restless turns up and down
the room.

The letter lying on the bed where he had
dropped it caught his attention. Anything for
distraction. He opened it.

"Dear Mr. Robur,

You will shortly discover, if you
have not done so already, the futility of paying
"your addresses in a certain quarter. She has
compromised herself, — hastily and thoughtlessly,
it may be, — but none the less fatally for
that, as far as you are concerned, — and your
brief dream is over. I will not say that I am
grieved for your fate. Perhaps you have really
had an escape. It would have been a great
mistake in your calculations to have married a
"girl who has just proved her marked preference
for the biggest blockhead within my somewhat
extensive experience. I pity her for the heedless
folly with which she has jumped at this
connexion. The whole thing has been kept so
secret that I knew nothing of it before to-day,

when she becomes her own mistress. Now,
however, she seems resolved to avow it openly ;
aod I white off to you at once to forearm you,
if possible, against the shock. Under the painful
circumstances you will see the advisability,
I trust, of not remaining here any longer ; it
could only lead to further embarrassment. Think
'•'no more of her ; she has friends, old and new,
who will do all they can for her. My own
feelings towards her are unchanged even by
this blow.

One lobo wishes you had met with your deserts.

Forgive me for remaining anonymous. The
slightest screen is welcome, and I do not want
'this subject reopened if wee should ever meet
"again."

Who was the writer ? Putting all the facts
together, as far as he knew them, Arnold arrived
at the inevitable conclusion that his construction
of Joanna's behaviour had been only too accurate.
He did not recognise the writings, but he was not
sufficiently acquainted with her hand to say that
she could not have written it. Certainly there
vas a feminine angularity about it, and the undemonstrative
sympathy which it seemed to him
to express was quite in keeping with Aunt Joan's
character. Without doubt she was responsible
for the words which he had just read.

The worst had come to the worst, and he was

not oroino^ to waste sentiment over it. The letter
explained everything, and confirmed him in his
purpose to beat a retreat from the field next
day. He was not particularly surprised by this
final piece of evidence ; the force of the blow
was spent before, and he experienced a sort
of pleasure that he would be saved the disagreeable
task of writing to Joanna to account for his
departure. He set light to the paper with the
candle, and tossing the flaming; mass into the
grate began wearily to undress.

Our lo^'ic has an inconvenient trick of deserting
us when we need it most. Human intercourse
is indispensable enough, but no slight
penalty is exacted for its enjoyment in the
monstrous cross-purposes, the thousand distorted
impressions and false conclusions with which it
hems us in.

Returning to East Else, ]\Iiss Blunsden and
Ursula found Aunt Joan yawning over some
worsted garment apparently designed for the
torture of a poor dependant. She had stayed
at home out of sheer obstinacy, according to
Miss Hilda, and also for the minor reason — a
fact of which the elder sister was unaware — that
she was nervous lest Lorton might get into the
house in her absence, when there was no knowing
what mischief might follow. She had gone
out very little since his first visit, feeling that
he was probably waiting for her vigilance to be

relaxed to seize a fresh advantage. He was sure
to come and enquire whether Ursula had received
his present, and she was nerving herself for that
opportunity to scare him away from the neighbourhood.


Miss Hilda recited the account of Arnold's
sudden relapse with appropriate dramatic action.
She then proceeded to give an exhilarating
sketch of the points in which his] symptoms
tallied with those of other cases with which she
had been on terms of intimacy, including her
own ; and finally, relinquishing particulars for
generalities, testified in flattering terms to the
sovereign excellence of her private elixir as a
specific for any form of disease known to body
or spirit.

Joanna was startled. She looked at Ursula,
and wondered whether anxiety about her had
anything to do with her lover's illness.

'' Poor fellow, I wish I had been there," she
said.

Oh, you couldn't have done any good, my
dear, if you had been." rejoined her sister, not
without a suspicion of asperity in her mild voice.
*' I saw what was the matter with the poor young
man at once, and Mrs. Dalton — an extremely
sensible woman on most topics — agreed with me
perfectly. There were quite enough of us there
without your aunt, weren't there, my child ? "
and she turned to Ursula, or rather to the place

where she had been standing ; for Ursula had
disappeared, finding Miss Hilda's high spirits
too much for her.

'well, now, what do you say to that, Joanna
dear ? A positive breach of manners and
decency ! "

"Nonsense, Hilda. Do you forget what the
poor child has been through to-day ? Besides, I
daresay she's tired and worried with the excitement
of this evening. I thought she looked pale
when she came in."

Pale, hem," observed Miss Hilda meditatively,
sinking into her chair of state with a sigh of
relief ; " well, well, a little of my "

Yes, I'll see she has it," interrupted the
other, anxious to avert another digression
concerning: the beneficent drug;.

My dear, how impatient you are ! " Miss
Blunsden was getting drowsy, and went on ina
droning, sing-song tone that was particularly
exasperating to her sister. " There may be more
cause for her excitement than you think of.
That young Mr. Frank Dalton is very attentive,
and she seems to like him."

Joanna laughed scornfully. "And do you
approve ? " she enquired in a not altogether
pleasant manner.

T do not see what there is so very laughable
about it, dearest. It seems to one very natural
and proper. And, let me tell you, it would be

by no means disadvantageous to our darling. Mr.
Dalton has plenty of property, and only three
children to leave it to ; and his son seems a very
nice, quiet, gentlemanly young man. I do
hope, Joanna, you will not allow any absurd
prejudice to stand in the way of our sweet
child's prospects."

I confess to having a certain amount of
jealousy for her sake, if that's wdiat you
mean," remarked Aunt Joan severely ; " and,
to tell you the truth, Hilda, I'm not so
drawn to Frank Dalton as you seem to be ;
but perhaps that's because I am so dreadfully
unromantic."

This was a home thrust ; but Miss Hilda
sustained it with angelic fortitude.

'^ You must really try to curb your foolish,
unchristian pride, my dear," she said, and fell
sound asleep.

Joanna looked at her recumbent form for a
moment as if she would have liked to shake it.
Better counsels triumphed, however. She extinguished
the lights, and retired on tip-toe.

END OF VOLUME II.

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS

&Z3
c 131 fa

V.3

VOL. III.

% Mood

By martin combe

AND

DUNCAN LISLE

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

LOI^DO¥: CHAPMAN AND HALL
Limited



[All rights reserved]

BUNGAY,

and Bread Street Hill, London.

CONTENTS OF VOLUME III.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

WISDOM OR FOLLY? . . . . 1

CHAPTER 11.

CROSS QUESTIONS AND CROOKED ANSWERS . . 22

CHAPTER III.

SQUIRES AND DAMES . . . . 49

CHAPTER IV.
"a gentleman to see you" . . . 74

CHAPTER V.

"honour thy father" . . . 97

CHAPTER VI.

Gibbons TAKES OFF HIS COAT . . . 124

CHAPTER VII.

GUESSED WRONG . . . . 139

CHAPTER VIII.

Unresisted .

PAGE

161

CHAPTER IX.

CONTRA MUXDUM . . . . 177

CHAPTER X.

PENITENTS . . . . . 200

CHAPTER XI.

OUTSIDE THE STATION . . . . 222

CHAPTER XII.

INSIDE THE STATION . . . . 251

CHAPTER XIII.

WHOLESALE BUSINESS . . . . 261

CHAPTER XIV.

JOANNA LOOKS OUT OF THE WINDOW . . 285

CHAPTEE I.

WISDOM OE FOLLY?

'the noble mansion is most distinguished by the beautiful
images it retains of beings passed away; and so is the
noble mid." — Landor.

Arnold's sudden return was a surprise to the
simple priest and priestess of his household gods.
To Barbara it came at first as a pleasurable
shock. But bodily presence is a poor compensation
for absence of mind. The sympathetic
creature felt that her enquiries and her company
were alike irksome to her master, and soon
descended to her room down-stairs with so woebegone
an expression on her fallen countenance
that Gibbins, who was waiting there to hear
what news she brought, grew instantaneously
hopeful. In a moment the depression which
normally affected his mental atmosphere had
cleared away. For the nonce his star was in

VOL. III.

the ascendant, and seemed to twinkle as brightly
as could be desired.

Bin a knocking' of his 'eat up again a brick
wall this time, eh, mum ? "

There was a subdued ring of conviction about
the remark that made it sound less like a question
than an assertion.

I wish you'd try it on yourself, Joshua Gibbins,"
retorted the housekeeper, quite viciously
for her. '' Only don't do it here," she added
with bitter sarcasm ; "I can't have the place
littered up with sawdust and bran ; Rhoda's got
enough to do without any extra sweeping."

Here was a thunder-clap ! Could any sane
bailiff — and to be a bailiff a man must be very
sane indeed — have believed it possible that she,
Barbara Marchpane, the mildest, most equable
of matrons, should so far forget herself as to
indulge in speculations of a personal nature
relative to the contents of his cranium ? If
there had been any provocation, now, the case
would have been different.

Their tempers is awful screwy," mused
Joshua, veiling under the discreet generality of
the plural an express allusion to one member
of the sex to which this somewhat elliptical
proposition was doubtless intended to refer.

Not all the orange-peel," h^. went on sententiously,
addressing the offender aloud, '' not

all the orange-peel of all the oranges what
growed on all the orange-trees since the world
began, Mrs. Marchpane, mum, lev caused so
many slips as reticule."

Stuff and nonsense ! you and your orange-peel
! IVe no patience with you, Joshua."
She could not help smiling a little, however, and
a smile chases the wrinkles from one's brow, do
what one will.

'every well, mum, as you please. But, all
the same, what I maintains is that for general
sleepiness, and being a orkard thing to handle,
so to speak, reticule and greasy poles ain't
to be named together." With these words Mr.
Gibbins rose and retired with ponderous sedateness,
leaving the lady to think better of it.

There ain't no 'int of nothing Pharisee-like
about me," reflected he as he wended his way
towards the farmyard, "and as for being stuck-pish,
I can take my oath as there ain't a
ewe-lamb what knows its place modern what I
do. But if there is any think as I can't stum-mick
it is for her to take and use me for a
laughing-stick. Not as I likes any one to do it ;
but it's fuss when she breaks out a reddyculin ,
'cos she knows how it's got to be done in a way
that's jest downright sinful." He stooped to
fasten one of his gaiters which was flapping.
'•' Some day I shall upon answer her, I specks.

when she's in one o' these 'ere recldyculin'
humours. Perhaps she don't know how near she
was getting' blistered after what she said just
now. But there, what do I care for her in-counters
? 'Ain't as if I didn't know what's
inside o' here," and he tapped his head. " Only
let her mind she don't go too fur, and drive me
past where I won't stand no more badger' ;
that's all."

Joshua was as near an actual ebullition of
spleen that afternoon as it was possible for him
to be. He was annoyed that Arnold did not
send for him to consult about matters on the
estate. But the evening wore away without
any sign on the part of the master that he
wished to be disturbed from his privacy ; and
Gibbins had to content himself with a game of
cribbage, over which he squared his little difference
with Barbara by having all the luck on his
side, and beating her to fits — of laughter. After
this he became much more charitable towards
her, explaining her mistakes with compassionate
superiority, and thereby successfully propitiating
her till she grew communicative once more, and
allowed him to extract from her the little she
knew about Arnold's condition.

Meanwhile our hero was having a restless time
enough. His mood was not an amiable one,
nor did it console him to remember that, after

all, lie had no right to be angry: If Ursula
chose to like someone else better, what could it
matter to him who that someone might happen
to be ? His thoughts harped upon the early
days of his suspense, before the agitation which
it occasioned had grown so acutely painful as it
had been of late. The memory of that time
rose up vividly before him now. Uncertainty
had grown and grown till it became his bugbear.
"Let me be sure of what is to be," he
had cried, " and this cup of agony shall pass
from me."

Wei], he was sure now, and things seemed
worse than ever. Would they remain so ?
There was no longer any one to please but himself,
and life was straightway become no longer
desirable. Irony of circumstances ! He had
caught a glimpse of enjoyment so high and pure
that it had dazzled him, and threatened to make
him blind to every other delight in the future.
Having once tasted nectar and ambrosia, how
was it possible to put up with beef and beer for
the rest of his existence ?

He took up the lamp with a sigh, and began
to scan the book-shelves for a likely adviser.
Some old classic was the thing he wanted, something
to stimulate him with its crisp Pagan
freshness, something which required concentration,
too, for all its simplicity, that his thoughts

mifflit have • less chance of recurring: to their
noblest monotony of retrospection.

It was some time before he found it, and
dragged it eagerly from its retreat.

'theocritus! The very fellow! Come, my
friend ; you shall sing me to sleep."

He threw himself into his chair, trimmed the
lamp, and opened the vellum-bound volume.
It was the copy in which he had first become
acquainted with the treasures of the old Sicilian
poet, and he had never known another. The
influence of old associations was upon him, and
he was speedily absorbed in a sweet pastoral
melody. The goatherd's passionate outcries, his
hopes and fears, his diffidence and his assurance,
his morbid sensitiveness to any trifle which
might have the least imaginary connexion with
the fair nymph who shut out from him all
else that the universe contained of beauty, — all
this was so true a type of what they feel who are
possessed by the divine frenzy of Jove that the
bitterness of baulked ambition in Arnold must
have been doubly intensified, and a new poignancy
added to it, but for the unutterable spell
of those potent numbers which allay with their
subtle thrill of bliss the throbbing; of awakened
grief. The general effect of the idyll upon the
reader was inexplicably sedative. He turned
over the leaves dreamily till they lay open at the

page where the rude Cyclops shows himself
transformed into a tractable and amiable monster
by a mermaid's unkind witchery. There was a
fascination that could not be resisted in this
picture of the metamorphosed Polyphemus, a
truculent cannibal changed into a gentle and
venerable hermit. No portent this, but an age-less
truism ; no illusion depending upon that
graceful legerdemain which has passed away
with the spirit of antique song ; but a reality
still, in spite of the narrow exactitude of bloated
science, and the rancorous babble of specialists.
A clown has as much chance of becoming a
gentleman to-day as his "rude forefather" had
two thousand years ago. The grace of chivalry,
the refinement of saintliness, seek shelter everywhere
and everywhere, and decorate their tenements
with a glory not widely different from
that which once hallowed a stable for Love's
mighty advent.

But the poor heathen Cyclops knew nothing
of this, and consequently there is a sordid touch
about the conclusion of his lament which grates
upon the modern reader with its too practical
consideration of ways and means for the attainment
of something to stay the pang of baffled
passion. It may be very pleasant and comfortable
for the lover to be able to console himself
with the inspiring reflection that a bird in the

liancl is worth two in the bush, or that there are
more and better Galatea in the sea than ever
came out of it, but he ceases to interest farther
after the expression of such opinions. A contemptuous
'' God-speed, good Cyclops ! " and
that cautious hero is forgotten. There is no
such phrase as second best in the vocabulary of
love. One tldng or nothing is the legend on its
standards, which accounts quite as much for its
many victories as for its numerous defeats.

Arnold had had his fill of Theocritus. He
closed the book, feeling restored by its sweetness,
but not inclined to be amused by its
cynicism. He was more than ever conscious
that no one was to blame for his misery. He had
got the certainty which he had demanded ; that
was all. An ugly shock it was, to be sure, but
ought he not to rejoice that it had not been
deferred till it would have been even harder to
bear ? He would do nothing hastily or wildly ;
no wretched impulse of pique or animosity
should sway him. Not that he could ever
forget her, — at least, so it seemed to him now, —
nor did he intend to try. Time would sweeten
and purify her memory for him, but could not
obliterate it. Why should the thought of her
cease to animate him, now that he was deprived
merely of that close union which he had panted
for? An idealised conception of her was still

possible, — might be more possible, when once
the grief of seeming separation was assuaged,
and there could be no danger of her falling short
of his idea. It was somewhat early to form
these new hopes, and he came very near breaking
down in the attempt. But by little and
little he grew calmer than he had been for long,
and was able to see how much good might yet
be extracted from life. If sympathy and, in
some sense, companionship are essential to
happiness, these blessings may be enjoyed without
actual engagements or marriages, and it does
not necessarily follow that such institutions are
always sure of achieving the end for which they
are designed. Circumstances may unfortunately
occur to make enforced and insoluble unions the
reverse of companionable or sympathetic. Not
that anything would be gained by dwelling on
such chances before there is any probability of
their coming to pass. Wiseacres might have
consoled themselves by saying that Arnold and
Ursula were too much alike to suit each other ;
for Arnold it was enough to know that, had he
been worthy of everything else in the world
twice over, he could never have deserved his
lady's regard.

Next morning he was up betimes, and, in the
determination not to be crushed or dejected, sent
for Gibbins immediately after breakfast.

Glad to see yon a-lookin' so well, sir' was
that functionary's first remark on entering the
room ; " maybe you'll stop and cheer us up a bit
now you're back among us again. We've bin'
powerful lonesome and low-spirited since you
left us, Mr. Arnold."

Why, how's that, Gibbins ? What's become
of the ' brighter side ' ? "

'well, sir, it's bin a-keepin' wonderful dark
lately, to be sure ; but I repose it's there all the
same."

Gibbins," said Arnold encouragingly, " you
are the apocalypse of common-sense ! "

''Ah," ejaculated the bailiff, drawing a long
breath, and stepping back suddenly as if he were
rather overpowered by the compliment ; " there's
more in that 'ere name than meets the hear, Mr.
Arnold, as you and I knows, sir. Now a outsider
might lev said it was aboose. I've half a mind
to try it on Mrs. Marchpane, and see how she
takes it."

A harmless threat, for he had completely forgotten
the phrase, if he had ever caught it ; but
it alarmed Arnold.

"No, don't do that," he said hastily; "it
was only my fun, you know, and she wouldn't
understand it as you do."

Very well, sir," replied Gibbins with dignity ;
I think it 'ud please her ; but, howsoever, your

been' so set again it puts the whole matter on a
private and confident footio', and I ain't a-going
to whisper none o' your secrets, sir ; rest upon
me."

Arnold's mind was relieved. He unlocked a
drawer, and produced some folded sheets of
foolscap. Handing them to his companion he
requested him to tell him if he had ever seen
them before. Gibbins fumbled in his pocket, and
produced an enormous pair of spectacles of
extremely massive workmanship. Carefully adjusting
this engine, — for no other word can aptly
describe so ponderous a structure, — he brought
the document into focus with elaborate precision,
and delivered himself of the laconic rejoinder,
Exactly."

You recognize those papers ? "

But Joshua Gibbins was not the man to transact
business with unseemly haste, and it was not
until he had gingerly removed the spectacles from
his nose, and ceremoniously restored them to his
voluminous coat-tail, as though he were afraid of
the disastrous effect upon them of such unusual
wear and tear, that he replied :

*' In course I minds 'em, sir. Why, I see that
'ere intention drawer up by the clerk what was
sent down to do it after your poor mother died,
Mr. Arnold, and you was left a hinfant-at-arms,
as the lawyers say. And I won't deny as I had

a 'and in it myself, sir," he added, a pardonable
pride suffusing his sagacious visage, as he gave
the papers back to their owner.

Joshua's phraseology was wont to be a trifle
mixed, and the distinction between an invention
and an inventory seems to have been scarcely less
obscure to him than that nautical problem concerning
rudder and bowsprit which is related to
have puzzled certain voyagers of classic renown.

Somebody has put a foot as well as a hand in
it, I should say," observed Arnold ; " anyhow, it's
full of mistakes. There are things down in it
that I can't find, and some things aren't mentioned
at all."

Now that's a rum go, that is." Gibbins
scratched his head comprehensively.

ril be sworn everything as I know'd on was
put down in they bits o' paper," he went on ;
seems like as if they must a' got rubbed out
afterwards. No, sir ; a rummer go never went,
sure-ly."

Arnold's sole object in thus cross-questioning
his faithful retainer was to get at the truth about
his mother's ring, which was included in the
inventory of her jewels, but was not to be found
among them. But, eager as he was to satisfy his
natural curiosity upon this point, he did not want
to be the first to mention the missing heirloom,
being fearful of hurting the feelings of the honest

bailiff. Besides, he had known of the loss for
some time without making any enquiries about
it, and he could not explain to Gibbins the fresh
impetus which he had received from recent events
to investigate the matter. He therefore persevered
in his circuitous method of examination, hoping
that the examine might presently throw some
accidental light on the mystery of his own
accord.

Take the pictures, for instance," resumed
Arnold. '^ Here's one in the inventory described
as * portrait of a gentleman ' ; but I've never been
able to discover it."

That's all right, sir," responded Gibbins
cheerfully ; " there's the article in question," and
he jerked his thumb at a painting which was
hanging on the wall behind his chair.

Why, but that's a picture of St. Peter, by
Correggio ; I was just coming to it, because the
inventory doesn't say a word about it, and it's
one of the best pictures we have. Mr. Dalton
was talking about it only the other day, and he's
a judge of such things, you know. Just look at
the keys in the saint's hand, — and then the robes,
too, and the glory about his head ; it's quite plain
who it is meant to represent."

But Gibbins was unaffected by such arguments.

*' Well, sir, he lour a gentleman, wasn't he ? "
he asked, in some surprise at what probably

appeared to him to be a most unorthodox imputation
upon St. Peter's private life.

Yes, I don't suppose anyone would care to
deny that," laughed Arnold. " I suppose the
inventory is right enough, then, and it's my
fault if I don't understand it."

^' That's my notion, sir." replied Gibbins with
uncompromising severity. " You see, Mr. Arnold,"
he proceeded, " I alius likes to set down a thing
fair and square jest so fur as I'm sure on it, and
no further. In the matter o' carpets, now, a
Bristle ain't a Kidderminster, neither is a Kidderminster
a Bristle, to put it reversely. A good
Kidderminster may be better nor a bad Bristle,
but it ain't my business to say so."

Very true, Gibbins. * Portrait of a gentleman '
is safe ; it doesn't rouse any angry feelings. If
you were to say more, you might meet with
opposition, eh ? "

Exactly. Folks has different tastes, sir."
Gibbins swelled with the magnitude of his topic.
What's this 'ere, now ? " he continued, grasping
the arm of his chair. " Me-ony, to be sure."
He lay back for a moment, gazing fixedly at
Arnold, as though to challenge contradiction.
Then he solemnly rose, and approached the
bureau, which was standing open as usual.
"And this 'ere other bit o' stuff" (striking it
with his hand) 'ain't me-ony at all, neither

ain't it walnut, nor deal, nor rosewood, but jest
simply oak. An' it don't make no difference
whether you says it's new or old, or whether you
likes it better or fuss for been' what it is, 'cos
oak it is, and will alius remain, so long as it 'old
together," and with that he clenched his fist, and
gave the cabinet another thump.

Hear, hear ; very forcibly put," cried Arnold,
feeling thankful that Gibbins had not selected
china, or any fragile substance, for his experiments.
" It won't hold together much longer,
though, if you go on banging it about with that
sledge-hammer of yours, my good friend," he
added.

The warning came too late, however ; for the
bailiff was already stooping over the flap of the
bureau, muttering to himself in a perturbed
manner.

"What, knocked a hinge off? Never mind;
we'll have the carpenter up to put it to rights,
if we can't manage it between us," and Arnold
looked over Gibbins' shoulder to see the extent
of the damage.

I dunno what's come to it," said Joshua ina
tone of rueful apology. '' A little knock like
that couldn't 'a busted it open, if it had been all
right afore, could it, sir ? "

No, my good man, I see what it is ; stand
out of the light." Arnold pushed back the

sliding panel, and groped within Yes,

there was something besides cobwebs. "Here's
another secret for you to keep, Gibbins ; what a
splendid amateur detective you are ! "

The treacherous spring had given again, and
allowed the light to stream into the aperture.
Wants something to hold it open," observed the
delighted bailiff ; *' I'll pop the poker in the crack
now, and go to find that'll do permanent, till we
can find out how it works. Lor, Mr. Arnold,
what a brighter side this 'ere is, to be sure ! "

Arnold cleared the recess of its contents, and
blew the dust ofi* them. There was a bundle of
old letters, a ring-case, and a piece of board, with
a sheet of paper fastened to it with drawing-pins.
He opened the case with trembling fingers. It
was as he expected ; there was nothing inside.
Of course not. His mother must have mislaid
it, — put it here for security, and forgotten it.
Probably she had never needed it, having always
worn the ring. Then after her death — what had
happened to it ? Where had it been ?

But now for the letters. They were those
which had passed between his father and mother
during their short engagement, and he read them
through with reverent care. He had often wondered
what sort of people his father and mother
had been. They both died when he was so young
that he retained only a very slight impression of

them personally, and remembered them chiefly
by things which were especially associated with
them. These newly-discovered letters, therefore,
made his mental picture of the writers much
clearer than it had ever been. They had not
lived to become old, — indeed, the possession of
their amorous confidences, together with portraits
representing them at about his own present age,
led him to think of them almost as absent contemporaries,
and rather as brother and sister than
as parents. It was a natural consequence of this
that he should fall to comparing his lot, so far as
it was known to him, with theirs. Apparently
there had been no obstacle to their union ; they
had met, loved, and married. The short romance
of their lives was of too subtle and delicate a
texture, to judge by their letters, for the hand-minor
of novelists and sensation-monsters. Had
they any aims which were not satisfied, which
it would have been worth living to see accomplished
? There was nothing to tell of any such.
Without doubt they had passed their days in
rest and quietness together. And then came
the greater tranquillity of death.

He whom the gods love dies young."

There is an alternative, however, which this

venerable saw leaves out of account. Some of

the scholars in life's great public school are,

indeed, born, as it were, into the sixth form, and

^ VOL. 111. C

removed to another sphere at an early age, when
they already know as much as the routine of
earth can ever teach them. But there are also
some lazy young truants whose obstinate perseverance
in lagging behind their fellows, and keeping
others back by their bad example, is so
incorrigible that the patience of the gods (or
schoolmasters, as they may be styled for the
purposes of the allegory) is worn out at last,
and they are deservedly expelled.

One of the letters was almost entirely about
the missing ring, and had evidently been written
by Arnold's father to accompany this first gift
to his betrothed. In it she was adjured to keep
the jewel, when not on her finger, along with his
letters to her; and her reply, dated on the day
which brought her the ring, contained her solemn
assurance that she would observe his request.
Allusions to the same subject were scattered
about their later correspondence, all pointing to
the unmistakable conclusion that the discovery
of the letters and minor-case together was no accident.
But the enigma as to what had become
of the contents of the case was more difficult to
solve than ever, now that the determination of
its owner to leave it with the letters at her death
could not be doubted.

Arnold was upon the point of giving it up
when his eyes fell upon the piece of board which

held the tell-tale fragment of Mr. Rock's rough
catalogue. He gazed at the writing for a moment,
and then, uttering an exclamation of surprise,
carried it to the window for more searching and
curious inspection. There was not the faintest
effort at disguise about it ; he recognized the
hand — half mercantile, half original — at once.
Strange ! But when it came to the stamped
address, why, that was even more startling.
This connexion between Hiram Rock and
the Tiiha Mirabilis was unexpected enough, but
how they had both got mixed up with his (Arnold
Robur's) private affairs seemed altogether inexplicable.
He loosened the pins, and removed the
paper from the board. The other side was a
blank.

Hallo, Gibbins, did you ever see this ? " he
called out excitedly, as the bailiff re-entered the
library, bringing with him a rudely improvised
contrivance for keeping open the sliding panel
in the bureau. ''He's axed me that afore,"
soliloquized Joshua ; "I know'd as how his
head wouldn't never be well ao^in."

However, he drew out his spectacles with no
less deliberation than before, and took in the
sheet of paper thoroughly, holding it at every
angle, and leaving no point of view untried.

I ain't seen that one, sir, but me and Mrs.
Marchpane burnt a lot of others like it," he

C 2

observed at length in an "annually decided
tone.

When ? where ? " asked Arnold eagerly.

Why, where else should it be but in herein
this very room, after them chaps as was here
cattle-oo^o^ino; the books had done sin' of it."

You mean Mr. Rock from Copesbury, don't
you ? There was no one else here, was there ? "

Not as I knows on," replied Gibbins with
stolid composure ; 'ceptin his own man as come
over to help him, and that burglar feller what
wasn't catched. I speck he must 'a bin loafin'
about a o^ood time somers where he got a stood
sight of our goings on. Leastways he couldn't
'a done the thing neater if he had known all the
ins and outs o' the place previous ; only he didn't
reckon as there wasn't nothing for him to take,
yer see."

It was not Joshua's fault if the topic of the
burglary was not familiar in all its details to his
gossips. Practice makes perfect, and stories —
even bare recitals of facts — are understood to
grow more effective with frequent telling. Every
time that Gibbins repeated the account of his
adventure he realized more fully than before
how capable of dramatic treatment were the
incidents of that nocturnal alarm in which he
himself had played so important a part. Unfortunately,
however, he did not begin to recognize

this fact till the novelty of the scene had somewhat
worn off. Even now, when he thought
that a really good chance of recounting the
matter from its earliest commencement had
arrived, he was cut short just as he was about
to launch forth in his most effective manner.

What was the name of Rock's assistant ? "
suddenly enquired Arnold.

"Well, sir, I don't rightly know," stammered
the bailiff, embarrassed at having to adjust his
thoughts to this abrupt change of subject.

Like as not I never heard his surname," he
went on after a provoking pause. " Leastways
I dis remembers it, if I did. But, now I comes
to recollect, I did happen to hear his master a
dressing' of him by his must name, Mr. Arnold,
which, as near as I kin sedge — my mem'ry not
been' so good as it was, and sevril things 'viii'
interviews, so to speak, to put it out o' my
'eat" — Here Mr. Gibbins began to waver,
and gave indications of being too confused to
proceed.

Was — " suggested Arnold with desperate
patience.

Ed'ard," ejaculated Joshua brightening, and
removing the traces of agitation from his brow
with a great sigh of relief.

Edward, hem." Arnold pondered.

CHAPTER II.

CROSS QUESTIONS AND CROOKED ANSWERS.

Would I were in an alehouse in London ! I woidd give all my
fame for a pot of ale and safety." — Henry V.

There was practically nothing further for
Arnold to settle with the bailiff, and that honest
philosopher was soon dismissed in a tolerably
cheerful frame of mind. At all times it is a
pleasant thing to have one's merits duly appreciated,
and Joshua now felt that Mrs. Marchpane's
bitter comment on the contents of his skull had
been more than compensated by the acknowledgement
of wisdom manifestly implied in the high-sounding
title his master had bestowed on him.
He smiled inwardly — for it must not be supposed
that the muscles of his countenance were
allowed to relax — as he marched forth ; his
thoughts, to use the phrase he would probably
have adopted to describe his feelings, were such
as ^' made his innards feel comfortable-like''
Presently he paused and addressed the empty
flower-beds.

Now, for why wur he so set again my say in'

it to her ? Why ? in course, because it wur too
good a name for her ! Bless you, she's sharp ;
but, been' a woman, don't know no better.
Wouldn't she jest ha' wondered if she'd heard !
Apy — apy— now what was it ? " he rubbed his
chin in meditation ; " apy — ah, that's it, sure
enough — apollo-gy fur common sense : " and
relapsing into silent self-gratulations the sage
went on his way rejoicing.

Meantime Arnold was less agreeably employed.
Here were new complications. It was clear
enough that Rock and his associate were to beheld
responsible for the actual removal of the
ring ; nor was there any longer room for doubt
that the farther attempt at robbery was to be
laid at their door. Then, the bookseller had
said not a word of bringing an assistant. Of
course that proved nothing ; but at least it
tallied with the theory of his guilt. Again, who
was this associate ? There were two clues only,
the tell-tale fragment of paper bearing the
stamp of the ofhce of the Titba and the name
Gibbins had caught and reported with so much
difficulty, " Edward." So far there did not
seem much help towards identifying the culprit.
Edwards are common enough," said Arnold to
the book-shelves, as he prepared to fill a pipe
which might assist him to a solution of the
problem.

Bat it only needed the audible pronunciation
of the words to set Arnold on the right track.
"Edward" seemed very little use; but " Edwards"
was strikingly suggestive, taken in conjunction
with that stamped paper.

He looked vicious enough for anything, with
his bis: beard," mused Arnold, '' and he would
have had no difficulty in coming down here if
he'd wanted to. It certainly looks uncommonly
suspicious. Someone from the Taha it must
have been ; and someone of sufficient importance
there to use paper with the office stamp on it.
That fits on to Edwards too."

Arnold had only once seen the man he
suspected, and now various circumstances of
that meeting, only half noticed at the time,
recurred to his mind. Edwards had seemed to
find his name familiar ; perhaps Rock and he
had already made their preliminary arrangements
then. Again, the newspaper diplomatist had
undoubtedly extracted from Robur a good deal
of information about himself. Everything seemed
to support the view which was now becoming
certainty in our hero's mind, though the evidence,
a piece of stamped paper and a half-remembered
name, was scarcely adequate for conviction by
a jury.

As to Rock's own guilt, on the other hand, the
evidence was much stronger. It was manifest

that the drawer containing the ring-case had
been opened while the cataloguing was going on ;
and, unless something had been appropriated,
so garrulous a gentleman as the bookseller of
Copesbury would certainly have mentioned the
incident to Gibbins ; yet Gibbins was apparently
wholly ignorant of the existence of this secret
drawer, nay, had been so struck by the discovery
that his habitual melancholy had been relieved
by a flash of satisfaction, and he had declared
that "here was a brighter side." Arnold chuckled
as he thought of the worthy bailiff's air and
voice. — Very well : Rock had stolen the ring ;
but that being granted, there appeared another
difficulty ; — how had Frank got hold of it "? He
must have had it from Rock or his colleague ;
but what connexion was there between these
three reprobates ? Frank's visits to Copesbury
had always been a source of mystery to his
family ; it made them none the less mysterious
that the bookseller had something to do with
them, as this ring business clearly showed that
he had.

It is curious to observe how often we arrive at
right conclusions from quite mistaken premises.
Given a problem, we may extract a correct
answer, and yet not have a sound line in the
process, as the schoolboy who cribs from a key,
but has to work out his sum by a method

entirely this own, very well knows. If our young
friends would only lay to heart the disastrous
consequences sometimes entailed by this way of
doing things, they would give up their bad
habits — or if moral considerations fail to influence
them, go the whole hog, and trust to physical
pressure to induce their smaller and sharper
fellows to let them crib the whole things. Verb urn
Sap. Eobur by a wholly erroneous process had
discovered the actual fact that Frank's Copes-bury
visits had terminated at Mr. Rock's miscellaneous
book-store. But the false step, the
assumption that his own ring which he had seen
on Ursula's finger had been placed there by
Frank, though it set him on a right track here,
had led him hopelessly and miserably astray on
a matter of far more vital importance. But the
immediate consequence was that he resolved to
interview Mr. Rock without delay.

Then, being in a restless frame of mind, he
determined to kill two birds with one stone, clear
out of Oakleigh bag and baggage, and escape
from the annoyances of the letters and enquiries
that were certain to pursue him from Burn port.
So he seized an opportunity when Mrs. Marchpane's
occupations would ensure her ignorance of
his proceedings, bade the bailiff make ready the
pony and trap, and in that worthy's company
departed to the station.

There Mr. Gibbins, with a parting injunction
to his master to 'rest upon him" during his
absence, left Arnold to follow his own inclinations,
and departed homewards in state.

Joshua's mind was of an order which was
strongly averse to hurry ; there was no proverb
more to his taste than " more haste less speed."
He seldom gave himself up to obstinate questionings
of sense and outward things ; unconscious
cerebration was his " lay " ; but just now he was a
little puzzled, and he did not like to own it even
to himself, for the confession would be degrading
to one of his superior talents ; but he would have
liked to know what Arnold meant by appearing
and vanishing again in this unexpected manner.
At the same time he felt that the question was
one about which a judicious philosopher should
not trouble himself.

Accordingly he assumed an air of Epicurean
indifference when he met Mrs. Marchpane that
evening at tea-time. The good housekeeper was
evidently in a state of perturbation, and was
eyeing him with extreme inquisitiveness. Certainly
the becoming thing, he felt, would be tolet
the lady take the lead in asking questions.
She did not keep him waiting long.

Joshua ! " she said.

Mrs. Marchpane, mum ? " he replied deferentially.


'' Did you see when Mr. Arnold left the
house ? "

Joshua leaned back calmly in his chair.
Well, mum, I repose I may say,' without coin'
a injury to no one, as I did so."

Did he go to the station ? "

Seems as I don't jest know if I ought er say,
seen Mr. Arnold hasn't left no 'count."

Mrs. Marchpane was upset by these subtle
replies. It was obvious that Joshua knew something,
but she suspected his silence of being
intended merely to enhance his own importance.

Come, Joshua," she said enticingly, " if the
master didn't tell you to hold your tongue, I'm
sure I don't see why you shouldn't answer a body.
Here's your tea."

The bailiff accepted the tea in silence, and
sipped it, but apparently found it too hot. He
prepared to follow the simple receipt, much in
vogue in humble society, for cooling it by
pouring it into his saucer.

'some more milk, Mr. Gibbins ? " said Mrs.
Marchpane.

Gibbins was mollified : partly by the housekeeper's
friendly attention to his wants, partly
by the polite title she employed to address him.

Thanked, mum, I will," he responded, avoiding
a pedantic regard for grammatical purism.
"And," he proceeded slowly, " I dunno as I see

no reason why I shouldn't tell you what I knows.
Mr. Arnold, he come to me about two o'clock,
and he says, ' Get the 'loss an' trap ready,' says
he. * Which loss ? ' says I, ' the grey ? ' ' That'll
do,' says he. ' Ain' your pardon, sir,' says T,
but I don't think as he will. You think he's all
right,' says I, ' but he ain't. That 'umbuggin'
'loss is wobbly on the 'rocks,' says I. ' Well, then,
bring the pony,' says he. ' Avery good, sir,' says
I. So I did, and we putt his luggage in the
shay, an' drum down to the station together.
Good-bye, Gibbins,' says he when we'd got
there. * Good-bye, sir,' says I, ' and, if 1 might
ax, where be you again' now ? ' ' Into the train,'
says he. ' Merry good,' says I, ' an' I 'opes there
won't be no accident, though it do seem as if
there wasn't no brighter side at times, barren'
a-discoverin' of that drawer,' says I ; ' an' while
you're away, rest upon me,' I says, an' so I left
him."

Mrs. Marchpane had listened to this recital
with certain signs of impatience. She seized her
opportunity to try and elicit farther information.

What station did he go to ? " she asked.

Gibbins accomplished the feat of putting himself
thoroughly outside a large mouthful of bread
and butter, and about half the contents of his
tea cup before making reply.

Station ? I didn't ax," he said, with no

more sign of excitement than Gallic is reported
to have displayed.

'you didn't find out? and Mr. Arnold gone
off without a word to any one, luggage and all,
and never left so much as an address ! What's
to be done with the letters, I should like to
know ? Joshua, I'm ashamed of you."

But these taunts did not touch the philosopher,
armed in the " hard wood and three-fold brass,"
as fourth form boys translate, of conscious merit.
Had Rock been only by to quote the names
of sages who suffered from the tongues (not
to mention the hands) of Xantippes, Mr. Gibbins
could but have been a trifle confirmed in a view
as to the comparative worth of Self and Womankind
which was already strongly established in
his own mind.

Joshua, then, received Mrs. Marchpane's reproaches
with bland imperturbability. He spoke
not, but consumed bread and butter ; cheerfully
and undemonstratively, perhaps, but effectively.
Throughout the meal Mrs. Marchpane launched
a series of hits at him, which dropped harmless.
But at last the " reticule " waxed too warm.
When Mrs. Marchpane hinted that if he had
treated Mr. Rock to such " stupid tongue kindness
" he must have been a dreary companion, he
nearly forgot himself.

Mrs. Marchpane, mum, if you had heard

them words as Mr. Arnold said to me in the
liberty yesterday, you wouldn't be a-callin' me in

such-wise. And as for Mr. Rock " Suddenly

the bailiff's face assumed an air of horror, and his
jaw dropped.

Excuse me, mum, but I've an idee," he
exclaimed, and precipitately fled.

You had better make the most of such a
rarity,'^ was Mrs. Marchpane's parting shot.

Had Mr. Rock been able to probe the thoughts
that were occupying the master of Oakleigh that
afternoon he would probably have felt uneasy.
But occultism, thought-reading, psychical research,
esoteric Buddhism, etc., were to him
but meet subjects for the levity of his irreverent
vein ; he had never even thought seriously about
an astral body ; and so he sat peacefully at
home, expectant of approaching storms ; his
head surrounded indeed by clouds, but only of
tobacco smoke. His mind was untroubled by
fears of detection. It had hardly occurred to
him that the fragment of catalogue might betray
him and his confederate ; had not Edwards told
him that the ring was comfortably out of the
way ? On this point then he felt safe ; Edwards,
he imagined, had his eye on both Eobur and
young Dalton at Burnport : and the only fear
that really disturbed him somewhat was that
Frank's attempt on x4.rnold might have been

discovered, and his own connexion with that
exceedingly ill-managed transaction be made
known ; but that he regarded as a most unlikely
contingency.

And so it was that when on this Friday afternoon
he heard a step in his shop, and descended
to find Arnold Robur awaiting him, he completely
mistook that gentleman's object in visiting
him, and greeted him with his usual urbanity,
though he was somewhat surprised at his presence
in that neighbourhood.

Ah ! Mr. Eobur," quoth he, bowing his unkempt
head, and " washing his hands with invisible
soap and imperceptible water," " glad to see you
again, sir. That is what I have always found in
the course of an experience which extends over
a very considerable number of years — though it
isn't years that make a man old — that when a
customer has once visited my emporium, he is
exceedingly likely to return. There are few
places to be found so fascinating to those who
know anything of books as an abode like mine.
There was the late Bishop of Copesbury now : a
most learned man, with a fine taste for poetry —
he once came in here by accident to get a fine
old edition of one of the Early Fathers he happened
to notice in my window ; and by the way,
sir, there are few prelates now-a-days who know
how to value such a book as that. Well, he

came in, and we had a talk, and I showed him a
passage in Augustine he told me he had been
looking' for a long; time and couldn't find : and
from that day he was always dropping in to see
if I hadn't any fine old vellum-backed editions
of Tertullian, and Origen, and other people of that
kind, such as would look well in a library. He
knew something about the insides of them too,
and he used to get quite melancholy now and
then over this lax and latitudinarian age, and its
ignorance of ail genuine theology. Our young
men now-a-days, sir, don't seem to care about
that sort of thing, and it don't pay to keep books
of the kind," said Mr. Rock, finishing up for
want of breath, and having also temporarily
exhausted his capacity for rapid and effective
invention.

Arnold had listened patiently to this long
address. He was not practised in diplomacy,
and felt very uncertain as to the best method of
conducting the business on hand : so he resolved
to let his companion talk while he made his
preparations for attack. Therefore he sat in
silence, confident that Mr. Rock's volubility had
only received a momentary check, and that he
would go on again directly ; merely picking up
a small edition of a classic that lay close beside
him. The action was quite sufficient to supply
the bookseller with a text for a fresh discourse.

VOL. III. D

There now," he exclaimed, " that's the sort
of thing people like now ; fancy editions — not
good old folios or quartos, with worm-eaten
backs and big letters inside withy^^ like f s ; such
as the Earl of Middling used to be so fond
of. Often and often he's said to me, for he was
fond of me in his way, ' Rock, my friend, it's a
sad thing, but these young fellows don't know a
good book when they see it. Look at that book
there now and he'd point to something two or
three hundred years old, ' that's worth all the
modern trash. Why, the engraving at the beginning
' — they all have wood-cuts at the beginning,
you knot, sir — ' the engraving at the beginning
would be cheap at a hundred pounds.
And now here we are, printing off books by the
million in type that's enough to blind a man in
six months,' " — there was no doubt that this was
true enough of the article Arnold held in his
hand, — " and then he would go off into raptures
over a picture of the Muses or Graces, or Lord
knows who. However, he always finished by
buying, which is more than most folks do. They
come in, with their * Good morning, Mr. Rock,'
and just look round, and pick up a book or two,
and turn over the pages, and say they'll look in
again another day, and then they go. Why, sir,
there was a gentleman came in here the other
day, and spent the best part of an hour among

my books. ' Got Corelli's Horace ? ' says lie after
a bit. ' Yes, sir,' said I, and found him a copy.
Turned it over a few minutes. ' Don't think I'll
take it this morning,' he says. ' Got Lucretius ? '
says he, after looking round again some while.
I forget whose Lucretius it was he wanted, but
I had a copy of it. Looked at that a long time.
Ah, well,' says he, putting it down, ' don't think
I'll take that either.' ' Found what you want,
sir ? ' said I, innocently. ' Yes,' said he, ' there
were some passages I wanted to compare, and
I've done it now.' ' Perhaps you'll use your own
books next time instead of mine,' said I. You
should have seen his face : he turned the colour
of a boiled lobster, and went out without a
word."

Mr. Rock began to suffer from exhaustion
about this time, and Arnold felt that his remarks
were not altogether free from monotony.

I think," he said, while his companion drew
breath, " that if you will continue your confidences
in a slightly more private place, it would perhaps
be as well. A stranger might come in, and we
should find that so disappointing. Besides, it
will be more suitable for business, when we do
arrive at that stage."

"Not come to purchase to-day, sir? Ah yes,
I quite understand. Follow me, sir, and we
shall be quite alone — far from the maddening

D 2

crowd's ignoble strife, as the poet says. This
way, sir," and Rock conducted his visitor to the
sanctum up-stairs.

Now that it had come to the point, Arnold
hardly knew how to begin. He wanted to convict
Rock of his offences and discover his accomplices.
Rock himself, on the other hand, was
certainly feeling nervous, though he attempted
to conceal the fact. Of course his fears might
be groundless, and Eobur's business of the
lucrative, not the annoying order. But this
request for privacy looked suspicious.

Arnold made the first move : tentatively, and
with the air of a man merely making a casual
enquiry.

Is the sale of secondhand books, varied by
intervals of cataloguinof the libraries of the aristocracy,
your only occupation in life, Mr. Rock ? "

What the dickens is he after ? " thought the
venerable bookseller. " Well, sir," he said aloud,
"business does take up most of my time. Recreation
is for the young, sir ; at my years we
become provident, and keep an eye to the main
chance. But I won't say that, if I had an offer
of lucrative employment of an intellectual character,
I oughtn't be inclined to give up my
library ; though there are advantages about my
present profession which would weigh pretty
heavily against making any change. Of course,

as to undertaking temporary work, that depends
on the season, and the cash. No doubt," said
the ancient one, '^ I should manage to enjoy life
under less favourable circumstances ; a philosopher
is always happy — but then there's no
denying that philosophy is easier to practise on
a comfortable income. That's what the Marquis
of Muddington thought. He was a great philosopher,
and wrote books about the Lord knows
what, and how the wise man was satisfied with
bread and cheese ; but when his son dropped
something like half a million in racine; debts his
language was simply awful. ' Why, father,
what's become of your philosophy ? ' says the
youngster, who was a good-tempered, hearty
sort of chap, and kept the tenth commandment
splendidly, — for you see there's no need to covet
your neighbours' goods if you can get them to
put their names to a bill. ^ Where's your philosophy,
dad ? ' says he. ' D — n philosophy,' says
the Marquis ; ' if the estate wasn't entailed, I'd
cut you off with a shilling.' ' Sorry to hear yoa
say that,' says the other ; ' haven't the books been
selling then ? ' There wasn't much love lost
between the two, though. But as I was saying,
there isn't much to be done besides selling my
books just now — which is more than the Marquis
ever did, by the way," said Mr. Rock with a
chuckle.

'' Ah, yes," said Arnold, who had seated himself,
and gazed contemplatively at his companion
during this oration : " I fear you misunderstand
me. I mean that I want to know what you have
on sale besides books."

'* On sale, sir ? Nothing else but some few newspapers,"
replied Kock, puzzled by Arnold's tone.

Really ? But you have some customers
whose tendencies are scarcely literary, who still
seem to have found your society as attractive as
the book-lovers."

You compliment me greatly, sir : I always
did fancy that versatility was one of my characteristics
; that was what the late Duke of
Ditching used to say to me. ' Rock, my boy,'
he would say"

The late Duke was no doubt a most affable
person, Mr. Rock ; and dispensed the favour of
his regard with surprising freedom for so staunch
a hater of the Democracy. But our present
business bias no connexion with him, as you are
probably aware. Kindly make an effort to keep
the conversation a trifle nearer home."

Rock was unaccustomed to this sort of treatment
: interruption did not suit him ; least of
all did he expect it from Arnold, whom he had
classified somewhat hurriedly as guileless — not
to say green. He was greatly put out, and it
took him some moments to recover the shock.

Arnold's confidence was increased, though he
had never felt much doubt. He resolved to
make a bold move, and risk the blunder.

I am hardly to blame for our taking so long
in coming to the point," he said ; " we have been
wandering round among the peerage a trifle too
long. I want an explanation of your connexion
with a gentleman who lives near me : you
understand ? "

Oh, Lord, it's coming," said Rock to himself;
"how on earth am I to get out of it? Well
try a facer. I've had nothing to do with Mr.
Dalton," he said, looking stolidly at Arnold.

Eobur smiled. " Thanks," he said. ^' Out of
thine own mouth, etcetera. How do you know I
was referring to Mr. Dalton ? "

The bookseller's countenance fell. He had
made an awful blunder, for which the confusion
into which he had been thrown by Arnold's
attack was responsible.

"Why — why — who else is there?" he stammered.


'•' That, my friend, is not the question. You
wouldn't have named Mr. Dalton, but for the
relation between you which is an established
certainty, — and was so before, though you have
now been good enough to confirm it. It is
really a pleasant surprise to find you so ready to
commit yourself."

Well then, I won't deny it, though the
young gentleman asked me to keep it quiet,
because he said the governor wouldn't like
it."

Possibly the governor wouldn't," said Arnold
dryly. " But our account isn't settled by your
little admission, Mr. Rock. However, it is sofar
a comfort to know that Mr. Frank Dal ton's
peculiarities of conduct are not altogether an
original growth. It would be interesting to
learn the precise proportion of his natural inclinations
to your external influence."

He's found out all about it," thought the
bookseller : " the young fool has been saying
that we egged him on to shoot : shouldn't
wonder if he had said he got the pistol from
me, confound him. And I don't see how to deny
all that Mack told him. We'll make an efibrt to
persuade this party that it was all his own idea,
and we tried to dissuade him."

He proceeded to address Robur apologetically,
summoning his invention into play again.

Well, it's hard on a man to have a young
fool's misdoings piled on his shoulders ; but it's
the way of the world. Why, even at school I
remember it was the same, and I used to get
licked for the other boys' mischief."

The slight smile of incredulity awakened on
Arnold's features by this statement was justifiable

; for Mr. Rock did not suggest one of those
characters who get all their neighbours' kicks,
and not even their own half-pence ; but it rather
irritated the bookseller.

"Why," he said, "you may laugh; but I've
been a victim all my life. And now in my old
age, to have it put down to me because Mr.
Frank Dalton goes about the country breaking
the law and playing the fool, — it's rather too
much of a good thing. Perhaps he's been
putting it down to Mack — I shouldn't wonder."

Arnold was certainly rather mystified by this
harangue. Was Rock trying to make him believe
that Frank was responsible for the robbery, and
was indeed the actual perpetrator ? No doubt
that was the original idea which Robur had had
in his mind before the fragment of catalogue
was discovered, but it was simply absurd to put
that interpretation on it now. Frank would
never have come over to Oakleigh while the
cataloguing was going on ; and even if he had,
Gibbins would inevitably have mentioned it.
On the other hand, the close of the bookseller's
speech sounded very like a confirmation of his
suspicions about Edwards, who had been called
Mack by Mr. Bloss, as he remembered. And
Edwards could hardly have been assisting at
Oakleigh in that mysterious manner without
some mischievous intent. No, Mr. Rock was

making a very futile move, if that was the aim
of his remarks.

You don't suppose," he said, " that I am
going to show you my hand, and tell you how
much I know. I will go so far as to say that I
hold the master cards, and it will take very good
play on your part and very bad play on mine for
you to win. I don't think folks will be wise who
lay on your success."

The interesting thing* about this discussion
was that the speakers were at cross purposes.
Rock thought only of Frank's shot at Arnold ;
Arnold had no suspicion of Rock's complicity in
that little business, having connected him with
Frank solely in the matter of the ring ; while
the other again, entirely ignorant of Arnold's
knowledge of the whereabouts of the ring, which
had never been in Frank's hands at all, had no
notion that the robbery was the subject which
was engrossing his interlocutor's attention ; and
naturally he was without the slightest conception
of the extent of Eobur's information.

Confound it, sir," he said dolorously, " the
boy must have been telling you a pack of lies.
I own that I knew something about it, and so
did Mack " (Rock had assumed, as he could
hardly help doing, that "Mack" and he had
alike been accused) ; " and perhaps some of the
stories he heard here, before he told us what he

meant to do, may have excited him a bit ; for
Mack's experience is wide, and he likes to talk
about the things he's seen, and never dreamed
the young ass would look at them in the light
he did : but we both told him he was a fool, and if
you'd heard the way I slated him when he told
me what he'd done, for I hadn't believed he
would really do it, you wouldn't talk to an old
man like me in the way you've been doing, sir ; "
and his voice dropped into a mournful whine,
while his attitude betokened limpness of an
exaggerated character.

Arnold rose and stood before the fire, with
his hands in his pockets, looking at Kock. NoW
when you argue it is no use for both parties to
stand up. You cannot dominate a man whose
head is on the same level as your own. If the
argument is of an exciting character, perhaps
the most effective plan is to lounge in a chair,
while your opponent stands up: there is an
air of easy mastery about this attitude which is
likely to throw him into confusion or else to
irritate him — both most desirable results, if
your object is simply to win. But if you. find
this arrangement impracticable, make him sit
down and stand up yourself; which, if once
you have made him nervous, is very nearly as
good. In short, as long as you are on the defensive,
you score by being casual ; but for hard

hitting, it pays better to assume the imperative
manner.

Our hero acted on this principle. He lounged,
and adopted a bland demeanour till he had made
quite sure of his man ; now he was going to
change his tactics.

Mr. Rock," he said, " you have now taken to
talking pure nonsense, which I assure you is not
of the slightest use. I am not going to discuss
how far it was you and how far it was our friend
from the Tala that was responsible for this affair ;
at any rate, your share is certain ; and between
you, in addition to your other pleasing displays
of character, you have managed to do Frank
Dalton a considerable amount of harm ; and you
will not be surprised to hear that a good deal of
annoyance has resulted to me. For reasons of
my own, you may be pleased to learn, I do not
mean to come down heavily on him : you
may be less pleased to learn that I do not
propose letting you off with equal ease. I
have not made up my mind what to do with
you yet ; but I warn you that you are under
my thumb. You are watched, so that escape
will be impossible, and any attempt in that
direction will remove all chance of gentler
treatment."

Arnold gazed down on the bookseller, who
throughout this speech was growing limper and

more limp in attitude, more puzzled and miserable
in expression.

I don't know how you found out that he
came from the Tuba,'^ he groaned, when Eobur
paused, " and I do think you're very hard on a
man just for talking to a fool of a boy who goes
and doesn't even know how to do a thing right
when he sets about it. There now, I tell you, it
was just nothing but some cock-and-bull story of
Edwards', — it's no use calling him Mack now,
since you know all about it, — of the way he'd
served somebody he had found to be an enemy.
Of course it was all invented, and he had never
shot him ; but it excited young Dalton, and off
he went and got a pistol ; and you know the
rest. But I swear we neither of us meant matters
to end as they did ; " which was true enough : Mr.
Rock had meant Arnold to receive his quietus.

Had the old gentleman been watching Arnold's
face instead of gazing miserably at his boots
while he made his confession, he might have
stopped half way. But he was labouring under
a complete delusion as to the whole drift of the
young man's words, and fancying his connexion
with Frank's escapade to be the subject under
discussion, he made up his mind that the best
way to get comparatively merciful treatment was
to make a clean breast of the whole concern.

But to Eobur his words were a revelation of

hitherto wholly unsuspected criminality. He
saw at once that Rock had misunderstood him
throughout the dialogue, and while his admission
of intimacy with Edwards left it beyond a doubt
that the newspaper diplomatist was most justly
suspected of partnership in the actual theft of
the ring, it was now also perfectly clear that
these companions in crime of one kind were
companions also in farther crime of an equally
serious character. There was a crumb of comfort
too in the thought that Frank Dalton's own
brain had not originated the idea of assassination :
while these two scoundrels, even if they had not,
as he was now strongly inclined to think, directly
instigated the attempt, had beyond question
known of it beforehand, and had yet made no
effort to frustrate it. Probably too, he thought,
the ring had been passed on to the unconscious
Frank in order to bring him under suspicion, on
the presumption that the relations of Arnold to
the family at Beau Sejour would prevent anything
in the shape of a legal scandal ; and he
could not help smiling at the thought of this
ingenious application to practical life of the
nursery game of " hunt the ring." He stood for
some moments in silent contemplation.

Rock, receiving no reply, looked up at him,
and was slightly encouraged by the amused
expression on his face.

I'm very sorry, sir," be ventured to say,
very sorry to see you marked like that. But
young Dalton was such a blamed young fool,
sir.

Arnold awoke from his reverie. " I really
think you're rights said he. " He was a blamed
young fool, as you say, to take to such guides,
philosophers, and friends as you and Edwards.
But a young fool doesn't hold a candle to an old
fool, when the latter is really bent upon showing
his weak points. You made a delightful slip
at the very beginning of our conversation, my
friend ; you made another when you named
Edwards ; but the very biggest slip of all was
that charmingly candid confession at the end. I
knew that you had some connexion with Dalton ;
but until the moment you were seized with such
deep contrition I had no notion of your share insetting
this cheerful scar on my forehead. Now
1 know that, in addition to the theft of my ring,
and farther happily unsuccessful attempts at
robbing me in conjunction with our common
friend Mack, or Edwards, or whatever other
name he goes by, of the Tub a, which theft was
practically proved before, though your remarks
have made it entirely instead of nearly certain ;
in addition to this, it is you I have to thank for
something like a month's ill-health, and a permanent
scar. Your 7idivete is touching ; so

touching that I will defer your punishment for a
few days. Good morning. By the way, you
seem to be suffering from these discoveries,—
what has become of your philosophy ? " and
with this parting shot Arnold departed.

Rock rose and watched him out of the door
with anguish on his brow. "Damn philosophy,"
he said, unconsciously quoting the reply of the
Marquis of Muddington, as he shook his fist at
the door.

Then, with perspiration on his forehead, he
dropped in an invertebrate heap on to a chair.

Devil take it ! " he said, and gasped : '' what
will my partner do to me for this ? "

CHAPTEE III.

SQUIRES AND DAMES.

For indeed I knew
Of no more subtle master under heaven
Than is the maiden passion for a maid,
Not only to keep down the base in man,
But teach high thought, and amiable words,
And courtliness, and the desire of fame.
And love of truth, and all that makes a man."

Idylls of the King.

The Daltonss' sojourn at Burnportwas a critical
epoch in Frank's life. It was a period of transition
for him from the lowest abyss of ineptitude
if there can be an abyss in anything so shallow
towards the higher level of sober mediocrity.
Ursula's society during the last week of the time
which he had the good fortune to spend within
easy reach of her could not fail to affect him
wholesomely, as soon as the first gush of exaggerated
despair lost its not unpleasing effervescence,
and grew stale and vapid. After all, he thought,
there really was no reason why he should give
up her company before he was obliged ; while

VOL. III. E

his present mournful seclusion, though it might
be dignified, was most assuredly becoming a
beastly bore." Besides, he had tried sulking in
her presence, and knew by sad experience that
this method was unlikely to occasion her the
acutest remorse : it would probably only have
the result of making her avoid him, a contingency
before which his hardihood completely broke
down. Frank was wise in his generation : if
one cannot secure the best, why should one
relinquish the second best ? he unconsciously
argued. He could not hope to marry Ursula,
but that did not prevent him from seeking to
cultivate her acquaintance. His very intention
made a perceptible difference in our juvenile
friend, and it is scarcely necessary to remark
that there could have been few chancres for the
worse in his case.

Not that his enchantress could at once transform
a brutish yokel into a high-souled cavalier.
Ignorant and clumsy young Dal ton still remained,
but there was something undeniably new in his
disposition.

Perhaps his chance of coming to such senses
as had not lapsed away from him through disuse
was not so bad as it might have been. No one
could accuse him, for instance, of being a modish
dilettante, nor was he a prey to the enervating
influence of certain modern developments of Art.

Not being a person for whom the niceties of
scholarship or the intricacies of versification had
ever possessed even a passing interest, he did
not forthwith set about composing a quantity of
dolefully self-conscious stanzas on such classical
themes as " Faithless Phyllis," or '' Lesbia's left
me in the lurch ; " by means of which pleasing
allegorical device the symmetrical throes of the
poet's voluble chagrin have received ere now no
inconsiderable relief.

Ursula on her way back from her drawing-class
one morning met her foiled admirer looking
strangely dishevelled, his garments and general
appearance giving indubitable proofs that he had
lately been through a good deal of physical
exertion. He raised a very battered hat, which
had completely lost its pristine elegance of outline,
to say nothing of hue, and panted awkwardly
enough, —

^' I've just — been — out — all night — in — a ,
— and — my hands — are all over tar
and stuff." Here he made a desperate attempt
to improve their condition by wiping them on
his yet more filthy trousers, the result being
such as to make him look more harassed and
ashamed of himself than ever.

Ursula was thoroughly surprised. She would
hardly have recognized him, he looked so — well,
almost honest and pleasant, in spite of his

E 2

"Adversity OF

unkempt and odoriferous condition. A happy
inspiration prompted her to be generous, and
not decline his fishy overtures. So with laudable
readiness she set about administering a little
friendly encouragement to the humbled youth.

You look quite famished, Mr. Dalton. What
an adventurous time you must have had. Weren't
you half perished with cold ? Let me walk back
with you ; I've been sitting still for hours ; and
I want to see Grace."

Never was sympathy better timed. Perhaps
Frank had never felt the need of it before.
Anyhow, the tiny spark of manliness in him
kindled at her words, and the kindly confidence
they implied. Certainly Ursula had something
of that " wonderful way " with her which is
traditionally associated with the name of Father
O'Flynn. The combined novelties of hunger
and unmixed sea-air had quickened the young
gentleman's perceptions.

It wasn't so very cold, Miss Lorton," he
replied gratefully, taking the outside of the path
by some docile instinct. " We had tarpaulins
and coats, and that sort of thing : besides, there
was plenty to do, and I managed to keep pretty
warm, and didn't feel a bit seas — queer, you
know."

There was a pathetic touch about the substitution
which more than atoned for its squeamishness.

Viewed as a sign that Frank was not
altogether without a germ of consideration for
other people's feelings, it sounded promising.

I dare say you'll find it has done you all the
good in the world when you are rested," said
Ursula, smiling ; '' I'm so glad you went."

It was worth risking a cold to hear this. ^'-I've
a good mind to go again to-night," cried Frank
stoutly.

No, no," laughed the girl ; " you've shown
you can do it, and that's enough, unless you can
really be of help. But tell me all about it, and
what you did and saw," she added with feminine
alertness, perceiving that he was only to be made
manageable by dint of careful discipline.

Then Frank broke out into a long ungrammatical
rio-marble detailing; the circumstances of
bis escapade, in the course of which he fell into
as many logical traps, and perpetrated as many
solecisms as would fill a small handbook, to say
nothing of a persistent tautology that made
Ursula's flesh creep, — if it is possible for a young
lady to experience so uncompromising a sensation.

Nevertheless she heard him with more pleasure
than annoyance ; and when at length he paused
for breath, she experienced a most unfeminine
inclination to slap him on the back.

Eeally I'm surprised Mrs. Dalton let you
go," she said, after complimenting him again

upon his performance ; and her voice rippled
with half-mischievous merriment.

'' I didn't tell her," said Frank ; " you won't
either, will you ? " he added in a tone of confiding
entreaty ; " 'cos there'd be no end of a row if
she found out, and I don't mean her to if I can
help it."

Can anything palliate Ursula's heedless impropriety
? She actually promised to aid and
abet him in this treacherous design.

D' you know, Miss Lorton, I want awfully to
ask your advice about something," was Frank's
next remark, uttered with husky desperation.

Can't you find someone better to advise
you '? " she asked a little anxiously, for lie could
not help fearing that he might be misguided
enough to repeat his flattering offer. " I'm not
sure of advising you right," she went on, " and
perhaps I should be unsympathetic, and say
something that would hurt your feelings."

Frank hung his head. He understood the
hint, — who can be quite bereft of insight when
he can admire ? — and he may have been conscious
that his feelings deserved to be hurt.

I — I — it has nothing to do with you. Miss
Lorton ; only I thought — "

Yes," responded Ursula, promptly coming to
his relief, " I should like to do anything for you
in a friendly way."

Thus encouraged, Frank proceeded at once to
put this case.

Suppose you had done something awfully
bad to a fellow, — a person, I mean, — and he
knew it, and just let you off without saying
anything about it ; at least, of course you couldn't
have done it, you know, but suppose I had''
He turned aside and gasped.

I suppose you mean a personal injury," said
Ursula quietly, ^' no matter what ; and the injured
person, discovering his injurer, — though he
knows how it all happened, and that the mischief
was not done unintentionally, or through an
accident, — hushes it up to screen the injurer,
and never betrays him to human justice."

Frank nodded ; it was all he could do. Something
of that dreadful faintness came over him
assail. He tottered to one of the covered seats
which was close by, and sat down. He knew it
must look strange ; but Ursula seated herself
beside him without a word.

^' Please don't mind," he said, as soon as he
could speak. "I'm so tired, and we can talk
better here. Yes, suppose he, — the person, you
know, — don't take any notice, and goes on the
same as before."

Ursula folded her arms firmly as she replied,
'' The injurer ought to go to him instantly, and
implore his forgiveness, besides begging him to

take the fullest reparation possible. No time
must be lost."

But suppose it has been lost."

So much the worse. Then the sooner the
wrong-doer confesses, and asks for forgiveness,
the better."

Won't writing do as well ? " moaned Frank.

Certainly not," said Ursula ; *' there is
nothing to be risked by it in this case, and it
would be more cowardly than doing nothing at
all."

Her companion hid his face. He was quivering
from head to foot. The girl turned pale ;
her sympathy made her dread vaguely some
terrible revelation. But she never wavered.
True to her sense of duty, her very womanliness
kept her from flinching. Bravely she
set her face to encounter the seductive weakness
which tempted her to spare him, and scorned
the momentary pleasantness of ruinous counsels.
No enemy is so bad as a false friend. So she
persevered with all the courage of her pure
motives.

How could any one go through life with the
thought of a wrong once committed, and never
even partially atoned for, weighing the heart
down ? Vain regret is worse than useless,
Frank ; it is a perpetual disease that slowly
eats away your happiness, making you infirm

and worn-out before your time. And yet its
attacks are never too violent to be borne without
flying to the only remedy that can be
trusted. For the remedy itself seems painful,
more painful, indeed, every time the sufferer
thinks of it, — and so it is put ofl", till in the end
the miserable man dies, and the rest is beyond
his power."

Ursula spoke slowly and considerately. The
words would not come all at once, and she was
anxious not to miss the mark either above or below.

The boy was gazing at her now spell-bound.

Yes, it is hard," she said, interpreting his
look ; " I too know something of its hardness.
No one is ready enough to confess his or her
faults, and sometimes I think I must be worse
than most people in that way."

Frank gave a gulp. " I'll do it," he exclaimed,
clenching a pair of greasy fists, " the very first
chance I get I'll do it. It makes it easier, somehow,
hearing you talk about it," he went on,
a faint flush of determination beo^inninor to
appear in his cheeks. " And then your saying
you've felt things like it, that helps a lot. Bat
oh, you can't know how dreadful it is to have
done what I mean."

At any rate," pleaded Ursula, " that ought to
make it easier to show your repentance. People
sometimes have to do things quite as unpleasant

without any stings of conscience to help them.
Surely your case is not so hard as theirs. Besides,
if you have been forgiven already in spite of your
silence, it is not very likely that any expression
of sorrow on your part will be harshly
rejected."

*' I don't know," he replied doubtfully.

They sat silent for an interval, watching the
sea as it surged and thundered upon the beach
below. A solitary sea-gull wheeled about in the
air above their heads, or descended to skim the
surface of the incoming tide. The wind blew
in keen gusts from the land, making the un-harvested
deep hoary with numberless streaks
of foam, as Father Neptune's locks will sometimes
turn to grey from hyacinthine in a single
night. From their sheltered position, however,
they were able to contemplate this cheerless
scene without actual discomfort, and remained
mute as two lovers for many minutes, oblivious
to the glances of the passers-by, who were to
be pardoned if they somewhat misjudged the
relation between the pair.

The prospect, combined with the not inharmonious
flow of her own thoughts, might
have continued to divert Ursula's attention from
all else, had not Frank, on whose raw fibre
tension of any sort was an unaccustomed strain,
opened his lips to repeat —

'' ril do it every bit just as you say, if only
you'll forgive me."

This was startling. " How am I to forgive
you when you have never done me any harm 1 "
she asked.

I can't explain it any better without telling
you all about it," said Frank disconsolately.
*' I never intended to do you any harm, as you
say, but I may have done so all the same, you
know, without meaning. But promise to forgive
me if things turn out like this, — for indeed I'd
have shot myself before injuring you, only I
didn't know it then, — and I'll go straight forever
afterwards, I swear I will."

Ursula was mystified. However, she was
anxious that Frank should not make her accessory
to his misdeed, whatever it was, — ashe
would infallibly have done if she had allowed
him to go on blurting out clumsy hints. She
did not want to know the facts of the case, and
he had already told her everything that was
material to it. The utmost she could do now,
therefore, was to give him the assurance for
which he asked ; and she did so, inwardly
pitying the confusion of his ideas, as it seemed
to her. Then she rose from the seat, and led
the way to the house where the Daltonss were
staying.

Only Mrs. Dalton was at home, and her son

found to his intense relief that she had but just
left her bed-room, as she was suffering that
morning from the interesting hallucination that
something was the matter with her. For this
reason, she sent word, she regretted that her
condition rendered her inaccessible to Miss
Lorton. Ursula was not sorry to part with her
worshipper, who slipped up-stairs stealthily to
change his raiment before foraging for victuals.

Nevertheless, as she walked away she was
filled with gladness that this chance of donna
real service for someone had not been missed.
The embarrassment of the interview being: over,
she could look back upon it with unmixed
satisfaction.

A few days back she would not have behaved
so feelingly. But she had begun to know trouble
on her own account, and thus she was prepared
to listen and advise more tenderly as well as
more judiciously when Frank sought to impart
his v/oes to her. She liked the boy for humbling
himself as he had done, and not nursing his
wounded dignity any longer. By taking this
step he occupied a better place in her estimation
than she had supposed to be possible. Why had
he not consulted Arnold Eobur while he was still
at Burnport ? Once or twice in the course of
their conversation she had thought of asking
Frank that question, but something prevented

her. That Robur was on very intimate terms
with two members at least of the Dalton family
there could be no doubt. He always behaved as
though he were Mr. Dalton's son and Grace's
eldest brother ; but Frank he seemed to make a
rule of avoiding, while no one ever got beyond a
w^aterish kind of acquaintance with Mrs. Dalton,
perhaps because there was no footing beyond
to get to. After all it was scarcely surprising
that Robur should feel little interest in such an
unlicked cub as Frank had hitherto been.

The invalid's sudden flight was more perplexing.
Aunt Joan had evidently been much worried
about it, though she tried to conceal the fact for
some unknown reason. Grace too was as much
in the dark as her friends, and could only tell
them that a letter had arrived from Oakleioh
which afforded practically no explanation of the
writer's strange conduct in going off without
saying good-bye to any of them. All that could
be gathered for certain was Arnold's intention
not to remain at home (so said Grace) ; he was
going away immediately to pay some visits, and
by this time all clue to his whereabouts had been
lost.

Grace, indeed, was more confounded than anyone,
except Miss Joanna, by the turn things had
taken. Being the only two persons who knew
anything about Arnold's hopes, they might have

derived mutual support in the emergency from
an exchange of confidence. But their eyes were
blinded, and, though they were neither of them
suspicious or distrustful by nature, there did not
seem to be any justification for either telling the
other what she knew. Grace, supposing the ring
which Ursula now wore to have been given to herby
Arnold, had been upon the point of congratulating
him on his success when his departure
destroyed this premature hypothesis. Speculate
as she might, however, she could not think of
any other to suit.

Ursula wore the ring upon the third finger of
the left hands on which particular digit such an
ornament became at once a highly suggestive
symbol, according to Grace's old-fashioned ideas.
Now it was impossible to suppose that Arnold
had a successful rival of whose very existence
they all were ignorant. If such was the case,
what could there be to prevent Miss Joanna
from informing her friends the Daltonss, especially
when she allowed her niece to wear
so conspicuous a token ? Upon these grounds
Grace's bewilderment was not unreasonable.
Had there been any valid excuse for absenting
himself under such peculiar circumstances, an
excuse not connected with this entanglement,
Arnold would surely not have neglected to
mention it in his letter. No ; whatever it was

that had driven him away, it was clearly something
not to be explained without taking them
all into his confidence ; and this conclusion landed
Grace back once more in her apparently hopeless
muddle.

As for Joanna, she was not one whit less badly
ofi" than the unknown sharer of her suspense.
Equally unable to imagine the cause of the young
man's defection, she was plagued by a suggestion
of her fears, a morbid fancy which she was
constantly endeavouring to stifle, that it had
something to do with the appearance of Ursula's
father upon the scene. It seemed to her an odd
coincidence that the two things should have
occurred so near together. And yet she could
not believe that her opinion of Arnold was
erroneous, or that any discovery of events relating
to her darling, over which the girl herself
could never have had the least control, would
make him draw back and renounce the love
which he professed to feel for her. No man
would choose an unconnected felon for a father-in-law
if he could help it ; but the moral characteristics
of the beloved one's family do not
usually enter into the calculations of any but the
most cautious lovers, — people who can only by a
wild stretch of lanofuaere be called lovers at all, —

&

^g'

and Arnold had seemed ardent enough. He had
deliberately tried to rouse the girl's susceptibility.

without considering the contingencies that mio^ht
arise, and about which Joanna had more than
once dropped guarded hints to him. To retrace
his steps at this juncture would be a piece of
despicable treachery, even supposing his progress
towards earning Ursula's affection to have been
small. He should have weighed the consequences
of his actions before, and arrived at an accurate
knowledge of his own mind then, if he ever
meant to do so.

But Joanna's heart was too warm and true to
harbour so evil a suspicion for more than the
passing moment. Besides, how could he know
anything about Lorton or his unsavoury antecedents
?

The supposition was manifestly improbable.
So she determined to wait a little longer, and
then write to Arnold for an explanation, if he
failed to offer one in the mean time. She refused
to allow herself to mistrust him, and tried
to cloak her anxieties under a moderately cheerful
demeanour.

There was another person, however, whose
concern in this affair was more immediate than
Grace and Aunt Joan could be expected to guess.
Frank was the less innocent than ignorant 
over which most of the remaining
actors in the little drama came to grief. Not
that he felt them tripping up against him, anymore

than they knew against whom or what they
were bruising their shins. Nor did he affect to
feel any particular surprise at the intelligence
that Arnold had gone back to Oakleigh beyond
what was conveyed in the terse commentary of
^' Doomed rum move" His was one of those careless,
trustful minds which forbear on principle,
or for lack of it, to enquire too closely into the
nature of things. So the matter did not weigh
long upon his spirits ; and as for considering
himself to be in the least responsible for Eobur's
freakish eccentricity, he did not so much as
trouble his head to think whether there was any
cause for it at all. Moreover, he had a large
repast of other mental food to assimilate and
digest just at present.

In the first place, the naked fact stared him
broadly in the face that he had not fascinated
Ursula as he had expected. This took him the
best part of a day — the day on which he found
ft out — to comprehend, and, as it were, masticate
thoroughly. That disposed of, reflections as to
whether his failure could by the remotest possibility
be attributable to his own fault, and not
to conscious demerit on her part, occupied all
his powers of analysis and casuistry till the
evening came when he met her again, with the
result of forming a shadowy impression that the
singularly ungraceful close of that negotiation

VOL. III. F

on the beach was not the only occasion in his
life when he had cut a rather sorry figure.

The impression thus formed showed a tendency
to solidify, which was fortunately confirmed by
an opportune talk with Grace, whose views on
the subject were of a more definite character
than his own. Perhaps the course of events
had sharpened his perceptions a little, for he
certainly gathered no very inaccurate notion of
Arnold's feelings towards Ursula from his sister's
remarks, while at the same time he recognized
that Grace had never been in love with him herself.
His crime was thus deprived of the only
pretext which could be urged for it ; and if it
was due to his moral instability that he committed
the act, hopes seemed to be held out
from the same quarter that his bitterness against
his enemy would not long outlive the excuse for
it. Without saying anything to Grace he resolved
to seek Ursula's advice, and abide by it. The
thought that he might have inflicted an injury
upon her through her lover did not strike him
till he was actually unburdening his soul to this
sweet confessor, when it had the wholesome effect
of deepening his contrition. His confusion made
him beg incoherently for her forgiveness, as
though she already knew Arnold's passion, and
reciprocated it. But prophetic utterances have
before now sounded incoherent to the hearers :

and Frank's words had a significance, though she
did not understand it.

At this stage of affairs who should present
himself at Burnport but Paston. He came one
Saturday to see a patient whom he had sent
down to the seaside for a change after a dangerous
illness, and having discharged his professional
duties repaired to the hotel at which Robur was
in the habit of staying to announce his intention
of remaining with his friend over the Sunday.
He had purposely abstained from writing beforehand
to warn the other of his visit, as he felt
certain of finding him still in the place, and
wanted to give him a surprise. He was, therefore,
considerably taken aback when he learnt
that the hotel authorities knew nothing of Mr.
Robur later than the fact that he paid his bill
and departed three days before.

Perhaps you know Mr. Dalton, sir," said the
landlord. For it was not one of those mighty
grand hostelries, which satisfy the requirements
at once of an increased population and an enlightened
taste, where the attendants preserve
an exterior as impassive and uninviting as the
stucco covering of its cheap brickwork. " 1
think Mr. Dalton is still staying at Burnport,
sir," said the landlord ; " but we'll soon see.
William, the Advertiser. Mr. Robur came to us
from them, you know, sir, and they can tell you

F 2

all about him. He said he should feel more at
home and independent here as soon as he was
able to look after himself without any help.
Ah, here you are now ; " and he pointed to the
Daltonss' address in the paper. " Mr. and Mrs.
Bolton, Miss Dalton, Mr. F. Ballon. It's close
by, sir. Turn to the left, and keep straight
on in front of the sea. Wish you good day,
sir.

Paston was received with open arms by all
the members of the family except Frank, and
was immediately asked for news about Arnold.
A smart fire of cross questions and answers
followed, the upshot being that each of the
party found that he or she knew as much about
the matter as the others, which amounted to
very little indeed. Whereupon, at Mr. Dalton's
suggestion, they were fain to partake heartily of
lunch ; for wonder is an exceedingly appetizing
emotion.

Paston soon began to find the society of the
old gentleman and his daughter so far from
distasteful that he did not resist with much
energy the pressure which they put upon him
to induce him not to hurry away from Burnport.
His anxiety about his absent friend was not to
be appeased by a fruitless expedition to Oakleigh.
One of the servants from Beau Sejour, sent over
only the day before to make enquiries, had found

Mrs. Marchpane in great grief because lier master
was again " a wanderer upon the face of the earth,"
as she Biblical expressed it. She did not even
know his address. He had taken the opportunity
to disappear while she was out ; and Gibbins,
who took him to the station, thought he was
going back to Purport, "and so between them
they've just managed to make one big mess of
the whole concern," concluded Mr. Dalton,
puckering up his eyebrows a good deal as he
replenished Paston's plate. His serenity was,
however, restored to some extent on Grace's
asking demurely whether he did not think that
a letter addressed to Cupar would have a good
chance of finding Arnold.

Grace could not help feeling drawn towards
Paston. The doctor was such a big, fatherly
person, and gave you the idea of being so much
older than he really was. tie was devoted to
his friend, and, like his friend, got on well with
Grace's father ; that was always a crucial test
with her of masculine worth.

Don't some friends of yours live here ? "
enquired Paston innocently, after some preliminary
conversation upon the beauties of the
neighbourhood. Grace and he were alone ; Mr.
Dalton was taking his nap, Mrs. Dalton her
*' Siesta," — a practice in which she was beginning
to follow Miss Hilda's lead, — while Frank

studiously kept out of the way for reasons of
his own.

You mean the Miss Blunsdens, and their
niece Ursula Lorton, I suppose. We'll go round
to tea there this afternoon, and take you with
us. Yes, they're great friends of ours, — and of
Arnold's too. Miss Joanna Blunsden is charming
; I expect you'll quite fall in love with her,
though she's not exactly young and lovely, you
know," and Grace took a bundle, wrapped
up in a voluminous silk handkerchief, out of a
work-basket by her side, and unrolled it.

Ah," ejaculated Paston quietly, pausing
afterwards, as if he were considering some
symptom before making up his mind what to
prescribe.

'* But that doesn't signify a bit," he went on,
referring to Grace's remark that personal charms
formed no part of Miss Joanna's attraction.
For instance, a man's own sisters may be
perfect sylphs and houris to behold, and yet he
may conceivably find their absence less irksome
than their presence. Of course he must be a
brute to do it," he added apologetically, " but
I mean such cases have been known."

People so seldom see anything in the members
of their own families," said Grace, taking some
work out of the bundle, and wrapping it up
again. " Brothers and sisters, I dare say, often

seem stupid and ugly, and altogether uninteresting
to each other, when strangers may think
quite differently about them."

The doctor smiled. " And, contrariwise, they
may be amiable enough in each other's sight,
but loathsome in everybody else's, I suppose,"
he rejoined. "My illustration was a bad one,
because I wasn't thinking of those miserable
beings who despise everything that they happen
to be familiar with, but of tolerably decent folks
whose sense of beauty is so mixed up with their
notion of what is good and right that they can't
separate the two things if they would."

"Well, I've heard Arnold declare that he's
seen Miss Joanna look positively beautiful sometimes,"
said Grace ; " I suppose that's something
like what you mean ; but I think it's going a
little far to talk so. People might not understand
you, and quiz."

Paston shrugged his broad shoulders. " Your
plea is not a very strong one, I think," he
replied straightforwardly. " The quicker generally
gives chances of having the tables turned
on him beautifully by a bold and wary quinze.
But perhaps I ought to consider the feelings
of others more than I do."

Oh, it isn't that," remarked Grace airily ;
"but I'm so terribly afraid of ridicule, you
know."

Could lie only have known that the failing
was one which she shared in common with the
profound Gibbins ! But this consolation was
denied to her, and Paston evinced scant sympathy
on this point.

I can admire indifference to all that kind
of thing in others," said Grace, pursuing the
subject ; '' but that doesn't seem to cure me a
bit. There's Ursula, now — Miss Lorton, she
doesn't care a rap. I don't know how it is, I'm
sure," and she held up her needle to thread it,
and gave a little sigh of vexation.

Paston, gazing at her as she was thus engaged,
felt that his principles were being severely tried
by their tete-astute. He struggled hard, but his
opponent's arts were too much for him, and he
was forced to give in. Even his voice mutinied :
he tried to assume sepulchral gruffness, and only
succeeded in emulating with a fidelity that
was almost eerie the blatant monotone of a
culpably innocent lambkin.

In spite of this mortifying vocal derangement,
however, the doctor managed to spend an exceedingly
pleasant afternoon, and was in no hurry
to change his quarters when Grace hurriedly
replaced her work in its basket, exclaiming that
they must not delay starting for East Else
another instant, or it would be too late.

Mr. Dalton was roused to accompany them,

and Paston soon found himself chatting pleasantly
with Aunt Joan, Miss Hilda having adroitly-secured
the only other available representative
of male humanity, while Grace talked in a low
tone to Ursula, who was presiding over the tea-table.


The only person who did not seem quite
happy was Mr. Dalton. Confabulations with
the excellent Mother Superior always set him
seething with irascibility, and on the present
occasion he remained in a cantankerous mood
for the whole of the ensuing evening. Paston,
on the other hand, congratulated himself upon
making; a friend. He remembered what Grace
had said about Eobur's enthusiasm for Joanna
Blunsden, and felt that he, at any rate, could
understand it.

CHAPTER IV.

''a gentleman to see you."

"That there is falsehood in his looks
I must and will deny :
They say their master is a knave ;
And sure they do not lie." — Burns.

There must be many happy people in this
niuch abused world who are not troubled with
any superfluous sense of the eternal fitness of
things. One hears a good deal about " bad
form " and " the correct thing " ; but the standard
to which those persons refer whose mouths
are full of such suggestions of refinement is nevertheless
a low one. It is quite a mistake to suppose
that even " society " people are horrified by
incongruity. What incongruities of taste, bearing,
dress, language, emotion, will they not generously
tolerate in themselves or their friends ?
In the food they eat, in the company they
keep (on alternate occasions), their freedom from
starched or pusillanimous notions of discrimination
is indeed remarkable. And if in the matter

of having orthodox opinions, — which is by no
means the same thing as acting up to them, — orin
the question of family alliances they do hold
the reins of their warm, thorough-bred natures
just a trifle firmly, are they not obliged by the
sacred duty of maintaining appearances to *' draw
the line somewhere " ? In small affairs they are
not so rigidly scrupulous. Returning once from
a London funeral of more than usual magnificence,
the mourning coaches happened to pass
Hyde Park corner. It was .the height of the
season, — not of funerals, for that goes on all the
year round, but of that curious combination of
preaching fanaticism and lounging indifference
which periodically makes this particular Park a
centre of attraction. The chief mourner was a
man of secluded and not unthrifty habits : the
manners and customs of the new generation were
unfamiliar to him, and in the ways of fashion he
was quite unversed.

Why shouldn't we take a ride round among
those carriages now we are here ? " he asked, to
the infinite consternation of his decorously woful
fellow-passengers ; and he was only hindered
by the exercise of muscular persuasion on their
part from putting his crape-bedizened visage out
of the window, in the absence of a check-string,
in order to communicate his wishes to the driver.

It was doubtless from some similar ignorance

or contempt of conventionality that Mr. Lorton
did not, as far as can be known, see any valid
objection in the fact that it was Sunday against
paying his second visife d^amitie at East Else on
the day after Paston's unexpected advent, which
has been already narrated.

The long-lost father had spent the days since
his rebuff in reconsidering with diligent thoroughness
the various circumstances of his friendless
and somewhat perilous condition.

To begin with, after brief cogitation, he cursed
himself roundly for having accepted defeat at
all, and consequently the terms dictated by his
opponent. Miss Joanna was a woman, and the
thought that he had allowed himself to be vanquished
by a member of the opposite sex made
his chivalrous nature burn to make effective reprisals
of any form or kind. He was glad of one
thing : he had got rid of a certain unlucky trifle
in a highly ingenious and advantageous manner.
Its possession had kept him constantly on the
rack of suspense ; but he no longer had any
reason to fear the animosity of its — well, of someone
who had parted with it in rather a queer
way ; and on that score at least he could breathe
freely.

But though by attentive and assiduous observation
he had been enabled to construct and carry
out a bold scheme for doing away with a great

source of anxiety, no sooner was this gone than
another and graver because more certain evil
confronted him. His wife had spoken out before
her death, and told Joanna Blunsden everything.
Oddly enough this contingency never occurred to
him till it was realized, and then it so upset his
presence of mind that he could see no way out
of the difficulty on the spur of the moment but
absolute submission.

He had never hated his wife while she was
alive as he hated her memory now. What business
had she to talk about his private affairs to
other people, whatever might be thought of her
absconding, he should like to know ? It couldn't
have mattered a bit to her when she was just
going to die ; and so she had been mean enough
to place him in an extremely awkward position
out of pure spite. Too bad ! And the worst of
it was that this was the last blow in the duel
between them, and he had no opportunity of
retaliation.

Stop a bit ! There was her daughter, — a fitting
scape-goat for the sins of the mother, that mother
to whom, as she was in her youth, the child presented
a strong likeness, though it was scarcely
so striking as the surviving parent, with fond
infatuation, had induced Joanna to suppose.

The humiliation of defeat was still rankling
in this amiable person's bosom when it received

fresh emphasis from the conviction that it had
been incurred quite unnecessarily, and was merely
due to an egregious blunder of his own. Farther
reflection, besides confirming him in this view of
the matter, convinced him that his mistake was
by no means irretrievable. Joanna Blunsden was
not invincible ; she had acknowledged as much
to his face ; and there was really nothing to prevent
him from stealing a march upon her one
vulnerable point, when he would hold the scales
as arbiter of the situation.

The girl — what was her name ? — Ursula knew
nothing of his misfortunes and early scrapes ;
that was evident, or her protectress would not
have exhibited so much excitement when he
offered to put himself in communication with his
daughter. Her determination had daunted him ;
but, after all, the strong-minded old lady's threats
were virtually impotent. Once let him disclose
himself to Ursula, and any attempt to damage
his interests would damage hers to at least an
equal extent. It was the winning card to play :
perhaps it was sheer boyish sentimentality not to
play it at once. Anyhow, he would give his
enemy one more chance : if she refused it, let her
take the consequences. Could he frighten the
girl into obeying him, he would summon her to
accompany him, and share his nomadic life ; not
that he was particularly desirous of her companionship

for its own sake, but because it would
inflict a lifelong sorrow upon " that officious
Blunsden woman," as he mentally described Aunt
Joan. Even in the event of this ambitious design
remaining unconsummated, Ursula would probably
feel the shock of meeting her father, and
learning his past career, with an emotion more
nearly related to terror than to joy. It would
pay him to foster that emotion. He would dwell
with cynical frankness on all the more repelling
details within his experience. To see his child
psha ! what meaningless words they were ! —
to see her child shudder and turn faint at his
tale was a luxury upon which he must feast his
eyes : the Blunsden woman would have to accede
to his proposals at a good round figure if he was
to forego this treat.

As to finding Ursula when he wanted her,
his mind was perfectly easy. During the short
armistice he had been on the alert bodily as well
as mentally, nor had he prowled about the neighbourhood
of the house on East Else, or attended
its occupants at a respectful distance in their
walks abroad for nothing. It was a regular little
household, and by dint of extreme circumspection,
aided by the judicious pumping of a youthful
hanger-on or factotum of Miss Blunsden's,
whom he waylaid and bribed with half-a-crown, he
soon knew all that was necessary for his purpose.

It was a lio^lit task for one accustomed to the
double-clealiriof of his fellow-men to manse all
this without rousing curiosity. Besides, he was
assured that Joanna Blunsden, lulled by a false
confidence in the potency of her weapons, would
not wake to the necessity of removing her charge
out of harm's reach till all such precautions
should be fruitless. A similar mine would be
laid under the daughter's feet to that which had
threatened to explode beneath the father for more
than half his life, and all who loved her would
be careful to avert the catastrophe which must
befall her concomitantly with his destruction.
Thus he might confidently expect not only to
have the satisfaction of snapping his fingers at
Miss Joanna, but also to see that lady actually
forced into active co-operation with Ursula to
screen him from the tardy approach of justice.

He was fully equipped, therefore, to reopen
the campaign when he made his second attack
upon the citadel that Sunday afternoon.

Before effecting an entrance, however, he
scanned the house-front with the practised self-possession
of one who was on terms of intimacy
with its internal arrangements. Glancing at
Miss Hilda's bedroom window, he was gratified to
observe that the blind was drawn down, thereby
signifying that the fair tenant of the chamber
was disposed neither to interrupt nor be interrupted

for the next hour and a half at least, that
being rather less than the time which must elapse
before tea would be sent up to the drawing-room,
unless something should occur to throw the household
economy out of gear. The window just above
that of Ursula's sitting-room — was shut, and
Lorton knew that the girl generally threw it open
when she went out. Probably she was up there
now ; at any rate he was sure that Miss Joanna
would find means of keeping her there out of
the way so long as her father remained in the
house.

The next step was final ; his boldness was
spiced with insolent exultation as he took it.
Enquiring for his unconscious foe by her full
name this time, he was admitted after a short
parley. By the singular luck which always
seemed to befriend him, he found her alone.
His calculation about Ursula had been correct,
then.

Joanna was startled ; she betrayed more alarm
at his appearance now than when he had
first announced his identity to her. But if
her emotions were strong her will was no
weak one. By the time that she had turned
round in her chair so as to face her visitor without
rising her mastery over herself was completely
re Drained.

If anyone else calls I don't want to be

VOL. III. G

disturbed while this while we are still

engaged here together," she said to the discreet
handmaid, as Lorton sat down composedly, and
they were left to themselves. It may have been
an old maid's prejudice, but she could not
degrade the title of gentleman by applying it to
him before a servant, who might understand
it literally.

Now, sir, no doubt you had a good reason
for breaking the terms of our compact without
consulting me in writing ; have the goodness to
lose no time in acquainting me with it."

She took off her spectacles, put them into
their case, and sat drumming it softly against
her knuckles, looking very watchfully on the
defensive.

The fact is. Miss Blunsden, I am discontented
with your terms," he began with suave
deliberation. " I must confess I was not attracted
when you originally proposed them — with some
assumption of authority, if you remember. Ah,
well," he continued, accepting the meaning conveyed
in her gesture of impatience, " those
conditions have not grown any lighter to my
mind during the interval in which I have been
trying to get used to them. Indeed, they seem
so much more onerous than I had anticipated that
really I cannot rest satisfied with them at all,
and I must beg you, my dear madam, to reconsider

your harsh — unintentionally so, no doubt,
but still somewhat harsh — decision."

In spite of the servility of his words, the tone
in which he preferred his request betrayed a
triumphant certainty that it would be granted.
His hearer's heart failed her as she listened.

You think you have discovered some means
of forcing me," she said incredulously.

The remark carried balm to her enemy's soul.
She gives splendid sport," he thought to himself
; " why, to look at her you would think she
was more impregnable than ever ! "

"Not at all," he sighed, and affected perplexity.
Then he added, " What makes you think
that ? "

I had occasion when I last spoke with you to
tell you not to fence with me," observed Joanna,
answering him but not his question; "perhaps
you will have the goodness not to do so
now."

It's hard to be forced to contradict a lady,"
said the other, simulating a mien of grovelling
dejection, " but I trust you will see the injustice
of your suspicion of me. Miss Blunsden, when I
say that I present myself here before you this
Sabbath afternoon solely to claim your compassion
for my childless and friendless state."

Another bad shot on his part. It was
the absent sister, the slumbering Hilda, whose

G 2

chair he was even now polluting with his
godless coat-tails, who wore her religion upon
her sleeve.

Joanna's reply pained him by its lack of
sympathy.

You have doubtless been to church once today,
Mr. Lorton ; " here she looked at her watch ;
'* perhaps you might like to go again : you will
be just in time for afternoon service at the parish
church if you bestir yourself. At any rate, I
have no wish to detain you," she added with
cruel coldness.

I regret to say that I cannot leave you without
an answer. Won't you think better of your
refusal to do something for me ? "

His audacity in again returning to the demand
for hush-money, after it had been so successfully
resisted, astounded her to a degree which made
it impossible for her to articulate a reply.

Because, if you don't see your way to doing
so," he went on, — and there was a malignant
nonchalance in his manner which would have
provoked any one strong enough for the purpose
to throw him out of the window without taking
the trouble to open it first, — " if you can't provide
me, in short, with a small but sufficient sum
of money down, pledging yourself to renew the
same at future periods to be agreed on between
ourselves, I fear the terms of our contract will

shortly be broken rather more seriously than they
have been by my coming here to-day."

He paused to observe the efFecfc of his words
upon Joanna. It was somewhat disappointing
to an eager, susceptible nature like his. Viewed
as a dramatic effort, his performance so far had
fallen extremely flat.

Plague take the woman, she doesn't know
when she's beaten ; but I'll punish her." His
soliloquy was cut short by the object of his silent
malediction.

I recommend you not to try me any more
with your changes of mind, Mr. Lorton," said she
sternly. " When I offer you peace once more,
and for the last time, on the old terms, you know
well enough that I am as lenient towards you as
it is possible for me to be. That is my ultimatum
; neglect it at your own risk. If you agree
to it you must never let me see you or hear of
you again. Leave Burnport within a week, or I
will have you watched."

Joanna's voice was as calm as it had been all
through the interview ; but her visitor could
guess from her quickened breathing how effectually
he had fanned her resentment against him
into a flame.

Dear me, that is extremely unfortunate," he
rejoined, showing his teeth in an ill-favoured
smile, " because I had hoped you would see things

in a different light after your first very natural
and candid expression of annoyance at finding I
was alive and, if not kicking, at any rate robust.
But has it ever struck you," he proceeded,
suddenly changing his manner to something
more aggressive, "did it never occur to you, my
excellent Miss Blunsden, that I might refuse
your ultimatum, as you call it, very much at
someone else's risk as well as at my own ? "

Joanna's hands were trembling. " What do
you mean ? " was all she could say.

*' Merely this, that if you put Scotland Yard
on my track, the blow you aim at me will
descend upon the girl too, as surely as though
she were standing in my shoes. Your ultimatum
has recoiled upon your own head, it
seems. I gave you your chance, and you refused
it. Very well ; within the next twenty-four
hours your precious darling shall know all about
me ; I have made up my mind, and you are
powerless to prevent it."

Never was transition more complete : had the
evidence of his innate brutality been stamped
upon his brow, the revelation could not have
been more unmistakable than his words and
bearing made it.

*now," said the bereaved parent with ironical
emphasis, at the same time making a feint of
picking his hat off the floor where he had placed

it, "there being nothing further to say, I suppose
it's not necessary for me to do violence
to my feelings as a man of honour by staying
any longer in a lady's house in defiance of her
wishes."

"Stay." Joanna motioned him to wait till she
could collect herself sufficiently to discuss the
question in the light of this new departure. The
mere novelty of the situation stunned her ; the
creature whom a moment ago she was spurning
under her feet was now actually placing the yoke
upon her own neck in the coolest way imaginable.

Presently, without heeding his taunts, she
spoke :

What must I do ? "

The hollowness of her voice proclaimed her
entire capitulation. Her victor swelled with
pride at having so skilfully crushed all the
resistance out of her. She was prepared to
sacrifice even principle for the girl's sake, then.
He chuckled under his breath.

I must say, Miss Blunsden, you expect a
good deal of me if you think I am going to
re-open the whole of this painful negotiation."

He found her suspense so extremely entertaining
that it was difficult to resist any opportunity
of prolonging it.

As she remained silent, however, and gave
no further sign of agitation, except what was

conveyed in her bent head and clasped hands,
he proceeded to observe, with a short laugh, —

*make it worth my while, and I'll never
trouble you any more."

Well," rejoined his fallen foe, raising her
head and regarding him steadfastly, "give me
time — a week,— and I will tell you the outside
sum which I can part with as the price of your
daughter's happiness."

Perhaps she was as unconscious as he of
the sting conveyed in those last words ;
but her composure simply baffled him. However
did sh'fe manage to rally in this marvellous
manner ?

Nothing could be lost by accepting her proposal,
however ; so he resolved to accede gracefully
to it, and stay all proceedings for the
present, or at least so to pretend, which would
do just as well.

Look here. Miss Blunsden, I'll return good
for evil," he remarked in a tone that struggled
hard to sound relenting, but only succeeded in
being slightly less rasping than before.

What did you offer to do for me ? Nothing
till you were obliged. Even now you re suspicious
of me. But I'll not be suspicious of you ;
I'll allow you what you've asked for, and you
needn't expect me again till this day week.
Mind you're ready with your answer then.

Should our little business fall through after
all, you know what to expect. Good afternoon,
my dear madam. Pray don't exert yourself to
ring ; I'd rather go unseen, if you've no objection.
No ? really very obliging of you."

After he had gone Joanna sat with her elbows
on the little table in front of her, resting her
head on her hands, while her eyes gazed vacantly
at the wall opposite. She had succumbed ; there
was no help for it. A less scrupulous person
in her position might have seized the time still
at command to put the police on Lorton's track.
If he were arrested within a week he would be
prevented from communicating with Ursula for
the next fifteen years or so. But then, supposing
he outlived his term of penal servitude,
an extremely probable contingency too — . No ;
even had the doctrine that all is fair in war
been acceptable to Joanna, it would simply bea
cowardly postponement of the difficulty to
apply it in the present case. Supposing her to
be capable of breaking faith with any one,
perfidious or not, was she to defer the blow
which must fall sooner or later, and which, if
it fell later, would in all likelihood spend its
accumulated force on the girl's head alone ?
The child must not be exposed to braving this
danger by herself: she should have at least
one poor, weak friend to bear it with her.

If only there was someone to talk to about
it," replied the poor woman ; " but Hilda is no
good, and Arnold has gone off no one knows
where ; it's a dreadful thing to carry all this
responsibility on a single pair of shoulders. —
Well, Mary, what is it ? " She broke off her
meditations as the door opened.

If you please, ma'am, there's a gentleman
down-stairs as would like to see you, and I told
him I thought you was engaged, but would he
wait a minute while I came and asked you, and
he said he would, so "

What, another gentleman ! " exclaimed Mary's
mistress.

Yes, ma'am ; Mr. Pas ton, ma'am ; he said — "

There, show him up," said Miss Joanna,
checking her maid's volubility ; and forthwith
up the doctor was shown.

He could not avoid vino; a slight start as he
shook hands with her, and observed the ashy
hue of her face, and its contracted appearance,
so different from the look which it had worn
on the previous day.

That look began, however, to return to some
extent while they talked, he starting with an
apology about calling again so soon.

But, indeed, I have only come just to say
good-bye," he concluded. " I dare say you have
had someone to entertain before me, so I will

not tire you further. Pray remember me to
Miss Blunsden and your niece, and let me look
forward to seeing you again when I next come to
Burnport, or you go to London."

Please don't go, Mr. Paston ; your visit does
not tire me, it is a godsend."

Thus adjured, Paston placed a chair oii the
other side of Joanna's table, and sat down
without a word.

You may have seen someone — a man —
leave the house as you came in," she went on.
He has only just left me ; once before he came,
and each time he has brought me dreadful news."

Ah ! " ejaculated the doctor, in a manner
which suggested that he had all along suspected
as much, and that he could even make a shrewd
guess at the nature of the news, if he was put
to it. After all, the use of this professional
monosyllable had become so habitual to him
that any person of average discernment would
have seen it at once to be purely involuntary,
a mere illustration of reflex action, like the *' If
you please, will you tell me the time ? " with
which town-bred youngsters never fail to victimize
the proud possessor of a watch.

I saw your friend, I think," said the doctor,
before Joanna could resume ; " but not outside.
He was down below, in your dining-room, when
1 came up. However, he may have gone now ;

I heard the front door shut almost immediately
after I came up-stairs."

His companion gave a suppressed cry of alarm.
Excuse me for a moment' she said ; " 1 must
go and see if he is still there' and she hurriedly
left the room.

Paston did not follow her. He wondered to
see her so distraught.

It must be something pretty bad to affecta
strong woman like her so much' he pondered.

In a minute or two Joanna returned, looking
intensely relieved.

He has gone' she said. '' Forgive me ; I
hardly know what I am doing ; I have no' one
to turn to. Mr. Paston, let me explain ; it is
too much for me to bear alone."

Hurriedly and disjointed she poured out the
whole story, while Paston listened in silence.
And now," she ended, " there is only a week,
one week, for my darling — and I can do nothing
nothing."

I suppose I am to understand that you have
told me all this under the seal of confession, as it
were, and merely in the hope that I may be able
to sug^o;est some honourable course which has not
already occurred to you ? "

He spoke slowly and feelingly : army attempt
to describe his sympathy for her would have
seemed almost sacrilegious. Inadequate words

do no good ; they only jar upon the mind.
Where the woe is real and pressing sympathy
has no time to invent phrases, and best expresses
itself indirectly.

Yes," and Joanna looked np again ; " you
must keep my secret safe, and not turn the
information I have given you against him. I
should not shrink from giving him up to justice
myself, if it were the only way. But I have
promised, and it is neither possible to place
Ursula beyond his reach without telling her
why, or to have him shut up before he can get
at her."

Paston hesitating, she continued self-reproachfully


It was thoughtless of me to burden you
hastily with this upon so slight an acquaintance.
I ought not to have done so ; but I am in such
straits, and some instinct — I couldn't help it —
guided me."

There was a tendency in her voice to become
wild ; but she quelled it with an effort.

"You were Arnold Robur's greatest friend, —
he has often spoken of you to me in this very
room, — so your name was familiar to me, and I
thought I might confide in you as I should have
done in him if he had been here, and come inopportunely,
as you did. We seemed to understand
each other yesterday so well, too ; and

when you came in to-day I welcomed you quite
as I would welcome an old friend. It is hard to
impose the duties of friendship upon you at such
an early stage ; I am afraid you must be thinking
very ill of me for doing so."

Miss Blunders' said the doctor gravely, '' I
am troubled, it is true, but not about trifles of
etiquette. What you have just said, however,
emboldens me to ask you a favour. You say
you would tell Kobur if he were in my place ;
will you let me tell him, on the same condition
of secrecy, if I see him before you do "? He would
be your natural confidant, and there is nothing
to be risked by letting him share our knowledge."

Yes," assented Joanna simply ; " I trust you
both implicitly."

Very well," returned Paston, shaking himself
as though he felt satisfied at having settled that
point ; " now let us look this thing in the face."
*- * * *

Meanwhile, what was the guileless object of
these machinations about ? He had parted from
his audacious opponent with such an elegant
display of courtesy as was a fitting termination
to their encounter. He was descending the
stairs with dignity, musing upon the gallantry
with which he had carried all before him,
while a pardonable exhilaration at his victory
warmed him just comfortably, when there came

the sound of a step outside the front door, followed
by a decided jerk of the bell-handle. He
quickened his pace in order that he might take
refuse in the dining-room from the observation
of strangers on either side of the door. The room
was empty, and in he slid just in time. A
moment later there were voices outside, and
then, before he could conceal himself, a man
stepped in from the hall.

If you'll wait there, sir, Til see whether Miss
Joanna is disengaged," said the maid from outside,
as she departed on her errand.

The pair in the dining-room faced each other
for little more than a second. Lorton turned his
back and walked to the window. Paston opened
his lips sufficiently to emit a very soft, almost
inaudible whistle, but did not stir from the
door-way.

^' Will you step this way, please, sir."

It was the maid ; she only came half-way
down, seeing him standing there, and he turned
round to follow her at once.

Can t be mistaken," he muttered ; " he's a
good deal altered about the lower part of his
face, — used to wear a thumping beard, — but I
should have known the fellow anywhere."

*' The fellow " remained by the window in a
state of manifest perturbation. This accidental
recognition by an old acquaintance seemed to

agitate him. He went out into the hall, opened
the front door, and shut it to again sharply.
Then he listened. Nothing happened. He went
back into the dining-room and deliberated with
himself. The doctor knew him, he was certain
of it ; and the doctor would tell his friends,
especially one friend, a friend whose existence
had been troublesome to Mr. Lorton, and might
under some circumstances become so again.
Truly the combination against him was more
formidable than he had supposed. The facts of
the case were altered since he made his compact
with the Blunsden woman a few minutes ago.
Did not the said alteration exonerate him from
observing it ? Why should he hesitate any longer
to take the step which was to secure his future
prosperity, whether they liked it or not ? He
would take that step. If they chose to combine
against him on the sly, that was their look-out ;
let them abide by the results of their perfidy.

He took off his shoes, and stole with them in
his hand cautiously out into the hall once more.
No one was about, and the door at the top of
the kitchen stairs was closed.

He crept stealthily up-stairs.

CHAPTEE V.

"honour thy FATHER."

I ? what I answered ? as I live,
I never fancied such a thing
As answer possible to give.

What says the body when they spring
Some monstrous torture-engine's whole
Strength on it ? No more says the soul."

R. Browning.

Morton had only just reached the landing above
the drawing-room when he was struck with sudden
alarm, for the door beneath opened, and a
hurried step passed down the stair. He stood
like a stone, making no sound, and breathed
freely again only when he heard Joanna return
to her visitor. '* Gad, what a shave ! " he
thought ; " that confounded woman would have
spoilt the whole game if she'd caught me in the
house again with the doctor about. She's infernally
suspicious." The victim of unkind thoughts
sighed to himself at the cold, calculating prudence
of a world too harsh for such guileless natures as

VOL. HI. H

his. Then he turned his attention to business.
Now that he was safe he might as well make sure
what he was soin; to do. If Ursula was like her
mother, he was likely to have an interesting little
scene.

He ascended to the next floor, where Ursula's
sitting-room was, and took his bearings. The
window looked out on the street, so there could
be no doubt as to the door. An unwonted feeling
of nervousness came over him — he might
find the business on hand a trifle ticklish. Never
mind ; it was well worth the risk, if it was only
for the score off" his enemy down-stairs. No ; he
wouldn't put on his boots. Doubtless it would be
better for some purposes, but this particular pair
were unluckily creaky, and Paston was downstairs
; it wouldn't do. " It's about as well that
other chap's eyes weren't as good as the doctor's,
blame him : the whole thing would have been
settled up long ago most uncomfortably. The
persistent way in which people badger a poor
devil is positively brutal," thought Mr. Lorton.

He went up to the door. Knock ? Politer, no
doubt, but not so effective. Surely a father
might come into his own daughter's boudoir
(pretty word, boudoir) without these extravagant
ceremonies. No, he wouldn't knock. He turned
the handle and opened the door.

Ursula was standing by the window, looking

out over the grey, foam-flecked sea, whose sullen
murmur was distinctly audible. She turned
round in some surprise as the door opened, for
she had heard no step outside. '' Well, aunt,"
she began with a smile — then she stopped suddenly,
startled and alarmed. Who was this ? She
knew the face well enough, but what business
had he here ? The blood rushed to her face as
she made a half-unconscious movement towards
the bell, and then paused again.

Lorton was gratified ; his dramatic instincts
found considerable food for enjoyment in the
situation. " A deuced pretty bit of flesh," he
thought: "promises sport." His teeth shoved
again in the same malignant smile.

Miss Lorton, I believe ? " he said with an air
of exaggerated politeness.

Ursula was both puzzled and alarmed, for she
had no clue whatever as to the meaning of this
man's presence. But she had no lack of courage.

I am Miss Lorton," she replied ; *' but I am
not accustomed to receiving visitors here." She
faced him boldly, but her voice trembled in spite
of her.

Very proper, very proper indeed ; I shouldn't
allow it myself," and he closed the door calmly.

I said that I do not receive visitors here.
What right have you to come ? Leave the room,
or I shall ring the bell."

H 2

Oh no ; pardon me, but that is one thing I
cannot possibly allow. It goes to my heart to
deny a pretty girl anything, you know, but ringing
the bell and leaving the room are just
two things that are at present quite out of the
question. Eeally, this is a very delightful little
room ; " and Lorton glanced round it with the
air of a connoisseur.

Ursula was helpless : a rapid movement on the
stranger's part had enabled him effectually to
cover the way either to the bell or the door.
Some girls might have screamed, and possibly
that would have been the best course under the
circumstances. But it was some fifteen years
since Ursula had tried it, and it did not occur
to her as the thing to do now. So she stood
silent, with her hand on the back of a chair,
watching.

The other was in no hurry. Paternal fondness
was not one of his prominent characteristics.
Of course Ursula was his child ; but that only
affected him from the pecuniary point of view.
He regarded her as a valuable piece of goods
just discovered, for whom her protectress might
give him money down, and who, failing that,
would be a useful addition to his household.
There was no doubt that he would make her
pay. But as for sparing her because she was his
daughter, that would be contemptible weakness

to which no sane man would ever descend. And
pity was the last thing her beauty suggested to
him ; on the contrary, it greatly heightened the
enjoyment of the position. Lorton was a man of
pretty taste ; when he had got hold of a victim,
the lovelier she was the better. The pious souls
of the Roman populace under the emperors, or
the spectators of an auto-da-fe in the days of the
Inquisition, were never quite satisfied by withered
matrons or bearded blasphemers : it was the young
and lovely virgins whom they really enjoyed seeing
in the arena or at the stake. Lorton was
thoroughly in sympathy with these worthies, and
had no intention of unnecessarily shortening the
little drama. Even if the " Blunsden woman's"
sufferings in prospect had not stirred him, he
would have felt that an hour spent here would
be well repaid.

Your own drawings % " he enquired blandly.
Hem. Deficient perhaps in maturity of handling,
but promising. You will doubtless improve.
Literature — doesn't seem altogether becoming
to a young lady. Dante — Goethe — a
German scholar ! that is charming ; a most
useful language, but not a patch on French.
Learned doubtless from the Blunsden — what's
her name — Joanna." Ursula Quivered : Lorton
smiled again. " Well," he went on, " haven't you
anything to say?" She was silent. *' Temper.

Ah ! a sad thing ; so troublesome. My clear, you
must learn to curb your angry passions."

This is too much ! " exclaimed Ursula : '•' let
me go. How dare you speak to me in this
manner ? " She tried to pass him, but he caught
her by the wrist.

Gently, gently. Excitement brings a charming
colour to your cheeks ; and your eyes — by
Jove, they're splendid. But it's bad for you ;
brings on palpitation, you know."

Who are you ? '^ said Ursula panting, her
eyes blazing with wrath. He looked at her with
admiration as she faced him.

First-rate : we'll have you on the stage yet.
Never thought of that before ; " and he scanned
her with a critical leer.

Who are you ? " she said again, her breast
heaving.

Business-like too — another excellent quality,
not, I regret to say, derived from your mother.
Your useful traits are developing charmingly.
Who am I ? " — he let go of her wrist — "my dear
Ursula, I am your long-absent but fond papa."

Did you ever receive suddenly and unexpectedly
a blinding blow between the eyes ? That
is something like the feeling which Ursula now
experienced. She turned dizzy, and only saved
herself from falling to the floor by catching hold
of a chair, and so dropped on to a sofa, her eyes

fixed for the first time in real terror on her tormentor.
The mockery in his words was lost on
her — the blow was too tremendous. She trembled
in every limb.

Lorton paused. Not that any thought of
mercy entered into him ; but he had hardly
counted on the full effect of his words, and fora
moment he was almost frightened by her pallor.
So he held his peace to give her time to recover.
She was a stout-hearted girl, however, and soon
rallied ; the look of terror gave place to one of
suffering endurance. The father found a deep
satisfaction in his daughter's pluck ; besides, he
had not half done with her. He had no mind
to miss a single torture which might be inflicted
with tolerable safety. He was an epicure who
liked to try the flavour of every dish.

"Well," he said, "this is gratifying. I always
expected my return to be hailed with passionate
outpourings of delight ; but I don't think I ever
reckoned on such a display of emotion as this.
But you haven't said how glad you are to see me
yet." He could see how she was suffering and he
felt an infernal delight in her pain. Poor girl,
she was perfectly helpless before him. She never
dreamed of doubting the truth of his words ;
how could she resist him ?

I fear," he went on, letting his hard eyes
rest on her face with an enjoyment partly

aesthetic, partly bloodthirsty, ^' you are scarcely
the sort of girl that it gives a yearning parent
complete satisfaction to find. The prodigal son,
if I remember rightly, was received with open
arms and a good dinner by his affectionate
father ; but the returning father is not, as far as
I can see, going to be greeted with fatted calves,
to say nothing of embraces." He seated himself
coolly beside her, but she shrank from him.

By the Lord," he said emphatically, " you
are a handsome girl," and he ratified his criticism
with another oath. " You shall go on the stage :
you'd make a fortune there. With that face and
figure you would be the rage in a week. There
wouldn't be a dry eye in the house if you acted
on the boards as you're doing now. That look
you gave me just now would carry the newspapers
by storm, and we'd give you an extra special
puff all to yourself in the Tuba. We will, by
Jupiter ! " The man was appraising the poor girl's
market value as if she had been a bale of indigo.

Well, what have you to say to me now ? "

I have nothing to say," answered Ursula ina
low voice that sounded in her own ears as if
it belonged to someone else. " I have nothings
to say." She did not move. Her hands were
clasped together — Lorton could see how tightly.

'* What ! you aren't going to welcome your
dad % "

Ursula's only answer was a look — a look of
appealing agony, which would have gone to the
heart of any less hardened blackguard than her
own father ; but he was delighted by it.

Ophelia, by Jove ! No, Desdemona would be
better still : and, by gad, I'll try the part of ago
myself. I always had a hankering to see what
I could do with ago. Well, that remains for
the future. Meantime, what do you suppose you
are going to do ? "

Father," she said — " you say you are my
father ; have some pity on me, and leave me —
leave me to myself." Her voice broke so that
the last words were barely audible.

Lorton rose. There was no fear of her trying
to escape him. The bird was in the snare now ;
she might beat her wings as she liked, but she
was fast. He walked to the window and looked
out. There were few people in the streets ;
church not over yet. There was plenty of time.

He turned towards Ursula. She had not
moved, except that she had turned her face with
its pleading eyes to watch him.

Come," he said, " a cat may look at a king,
but that's no reason why you should keep staring
at me. I guess you'll recognize your father next
time he has the honour of meeting you. That's
just the way of glaring at a fellow your mother
used to have." The man actually spoke as if he

was deeply aggrieved by the unjustifiable conduct
of those who were nearest to him — and
should have been dearest.

Ursula tried to turn her eyes aside but could
not, the fascination was too strong. At the
mention of her mother she trembled, and grew
even whiter than she was before.

Frightened, are you ? No doubt ; you have
no one to help you now that young fool Robur's
gone."

If she was white before she became crimson
now. The hot blood surged up at Arnold's name
till neck and cheek and brow were all aglow.
Convulsively she tightened the clasp of her
hands, and a low moan broke from her.

He paused to extract full and exquisite enjoyment
from the spectacle. He felt that he was
paying off vast arrears of debt to his dead wife
in the person of the daughter who was so like
her. Backs and stakes and thumb screws belonged
to a merely barbarous age ; folks who believed
in them knew nothing of scientific torture : they
had no delicacy or refinement. But then it is
no doubt true that few persons are so favoured
by fortune as to find a victim as perfect as
Ursula.

You get more like your mother every
moment," he went on ; " and I've a notion you
have her temper too. Most handsome girls have

a devil in them, I've noticed ; and the worst I
ever knew was Mary."

Ursula was roused again. Lorton was not
always a successful diplomatist : the other day
he had suffered a crushing defeat at Joanna
Blunsden's hands ; but in the devices of downright
cruelty he was an adept. Besides, he had
his experience of his own wife's character to
guide him now ; and it would never do simply
to crush the girl. The victims of the '' punishment
jacket " in Charles Reade's novel were
periodically revived by a pailful of cold water ;
Lorton's method was more artistic, and it was
no less successful.

She spoke again, and her voice had become
hard and stern ; the pleading tone had gone out
of it.

'' You have not spared me, and I have borne
your cruel words. But I will not bear to hear
you abuse my mother. You know how you
treated her when she lived : beware how you
slander her in her grave."

Very pretty and melodramatic ; but even
my consideration for my daughter's feelings will
not justify me in falsifying the facts, you know.
That would be immoral. Of course I should
like to be able to tell you that your dear mother
was the angel you doubtless fancy her ; but I
greatly regret that I feel bound to say she had

a devil of a temper. Now don't say you won't
bear it," — Ursula opened her lips to speak, —
because you can't help yourself. You've got
to bear it, whether you like it or not. It is
becoming in you to doubt the assertion, but you
don't seem troubled with scruples as to believing
all you hear about your father."

Seeing that she made no attempt to answer
he went on, after satins himself in a chair
opposite her, close to the fire.

"You don't seem interested in your loving
father now that you have found him again — or
perhaps I should say now that he has found you.
You evince no passionate yearning to learn how
he has spent the last twenty years or so. Apparently
it makes no difference to you whether he
has been passing the time in wealth and comfort,
or poverty with cold mutton for dinner. But I
think it would be good for you to hear a little
about it ; and in fact I don't mind going back
earlier.

There was a little accident some three-and-twenty
years ago — we needn't go into details —
which made me think that a change of air would
suit my constitution, and I left my native heath,
not without some small lingering regrets. By a
singular coincidence, another little accident only
a few months later induced your mother to try
a change of air too ; and strangely enough, she

selected the same salubrious climate I had chosen.
A farther remarkable chain of events resulted in
our meeting ; and as a gentleman of refined
education was almost as great a rarity out there
as a lady whose only qualifications for society
were a handsome face and a tolerable acquaintance
with literature on the top of the ordinary
accomplishments, we naturally foregathered, and
entered into a contract for our mutual convenience.
Of course we talked a lot about love and
that sort of trash ; but that is about as genuine
in the antipodes' as it is in England. Would
you believe," said Mr. Lorton, stirring the fire
meditatively, '' would you believe that she actually
tried to carry on the same nonsense after we
were spliced ? I pointed out to her that marriage
was simply a business transaction ; a handsome
girl is a very useful partner in some professions,
and if I kept her from starving, which she would
infallibly have done but for me, hang it, she
ought to have been grateful. She objected to
my companions ; she objected to swearing ; she
objected to assisting in the intoxication of my
friends. By the Lord ! I never saw such a d — d
cantankerous woman." He looked maliciously
towards Ursula to see how she took this hit ;
but her lips only tightened a little. " Game, by
Jove ! " he thought ; " never had such sport in
my life. The Blunsden is too old and tough

for the real thing; but, by gad, the girl's
splendid."

Excuse me ; but you know these reminiscences
are highly interesting to me, and ought
to be so to you, because I fancy you appeared
on the scenes pretty soon after. And, upon my
soul, you didn't improve matters. There's a
devil in most babies that sets them howling and
squalling when they're not wanted, and I should
think there never was a devil so cursedly noisy
as yours. Changed his ways now, and don't
seem to set you screaming like some others, but
I guess he's there still. Got sulky, I suppose.
Well, as I was saying, you didn't improve
matters. You squalled, and the wife seemed to
forget that she had a husband to look after, to
love and to cherish, as the prayer-book says, — oh,
I haven't forgotten that, I assure you, — to say
nothing of obeying." (It seems to have escaped
Mr. Lorton's memory that the husband also
undertakes to love and to cherish his wife ; the
reciprocal character of the transaction was not a
subject on which he suffered his mind to dwell
with any force.) *' And what was worse, as if a
squalling kid wasn't enough, she took to crying
herself. I might as well have married the
Trafalgar Square fountain — better, because that
generally doesn't work. Well, I did my little
best to improve her. Such powers of persuasion

as Providence thought fit to bestow on me I
exerted on her. I exhausted my vocabulary for
her benefit on an average, I should say, three
times a day. But she only got worse, and at
last she hooked it. Sweet wifelike conduct to
desert one's husband, I call it. And now, by
Jove, what did she do by way of compensation ?
Gave her daughter her own cursed temper, and
taught her to hate her father seemingly," and
Mr. Lorton's countenance assumed an expression
of disgust at the wicked ways of woman.

Pale and dry-eyed, Ursula sat and heard him.
Do what she would, she winced terribly under
his words, and now and then she could not but
show it. The soul of the affectionate husband
and parent thrilled with a keen delight as he
saw his victim quiver beneath his merciless
stabs.

Perhaps you feel a trifle less proud of your
mother now ; — by the way, you may learn from
my veracious narrative to curb your angry
passions, and behave a little better than she did.
But you shall feel prouder of your father before
you've done. You would like to hear how I've
prospered since ? A deal better than before, I
assure you. I thought I had got a help-meet,
and I found I had got nothing but a clog, two
clogs when you were born ; and, by Jove, I was
thankful to be rid of you both. As for my way

of getting my living, that's neither here nor
there. IVe tried a good lot in my time, from
thimble-rigmno* and billiard-markings to newspaper
work. Gambling is good, because if the
cards don't come right of themselves a skilful
player can make them. But that's risky. I
was caught once, and if I hadn't shot the other
chap first and sworn he was cheating — that
happened in Texas — I guess I should have been
off the hooks by now. But I left Texas. There
are too many flies there. Oh, I've kept myself
pretty comfortable ; you needn't be troubled on
that score. But you see I want to be comfortable
at the expense of less exertion. I want
some peace and quietness, and I want some
money. But we haven't come to that stage yet ;
I want you to hear a trifle more first.

I came back to England after that little
affair in Texas, and I've tried round a good
many professions. Perhaps the most uncomfortable
experience I ever had was at Epsom. It's
not a pleasant sensation to hear a weltering mob
yelling ' Welch er,' and I really think I had a
closer scrape that time than even in Texas ; but
I got off. Then I got on the Tuba business, and
that certainly has its merits. Diplomatic finesse
was always my strong point, and it has free play
there. There is something so thoroughly satisfactory
about turning a man round one's little

finger, or, better still, getting him under your
thumb, and letting him know that your thumb
is only waiting till his use is over to flatten him ;
it is really a delicious sensation : I do enjoy
seeing a man squirm. But dear me, how I
digress ! " (Lorton considered he was safe so
long as Joanna was engaged with the doctor.)
That isn't at all what I meant to say. I was
down at Brighton a few weeks ago, and circumstances
made it convenient for me to visit a
certain churchyard there. I was not, I own,
wildly surprised to see your mother's gravestone
there — a temper like hers would wear any one
out before long."

Ursula's eyes flashed again, roused by the
utter heartlessness of his words.

There now, take care, or you'll be following
her example, and the English stage will lose the
charming young lady who is destined to be its
brightest ornament. As I was going to say,
that was the first news I had of your mother's
death. I don't know that I dropped a tear on
the grave ; but the knowledge simplified matters
a bit. Well then, other circumstances brought
me here — business in connection with a young
gentleman who didn't know me, but who does
know you. When I saw him walking with a
girl I was interested ; but, by Jupiter, when I
saw the girl's face I was — well, you might have

VOL. III.

knocked me down with a feather. I should
hardly have known you from your mother a
little before I married her. So I knew you must
be my long-lost and yearned-for child ; and of
course, when I heard that your name was Ursula
Lorton, why that settled the question.

And now we come to something I was talking
about just now. Having found you — well,
I don't mean my discovery to go for nothing. I
want money ; do you understand ? Money."

He leaned back in his chair and looked at
Ursula, expecting a response.

Why do you say this to me ? " she answered
wearily, with a hopeless ring in her voice ; " why
have you come here to tell me this ? You want
money, you say ; but I have none."

True, my child. You at present have none,
being up to the present time merely the recipient
of Miss Blunsden's bounty — no better than a
charity girl. But then, I must have money, and
you must see that I get it."

What do you mean ? How can I get you
money ? "

My good girl, that is a question that shouldn't
puzzle a babe. How are you to get it ? Don't
you know the Blunsden woman down-stairs would
do anything for you '? "

Lorton knew how to torture his daughter ; but
he had not the dimmest conception of how to

manage her. He fancied that she was utterly
crushed, and he could do what he liked with her.
To his regret and surprise, he found this impression
entirely mistaken. Instead of unresisting
acquiescence, he was met by an outburst
of indignation.

Do you dare to ask me to go to Miss Blunder
and beg ? to show my gratitude for all her
goodness and kindness to me and my mother —
the mother who met with little enough kindness
from you — by robbing her of her little store to
keep you at your ease ? I will not." Ursula
had risen, and stood face to face with her parent,
her eyes flashing, her whole form quivering with
indignation. The scorn in her voice was scathing.

Lorton was taken aback. His experience had
not taught him to understand what a true woman
may bear. The girl had allowed him to set
before her the revolting picture of his own life,
to brand the sense of his infamy, her father s
infamy, upon her heart. She had listened and
endured this suffering as only a woman would,
with scarcely a word, without a tear. And he
thought she was crushed therefore I Had the
pain indeed been less terrible, she might no
doubt have found relief in tears, and he was
right in taking her silence as the strongest proof
of her anguish ; but he was hopelessly astray if
he thought Ursula's spirit might be so broken.

I 2

He did not know what to make of this reception
of his proposal. He resolved to try bullying.

Come, drop that," he said. " Don't try to
come over me with your tragedy airs. They're
very fine and high-sounding, and very pretty on
paper or on the boards ; but they won't do here.
Do as I tell you, or it will be the worse for you."
But Ursula was not to be brow-beaten. She
had forgotten her pain in her indignation.

'you cannot frighten me," she said; "you
might have seen that by now. As for doing
what you tell me, I answer again, I will not. I
will not ask Miss Blunsden for one penny."

''H'm. Well, perhaps it'll be better. I don't
know that the Blunsdens have enough. But, by
gad, I know who has. You shall marry young
Eobur, and I'll come and tell him afterwards.
And, by the Lord, I'll have my money, and my
revenge on you both."

The girl gasped for breath ; for a moment she
thought she should faint ; it was too horribly
cruel. Suddenly she sank on to the sofa sand
burst into a passion of sobs.

So I've broken you at last, have I ? I
thought it wouldn't go on much longer." He
paused and watched her for a little, then went
on again with cold, merciless deliberation. "You
have tried to resist me, but you're beaten. I
didn't think of that plan before, but it shall be

done. I know how you feel about each other ; I
can have him at your feet again in a moment.
You will marry him ; and then when I come to
him, and tell him who is his wife's father, and
what his wife's father has done, I guess there
won't be much difficulty about hush-money.
And then, by G — , you shall see what comes
of your attempts to defy me, when he turns from
a forger's child with hatred. I see it all, and I
swear I never before dreamed of revenge such as
I shall get now."

'' Oh no, no ! " moaned Ursula through her
tears. " I would die rather than do that. Father !
father ! have you no mercy ? "

Mercy ? Do you think I'm a girl like yourself?
Do you think I am going to spare you
because I have made you cry at last ? Not I.
You are going to do what I tell you — I'm too
old a bird to be taken in by the water-works
trick."

Do what you like ; I am helpless — helpless
you know that. But I will die rather than do
what you bid me."

The violence of her passion was over now,
but the nervous strain had been too much for her
to bear; and the suddenness of the last blow
had broken her down. She still sobbed, but
quietly now.

Again Lorton was taken aback by the resolution

that sounded in her voice despite its tremulousness.


She means it, by Jove' he thought. " But
I'll beat her yet. Not now — it'll take time.
She's the stubbornness hussy that ever I met."

You won't do it ? Well then, I'll give you
an alternative. Either what I have said, or come
home with me ; I'll see that you pay your keep,
and a good bit over. Come ; d' you think you're
going through life without doing a thing for your
father ? "

Home — with you ? "

*' Yes ; home with me. Don't you like the
prospect ? D' you think I'm going to let you run
to waste ? How d' you expect to support yourself?
The Blunsden woman won't live forever,
and you won't find a fine gentleman
who'll marry your father's daughter. Don't bea
fool, Ursula. Come with me and I'll see
that you get on ; you were made for the stage,
I tell you ; we shall secure you an engagement,
never fear ; and all London will be raving
about you in a week. Choose which you will
take."

I cannot answer you now. Give me time
a little time — to think. How can I speak
now ? "

Why the devil not ? Look here ; I can't
afford to have any nonsense. Money I must

HONOUR THY FATHER. 119

have, and you must get it me, one way or the
other."

"Not that other way, not that."

Well then, come. Gad, one would think
there had never been a girl on the stage before.
What's there to shrink from ? Don't be so d — d
squeamish." Ursula trembled. '' Well then,"
said Lorton, with the air of one indulging inmost
undeserved magnanimity, '^ we won't talk
about the stage. There's other things a girl with
her wits about her can do."

"Give me time. I will see you again, but I
cannot decide now," said Ursula, her voice still
trembling.

"There goes Paston," said Lorton, as the
hall-door banged. He went to the window, and
watched the doctor walking away. " Well,
just as you like. We'll close the interview,
on the understanding that negotiations are
going to proceed. Good-bye, my dear. Whatnot
even a farewell kiss "? Ah well, you'll
know better soon. Good-bye." And he left
the room.

Poor Ursula. When her father had gone she
remained without moving, silent and wretched.
She could not go down to tea ; they did not
expect her, supposing her to be at the Daltonss',
where she had talked of going that afternoon.
Her brain was in a ferment. What should she

do ? Whither should she turn for counsel or
comfort ? — to Joanna ? That would but give the
dear soul needless pain. How could Joanna
help her in this strait ? She knew now —
Lorton's brutal words had brought it home to
her consciousness, so that she felt what she had
hardly suspected before — that help and protection
might have come from one man, and he
had deserted her. Even had he not, how should
she dare appeal to him now ? AVhat should
she do ?

Why should she accept her father's dictation ?
He had no rights over her. Ah, but how he
might make some of those she loved suffer.
Rather than that she would buy their happiness
with her own tears. And then the vision of what
life under her father's roof would mean rose
before her mind : the men she would be forced
to meet, the words she would have to hear, the
ill deeds of which she must become aware.
Could she bear it ? For a little while she
might ; but with what hope ? Her father had
said truly she could never marry ; how could
she suffer one whom she loved to take the black
burden of her father's guilt upon his shoulders ?
Did Arnold know already, — Lorton had said he
knew him, — and was that the reason of his
strange disappearance ? No, no ; she would
never believe that of him ; but she must not

think of him now. Regrets for what might have
been were vain.

What should she do then ? To whom should
she turn ? With pitiful iteration the questions
recurred, still without answer. Suddenly the
ring on her finger caught her attention — her
mother's ring. What would her mother have
her do ? She rose and took from its resting-place
the letter she had received on her birthday, five
short days ago. Five days ! It might have been
five years. Ursula felt as though more suffering
had been compressed into this one week than
she had known in all her life before. She sat
down again with the letter in her hand. Poor
mother ! It was not hard to understand that
she had found her lot unbearable. " Poor
mother ! " Ursula whispered, and kissed the
letter before she opened it. She read till she
came to the words " I will not defend myself
for deserting him." " Ah, mother, mother," said
Ursula, "you little thought how soon I should
learn what slight defence you needed." Her
tears almost broke forth afresh, but she held
them back, and went on reading. " Humbly
grieving for the past " — what a mockery the words
seemed, as applied to this man who had just left
her. " If I have wronged him then, not rightly
perceiving what to do, or how to serve you both,
be yours the privilege of redressing the injury."

Wronged him ? How could she have wronged
him ^ And yet — yet — might it not have been
otherwise with him if she had stayed by him ?
Might not her influence have turned him in the
course of years ? " It was for my sake she left
him," thought Ursula ; " perhaps I am to blame
after all. Poor mother, she had to choose
between us, and she choose me ; but is there
not still a debt unpaid ? It may be there was
a wrong in so leaving him. Is it to be my task
to redress the wrong; ? "

So pondered Ursula sitting alone, while the
streets beneath grew empty, and the light faded
out of the sky, and the grey sea down below
grew black, and the waves beat on the beach
with their steady sullen roar.

Lorton had reconnoitred carefully on leaving
the room ; and he slipped down-stairs and out
of the house unseen. Once outside he turned and
looked up at the windows.

*' You're not broken yet," he said, " but broken
you shall be before I've done with you ; and
every stab I give you shall go home to that
woman's heart too. I shall have you well within
my clutches soon ; and then, by G — ! see if I
don't make you do as I say ; " and he moved
along with an evil scowl on his face.

The post-office clerks and their sweethearts
had been taking a Sunday stroll, and they passed

him unnoticed. They stopped and nudged each
other with solemn faces, then whispered to the
young ladies, who promptly turned and gazed
after Lorton's retreating figure.

'' Lor ! " they all ejaculated in unison, and
proceeded tea-wards.

CHAPTER VI.

Gibbons TAKES OFF HIS COAT.

Oh, that day of sorrow, misery, and rage
I shall carry to the catacombs of age,
Photograpliically lined
On the tablets of my mind,
When a yesterday has faded from its page ! "

Prince Agit.

"Methinks I had him thar"— ^. Ward.

Among the many mysterious phenomena of
the human mind, there are few more puzzling
than the way in which the solution of a problem
flashes suddenly into our heads when we have
ceased to think of the problem itself. From the
day when Archimedes leaped from his bath and
fled in primitive attire past the startled attendants
through crowded streets to the thronged
market-place, crying, " Eureka ! Eureka ! "- — by
the way, where were the police, who ought to
have stopped him ? — men have vainly sought to
fathom the secrets of unconscious cerebration.
What school-boy does not know how, when
exam, are over and done, and he finds that

five more marks would have secured him his
promotion, the answer to a miserable question
which he had left untouched occurs to him, and
he curses examinations for being " all luck " ?
Who has not conversed with an unknown
stranger who seemed rather put out by his
observations, and a week later remembered
with a groan, as he turned over in bed preparatory
to going to sleep, that the stranger
was Smith whom he met once before at Jones's,
and who was reputed the author of that anonymous
publication which he had been abusing ?

Even so it befell with Joshua Gibbins, when
in the midst of his defence before Mrs. Marchpane
he was stricken with a Great Idea. Heedless
of that good lady's parting shaft, he betook
himself with unwonted swiftness to the solitude
of his own den, there to turn the Idea over andover,
and inspect it on every side, in every
possible light. That Idea itself was nothing
less than the explanation of the robbery.

Arrived in his sanctum, Joshua sat down in
front of the fire, and presently addressed the
attentive walls — the best of listeners, by the
way, because we have it on good authority that
they have ears, and presumably, therefore, hear,
while the most garrulous of us may feel confident
that they will not interrupt.

Ed'ard. There now, who'd 'a thought it ?

A skittish lookin' chap he wur too. An to
think as it wur that chap ! an' yet' said Mr.
Gibbins, as he " rubbed an elongated forehead
with a meditative cuff' " I dun see as it could
ha' bin any one else. Chap must ha' snowed
the 'ouse. Well, didn't Ed'ard ? Must ha' kep'
precious quiet. Well, didn't Ed'ard ? Must ha'
snowed as Mr. Arnold wur away. Well, that's
him again : didn't Ed'ard "? "

Joshua rose and poked the fire to give vent
to his feelings ; then he stood with the poker
in his hand, and spoke winged words to the
window.

"An' fur why wur Mr. Arnold a-axin' of his
name '? Why but because he'd gone an' guessed
it too ? That wur why ! Cattle-oggin ! "

Here a new light broke in upon our friend
which required time for realisation. " Jimmy ! "
he murmured, " an' that 'ere Rock as portended
to be so mighty plucky with his pistols an'
firearms a-surprisin' folks at them hours ! He
wur in it too, an' it were all a blooming sell.
Him a ammonia' me with his Confuses an'
long-winded chaps ! Jest for all the world as
if I'd bin as green as — as a cabbage."

Mr. Gibbins began to feel hot at this notion,
and the housekeeper's taunts recurred to him.
Dull company fur that chap, as sot there an'
talked 's if butter wouldn't melt in his mouth ?

Me dull comp ny ? Who'd a thought as I was
sitting' a hob-dobbin' with a chap as was only
a-waiting' to prig ? Me dull company ? 'specks
I'll give him some more o' my company afore
we've done. Mrs. Marchpane, mum, much
obligated to you I'm sure fur your opinion,"
quoth he, addressing the absent housekeeper
with fine irony, " but you don't know me yet,
not by a long way. I'll take the change out o'
Rock, mum, or my name ain't Joshua Gibbins.
Thought he could make a fool o' me, did he ?
Were good. Jest you wait — an' you'll see."
And the honest bailiff turned in the fulness of
his heart, and smote the coals with the poker
in a manner which would have impressed a
casual spectator with the feeling that Mr. Rock
was likely to have an exceedingly uncomfortable
time of it when he next met Mr. Gibbins.

In accordance with the resolution implied in
the concluding words of the soliloquy, our wrathful
philosopher started a few days later on an
expedition to Copesbury, without saying a word
of his purpose to the housekeeper. As he
travelled, he pondered over the forthcoming
interview, during those periods when he was
not engaged in exchanging amenities with his
companions in the train.

It was not till he had alighted on the platform
at his journey's end that he bethought him of

this ignorance of Mr. Kock's address. This
difficulty, however, was easily got over ; and
with cheerful anticipations he wended his stately
way to the regions where the bookshop was to
be found.

Arnold's visit had left the bookseller in a
very uncomfortable frame of mind. But the
old gentleman's spirits were elastic, and by this
morning he felt almost cheerful. Young Robur
could hardly mean to come down hard on him
now, or he would not have refrained from running
him in as a conclusion to the interview.
But his feelings received a slight shock, it must
be owned, when on descending to the shop, in
answer to certain marked sounds intimating the
presence of an impatient customer, he found Mr.
Joshua Gibbins awaiting him. What did this
portend ? Nothing, at any rate, he felt, could
be lost by urbanity. The light in the shop
prevented him from distinguishing his visitors
expression, as that worthy's back was turned to
the window.

Mr. Gibbins ? allow me to express my
gratification at seeing you again in such apparently
excellent health. Are you the bearer of
a missive from Mr. Robur ? Has he given you
any message for me ? " The bookseller's tone
was more than bland ; it was obsequious.

'^ He hasn't," was the laconic answer.

*' Not ? " cried Mr. Rock, the submissive tone
vanishing from his voice, and being replaced by
one of cordial hilarity : " why, then, it must be
pure good-will that has brought you beneath
my humble roof. Mr. Gibbins, you do me
honour. I may indeed say that others, even
among the aristocracy, have acted with similar
kindly regard for my modest merits. There
was the Marquis of Muddington used to visit
me frequently, I remember, in more prosperous
days. But that may pass. I am sure, Mr.
Gibbins, that you have not come here as a
purchaser, but simply as a friend to remind
me of that memorable evening at Oakleigh.
Come, step up-stairs ; let me lead the way to
my sanctum, my parlour, my den ; and with a
good fire and a fifteen inch churchwarden, you
shall be as comfortable as — as in your own
home."

The bailiff" was overwhelmed. Mr. Rock's
volubility made his head reel — he became scarcely
responsible for his actions. He followed his host
in silence from sheer inability to get out a word.
He even suffered the garrulous elder to fill a pipe
for him and thrust him into a chair by a roaring
fire before he found himself able to speak. And
then he was only capable of ejaculating,

*' Jimmy ! "

Gemini, the twins, as they taught me in my

VOL. III. K

young days. I knew you were a wise man, Mr.
Gibbins, but I was not aware that you were also
a Latin scholar. You refer, I suppose, with
singular subtlety and aptness to the fact that
our mutual feelings might be compared to those
of twin brothers ? A pretty idea, very pretty,
and not altogether unlike one that our late Bishop,
good worthy man, once produced in this very
pulpit at the Cathedral. If I remember rightly,
he owed the suggestion to me ; for he was fond
of dropping in for a chat — but there, I'm talking
about old acquaintances again. Excuse me ; but
as we get old we get talkative, Mr. Gibbins."

The bailiff puffed spasmodically at his pipe.
His manner was a little puzzling to Mr. Rock,
who still did not feel quite sure that there might
not be something up. He resolved to try a new
tack.

'' How is that excellent lady, Mrs. Marchpane ?
I trust she is well. It is really singular how

much she reminded me of the Duchess of ;

but there, I forget. A man of your insight and
discrimination must appreciate and be appreciated
by a woman of such superior intelligence ; and
indeed I must say that I should not suspect Miss
Ehoda of being deficient in that respect either ;
and a comely young woman she is too — but that
is neither here nor there, as we men of the world
know, Mr. Gibbins, eh ? Beauty fades ; virtue

becomes stale, flat, and unprofitable, as the
Psalmist says. It is Brains, sir. Brains that rule
the world, as you and I know ! "

What was to be answered to such flattery as
was here artfully implied ? The honest sage of
Oakleigh was positively dazed by the shower-bath
of words which deluged his ears. But the
reference to Mrs. Marchpane stirred him.

Mrs. Marchpane, sir, is a woman as lev her
wits about her ; but seen' as Prov'dence lev seen
fit to make her jest a woman an' no more, what's
the use ? 'Man nature' ? Much she knows of
'Man nature' ! 'prelate ? Maybe she do, but
she takes the mummies way o' shewn' it as
ever I see. Blest if she didn't say as I wur dull
company ! "What d'ye think o' that ? " And
Joshua having thus unbosomed himself, relapsed
into silence. His speech had already attained
to some length ; he required, so to speak, fresh
supplies of water to produce the necessary steam
for a farther outbreak.

Dull company ? My dear sir ! she couldn't
have meant it — impossible. You will never persuade
me to believe, Mr. Gibbins, that man,
woman, or child outside of a lunatic asylum
could have dreamed of applying such an expression
to you. And an intelligent woman like
that ! Come, you must have misunderstood her.
Even the most lucid of speakers are sometimes

K 2

misunderstood — Mr. Gladstone, for instance, not
to mention myself," said jNlr. Kock with complacent
self-depreciation. " Now it was just such
a little bit of misunderstanding that set the
worthy Earl of Middling and his wife quarrelling,
till they all but got separated; when somebody
suggested that there was something wrong.
Then it turned out that when he thought she had
been abusing him, she had only been abusing
somebody else who was his own pet aversion ;
and so they made it up again. And I'll undertake
to say that Mrs. Marchpane's remark was
capable of being as easily explained. And at
any rate, what matters it to us, who are
philosophers, what the ladies think of us ? Of
course, we would like the sweet creatures to be
careful of our creature comforts ; but if those
are secure, what matters ? The dear souls haven't
our opportunities, and if I may say so without a
breach of becoming modesty, my dear sir, they
haven't our brains either." And Mr. Rock
chuckled, and leaned across to his companion
to point the remark by a gentle pat on the
knee.

Mr. Rock," said Gibbins in a dignified tone,
ril trouble you to drop it. It's were true, allas
you say, no doubt, but, I've heard it afore ;
an' what's more, I could ha' said it myself. An'
my knees was not made for slapping', neither fur

the gen'ral public, so to speak, to be a making' free
with. Drop it."

The bookseller was surprised greatly by this
address. He imagined that he had established
himself thoroughly in the other's good graces,
and the awakening was rude. But he thought
he was more than a match for his rustic friend.

'^ Mr. Gibbins," he said, drawing himself up,
I do not understand your language. "What are
you at ? "

*^ What 'm I at ? Ah, yes. Jest you do a bit
o' thinking', an' you'll know what I'm at. I ain't
come here fur nothing'. Joshua Gibbins don't go
a-loafin' about without he means it — you resfc
upon me fur that."

The precise meaning of this harangue was
exceedingly recondite ; Joshua unluckily had an
astonishing disregard for grammar. But the
general drift was fairly obvious. The bookseller
felt that his guest had not come to Copesbury
merely to smoke the pipe of peace in his den.

I didn't expect this from you when I seated
you in that chair, Mr. Gibbins. You forget yourself,
it appears. If you have no more control
over your feelings than the late Marquis, you
had better adjourn. I assure you I have no
desire to thrust myself into the society of persons
who are unable to appreciate the fruits of
long experience on both sides of the herring

pond ; but I will not be insulted in my own
house by a man — yes, by Jingo, a man with my
own pipe in his mouth ! "

Gibbins paused in his smoking open-mouthed,
and cogitated. Then he turned his thoughts
into acts with calm deliberation. He broke his
pipe in half, arranged the end of it which had
been in his mouth carefully under his heel, and
scrunched it. Then he deposited the other half
on the top of the fire, and drove it home in
leisurely wise ; and lastly, leaned forward in his
chair, and spoke in measured accents.

Pipe ? bless you, there's your pipe — a-
scrubbed."

Mr. Rock felt that this was adding insult
to injury. He resolved to scat this provincial
party.

Thank you, Mr. Gibbins : you remind me
that it is scarcely becoming for me to talk to a
low-bred animal like you. Why, blest if the
chap doesn't think he's got brains ! Lord, he
thinks he knows what he's doing — as if any soul
would condescend to have any dealings with such
an ass — such an ass — unless he saw his way to
immediate profit. Man alive, you're the blindest
fool I ever set eyes on ! Clear out of here ! ofi"
with you ! "

This strife of philosophers would have been a
godsend to Lucian.

Mr. Gibbins rose slowly, and unbuttoned the
breast of his coat. It then appeared that
he contemplated divesting himself of that
article. Could it be that he had an assault
in view ? Mr. Rock was alarmed by the idea.
He imagined that the stolid bailiff would be
overwhelmed, and lack the requisite energy for
farther proceedings. To leave the room was
impossible : he rapidly ensconced himself behind
a table.

Joshua removed his coat, and laid it carefully
on a chair ; then he turned round.

Here," cried Rock, " I say, what are you
going to do ? I was only joking, really I was,
honour bright."

The bailiff disregarded this address. He eyed
Rock behind his rampart. '' I am a-goin''' he
observed, " to let you see as I got something' to
say."

The meaning of chis euphemism was clear.
Rock thought it time to try and shout for assistance.
" Murder ! " he exclaimed.

The other paused. This was a line of defence
he had not reckoned on. But he soon decided
what was to be done.

'* If you holler," he said peacefully, " I'll
knock your pesky old head off." He followed
up the remark by heaving the table out of his
way. Then before Mr. Rock had time for a

scream, his head was suddenly placed in chancery.
He struggled, but it was vain. The hand of
Fate was descending on him, not without evidence
of considerable animus on the part of the
remorseless goddess.

Gr— umph— hi— help ! Lor ! "
Come, what's going on here ? Gibbins ! "
The combatants parted. Panting and dishevelled,
the bookseller fled behind his table

again.

Now then, Gibbins, what's all this ? What
on earth are you doing ? " The speaker, Mr.
Armitage, who had thus opportunely appeared
on the scenes, seemed, it must be owned, more
amused than indignant at the spectacle to which
he found himself a witness.

Gibbins saluted the clergyman apologetically.
'' Ain' your pardon, Mr. Armitage, sir, but I
w^ur jest a-takin' the change out o' this chap
fur his audacious cheek, as come to Oakleigh
a-cattle-oggin, an all fur why ? Why in course,
to see if there wasn't nothing' as he could prig.
An' him a-sittin'' in my room, a-talkin' as if
butter wouldn't melt in his mouth, an' jest been
a-cheekin' of me now till there ! I couldn't ha'
kep' from 'ittin' of him, not if you'd been in the
room yourself, sir."

Armitage could hardly refrain from laughing.
*' Well," he said, '' I should think you'd got

enough change out of him by now for all his
offences. He doesn't look happy. Now I think
you had better go — or you may feel obliged to
hit him again ; and I can't have that. You had
no business to do it at all, Gibbins. That will
do. Leave Mr. Rock to me. Good day."

Gibbins had put on his coat again in the
interval.

Well, sir," he said with dignity, " mebbe I
wur wrong. But there — I'd like to do it again.
Makes me feel as if there wur a brighter side
after all. Good day, sir." And the bailiff withdrew,
deigning only a haughty glance in the
direction of the chastised bookseller.

The Canon's interview with Rock was short.
He had been commissioned by Arnold, who had
gone up to town, to undertake the settlement
of that worthy, to whom he communicated the
fact that Mr. Eobur had resolved to let him off
without farther punishment for reasons of his
own, adding that the condition was that he
should remain at Copesbury on his good behaviour,
as any signs of irregularity would result in his
being handed over to the police. He was to be
allowed to retain his present quarters, under the
eye of the Canon.

And I must say, I don't think you deserve
to be let off in that way," said Armitage, as he
opened the door to depart ; " though perhaps

the account is pretty well squared by the interview
I interrupted just now. Dishonesty doesn't
seem to have paid you better than it usually
does. Let me recommend you to try honesty
for a change."

CHAPTER VII.

GUESSED WRONG.

May Time, who sheds his bight o'er all,

And daily dooms some joy to death.
O'er thee let years so gently fall

They shall not crush one flower beneath I
As half in shade and half in sun

This world along its path advances,
May that side the sun's upon

Be all that e'er shall meet thy glances." — Moore.

In order to follow the fortunes of our hero we
must be prepared to inhale for his sake that
unique combination of smoke and grit which the
Londoner calls an atmosphere. It may be true,
indeed, that there is no other name to call it by ;
but that only proves the poverty of the Londoner s
invention in still using the same term to describe
the genuine article and its spurious substitute.

It was the second evening after Paston's return
from Burnport, and he was just pulling off his
boots after a hard day's work, preparatory to
solacing his weary soul with tobacco, when he
stopped and growled : —

'' Well, if that isn't the —n^^' time I've heard
that bell to-day ! "

The vexation which had occasioned the somewhat
exaggerated mathematical precision of this
remark was turned into the keenest joy when
the door opened and disclosed Eobur, portmanteau
in hand.

The two friends stared at each other blankly
for a moment, and then burst simultaneously
into a duet of laughter.

Ungird thyself, my wandering Odysseus,"
cried the doctor, shoving Arnold into a chair.
Where in the name of goodness have you been
hiding all this time ? "

My dear fellow, how should I know ? I was
at home for a while, I fancy, and then Armitage
housed me at Copesbury."

He spoke uncomfortably. His associations
with Paston were so entirely pleasant that the
first glimpse of the doctor had made him forget
everything but his delight at their meeting ; his
merriment had been spontaneous and unalloyed
while it lasted.

Associations are responsible for a good many
of our va ovaries. It is recorded that a certain
pedagogue, lecturing one day upon the Greek
Testament, invited his class to " turn to the
Blessed Original," by which apt designation he
intended to refer to our English Version of the

same. Peradventure it was not the first time
that a translation has been credited with
authenticity 1

Arnold's brooding sadness had only relinquished
its hold for an instant, and now settled down
upon him again as he took his eyes off Paston's
face.

Well, I see you've come to stay," observed
that cheerful person, seizing his friend's portmanteau
and giving it to a servant outside with
directions for its owner's accommodation.

'' Now," he said, as he returned and closed the
door, " while they're getting some supper for us
I'll tell you a piece of news. To begin with,
then, I've been down at Burnport at your house
of call to look for you. Not finding you, I
stayed a day or so, and made the acquaintance
of your friends at East Else. What do you
think of that ? "

The doctor's hearer apparently thought a good
deal of it. He looked as if he were beginning to
grow interested.

'^ I don't know exactly what business it was
that took you away from the place in such a
harry," continued Paston, " so if by accident
I happen to jump heavily on your feelings you
must forgive me."

*for God's sake go on; you probably know
more about the business, whatever it is, than I do."

Arnold was excited. Could he Lave made
a mistake that night when he last saw Ursula ?
Was Paston going to prove to him that he had
been the victim of a mere optical illusion ?
Impossible : he had never told the doctor the
history of the case. And yet nothing less than
such an explanation could do him any good.
No ; he could not expect to hear anything of real
importance. However, he would make certain.

You saw Miss Lorton ? " he interrupted, just
as the other was beginning.

Yes, and liked her immensely."

There was something exquisitely humorous
about this unconscious irony, and Arnold emitted
a sound that was midway between a laugh and
a groan.

Humph ! er — how do you like the way she
dresses 1 "

Paston concealed his astonishment at this
question with rare presence of mind as he
replied, —

Very much. I never saw tasteful simplicity
set off to greater advantage."

Simplicity ! " (" He's very bad," thought
the doctor.) " Why, she hasn't left off wearing
jewellery, has she ? " enquired Arnold in a
manner that was very obviously forced.

I don't think she had any on when I saw
her," returned the other innocently. " Yes, she

had though," he exclaimed, correcting himself
after a short pause for reflection. " I remember
noticing that she wore a rather handsome ring
on her left hand."

Just so ; but I'm afraid my stupid questions
have made you wander rather from what you are
going to tell me. Please clear up my anxiety on
that point before we talk about anything else."

Arnold's voice was oddly at variance with the
eagerness he professed to feel. He had lapsed
into a cold calm tone all of a sudden, as if what
he said was purely a matter of form.

There's a pretty little complication going
on down there," said Paston, nodding his head
mysteriously, and ignoring his companion's
evident want of interest. " Miss Joanna Blunder
is in the thick of it, and she has taken me
into her confidence, with permission to impart
the whole story to you."

He bent forward in his chair towards Arnold,
and added in a low voice : — " I daresay you are
unaware of it, but Miss Lorton's father has
turned up alive."

Thereupon he described minutely all that was
known of Lorton's career, and identified him with
the long-lost brother," whom his hearer remembered
to have seen haunting the parade at
Burnport. He went on to relate how this
adventurer was scheming to get possession of

his daughter, the energy and devotion of one
brave woman being all that intervened to save
her from his cruel clutches.

We talked a long time, but could find no way-out
of it. Lord knows if he mayn't have succeeded
by now," said Paston, when he had
finished the tale.

Arnold was thoroughly roused : his lips
quivered and his teeth ground together as he
realized Ursula's dependence upon strangers to
shield her from one who should have been her
best friend — her own father. She must soon
know all, if she had not been told already, and
then he would take her away with him from
her home, the healthy innocence of her present
occupations, the friendship of the few people
whom she was learning to love, above all she
would lose Aunt Joan's companionship at the
very time when she had but just arrived at a full
appreciation of it. One feeble link to connect
her with the past might remain in the person
of Frank ; or would he, on discovering the truth,
break with her of his own accord ? Lorton
would be certain to do all in his power to
promote the marriage, as the best thing for him
would be a wealthy and tractable son-in-law.
A luxurious residence in some foreign watering-place,
a life sweetened by filial caresses, — and
filial credit, — these were among the benefits to

be secured by appropriating Mr. Dalton's son ;
how was it possible to suppose that Lorton had
neglected or overlooked them. The only question
was whether the veteran intriguer would succeed
in keeping Frank to his engagement, especially
as his daughter was sure to release her lover,
and might even press him to consider his own
interests by leaving her.

Supper was consumed by the pair almost in
silence, which was not broken till it had been
cleared away, and they were left to themselves.

It is curious how fruitful in discoveries last
Sunday was," observed Paston very deliberately,
selecting a pipe from his rack with critical impartiality
; " you would scarcely believe it, perhaps,
but I made one on my own account. My
hat ! talk about a foul pipe 1 " and he hastily
laid down the offending utensil, and began to
search for another.

At last he was suited sufficiently to pick up
the thread where he had dropped it.

'you remember I mentioned having seen that
fellow Lorton just for a moment : I wonder how
many aliases he can boast, by the way. Well,
whom do you think I recognized in him '? Someone
you have seen and spoken to yourself."

Arnold's heart beat wildly as Paston answered
his own question :

Edwards ! Edwards late of the Tuba, — for I

VOL. III. L

happen to know that he's been out of that for
some time. Why, man, what's the matter ? "

Arnold struck his hands together and sprang
out of his chair. Who would have thought it ?
The doctor's news had turned out to be of supreme
importance after all.

It was now Arnold's turn, and he related
the revelations of the secret drawer, and the
appearance of its missing contents upon Ursula's
finger.

The connexion between the ring and Miss
Lorton's father is certainly clear enough," commented
the doctor, " but I don't see my way to
tracing it farther than his possession ; he couldn't
have given it to her without Miss Joanna's knowledge,
even had it been possible to induce Miss
Lorton to accept it without revealing himself and
his claims to her."

There is a fatal tendency to get bewildered
over somewhat intricate problems of any sort ;
but when such problems relate to human nature,
where scarcely any of the conditions necessary
for solution can be considered as ascertained,
it is owing rather to good luck than
personal capacity that answers ever come outright.
Paston and Eobur both hailed from a
University which is justly famed for the prominence,
of mathematics among its prescribed studies.
Yet it may be affirmed that a senior wrangler

would not have stood a better chance of rightly
comprehending the ins and outs of the difficulty
than either of these honest bunglers.

I fear it is only too easy to see how the ring
got to her," said Arnold sadly ; "it did not come
directly, but through another person — Frank
Dalton."

Paston's incredulity was displayed in his wide-opened
eyes and a gesture of his hands.

He has forestalled me'' persisted Arnold.
'' I might have forgiven him this," he touched
the scar on his forehead ; " but — well, I suppose
he had a perfect right to do it, though the same
cannot be said of the physical pain which he
inflicted. Anyhow, he had no right to economize
at my expense in the matter of procuring an
engagement ring. I had scarcely suspected
them of caring very seriously for each other
before my last evening at Burnport, though he
had been confoundedly in the way for some time.
I thought it was only his awkward, witless
nature that prevented him from seeing how he
must bore her by dogging her about so ; only he
didn't bore her, it seems ; and I was wrong
about it altogether. That night my suspicions
were aroused by the way in which they kept
apart from the others. Then I caught a glimpse
of the ring, my poor mother's ring, — I could
swear to it, — and after that "

L 2

You threw up the sponge," said the doctor
metaphorically, concluding poor Arnold's unfinished
sentence for him. " Ah ; do you think
Master Frank had anything to do with pilfering
your bureau, then ? " he proceeded, trying to
look as if the case was interesting to him mainly
from an abstract point of view, and not for any
personal concern which he might happen to feel
in his friend's happiness.

'' I can hardly help doing so," was the reply ;
the arguments seem to me overwhelming:. Just
think what they are : I find evidence that convicts
two men of having rifled Tay cabinet during
my absence from home ; I go to one of those
men to charge him with having taken the ring ;
in his 'confusion he fancies that I know more
than I do, and then I find out indirectly that
Frank Dalton was instigated by the others to
shoot me. Surely he must have had some
motive of his own for them to turn to account.
Mere dislike would not drive him to such an
extreme, so I am bound to assume that it was
partly terror at the thought of his complicity in
the theft being discovered, and that Rock and
Edwards fostered this feeling in their pupil to
serve their own interests. Then it may well
have been that, as they were unable to profitably
dispose of the ring with safety, they bribed the
young fool with it to murder me, in which case

there would have been plenty of circumstantial
evidence to convict him, and nothing against
them but his discredited word, so long as the
drawer held its secrets."

Yes, I can't say I see any flaw in the argument
so far," muttered the doctor reluctantly.

Perhaps it was scarcely unreasonable that
Arnold should have at first settled it in his
own mind that Frank Dalton was the actual
purloiner of the ring. That he was unable to
form any notion how the theft had been effected
had not deterred him from arriving at this main
conclusion. It was the only possible explanation
of the facts, he had told himself; and he had
clung tenaciously to it, as men will to the unstable
fabric of preconceived ideas. To silently
impute this fresh crime to Frank was to Arnold
an unavoidable breach of charity. Was it likely
that the boy would stay his hand from taking a
chattel when he had not shrunk from attempting
the life of its owner "?

Now, however, events had come to light which
deepened Arnold's bad opinion of his worthless
rival. Instead of being a principal in the ring
transaction, it turned out that he had been
nothing more than a willing dupe, a creature
beside whom the determined villain becomes
comparatively an amiable philanthropist. No
crime is too wild for a besotted weakling : such

a being can pass at one step from drawing-room
nonentity to nauseating triumphs in the arena
of infamy.

Next comes the crowning achievement," proceeded
Arnold ; "he disposes of the ring in a
way that makes it as impossible for me to denounce
him on that score as it was to expose his
former villainy — the villainy that was discovered,
though not actually perpetrated, first. There
you have the entire case, my friend : nothing is
left for me but to hold my tongue and "

*' I can t understand the audacity of that
infernal young scoundrel," broke out Paston
hotly ; " why, if your view of him is correct, I
never knew before what a hardened criminal
was ; and yet I don't see any other view to take,
unless we are to believe that he shot at you
without any motive at all, in which case he
must be mad. Suppose he really is mad, now !
Couldn't you have him watched 1 "

You talk as if I were a regular melodramatic
villain myself, Paston ; " and Arnold smiled dolefully.
" I shall know where to get one signature,
at any rate, if I ever want to concoct a certificate
for the incarceration of an inconvenient relative.
No, no," he went on ; " it is a melancholy and provoking
fact, but he is not a bit mad ; only weak."

Next day Arnold, needing distraction, found
it in walking about London.

It was an occupation which possessed many
attractions for him, though he seldom got an
opportunity of thus indulging himself Walking
with a companion is well enough, if the companion
is agreeable ; but then the enjoyment is
merely that of good company, and the fact of
being on one's legs all the time quite a secondary
matter. A walk to be thoroughly appreciated
for its own sake must be taken in solitude ; the
seclusion must not be broken by more than a
passing greeting. The sincere and single-minded
pedestrian will have no iete-a-fete, except that
absorbing one with Nature. He is unsociable
to the extent of allowing no one to buttonhole
him when he is out alone with his mistress, or
divert his mind from her. Tourists and loungers
two opposite extremes — can do as they like ;
walking being less their object than the achievement
of distances in the one case, and the society
of acquaintances in the other. A man is not
bound to walk for the sake of walking ; but
should he do so, he must become a genuine
hermit for the time. His mental attitude — for
it is not to the mere physical exertion but to
the ethics of walking; that allusion is here made
his mind must change its mien with his body.
Knowing that these two parts of him are
naturally interdependent, he dislikes to set them
at variance by not allowing them to keep step

together when his body takes the air : as if the
soul had no accommodating gait of its own, or
were without the means of adjusting it.

Descending Paston's doorsteps, Arnold ceased
to play the first part on his own limited stage,
and became at once an ordinary spectator of, or
at any rate an unnoticed " walking gentleman "
in, the pageant of humanity ; since it is not
possible for anyone to avoid being a more or
less active member of that company. He hailed
with pleasure the chance this subordinate position
gave him of observing how other " supers " comported
themselves. For, if the truth must be
told, he was getting not a little tired of his own
affairs, and, unlike Milton's Satan, greatly preferred
serving in heaven, as this wider sphere
was by comparison, to ruling a small and select
hell in undisturbed privacy.

Not that he was by any means a town mouse ;
on the contrary, he revelled in country scenery.
Mountains, gentler undulations, plains with their
unobtrusive fertility, forest and lake, fell and
fen, were sights with which he could boast an
intimacy denied to most even of those who are
in the habit of visiting such places. But just as
there are emotions which respond to the various
combinations of external Nature, and just as
localities differ in the suggestions they supply
to the fancy, so there are certain moods which

urgently demand to be propitiated by appropriate
sights and sounds. A rustic homestead chimes
in with a feeling of placid contentment better
than a humming thoroughfare. Elbowing and
being elbowed, hustling and being hustled : that
is a state of things not conducing to placidity.
Such a predilection must be gratified by leisure,
ample room, and the host of simple pleasures
which make up one's modest ideal of life in the
country. So strong is the fostering influence of
these surroundings, indeed, that what is only a
passing whim to start with may be reared into a
confirmed and permanent unfitness for urban
society and pursuits.

Streets, too, have their fascination, appealing
to many restless and not ignoble frames of mind.
A man may be as devout a lover of Nature as
any, and yet feel himself at home here, and not
in the presence of inarticulate creation alone.
Or rather it may be said that the streets themselves
are inarticulate, their burden not behoof
so easy of comprehension from the confused
hubbub of echoes caused by the crowds which
pace or hurry through them. For Nature, extruded
from her fields and hedgerows by the
advancing lines of brick and mortar, doffs her
green mantle and returns, tenfold more vigorous
in her new guise.

Arnold found himself in Oxford Street, and

paused to consider whither he should tend his
steps. With the West End and its sharp, sometimes
revolting, contrasts he had some acquaintance,
picked up on various occasions when he
had stayed with friends in town. But of the
East he knew nothing : so he set off to walk

o

there.

Crossing the boundary of fashion which lies
somewhere between Oxford Circus and Totten-ham
Court Road, he was soon past the hollow-eyed
gentility and intellectual exclusiveness of
Bloomsbury (not that this last is the fault of
Bloomsbury or its institutions). The outlying
strongholds and ambushes of the law came
next, some of them almost deserted by their
legal owners — legal in one sense only, however :
for rents are still paid for the chambers in and
about Lowborn much the same as elsewhere,
for all the kindly efforts of socialist reformers to
remove this antiquated encumbrance of tenancy.
He threaded his way through the City, moved
to a quicker pace by the complacent ostentation
of the paradise of vulgarity, so grotesquely at
variance with the dignity of its architectural
surroundings. He noticed, too, as being a
scarcely less characteristic feature of the place,
the vast amount of eating and drinking without
which business cannot now-a-days be conducted.
It was not till he reached the end of Leadenhall

Street, and debouched into Lydgate just where
a few antique gables have hitherto managed to
survive, that Arnold slackened his speed and
began to breathe freely again. He emerged
upon the region of tramways, and looked about
him in this strange quarter with keen interest.

Everything was new : he was surprised to
find Whitechapel not at all the repulsive
neighbourhood he had expected. In spite of
the greater density of the population, the reeking
courts and alleys, the flood of life that
roared down the main channels, receiving tributary
rivulets at every turn, — in spite too of the
endless variety of pursuits from brewing to rag-picking,
— the contrasts, though they where more
numerous, where not jarringly obvious as in the
parts just traversed. The very sameness took
his fancy, for it was of a kind to which he
was totally unaccustomed. The copiousness of
material, indeed, overwhelmed his imagination
at first ; but presently he grew less bewildered,
and longed to know more about this seething
mass of humanity from which his past experience
separated him so effectually even while he
mingled with it.

The London Hospital with its plain comfortable
appearance was left in the rear now, and
the quaint alms-houses that stand back from
the road wearing an almost irresistible look of

invitation upon their queer old faces. Down
the Mile End Road and its begrimed terraces,
where the houses look out with dim gloomy
eyes upon rank grass plots and blackened trees,
to the canal - bridges of Bow, till the hoary
church opposes its scarred brick bosom to the
ceaseless rush of traffic, a mute protest for which
the triumphant Spirit of Commerce makes contemptuous
allowance by dividing its forces, with
orders to pursue two separate courses at this
point, one on each side of the venerable obstacle,
and not to bear it down incontinently. So onto
Stratford, almost the only interesting thing
about which modernized suburb is that it occupies
a famous site. How this Stratford — the Stratford
of cheap brick facings and an absurdly
pretentious town - hall — how this vastly improved
and enlightened district would turn up
its nose now at the wretched old " Stratford
ante Bowe" which it has so completely dispossessed
and effaced. "Who would dare to speak
slightingly now of the Parisian accent which
may be acquired (terms moderate) at its young
ladies' seminaries ?

Arnold turned into a confectioner's shop, and
continued his meditations over a cup of tea
and a roll. Why should he not try the experiment
of taking up a temporary abode in these
oriental slums ? He thought about this till the

idea took firm hold of him : he resolved to make
enquiries about any social movement that might
happen to be already on foot there, and in need
of active adherents. The era of Toynbee Hall
and the extension of the Underground Railway
eastwards was still to come when Arnold formed
this plan. Unselfish labour was exactly the
thing wanted for him, and he hailed the prospect
of getting work so entirely congenial : he would
consult Paston about it.

He started to walk back. Tramping along
the pavement, however, is tiring work : moreover,
on this particular occasion the wind set
dead in our pedestrian's teeth, driving minute
particles of dirt into eyes, nose, and mouth.
At last he could bear it no longer : a tram-car
was passing, and he took shelter in it.

There were a good many passengers ; that
was all he observed as he took the nearest
vacant seat.

I beg your pardon ; I hope I'm not in your
way," said Arnold, for the individual next him
had started violently, and was edging away from
him in an uncomfortable fashion.

The man made no reply ; but, as Arnold
turned to look at him in some surprise, he rose
hastily and left the car.

There was no misunderstanding this action ; it
was due to mutual and instantaneous recognition.

It was not the first time that Eobur and
Lorton had met, nor was it the intention of the
latter gentleman that it should be the last.
There were circumstances, however, which placed
a person of his refined susceptibility at a peculiar
disadvantage on the present occasion ; he wanted
to be surer of the hand his intended son-in-law
proposed to play before he could take much
pleasure in his society. Hence his sudden and
considerate exit.

Arnold did not attempt to follow. To his
mind, weakened by ill health and suffering,
the occurrence only served to strengthen his
inclination to acquaint himself more closely
with the East End. It was clear that Ursula's
father had his quarters there, and he had a
vague notion that by living in the same neighbourhood
he might be of service to Ursula.
She had Frank to protect her, to be sure ; and
Lorton would be unlikely to burden himself
with keeping her, as long as others were willing
to bear the expense. Arnold could not bear to
think of her living with her father in Whitechapel,
and rejoiced to feel that there could be
no danger of that ever coming to pass while
Aunt Joan was alive. Still, the fancy took him
of keeping Lorton in sight, should that be
possible, for his child's sake.

When the tide of humanity cast him up once

more at Paston's door he was calm, and even
cheerful. The doctor approved of his design
about looking out for work eastward, and
promised assistance.

There will be no difficulty about getting
heaps to do out there," said he ; '^ the only
stipulation I make is that you must be quite
well before you undertake it."

Arnold told him about the accidental encounter
in the tram-car.

And you allowed the brute to escape !
Well, all I can say is that justice would never
be done if such outrageously Quixotic conduct
was the rule," grumbled Paston.

Think not ? Anyhow, I'm going to let
those rogues off, and not bother myself anymore
about them. I'm too lazy to take the
necessary proceedings, if you like : only don't
pester me, there's a good fellow."

The other fumed in silence for a minute or
two. When he opened his lips it was only to
remark :

It's an atrocious piece of foolishness : shake
hands."

"I go up to Cambridge to - morrow," said
Arnold, complying ; " I have changed my mind
there so often before that I may do so again,"
he added with a laugh.

Paston eyed his friend grimly.

One morsel of advice and we'll drop the
subject," was his oracular rejoinder : "be careful
that no false idea of chivalry and self-effacement
leads you to commit a species of moral suicide,
that's all."

CHAPTER Viii.

Unresisted.

*' But, though this irmyde tendre were of age,
Yet ill the brest" of her viigiuitee
There was enclosed ripe and sad courage."

Chaucer.

Me. Lorton had laid his plans for his
daughter's future happiness well, but he was
nevertheless labouring under one or two serious
misconceptions. Chief among these was his
tacit assumption that "the Blunsden woman"
was the only })ers()n, except Ursula, who knew
him for what he really was. All the rest of his
private circle of acquaintances, Robur, Paston,
Frank Dutton, Gibbiiis, even his old friend
Hiram Rock, were ti possession of a mere portion
in most cases a very small portion — of the
facts about himself. He had taken such excellent
precautions to conceal the vital incidents in
his history, telling only the two persons upon
whose silence he thought he could reckon, because
their own interests would be hazarded by

VOL. III. M

exposing him, that tie was inclined to think very
little of his meeting with Arnold in London. It
was inconvenient and premature, nothing more.

The happy father had not quitted the repose of
the sea-side before he was well assured of his
daughter's obedience to his wishes. By dint of
adroit manoeuvring he had secured another interview
with her, at which he experienced the hardly-earned
joy of extracting from her lips the promise
that she would join him in a few days. That
very evening he wrote to her intimating the time
and place when and where he should expect her
to appear. Commodious lodgings in the neighbourhood
of Stepney were already taken, he informed
her, and would be in readiness for them
the following Monday.

How to inveigle Robur into the toils prepared
for him, and induce him to visit " Mr. and Miss
Edwards" in their modest retreat, was the only
problem that now exercised the ingenuous
parental mind.

He huirwd himself when he looked back, and
thought to what splendid effect he had turned
his time at Burnport. He went down there to
find out all he could about Robur with the view
of removing any ground for the misconstruction
which that dull-witted young land-owner might
some day be tempted to place on his conduct as
the temporary though involuntary possessor of

the ring. In this purpose he had been so
thoroughly successful that he could confidently
anticipate the restoration of the ring in the most
delicate way possible to its original owner.
Lorton's knowledge of Frank's attachment to
Ursula had been of great service to him. He
was able to turn it to double account : first asa
means of disposing of the ring in a plausible
manner ; secondly as an occasion of getting
Eobur out of the way just at the moment when
his presence was likely to make matters a little
awkward.

The fact that there were two moths scorching
their winces in the candle instead of one did not
discompose this benevolent schemer. He remarked
it as a decidedly useful trait in his daughter's
character that she should encourage as many
lovers to pay her their addresses simultaneously
as could plead pecuniary eligibility to prove their
honourable intentions. Ursula was not altogether
without his commercial instincts, it seemed : the
thought brought a " flattering unction " which
Mr. Lorton may have been somewhat hasty inlaying
to his soul. But his child's prosperity
was at stake, and he was not long in deciding
between these rival tenders for her affection.
Frank might have a larger amount of spare cash
in prospect than Arnold had rolling about at the
bank to his account now, but then it was in

M 2

prospect only, and not actually guaranteed.
Frank was under age, and entirely dependent on
his father, whose good intentions might not
survive the intelligence of his son's marriage.
Breach of promise was quite out of the question
as a card to play : even supposing it to be possible
for Ursula to be made plaintiff in such a
suit and win it, the evidence would certainly
involve her parent in undesirable notoriety as
the defendant hero of further legal proceedings.
The objections against the other candidate for
the girl's hand were less insuperable ; what property
Kobur possessed was entirely under his
own control, nor was there anything to hinder it
from falling by a natural and informal transfer
as entirely under the control of his father-in-law.
Besides, how could one forego the rich harvest of
revenge which might be reaped by this union
of outlawry with respectability ? Mr. Lorton
found this last reflection infinitely soothing, and
did not long resist its luscious suggestions. He
thought of all the scares Arnold had been responsible
for causing: in his anxious breast and that
of his late amiable colleague. His decision was
made ; with unselfish magnanimity he resolved
that he would bestow his daughter upon the very
man from whose malignant persecution he had
suffered so much. The determination might
have appeared to cost him little, so gleeful was

the expression worn by his engaging countenance
when he arrived at it. No less remarkable
among feats of self-abn elation was the contented
way in which he rubbed his hands as he gently
murmured,

A neat little furnace of the best Wallsend
flaming cheerfully on the top of his blooming
skull would be nothing to it ! "

A strict regard for veracity compels the faithful
chronicler to relate that the yearning father's
perseverance remained totally unrewarded by outside
encouragement. Even the benedictions of
conscience, which are supposed to make up in
some cases for the chilly regard of popular
favour, were denied to him, that usually active
monitor having struck work altogether in his
case about three-and-twenty years before. It
was abundantly evident that Ursula sympathised
neither with his aspirations nor with the means
by which he pursued them. However incorrect
his estimate of his daughter might be, at any
rate he could see that she was scarcely in touch
with him so far.

Thus it was that the day which saw Arnold
depart for Cambridge, with a heart somewhat
lightened of its load of doubt, broke upon at
least one sorely troubled household at Burnport.
The girl had fought out her battle, to be sure ;
and but a few hours sufficed to brace her for

facing what seemed a quite hopeless fate. Her
oppressor's terms were irrevocably accepted now.
Side had acted alone, upon her own responsibility :
there was no choice of ways permitted to her,
and — after the first transient acuteness of
the shock was over — no craven shrinking, no
temporising weakness had interfered to mar her
resolution. But it was over : an interval of four
clear days was still before her in which to prepare
for the future's weary, unremitting sacrifice.
Prepare ! All the softness in Ursula's nature was
stirred to its unknown depths by the word.

Aunt Joan — both the sisters — must be told,
for at present they knew nothing, or at least not
everything. There had been less intercourse
than usual between the members of the little
family of late : had each of them been purposely
avoiding the others ? It seemed so. Further
concealment, however, was impossible. Love
imposes strict obligations on all who enjoy its
treasures, nor was Joanna Blunsden one to turn
a deaf ear to its exactions.

Possessed by a consuming desire for support,
Ursula strove no longer after the empty consolations
of independence, but lost no time in
seeking out her one available friend. She found
Joanna down-stairs by herself; making a feebler
shift than ever to appear profoundly engrossed
by ordinary household matters.

What do you think ? " she began with spasmodic
cheerfulness, — then seeing; the new expression
in Ursula face she checked herself;
and in a moment the two women were clasped ina
mute embrace. A long silence, more eloquent
than any verbal revelation could have been of
the secrets with which the heart of each was
overflowing.

Love casteth out fear," whispered Joanna at
last, kissing Ursula upon the forehead.

They sat down, the elder woman where she
had been seated over her accounts, the younger
on a low arm-chair, almost low enough to be a
stool, at the other's feet.

Ursula held Aunt Joan's hand in hers and
caressed it fondly.

"I heard it all last Sunday : I have arranged to — •
to go away, and live with him in London," she said,
making a strenuous effort to control her voice.

My child, my child," murmured Joanna.
No mother's moan could have been more piteous.

"It is not yet, dear — not for the greater part
of a week. Aunt Joan ; only think, the greater
part of a week ! it might have been so much
shorter ; " and a smile flickered dimly through
the girl's tears, gleaming its faint rainbow
message of hope.

Was it faith or infatuation % Joanna hailed
the symbol blindly.

We are not to be parted like this, my child ;
I will never believe it. No, no ; have you grown
to be more to me than my own Hesli and blood
that I can resign you to one who has never given
you anything but your name ? Why, it is an
undeserved hardship for you to be forced to have
even that in conimou with him : as for it driving
him any claim to your love, it is enough if it does
not make you hate him ! "

Hush, dear, hush ; don't make it harder forme,"
moaned Ursula, hiding her face in the folds
of Aunt Joan's dress.

The poor woman's heart was wrung. " My
own sweet girl " was all she could say as she
bent her head down upon those fair disordered
tresses, and mingled her own grey hairs with
them.

After a while the pang dulled, however, and
they were both able to talk more calmly. The
passion of grief degenerates into mere selfishness
if it is prolonged.

'' Perhaps it will not be so bad as it seems at
first," said Ursula, looking up again ; " at any rate
it would have been worse for me to have left
you earlier, would it not ? though it might have
been less hard for you," she added, with honest
pride that she had proved herself to be not
unworthy of a portion at least of all this tender
solicitude.

Joanna acquiesced sorrowfully. '^I was thinking
only of myself when my tongue ran away
with me just now," she replied ; "1 was thinking
that it was worse for me to bear this separation
than for you, because you have made yourself
everything to me, Ursula. But, after all, that
should make it all the sweeter to look back :
besides, my pain, however bad it may be, cannot
last very long."

You mustn't talk like that. Aunt Joan," said
the girl, caressing her, " or you will make me
show you how thoroughly unpleasant I can make
myself with very little trying. Why, don't you
know how often we fall out over all sorts of
things ? There was only the other day when I
made you quite cross with me about — "

'there, there," interrupted the other almost
smiling, " I don't want to be told all the times I
have behaved like an obstinate old woman, my
dear. I know I shall always be getting into Hilda's
bad books without you to help me keep out
of 'em," and she rubbed her nose with an anticipatory
air of annoyance at the increase of sisterly
friction that promised to be one result of her
coming bereavement.

"Ah, but you'll be deprived of one of your
chief bones of contention, you see, so that will
make some difference."

What a wicked girl you are, Ursula, to try

and provoke me like this ! I declare I shall be
finding fault with you soon."

Then they both laughed rather sadly, — a
dangerous experiment, which threatened very
soon to react powerfully on certain glands known
as lachrymal. However, they managed to stop
in time, and set to work making plans for the
future.

For you mustn't suppose that I've done with
you yet by any means, Aunt Joan," said Ursula ;
you will have to set apart a great deal more of
your time for correspondence than you do now.
I shall want your advice about everything, just
as I always have done, you know, — more, I shall
need it more, because — "

She faltered, and stopped.

Yes, dearest, all I can do you shall have ; a
word will bring me to your side. You will not
be uncared for, depend upon it. There are —
there will be others — " Joanna was labouring
to say something about expressing which she
apparently found a difficulty, — " others to watch
over you, and be close at hand, when you seem
to be alone. I mean, we never know who may
not come forward unexpectedly to help us," she
concluded somewhat lamely.

Yes, it would be hard if I could not make a
few friends of some kind or another in London,"
mused the girl absently. *' I wonder whether I

shall be able to keep up drawing and music," she
went on ; '' but my work — for I shall have to
earn something — will not leave time for much
more than housekeeping, I'm afraid. Ah, that
is the worst part : he will never let me improve
myself in my own way, and I shall remain as
ignorant as I am now of half the riches in the
world."

Joanna sighed : " You must try to get your
own way in that ; you may find your father
more tractable than you think : " but her manner
was less reassuring than her words. There was,
indeed, no colourable pretext for crediting Mr.
Lorton with the least vestige of surreptitious
amiability.

Do you remember the legend we heard in
the caves at Marchland, Aunt Joan ? It may be
superstitious, but I cannot help feeling as if we
ouo;ht to have listened to it as a warnings of what
was going to happen."

The thought was no new one to Joanna : it
had occurred to her even while the tale was being
told, heightening her anxiety for her charge's
future. Nor, as it turned out, had her fears been
groundless. The actual fate reserved for Ursula
seemed scarcely less desperate than that which
overtook the hapless renegade of the story.

There was a distant general resemblance between
the two cases. Aunt Joan admitted.

"Oh, more than that," cried Ursula ; " the
likeness is quite curious when you come to think
of it. This ring now, doesn't it remind you of
the poor boy's amulet ? " and she held up her left
hand till the light fell full on the gem, making
it flash again.

There are no initials on the stone," she
went on, " but there's a motto engraved inside ;
look"

Lie took it off, first removing the guard, and
handed it to Joanna.

Amor rex et lex ; and yet Love cannot always
hold its throne against disloyalty, Ursula," said
she ; '' what if it is forced to abdicate in your
case too '? "

The girl put the ring back on her finger before
replying. Then she made answer bravely :

I am enrolled now, dear, and mean to fight
hard for the royalist cause."

A tear listened for an instant on her brig-ht
head as she spoke, and lost itself among the
soft meshes that twined loosely in a gracious
coronet for the tender, dauntless brow. Ursula
did not notice it ; she only felt that Aunt Joan
had leaned quietly back in her chair. There
was a pause, during which Joanna tried vainly
to torture her features into an expression of
sternness. Giving up the attempt at last, she
protested that women were hardly-used creatures

in being burdened with so much more than their
fair share of fortitude.

''If we were not so long-suffering, my dear,
men would have to be less selfish, and life would
be a more comfortable thing than it is."

Miss Blunsden, mature innocent ! was entirely
unconscious as yet that anything of an unusual
nature had been going on under her roof during
the last few days. She could not be kept in
ignorance any longer, however, and Aunt Joan
took upon herself the thankless task of breaking
the news to her sister. That good woman took
it with exemplary resign action. She even bore
up with such amazing cheerfulness that an
itching desire to give her a good shaking, by
which Joanna was grievously assailed, must have
proceeded from pangs of jealousy at the sense
of her own inferiority. Then Ursula was called
into the room, and Aunt Hilda submitted to be
kissed by her, never once relaxing her saintly
imperturbability.

"We can none of us travel through this hard,
weary world without bearing our crosses," she
murmured, giving a sigh of relief as she was
left alone to settle herself luxuriously in her
chair.

Only somehow one doesn't mind the journey
so much when it can be done in a well-hung
Pullman Car," observed Joanna in gruff

parenthesis ; '' it's the third-class folks who feel
it most."

*' But you will be happy in your allotted
sphere, child," pursued the Mother Superior in
the fervent strain which had gained her such
pious distinction among the members of her
Guild ; " you will be happy if you do not fail
in your duty to the Church of your fathers."

Supposing all the girl's ancestors to have been
of the same type as her surviving parent, the
responsibilities involved in this proviso would
not have appeared overwhelming.

Ursula threw herself on her knees at the
lecturer's side, much to that virtuous female's
discomposure.

Oh, Aunt Hilda," she cried passionately,
you are not glad to get rid of me, are you ? "

Now Miss Blunsden was not proud ; oh dear
no, it would be quite a mistake to suppose that :
still, she was not without a very proper and
dignified feeling of self-respect, and that feeling
conceived itself to be wounded by Ursula's
thoughtless behaviour. Really it was too unbecoming
in her to ask such questions.

The woman gave place to the schoolmistress.
'* My dear, you forget yourself strangely," she
said in a tone of injured surprise ; 'ewe shall
miss you very much, 1 am sure," she added
reprovingly.

But Joanna drew Ursula away and comforted
her, bidding her not to mind Miss Hilda's coldness
; it was her way, she had always been so,
and could not be different.

She doesn't mean anything unkind by it ;
but she might just as well be stretched out on
a frame herself, she can think of nothing but
her everlasting embroidery."

Meanwhile the victim of this misrepresentation,
relieved from her momentary embarrassment,
sat purring on about the gay life Ursula
was going to lead in town, — gay as measured by
her peculiar ecclesiastical standard, that is ; for
nothing would induce the good lady to reflect
that anyone — even Mr. Lorton, whose antecedents
seemed to have escaped her memory —
could hold opinions widely different from her
own m that all important respect. She enquired
after his health froth his daughter, begged her to
assure him that she was disappointed beyond
measure not to have seen him when he called, and
desired that she might have timely information
of his next visit to Burn port.

So the days wore away, — sadly indeed, but
without gloom. For to Joanna and Ursula the
sadness was tempered with a joy that no man
could take from them. Love's radiance casting
its broad shadow of contempt upon all else of
minor consequence.

Arnold was remembered, though neither spoke
of him to the other. Joanna despatched an
urgent appeal to him to return at once, telling
him of the crisis, and how powerless they were
to meet it. Post after post came in, but no
answer rewarded her faithful expectation. She
waited, and waiting strove to nerve herself for
the worst.

CHAPTER IX.

CONTRA MUNDUM.

"Oh human souls, while Time yet rolls,
Your labours past or scarce begun ;
High thoughts, sweet words, the smiles, the tears —
In these ye live through endless years ;
I move in your midst, and we are one.

*soh my heart's Love, all maids above.

My life's pure light, my soul's sweet sun.
Dear, you are all the world to me ;
One kiss, and griefs and fears must flee.

And You and I in God grow one I " — Loose Leaflets.

Well, Robur, you have seen a good many
things since last we met ; do you find that your
enlarged experience has tended to settle your
convictions ? '^

The speaker was a man of middle age, with
something of that peculiar air which long residence
in either university is wont to bestow ;
anyone skilled in the ways of men would have
put him down as a don without hesitation. He
was slight, and somewhat delicate-looking ; but
the full jaw and firm lips, with a humorous
smile flickering about the corners, showed that

VOL. III. N

he was anything but a weak man ; while his
face, which might otherwise have seemed somewhat
cold, was made singularly attractive by a
pair of very kindly grey eyes. Arnold had left
London with his brain in a state of wilder chaos
than ever after Paston's disclosures, and betaken
himself to the shades of his Alma Mater : and
had gladly accepted an invitation to spend the
Sunday evening which was to be his last at
Cambridge in the company of his former coach
at St. Boniface's. Arnold was a Trinity man
himself; but circumstances had brought him into
connexion with this man, who was popularly
known among a certain circle of more or less
ardent disciples as Sokratidion. The casual
acquaintance had ripened in a rather unusual
way into a strong friendship, and our hero was
one of the most uncompromising worshippers of
the sage of St. Boniface's, in whose rooms they
were now sitting together, discussing the philosophic
pipe.

Arnold sat gazing at the fire some moments
before he answered.

"No, it hasn't," he said presently. " AVhen
I went down I fancied that I had got a tolerably
clear theory of life of an optimistic character.
But my theory was inadequate ; it is foggy ; like
the Cheshire cat, it is fading away with a grin
on its face — and the optimism is going with it."

*' Inadequate — yes. It is no easy matter to
deduce a universe from a shell picked up on the
sand : the next pebble we see may upset all our
theory."

No doubt," said Arnold : "at four-and-twenty
one's knowledge is limited enough. Butin
the years that have passed over men's heads
since John the Baptist was preaching in the
wilderness, we might have found something to
go on." He spoke drearily, almost angrily.

We found a good deal to go on, even before
that," answered the other, " and a good deal
since. I fear your experiences have not been
wholly pleasant. How long is it since we
learned that the earth goes round the sun ?
Men were told pretty constantly for several
centuries that physical science was presumptuous
and empty enquiry into the hidden things
of God ; but we have exploded that notion.
Surely we are not going to give in to the same
theory about the other fields of knowledge."

Arnold was in a desperate mood.

To what end ? " he replied. " At twenty
we have picked up a shell or two ; at fifty a
few more ; at seventy we have a small heap ;
and just as we feel that we are beginning to be
ready to begin — the candle goes out. ' Man
goeth forth to his work and to his labour until
the evening.' Yes — and then ? "

N 2

And then it is all over, you would say.
But— is it?"

Kobur looked up. '' Why not V he said ;
and if not, will that help me ? I don't want
to spend eternity rolling a stone up-hill, and
being rolled down again by it. I have no
ambition to emulate Sisyphus in another world
though I seem to follow his example pretty
consistently in this one. It would be worse
than orthodox fire and brimstone."

Is that the only alternative, Eobur ? I am
not going to offer you the hope, held out inmost
of our pulpits, of the resurrection of the
body — which is not saved from bearing to the
masses a purely materialistic import by such
phrases as a ' spiritual body,' which to most
people is merely unintelligible ; nor am I going,
on the other hand, to deny what is quite a
different affair, the perpetuity of individual
consciousness. But I don't mean to lay stress
on it either by asking, ' Is it all over ? ' That
question is not necessary for our present discussion."


How do you mean ? " said Arnold, relighting
his pipe, which he had allowed to go out.
*' My personal continuance doesn't affect the
question of its being all over ? "

Look out of the window, Eobur," said the
other.

Arnold complied, knowing this friend's eccentric
methods of illustration. " By Jove," he said,
"it's a splendid night. The moon is glorious.
But what's the point ? "

"What about the sun?"

Arnold was puzzled. " The sun ? " he said,
interrogatively.

The man they called " Sokratidion " smiled.
"Yes," be said: "the sun. He set hours ago,
you say ; but the moon is shining with his
light for all that. Plato died and was buried
two thousand years ago ; but we live by his
light now as much as men did then. How
much of our modern thought is directly due
to him ? Is it all over with Plato, or Paul of
Tarsus ? Don't talk to me of death, my friend.
Dust to dust is true of kings and philosophers
and poets, but it is no mere metaphor to say
they never die. The Iliad and the Odyssey
may have been written by one hand, or a
hundred ; however that be, Homer lives today.
Shakespeare lives as truly and fully as
when he married Anne Hathaway."

Arnold sat down again, but made no reply.

This seems to be undeniable, Robur : yet
it is overlooked, unaccountably enough, in the
current dogma of Christianity. By * eternal
life' we are taught to understand continued
consciousness : though it is curious that no

preacher will precisely treat eternal death as
the cessation of consciousness — though I suspect
that the perpetual enforcement of the notion
of eternal life so conceived as desirable is partly
responsible for the popular fear of death. Of
course it is an illogical piece of confusion ; but
I think it is a fact. It can hardly be argued
that man necessarily in the nature of things
longs for this kind of immortality. I once read
of a little girl to whom the nature of future life
was so explained ; and her teacher was horrified
by the answer. ' What she said, ' will it goon
for ever — and ever — and ever ? ' ' Yes, my
dear ; for ever, and ever, and ever.' ' Oh I . .
. It makes me feel so tired ! ' "

Eobur laughed. " I can understand it," he
said.

The feeling is not specially rare, I fancy.
But the doctrine is in part also responsible for
the materialistic conceptions of the orthodox
masses — outside of whose ranks, by the way,
I have rarely met a real materialist. To them
there is nothing of metaphor in the talk of heaven
and hell. They think of them as real places;
they expect — themselves — to go to the former,
and sit on golden thrones singing ' Hallelujah '
to all eternity, while their brothers and sisters
baste in the bottomless pit. And you may
almost lay it down that the more vulgarly

material their conceptions are, the more certain
they feel of their own salvation."

^' I fully agree with you," said Arnold, " and
I can't help thinking that there is a good deal
of justification for a remark that was quoted a
good deal when I was up."

What was that ? "

"One an underbred. made; it strikes me as
being rather to the point. ' For climate,' he
said, ' give me Heaven ; but for society .' "

Sokratidion's eyes twinkled. " Yes," he said,
*' and it is precisely the view of things which
makes such a remark possible that I am attacking.
With a loveless heaven, and all the noblest
souls in Gehenna, I should prefer the brimstone
lake as a question of superior happiness. It is
the outcome of our habit of insisting on one
view of immortality which may be true, to the
exclusion of another which is certainly true. I
don't deny personal immortality ; it is not inconsistent
with the other ; but it is on the other
that we have to lay stress, now at any rate."

"I see something of what you mean," said
Arnold, " when you say that Shakespeare or
Plato are still living ; or the dozen authors of
the Iliad, if there were a dozen, though their
names are lost, and we swallow them all up in
Homer. But I hardly see how that affects the
mass of mankind, who go down to their graves

and leave no ^ monumentum acre perennius.^ The
men who have wrought mighty works may live,
though their names perish : but we who do no
mighty works, we ordinary landlords, shopkeepers,
undistinguished privates in the great
army — it seems to me that we are the merest
ephemerae."

Who told you that the ephemerae perish ?
If a midge dines off you, its little existence
may be terminated by severe indigestion, or the
simple process of a slap on the back : but you
will go home ; possibly, man being frail, you
will stamp when the bite twitches : your heel
descends on somebody's toe, and in an access
of passion he brains you with the poker, for
which the law very properly will hang him ;
he being a youthful poet, his premature end
will bring his works, which ought to have
perished, into notoriety, and he will live forever.
All due to that ephemerae you spoke of
so slightingly just now. It is the midge that
lives for ever : don't speak rudely of midges."

Arnold laughed again. " Admitting the possibility
of our diminutive friend's — or enemy's — ■
immortality, if the programme you sketch is
carried out, that is practically giving him his
monument outlasting bronze. What if I doit
tread on the budding poet's toe ? "

Kindly look out of the window again."

Well, what is your parable now ? "

How many stars do you see ? ''

How many ? say ten millions ; I'm not an
astronomer."

** And how many are there you don't see ? "

*'Z^ I should think," said Eobur : "now
expound."

My friend," said the philosopher, " if one
solitary star out of all those millions had been
omitted by the Creator, the whole arrangement
of the universe would have been altered. Say
it is a star so far off that it will take another
twenty million years for its light to reach us —
no matter, the whole system would have been
affected by its non-appearance. There is nothing
so small, so seemingly unimportant, that
we can afford to say * It makes no difference.'
No flower that ever blossomed wastes its sweetness
on the desert air. The seed has influenced
the history of the universe. That pestilential
visitant of sea side ' lodgings with an ample sea-view,'
the arch enemy of slumber who may only
be spoken of periphrastically, so that we must
use about a hundred syllables to describe him —
more or less — instead of his proper One, the
parent of many curses, who sets you swearing
at your landlady, has had a permanent effect
on your character.

Don't suppose I'm joking, Eobur," he went

on after a short pause ; " I may express myself
jestingly, but I am talking serious truth for all
that. There is no thin gr in this world so mean,
so common or unclean, that it will not stand tous
for a symbol of immortality. Every trivial
thought, word, or act has its consequence ; contributes
its mite towards producing some effect.
If midges and fleas have their immortality, what
shall we say of man ? Man more than any other
living: beings affects the course of the world's
history. You say you understand me when I
claim for Plato, or Alexander, or Hannibal the
same immortality which belongs to the martyr
whose death-cry is a shout of victory, whose
dirge is a paean of triumph. But I tell you that
Judas Iscariot is immortal too ; for good or for
evil, the prophet and the traitor alike do their
work, and live for ever, inasmuch as their work
lives. And not only they, but those too whose
names and deeds are alike forgotten. Men look
on the little mound in the churchyard with its
tiny cross, and wonder at the mystery of a life
ended almost before it was begun ; but I say that
the very babe which just struggles into the light
to turn its face to its mother and die, is immortal
with Socrates and Shakespeare. Who shall say
of the mother that she can ever again be as if
that moment had not been ? The little one is
laid under the sod — but its work is done ; a

chapter in the world's history is written in the
line that marks its burial-place."

The solemn tones of the speaker ceased ; for
some minutes neither of the men uttered a word.
Arnold was the first to break the silence.

Yes," he said, " that is a fine thought. It
is an easy enough thing to talk of the tramp of
Caesar's armaments still resounding through
Europe, or the dagger of Burke still lying on the
floor of the House of Commons : we can all see
that pretty readily. But we don't often think
of extending the conception as you have done."

'' To my mind," said the other, " this consciousness
gives an infinite solemnity to life. On
every choice we make there rests, in however
small a degree, the course of the universe through
eternity. It sounds like inordinate exaggeration,
but for all that it is true ; there is no cause but
has its effect, fixed and certain : we reject alternative
sequences as we reject spontaneity. The
chain is unbroken. The present contains the
whole of the future : it contains also the whole
of the past. So, in another sense than that
which the words ordinarily bear, we may say,
That which was, is : and that which is, will be :
and there is nothing new under the sun.' In
another sense, because even while we say it, we
know that all things being one and eternal are
yet constantly moving and changing. To us the

great sea, always one, never the same, is the
fittest emblem of the universe. Physicists tellus,
and we hail their words as the counterpart of
the doctrine, that the sum of energy is constant,
and the sum of matter constant; but only because
change also is constant. If you wish to feel the
magnitude of the thought in all its intensity, go
up into the mountains, or gaze out on the ocean ;
fly from the roar of the streets, the rush of society
with its mass of petty details, or you will lose
your touch of the whole. These things are good
in their way, but we must escape them now and
then, and take refuge in solitude ; suffer our
spirit to feel immensity, and our soul to commune
with the Eternal. So our heart knows
that our small joys and sorrows are as transitory
nothings, save as tiny parts of a mighty whole :
they shall perish, but the verities of which they
are symbols shall endure, and endure eternally.
And they to whom is granted the beatific vision
return with new strength and peaceful hearts to
the ^ trivial round, the common task ; ' though
their time be passed in nothing more splendid than

That best portion of a good man's life,
The little, nameless, unremembered acts
Of kindness and of love.' "

Again there was a pause, while the two men
sat and smoked silently. Arnold's mind had
gone back to that first walk of his with Ursula.

There was a tinge of bitterness in the thought.
Half unconsciously he began blowing rings.

'' There," he said with a half-laugh, as he
watched the wreaths of smoke eddying round ina
particularly successful circle, '' there is your
emblem of immortality."

The ring was scattered by your breath,
Eobur, but your words were true enough for all
that ; we mustn't forget that change is as needful
as constancy. You know the saying of
Heraclitus."

Which might vulgarly be called ' shop.'
Well, shop covers most things worth talking
about. The word is another bit of Philistinism."

Philistinism, materialism, vulgarity, whichever
of the three you choose ; though I won't
join in your condemnation of the word, which is
useful. But the objection to talking shop is one
of the marks of the Philistinism which is the
bane of all popular thought and practice — or
most of it. Pm in a talking mood to-night,
Eobur, I warn you. Don't let me bore you."

You're not likely to bore me," replied Arnold,
in a tone which implied absolute confidence.

'' Well, I am going to do some more tilting at
windmills, as some folks might call it, and take
the chance of being ignominiously scattered :
because it seems to me that an untold number of
lives are blighted, more or less, by materialism

in one form or another. I know of nothing in
respect of which the mass of minds, practically,
are more crudely materialistic than marriage."

^' I don't know that there is anything particularly
remarkable in that."

Possibly not : yet there is nothing in which
it does more harm. I don't know, either, that
the Church is of much assistance to us there.
Look at that preliminary homily in the Marriage
Service — how does it strike you ? "

Arnold looked up with some surprise. *' Well,
it indulges in some plain speaking ; but surely
you don't object to that ? "

His companion laughed. '' Not I," he said :
I often wish we had a little more of it. But I
suspect you haven't studied that homily. What
is the view of marriage it bears on the surface ?
No doubt you can read a great deal into it that
would spiritualize it immensely ; but without
reading between the lines, what does it say ? In
effect this : that marriage is an institution for
the purpose of keeping men straight ; for the
convenience of society ; and the procreation of
children. That is the authoritative announcement
of the Prayer-book ; though of course it is
not the teaching of the better men in the Church.
Well, is marriage no more than that ? The
theory is the natural outcome, in one way, of the
mediaeval ascetic notions. Love is regarded as a

carnal desire ' ; carnal desires are wicked, and
there is no good word to be said for them ; but,
as people will marry, we had better put the best
face we can on it, and give our sanction in a
semi condemnatory manner. Well, what is the
result ? Love and marriage beings treated as
marks of our fallen nature, the whole conception
of them is degraded. The views of society run
parallel with the doctrine of the Church ; and
marriage becoming simply a question of convenience.
Love is 110 longer regarded as a necessary
preliminary : it is the foolishness of youthful
romance."

And yet novels which don't uphold love,
and finish up with a crash of wedding bells, are
very little read. Doesn't that militate against
your theory of the general contempt for
love % "

Not a bit, my friend," said Sokratidion,
rising and taking; his stand with his back to the
fire : " not a bit. Nobody wants to get rid of
youthful romance altogether ; it is pleasant for
the fancy to dwell on. We like our fairy tales,
but we don't believe in fairies. We keep romance
going, but we don't want it to interfere in
practical life. Try your woman of the world,
who reads her poetry and her novels : get heron
to one of her favourite bits of washy sentimentality
: she will gush over it beautifully : ' so

charming, so romantic ; " and then watch her
trying to hook young Midas for her eldest
darling. I don't know that the marriage market
is regulated so entirely by money considerations
as it has been ; Thackeray's pen couldn't have
been without some effect ; but I don't believe
love is much more to the fore than it was. We
prefer to veil our Mammon worship. *Don't
thou marry for sunny, but goa wheel sunny
is ' is the regular maxim."

*' But look at the question practically," said
Robur, puffing at his pipe viciously : " which are
the happy marriages ? How often are we told
that a far larger proportion of love-marriages
than of manages de convenance end unhappily ? "

There are two facts which explain that view
of the matter : one, that half the ' love-marriages '
aren't love-marriages at all ; the other is, the
nature of ordinary marriages. Why should they
be actively unhappy ? People enter on them
with very low ideals. The woman gets what she
wants — butter to her bread ; the man gets what
he wants — a decorative head to his establishment.
If they are tolerably sensible people,
with an average supply of tact, there need be
very little friction."

Well, is that such a very debased state of
things ? "

I call it so, beyond doubt. It is elevating

to neither husband nor wife ; and love and
marriage should elevate both."

Look at the other side of the picture then.
What about the love-marriages ? "

I told you, half of them aren't love-marriages.
Two young people get up a little liking for each
other, both being agreeable enough; and, as they
aren't old enough to have got the romance out of
them, they fancy they are in love, and go and
marry on nothing a year. They aren't in love a
bit : they have only a worked-up, sentimentalised
liking for each other. Naturally, they find that
out afterwards ; they had some sort of ideality
about their notion of what married life would
be, and they are all the more disappointed when
they find they don't prove much use to each
other : so they each think the other to blame,
and bicker, and quarrel, and the gulf widens,
and the world looks on and says, * Look what comes
of marrying for love ! ' " And the sage began
walking up and down the room, apparently ina
state of most philosophic excitement.

Look here," he went on, turning in a far
corner of the room and facing Robur : " I tell
you what it is ; Mrs. Grundy is at the back of it
as usual. No doubt the excellent old lady hasher
merits, and prevents accidents here and
there ; but the harm she does outweighs the
good infinitely. She successfully prevents the

VOL. III. o

possibility in most cases of a man and woman
knowing each other tolerably well before they
are married. What can a man, ordinarily, know
of a girl ? Two or three dances ; a few calls ;
a conversation in the conservatory — and the
business is done. The knot is tied ; and man
and woman are man and wife before they are
even friends : then they begin to know a little
of one another. There is an astonishing amount
of guess-work in these matters. If there wasn't,
we should have to adopt the universal manage de
convenance, or the Malthusian problems would
cease to puzzle us with startling rapidity : we
should have to send out to Melbourne and Sydney
for colonists to keep the population of England
going. But that is by the way. As it is, the
moment a man lets a girl a little way below the
surface of him, he is supposed to have ' intentions';
that is one of the greatest bars to what I
hold as the true ultimate condition of marriage
being sanctioned, that the man and the woman
should love each other wholly."

You attack the world pretty warndy on that
head : are you going to attack the flesh with the
same zeal ? "

The flesh ? Yes, if you mean by that the
doctrines of sensualism which some people are
holding up as the gospel of the nineteenth
century, as a curative for Philistinism. That is

the worst blasphemy of all, to my mind. But
I am not going to adopt the position of the
people w]io want to get rid of the flesh altogether ;
who would say that Love, if it be admitted at all,
must be merely the union of two souls. It is
that on its higher side, no doubt ; but that is
only one aspect of it. ' The value and significance
of flesh ' once learnt ' we can't unlearn ten minutes
afterwards.' No man need be ashamed to tremble
at the touch of a little hand, the glance of a
bright eye, the smile of a red mouth. We want
our loves to be beautiful : it is vanity to talk of
flesh fading. You might as well tell a man that
the everlasting hills will be flattened out, as that
his mistress will some day be ugly. She will be
beautiful to him for all time. Byron's

I know not if I could have borne
To see thy beauties fade,'

was worthy of the man who never loved in his
life. I don't know if the quotation is correct,
by the way, but he has lines to that effect. If
he had loved, the beauties never could have
faded. People who want to get rid of the
animal in man are doing very little better than
our friends we were talking of jusfc now, who
want to give us resurrected protoplasm in place
of our immortal souls."

Hullo — take care : it's as well some people

O 2

didn't hear that. You would be hooted as a
blasphemer."

Why ? " said the other, laughing, " for calling
flesh protoplasm ? The resurrection of protoplasm
is what half our friends believe in. Saint
Paul never said it ; but if it is what they believe,
why is it blasphemy to say so ? If it isn't, if
nobody believes in it, so much the better ; but
where is the blasphemy '? "

Never mind. Logic is useless in these cases.
Go on."

Wei," said the other, returning to his chair,
and sitting down again, " I don't know that we
need say much about these people, except
by way of showing that we aren't theorising
without a due regard to the facts of life. The
thing I want to arrive at is this : that Love,
instead of being shoved aside and looked upon
as a light matter, a feeling easily stirred and
easily got rid of again, should hold its true place
as the noblest and most purifying power in a
man's life. Plenty of people agree in that
theory ; there is no novelty about it ; but they
don't agree in practice : and the actual belief in
loving once and for ever is woefully rare. And
the reason is partly that folks won't distinguish
between liking and loving ; " and he turned to
put some fresh coal on the fire.

But what is one to do ? " said Eobur. 'you

say yourself that it is a hard matter for a man
to get rational ground for loving a girl ; mostly,
we only get the chance of doing what you would
call, I suppose, taking a fancy to her."

Yes. I don't say the road is an easy one to
travel. A man has to think what he is about ;
his * fancy ' must be an uncommonly strong one.
Somehow, most men of at all imaginative natures
can make an angel out of very small materials,
though. A very strong fancy indeed may be the
outcome of a very slight acquaintance : and such
a one may, I should say, be pretty vv'ell relied on.
But it must be capable of surviving a tolerably
long separation. If it does that, I should say
it has grown to be Love — and a man may well
stake his life on the chance. Love is no mere
liking : it is a worship ; it takes a man out of
himself and brings him. into communion with
Eternity : it is a perpetuation of that beatific
vision of which I spoke just now : to know it is
worth any conceivable risk. It makes a man
ready not merely to die for his beloved, — that is
an easy matter, — but to live for her : to live for
her, if it must be so, without reward even. ' 'Tis
better to have loved and lost' — the saying is
sometimes made a subject of college debating
societies. What do they know about it ? No one
who knows what Love means can question it."

I don't know," said Arnold mournfully.

You don't ? Ask yourself again whether it
is true two years hence. You will know then."

Arnold saw that he had let out his secret :
he looked up at his companion.

My friend," said the other quietly, " I know
you well enough to say what your answer will
be. You will know that you where elevated by
the feeling : you will know that its fruit is not
dead in you : you will recognise the truth of wdiat
I have said, and am going to say. From your tone
I should say — forgive me if I am wrong — that
you have not lost yet, but fear that you have."

Arnold was silent.

Well then, come what will, I should tell you
to hold to your love. It is a bitter thing to know
that the woman one loves has given her heart to
another ; but it is better even so to endure silently
than to lose your hold. At auy rate, remember
this : it is no real love which will not trust too.
Trust her heart — there may be matter you know
nothing of Trust her heart, even if you know
that her judgment has led her astray. And if
hope still remains, bear this in mind — that there
is nothings in this world worth the winning in
comparison with a true woman's love. Fame is
a pleasant thing ; it is good to have your laurels ;
but the winning them gives no joy like the laying
them down at the feet of one woman. Would
any true lover change places with a Napoleon, a

Goethe, a Rubens ? Statesmen, soldiers, poets,
and painters,

Shut them in
With their triumphs and their glories and the rest.
Love is best.' "

Again there was a long pause. Arnold was
gazing into the fire ; his companion went to the
window and stood watching; the twinkling; stars.

Arnold started, and looked at his watch.

Do you know the time ? " he said ; " I must
be off, I'm afraid. 1 have to catch an early train
in the morning."

Well then, we must say good-bye, I suppose,"
said the other, returning from the window.

I'm afraid so. By the way," said Robur,
laughingly, " some of our friends would have been
surprised to hear you to-night, if they looked
on you — as I did — as a confirmed bachelor."

His companion looked at him and hesitated a
moment before answering. " Yes. You and I
are friends, Robur. Look here."

He went to a corner of the room and unlocked
a desk. Out of it he took a small packet, and
gave it to Arnold.

Arnold unfolded the paper and looked. Justa
lock of hair, and a date : that was all. Reverently
he folded it again, and returned it silently;
and the two men shook hands, and parted without
another word.

CHAPTER X.

PENITENTS.

'the sweets of love are washed with tears." — Careiu.

I'm blest if I can make head or tail of it,"
observed Mr. Gibbins, partly to himself and
partly for the behoof of Mrs. Marchpane and
Ehoda, who were ens^ao-ed in making; Arnold's
library uncomfortably clean and orderly. " 'Ere
lev he bin a-droppin' in three days running' ; and
when I says the master ain't come back, and
waits for him to leave a message or think, it's
just ' Thanks, maybe I'll look in again to-morrer,'
and ors he goes. I never snowed anyone pay his
attentions so regular afore." Thereupon Gibbins
scratched his head, and contemplated the housekeeper
in an aggrieved fashion.

Well, I never ! " was that cosy matron's
elliptical rejoinder ; " you don't mean to say
that was Mr. Frank you were talking to just
now, Joshua ? I dare say now you frightened
him speaking so short and peppery."

The bailiff felt flattered by this gratuitous
compliment to his power of striking awe into a
fellow creature.

Comes prancing' up without a coat, and a
snow-storm just beginnings'' he went on, commenting
severely on the visitor's injudicious
disregard of his personal welfare : " axed him
if he'd like the carriage umbrella to keep him
from getting soaked, thinking' as it wouldn't
matter lending' it just for the day, yer see ; but
not he. I don't believe in a man a-physickin' of
himself, been' what yer may call tenacious o'
quacks, as a gen'ral root, myself; but I specks
they'll lev to call in the doctor to him if he goes
on like this."

My certes ! " exclaimed Mrs. Marchpane,
allowing her attention to wander from the wonderful
remarks of the philosopher in leggings to
the flakes which were already falling sparsely
outside : " Open the window quick, Ehoda, and
let's get rid of this dust before the snow gets
worse."

Here was a piece of imprudence not to be
countenanced by the cautious Gibbins.

You'll both catch your deaths of cold," he
remonstrated ; " winders ain't meant to be opened
where there's human beings about, leastways not
on a day like this, an' no fire neither. Seems tome
as most aliments is doo to draught. Ah, you

needn't look surprised, mum ; there's Scripture
warrant for it. I dunno where I heard it — ina
sermon, probably — but the must winders was
them as Noah putt in the Ark, an', sure enough,
ages went down uncommon sharp after that."

This masterly specimen of exegesis was too
much for Rhoda ; she was fain to hold her sides
before she could unbolt the sash. Mrs. Marchpane
going to her assistance, happened to glance
through the pane, and gave a little start.

'^ Why, if that isn't the Burfield cab coming
up the drive," she said.

Right you are, mum," was Joshua's confirmation,
as he peered over her at the very unmistakable
vehicle in question ; " and Mr. Arnold's
portman on the top," he added, smiting his leg
with something as nearly approaching gleefulness
as it was possible for him to exhibit.

They all hurried to the door just as they were
to receive our hero, who was accompanied by
Frank Dalton. That young gentleman had met
Arnold upon the road, and been asked to take
his seat in the cab.

A precious good thing, too, for you, sir ; else
you'd have bin turned into a walking' icicle, rest
upon me," asseverated Gibbins, in an aside
designed for his private ear.

The short interval which Arnold had spent at
Cambridge had done him a great deal of good.

He felt clear now on some points which were
obscure enough before. If all things do not
come to an end, as modern science seems to
affirm, at least doubt and harrowing uncertainty
are among those that do.

He had tried hard to persuade himself that he
must get over his passion ; but he had failed,
and then for a while his mind had been thrown
into a state of turmoil. The relief afforded by
breathing a purer atmosphere of thought had
changed all this : he saw plainly for the first
time, not merely that he was too deep in love
to draw back, but that he had been wrong to
think of drawing back. His heart was right
after all, and he must somehow have gone astray
over that notion about Frank. Appearances had
certainly been against the boy, but he had been
too hasty in believing them for more than they
were worth. No, no ; Frank had not supplanted
him, and all the rest was easily forgiven. He
was half inclined to jump out and tender an
apology to Frank for his groundless suspicions
when he met that promising youth toiling home
against the wind. All he did, however, was to
answer the other's stare of surprise by shouting
to the driver to stop, whereupon his young friend
came sheepishly up, and took Arnold's proffered
hand.

He seemed a trifle less dull and heavy for

all his awkwardness, though : perchance some
goddess had taken pity on her clownish worshipper,
and wrought this metamorphosis in him
in her unwillingness to accept the homage of any
graceless thing. Yes, that must be it ; but was
this long-suffering condescension the same thing
as the goddess' unconditional surrender of herself
to one chosen out from all her followers ?
Supreme love for that one could not limit her
natural care for the rest.

Come back with me," said Arnold kindly,
opening that one particular door in the Burfield
cab which could under any circumstances be
induced to act as a door, and not as a permanent
fixture solely designed by the philanthropic
builder for the free circulation of draught, dust,
and mud in minute quantities inside the vehicle.

Frank complied with the invitation, and no
sooner did they jolt onwards than he began to
pour out disjointed the plea for forgiveness
which his long delay had made so difficult.

The roar of the wind combined with the
rattling and creaking of the cab to form an
accompaniment so loud that it almost drowned
his words. This probably accounted for Frank's
incoherent volubility ; for after he had once
managed to unclose his lips there was no dearth
of material to bring him to an early close ; he
had to shout on account of the noise, which was

less embarrassing than speaking in the midst of
complete silence would have been ; you cannot
very well falter when you are talking at the top
of your voice. Arnold stopped him as soon ashe
could.

Stay and clear up the whole business forme,"
he said as they alighted, having reached
the house.

They were soon snugly seated in the diningroom,
and secure from interruption Frank told
the story of his connexion with the bookseller
and the bookseller's colleague, as far as he
himself was aware of it. A few carefully put
questions elicited the fact that he knew nothing
about Ursula's real history, and was quite happy
in the supposition that she was an orphan niece
of the sisters Blunsden.

There was an honest confusion about young
Dalton's manner whenever her name was
mentioned that convinced Arnold still more
strongly of the truth of his latest impressions,
making him admit that on this point at least
the lad had developed feelings which deserved
respect.

It was after some clumsy revelation of the
light in which he regarded Miss Lorton, and the
sort of intimacy between them, that Frank added,
blushing very red indeed, " I don't know that I
should have come here and made a clean breast

of it at all, if it hadn't been for her : she put me
up to doing it. I suppose there aren't many
like her : she talks quite differently to what anyone
else does, you know. And it's not all just
talk ; she takes an interest in one. There's something
in her — well, I can't explain it, and I don't
suppose you would see it if I tried."

Arnold turned aside to put some coals on the
fire. Somehow or other he managed to drop a
considerable portion of the shovel's contents onto
the carpet, and could not reply till he had
removed the traces of this misfortune.

Now, Frank, I'm going to ask you an odd
sort of question," he said at last, when the
operation was completed. " Did Miss Lorton
ever tell you anything about that ring of hers ?
There, I won't ask you anything more if you'll
answer that."

Frank did not look very much surprised.
Normally his character was not emotional, and
he had been having such a surfeit of surprises
lately that one more or less made very little
difference to him.

Yes ; I asked her once if she could remember
anything before she went to live with the Miss
Blunsdens, and then she showed me the ring,
and said that it had belonged to her mother, but
that she knew hardly anything about her. I
can't remember much about it, except that she

didn't seem to want me to go on, it seemed to
bother her ; so I left off."

Then they began to discuss the future. '' Try
Texas for a time " was Frank's own prescription
for himself ; his brother was getting on out there
pretty well after a hard struggle, and Mr. Dalton
had been hinting the possibility for his remaining
son of finding a new hemisphere for Lis talents
also.

Arnold refrained from expressing an opinion.
He knew nothing of new countries, he said, or
the sort of men who made desirable colonists.
He promised, however, to do all in his power to
help the other, whichever side of the Atlantic he
should choose.

Their colloquy ended, Frank departed, accoutred
in an ample weather-proof overall, while
his host reflected with satisfaction that he had
never been less glad to get rid of him.

Arnold stood for a few moments in front of
the warm blaze, rubbing his hands not so much
because they were cold as for keen delight at
finding how mistaken he had been in his blind,
one-sided judgment of his lady. Lorton had
given her the ring ; Lorton was the writer of
that anonymous letter, the accusations in which
had all along been incredible to its reader. He
had never really believed those lies against her ;
poor child ! What a father for any daughter

to have ! Truly lie needed all the love that
others could bestow to make it up to her.

But Mr. Lorton's existence scarcely troubled
him just then : if money was all he wanted,
money he should have to go away and cease to
trouble his daughter's proper guardians farther.
Doubtless she herself knew nothing; of his importunity
or him ; Joanna would have kept her
from that. But yet she might discover the
secret by some untoward accident. Lorton was
in London ; that was a good sign. For the
present Ursula must be free — but for how long
would she remain so ? The thought checked her
lover in his ecstasy. He resolved to go to Burn-port
the first thing on the next day, excusing
his precipitation on the plea of concerting measures
with Joanna Blunsden to get her persecutor
out of the country.

Throwing off his brooding fit with a laugh, he
first yawned, then had a good stretch, and finally
sauntered out, his mind infinitely lightened of
anxiety, to see if any papers had been left for
him on the library table during his absence.

There were several letters ; but he only read
one, picking it out from the rest after a brief
examination of the post-mark. As he read, the
hopeful look faded from his countenance, and
with a cry of dismay he began to search feverishly
for a railway guide. His fingers trembled

SO that lie could scarcely make use of it when
found. At last ! There was just time to catch
a slow train to Copesbury, where, with the usual
admirable arrangement, he would have to wait an
hour before the Burnport Express arrived. He
must go at once ; tomorrow would be too late.
Oh that he had known of the letter sooner I
Even now he might miss getting to his destination
that night.

Had not Gibbins been one amono^ a thousand,
or had not the railway traffic been hindered by
the snow to some extent, these dismal forebodings
might have been fulfilled. That experienced
retainer's behaviour on the present occasion, however,
amply justified the motto which history, so
long as his fame endures, will couple with his
name. Convinced that his credit as one who in
every emergency might be " rested upon " was at
stake, he was no sooner aware of the nature of
the assistance required of him than, plunging
forth bareheaded into the rough scrimmage of the
elements, he charged recklessly across the stable-yard,
dragged the groom from a pile of hay where
he was reposing, shouted to him to harness the
black cob in the fraction of a trice, and got the
gig out of the coach-house with his own hands.
Then he shot back again into the house, bawled
out to Mrs. Marchpane to have the master's bag
ready, and provided with necessaries, seized his

VOL. III. p

coat, list, gloves, and whip — all wliicli paraphernalia
formed part of the severely useful furniture
of his secluded cell — and emerged upon the hall intime
to open the door as the gig made its appearance,
the sedateness of his demeanour disposing
at once of the least suspicion in the minds of
others that he had been in any particular bustle.
He even went so far as to remark, in the
minute which passed before Arnold came out :

The way that 'ere 'harness is putt on looks
to me downright slovenly : I tell you what it
is, young shaver, you've bin a-hurryin' over it
shameful."

The boy at the horse's head protested his
innocence, but with no effect except to convert
his patron's displeasure into a general prognostication
of woe for the entire generation of boys to
which this particular individual belonged.

'' Talk o' cheek ! " observed the bailiff, mildly
indignant that his subordinate should have offered
to defend himself ; " why, in my young days wee
didn't know what the word meant."

This was strictly true, — almost too strictly,
perhaps ; for if folks of the earlier generation
thus alluded to were ignorant of the word, they
knew the thing; well enough to evince no mean
aptitude for its practical application.

Cheek what don't blush to contradict one
straight to one's face can't 'spect to enjoy the

privileges of a free country, leastways not in a
menial it can't. If you must cheek someone,
cheek your ekals, — or your inferiors, if you've
got any. The more lower down you are the
more people you've got to mind not to cheek.
But there, you ain't fit for a free country, you
ain't ; what you want is 'American independence.
You'll have to emigrate to 'America, my fine
feller, 'cos nobody ain't nobody's better over
there ; everybody being worse off than everybody
else, and patronising of each other all round,
like. Waiting' for you, sir," and Gibbins got into
his seat, holding the apron open for Arnold.

They set out in the teeth of the gale, the snow
making their faces smart, in spite of Arnold's
desperate efforts to frustrate it with a monstrous
erection of o;mg;ham and whalebone. Manoeuvring
this parachute so as to prevent the wind from
getting round its corners, in which case it would
have probably involved them in its wreck, was
an occupation sufficient to absorb the whole of
any man's attention for a three-mile drive.
Arnold's arms ached as much as if he had been
dangling at the fao; end of a balloon for the last
half-hour when they reached the station yard at
Burfield, and he tumbled down from his perch,
hot and exhausted.

He hardly knew how they had managed to get
there at all: the cob had settled down to his

P 2

work gallantly, though it was plain by the way
in which he shook his ears that the job was as
little to his equine taste as it would have been to
that of any animated creature but a hedgehog.
Gibbins disdainfully declined to see any merit in
his own performance, averring that he could have
done it blindfold. He knocked off with the butt-end
of his whip the white breast-plate encrusted
on his coat, turned on his homeward journey, and
with the wind well in his back was soon lost to
view.

Trains were late and stoppages frequent on
the line, the consequence being that it was too
late when Arnold arrived at Burnport for him
to call on Miss Joanna before the next morning.
A sleepless night followed. He rose and
dressed himself by candle-light, descending to
the cold, deserted coffee-room to find a draggled
chamber-maid going to sleep over an abortive
attempt to light the fire.

Not without considerable difficulty he hired
a messenger to go to East Rise bearing a note to
inform Joanna of his arrival, and begging her to
be ready for him shortly before nine. He returned
to the coffee-room and tried to take some breakfast,
but it was useless ; a strip of leathery toast
and half a cup of over-drawn tea was all he could
manage. There was a good deal of time to begot
through before he could start. The messenger

returned with the verbal intelligence that it was
all right," and he supposed it to mean that he
was expected at the time mentioned. He went
to the reading-room, and sat there with his
watch in his hand. Its hands seemed to standstill,
and every now and then he held it to his
ear to persuade himself that this was not actually
the fact.

At first the intervals at which he did so were
very short ; then they grew longer — longer, till
he roused himself from a dreamy stupor to find
that he had already overstayed his time by some
minutes.

A blank, — and he was holding Joanna's hand,
and looking into her eyes.

"Aunt Joan."

"Arnold."

So they stood, neither of them speaking for a
moment.

"It is the eleventh hour, and we can do
nothing — absolutely nothing but share our
sorrow. I never gave you up : thank God
you have come at last."

Tears were in her eyes ; but they were not
tears of bitterness ; she dried them, smiling
calmly.

Patient soul ! there are many more in the
world like yours, fashioned by suffering after the
same great Model. Many who every day and

all clay long are living but to conform to that
standard, to be counted as sheep for the slaughter ;
and to whom, when they are looking for nothing
in return — not even that reward of other-worldliness
on which some would ftiin busy themselves
joy comes cleaving through the heavens in
answer to their faith, scattering sorrow with a
gladness all the sweeter because it is so late.

But a numbing paralysis seemed to be creeping
over the companion by her side ; his hair
stirred upon his head, as though some ghostly
breath were passing over it ; there was a chilling
dampness on his brow ; his very heart grew
faint, and slackened its beat under his panic
torpor. Was this horrible fatalism really true
after all, then ? Nothing to be gained for goodby
fighting : nothing to be done but submit to
evil ? Not so : it was indeed the eleventh hour ;
but what of that ? Alas love to return empty,
robbed of its spoils because so far it had not
taken them ? They should see.

'' Let me explain why I left you," he cried
thickly ; *' have wee time ? "

There was plenty, Joanna said ; so they sat
down, and he recounted to her as concisely as he
could the history of the ring, tracing it from the
time when his mother, warned of her approaching
death, placed it in its secret receptacle to its
reappearance on Ursula's finger, and concluding

with a sketch of his movements since leaving
Burnport, sufficient to account for his delay in
replying to Joanna's letter.

His friend was much perturbed by this fresh
evidence of Lorton's ingrained villainy. " The
poor child must be told before she goes," said
she, half rising as though to carry out her words
forthwith.

He motioned her back quietly.

No," he replied with gentle determination ;
"it is the only condition I make, and I entreat
you to observe it : when she learns the truth,
let it be from me."

But is she to go on innocently conniving at
her father's crime ? "

Why not ? It cannot matter so long as she
is not made to share his guilt."

Joanna knit her brows thoughtfully.

No," she returned, yielding that point but
advancing another, " it hasn't done any harm for
her to have it up to now, that is quite true ; but
would it be honourable to let her keep anything
which symbolises to others a mutual understanding
between you before that understanding
exists ? "

My answer is the same as it was to your
other objection," he pleaded ; " whatever her
possession of the ring symbolises now it symbolised
before."

'' Ah, but your misunderstanding made things
seem more complicated then : you thought that
there were circumstances which obliged you to
hold your tongue, and so you were right in
doing; so."

Well, are there no such circumstances still ?
Were I to see her now in order to add to her
grief, how could I avoid telling her the whole
truth, — not merely a trivial fraction of it ? An
unchivalrous way of taking advantage of her
forlorn situation."

He spoke vehemently. Joanna followed her
inclination to trust him, and began to waver.

She must not be disturbed now by anyone,
or she will break down altogether ; and I quite
understand that it will be better for you to tell
her than for anyone else. And yet suppose her
father opens her eyes : he has no reason to dread
the consequences, as far as I can see. There are
no bounds to his refined brutality. What are
we to do ? " Clasping her hands the speaker
lapsed into silence. Had her brain been ever so
fertile of expedients it could scarcely have made
satisfactory provision for all the contingencies
which beset this problem.

Strenuously controlling his ideas Arnold considered
the state of affairs : Ursula upon the
point of leaving all that she held dear, — or, at
least, that held her dear, — her mind intent upon

but one single aim, the duty of ministering to
her miserable father ; that father utterly callous
to his daughter's suffering, — perhaps even enjoying
it, if Aunt Joan's opinion of him was
correct, — and ready to turn the ring with reckless
impunity to any profitable account ; the
wrong of shaking Ursula's determination or
needlessly grieving her spirit by fresh disclosures
; the equal wrong, as it seemed, of
letting the moment slip when these disclosures,
or one of them, might be most tenderly made ;
of giving the maiden up without a word of
comfort, without a hint of warning, to all the
unutterable torture which a ruffian such as
Lorton was sure to inflict ; the agonising impossibility
of obtruding himself upon her at this
crisis ; the no less painful certainty that she
would misconstrue his absence if he allowed
anyone else — even Aunt Joan — to break to her
the contemptible fact of her father's deliberate
insult to her modesty.

This last was the most honourable course to
take, however : he took it, bitterly recalling
Paston's prophetic caution against moral suicide.

It is no use," he thought, " I cannot help
myself."

'you must tell her," he said presently, addressing
Joanna ; " she could have no gentler
ambassador to announce misfortune than the

only being in the world who is worthy of her
love."

His lips trembled as he closed them, but his
look was fixed steadily on the woman before him.

The face with its deathly pallor, the tinted
nostrils, the filming eyes, all betokened so
terribly the man's starvation for lack of love
that Joanna's mind was made up in an instant :
she refused point blank to act upon his suggestion.


No," she said decisively ; " better to take
the chance of what may happen than do such
an injury to you both. Don't you see, you
foolish fellow, that it would be just as bad for
Ursula as for you if I were to tell her only
half the story ? When she gives up the ring
it must be into your own hands, that her grief
at discovering the truth about it may be at
once turned into the joy of rightful ownership.

At least, that is supposing but really it is

very annoying having nothing but suppositions
to go on."

She paused to blow her nose, and then proceeded
:

*now, you know, Tm thinking entirely and
solely of her in all this. As for you, another
occasion must be found — soon found, mind —
when she can be honourably rescued. The
truth must be told her as a whole, not in your

precious instalments. Why, it would come out
much more like falsehood than truth that way.
No," and Aunt Joan tried to make a great
show of virtuous indignation ; " I'm not going
to say to the poor darling, ' Mr. Eobur has come
for his property, my love, and would be much
obliged if you could find it convenient to part
with it before he loses sight of you ; ' you
needn't think it."

Oh, most inconsistent person ! An impressive
warning, truly, to set before this young man
of the scandalous double-dealing to be anticipated
in encounters with thy sex !

Arnold, however, with the hare-brained impetuosity
of youth, took little heed of the way
in which his friend had veered round from her
original opinion : he clutched eagerly at the new
hope which her change gave him, letting everything
else go to the winds.

Thank you," he said, as he leaned forward
to take her hand. " But indeed I don't mean
to let her out of my sight at alL AVhat is to be
their address in London ? "

She gave him a number in an obscure East
End street, and he noted it down carefully.

Remember that their lodgings have been
taken in the name of Edwards — Mr. and Miss
Edwards. For more than half his life he has
been known by that name chiefly."

Arnold made a note of that also, and then
rose.

The mid-day train ? " he asked, and receiving
an affirmative reply, " I shall go up by it too,
keeping out of sight unless there is any need for
my interference," he added.

Joanna smiled approvingly.

God bless you, dear; you will conquer yet."

She followed him to the door, where he turned,
with one hand on the handle, to bid her farewell.
A passionate impulse came over him : could his
dead mother have been much more to him than
this woman had made herself? In a moment
his lips were pressed to her wrinkled forehead,
and his arms round her.

Be comforted," he said, loosing his hold.

She leaned on a high-backed chair, and folded
her hands.

I will, I will : yes, even to-day, which has
been threatening with evil all these years, has its
store of happiness in proportion to its pain."

It certainly was a relief to Joanna that her
benevolent sister was out of the way. What
with the sudden violence of the weather, and
her intense mental agitation. Miss Blunsden was
suffering from one of her " attacks." She was,
like a female Pope, a prisoner in her small
Vatican up-stairs. It was a wise precaution on
her part ; and between her orisons and her

bottles of " light medicine " the clay promised
to pass over her reverend pate with tolerable
smoothness.

Half-past ten," said Aunt Joan, as the clock
struck in the little hall ; " I shall have a clear
hour with my dear child ; her luggage has gone
up to the station already."

Something for you," and Arnold handed hera
note out of the letter-box.

Joanna opened it hastily, then turned white.
Arnold thought she would faint ; but she recovered
herself.

Read it," she moaned.

He picked the scrap of paper up from where
it had fluttered, and with a beating heart read
the single pencilled line which it contained.

We could not bear the parting, dearest ;
have taken an earlier train. Ever your own

u. ir

CHAPTER XT.

OUTSIDE THE STATION.

'' One whose brute-feeling ne'er aspires
Beyond his own more brute desires.
Such tools the tempter ever needs
To do the savages of deeds.
For them no vision terrors daunt,
Their nights no fancied spectres haunt ;
One fear with them, of all most base,
The fear of death, — alone finds place," — Marmion.

Bidding old Time reverse his waning sand-glass
for the space of some four-and-twenty hours — a
behest which the sullen tyrant must needs obey
from such as rule the destinies of men — we
divide on wings of ubiquitous fiction the snow-laden
air, and settle reluctantly among the
belching chimney-pots of Stepney.

The new lodger had taken possession of his
apartments. His daughter was expected to
arrive from her situation in the country on the
following day, and the fond father chafed irritably
to think that he should be kept waiting
even so short a time before his domestic g-loom
could be brightened by her companionship. At

least, that is what he told the landlady, who
carried on a modest business in fuel, — to which,
in the summer months, was added ginger-beer,
and liberally retailed the information gratis to
all her habitual customers that afternoon along
with the more expensive wares which they came
to purchase.

How had Mr. Lorton been spending the last
few days ? A detailed account of his employments
during the interval which separates us
from our last glimpse of him would be unpleasant,
so we take leave to skip it, merely observing
in a general way that he had been taking his
pleasure like the man of fashion he aspired (with
filial assistance) some day to become.

But he had been spending something else
besides time. His money, with the exception of
some small change — very small change indeed —
had all been dissipated by this time : it would
not do to forget that. Ursula would soon fill
his pockets again, to be sure, and keep them
filled ; but meanwhile he must live, and she
would bring nothing with her, he knew. Young
Robur was not hooked yet, curse him. Delay
was dangerous : the fish had been nibbliuor at
the bait, and saw what it concealed. But an
expert angler was not to be foiled thus : he
would examine his tackle to insure himself against
accidents.

The illustration was apt enough, but how was
Lorton to apply it in his own case ? The answer
to this question was com23resse(l significantly into
the dissyllable, " Paston ! "

Yes, there was nothing to be said against it :
the doctor must be pumped on the subject of his
friend's present state of mind and plans for the
future.

The anxious parent did not know where to
find his man, but there was no great difficulty in
obtaining the use of a directory for that purpose,
and in the course of the evening he presented
himself before the house in Wimpole Street.

Snugger than Stepney," he mused while he
waited to be admitted ; " hem, yes, I think this
neighbourhood would suit me very nicely during
the season ; must see about it when I've settled
the girl."

Perhaps he was a little rash to projDosc risking
a continued residence in England in this way,
though his absence had been a long; one. Still,
living in London had not been attended with
any bad consequences to him hitherto, and the
instinct which attracted him to any social centre
was not nearly so antagonistic to prudence as
might have been supposed.

Dr. Paston was at dinner. On being informed
of the gentleman's name he sent word that he
was free to wait, if he was so disposed.

The visitor was ushered into a sombre anteroom,
where a single jet of gas was burning in
dismal despair of ever being of the least use
alone to anyone to do anything by.

Doesn't even ask me to join him," thought
the visitor moodily; "British hospitality gone
the way of most other British monopolies."

Lorton was kept brooding over his cheerless
meditations for fully half-an-hour, and was
almost frantic when the servant appeared to
announce that' Mr. Paston had finished dinner,
and would be happy to receive him in the next
room.

Inwardly fuming, he complied with this formal
invitation.

The doctor was lolling comfortably in an armchair
with his back to the door by which his
visitor entered.

That frame of mind won't last very long,"
the latter promised himself as he announced his
presence by a cough.

Mr. Edwards ? " and Paston wheeled round
'to face him. " It's an age since we met, isn't
it ? And how changed you are ! Is it care that
has dulled your erstwhile glowing cheek, and
thinned your flowing locks (you surely used to
wear a beard) ; or to what cause may we attribute
these sad ravages ? "

The razor is in great measure responsible for

VOL. III. Q

the last alteration," replied the victim of this
sally somewhat testily ; " and as to the other
which you are good enough to mention, I take
it as a piece of complimentary exaggeration on
your part to say that I was ever much given
to ' glowing ' — except, perhaps, in the terms in
which I may at one time and another have
advertised my clients' productions."

He was annoyed to see that Paston intended
to take no notice of their last encounter if he
could help it.

Well, I trust that your natural force in that
respect at least remains unabated," remarked the
doctor drily. "You have deserted the Tuba, I
hear ; but probably you have found a more
lucrative post elsewhere. Why you should
honour this house with your presence, however,
I don't know. We do our own advertising here,
and can't help you on that score. To come to
the point, what do you want ? " he added bluntly.

Lorton was in a corner ; there was no particular
harm to be done by telling the truth. Paston
might be his most determined enemy ; but he
was muzzled as effectively as any of them, and
could only show his teeth, not use them.

Ursula's father took a chair unbidden, and
broke into a grating laugh.

What do I want ? " he repeated, screening
the light of the lamp from his face with his

hand, and peering under it at the other ; " I want
my rights ; I want my daughter s rights. Where
is your friend Robur ? Does he mean to abscond
and leave us in the lurch — me and my girl ?
Come, Paston, won't you exert your influence to
make him act on the square, and abide by his
pledges ? "

'rit's a curious fact," murmured the object of
this touching appeal, "and may strike you as
somewhat wildly irrelevant, Mr. Edwards, but I
am thinking of turning an honest penny in a
quiet way outside my profession. Between ourselves,"
he went on, closing his eyes, 'the
temptation of placing the Criminal Investigation
Department in communication with one whose
disappearance some years ago was universally
deplored is getting too strong to be resisted.
His friends in and out of the Department have
not forgotten him, and are still prepared to pay
down a really handsome sum, without grumbling,
in return for information which may lead to his
capture. Give me your advice, there's a good
creature."

Lorton laughed again, — a little more uneasily
this time. In the mouth of Robur or "the
Blunsden woman " this would have been an idle
threat ; but there was less to deter Paston from
meaning what he said.

These hypothetical cases are always interest

2

iDg," was the visitor's sneering rejoinder. " I
should think twice before I tried to ruin a man's
life just because he got into bad company a
quarter of a century ago, before he was old
enough to know better."

Well, I can't work with your hypothesis, at
any rate ; so we'll drop ambiguities, as you wish
it." The speaker straightened his back, uncrossed
his legs, and glared at his opponent.
How about ruining a woman's life — two women's
lives, if not more ? Tell me that."

His sudden change to a tone of fierce aggression
took Lorton somewhat aback.

A groundless charge," he stammered; 'you
couldn't substantiate it if you tried. Would
you convict a man unheard on the sole testimony
of a hysterical old maid ? "

The doctor started to his feet.

Look here," he said, " do Miss Joanna
Blunsden the injury of alluding to her again
with those lying lips of yours, and you'll be a
candidate for a casualty ward. Keep a civil
tongue in your head, and I'll give you a fair
hearing."

This was all that the other desired. His foe
was not so formidable, after all. The simplicity
with which he offered our diplomatist full facilities
for executing his mission was positively amusing.
Paston had only to be got to talk, and Eobur's

whereabouts, to say nothing of his projects,
would soon ooze out.

With a clever assumption of ingenuousness,
Lorton proceeded to enlarge upon the cruelty of
the suspicions which had already dogged him
through life, preventing him, as he solemnly
declared, from ever settling down to an honest
livelihood.

"You yourself," he whined, 'when I come
here to-night on my poor girl's errand, accuse me
of sacrificing her interest to my own. Under the
circumstances you can hardly be surprised that
a hungry and penniless man should say rather
more than he means."

Hungry are you ? " said Paston, cruelly
ignoring the hint ; " that's bad : always eat a
good dinner ; I invariably prescribe it to highly-strung,
nervous constitutions like yours. Pray
don't give up the pleasures of the table to call
on me another time."

He did not altogether believe in his visitor's
lugubriousness.

*' Hadn't you better go on at once to explain
the errand you mentioned ? " he enquired gravely,
resuming his seat.

*' What is the use, if you don't believe anything
I say ? " complained the other. " However,
you would not, as a man of honour, use your
knowledge to hurt an innocent girl ; so I will

tell you what I mean. Perhaps you're not aware
that she is wearing an engagement-ring which
pledges — virtually pledges — her to your friend,
and him to her ? "

He leaned with his elbow upon the table, and
again shaded his eyes for another scrutiny of the
doctor's face.

Paston was troubled, but took care not to
show it. He was determined to serve his friend's
interests to the utmost, though the best way to
accomplish this was not clear to him at present.
Also he was actuated by an intense feeling of
pity and admiration for Ursula and the woman
who had helped so much to make her what she
was.

Therefore he held his peace, bottling his wrathful
disgust at having to endure this man's society.
It was purely a matter of policy, he thought, and
secretly longed that the interview might not
terminate without some excuse for applying a
physical argument.

There was a pause during which each was
considering how to get what he wanted out of
the other. Both were equally upon the defensive
now ; one for his friend, the other for himself.
In such cases that man has the advantage
who has broken his fast most recently. Paston
closed his eyes placidly, waiting for the other to
interrupt the deadlock.

Grinding his teeth with suppressed rage the
persecuted widower fired a random shot :

'* Silence gives assent as well as consent, I
suppose. Well, she's coining up to town tomorrow
to look for her young man."

It was a mistake. The enemy was not slow
to profit by this warning of the tactics which
were to be used against him.

That seems to me a poor move on your
part, if you'll excuse my saying so," he rejoined
blandly. " Was it wise to throw over young
Dalton in such a hurry ? Suppose my friend
has cooled down, what will you do then ? "

He was beginning to see the lie of the land,
and thought he would try a little dissimulation
on his own account.

Lorton made a gesture of incredulity.

*' She's sweet enough on him, and he'll be as
keen as ever when he knows that. When a girl
comes after a man herself it's rather difficult to
get out of the mess, and a landowner can't cut
and run like some more independent people, you
know."

Don't get hypothetical again," remonstrated
the doctor ; " it's confusing to you as well as tome.
Forgive me if I am obtuse, but I can't help
doubting whether the matter presents itself to
the other interested parties in quite the same
light as it does to your unprejudiced paternal

mind. My friend, for instance, might feel considerably
more delicacy about approaching pout
daughter now that she enjoys your valuable
protection than when he used to meet her down
at Burnport. He might be even perverse enough
to imagine that it was more considerate not to
put himself in her way at all in the present tide
of her good fortune. He might not persevere in
his attentions openly unless she gave him some
assurance that they were not humiliating to her
in her new position ; and do you think she is
prepared to give him the encouragement of her
own accord ? "

Psha ! " scoffed her father, " she is my
daughter, my dear sir ; she is no fool. And do
you fancy I cannot make her amenable to my
wishes ? Really, doctor, — ha, ha — you must be
joking. Is her wearing that ring no encouragement
? "

It hasn't been so yet, and won't be, till you
tell her the truth about it." Paston did not in
the least comprehend how the ring had come
to Ursula, but he saw immediately his remark
was out of his mouth that its aim had been
reached.

Lorton had counted upon the doctor's complete
knowledge of his various achievements. Information
had reached him from Mr. Rock that his
share in the theft, as well as in the matter of

Frank Dalton, had been discovered ; and his
brain, heated by the excesses of the last few-days,
rushed to the conclusion that there was
nothing left to conceal. He was not startled,
therefore, to hear Paston hint at the way in
which he had tricked Joanna Blunsden into
receiving stolen property.

'' That's just what I mean to do," he replied
doggedly ; " I'm going to tell her all about it,
and then we shall see what she'll do."

Yes, that is something interesting to look
forward to," assented his involuntary entertainer
with irritating calmness. " I suppose there is
only one thing we may count upon her not
doing," he resumed after a moment's apparent
cogitation ; " she will not be likely ever to look
her lover in the face again."

'' Oh, she'll come round after a bit, trust her ; "
and the man assumed a blustering tone. " Women
have only got to see that a thing must be done,
and they drop their squeamishness fast enough.
Screw 'em up to the proper pitch, sir, and they
don't mind what they go through. I didn't
know her mother for nothing ; and she was a
good average sample of a self-willed prude, I can
tell you."

It may be as you say, Mr. Lorton ; but, to
tell you the truth, you don't impress me with
the idea that you are any better posted up in

the thouojlits and motives of a food woman than
you seem to be in the manners of a gentleman.
Do you know, you remind me amusingly of an
American lady over here on a visit, whom I met
the other day. Her husband had remained at
home at Chicago, and she began talking to me
about his business. ' He's a pork-packer,' she
said, adding innocently for my edification, ' what
you call a pro-dtcce merchant in the old country,
you know.' An odd notion, wasn't it ? " and the
doctor chuckled.

The widower was biting his nails nervously ;
he did not despair of triumphing over the difficulties
which might be raised by his daughter's
contumacy. But it would take 'time, and he was
at the end of his resources. Evidently his position
was not so secure as it had seemed. Abject
misery was the best guise to adopt, he thought ;
but his dejection was not wholly feigned as he
lifted up his voice in deprecation of the unjust
resentment which his conduct was innocently
causing.

Every one is set against me," he complained,
and why ? Is it so very unnatural for a man
to want to see something of his own child when
she has been abducted from his house, and
brought up out of his reach ? Not that I say
anything against the way in which she has been
kept ; it's most kind and charitable, I'm sure.

And perhaps when my home circle was first
broken up I didn't feel it as I ought to have
done. But that's neither here nor there : I do
feel the want of my girl now. It's my one
inducement to lead an honest life that you're
taking away from me when you refuse to let me
have her. Why, she offered to come of her own
free will — I can show you her letter ; don't say
I forced her."

The doctor had risen during; this harangue, and
was squaring his shoulders against the high
chimney-piece, resting one foot on the fender.
He gazed down with a cold interest at the creature
before him. Possibly his feelings would
have been raised to a higher temperature, had the
man's venomous breath been extinct, and Paston
invited to lecture a class on what was left.

What a shockingly bad liar you are ! " he
exclaimed contemptuously; "you are always
contradicting yourself. What has your poor
child done that you should smirch her fair young
life with your loathsome contact ? You would
cheerfully see her spirit broken and her health
decayed — and even something worse than either,
I do not doubt — if you could grind money out of
the process. Pity you ! — well, yes, I do, though
you cannot expect it ; for some day you will die,
a thought that never seems to occur to you
and such as you. Now I tell you one thing,

your daughter will starve before she will be made
the excuse for asking Robur, or any one else, to
support you. You were a fool not to see that
before you undertook to provide for two mouths
instead of one. Now it is too late : your only
chance of seeing her married, and getting your
freedom again, lies in finding a respectable employment,
and trying to make up for some small
part of the mischief you have done."

An idea came into Lorton's head : try a
dramatic situation !

Help me to do so, doctor," he cried, springing
up, and trying to grasp Paston's hand.

That gentleman, however, promptly made himself
inaccessible to this unexpected overture by
putting both his hands in his pockets.

The other fell back slightly, abashed by this
freezing indifference.

Paston eyed him narrowly.

I thought it would come to that sooner or
later, and it has come later. Well, how much
do you want me to help you with ? " he enquired
with brusque scorn.

The front-door bell rang while Lorton was
considering.

Oh come, be quick," said the doctor ; " I'm
wanted."

Thus pressed, his visitor had no time for
elaborate excuses.

A fiver would set me straight," lie said
hesitatingly.

Paston left the room without replying, and
the crestfallen mendicant was left alone to
ruminate on his folly in not having extorted
double the amount.

The man of business reappeared in his coat
and hat.

Now," he observed, extending a clean banknote
to the man of pleasure, " I dare say you
may be surprised at my weakness in giving you
money. But it's intended for your daughter, not
for you. Of course, 1 am not such an idiot as
to think that she will get it. No matter ; I can
do no more, and I'm not going to do less. If
you spend it all upon yourself, the blame be
upon your head : perhaps some driblet of it may
reach her. Anyhow, remember this ; if you ever
want any more from me, you must bring me
satisfactory proof that she has had the benefit of
that piece of paper. Hansom, hi ! "

They were out on the door-step, the door was
closed behind them, and the doctor bounded into
a cab.

Curse the snow ! "

Whew ! how the white sheet turned and
twisted, and drifted wildly to and fro, in its
efforts to lie spread evenly over everything alike,
if the wind would but let it. That was exactly

what the wind would not do, however, blowing
it down from roofs and steeples into the streets
and squares below : then, having got it there, it
tossed the flaky mass about in mad helter-skelter
fashion, giving it no rest till every nook was
piled with quivering and sullied shreds. But
the patient snow kept falling, and quietly draped
the boisterous havoc with its increasing folds.
At last the wind could do no more to keep the
ground clear, and betook itself with many an
empty parting growl of menace to the higher
regions, where there was rare sport for it still
(ho, ho !) in defending the summits of churches,
public buildings, and all lofty erections from the
intruder's feathery encroachments. Gradually
even these were seized and covered, however ;
and when the very telegraph-wires hung heavy
with the insidious enemy's long white lines, the
poor wind itself, uttering a last feeble wail of
protest, was speedily buried alive.

Curse the snow ! " repeated Lorton to himself,
treading it savagely under his cruel heel ashe
trudged along. He had no umbrella, and
only wore his ordinary coarse tweed jacket. It
was not surprising, therefore, that he should
shiver every now and then : exercise should
have warmed him, but it did not ; his shivering
fits continued.

A touch of ague," he muttered querulously :

•' haven't had such a thing since the first winter
after I came back. Gad, I must try to stave it
off this time ; must get some quinine tomorrow."

He went into the next public-house he passed,
and called for a plentiful allowance of raw spirit.
The beverage had a soothing, not to say exhilarating
effect, and he bethought him that he
had not dined or supped that evening. He
ordered a plate of cold meat, and some bread
and cheese, changing Paston's note to pay for it.
The bar was warm and cheerful, the landlord
argumentative, and the liquor good. Lorton
took his time over the meal, sitting a good while
longer after it was over to imbibe the mingled
grog and eloquence of the house. Thus it was
midnight before he turned, in a state of temporary
cheerfulness, into the street where his
lodgings were situated.

It was very dark, and even if it had not been,
the snow would have made it difficult to see
anything a short distance off.

He did not, however, feel the inconvenience of
this quite so much as another wanderer who
happened at this identical moment to be tending
in the same direction.

Anathematising the weather freely under his
breath, which was rather short, this person
quickened his pace, and following Lorton up his
doorstep squeezed past him into the passage.

'' Hullo ! What the—"

Didn't you expect me ? " interrupted the
other panting ; " but of course you didn't : how
could you ? "

He removed a soft, high-crowned felt hat to
shake off the snow which gave it something of
the appearance of a miniature alp, revealing by
this act the curiously-carved figure-head appertaining
to Hiram Rock, bookseller.

His old friend and associate led the way into
the little parlour and closed the door.

Why have you tracked me here ? " he
demanded, stifling an oath.

Mr. Rock made an ineffectual attempt to
warm his hands at the dead embers in the
grate before replying :

You see, my boy, things haven't been going
quite smoothly with me since you left me to
bear the brunt of it all alone ; so I concluded
to try a change. Copesbury is a dull place fora
man like me to bury himself in all the year
round. We old travellers are afraid of getting
a bit musty unless we can get an occasional rubin
society, eh ? " He gave a strident chuckle,
adding : " I enquired at the old place, and found
you were enjoying yourself like a lord ; so I
thought I'd. come and help you to put in a
convivial time."

I'm sorry you should have had your trouble

for nothing, Mr. Rock ; but I must ask you
to sneak out again by the way you sneaked in.
They probably don't keep a night-porter at your
hotel, and may be getting nervous at your
prolonged absence. Now then, are you going ? "
The voice in which Lorton asked this question
was choked with passion.

No," was his venerable guest's reply, as he
sat down very composedly ; " since you ask me,
I don't intend to expose myself needlessly to
the night air, thank you. As to my reason for
dropping in upon you — shouldn't think you
could have more convenient quarters, by the
way — I don't want to intrude business just
now, it being rather late, as you say ; but you
mustn't run away with the idea that our little
deed of partnership is cancelled yet. It maybe
a dark deed," cried the bookseller in accents
of regret, " but that is all the more reason why
it should be kept so."

He stopped to observe the effect of this
subtlety upon his companion.

However, ' pleasure first ' is my motto,"
he concluded, divesting himself of his streaming
coat.

Lorton tried to steady his feverish brain.
Clearly it would not do to offend his former
colleague, who might, for aught he knew,
possess the means of crushing him without

VOL. III. R

further ado. It seemed hard that he coukl
not iieece others without getting fleeced for it
himself ; but there was no help for it ; at
present he was too muddled to see anything
clearly.

Make yourself at home," he said at last with
a dismal pretence of cordiality. " I — I — you took
me by surprise, and I've been badgered enough
for one day ; we can talk tomorrow."

Of course we can," was the equally frank
response ; " I made sure you wouldn't have
the heart to turn me out in the cold."

He took a flat bottle from his pocket, and
drained the contents.

Now'" said Hiram, smacking his lips, " if
you can give me a bed I should prefer it to
the floor."

Lorton vacantly conducted him up-stairs into
the room which had received its humble preparations
for Ursula.

What ! keeps an extra bedroom for his
friend ! Thoughtfulness like this is touching to
an old man who has roamed about the selfish
world for more than threescore years, and
seldom met with such a mark of forethought.
Between those sheets I shall soon forget all
my cares, rocked in Murphy's arms, as the
poet says."

But in spite of this complimentary ebullition,

there wa>i an enquiring, not .to say suspicious,
look on this face as he parted from bis kind host
for the night.

Lorton coukl not sleep : the soporific effects
of the spirits ceased as soon as his head touched
the pillow, and returning ague prevented him
from throwing off the unwonted anxieties which
were amtadno: his mid. He could not forget
Pastor's warning voice, do what he would.
He tried stopping his ears, but their imperviousness
to every other sound only seemed to make
the doctor's words come back more distinctly
than eve I". " Your daughter will starve before
she will be made the excuse for asking any one
to support you. You were a fool not to see
that before you undertook to provide for two
mouths instead of one." Louder and louder
the words sounded, taking a higher, more importunate
i)ircli at each repetition; till at last
they rose into a jingling screech, causing him
to start convulsively into a sitting posture with
a smothered cry of despair.

It vas true, every bit of it. Clod-witted
idiot that he had been ! He had reckoned upon
Ursula bringing grist to his impoverished mill
in any case, but she could not do so all at once.
Engagements on the stage — where there was a
chance of promotion — were as difficult to get
as endearments elsewhere : and he could not

E 2

waifs. Still less could he afford to do so now
that Rock had turned up to sponge upon him.
In the few hours since he had seen Paston the
necessity of shutting another mouth — a most
insatiable one — had been laid upon him. In
his bodily suffering his mind refused to review
the matter calmly : he altogether missed over
one alternative, — which was indeed the true
one — namely, that the bookseller was solely
speculating upon a contingency at present unrealised.


That misunderstood tradesman had made up
his mind to decline the humiliating terms offered
to him by Robur through Mr. Armitage. The
proposed surveillance was not only galling to
his independent spirit, — it was a check to his
turning any little profits outside his ostensible
business. Now Hiram foresaw much difficulty
in making the needful two ends meet under
these painful circumstances : the vending of miscellaneous
literature without any prospect of
such small pickings as might accrue to him under
cover of that respectable vocation held out
promises far from lucrative. He had therefore
quitted the Boeotian atmosphere of Copesbury,
omitting to mention his purpose to his few
friends and customers there, and found himself
in London, safe from persecution, but empty in
pocket and somewhat undecided upon his next

move. Intuition, however, came to his assistance,
with the result of bringing about a
welcome encounter with the quondam sharer of
his cares and — gains. The juncture turned out
to be a peculiarly lucky one : if Lorton had
nothing to give him at present, he was at least
expecting a financial coup, or what was the
meaning of these extensive preparations ? His
host, too, was evidently afraid of him, and
prepared to buy his silence — not about the past
(they were both in the same plight as to that),
but with respect to some plan to be accomplished
in the immediate future. Rock's cool demeanour
and reticence had secured him against the repulse
which otherwise he must have sustained,
an entrance being thereby effected which he fully
intended should last.

Say nothing, and pick up all I can is the
ticket," he muttered to himself, as he descended
to breakfast.

Lorton did not return his cheery greeting ;
there was an expression on his jaded face which
the observant elder did not remember to have
noticed there the previous night.

What's he at now ? " he wondered ; " if he's
plotting to get rid of me I must counterplot, I
suppose."

Acting upon this sound maxim he took occasion
to grumble out something about an engagement

at the other end of the town, which woukl keep
him from opening the business just then.

But I hope to be back again this evening,"
added he, "and we can have it out comfort y
before bedtime. Deuce take that Robur chap ;
what does he want to lug me out for, a morning
like this, I should like to know ? "

The other paying no apparent attention to his
wilfully misleading remark, Mr. Rock arrayed
himself in walking panoply, and departed ;
making what he could of a meeting with the
garrulous landlady on his way out of the house.

Lorton remained honos as the bookseller had
left him, plunged in a deep and gloomy reverie.
He was not sorry to postpone the business,
whatever it was, which his guest had to tell
him of. For reasons of his own Mr. Rock's
temporary absence was grateful to him ; it was
a godsend. The intruder's excuse for going
signified little ; — what was it ? something about
he had forgotten, had never heard it at all, so
entirely did the thought that his companion was
going possess him. As a matter of fact, he did
not expect that he should ever gaze upon that
disagreeably familiar form again. Difficulties
were accumulating, and he was free to fly : a
hundred sighing voices whispered round him,
urging him to take the step. He would obey,
he would take it.

He was not a fanciful man : — perhaps it was
the ague, — but a superstitious terror had something
to do with his last resolve. What if he
were going to fall seriously ill ! He thought of
the workhouse infirmary, and shuddered : it was
too much for a man of his refined susceptibilities.
But his thoughts did not stop there ; they
hurried him on to depths beyond even those to
which parochial assistance extends. He heard
the tap-tap of the hammer, the swish of the
plane, and, sick and giddy, felt himself already
within the roughly constructed shell. Vainly
he strove to break through the delusion. All
was black now, and the rattle of loose mould
and stones drowned his muffled screams.
Enough ! He could feel the sweat starting out
all over him. He rose panting ; it was settled ;
under a warmer sky he would recover health
and spirits.

Then he considered how he was to get away.
He would meet Ursula ; that was a treat not
to be foregone. Besides, he iriust get that ring
again, and anything else in the way of money
or valuables she might happen to have with
her ; they would be useful to him abroad, and
he had only between four and five pounds in his
pocket. Then he would bring or send her to
their lodgings, making his escape unperceived
before Rock returned.

He could lauo;h now, and did so at the idea
of leavings them both in the larch to mourn his
disappearance. She woakl have to beg for
money to pay off the week's rent anyhow.

Time to start for the station. He was to meet
her at three o'clock by the refreshment-bar. With
cruel deliberation he had appointed that as their
trysting-place ; and now his paternal forethought
cautioned him against hurrying, for fear the train
might have been delayed, and so he might be
disappointed of seeing the girl in this novel
situation.

Curse the snow ! "

Still it descended, an emblem of the angelic
pity that would seek, in spite of all rebuffs, to
shroud men's evil works beneath some garb of
innocence.

But to Lorton it conveyed no such tender
reproof. Keeping his head bent with sullen
obstinacy, and looking to neither side, he made
his way along the slippery streets, dogged by
fleeting shadows. One shape more substantial
than the rest kept him persistently in sight.
Mr. Rock's engagements were not too pressing
to allow of his keeping watch and ward over his
shifty friend. For some way the unconscious
object of pursuit kept well ahead : it was not
until he crossed the teeming thoroughfare opposite
the station, and struck into its precincts that the

spy, uttering an exclamation of chagrin, mended
his pace.

He's going to give me the slip, after all, and
bolt," murmured Mr. Rock plaintively. "If I
can only find out where he takes his ticket for, a
telegram would stop him when he gets there, and
I don't care what they do to me, as long as I can
take it out of him."

The thought of his friend being arrested
directly he stepped out of the train was so
eminently fascinating that he was about to still
further increase his speed, when it was completely
arrested by a strange ominous whizzing,
and a sudden cry so appalling that the little
crowd of foot-passengers involuntarily drew
together, and horses started in a short stampede.

There must have been a great catastrophe,
surely, to occasion this commotion.

But the scene had not changed except in one
slight particular.

Something: hung: in a loose curling mesh from
a pent-house not very far above, a thread in the
rigid web which seemed to net in almost the
whole of that open space : the tension had been
too great for the thread, and it was severed.
What difference did this make to anybody ?

None, probably, by this time ; for there in
the middle of the road, where Lorton had been
crossing the moment before, lay stiffening a

grim unsightly mass on wliicli the flakes fell
sadly.

Who shall say that the life's electric current
was not sundered from its fleshly medium by a
Divine Hand, or that the wire had not that day
been freighted with the late message of a just
Omnipotence, more merciful as well as more
severe than man's puny retaliation '?

But, be the truth what it may, that iniquity
should be punished by iniquity is, happily, not
one of the laws of the universe.

As for the sordid clay within a yard or two of
Ursula's feet, between its departed soul and her
whom her dead father had known so imperfectly,
time infinitely small had set a gulf which only
eternity may bridge.

CHAPTER XII.

INSIDE THE STATION.

"There are tears for the many,
And pleasures for the few ;
But let the world pass on, dear,

There's love for me and you." — Hood.

We left Aunt Joan and Arnold in consternation
at Ursula's unforeseen flight : the last
project for her safety, if not for her deliverance,
had been defeated by the girl herself. What was
to be done ? *

The sight of Joanna's suffering made her companion
restrain any expression of his own grief
and dismay from escaping his lips.

'' 1 will follow her," he said resolutely ; adding
in a voice so low that it was scarcely audible,
Who knows ? I may find her yet."

Joanna was speechless : she only nodded,
motioning to him to lose no time : and without
another word he left her.

On arriving; breathless at the station he found
that the slow train for London had started some

few minutes before. He looked for Ursula's
luggage ; it had gone.

The next train — the one she was to have
travelled by originally — was the mid day express,
which was timed to reach its destination
at three o'clock, not quite half-an-hour after
Ursula would be set down there. Good : possibly
Lorton would not be punctual at the
rendezvous ; or, at any rate, they could be
overtaken and kept in sight.

He went back to the hotel for his bag, deciding
not to show himself again to Joanna. He
could not help her, and perhaps her suspense
would be easier if she fancied he was already on
his way.

The train was still moving along the platform
at the end of its journey when he sprang out,
and looked wildly round for his mistress.

Not a trace of her was to be seen. He enquired
eagerly for her, thereby occasioning much chaffing
comment among the blue-faced porters. One
of them volunteering the information in a surly
tone that he had seen a young lady in the 
a short time back, and farther giving
it as his unqualified opinion that it was " the best
place, too, for them as had any coppers to spend,"
Arnold hurried off distractedly to look there.

He was faint and weary with excitement, and
besides had hardly tasted food that day.

The barmaid eyed him across the counter with
bold curiosity not unmingled with suspicion.

Take your orders, sir ? "

He took up some eatable, the first that came
to hand.

Eh ? yes," he replied, half-unconscious of
what he was about.

She shrugged her shoulders, and put a glass
of sherry and bitters before him, honouring him
the while with another broad stare.

Then she resumed the thread of a conversation
which she had apparently been carrying on
with a party somewhat advanced in years, who
was endeavouring to resuscitate his dilapidated
fascinations by the internal application of a glass
of steaming negus.

Meanwhile Arnold looked round the place.
There was nothing to oruide him in his search,
however. In one corner a bloated woman in
draggled black silk and ostrich feathers was
brushing biscuit-crumbs from her dress with one
hand, while with the other she clinked a spoon
against the tumbler which she had just set down
empty. A child in a gaudy frock a size or so
too large for her sat opposite this voluminous
matron, scraping together with grimy fingers
certain evidences of a stale sponge-cake that
strewed the marble top of the table before her.
Then there were one or two seedy young men in

brown coats and hats, — the latter with brims
more or less broad and fiat, — smoking cigars
cheap enough, but no cheaper than they should
have been, and discussing in a nasal accent some
subject consisting in great measure of a jargon of
unintelligible allusions. Fly-blown notices and
advertisements decorated the walls, relieved at
intervals by flaring and flickering gas-lamps
which made the long rows of bottles at the back
of the bar shine with a dull, fitful glimmer. It
would be hard to say which was most oppressive — •
the pestiferous air of this particularly refreshing
room, or its squalid cheerlessness.

To think that he could have expected to find
Ursula in this dreadful place !

He finished what he was eating, and tried
to catch the barmaid's attention in order to pay
her. But she happened to be engrossed in
reciting; some interesting; narrative to her faded
admirer.

Arnold was obliged to listen, and overheard
the following: fragment :

*' Well, in she comes, as I was saying', a bit
nervous, you know, just for all the world as if I
wasn't good enough for her (don't do that, sir) :
I see she was lookin' for someone ; so I says to
her, ' Will you have anything now, Miss, or wait
till he comes ? * She looks at me surprised :
Has he been here, then ? ' she asks. Lor, you

never see sicli blooming' innocence. * Who dryer
mean?' says I. 'My father,' says she. * He
ain't been here yet,' says I, ' and if I was you I'd
jest step into the waiting' room till 'e does come,
'cos I'll tell him you're there, and 'e can come
and fetch you himself.' "

Is she in there now, my dear ? " enquired the
owner of the fascinations aforesaid.

Come now, what do you ask that for ?" was
his wanton charmer's rejoinder. '' No, she ain't ;
I repose it didn't suit her better than in 'ere : I
see her go outside somewhere jest now. "I've no
patience with them dressmaker' gals as always
dresses that mean and quiet they won't even
wear a bit of coloured ribbon in their 'air, nor
no jewelry, not even a locket round their neck.
Pretty ? oh yes, I repose so. Now don't go
a-pinchin' of me, 'cos I can't abide you, and I
won't allow it."

Arnold paid, and took his departure.

He thought he would go to the cloak-room to
make enquiries there and leave his bag. In
order to accomplish his intention it was necessary
to go outside the station and round a corner of
it. He was in the act of emerging from the
dark entrance into the open space in front, when
there was a sudden dispersion of men and horses
in it, the people on the pavement forming
instinctively into a cowering knot.

A man struck down ! " '' Where ? " " By
what ? "

The meaningless buzz fell unheeded on his
ears, for close in front of him stood motionless
the form of her whom he loved, — motionless but
for an instant. She turned her face — he had
only time to drop all else from his hands, and
receive her swooning in his arms.

A moment's brief sweetness and she had
rallied, turning on him " the star-like sorrows of
immortal eyes " in troubled wonderment.

No one noticed the pair ; they were all intent
upon that other thing.

Arnold gave her his arm, and she clung to it
trembling.

^' There ; " she pointed to the people clustering
in the road, — for they had left the pavement now
" I was waiting for him — he saw me — he was
coming, and — " She could not go on : her
whole frame shuddered, but she was silent.

He took her into the hotel, telling her that
Aunt Joan had sent him, and that she would
wish it. A chambermaid was told off to conduct
Ursula to a private sitting-room, with instructions
to light a fire and attend to her wants
generally.

Then Arnold went to find out what had
actually happened to Lorton.

The weight of the snow had increased the

normal strain upon the telegraph and other wires
that were stretched across the approach to the
railway. One of them had snapped, and striking
against Lorton with frightful force, inflicted
wounds which were almost immediately fatal.
A stretcher was brought, and the police carried
off the body. Arnold first despatched a telegram
to Joanna, bidding her come up to join Ursula at
all costs that evening ; then he went to find out
what arrangements were being made about the
inquest. Through his instrumentality the remains
were identified later by Dr. Paston and Mr.
Bloss, the Editor of the Tuba, as those of Edward
Edwards, Esq., formerly advertising manager
and assistant editor of that prominent journal.

Arnold was back again in time to meet Aunt
Joan at the station shortly before eight. She
was soon in possession of all he had to tell her,
being considerably more affected at his simple
account of how he met Ursula than at the intelligence
of her father's unlooked-for demise. Before
she went to the girl Arnold told her that
he would settle everything connected with the
funeral, if she would consent to take her charge
back to Burnport on the morrow ; and this she
promised to do, pressing his hand gratefully.

When they parted he returned to Paston, resolving
not to inconvenience them by his presence
at the hotel, though the thought of voluntarily

VOL. III. a

declining to remain under the same roof with
Ursula was sufficiently irksome. Still, that was
nothing compared with the deep joy of knowing
that now at last, in his case, too, love had broken
down all barriers (Armitage's words) between
two faithful hearts.

When the doctor came in from a professional
visit he found his friend looking better, in spite
of his long day, than he had seen him since the
time when they used to lounge on " the Backs "
or take a pull up the " Fresher' " river together.
Ah, you're happy now, aren't you ? " observed
Paston, clearing his throat severely to conceal
something uncommonly like a sigh — only that
this serene personage was never heard to sigh.
I begin to think there's nothing like your prescription
for curing the ills, physical and mental,
of mortals. I only wish you could impart the
formula to me. Bless you, I'd make my fortune
in no time out of love-philtres."

"Do you remember that night at Oakleigh
when I asked you to find me a lever for opening
the world-oyster ? " said Arnold.

"Yes, and I thought I had given you one.
Haven't I seen you using it on one or two occasions
since then ? Why, you've even recommended
levers of the same pattern to others of
your friends in my hearing. Don't tell me I had
nothing to do with your getting your chaos of

ideas into some sort of order, Robur; I helped
you when you couldn't see the wood for the
trees ; and are you going to cut me because you
can see your way out without my farther assistance
? "

Certainly not, my dear man ; your lever is
an excellent one, and will do you more credit in
my hands than it has yet done, if I may make a
prophecy. At the same time, you must admit
that a lever isn't much good without a fulcrum,
and as you omitted to supply me with that I
had to look about for one on my own account.
Hitherto this fulcrum of mine has been far from
stable, and so your tool hadn't a fair chance of
proving its capability : the future must decide
whether it or the workman is at fault."

How are you going to make the experiment ?
Why, my dear fellow, I suppose (to drop allegory)
you'll be marrying and ' settling down,' as they
say, next. ' The funeral baked meats,' etcetera ; "
there was a malicious twinkle in the doctor's
eye as he left Arnold to mentally complete the
quotation.

I see what you mean," returned Robur,
smiling at the innocent wickedness of this last
remark : " once married, a man is bound to find
the solution of his difficulties in conjugal union,
or pretend to do so, even if he doesn't. Well,
well ; I intend to give mi love a fairer trial than

S 2

that. A year hence, should the progress which
is begun here dev elope my faculties and insight
as it ought, then I shall seek to marry, — not,
indeed, for the purpose of settling down, but
rather for incitement to farther objects of ambition
than I could reach, or even dream of
reaching, alone."

Ah ; " the doctor allowed the regulation
interval to pass before proceeding : "an unusual
step, but methinks a wise one. Long engagements
are generally a mere matter of pecuniary
necessity, and the shortest of them are regulated
more by the time it takes to provide a trousseau
than that requisite for the lovers to get at a clear
mutual understanding. Some people might say
it was hard on the girl, though."

Not if they knew her," said Kobur, smiling.

CHAPTEE Xii

WHOLESALE BUSINESS

Pray you, no more of this : 'tis like the howling of Irish
wolves against the moon." — As You Like It.

The next day Joanna and Ursula returned to
Burnport. It was agreed that there was no
reason why Ursula should remain for the funeral.
To her father, while he was still living, she had
felt that she owed a debt of duty which even his
heartlessness had not sufficed to cancel; and
the fact of her mother having given him up for
her child's sake made the girl feel that duty all
the more binding. So she had acted according
to a high if somewhat quixotic sense of right in
leaving her dearest friend with the hope of doing
something to purify and elevate her father's life.
But now that the father himself was no more,
now that the slender hope his daughter had
cherished was placed beyond the reach of realisation,
a pretence of affection would have been

mere mockery, and the funeral itself would have
been a trial which Ursula, after the series of
shocks she had lately undergone, was ill-fitted to
endure. So Miss Blunsden with her charge left
town by an early train.

Miss Hilda had been greatly disturbed by the
many commotions of the previous day. The
good lady had found her nerves so sadly discomposed
in the morning that she had retired
into the privacy of her chamber to consume
those light medicines which she always found so
helpful on these occasions, and to meditate on
the vanity of human affairs, the perversity of
the weather, and the obstinacy of her sister and
niece. Had it been possible, Joanna would have
refrained from disturbing her on receiving
Arnold's telegram; but so unusual a proceeding
as the younger sister's sudden departure for the
metropolis, with all the consequences that would
be involved, could not be passed over in silence.
There is no record as to what Miss Blunsden did
or thought when she received the startling
intelligence of Lor ton's death ; but she had
managed to recover considerably when Joanna
and Ursula returned.

They found her seated in the parlour engaged
in giving a finishing touch to the locks that
surrounded St. Guthlac's tonsure ; herself arrayed
in a chaste robe of mourning. Her eyes lighted

on Ursula's face : for a moment sympathy overcame
her dreary and insipid selfishness ; she rose
and kissed the girl with affection, even with
warmth. Joanna, to her own intense surprise,
fancied she saw something very like a tear glisten
in her sister's eye. But it was for a moment
only ; hardly had the Mother Superior given
place to the woman, before the passing warmth
froze again, and the woman was once more
nothing but a Mother Superior. Such ebullitions
of feeling. Miss Hilda was aware, are unbecoming.
She must atone for her weakness.

My dear child, this is a sad blow to us all ;
you especially must strive to endure it with
resignation. And it is the sadder," continued
she — having apparently recalled to mind that
there were doubtful passages in the life of the
late Mr. Lorton — " it is the sadder because your
father was cut off thus suddenly, for aught
we can see, in the midst of "

Hilda, hold your tongue."

It is an astonishing fact, but Miss Hilda
obeyed ; for the time principally because she
was too startled by her sister's assumption of
authority to do anything else. Aunt Joan retired
in triumph with Ursula ; but she was not
absent long. She returned to find Miss Blunder
rehabilitating herself with smelling salts.
Whereupon she sat down and gave that good

lady such a " talking to " as she had never
experienced in her life before, the upshot of
which was that Miss Hilda was never assail
heard to name Mr. Lorton, and submitted completely
in all matters relating to Ursula. For
the first time in all her days she had made
Joanna thoroughly angry, and she did not dare
to do it again. In other respects the little
household returned to their former way of life.

As for Arnold, his time during the next few
months was variously occupied. East London
was a field, where his energies found plenty of
material to expend themselves on. It cannot be
said that he produced any very astonishing
results ; but he felt that such work as he could
get to do called for the careful exercise of his
higher faculties, and his sympathies were keenly
awakened. Something he certainly did towards
brightening the lives of a few families, and here
and there inspiring his friends among the artisans
with higher ideals and clearer principles
than they had known before, and a sounder
knowledge of the facts of life ; and his own
ideas of the life amontr these classes, vaofue and
ill-defined before, received a much clearer shape,
and he felt that his labour was by no means
thrown away. He had gained an insight into
the real wants and needs of these men such
as not very many persons in his own rank of

life possess ; and he had sown seeds which might
some day bring forth fruit. Here then he spent
the greater part of the twelve months of probation
which he had allotted for himself, though
he was not neglectful of his duties at Oakleigh,
such as they were.

As for Mr. Hiram Rock, bookseller, that
worthy vanished completely. Apparently he
was not penniless, for one morning his miscellaneous
library was removed from Copesbury
under the superintendence of a young man
wearing a battered billy-cock very much on one
side of his head, who found time to oo^le an
occasional nursemaid. It was understood that
this young gentleman was the representative of
Messrs. Worm arid Parchment, a noted firm of
second-hand book-vendors in a very grimy
quarter of the metropolis. On being questioned
he averred, with very precarious use of the
letter h, that he " didn't know any think
about the party as sold the books, but wot 'e
did know was, that the governors were waited
for 'em, an' 'e 'aden' got no time to waist
a-jawrin'."

Mr. Rock, it appeared, had taken prompt
measures after his interview with the Canon to
ensure the sale of his mouldy volumes, and had
vanished with the proceeds. The presumption
is that he crossed the Atlantic at an early date.

trusting to his fluency and address to secure
a means of livelihood in America. It is not
unlikely that one of the States has by this time
provided him, under an alias, with board and
lodofingj in return for his services in the oakum
department : as it can hardly be expected that
he developed any fresh inclinations to honesty at
his advanced years. At any rate, no search was
made for him in England, as Lorton's connexion
with him made it impossible for Arnold to
prosecute. The books were removed to commodious
quarters in London ; a new occupant
was found for the shop where Mr. Rock had
dwelt, and the old gentleman's place knew him
no more.

The twelve months were almost at an end,
when Paston came down to Oakleigh again to
visit Arnold and talk over many things.

The two friends sat in the library together
after breakfast, and chatted at first vaguely,
discussing; the affairs of the nation, and various
projects in the East End of London now getting
gradually formulated. But both of them felt
that this was not the subject they really had at
heart just then, greatly though they were both
interested in it. The talk died down presently,
and the two men sat in silence for some time.
Then Paston spoke.

'' Wei], Robur, your year is pretty nearly out

now. You have been waiting, and working
pretty hard ; and, upon my word, I think you're
vastly the better for it."

''My dear fellow, don't go fishing for compliments.
I'm quite prepared to admit that you
were primarily responsible for any improvement
in me, inasmuch as you sent me to Burnport.
But your medicine wouldn't have done by itself."

Well, upon my soul ! Here's gratitude.
What was it I told you to do % Find employment
and face your difficulties. How did I tell
you to do it ? Go to Burnport. Well, you
have done what I told you, in the way I told
you — and now you want to appropriate the
honour of my brilliant cure."

Arnold laughed. " Far be it from me to
claim the honours : but they're due to a better
doctor than you, after all, old man."

Hem. Such is the reward the blameless
leach receives at the hands of shameless sons of
mortals. But I grant you that I didn't calculate
on the lady. Certainly she deserves an
M.D. for her successful treatment."

Arnold rose and, walked to the window, from
which he addressed his companion without turning
round.

Chaffing is all very well, Paston. I can't
thank you enough for the encouragement you
gave me when I came back to England fifteen

months ago, and your excellent remark about
classifying the devil. But there is some one,
but for whom that advice of yours, good as it
was, would have had very little effect. You
don't know what this has been to me. Then I
was like a man in a fog, who took every light
for a will-o'-the-wisp. Now "

I remember," said the doctor meditatively,
I remember the time when I should have been
rather inclined to pity you for such a remark.
I didn't much believe in women — they are so
exceedingly annoying when you want to find out
their symptoms. But I have rather changed my
views on that point. Indiictio per enumeration
simplicem overthrown by one contrary instance.
Now I could mention as contrary instances Miss
Joanna Blunsden, and on your authority. Miss
Lorton, and one or two others perhaps. I don't
include the whole sex in my condemnation."

'your condescension is delightful; however,
you would have a poorish time of it if you
didn't allow an occasional exception to your
general rule. By the way, I am going over to
Beau Sejour in the course of the afternoon.
Do you feel inclined to pay your respects over
there ? "

I don't mind if I do," said Paston with a
careless air ; " how are the family ? What's
become of my young friend Frank ? "

Frank ? " said Arnold, coming back and
taking np his stand by the fire : *' oh, he seems
to be getting on well enough. He went off to
Texas, with an apparent desire to turn over a
new leaf ; and, in fact, he came to me of his own
accord before he had even made up his mind to
go, to apologise and that sort of thing. I
thought it an excellent sign ; there must be
some good at the bottom of him or he wouldn't
have done it ; and from what I hear, he seems to
be keeping steady and working pretty hard.
Grace is very cheerful about him ; he used to bea
burden on her mind, poor girl."

"Ah. Miss Dalton hasn't found anyone to
marry her yet ? "

No," said Arnold.

They went over together that afternoon to
Beau Sejour. They found the whole family
together, and were promptly greeted with the
announcement that a letter had that morning
arrived from Texas.

Poor dear boy, Arnold, I'm sure it's very
good of him to settle down and work so hard,
and I do think the way young men seem to
have to work is dreadful, and Frank never could
manage it in England. Fm sure I only wonder
they don't all get brain fever, what with all the
books and things. Not but what it's quite as
bad out there, and I know Fm always expecting

to hear that Frank or Willie have got sunstroke
or something. Don't you think so, Mr.
Paston ? "

The doctor had not the dimmest notion what
it was that Mrs. Dalton wanted him to acquiesce
in. So he paused, and gave vent to a professional
*' Quite so." Happily the lady was
satisfied. However, at this point her husband
broke in.

Look here, Arnold, did ever you see a letter
like that ? " and he held up the document for
public inspection. '' Bless my soul ! There's a
fist for a man to write ! 'Deed, it's a good thing
your brother didn't have a try at Sandhurst,
Grace, for he'd have been ploughed as sure as
eggs is eggs. Just look at it. There's spelling
for you ! That's what he learns by going out
there, is it ? "

Well, papa, he didn't go there to learn spelling,"
said Grace.

'' And who said he did ? Excuse me, Mr.
Paston, or Dr. Paston, I believe I should say,
but being a man of science you are doubtless
aware that these young people give themselves
the most unconscionable airs."

'' I don't know whether you're including mein
that sweeping denunciation, Mr. Dalton : I
haven't got grey-headed yet, you know."

Papa wants an ally, that's all," said Grace ;

and he thinks he'll win you over by complimenting
you on your sage appearance."

'* Well then," suggested Arnold, " you'd better
put in a bid to secure Paston on your own side.
You've no notion what an admirer of the sex he
is, Grace ; to look at him, you might put him
down for a misogynist. But he's given up his
evil ways, and you can turn him round your little
finger now, I believe — if you'll only bid high
enough at first."

Grace was puzzled ; so, as the safest way out
of the difficulty, she laughed.

But Mrs. Dalton had been silent too honos
had been taking in the fact that Paston was
entitled to the complimentary title.

Dear me ; and so you're really a doctor now,
Mr. Paston, that is, Doctor Paston : but I didn't
know doctors were ever so young, you know.
And now I want to know if you really think it's
right for Arnold to be going about in that dreadful
East End the way he does. Of course it's
very good of him, and all that sort of thing,
giving up his time to these people, though what
he wants to do it for I'm sure I don't know.
People never did that sort of thing in my young
days, and it seems to me very foolish, what with
small-pox and scarlatina, and goodness knows if
we shan't be having cholera over here some of
these days."

Pas ton listened with apparent attention to this
harangue ; but his eyes, it seemed, were engaged
in another quarter. Grace rose to put some coals
on the fire ; she had been trained by practical
necessity to do all these little offices, and Frank's
society had taught her that the other sex were
not to be relied on as substitutes. But Paston
forestalled her, and there was a little bit of an
argument before she could give in, and altogether
it was some time before the doctor was able to
answer Mrs. Dalton's observations. Indeed, it is
rather creditable to him that when he returned
to his seat he had some notion of what the good
lady had been talking about. He was proceeding
to assure her that Kobur's health was by no
means seriously endangered by his philanthropy,
when the door opened and Canon Armitage was
announced. The result was that there was a
general uprising and hand-shaking, and a kind of
General Post," to borrow a metaphor from one
of the most popular of juvenile games ; and somehow
Paston found himself seated by Grace, with
Armitage between him and the lady of the house.

The Canon's appearance had not undergone
much alteration. Perhaps he looked a trifle
more ecclesiastical, if that be possible, than when
last we saw him. He had been a great success
at Copesbury, and had won golden opinions from
every quarter since his appointment, and was

looked upon generally as a coming man. He had
published a pamphlet on the question of Disestablishment,
which was considered a masterpiece
of skilful argument combined with unwonted tact
and moderation ; and he had preached before very
eminent personages. Otherwise there was little to
say about him, save that he seemed no nearer
marrying than he had been fifteen months before.

Mrs. Dal ton descended upon him with startling
celerity.

Such a long time since we've seen you, Canon
Armitage ; I declare I wonder you haven't been
made a bishop since, only of course we've seen
you at Burfield." She forgot completely that the
Canon had been present at the Christmas festivities
only seven weeks back, and had dined at
Beau Sejour since, so that the interval for his
promotion was small. " But there, I'm sure
you're looking as if you'd been overworking
yourself dreadfully. You ought to marry, and
have a wife to take care of you."

Mr. Dalton heard, and chuckled. " Too much
sense, haven't you, Armitage ? It's just for all
the world like buying a pig in a poke is marrying,
take my word for it." His remark, however,
was lost on his better half, who never
attempted to follow his proverbial philosophy.

But I declare, you men never know how to
take care of yourselves properly. There's Arnold

VOL. III. T

Kobur working himself to death clown in the
East End, with all sorts of cholera and things
going on all round, and Doctor Paston actually
encouraging lira. I think it's really dreadful,
you know, Canon Armitage, and I do wish
you'd speak to him about it. He might listen
to you, but I'm sure it's no use my talking to
him."

Certainly," said the wily Canon, " I expect
to have a good deal to say to Eobur about his
experiences in London," which was a diplomatic
and deceitful way of putting it, because it
left Mrs. Dalton under the impression that he
was going to do as she asked him.

Paston had by this time got fixed in a conversation
about flowers with Grace ; Arnold and
Mr. Dalton were having a quiet discussion in a
corner, the subject of which is of no importance
to anybody ; and so Armitage and Mrs. Dalton
settled down into a tete-astute, and it was really
a study to observe the amount of attention the
gentleman seemed to bestow on the talking
partner in the firm — if that expression is permissible.
She, good soul, unaccustomed to such
treatment, poured forth her streams of eloquence
with redoubled volubility ; and the clergyman
really felt it an intense relief to be able to
chuckle inwardly when he heard on his left,

Haven't you ever seen one ? "

No, Miss Dalton, I'm afraid not. Have you
got any here ? "

Oh yes ; there are several in the conservatory."


And he was not surprised to observe, shortly
after the tea came in, that Miss Grace was going
to show the Doctor the unknown flower. ^

Robur," he said presently, " I'm going over
your way to see one or two sick folks ; will you
give me your company ? "

Humph ! And what are you going to do
with Paston, may I ask ? " enquired the unconscious
Mr. Dalton.

It was wonderful to see the air of practised
deception with which the reverend Canon replied
that a stern necessity required his own immediate
departure ; but that he wanted to talk privately
with Eobur, and Paston might overtake them, ashe
knew his way. Arnold agreed in his view of
the case ; and they bade farewell to Mr. and
Mrs. Dalton.

I say, Armitage," said Robur, as soon as they
got outside, " what does all this mean ? why, he
hasn't seen her half-a-dozen times."

Armitage broke out into an exceedingly hearty
fit of laughter.

Well, he has kept pretty quiet ; but are you
quite sure of your half-dozen ? "

Why, what d' you mean ? "

*' My dear fellow, I mean simply this — that
circumstances brought me across Paston after that
first meeting of ours here, and we rather took to
each other. You didn't notice the warmth of
his greeting to me to-day ? It would have been
rather odd if we hadn't met since. We took to
each other, as I say ; and Paston has on sundry
occasions received me very hospitably at Wimpole
Street, and the hospitality has been now and
then reciprocated."

'you mean that he has stopped with you
when I've been over in Whitechapel ? "

Precisely," said the other, chuckling afresh.
"Why, he never said a word of it to me,"
said Arnold, stopping and looking at his companion.


No doubt — nor did I till now, because he
particularly begged me not to. But that is how
I found out what was going on, and why I put
that exceedingly severe strain on my conscience
this afternoon. The murder's out now. Don't
tell him I let you know."

'' Upon my word ! " said Arnold ; " and this
man is a dignitary of the Church ! "

They walked on in silence for a few minutes,
and Arnold turned on his companion again with
a smile.

I say, Armitage, I never expected you to
take a paternal interest in such exceedingly

mundane matters as love-affairs. We shall be
hearing that you're engaged yourself presently."
The clerical Ananias laughed ; but his voice
was save ao^ain when he answered, *' I don't
think that's likely, Eobur. Marriage isn't included
in my theory of my own life ; but I
should be the last to look upon it as a mundane
subject. Doubtless it has a side which belongs
to comedy, but its other side is worthy of treatment
in an Epic. Love, as I take it, is one of
the highest emotions of which man is capable ;
and the love of a man and woman ought to bethe
emotion's highest form — for some minds, at
any rate. Some seem incapable of it ; some seem
to find their best sphere in other thoughts, in
labouring for humanity."

Do the two ideas clash then ? Surely not.
A man's love doesn't take the heart out of his
work, unless I'm very much mistaken."

No," said the clergyman, " I would not say
that ; but that there are some persons who seem
to be without need of any single human love :
whose hearts, as it were, embrace all mankind.
Yet, down at bottom I half suspect that they are
no gainers by that — while I confess that I myself
never feel the craving for another self, a heart
which must beat in answer to my own."

"Truly," replied Arnold, "I think they are
indeed losers — these solitary souls. And yet we

number among them some of the men whom
posterity loves above all others. But for myself,
Armitage, do you know about me ? "

I have heard nothing since you stayed with
me," said the other ; " are you — " He paused.

To-morrow," said Kobur, '' I am going down
to Burnport ; and when I return, I trust it will
be merely to make such preparations as are needful
before — well, Armitage, if I succeed — and I
am certain to, I think, for I know that I have her
love — you must perform the — the ceremony."

It was really odd how much Arnold stammered,
and how wild his grammar became in the
course of this sentence. Armitage said nothing,
but laid a friendly hand on his shoulder.

^' As for the rest of it, you can learn it from
Paston. I can't talk about it now. It is now,
at the last moment, that one feels one's utter
unworthiness. You count humility a virtue —
when a man is in my position," said Arnold,
the smile breaking out on his face again, '^ he
ought to be virtuous ; for, upon my word, I never
felt so humble in my life before."

With the cheerful prospect of a reaction in the
way of inordinate arrogance in a couple of days.
Well, my friend, I won't chaff you — I must leave
you here." They paused, and stood holding each
other by the hand in a warm grip. " And do
you know, in spite of what I said just now, I

can almost find it in my heart to envy you.
Good-bye."

They parted, and Arnold watched the other
turn down to visit a humble cottage where there
were two children down with fever.

Well," he said, as he strolled homeward,
musing, " who knows ? You too, one way or
another, will have your reward — something better
than a bishopric."

It is to be observed that Arnold's confidence
in the reception he would meet with at Burnport
was justified by the entire certainty that Ursula
loved him ; and that being so, he knew that whatever
anxiety he might naturally feel, the issue
was really pretty secure. He had talked of the
matter to no one but Paston, and was relieved to
find that the astute doctor was so safe a confidant,
though he had himself now been moved
to speak of it to Armitage.

While he was wending his way homeward, the
intellectual offspring of Confucius and all the
Polemics was holding high converse with Mrs.
Marchpane in the comfortable housekeeper's room
at Oakleigh.

What I says, Mrs. Marchpane, is as such
con duck is no-ways to be reckoned on. 'Ere's
Mr. Arnold bin a gaily wanting' must of all in
furrin parts for a year, an' then when he come
back, what does he do ? Settle down quiet with

his pipe an' a missus ? Nary a bit. Off he goes
a gally-wanting' again down to the sea, as Providence
didn't mean us to go a risking' our precious
lives on, else fur why wur England made
into a island ? an' when he's done a-crying' to
drownd himself, 'e can't come back 'ere quiet an
respectable like, but takes his-self off to Lunnon,
an' spends his blessed time, for what I can see, a
meddling' with other chaps as don't belong to his
spear, nor didn't ought to. An' what's he got
fur it all ? jest a bit of a tumble as knocked 'im
up a bit a year ago. Looks as if there couldn't
be a brighter side o' things nohow." Mr. Gibbins
rubbed his chin in deep disgust at this persistent
defiance of fortune.

"There now, Joshua, I never did see such a
cantankerous man as you are," said the housekeeper.
" Why should he be hurting himself so ?
You never seem to be content, I declare, unless
you hear that somebody's been breaking their
arms or legs, or something. Why, if you weren't
as pleased as pleased when old John's little girl
got scarlatina, and now you want the young
master to break his neck, I do believe."

Well," responded the sage, " an' a good thing
it wur too as she did get it ; them things is best
took young, an' so you ought to ha' snowed, mum.
An' that 'ere's jest what you women's always a
coin', a-twistin' round what a man says till 'e

don't know whether 'e's a standing' on 'is 'eat oris
'eels. I says, Mr. Arnold ha' bin a gally-wanting',
an' round comes you a saying' as I wants
'im to break his neck ! McD-folks is mostly fools,
mum ; but there — they ain't a patch on women."

Now Mrs. Marchpane was no more inclined
than Mr. Gibbins himself to express approbation
of her master's wandering proclivities ; but then
it was not at all her way to suffer anyone but
herself to comment on Arnold's failings. And
when Joshua added to this primary encroachment
on her own particular prerogative one of
those sweeping denunciations of the sex which
he generally kept compressed within him till he
was fortified in the security of his own den, it
was more than her equanimity could endure.

*' My certes," she exclaimed, " to think o' you
talking like that ! Why, Rhoda there " — the
housemaid entered at the moment — " has got as
much sense in her little finger as there is in all
your big body. Sakes alive 1 as if the master
oughtn't go where he likes without your opinion.
And what would he want to be marrying for at
his years ? " Mrs. Marchpane's round countenance
positively glowed with indignation.

But the philosopher bore the attack as became
him, calmly.

*' I ain't a-saying' anything again' particular persons,
mum : Ehoda, she's a gal as knows what

she's about when she's a minding' of her own business,
as she mostly lev the sense to do, an' I
don't say as she don't. But for gen'ral folly,
an' a-mixin' up o' things, an' a-tidyin' as is jest
making' of a fuss mess nor before, an' for a
jumping' at idees when they ain't got nothing' to
jump from, give me women."

Barbara could only fume. " Which I wonder
where the men 'ud be without us," put in Ehoda,
coming to her superior's assistance.

Where 'ud the men be ? if you'll go an' open
that 'ere big Bible o' Mrs. Marchpane's, an' search
the Scripture, as the 'apostle Paul says somewheres,
round about them chapters at the beginning',
you'll see where we'd ha' bin, if it 'ain't
bin fur the con-weariness o' womankind, a-meddlin'
where they didn't ought to wi' their curiosity,
a pekin' 'ere an' a pekin' there, — sitting' in Eden
we'd a' bin, 'stead o' eaten' by the sweat of
our brows. Mrs. Marchpane, mum, there's the
master's bell a ringing' for you."

And the triumphant Joshua retired with all
the honours to the privacy of his sanctum.

Ten minutes later, as Mrs. Marchpane came
out of Arnold's library, Paston walked into it,
with a flower in his button-hole, which he had
not been wearing when he left Oakleigh that
afternoon.

Oh, Paston, Paston ! " said Eobur, turning

on him as the door closed ; " oh, Machiavellian
physician ! How are the family at Beau Sejour ?
How is your young friend Frank ? and — has Miss
Dalton found anyone to marry her yet ? And —
where, my Benedick, where did that flower come
from ? "

From the conservatory," replied the doctor
with brazen countenance, 'you see, my dear
fellow, your fulcrum seemed to me to have
answered the purpose so admirably that — well —
I thought I might as well take a leaf out of your
book. Pretty flower, isn't it ? "

Joshua Gibbins, who was congratulating himself
on an unwontedly brilliant victory over the
housekeeper, was startled in the midst of his
meditations by his door being suddenly thrown
open, and the housekeeper herself appearing
breathless in the opening. He was aghast at
the intrusion — too much aghast to speak.

Joshua," said Mrs. Marchpane before he had
recovered, '' Joshua, what d' you think ? You're
not to breathe a word of it to any living soul
but — he's going to bring back a — a missus.
There, I'm an old fool" — the good soul's eyes
were brimming over with joyful tears — " but —
God bless 'em ! " And she vanished.

Gibbins rose. The full import of Barbara s
remarks was slowly becoming apparent to his

brain. He rubbed his. brow ; his eyes twinkled ;
he grinned ; suddenly the walls echoed one vast
Ho ! ho ! " Then Joshua raised his right hand
hiofh in the air and brought it down on his thio^h
with a sounding smack.

"Lor!" he said. "Blessed if 'ere don't seem
to be a brighter side o' things after all ! "

CHAPTER XIV.

JOANNA LOOKS OUT OF THE WINDOW.

fond anxiety of mortal men I
How vain and inconclusive arguments
Are those which make thee beat thy wings below !
For statutes one, and one for aphorisms
Was hunting : this the priesthood follow'd, that
By force or sophistry aspir'd to rule ;
To rob another, and another sought
By civil business wealth ; one moiling lay
Tangled in net of sensual delight,
And one to listless indolence resign'd ;
What time from all these empty things escap'd,
With Beatrice, I thus gloriously
Was rais'd aloft, and made the guest of heav'n,"

Divine Commedia (Gary's translation).

Aunt Joan looked out of the window.

It was a simple act, but her way of doing it
made it expressive. She had caught the trick a
year ago, almost immediately after a certain event
which had nearly affected her own life and the
lives of those dearest to her. Ursula used to
wonder what it meant at first ; but gradually, as
it grew into a habit, she ceased to notice, or at
least to speculate about it. Once she might

have thought that Joanna was expecting something
— a letter, possibly — which never came ;
now she never thought about it, except as a
harmless idiosyncrasy, having no significance to
anyone, not even to the half-unconscious watcher
herself.

Perhaps Ursula was more changed than Aunt
Joan — changed, that is, not radically, but in the
sense of being far more completely developed
than she was a twelvemonth since. Outwardly
things went on much the same at East Else as
they had done in previous years ; Ursula had
formed no new habits, though she did not disguise
from herself that she was living a new life.
Some casual mention of Arnold Robur would now
and then escape Aunt Joan's lips, but not often.
When she did speak of him, however, it was with
perfect frankness, and the girl listened intently
to such occasional news of him as there was to
tell, saying little about it, but betraying no
embarrassment when the topic was broached.

The remaining member of the family, — last,
but not least, — Miss Hilda, was the only one
who could boast that she had successfully resisted
every subversive influence for a very long time
back ; in fact, her astounding immutability made
farther demonstration that she was an immortal
being almost superfluous. Nothing short of a
universal cataclysm seemed ever likely to disturb

the sanctified repose of the Mother Superior, nor
was the blissful haven of her arm-chair to be
submerged by any ordinary domestic storm. To
put the matter as she herself once eloquently
expressed it to her sadly recalcitrant sister :

"No one who believes in the special interposition
of Providence, Joanna, dearest, has any
cause for thankfulness, even when Earthquake,
Famine, Pestilence, and Volcano are permitted
to take their walks abroad."

On this particular February morning Miss
Blunsden went forth armed in sweet trustfulness
and thick furs to take an airing on the parade
in her bath-chair. She was not accompanied by
either of the other ladies, but her serene equability
was in no wise disturbed on that account.
Sleep would doubtless console her for their absence,
she reflected, and an extra siesta thrown
in before lunch do more to make her forget her
cares than their somewhat unsympathetic company.
So without troubling them with an invitation
to join her she departed, leaving Joanna
sitting for her portrait to Ursula. The work was
now nearly completed, and when the young artist
laid down her implements, remarking that one
more sitting: would be all that was needed, her
model graciously expressed a firm opinion that
the likeness would after all turn out to be not
unrecognisable.

It was after paying this compliment that Aunt
Joan walked to the window and looked out.

Someone was coming up the hill. An exclamation
rose to Joanna's lips, but she covered
it with a cough, and went on watching the figure
down below, while Ursula was occupied with her
brushes. The individual in the road approached
briskly, though he slackened his speed as he drew
towards the house, and finally stopped before it
in a rather hesitating manner.

He's not going back now, surely," muttered
Joanna to herself, keeping well beyond the range
of the mysterious wayfarer's roving eyes.

Apparently he was unable to make up his mind
to gain admittance just then, however. Swinging
his stick meditatively in his hand, he advanced a
little farther up the road, and disappeared down
some rough steps which led to the garden in the
glen below.

Ursula, dear," said Aunt Joan, turning round
quickly from the window, " go down to the
drawing-room and clear your brains with a little
music. I've got something I want to do now,
and in half an hour we'll go out for a turn."

Don't you be too long," said Ursula, as she
prepared to acquiesce, " or we shan't have anytime
before lunch."

Joanna was suddenly in a great hurry for
reasons of her own. She went to her room and

slipped into walking habiliments ; then, as the
sounds of the piano reached her, she stole downstairs,
left a message with the servant that she
would be back directly in case any one called,
and with quiet promptitude let herself out of the
house.

Her parting injunction to the maid was a
source of much puzzlement to that invaluable
domestic.

Call ? Who's going' to call this time o' day,
I should like to know ? " quoth she, proceeding to
polish her plate in the pantry.

The grim ogress had retired, leaving the castle
undefended, and her captive princess all alone
in it ; evidently, therefore, the prince's conduct
would have been quite unjustifiable if he had
not called, and been shown up into the bower
where the princess was discoursing her sweet
strains.

They sat down in the back drawing-room,
where the piano was, did the prince and princess,
he on an ottoman, she resuming her seat at the
instrument ; and then they fell to talking.

It is delightful," said he presently, '' when
friends can meet after a long interval and feel
that each is the same to the other, however different
the rest of the world may find them.
People say, ^ how changed you are ! ' but that is
because they do not possess the key to one's

YOL. III. u

heart. Friendship probes down at once into a
man's inmost part, and discovers nothing there
but what it knew and anticipated."

Yes," returned she musingly ; " friends can
always tell how it will be with their friends ; it
seems to me that such men and women have the
true spirit of prophecy."

He leaned his head on his hand and gazed
at her :

That is just what I think ; second sight can
be no impossibility where * Love is Law and
Lord.' "

She started, trembling. Could he know what
strange confirmation of their import his words
conveyed ?

He paused, but she did not open her lips, and
he went on again, speaking very slowly :

"There is something I should have told you
honor aofo, but could not find how I might do so
before. Even now it is hard to say what I mean
so that you may not misjudge me. Forgive me
if the truth sounds hard when I tell it : believe
that my part has been and is no less hard to play
than yours."

She understood now. Silently she drew the
ring from her finger, and laid it down by her on
the piano.

He rose to take it, feeling the hand thrill that
held it.

"This has been a symbol to you of much," he
said ; '' it is in your power to say whether it
shall ever mean more to you, or keep only the
memory of what it has been to others before you.
No one else has worn it since my mother laid it
aside as the last relic of the love which she had
known on earth, when she could have no farther
use for any symbol. Then I missed it, and
thought for a time that I should never be able to
give it to the woman who could return my love.
May that fear prove to have been vain ! How it
at last found its way to you is no matter, even
if it were accurately known. What need to ask
that question, when the gift that came to you
by other hands was freely given by him who
should have offered it ? I own that the first
sight of it upon your finger was so strange and
inexplicable that at first I was carried out of myself,
weakly drawn after some monstrous delusion.
The past was all distorted when I looked back
upon it : there was no solitary fact in my dealings
with you or others about which I could feel
any degree of sureness ; nothing clearly cat or
comprehensible enough to rid me of distrust and
heal my folly. So things went on in aimless
fashion, till I found one who taught me the
doubt-dispelling power of love, — the love that I
had tried in my feeble arrogance to forswear, —
and then I easily understood my error.

U 2

And now, Ursula, dear lady, let me know if
you can accept this account of me, before I go on,
and dare to ask more of you than forgiveness."

There were tears in her eyes as she fixed them
with fond pride upon her knight, and a smile of
praise and encouragement parted her lips as she
made answer :

Indeed, it does hurt me, as you say, to be
deprived of associations such as have made that
keepsake dear to me. But, after all, they were
slight,— very slight, — even had they been true.
The thought of them is soon gone, as all memory
fades before the endless promise of the future.
Oh, my dear, you are generous to take from me
one little circumstance of sorrowful joy, putting
in its place a vision of happiness whole and untainted.
You no longer doubt your love, you
tell me ; but what if your doubts were right ? I
have never concealed myself from you, Arnold,
and should not have put difficulties in your path
of my own accord if it had been otherwise free.
But are you sure you know how shallow, how
ignorant, how narrow I really am ? I am not
afraid of debasing myself by saying so : better
to acknowledge all this honestly than suffer you
to be misled by any false pretence on my part.
You have been open with me, and I am bound
to be no less sincere with you. Perhaps I ought

to take the sternest view of my responsibility in
this, and refuse to tie you by anything more
binding than my dearest friendship. Surely men
and women may love each other without an exclusive
mutual engagement. You think too well
of me now, and would have me take advantage
of your infatuation."

She spoke with a concentrated animation that
he had never-seen in her, or any other woman,
before. Her eyes sparkled now and again, and
there was a faint flush in her cheek ; but she
remained in her former posture, bearing herself
with calm earnestness.

Arnold began to walk up and down, as was
his way when he had any knotty matter to
disentangle.

"Well, well; if to be as I am is to be infatuated,
there is only one being who can transmute
my passion into something more rational,
or work any other change in me that she will.
Has she faults '? I suppose so, though they are
veiled to human eyes. No, Ursula," he came
and stood before her, " I will not let you answer
me like that. Marriage is not a question of
deserts on either side ; fair maidens have never
yet held competitive examinations to test the
worth of the successful lover, and an infatuation
does not outlive such an absence as mine has

been. You might have thought good to refuse
me utterly ; then I should not have pressed you
farther. But now, knowing as much of you
as I can understand, I beseech you to let me
learn more. Already I am wiser than I was ;
the love I bear you has made me more alive to
all else in the world, I think ; and that again —
the comparing of you with every other object
of desire — led mee back by a new road to perceiving
your excellence afresh. So far, dear
girl, the lesson has been faithfully learned :
beyond this point I cannot go alone ; you must
be with me, if I am to explore all that is still
denied me."

It is all so strange," said Ursula, pressing
her hands over her eyes ; " bear with me, I must
realise it gradually."

Arnold gave her time. His heart beat fast
with exulting gladness : she was his at last ; no
need to hurry now.

He sat down again, his head swimming with
the sudden reaction of this long-continued strain
upon his faculties, while his ears seemed stunned
by the jubilant rhythm of some great hymn
of praise. To him, too, sheer bewilderment
was the first consequence of the overwhelming
harvest of his hopes. There was nothing to
be done but to begin reaping the fruits before

him ; but for a space his senses almost failed,
appalled at the prodigious task. A moment
since, as it were, he had been starving ; and
now he could not take and eat for very plenty.

Why should attainment of our ambitions be
so often attended with pain, not only in the
getting, but even when what we want is actually
grasped ? Men work, strive, push, pant, agonise
for enjoyment which, when all has been done to
win it, they cannot enjoy. Nor are the wisest
and greatest any better off than the meanest
in this respect. Alexander, and the most miserable
slave in Alexander's dominions, were equally
subject to the impartial administration of this
law : both were doomed to dissatisfaction, — the
one with his black bread and offal, the other
with each fresh accession of territory that
crowned his victories.

But the lovers, while they felt this, knew that
to be dissatisfied is the greatest prerogative that
man or woman can possess. The true ideal
is too far beyond for any one of the successive
stages in the approach to it to be regarded as
final, when once such temporary shelter has been
gained. They had passed but the foot-hills, and
began to see for the first time a distinct outline
of heights yet to be traversed, whose top reached
unto heaven.

Are there many other people in the world for
whom you care ? " asked Ursula abruptly.

"Yes, to be sure; there's Aunt Joan, and all
my old friends at home, to say nothing of
Paston, and Armitage, and the Daltonss — some
of them; besides a few school and college
associates. Then there are a number of my
Whitechapel neighbours of whom I have managed
to get very fond somehow during the past
year, and some of them have been down to seeme
for a few days at Oakleigh. Oh, my visiting
list is quite a goodly roll, Ursula, and I can
assure you that I really like everyone whose
name is on it, mure or less."

"It sounds like a reproach," returned she a
little mournfully ; " here have I been living
on for years and years, never getting to know
anyone, scarcely, out of our own small circle
here. How shall I make others take to me as
they do to you '? My sympathies may be permanently
stunted, and by my own fault too.
I don't see how anyone is ever likely to feel the
least concern about me, except you and dear
Aunt Joan. I don't deserve to be loved at
all, — a heartless, self-willed creature, like Beatrice
in the play."

Arnold laughed.

A woman's view of that gracious, generous
lady ! But give your sympathies the chance,

love. Trust me, air and exercise is all they
want."

Gaiety is catching, and Ursula's face grew
mirthful.

^' Well, you must give me a trial," she said
with the old delicious ripple in her voice.
What do you say to asking Aunt Joan to
bring me to Oakleigh for a month on approval ?
Not that I anticipate not liking the place, but
just to see how the place likes me. Do you
think you can give us board and lodging on
those terms ? "

Speaking for Mrs. Marchpane and myself, I
think I may say that the arrangement is as good
as made," was Arnold's reply. " But aren't you
more like Miranda than Beatrice to let your first
male friend woo so successfully ? "

A very naughty as v/ell as clumsy attempt at
humour, sir!" and Ursula tried to look severe.
Such wickedness must be made an immediate
example of, or there is no knowing to what crimes
it may lead. Perhaps you are not aware that a
most powerful rival has been in the field before
you, and one who, I am sure, whatever else his
faults may be, would never have made me the
victim of a classical allusion."

Arnold's look of wonderment was changed to
an amused grimace when he heard the conclusion
of this scathing rebuke.

^'Poor Frank," said he, smiling ; "I suppose
you gave him a dreadful lecture ; I hope you
had as much pity on him as you have showed
to me."

Not quite as much," replied Ursula mischievously
; " I keep my pity for those who need it
most, you see. Frank Dalton's was quite a transient
attack, and was not attended with deeply
injurious results. In fact, I saw a good deal
more of him after the outbreak than before.
He used to come to me for advice, so I suppose
my behaviour on that momentous occasion must
have inspired him with awe and admiration of
my brilliant sagacity. We talked his matters
over ever so many times ; he only wanted to get
away from his mother to become a very good
sort of boy, and I believe we really did each
other some good."

Yes," remarked her lover ; '* I happen to
know that was the case on one side, at any rate.
You didn't miss the opportunity of extending
your sympathies then, Ursula. Frank Dalton
owes his start in life to you almost as much as
I do."

They were close together, and he took her
hand.

Arnold," she said, " do not let us wrap ourselves
up alone in our love, dear. Love must
die, if it cannot have the whole world free for it

to settle everywhere, and make honey in as it
will and of what it will. A single tiny cottage
garden — or even the Oakleigh one — is no sufficient
scope for its untiring work. You have
been thoughtful for others without me, and I do
not want you to be less unselfish when I come to
you. 1 must help you all I can to keep up your
friends — my friends, — and even add to their
number."

"Yes, yes, my darling; oh, Ursula, how good
you are, how blest I am ! "

Another long eloquent silence followed. Sweet
as was the present, they were each thinking rather
of the past which led them to it, of the future to
which it led. Here at this supreme crisis of their
lives they saw, with that magical insight, which
for the moment possessed their souls, how every
fact and circumstance had traced its delicate converging
line to this point of time, and how a
myriad more were to diverge again from it,
presaging unutterable things.

^ * * * *

The hall-door below was opened, and there
were sounds of voices, one of which was raised
to a rather unusual pitch, but not apparently for
purposes of altercation.

Aunt Joan was talking to her sister ; they had
reached the foot of the stairs, and now seemed to
be ascending.

Then the prince took the ring, and placed it
again upon the princess's yielding finger, just
where it had been before. Having done this,
he bent down tenderly over her, and kissed
her between the eyes ; and they two were
happy.

THE END.

It. Clay and Sons, Bangay, Suffolk.
