OF THE

U N Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

8Z3
FZ2b

%

/

TALES.

BY

HUGH CONWAY,

(F. J. Fergus,)

AUTHOR OF 'CALLED BACK.

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

REMINGTON AND CO.,

Henrietta Street, Covent Garden.
1884.

[All A'/j^/ifs Reserved. "l

JOSEPH L. Rocked.

CONTENTS.

*«^t Image

V THE SECRET OF THE STRADIVARIUS* - - - i

^ FLEURETTE-44

A CABINET SECRET 8$

THE BANDSMAN'S STORY* Ii

THE Blanchard BEQUEST 1 57

MY FIRST CLIENT (A SOLICITOR'S TALE) - - - 23 1

n * These three tales were originally published in Blackwood's
-Magazine.



THE

SECRET OF THE STRADIVARIUS.

My friend Luigi is reckoned one of the
finest violin-players of the day. His wonderful
skill has made him famous, and he is
well known and honoured for his talent in
every capital in Europe.

If in these pages I call him by a name
other than the one he has made famous, it is
solely on account of a promise he exacted
from me, in case I should ever feel tempted
to make the following strange experiences,
we shared together, public property. I am
afraid, nevertheless, that too many will
readily identify the man himself with the
portrait I am obliged to draw.

VOL. I. 1

Lulgi — leaving his professional greatness
out of the question — would have been a
noticeable man In any company, a man at
whom people would look and ask not only,
Who Is he ?' but ' What has he done In the
world ?' knowing that men of his stamp are
seldom sent upon this scene to live an
ordinary everyday life. In person he was
very tall, standing over six feet. His figure
graceful : some might even have called It
slight, there was breadth of shoulder enough
to tell It was the figure of a strong man. A
face with a pale but clear complexion ; dark
deep-set eyes, with a sort of far-away expression
In them ; black hair, worn long, after the
manner of geniuses of his kind ; a high but
rugged forehead ; a well-shaped nose ; a
drooping moustache ; a hand whose long
and delicate fingers seemed constructed expressly
for their particular mission — violin-playing.


Picture all these characteristics, and if you
enjoy the acquaintance of the musical world,
or even if you have been in the habit of
attending concerts where stars of the first
magnitude condescend to shine, I fear, in

THE SECRET OP ~. STRADIVARIUS. 3

spite of my promise of concealing his name,
you will too easily recognise my friend.

Luigi's manner in ordinary life was very
quiet, gentlemanly, and reposed. He was,
in his dreamy sort of way, highly courteous
and polite to strangers. Although, when
alone with me or other friends he loved, he
had plenty to say for himself — and his broken
English was pleasant to listen to — in general
company he spoke but little. But let his left
hand close round the neck of a fiddle, let his
right hand grasp the bow, and one knew
directly for what purpose Luigi came into
the world. Then the man lived and revelled,
as it were, in a life of his own
making. The notes his craft drew forth
were like bracing air to him ; he seemed
actually to respire the music, and his dreamy
eyes awoke and shone with fire. He did
that rare thing — rare indeed, but lacking
which no performer can rise to enduring
fame — threw his whole soul into his playing.
His manner, his very attitude as he commenced,
was a complete study.

Drawing himself up to every inch of his
height, he placed the violin — nestling it, I

may say — under his chin, and then taking a
long breath of what appeared to be anticipatory
pleasure, swept his magician's wand
over the sleeping strings, and waking them
with the charmed touch, wove his wonderful
spell of music. The moment the horsehair
came in contact with the gut, the listener
knew that he was in the presence of a
master.

Luigi had come to London for the season,
having, after much negotiation and persuasion,
accepted an engagement at a long series of
some of the best, if cheapest and most popular
concerts held in London. It was his first visit
to En gland:he had ever disliked the country,
and believed very little in the national love for
good music, or in our power of appreciating it
when heard. He disliked, also, the trumpeting
with which the promoters of the concerts
heralded his appearance. Although his fame
was already great throughout the Continent,
he dreaded the effect of playing to an unsympathetic
audience. His fears were, however,
groundless.

Whether the people liked and understood
his music and style of playing or not, they

least appeared to do so ; and the newspapers,
one and all, unable to do things by halves,
went into raptures over him. They compared
him with Paganini, Ole Bull, and
other bygone masters, and their comparisons
were very flattering. Altogether, Luigi was
a great success.

I met him on two occasions at the houses
of some friends of rhine, who are in the habit
of spending much time, trouble, and some
money on that strange sport, lion-hunting.
His concerts were held, I think, on two
evenings in every week ; so he had time at
his disposal, and was somewhat sought after.
We were introduced, and I took a liking to
the quiet, gentlemanly celebrity, who, different
from many others whose names are in
the mouths of men, gave himself no airs, nor
vaunted, by words or manner, the 'aristocracy
of talent.'

I could make shift to converse with him
fairly enough in his own soft language ; so that
upon my meeting him the second time, he
expressed his pleasure at again encountering
me. A few days afterwards we met by
chance in the street, and I was able to extricate

him from some little difficulty, into
which his imperfect knowledge of English
and of English ways had betrayed him.
Then our acquaintance ripened, until it
became friendship ; and even at this day I
reckon him amongst the friends I hold the
dearest.

I saw a great deal of Luigi during his stay
in London. We made pleasant little excursions
together to such objects of interest ashe
wished to visit. We spent many evenings
together, nights I should rather say,
for the small hours had sounded when we
parted, leaving the room dim with the smoke
from my cigars and his cigarettes. Like
many of his countrymen, he smoked simply
whenever he could get a chance ; and when
alone with me, I believe the only cessation
to his consumption of tobacco was when he
took his beloved fiddle in his hand and
played for his own pleasure and my delight.

He was a charming companion — indeed
what man who had seen such varied life ashe
had, could be otherwise when drawn outby
the confidence that friendship gives ? I
soon found that under the external calmness

of the man lay a nature full of poetry, and
not free from excitement. I was also much
amused to find a vivid vein of superstition
and belief in the supernatural running
through his character ; and I believe it was
only my merriment on making the discovery
that hindered him from expatiating
upon some ghostly experiences he had himself
gone through, instead of darkly hinting
at what he could reveal. It was in vain I
apologised for my ill-timed mirth, and with a
grave face tried to tempt him. He only
said : ' You, like the rest of your cold-blooded,
money-making race, are sceptical,
my friend. I will tell you nothing. You
would not believe : you would laugh at me —
and ridicule is death to me.'

Another thing about which he was very
tenacious was showing his skill when invited
out. He invariably declined to do so, seeming
quite puzzled by the polite hints thrown
out by some of his entertainers.

'Why can they not come and hear mein
public i^' he asked me. ' Or can it be that
they only ask me to their houses for my
talents, not for my society ?'

I told him I was afraid their motives were
rather mixed ; so he said quietly :

Then I shall not go out again. When I
do not play in public to earn my living, I
play for myself alone.'

He kept his resolve as well as he could —
declining all of his many invitations, save
those to a few houses where he knew he was
valued, as he wished to be, for himself.

But when I was alone with him, when I
visited him at his rooms, then he was not
chary In showing his skill ; and, although I
blush to say so, at times I had violin-playing
ad nauseam. A surfeit of sweets — a satiety
of music. I often wonder if it has ever been
any man's lot to hear such performances as I
did In those days when, grown careless of the
good the gods would send me, I lay at full
length on Luigi's sofa ; and the master of the
magic bow expounded themes in a manner
which would have brought the house down.
Till then I little dreamt of what, in skilful
hands, the Instrument could do. How true
genius could bid it laugh, sob, command,
entreat — sink into a wail of pathetic pleading,
or soar to a song of scorn and triumph ! what

power to express every emotion of the heart
lay in those few inches of cunningly curved
wood ! Now I could understand why Luigi
could play so much for his own enjoyment ;
and at times it seemed to me that his execution
was even more wonderful, his expression
more thrilling, when I alone formed his
audience, than when a vast assembly was
before him, ready, as the last impassioned
notes sank into silence, to break into a storm
of rapturous applause.

Luigi was a connoisseur in fiddles, and
owned several pet instruments by the most
renowned makers. Sometimes of an evening
he would bring out his whole stock, look
them carefully over, play a little on each, and
point out to me the difference in the tone.
Then he would wax eloquent on the peculiar
charms or gifts the master's hand had bestowed
on each, and was indignant that I
was so obtuse as not to detect at once the
exquisite gradations of the graceful curves.
After a short time the names of Amati,
Ruggieri, Guarnerius, Klotz, Stainer, etc.,
grew quite familiar to me ; and as I went
through the streets I would peep into the

pawnbrokers' and other windows with fiddles
in them, hoping to pick up a treasure for a
few shillings. Two or three I did buy, but
my friend laughed so heartily at my purchases
that I gave up the pursuit.

He told me he had for a long while been
looking for a genuine old Stradivarius, but,
as yet, had not succeeded in finding the one
he wanted. He had been offered many,
purporting to have come originally from the
great maker's hands, but probably they were
all pretenders, as he was not yet suited.

One evening when I visited Luigi I found
him with all his musical treasures arrayed
around him. He was putting them in order,
he said. I must amuse myself as best I could
until he had finished. I turned idly from
one case to another, wondering how any
experience could determine the build of any
particular violin, all of which, to my untutored
eyes, appeared alike. Presently I
opened one case which was closed, and drew
the fiddle it held from its snug, red-lined bed.
I did not remember having seen this one
before, so took it in my hand to examine it —
holding it, after the manner of connoisseurs,

edgeways before my eyes to note the curves
and shape of it. It was evidently old — my
little knowledge told me that ; and as, even
though protected by the case, dust lay upon
it, I could see it had not been used for a long,
long time. Moreover, all the strings were
broken. Curiously, each one was severed at
exactly the same point — just below the bridge
as if some one had passed a sharp knife
across, and with one movement cut all four.

Holding the ill-used instrument towards
Luigi, I said :

This one seems particularly to want your
attention. Is it a valuable one ?'

Luigi, who was engrossed by the delicate
operation of shifting the sounding-post of one
of his pet weapons some infinitesimal part of
an inch to the left or to the right, turned as I
spoke, still holding his ends of string in each
hand. As soon as he saw which violin I had
taken up, he let fall the one he held between
his knees, and, to my great surprise, said
hastily :

Put it down — put it down, my friend. I
beseech you not to handle that violin.'

Rather annoyed at the testy way in which

my usually amiable friend spoke, I laid it
down, saying :

Is it so precious, then, that you are afraid
of my clumsy hands damaging it ?*

Ah, it is not that,' answered Luigi ; * it is
something altogether different. I did not
know my man had brought that fiddle in. I
never intended it should have left Italy.'

It looks an old one. Who is it by ?'

That is a real old Stradivarius — the acme
of mortal skill — the one thing human hands
have made in this world perfect — perfect as a
flower, perfect as the sea. A Stradivarius is
the only thing that cannot be altered — cannot
be improved upon.'

Why do you never use it ?'

I cannot tell you — you would not believe
me. There is a something about that fiddle I
cannot explain. I believe it to be the finest
in the world. It may be even that Manfred
played upon it to Boccherini's 'cello. It maybe
Kruger led with it when the mighty
applause rang through the Karntnerthor,
shaking it from floor to roof-tree, but which
he, the grand deaf genius, Beethoven, could
not even hear. Who can tell what hands

have used it ? and yet, alas ! I dare not play
upon it again.'

Rendered very curious by Luigi's enigmatical
words and excited manner, I ventured
to take the violin in my hands again, and
examined it with interest. I looked carefully
at the belly and the back, noting the beautiful
red but translucent varnish, known alone
to Stradivarius, with which the latter was
coated. I peeped through they's, to ascertain
if any maker's name appeared inside. If
one had ever been there, it was completely
obliterated by a dark stain, which covered
the greater portion of the inside of the back.
Luigi offered no remonstrance as I took the
fiddle for the second time, but sat silent,
watching me with apparent interest.

And now a strange thing occurred to me —
let who can explain it. After holding that
fiddle for a few minutes, I felt a wish — an
impulse — growing stronger and stronger each
moment, till it became almost irresistible — to
play upon it. It was not a musician's natural
itching to try a fine old violin — indeed, I am
no musician, although fond of listening to
music, and at times venturing to criticise ;

neither have I learnt nor attempted to learn
the art of performing on any instrument,
from the Jews-harp to the organ. And yet,
I say, as my fingers were round the neck — as
soft as silk it was — of that old violin, not only
did I feel a positive yearning to pass the bow
across it, but somehow I was filled with the
conviction, odd as it was, that all at once I
was possessed of the power of bringing rare
music forth, So strong, so intense was this
feeling, that, heedless of the ridicule from my
companion to which I should expose myself
heedless, indeed, of his presence — I cuddled
the fiddle under my chin, and took up one of
the several bows lying on the table. My
left fingers fell instinctively into their proper
position on the strings, or rather, where the
strings should have been ; and then I remembered
the ruined state those strings were in,
and, with all my new-born skill, knew that no
miraculous inspiration, even if it produced a
fiddler, could bring forth music from wood
alone. Yet the impulse was on me stronger
than ever ; and, absurd as it may seem, I
turned to Luigi with the request on my lips
that he would resting the useless instrument.

Luigi had been watching me attentively ;
no doubt he had studied every motion, every
vagary of mine since I again began to handle
the fiddle. Seeing me turn towards him, he
sprang from his seat, and before I could speak,
snatched the fiddle from my hands, replacing
it at once in its case ; then closing the cover, he
heaved a deep sigh of relief. I had no time to
entreat, remonstrate, or resist ; but as he took
the fiddle from me, all wish to distinguish
myself in a line that was not my own left me,
and I almost laughed aloud at the folly and
presumption of which I had been mentally
guilty. Yet it was strange — very strange.

Ah !' said Luigi, as he placed the fiddle
out of sight under the table, ' so you felt it
also, my friend ?'

Felt what ?'

The — I don't know what to call it — the
power, the sorcery of it.'

I felt — don't laugh at me — that had the
strings been there, I, who never played a
fiddle in my life, could have drawn exquisite
music from that one. What does it mean ?'

Luigi returned no answer to my inquiry,
but said, as if thinking aloud :

So it was no dream of mine. He, the
cool, collected Englishman — he felt it also.
He could not resist the impulse. It was no
dream — no creation of my fancy. Would he
see it, I wonder ?'

See what ?' I asked, curious to know
what his wandering sentences meant.

I cannot tell you. You would not believe
me.'

But what do you mean by the sorcery of
the fiddle ?'

Did I say sorcery ? — Well, I know no
other word that can describe it. Although I
tell you I believe that fiddle is the finest in
the world, I have only played upon it twice ;
and the second time I drew my knife across
the strings, that I might never again be
tempted to play upon it without due consideration.'


What is its history, then ? Where did
you get it ?' I asked, by this time thinking
my friend was suffering from some eccentricity
that genius occasionally exhibits.

It was sent me originally from London.
When I found out its secret, I begged my
agent in England to ascertain its history.

After some trouble, he traced it to a house
where, for many years, it had lain unnoticed
in a garret. That house had once been a
lodging-house ; so doubtless the fiddle had
belonged to some one who had sojourned
there for a time. I could learn no more
about it, save what it told me in its music'

I saw Luigi was far away from any wish
to jest, so paused before I asked him the
meaning of his last sentence. He anticipated
me, and said :

You wonder at my words. Did you notice
nothing else strange about it ?'

Only a dark stain inside ; as if wine had
been spilt into it.'

Ah !' cried Luigi excitedly, * that is it !
that is the secret — the meaning of the power
it holds. If it were not for the varnish that
fiddle would be stained outside and inside.
That stain is from a man's heart's blood, and
that fiddle can tell how and why he died.'

I do not understand you.*

I do not expect you to — or believe me —
why should you ? What have you, an unimaginative
Anglo-saxon, to do with marvels'*
How, in the centre of a great, cruel, material

VOL. I. 2

city, with the ceaseless sound of traffic outside
our windows, should you expect anything
supernatural ? It may be I only dreamt it.
Perhaps you would not see it. And yet, one
night when I feel strong enough, we will take
the fiddle from its case, and I will play it to
you — I who, until to-night, have not laid a
finger on It for five years. And then, if its
music moves you as it moved me, I dreamt
no dream. If not, I will say it was a dream,
and I may at last be able to use this masterpiece
of Stradlvarlus.'

I begged him to name an early day for the
curious performance, but he would make no
promise ; so we parted for the night.

A month passed by : Lull's London engagement
terminated, and he was now going
to win fresh laurels at Berlin. I had seen
him two or three times every week, but he
had never referred to the conversation which
had taken place upon the night when I drew
the strange violin from its case ; nor had he
offered to redeem his promise made on that
occasion. I had ceased to think about it, or
indeed only remembered it as a jest, laughing
at the Idea of a superstitious man not being

able to play on any particular fiddle. Two
days before he left England he wrote me
asking me to dine with him that night, adding,
I think I may keep my promise of playing
upon the Stradivarius

We dined at a well-known restaurant, and
about ten o'clock went to Luigi's rooms to
finish the night. The first thing I saw, upon
entering, was the fiddle-case lying on the
table — Luigi's favourite bow and several coils
of strings beside it. We sat down and talked
on various topics for about an hour, and then
I said :

I see you have made preparations for the
performance. When do you intend to begin T

Luigi drew a deep breath. ' My friend,'
he said, * you will not blame me if my playing
agitates you ; and remember, when I once
begin I must continue to the end. It is no
pleasure to me — it is rather deadly pain. But
I am curious, and would satisfy my doubts.'

He was so much in earnest that I checked
the laugh his solemn manner called up, and
merely nodded acquiescence. He then rose, and
saying, * We must not be interrupted,' called
his servant, and after giving him the necessary

instructions, locked the door, placing the key
in his pocket. He then opened the mysterious
case, and with tender hands drew forth
the violin. His nimble fingers soon detached
the severed strings, knotted on the new ones,
and in the course of about a quarter of an
hour the instrument was ready, and tuned to
his satisfaction. I felt, as I watched him, I
should like to take the violin in my hands
once more, to see if the strange desire I had
before experienced would again come over
me — but I hardly liked to ask him to permit
me to do so.

And now all was ready — Luigi's critical ear
satisfied with the sound of the strings — and
he seemed about to strike his favourite attitude.
Yet I noticed his pale face was paler
than usual, and the hand poising the bow
seemed tremulous ; and as I looked at him, a
sympathetic feeling of fear — a dread of something,
I knew not what — crept over me. It
seemed too absurd, however, to be disturbed
by an excitable Italian playing a violin in a
room with all the appliances of modern everyday
life around me ; so I laughed away the
feeling, placed myself at full length on the

sofa — my favourite attitude for listening to the
master's performances — and was prepared to
give my undivided attention to the music.

And yet, for a while Luigi did not begin,
although he saw I had resigned myself to
my fate. He had placed the violin under
his chin ; his left-hand fingers were on the
strings, but for some minutes he contented
himself with beating a sort of time, or
rhythmical measure, with the bow. One
would have said he was endeavouring to
recall something he had heard once, and
only imperfectly remembered.

What theme are you going to play to
rise ?' I asked.

On hearing my voice he looked at me
vacantly, and only upon my repeating the
question did he seem aware of my presence.
Then with an effort he said, ceasing not to
beat time the while :

Ah, that I do not know. I am no longer
my own master ; I cannot choose. Let me
beg of you not to interrupt me again, my
friend.'

I said no more, but watched him with
anxious eyes. The left-hand fingers slipped,

slid, and danced in dumb show up and down
the strings, the bow for ever beating time.
A sort of shiver passed over him ; then,
drawing himself up, he swept the bow across
the strings, and the fiddle, silent for so many
years, found tongue at last.

A weird strain, commanding the listener's
attention at once — a strain I knew I had
never heard before. So curious the opening
bars sounded, that, had I dared, I should
have said that several well-established rules
of harmony where outraged. And yet, in
spite of its peculiarity, I knew that he who
created that music was a master in the art.
It was not Wagner, I was sure, although
somewhat of his remarkable power of expression,
and gift of moving the mind
without the aid of melody, was present.
The first thirty bars, or so, appeared to me
to be of the nature of an overture, heralding
the performance to follow. In snatches of
mystic music the violin spoke of joy and
sorrow, pain and pleasure, love and hate,
hope and fear ; and as my own thoughts
responded to the varied emotions, I lay and
wondered who could have written the music

which affected me so ; and thought how
fortunate the unknown composer was to have
such an exponent of his ideas as Luigi.
Yet, as I looked at the latter, it struck me
his style of playing to-night was different
from usual. Faultless though the execution
was — marvellous as were the strains those
facile fingers drew forth — the whole manner
of the man seemed to be mechanical, utterly
at variance with the fire and dash that ever
characterized his performances. The skill
was there, but, for once, the soul was wanting.
With the exception of his hands and
arms, he stood so still that he might have
been a statue. He played as one in a trance,
and his eyes with a fixed look were ever
directed towards the end of the apartment.
Swifter and swifter his arm few backwards
and forwards — more strange, eccentric, and
weird the music became — stronger in its
expression, plainer in its eloquence, more
thrilling in its intensity, and ever exercising
its powerful spell on the hearer. At last,
with a sort of impulse, I turned my eyes
from the player and looked in the direction
in which he looked. Suddenly the music

changed. There was now no lack of melody.
A soft, soothing, haunting measure began —
a sort of dreamy far-away tune ; and as its
gentle cadences fell on my ear, hitherto kept
in a state of irritating, if not unpleasing,
expectation, my thoughts began to wander to
old and half-forgotten scenes — distant events
came to my mind — recollections of vanished
faces, once familiar, flocked around me — all
things seemed growing misty and indistinct,
and I felt as one sinking into sleep — the sort
of sleep that one can almost realize and
enjoy.

It was not to be, however. A few harsh
notes from the fiddle, sounding like a warning
or admonition, recalled me to wakefulness
; and as my straying thoughts collected
themselves, that lulling song began again.

And yet, if fully awake and conscious,
where was I ? The scene was entirely
changed ; and although I knew I was still
lying where I had at first placed myself —
although I could hear within a few feet of
me the unceasing melody of Luigi's violin
I was now looking into a strange apartment,
even as one looks into the representation

of a room on the stage ; and I kn ew I
was dreaming no dream. It could be none ;
for, as I gazed, I felt a feeling of utter
astonishment — and that feeling is always
absent from a dream, however marvellous
its features may be. Yet, lying there, and
in as full possession of my faculties as I am
at the moment of writing these words, I saw,
opened as it were before me, a strange room,
and one I could in no way connect with any
chamber which I was in the habit of entering.
It appeared to be a large, lofty apartment;
and if I was looking at a vision, neither the
room nor its belongings presented any appearance
of unreality. The latter, indeed,
gave the idea of wealth and comfort. The
furniture was after the fashion of the early
part of this century. The chairs were
covered with costly old brocade ; and a
short, square pianoforte — then the highest
triumph of the maker's art — stood open
against one wall. And as, with the sound of
the violin ever near me, I noted these things
and waited for what was to come, I knew —
although 1 did not attempt it — that I was
utterly powerless to turn my eyes from the

phantom scene before me, even to ascertain
whether it could be that Luigi saw the
things I saw.

Another change in the wonder-working
music. A long rippling legato passage,
sweeping into a tender, passionate, pleading
strain — the eloquent notes speaking of joy
and fear mingled. As my heart followed and
understood the inspiration of the musician,
I whispered to myself, * This is love.' As if
in answer to my thoughts, the door of the
phantom room opened, and two figures entered
a lady and a gentleman. Both wore the
dresses of that period to which I have
assigned the date of the furniture, and both
were young. Like the objects around them,
there was nothing in their appearance ghostlike
or supernatural. Their limbs looked as
firm and round as my own. It was some
little time before I could take my eyes from
the girl. She was supremely beautiful — tall
and fair, with a delicate, refined face ; and
the robe she wore plainly showed the exquisite
proportions of her figure. Her companion
was handsome, but his features wore
an expression of melancholy pride. I noticed

he carried under his left arm a violin, and
something told me he was a Frenchman.
With great courtesy he led the girl to a seat,
and, as if in obedience to a request of hers,
commenced playing the instrument. Still
the same sweet strain fell on my ears ; buta
stranger thing than any I had yet noticed
was that, as he played, the sound seemed to
come from his violin, and Luigi's was dumb.
And as he played, the girl looked up at him
with admiring eyes. He ceased at last, and
Luigi's fiddle immediately resumed the
melody, without a moment's break. Then
I saw the phantom place the violin and bow
in the girl's hands, instructing her how to
hold them ; and I knew that, during the
lesson, his voice as well as his eyes made
avowal of his passionate love. I saw his
fingers linger on hers as he placed them on
the strings ; I saw the blush deepen upon
her cheek, the lashes droop over her downcast
eyes, and then I saw him lean over and
press his lips to the fair white hand which
held the bow ; whilst the music near me,
sinking almost to silence, and tremulous as
if a man's future lay on those vibrating

Strings, told me he sought his fate at her
lips. He threw himself at her feet, and I
saw the girl bend over him, and placing her
arms around his neck, kiss his forehead,
whilst high and loud rose the song of sweet
triumph from those impassioned chords,
doubtful of her love no longer.

Again the strain changed — a song of love
no longer : a few notes of warning, melting
into a strain that foretold and spoke of
sorrow. Again I saw the door of the
apartment open, and, with a hasty step,
another man entered. He, too, was young
and powerfully built, with an intensely
English face. Yet I could trace in his
harder features a resemblance, such as a
brother might bear, to the girl before me.

As he entered, the lovers sprang to their
feet ; then, covering her face with her hands,
the girl sank upon a chair, whilst her companion
faced the new-comer with an air as
haughty as his own, and words of scorning,
of contempt, of shaming, of defiance, were
hurled from man to man. True, I heard
them not — all the phantasmagoria came before
me in dumb show : but the varied tones

of the violin told me all that passed between
the two men as truly as though their voices
smote upon my ear ; and, as the wild music
culminated in a fierce crescendo of thrilling
power, the two men grappled in their rage,
and the girl sprang to her feet and ran wildly
to the door.

For a moment all grew misty, and the
phantom actors of my vision were hidden
from my sight. When they reappeared, I
saw the young Frenchman quitting the room,
with blood trickling down his pale cheek ;
and as, with a look of undying hate on his face,
he closed the door behind him, the room and
all faded from my sight.

But no pause in the music ; still those
weird notes weaving the mystic spell that
chained me. Leaving me no time to reflect
on what I had seen, but enforcing my attention
to the drama acted before me, the fiery
crescendo sank in a dull sullen theme, almost
colourless when compared with the foregoing
numbers ; then, as with dissolving views,
where one scene grows through another that
fades, I began to realize that I looked into
another room — one very different from the first.

It was evidently, from the slanting roof
and small window, an attic, and its contents
spoke of poverty. A bedstead with threadbare
hangings occupied one corner, and in
the centre, at a square table littered with
sheets of music, sat the young Frenchman.
His brow was contracted, and the wound yet
fresh on his cheek. He was writing, and
through the medium of the music I knew the
purport of his epistle as well as if I had
looked over his shoulder. It was a challenge
— a challenge, which, he stated, his late
antagonist dare not decline, as the writer was
of even more noble family than the man who
had insulted him.

Having written the letter, he rose and
paced the small room, deep in thought. As
his steps went backwards and forwards
across the limited space — as his thoughts grew
black with hate as he remembered the insult
he had suffered, or grew bright with love
as he pictured the fair girl who had pledged
herself to him — so truthfully did the delicate
gradations of the music harmonize with them,
that I could feel every emotion stirring his
heart, at times almost identifying myself

With him — making his joy, his sorrow,
mine.

After what seemed to be hours, he took up
the violin that lay on the table near him, and
commenced playing. As before, I say,
whether Lulgfs hands produced It or not,
the sound came from him ; and as he played,
the music, at first fierce, stern, and harsh,
gradually toned down until It became dreamy
and lulllnof — until at last he threw himself on
his poor bed, and Lull's violin resumed the
strain — the soft, soothing measure I have
before mentioned, telling of placid sleep.

Another change — hard, sharp, staccato passages.
I was now looking — It might be from
a window — on a wide expanse of smooth
green turf As before, the scene was so real,
so material, that I might have stepped out
on to the sward. There was nothing in the
locality which I could Identify. A wall and
some palings, I remember, were on the left
hand ; a belt of trees on the right. As I
looked, I saw figures at some little distance.

Two men in their shirt-sleeves were engaged
in a deadly duel. They were not sofar
away but I could plainly distinguish their

features ; and I knew they were those of the
two men whom I had seen grapple in the room.
As their slender, flashing blades twined In
and out like serpents — as they thrust and parried,
advanced and retreated — the mysterious
music entered fully Into the fray, accompanying
every stroke, until, as the arm of one of
the combatants sank by his side, helpless —
pierced by his antagonist's blade — it swelled
to a strain of exultation.

It was the Englishman who was wounded;
and as the sword dropped from his grasp, his
opponent with difficulty checked the impulse
urging him to drive his weapon through his
unguarded breast ; then, seeing his foe was
quite unable to renew the combat, bowed with
cold politeness, sheathed his sword, and turned
away, leaving the wounded man to the care
of his second. As the Frenchman vanished
from my sight among the trees at the right
hand, the scene grew blurred and faded — only
the spell of the music continued ever.

The dismal measure and the dismal garret
once more. As I look at the poverty-stricken
room, the music, eloquent as before,
in some hidden manner makes me aware that

months have passed since I last looked at it.
The young Frenchman is present. Indeed,
J begin now to understand that no scene can
come beneath my eyes unless he be an actor
in it. It is his life, his love, the violin in its
own marvellous tongue relates. I wait with
interest now. I have no time to wonder at
or speculate upon what I have seen ; no time
to endeavour to explain the phantom scenes
and actions which the song of the Stradivarius
has brought before me. I feel no fear
curiosity and excitement only. Luigi's
presence I have forgotten, so intent am I
upon the drama played before me.

The young man, I notice, is handsome as
ever, but paler, thinner, and careworn. What
is the music saying now in that strange speech
which I interpret so readily ? Poverty and
hopelessness, loss of love, and with that loss
the wish to rise to fame.

He is writing ; but the paper before him
this time is a score — the score of a work he
once thought would hand his name down to
future times. Well I know, as I watch him,
that music will never be given to the world.
I know it is night ; and to kill his bitter

VOL. I. 3

thoughts he is sitting down and working
without interest at his uncompleted score.
As I watch him, grieving at his grief, weird
and dreamy and unearthly sounds Luigi's
violin — bar after bar of the music monotonous
and sad. Then of a sudden it wakes to fresh
life with a sort of expression of keen surprise,
and the young man raises his head from the
work that interests him no more, and the
door of his poor dwelling opens. A few bars
of that haunting melody, that has caused me
to whisper, * This is love,' merge into a strain
of plaintive hopelessness, and the fair girl
enters. She is closely veiled, and enveloped
in a long dark cloak, and as she raises the
veil from her face, and looks at him with sad
and wistful eyes, the man's heart responds to
the impassioned strings and vibrates with
love, hopeless though it be. For I know
that ere two days are past she will wed
another, and the man knows it, and,
crushing down his love, curses her in his
heart for her faithlessness. He stands fora
moment after her entry helpless in
his surprise at seeing her, and then, with
a grand air of calm politeness, handing

her to one of the crazy chairs that furnished
his poor room, waits, with a cold face, to
learn the object of her visit. Then the
woman — or the music — pleads in pathetic
strains for pardon and forgiveness — pleads
the pressure put upon her by friends — pleads
her utter helplessness in their hands, — yet
tells him, even with the wedding-ring waiting
to encircle her finger, that he alone, the
exiled, poverty-stricken Frenchman, owns
the love her heart can give. And as the
tears fall from her eyes, the man waves his
arm round the squalid room, and showing by
that gesture his utter poverty and hopelessness,
commends, with a bitter sneer, the
course she has taken, or been compelled to
take, and asks how he could expect the
daughter of a noble English family to share
such a home and such a lot as his. I seethe
girl hesitate, falter, and tremble, and as
she rises, the man, with a calm air and forced
composure, opens the door. Weeping bitterly,
she leaves him ; and as he closes the rickety
door upon her, a wail of music, more mournful
than words can describe, lingers in the
air, and brings the tears to my eyes, whilst

3—2

the man kneels down and kisses the very
boards on which her feet had rested.

With the mirthless smile upon his face, he
sits down thinking, thinking ; and the music,
playing ever, gives me his thoughts. As I
read them I shudder, knowing how every
fresh departure tends ever and only to the
same end — what has he to do with life any
longer ? — he, the last descendant of a noble
French family, his sovereign an exile, his lands
and possessions confiscated or squandered,
and now he lies starving, or soon to be starving,
in a London attic. Even the fame that
he once hoped to win as a musician is far off;
and, if ever to be won, is it worth struggling
for ? The past, to him, is full of agonizing
recollections of relatives and friends whose
blood has slaked the guillotine's thirst. The
present is misery. The future, now that the
dream of love he had dared for a while to
dream is dispelled, hopeless — what, indeed,
has he to do with life any longer ? If he
knows not how to live, at least he knows
how to die.

Ever with the same dreary thoughts in his
mind, I see him take the bulky score — the

result of months, it may be years, of labour —
and deliberately tear sheet after sheet to
pieces, until the floor is littered with the
fragments. And as his action tells me he
renounces hope, love, and fame, I know I am
fated to see an awful sight, but am powerless
to move my eyes from the scene. For still
the melancholy notes sound ; and I know-that
until Luigi's hands are at rest, I am
fettered by the spell the music weaves. I
watch the man, or the phantom, with concentrated
interest. The last page of the score
falls in tatters to the ground, and, still seated
in the chair which he had placed for the girl,
he stretches out his hand, seeking for something
amongst the papers on the table. Well
I know the object he seeks — a small knife,
with an elaborately chased silver handle — a
relic, doubtless, of former riches. To-morrow
even that would have been sold to provide
the bare necessaries of the life he ceases to
care for. He opens it, passes his fingers
across the keen edge, and removing his coat,
turns up his shirt-sleeve to the shoulder, and
deliberately severs a large vein or artery
in his arm. Oh, that maddening music ! —

encouraging, tempting, even applauding his
crime of self-destruction ! I see, and sicken
at the sight, the first red rush of blood from
his white arm ; and then, drip, drip, drip,
follow the large quick-falling drops. So real,
so horrible is the vision, that I can even note
the crimson pool forming amid the tattered
paper covering the floor. Will the fatal
music never end ? Minutes are hours as
I watch the face grow whiter and whiter, as
the man sits bleeding to death. Now, whilst
I long to faint and lose the dreadful sight, he
rises, and, with tottering steps, walks across
the room and takes up the violin. With the
life-blood streaming from his left arm, once
more, and for the last time, he makes the
instrument speak ; and again, I say, the
music comes from him, and not from Luigi.
As he plays, even whilst I wait for what
must follow, I know that such rare music was
never heard on earth as the strain to which I
listen — fancying the while I can see the eager
wings of Death hovering around the player.
To what can I compare it ? A poet would
term it the death-song of the swan. It is the
death-song of a genius — one whom the world

never knew — whose own rash act has extinguished
the sacred flame. Strong and wild
and wonderful rises the music for a while.
Now it sinks lower, lower, and lower. Now
it is so soft I can scarcely hear it ; it is
ebbing to silence, even as the heart's-blood is
ebbing to death. The face grows ghastly ;
the head sinks upon the breast ; the eyes
flicker like the dying flame of a candle ; the
violin drops from the reddened hand, and the
man falls sideways from his chair to the
ground, even as Luigi's violin completes the
bar his fall had broken off in the middle ; and
as it sums up the tragedy in one long-sustained
passage of hopeless grief, I see the
bloodless, white face of the man, now dead,
or soon to be dead, lying on the ruddy floor ;
whilst the left arm, motionless now, rests as
it had fallen across the violin, which those
nerveless fingers had at last been fain to
drop.

The music stopped — the spell was ended.
So powerfully was 1 wrought upon by the last
vision I had seen, that the moment my limbs
resumed their freedom, I rushed forward and
fell fainting on the very spot on which it

seemed to me the man had died. When I
recovered consciousness, I found Luigi bending
over me, and sponging my face with cold
water. He was pale and agitated, and
seemed from physical exhaustion scarcely
able to stand. I rose, and with a shudder
looked towards that part of the room where
the phantasmagoria had appeared. Nothing
was there now to move me. The familiar wallpaper,
the pictures I had so often scanned,
alone met my eye. As I gazed round, Luigi,
in a whisper, asked :

You saw it all, then, as I did ?*

I saw it all : could it have been a dream ?'
He shook his head. * If so, three times

have I dreamed it, and each time alike in
every detail. The first time I said, '' It must
be a dream ;" the second time, " It may be
fancy." But what can I say now, when
another sees it also ?'

I could give him no answer — I could offer
no explanation — only I asked :

'Why did you not cease playing, and spare
me that last sight i^'

I could not. It was your impulse to play
on that violin, when first you saw it, that led

me to think its strange power would act on
another besides myself, and induced me to go
through it all once more. But it will tell its
story to no one else.'

I turned inquiringly, and seeing on the
carpet a mass of small splinters of wood,
mixed with tangled strings and pegs, knew
what he meant. This, then was the end of
the masterpiece of Stradivarius.

And you mean to say you had no power
to cease when once you began ? — were compelled
to play through the whole tragedy ?'

I had no power to stop. Some force irresistible
compelled me. I was but an instrument
; and absurd as it seems, I believe that
you, with no knowledge of the art, would
have played just as I did.'

But the music ?' I asked. 'The wonderful
music ?'

That to me,' replied Luigi, ' is the
strangest thing of all. Neither you nor I
can recall a single bar of it. Even those two
or three melodies which, as we heard them,
we thought would haunt us, have vanished.'

And it was so. Try how I would, I could
fashion no tune at all like them.

It bears out what I told yon,' said Luigi,
in conclusion. ' I was simply an instrument.
Indeed, it seemed the whole time not I, but
another was playing. But here is an end of
it.'

Then, late as the hour was, we kindled a
small fire, and consumed every atom of the
violin which held, in some mysterious, inexplicable
way, the story of a man's love and
death.

We parted at last. Luigi left England as
arranged, and has not yet revisited it.

Is there any sequel to my incredible story?
None that will throw any light upon it, or
enable me — as, indeed, I have lite hope of
doing — to win the reader's belief. Only,
some time afterwards, I saw in the house of
a man — known by name at least to all who
are familiar with the titles of the great ones
of the land — the portrait of a lady. It was
that of his mother, who had died a few years
after her marriage ; and if the painter's skill
had not erred, it was also the portrait of the
phantom-woman whom I had seen twice that

night in the visions brought before me by the
weird music. Every feature was so stamped
upon my memory, that I could not be mistaken.
And yet I did not trouble to inquire into her
private history. Even if I could have learnt
it, it could have told me no more than I knew
already. The story of her love and its tragic
ending — doubtless a sealed page in her life —
had been fully revealed to me as I lay in
Luigi's room listening to the varying strains
of the haunted Stradivarius.

Chapter I.

I HAD spent some years in the colonies,
doctoring diggers and the like rough-and-ready
folks. The novelty of the strange
scenes and free-and-easy life had at last
worn off, and I found myself sighing for the
respectability of broadcloth and a settled position
in my profession. Aided somewhat by
thrift, and more by a fortunate land speculation,
I had made money enough to supply
my wants for a few years to come; so I
returned to England, resolved to beat out a
practice somewhere.

Of course, the first person I went to see
was John. He was my brother — my only
brother — indeed, the one tie I had to
England. We were a couple of orphans,

but pretty sturdy ones withal, and well able
to wrestle with the world. Fortunately, our
father lived until his eldest son was of an
age to carry on his snug country practice ; so
John still occupied the old red-brick house in
the main street of the little town of Danbury,
the same brass plate on the door doing duty
for him as for his father before him.

I found old John — so his closest friends
ever called him — little changed : rather
graver in mien, perhaps, but with the same
honest eyes and kindly smile, winning at
once the confidence, and soon the love, of
men and women. As we clasped hands and
looked in each other's faces, we knew that
the years which had made men of us had
only deepened our boyish love.

It was pleasant, very pleasant, for a wanderer
like myself to find such a welcome awaiting
him. It was good to sit once more in that
cosy old room and talk with John late into the
night, discussing all that had happened since
last we sat there. I had many questions to
ask. Dalebury is only a little town. Having
been born and bred there, I knew all the inhabitants.
I had not been abroad long

enough to forget old friends, so I plied John
with many inquiries as to the fate of one or
another. After a while I asked :

*Who lives now in the old house at the
corner — where the Tanners lived once ?'

A widow lady and her daughter, named
Dorvaux.'

French, I suppose, from the name ?'

No, I believe not. Her late husband
was French ; but so far as I have learned,
Mrs. Dorvaux is an Englishwoman.'

New-comers ! They must be quite an
acquisition to Dalebury. Are they pleasant
people ?'

I don't know — at least, I only know the
daughter. She is very beautiful,' added
John, with something very much like a sigh.

My quick ears caught the suspicious sound.
Could I be on the eve of an interesting discovery
?

Very beautiful, is she ? And what may
her Christian name be ?'

Fleurette — Fleurette,' replied John, repeating
the soft French name, and lingering
upon it as though it were sweet to his lips,
like wine.

Then he changed the conversation, and
far away we drifted from beautiful maidens
and musical names, as I recounted some of
my colonial exploits — how I had treated
strange accidents, out-of-the-way diseases,
ghastly gunshot wounds ; until our talk became
purely professional, and without cheerfulness
or interest for the laity.

I spent the next day in looking up old
friends and neighbours. I had brought
money back with me — not very much, it is
true, but rumour had been kind enough to
magnify the amount, so every one was glad
to see me. Mind, I don't say this cynically ;
I only mean that, leaving the nuisance of
appeals to the pocket, for old sake's sake,
out of the question, all must feel greater
pleasure at seeing a rolling-stone come back
fairly coated with moss than scraped bare.
So all my old friends made much of me,
and I wondered why the world in general
should be accused of forgetfulness.

Whilst I was at one house, another visitor
entered, and I was introduced to Miss
Dorvaux. As I heard her name, the recollection
of my grave brother's midnight sigh

made me look at her intently and curiously ;
more so, I fear, than politeness allowed.

Now you must decide for yourself as to
whether Fleurette Dorvaux was beautiful.
When I say, candidly, that only one person in
the world admires her more than I do, that only
one person is her more devoted slave than I
am, I confess myself a partial witness, whose
testimony carries little weight. But to my
eyes, that day, Fleurette appeared as follows.
About twenty years of age ; scarcely middle
height, but with a dainty, rounded figure ;
brunette, with dark-brown eyes, long black
lashes, making those eyes look darker — such
black eyebrows and such black hair ! nose,
mouth, and chin as perfect as could be :
such a bright, bonny, lively little woman !
Not, I decided at first, the wife for a hardworking,
sober doctor like John Penn.

Stay — Is the girl so bright, so lively, after
all ? On her entry she had greeted my
friends with a gay laugh and merry words,
emphasised with vivacious lltde French
gestures, and for a few minutes she was all
life and sunshine. She seemed Interested
when she heard my name, and with easy

grace began talking to me thoughtfully and
sensibly. As she talked, something in her
manner told me that life was not all sweetness
to her. At times her bright brown eyes
looked even grave and serious, and the
smile, ever on her lips as she spoke, softened
to a pensive one. The first impression
she made on me, the idea that she was only
a brilliant little butterfly thing, left me, and I
hastened to atone mentally for the wrong I
had done her by saying to myself, ' I am
for once mistaken ; the girl has plenty of
sense, and, likely enough, will and purpose
in that pretty head of hers.' However,
grave or gay, wise or foolish, I saw in
Fleurette Dorvaux a beautiful girl, and
pictured woe for many a youth in Dalebury.

After John had seen the last of his
patients that night, he joined me in the old
room, and with a bottle of good wine between
us, I said :

I saw your beautiful Miss Dorvaux today.'


John started as he heard her name, but
made no reply ; so I determined to learn all
that was to be learned.

VOL. I. 4

It was a very easy task. Old John had
never yet been able to keep a secret from
me — it may be he never meant to keep this.
Anyway, in a short time I heard the whole
history of his love.

Fleurette and her mother came to Dale-bury
some twelve months ago, and John,
whose heart had been proof against all local
charms, had at once surrendered. There
was something in the girl so different from
all others. Her beauty, her gracefulness,
even her pretty little foreign ways, had taken
him by storm ; and, so far as I can judge
from the symptoms he described, his case
was very soon as desperate as that of a boy
of twenty. It may be, the very strength of
the constitution which had so long defied
love made the fever rage more fiercely.
Yet, severe as the attack was, the cure
seemed easy enough. He had a comfortable
home and a good income to be shared ; so
he set to work seriously to win Fleurette's
love. All seemed going on as well as could
be wished ; the girl appeared happy in his
society, and, if she showed him no tangible
marks of preference, pleased and flattered by

his attentions. Yet at last, when he asked
her to be his wife, she refused him — sweetly
and sadly, it is true, but nevertheless firmly
refused him.

Now, although I, being four years younger,
and, moreover, his brother, choose to laugh
at John — call him grave, sober and old — you
must understand this is all in jest and by way
of good-fellowship, and that John Penn was
a man whom any girl should have been
proud of winning. He was no hero, or
genius, or anything of that sort ; but then
most of us move among ordinary men and
women, and only know heroes, heroines, and
geniuses, as we know princes and dukes —
by name. He was a clever, hard-working
doctor, with a good provincial practice.
Modesty deters me from saying much about
his personal appearance, as the world sees
a strong likeness between us. I will only
say he was tall and well-built, and carried in
his face a certain look of power, which right-minded
women like to see with men who
seek their love. His age was something-over
thirty. Our family was good and our
name unsullied. What could have induced

LIBRARY ^

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

Fleurette Dorvaux to reject him ? Beautiful
she might be ; but the times are mercenary,
and beautiful girls don't win the love of
a man like John every day in the week.

Although John told me all about It ina
cynical sort of way — a way which sat upon
him as badly as another man's coat might
have done, he could not conceal from me
how deeply wounded he was — how disappointed
— or how intense had been his
love for the Qflrl. As he finished his recital
I grasped his hand, saying, with the assurance
of one who has seen much life :

Hard work Is the best antidote, and you
seem to have plenty of that — you will forget
all about it In time, old fellow.'

I don't think I shall. I feel like a man
who, having been kept In twilight all his
life, is shown the sun for an hour, and then
again put back into twilight. He will forget
the sun no more than I shall forget
Fleurette.'

^ She seemed to me such a sweet girl,' I
said doubtfully.

She is perfect,' said John. * You have
seen nothing of her as yet. Wait until you

can fathom the depths of thought and
feeling under that bright exterior. Then
you will say I was not wrong in loving her
as I did — as I do even now.'

Has any one else won her ? Was that
the reason she refused you ?'

No one. She loves me, and me only.'

What do you mean ?' I asked, greatly
surprised.

That evening when she told me firmly
and decisively she would never marry me —
never could marry me — even whilst I said
mad cruel words to her, I saw love in her
tearful eyes. And when, forgetting all, I
held her and kissed her once, and once only,
I felt her lips linger on mine. Then she
broke away and fled ; but I know such a
woman as Fleurette Dorvaux would not suffer
a man's kiss unless she loved him. She
wrote me a few lines the next day, telling
me it could not be, begging me not even to
ask her why. Since then she shuns me,
and all is at an end ; so please talk no more
about it.'

Here was a nice complication ! Here was
a knot to untie ! John refused by a girl who

loved him ! I own I was glad to hear him
assert his belief In her love, as, somehow, It
pained me to think of Fleurette sporting with
a man's heart. Although, as I told you, I determined
at first that she was not the right
wife for John, I had soon recanted, and thought
now how wonderfully she would light up the
old house, and how happy John would be with
such a bright little woman to greet him when
he returned of an evening weary and fagged.
So I resolved to see all I could of Fleurette
: to study her, and if I found her as good
as John said she was, to use my skill in untying
the knot and smoothing the strands of
their lives. I never doubted my ability to
arrange the matter. I had always been an
able family diplomatist. Had I not, at New
Durham, brought Roaring Tom Mayne back
to his faithful but deserted wife, and seen
them begin life together again with courage
and contentment ? Had I not made those two
old friends and partners — who for some time
had been prowling about with revolvers In
their pockets, hoping to get a snap shot at
each other — shake hands, and eventually left
them working a new claim together ? Had

I not stopped pretty Polly Smith from running
away with that scamp Dick Long, who
had two or three wives already, somewhere
up country ? In fact, so successful had I
been in arranging other people's affairs, that
it seemed, to an experienced hand like myself,
an easy matter to place John and Fleurette
on a proper footing.

Dalebury is a very little town. Its enemies
even call it a village; but, boasting as it does
of a mayor and a corporation, it can afford to
treat their sneers with contempt. Different
people may hold different opinions as to
whether life is pleasant in large cities or
small towns ; but at any rate, one advantage
offered by a small place like Dalebury is, that
everybody knows everything about everyone
else. You cannot hide a farthing rushlight
under a bushel. So if anybody has anything
to keep secret, don't let him pitch his tent in
Dalebury.

With the universal knowledge of one's
neighbours' affairs pervading the Dalebury
atmosphere, it is not strange that the first
person I chose to ask hastened to give me all
the information respecting the Dorvaux that

Dalebury had as yet been able to acquire.
Mrs. Dorvaux was a widow ; not rich, but,
it was supposed, fairly well off: she was a
great invalid, and rarely or ever went out.
Appearing to dislike society, she received no
one, and scarcely anyone knew her. Those
with whom she had been brought in contact
stated she was a quiet, ladylike woman, who
spoke very little. It was not known whence
they had come — probably France ; but this
was only conjecture, and the absence of certainty
on this point rather distressed Dale-bury.
They kept only one servant, an old
woman, who had been with them many years.
Fleurette had made many friends, and, it
seemed, few, if any, enemies. She did not
go out much, being devoted to her invalid
mother ; but everyone was glad of her company
when she chose to give it. Altogether,
Dalebury had nothing to say against the newcomers
— a fact speaking volumes in their
favour.

After this, as we were such near neighbours,
I used frequently to encounter Fleurette,
and would often join her and walk with
her. Whether she knew that John's secret

was mine I could not say, but she met my
friendly advances half-way. The more I saw
of her, the more I wondered how I could
have thought her so lively and gay. Whatever
she might seem to others, there was, tome
at least, a vein of thoughtful sadness in
the girl's character — at times I fancied it
even approached to despondency ; and I felt
almost angry with her, knowing that a turn
of her finger would bring one of the best
fellows in England to her feet. We met old
John once or twice as we were walking together.
Fleurette cast down her long lashes
and simply bowed.

Of course you know my brother well ?' I
said.

I have often met him,' answered Fleurette
calmly.

And you like him, I hope ?'
I like Dr. Penn very much,' she replied
simply.

He is the best fellow and the best brother
in the world,' I said ; and then I told Fleurette
what we had been to each other as boys:
how John had been as careful of mc as the
mother who was dead mio^ht have been — how

we loved each other now ; and as I spoke,
I saw a blush on her clear brown cheek, and
although she said nothing, her eyes when they
next met mine were wistful and kind.

I shall soon make it all right,' I thought,
as I noted her look, and resolved to argue
the matter on the first fitting occasion.

There is a little river — a tributary to a large
one — running through Dalebury. Being too
shallow for navigation, it Is not of much use
except as a water-supply and for angling.
Still, one who knows It can get a boat with a
light draught a long way up. One afternoon,
thinking a little exercise would do me good,
I procured such a boat, and started to row
up as far as I could, and drift leisurely back
with the current. For some distance on one
side of the stream are rich fertile meadows ;
and the path along the bank, through these
meadows, is a favourite walk with the Dale-bury
folk.

As I paddled my boat up the stream,
guiding Its course by the old landmarks —
which came fresh to my memory as though I
were a boy yet — and starting the water-rats,
descendants of those amongst whom John

and I made such havoc years ago, I saw in
front of me on the river-bank the dainty Httle
figure of Fleurette. As I looked at her over
my shoulder, I could see she was walking
slowly, with her head bent down, as one in
thought. * Thinking of John and her own
folly, perhaps,' I said. So preoccupied was
she, that the sound of my oars did not attract
her attention until I was close to her. Then,
seeing who it was, she waited whilst I rowed
to the bank on which she stood.

Good-afternoon, Miss Dorvaux,' I said ;
if you will step into my boat, I will row you
as far as the shallows will let me, and then
back home.'

Fleurette hesitated.

Thank you, Mr. Penn ; I think I prefer
strolling alone the river-bank.'

o o

In that case I shall tie my boat to this
willow-stump, and, with your permission, walk
with you. But you had far better come with
me : the boat is quite safe, and I have not
forgotten my cunning.'

I am not afraid of that,' said the girl,
stepping lightly into the stern of the boat ;
whilst I thought, ' Here is the chance to

reason and expostulate,' and in my conceit
felt certain that my arguments would let me
bring Fleurette back ready to accept her fate.
Well, pride goeth before a fall !

Yet for a while I said nothing to my companion.
I did not even look at her. Poor
little Fleurette ! I saw, as soon as we met,
that tears were on those dark lashes. The
smile on her lip belied them, but the tears
were there, nevertheless. So I waited for
them to disappear before I talked to her,
although I half suspected my words might
bring others to replace the vanishing drops.

Presently Fleurette cried, in a voice of
pleasure :

There are some water-lilies ! Can we get
them ?'

With some trouble I got the boat near
them, and Fleurette gathered three or four.
As she sat opening the white cups and spreading
out the starry blooms, I said :

Why are you always so sad. Miss Dor-vaux
?'

Am I sad ? Very few people in Dale-bury
give me credit for that, I fancy.'

My eyes look deeper down than the

Dalebury eyes. To me you are always sad.
Why is It ? You have youth, beauty, and, if
you wished it, could have love. Why is it ?'

Fleurette turned her eyes to mine.

Do you think these pale lilies have any
hidden troubles, Mr. Penn ?'

None, I should say. They toil not,
neither do they spin, you know.'

The people who toil and spin are not the
only ones who are unhappy in the world,'
said Fleurette softly.

Nor are the water-lilies the only flowers
that shut up their hearts, and only open them
after great persuasion.'

She placed one of the white stars in her
dark hair, and said :

We are getting quite poetical this afternoon.
Was that a kingfisher flew by ?'

Of course, It was no more a kingfisher than
It was an ostrich ; and as Fleurette was now
my prisoner In mid-stream, I was not going
to let her escape or evade my questions for
any bird that flew.

I steadied the boat with an occasional dip
of the oars, and looking her full in the face,
asked :

Fleurette, why do you treat John so
strangely ?'

Her eyes dropped.

I scarcely understand you,' she said.

You understand fully. Why did you
refuse to marry him ?'

'I might plead a woman's privilege. If
we cannot choose, we can at least decline to
be the choice of any particular man.'

You might plead it if you did not love
him ; but you will not plead it, Fleurette. It
is because I know you love him that I ask you
for an answer to my question.*

Her fingers toyed nervously with her lilies,
but she said nothing.

'If I thought you did not care for him
if you can tell me so — my question is
answered, and I am satisfied. Answer me,
Fleurette.'

She raised her head, and I saw her brave
brown eyes shining through her tears.

The proudest day in my life was when
John Penn asked me to be his wife — the
happiest day would be the day I married
him, and that will be — never.'

Never, Fleurette ?'

Never — never — never ! Unless '

Here the girl gave a sort of shudder, and
covered her eyes with her hands.

Tell me what obstacle there can be,' I
said gently.

I cannot. I will not. If I could not tell
John, why should I tell you ?'

Your mother is a great invalid, is she not ?'
I asked, after a pause.

Yes,' replied Fleurette.

^ Is it possible you fear that John would
wish you to leave her ? Is that the reason,
Fleurette ?'

I will tell you nothing,' she said firmly.
Put me ashore, please.'

Very well. Miss Fleurette,' I said, resting
on my oars. ' Then I give you fair warning,
I shall never cease until I find out everything.'


The girl's face flushed with anger.

What right have you,' she cried, ' to
attempt to pry into my private life ? I hate
you ! Put me ashore at once.'

Fleurette not only had a will, but a temper
of her own.

I will not,' I said, ' until you give me

some message I can take to John — some
word that will let him live on hope, at least.'

Will you put me ashore ?' said Fleurette,
stamping her foot.

My only answer was a stroke of the oars,
which sent the boat some yards further up
the stream.

Then I shall go myself said Fleurette ;
and before I could comprehend her meaning,
she simply slipped overboard, and in a couple
of seconds was standing on the river-bank,
with the water dripping from her petticoats.
She darted across the meadow without even
looking back, and left me feeling supremely
ridiculous. The river was scarcely knee-deep
at this point, so she ran no risk of
drowning, and only suffered the inconvenience
of wet shoes and skirts ; but I could not
divest myself of the idea that had there been
six feet of water there, the beautiful little vixen
would have gone overboard just the same.
I had been completely outwitted by a girl of
twenty — but then no one could have imagined
that a young lady of the present day, attired
in an elegant walking-dress, would jump out
of a boat to avoid his society, however angry

she might be. Yet I felt very foolish as I
drifted back to Dalebury, and doubted
much if I had done John's cause any
good.

After all,' I said, * perhaps my boasted
tact and diplomacy only pass muster in the
free-and-easy community of New Durham,
and I shall be a failure in England. I
had better take the first steamer and go back
again.'

I met Fleurette in the road the next morning.
Her face wore a demure smile.

You treated me shamefully,' I said.

I should be the one to complain, I think.
The idea of attempting to keep me against
my will ! My boots were spoiled ; I was
made most uncomfortable, and had to explain
my draggled appearance as best I could.'

But fancy my horror when you stepped
out of the boat, and picture what a fool I
have felt ever since ! Nevertheless, I forgive
you,' I said magnanimously.

And I forgive you,' said Fleurette, with
deep meaning in her voice.

So we shook hands, and renewed our
compact of friendship.

VOL. I. 5

1 had now been at Dalebury nearly a
month, and purposed, whilst I had time to
spare, to make a little trip to the Continent.
I intended to stay there two months, then
return and begin work. A few days before I
left Dalebury, I heard that some one was 111
at the house at the corner ; and, with the remembrance
of Fleurette's wet shoes and stockings
before me, I was very uneasy. However,
we soon ascertained that Mrs. Dorvaux was
the sufferer, and that Dr. Bush, from the
other end of the town, had been called in.
I knew this was very annoying to John, as
Dr. Bush and he were not the best of
friends. In his professional capacity John
would, I believe, have attended Fleurette herself
without show of emotion ; so why not
Fleurette's mother ? Nothing, of course,
could be said, as we live in a free country,
and people may employ what doctor they
choose.

Evidently Mrs. Dorvaux's illness was not
of long duration, for I soon saw Fleurette
about again. She looked pale and worn,
probably from watching and nursing her
mother. My holiday at Dalebury had now

run down to its last dregs, so when we met
it was to say good-bye.

Can it never be, Fleurette ?' I whispered,
as our hands clasped before parting.

Never,' she replied — * never. Good-bye
good-bye.'

Poor old John ! poor little Fleurette !
What mystery was it that stayed the happiness
of these two ?

I returned home from my travels, tired of
idleness. Having heard of an opening that
promised well, I ran down to Dalebury to
consult my brother. John and I were very
bad correspondents, so I had no news of the
little town since I sojourned there. As I
passed the house at the corner I saw it was
void,

They have left,' said John, as I eagerly
asked the reason.

Left ! Where have they gone to ?'
No one knows,' said John sadly.
Shortly after you went abroad, common
rumour said they were thinking of quitting ;
and last month they did go.'

Did she leave no word — no message for
you .f*'

5—2

Only this,' replied John, opening a drawer
in front of him, in which he kept a variety of
cheerful-looking instruments. ' I found this
one morning on the seat of my carriage. I
suppose she threw it In.'

A single flower, the stem passed through
a piece of paper with the word ' Adieu '
pencilled on it.

Sorry as I was to hear the news, I could
scarcely help smiling as John replaced the
flower in the drawer. It seemed almost
bathos, that little rose, tossed into a doctor's
carriage, and now lying amongst old lancets,
forceps, and other surgical instruments.

The weeks, the months, even the years,
passed by, and we heard nothing of Fleurette.
The flower, doubtless still lying In the
drawer, was all that was left of old John's
little romance.

Chapter II.

Three years soon went by. I was still in
England. I had purchased a share In a
London practice, and although I found much

drudgery in my work, it was a paying
practice, and one which would eventually be
entirely mine, as my partner, who was growing
old and rich, talked of retiring.

Once or twice in every year I had been
down to Dalebury. All was the same there.
John was still unmarried ; and if he said
nothing about her, I knew he had not forgotten
the dainty little girl who had rejected
his love. Yet not a word had Fleurette sent
him. She might be dead or married, for all
we knew. I used often to wonder whether
I should ever meet her again — whether I
should ever learn her secret trouble : for I felt
that Fleurette's sadness was not so much
from having to give up the hope of being
John's wife, as from the cause that compelled
her to take that step. I could only hope, and
say a word now and then to encourage John
to hope also.

One day, whilst snatching a hasty lunch, I
was informed that I was wanted at once. I
found a respectable servant waiting for me.

Please to come to my mistress at once,
sir,' she said. ' She is taken very ill, all of a
sudden.'

Where does she live ?' I asked. The
servant named a street within a short distance,
and in a few minutes I was at the
house.

It was in that description of street which
we term respectable — dull, quiet, and respectable
— small houses on each side, letting
at low rents ; rents, most likely, decreasing
as an old tenant left and a new tenant came
in : the sort of place where the falling gentleman
and the rising clerk or workman meet
in their downward and upward course. On
our way I asked the servant what had
happened to her mistress.

I found her sitting in her chair, sir, looking
so wild and talking such gibberish, that I
came for you as fast as I could.'

She led the way to a sitting-room. 'Mistress
was in there when I left ; will you please
go in, sir ?'

I went in, but no mistress was visible. I
saw, with a quick glance, that the room
was prettily furnished — many little feminine
knick-knacks lying about. Hanging to an
easel near the window were two dead birds,
a goldfinch, and a bullfinch, and on the

easel stood a China plate, painted with a
faithful representation of the models.

Decayed gentlefolks,' I said to myself, as
the servant's voice, calling me from above,
put an end to all further speculations. There
was evident alarm in the girl's accents ; so I
hastened upstairs, and just inside the door
of a bedroom saw a woman lying on the
floor, either dead or insensible.

With the servant's assistance I lifted her
up and placed her on the bed ; then proceeded
to ascertain what was the matter. It
needed, alas ! very little professional skill to
determine the primary cause of her illness.

I had before me one of those sad cases,
unfortunately becoming more and more
common, of drunkenness in one whose
education and station in life should have
raised her far above such a vice. There was
no doubt about it. Even if the odour of the
woman's breath had not told me the truth, I
had seen too many drunken women in my time
to be deceived. I could do little to relieve
her, then ; and after assuring the frightened
servant that her mistress was in no danger, I
placed her comfortably on the bed, and gave

the girl instructions to loosen her clothes.
As she did so, I looked with pity and some
curiosity on the unhappy woman.

She was a lady, evidently — so far as the
common sense of the word reaches — delicately
nurtured and well dressed. Her
features were pleasing, regular, and refined,
yet, in spite of all this, she lay here a victim
to the same vice that urges the brutal collier
to pound his wife to death, and causes the
starving charwoman to overlie her wretched
baby.

I did not like to expose her weakness to
her own servant, so promised to send round
some medicine, and to look in again in the
evening.

As I stood with the door half open, and
turned to give the servant some last instructions,
a girl passed by me hastily, not even
seeming aware of my presence. Before I
had time to speak, or even to look at her,
she had thrown herself on her knees beside
the bed, and was weeping bitterly over the
unfortunate woman. Her face as she knelt
was hidden from me, but I could see her
hair was black, and something in the turn

of her graceful figure struck me as being
familiar.

Oh, my poor mamma ! my poor mamma !'
she sobbed out. ' What shall I do ? — again,
again ! Oh, poor mamma !'

I drew near and said, ' You need not be
alarmed at your mother's illness ; she will
soon recover.'

The girl rose on hearing my voice. She
turned round quickly and looked at me. Lo
and behold, she was our long-lost Fleurette !

Fleurette — and, as I could see, even through
her sorrow, as beautiful as ever ! I advanced
with outstretched hands ; but the girl drew
herself up and waved me aside with the dignity
of a diminutive empress.

And so, as you threatened, you have intruded
upon my privacy. Go — I will never
speak to you again.'

Miss Dorvaux,' I answered, almost as
angry as herself, 'your servant will tell you
how I happen to be here, and you will see it
is from no wish to intrude. I am going now,
but shall return to see my patient this evening,
when I hope, for the sake of old days, you
will give me a few minutes' conversation.'

Then, as Fleurette returned weeping to her
mother, I departed, revolving many things in
my mind, as the writers say.

I had found Fleurette at last. Actually
living within a stone's-throw of my door !
Perhaps she had lived there ever since she
left Dalebury. Now having found her,
what was I to do with her ? I guessed that
I had also fathomed her mystery. You see,
it was only a commonplace, vulgar little mystery
after all — a mother's drunkenness the
sum-total of it. Yet, when I thought of the
girl giving up her love and bright prospects
for the sake of keeping her erring mother's
vice a secret : most likely never complaining
of the sacrifice : wearing to the outer world a
bright face that hid from nearly everyone
the sorrow of her heart, it seemed to me that
our little Fleurette was something very near
a heroine, after all.

My first idea was to telegraph to John and
tell him where to find her ; but upon consideration
I thought it better to wait until after
our interview in the evening.

I found Fleurette alone. She was very
pale, very sad, very subdued — very different,

indeed, from the angry young woman who
had walked into the river three years a^o, or
the unjust tyrant who had ordered me from
her presence that afternoon. My first inquiry
was after her mother. Poor Fleurette coloured
as she told me that lady was now almost convalescent,
and she did not think I need trouble
to see her again. Then she held out her
hand, and as I took it said :

Please forgive me for my unjust words
to-day ; but I was so vexed, I scarcely knew
what I said.'

We are always forgiving each other,
Fleurette. Brothers unto seventy times seven
why not sisters also?'

Fleurette smiled sadly and hopelessly.
Tell me, Fleurette,' I said, gently, as I
sat down beside her, ' was this the cause ?'
She nodded her pretty head.

Tell me all about it. How honor has it
been going on ? I can be as secret as you.'

And then Fleurette told me. I will not
give her words. They were too loving, too
lenient, and ever framing affectionate excuses.
It was a piteous lite tale, even as she told
it — a tale of hope growing stronger every day,

till in one hour it was crushed, as a flower is
crushed under foot. Then came penitence,
contrition, shame, and the ever recurring
vows of amendment. And with them hope
sprang afresh and bloomed for a while — only
to be cut down as ruthlessly as before. And
so on for years, ever the same weary round,
and although she told me not, ever the same
loving care, the same jealous resolve to shield
her mother's sins from the vulgar gaze. It
was a hard burden for a girl to bear. For
this she gave up the hope of being John's
wife. She would not leave her mother to
perish, and would not injure John, as she
shrewdly feared might be the case if she subjected
him to the scandal of having a mother-in-law
of Mrs. Dorvaux's disposition living
with him. Knowing as I know the delicate
susceptibilities of patients in a place like
Dalebury, in my heart I thought that Fleurette
was right.

And why did you leave Dalebury ?' I
asked, when she had finished her recital.

'Mamma was — ill — there; so ill, I was
obliged to send for a doctor — and I feared
people might learn the cause.'

So that was why Dr. Bush had been called
in instead of John.

Then we came to London she continued.
London is so large, I thought we might hide
ourselves here.'

How often do these — these attacks show
themselves ?' I asked.

Sometimes not for months ; sometimes
twice a month. Oh, do you think she can
ever be cured ? She has been so good, so
good for such a long time! If I had not
gone out to-day, this might never have happened.
Our poor old servant died some
months ago, and I could not trust the new
one, or she might have prevented it. Do you
think she can be cured ?'

I shook my head. I knew too well that
when a woman of Mrs. Dorvaux's age has
these periodical irresistible cravings after stimulants,
the case is wellnigh hopeless. Missionaries,
clergymen, and philanthropists tellus
pleasing and comforting tales of marvellous
reformations, but medical men know the sad
truth.

I was so indignant at the sacrifice of a
young girl's life, that had I spoken my true

thoughts, I should have said, * Leave the
brandy-bottle always full, always near at

hand, so that ' Well, I won't be too

hard on Fleurette's mother. She must have
had some good In her, for the girl to have
loved her so.

We had, as yet, said nothing about John.
That was to come.

Fleurette, I shall write to John to-night.
What shall I tell him ?'

Her black eyelashes were now only visible

What can you tell him ? You promised
to guard my secret.'

I shall, at least, tell him I have found
you, and then he must take his own course.'

Oh, don't let him come here,' pleaded the
girl. ' I could not bear to see him ; and perhaps,'
she added, with a faltering voice, ' he
doesn't care to hear anything about me now.'

Ah, Fleurette, Fleurette ! after all, on some
points you are only a weak woman.

The next day I begged leave of absence
from my partner and patients, and ran down
to Dalebury to tell John the news.

Yet I had little enough to tell him. I was
in honour bound to guard the girl's secret ;

SO all I could say was, I had found her again,
that she was as bewitching as ever, and, I
believed, loved him still. I could add that
now I knew the reason why she could not
come to him, and I was compelled to own it
was a weighty one — an obstacle which I could
give no hope would be removed for many years.
He must be content with that ; it was all the
news, all the hope, I had to give him.

Very well,' said John, with a sigh, ' I must
wait. All things come to the man who waits ;
so perhaps Fleurette will come to me at last.'

Now that I had found Fleurette, you maybe
sure I was not going to lose sight of her
again. I was very grieved to learn that her
mother's circumstances were not so good as
of old. Some rascal who possessed the
widow's confidence had decamped with a
large sum of money. Our Fleurette eked
out their now scanty income by painting on
china, and very cleverly the girl copied the
birds and flowers on the white plates. She
never complained, but to me It was more
than vexatious to think that there was a good
home waiting for her If her mother's faults
would allow her to accept It. Now and again

I would give John tidings of her. He never
sought her, being far too proud to come to
her until she sent for him ; and as in the
course of the next twelve months the unhappy
Mrs. Dorvaux experienced three or
four relapses, I could see little chance of
John ever getting the message for which he
waited. I begged Fleurette to persuade her
mother to enter a home for inebriates, but
the girl would not even broach the subject to
her ; so here was youth drifting away from
John and Fleurette — kept apart for the sake
of a wretched woman, and I was powerless

to mend matters.

"^ "^ -^ "^ "^

But did John and Fleurette ever marry }
You see, this Is not a romance, only a little
tale of real life, and, as such, the only way
out of the deadlock was a sad and prosaic
one — a way for which poor Fleurette could
not even wish. Reformation, I say, as a
medical man, was out of the question.

I hope Fleurette will not read these pages,
in which I am compelled to express .my true
feelings by saying that, a short time after a
year had expired, Mrs. Dorvaux was obliging

enough to die. I say ' obliging ' advisedly,
for sad though it be to think so, her death
made three people happy ; indeed, as her life
was so miserable to her, it may be I should
have said four. Fleurette mourned her sincerely
: all her faults were buried in her
grave, and left to be forgotten. Two months
after her death I wrote to John, bade him
come to town, and, without even warning
Fleurette, sent him to see her. Then he
found that all things do indeed come to the
man who can wait — even the love that seemed
so hopeless and far away.

I don't think John ever knew, or, unless he
reads it here, ever will know, the true reason
why Fleurette refused him and shunned him
for so long. He knows, from what I told
him, that it was a noble, self-sacrificing, and
womanly motive led her to reject his love,
and is content with knowing this. He feels
the subject must be ever painful to his bright
little wife, and has never caused her pretty
eyes to grow dim by asking for an explanation.
There is no sadness now with
Fleurette. She lights up that old red-brick
house ; she is the life of Dalebury, and,

VOL. I 6

moreover, the one woman against whom
Dalebury says little or nothing.

The last time I was down there I rowed
Fleurette a long way up the shallow stream.
Not only Fleurette, but a couple of children
as well — dark-eyed, bonny boys, who chatter
in French and English indiscriminately. As
we passed the spot where the aquatic escapade
took place, I turned with a smile to my
sister ; but before I could speak, she said
beseechingly :

Don't, please — don't. Old memories are
always sad. The present is happy, the future
promises fair — let us forget.'

And as she spoke for a moment I saw the
sad eyes of the Fleurette of old days. Old
memories are sorrowful — let them die !

A STORY.

I MADE Robert Headley's acquaintance in the
auction-room. I am an idle man, and, having
plenty of time, and occasionally a few pounds
to spare, have gradually contracted a love for
bric-a-brac, the pursuit of which enables me
to kill a good many weary hours, and to hoard
up, in the shape of old china, etc., money which
otherwise would be frittered away on equally
useless but less valuable objects.

Headley and I were among the most
regular attendants at Christie's, Southey's,
and other auction-rooms, and, as during the
season of the sales we met somewhere almost
daily, our mutual tastes soon led to an acquaintance.


Headley was a tall, gentlemanly man of

6—2

about thirty-eight, and evidently had studied
the ceramic art deeply. He put me right on
several little matters, and once or twice saved
me from buying spurious productions. As
the true collector loves nothing better than to
show his pet objects to another who understands
and appreciates their beauties, it was
not long before Headley asked me to pay
him a visit for that purpose.

Come early,' he said ; ' then we shall
have time to go through the cabinets by
daylight. Afterwards I will give you some
dinner.'

Headley's house was in a quiet square in a
good, if not the most fashionable, part of
London. I found my host delighted to seeme,
and panting to show his treasures. He
was a genuine member of that species known
as * the enthusiastic collector,' whose passion
for accumulating rarities amounts almost to a
mania ; and I am bound to say that his collection
was one to be proud of. I should tire
the reader, ignorant of those delicate distinctive
subtleties dear to a collector's heart, were
I to expatiate upon the beauties of his old
Dresden, Sevres, Wedgwood and Bentley,

rose-backed Nankin, blue-and-white hawthorn
pattern, etc. I admired greatly, and envied
more.

The collections were arranged with great
taste In suitable cabinets ; and among the
many choice specimens, I think the one that
struck me most was a magnificent old Chelsea
tea-set. It occupied the centre of one of the
cabinets, with articles of lesser value ranged
around It, as though paying homage to Its
superior worth. Leaving out of the question
the beautiful blue and white decoration, the
reticulated gilding and the artistic painting,
the set was the more valuable from the fact
that It was perfect.

Headley seemed pleased at the admiration
I expressed, and said, with a smile :

You, a collector, may not be surprised at
hearing that I nearly bartered my happiness
to make that set perfect.'

I laughed, thinking he was joking, and
replied :

I don't think I would go quite so far as
that ; but I am sure my happiness would be
greater If I owned It.'

So would any man's be. Look at the

painting, the gilding, the shape, the colour !
Feel the texture of it,' he added, taking the
teapot from its velvet-lined nest, and fondly
caressing it with his long white fingers ; ' you
or I could tell in the dark it was Chelsea by
the softness of the paste.'

Where did you get it from ?'

I had the teapot, sugar-basin, four cups
and saucers first. They belonged to my
mother, and, as I told you, I was nearly
paying too dearly for the rest of it. But I
will tell you all about it after dinner, if you
care to hear the story.'

The summer afternoon passed very pleasantly
among the old china, and at seven
o'clock we were summoned to the dinner-table.

I was presented to Mrs. Headley, a charming
young woman of about twenty-eight.
She gave me a cordial welcome, and the
little dinner went merrily enough. We were
served on old Oriental plates ; the spoons
and salt-cellars were of the coveted Queen
Anne period, and the glass was rare old
Venetian. Headley certainly had refined and
expensive tastes, and, it seemed, plenty of
means wherewith to gratify them.

When Mrs. Headley rose she begged us,
pleasantly, not to linger too long over the
wine, as she was all alone.

Your husband has promised me the history
of the Chelsea set,' I said ; ' but, under
the circumstances, I shall ask him to be as
brief as possible.'

If he does tell you, Mr. Burke,' she said,
laughing, ' I shall never, never forgive him,
and it would be impossible for me to look you
in the face again.'

My dear,' said Headley, ' our friend
Burke is a collector himself, and can sympathize
with my weakness. I should never
think of relating it, unless it were to a
kindred spirit who will fully enter into
my feelings.'

After closing the door upon my fair hostess,
I refilled my beautifully tinted glass with
Lafitte, and waited, with some curiosity, for
the promised recital.

Headley commenced :

Of course, it is all a joke now, and I can
well afford to laugh at it, but when the affair
of which I am going to tell you happened, it
was serious enough. The portion of the

Chelsea set I owned at first belonged to my
mother ; she inherited it from her father, and
there its history is lost. When I was first
seized with the passion for collecting, it
naturally formed the nucleus of my cabinet.
Everyone admired it, and envied me the
possession of it. One day — it was after I
had formed a decent collection and was
getting well known as a buyer— Wharton,
the dealer, called upon me to show me a few
things he had picked up in the country. I
drew his attention to my Chelsea ; he
examined it closely, and said : " Very strange ;
I saw the rest of that service a few days
ago." I asked him where, and he told me it
belonged to a lady living at Shepherd's Bush.
Was it for sale ? Certainly not, or he would
not have told me about it until he had secured
it. He had offered to give her a large sum
for it, but nothing would induce her to part
with it. It was, like mine, a family relic,
and as the owner was in no want of money,
there did not seem to be any chance of persuading
her to surrender it. Her name, he
informed me, was Miss Crofton ; her residence,
142, College Road, Shepherd's Bush.

Now, Burke, you will, I know, sympathize
with me when I say that, having discovered
that the rest of the exquisite set
was in existence, I felt that Hfe was simply
intolerable without It, and that at any sacrifice
it must be mine. On this point my mind
was at once made up.

The first thing was to see the china, and
satisfy myself that Wharton had made no
mistake ; so the next day I called upon Miss
Crofton. I found her a pleasant, polite lady
of about fifty, who presented the appearance
of a spinster whose circumstances were very
comfortable. It has always seemed to me
that anything to do with china makes the
whole world kin, and when I explained the
object of my call. Miss Crofton, refusing to
listen to any apology, at once led me to the
cabinet which held the treasure. My informant
had told the simple truth. I had
the teapot, four cups and saucers, and the
sugar-basin ; whilst Miss Crofton was the
fortunate owner of the cream-jug, eight cups
and saucers, and the two dishes. And as,
with dazzled eyes, I gazed on her portion of
that exquisite service, I felt as if a sacred

duty had devolved upon me to reunite the
long-separated ceramic family ; and I knew
I should find little happiness until all the
beautiful members of it reposed safely in
my possession.

Miss Crofton and I soon became good
friends, especially when upon comparing
notes and tracing back the pedigree of the
Chelsea, we decided that at some time my
mother's and her father's families must have
been closely allied. When we had established
this fact to our satisfaction, I ventured
to hint, as delicately as I could, my wish to
possess the china ; then, as she took no
notice of my hints, I was at last compelled
to ask her, point blank, if she would sell it
to me, fixing any price in reason she chose
to. I found, as Wharton predicted, that
the good lady was obdurate, and there I sat
for an hour, with the coveted articles almost
within grasp, yet as far off as the gates of
heaven.

I did not, of course, despair entirely. " I
must manoeuvre," 1 thought. " I will have
it in time, by fair means or foul. I will
make myself very agreeable to her ; I will

show her attentions. Some day I may be
able to render her a service, and her heart
may open with gratitude, and I shall compass
my desire." To-day I could do no more, so
I bade my new-found relative, as I cunningly
called her, an affectionate good-bye, asking
permission to call on her again.

** I shall be glad to see you at any time,
Mr. Headley," she said; *' but we shall
never have any china dealings together, so
you are fairly warned."

I went home feeling very mournful, and
for the rest of that day the eight cups and
saucers, the cream-jug, and the two dishes
were dancing about before my eyes. I sat
down for an hour or more with my own
portion before me. How meagre it looked
now ! I took the pieces out and re-arranged
the cabinet, leaving blank spaces for those I
coveted. I pictured the lovely appearance
the set would present, when the whole of it
was in my hands.

I went to rest quite sorrowful, and the
cabinet, which only the morning before
seemed so well filled, was now empty, or nearly
empty, in my eyes. It is a small thing to say

that I believe I dreamt of Miss Crofton and
her china the whole night. My honesty vanished
as my eyes closed. I stole that china
at least a dozen times. I secreted it in the
most extraordinary places. I buried it for
safety and to avoid detection, but the eight
cups seemed endowed with life, and as fast
as I covered them up with earth, would pop
up in unexpected places. I committed other
crimes for the sake of that china. I deliberately
murdered the unfortunate spinster,
and packed the articles which had urged me
to crime most carefully in a bag. Then the
hue and cry was raised, and I knew that men
were pursuing me, but I dare not venture to
run, lest I should break those fragile things
for which I had endangered my soul. It
seemed to me infinitely preferable to swing
on the gallows than to find one of those
exquisite cups in atoms. Even when the
morning came, and I found that the events
of the night were only dreams, my state was
not very much happier. I could not bear to
look at my cabinet. Something was wanting
there, and until that void which my desire
had created was properly filled, I felt that I

could find no pleasure in my former pursuits.


You, although a collector, may think I
am joking, but I assure you I am not. I
hungered, I craved for that china, and felt
that, were it denied me, my dreams might
some day almost come true.

After the interval of a few days, I thought
I might venture to call upon Miss Crofton
once more. She received me kindly, told
me she was flattered by my paying her
another visit so soon, and allowed me to
handle the china again. I must have been
dull company too, for although I replied
mechanically to her chit-chat, my eyes were
ever turning to those eight cups and saucers,
cream-jug and two dishes. Miss Crofton
could see the bent of my thoughts, for she
said :

" It's no use, Mr. Headley. I will not
sell them, and I love them too much to give
away."

As she spoke a thought struck me. I
would take her to see the tea-pot, sugar-basin,
and the other cups and saucers,
mourning as it were for their long lost

brethren. So I concealed my vexation, and
making an effort to smile, said :

'' I am only admiring, Miss Crofton.
But I should be so pleased if you would
honour me by calling and looking at my
little collection. If so, I will send the
carriage for you tomorrow."

She accepted my invitation, and the next
day came to my house. I took care to have
a choice little repast prepared, of such things
as middle-aged spinsters love, and after we
had discussed it I led her to the room which
held my treasures. All the cabinets save
one were open to her view, but that one I
had covered with a dark cloth. After she
had seen the contents of the others, I led
her before this one, and in a theatrical
manner, with a beating heart, lifted the veil
and revealed my tea-pot, sugar-basin, cups
and saucers, looking beautiful, but sorrowful,
with the vacant spaces around them. I said
nothing, thinking this mute appeal to her
better feelings would do more than any words
of mine. She saw the plot at a glance, and
laughed long and loud, saying, as her merriment
subsided :

" So, Mr. Headley, this is the meaning
of your hospitality ; you expect me to pay
for my dinner with the china ?"

I protested it was only a little hint to
show her how very anxious I was to possess
the remainder of the set, and then I told her,
seriously, how necessary it was to my happiness
and peace of mind to see those void
spaces filled.

No appeal of mine would soften her, and
the eight cups and saucers, the cream-jug,
and the two dishes, seemed as far away as
ever. At last she said decisively :

'^ As you are so bent upon it, I will
bequeath the china to you."

'' And I may have to wait twenty years
for it," I said sulkily, forgetting, in my mortification,
not only politeness, but the affection
I had expressed for my new-found relative.

**'A good deal longer, I hope," she replied.
'* But as you are so anxious, why not
pack up what you have and let me take it
back with me ? You can see it all in my
cabinet whenever you like ; and I dare say
its being there will give me the pleasure of
your company more often.'

But this plan did not suit me at all ; and
finding that my device had failed utterly, I
was obliged to conduct my visitor to her
home in a frame of mind not the sweetest.

A week went by ; but, try how I would,
I could not get that cursed china out of my
head, or resign myself to the disappointment.
I found myself growing worse instead of
better, and, as I fancied my health was
beginning to suffer, I determined to run
down to Brighton in the hope of distraction.
The weather was fine ; I met several pleasant
friends there, and, moreover, picked up one
or two Wedgwood medallions, the soft soapy
feel of which, so aptly compared by Mr.
Gladstone to the touch of baby's fresh, was
eminently soothing and comforting ; and after
a day or two I began to think that in time I
might conquer the absurd craving for what
could not be mine. But even as I was congratulating
myself on the partial recovery
of my senses, I dreamed a dream so horrible,
that I fell back into my former unhealthy
state of mind. I dreamed that Miss Crofton's
maid — a red-cheeked, rough-fingered lass —
had broken two of the cups. I saw her doit

; and suffered agonies from the sight ; also,
to make matters worse, I dreamed that she
put the precious fragments (which might
have been cemented) in her dustpan, with
the intention of throwing them away. I
really think the greatest feeling of pleasure
I had known for many days was to awake
and find it was only a dream.

I hurried back to town the same day. I
could endure the uncertainty, the anxiety, no
longer, and felt that to obtain my desire,
any sacrifice I could make must be made ;
so — don't laugh too much — I resolved,
upon my return, to ask Miss Crofton
to become Mrs. Headley ; and then upon the
day of our marriage the severed set would
be reunited. True, she must be somewhere
about fifty, whilst I was just thirty ; but
from what I had seen of her, I believed she
was a very worthy woman ; and, anyway, the
china would be mine.

You will scarcely credit it, but I carried
out my resolution. Two days later I was at
the fair spinster's side, beseeching her to be
my wife. I could not bring myself to professa
sudden passion for her ; but I told her I

VOL. I. 7

was tired of living alone, and asked her to
share my lot. I said I was well-to-do in the
world, and promised to try and make her
future life a happy one ; and as, whilst
speaking, my eyes rested on the eight cups
and saucers, the cream-jug, and the two
dishes, no doubt I pleaded with a show
of fervour which must have considerably
puzzled the good lady. Like a sensible
woman, she expressed the greatest astonishment.


'* Let me understand you clearly," she
said. '* Do you mean to say you are in
love with me ?"

*' I will make you a good husband," I
replied, thinking as I spoke how beautifully
modelled the handle of the cream-jug was ;
'' and I am sure you will never regret accepting
my offer."

"■ But do you really love me ?" she persisted
^' an old woman as I am ?"

" Seventeen hundred and sixty," I said
mentally, ** that must be about the date it was
made ;" and then I answered, looking at the
eight cups and saucers, and thinking of the
vacant spaces at home : '* I esteem and

respect you highly, dear Miss Crofton, and I
am sure you will make a solitary home
cheerful."

" Suppose," said Miss Crofton acutely, *' I
were to take the poker and demolish that
china, would you still repeat these flattering
assurances of affection?"

*soh, please don't!" I cried, starting up as
the horrors of my dream came back to me.

'' Mr. Headley," she said gravely, " you
will pardon me saying so, but sometimes I am
afraid you are not quite right in the head. Is
there any insanity in your family ?"

'* None at all," I replied.

" Neither your father, nor mother, neither
any aunt nor uncle, shown any tendency that
way f

'not the slightest."

"Very well ; you had better go home now,
and think quietly over what you have said tome.
If, tomorrow, you wish to repeat your
words, you will find me at home all the afternoon."


I left her, and as I stepped out congratulated
myself that she had not accepted me at
once.

7—2

'^'What a fool I am!" I said. ''I shall
always esteem that woman for not taking
advantage of me. I will write and beg her
pardon for my silly conduct, and trust she will
still continue my friend." And yet, in spite of
these praiseworthy resolutions, the sight of
the vacant spaces sent all my good sense to
the winds ; and, to shorten the tale, I went
deliberately the next afternoon to Shepherd's
Bush, renewed my offer, and left the house
formally betrothed to Miss Lesbia Crofton.
She, at least, behaved in a very sensible
manner.

" You say you wish to marry me," she
said, ** and I am getting on in years now, so
cannot, in justice to myself, refuse such an
offer. I have inquired about you, and everyone
who knows you speaks in your favour.
Still, you may regret your choice, so you
shall have plenty of time for consideration.
We will not be married for six months, at
least."

Although, after taking the first plunge, I
should have been glad to go to the depths of
my folly without delay, I felt the wisdom of
her words, and acquiesced in this arrange-merit.

Of course, with the new understanding
between us, I saw both her and the china
nearly every day ; and as Miss Crofton was
an extremely nice woman, I may say I grew
quite to love her — as a mother — and, had
fate not interposed, should doubtless have
married her at the expiration of the time she
named, and very probably should have been
happy enough, after a fashion. One thing
was very much to my Lesbia's credit : she
indulged in no raptures, nor did she expect
any from me. When we met, or parted, I
imprinted a kiss upon her forehead, and that
was all. She even interdicted the use of
Christian-names between us, and stipulated
that our engagement should be spoken of
to no one. Another thing I found strange,
was that she was continually harping, in a
good-tempered sort of way, upon the disparity
of our ages, instead of endeavouring
to make the difference as little as possible.
In fact, she seemed to treat me more as a son
than as a future husband.

Feelings of delicacy prevented me from
asking her to allow me to remove the Chelsea
to my house before I had paid the price due

for it, and I quite blushed with shame when
one day she handed me the key of the cabinet,
and with a meaning smile begged I would
take charge of it to ensure the safety of the
articles I so highly prized.

The course of our affection ran very
smoothly for about a month. I had quite
recovered my health, and I may say was
placidly happy. If, at times, whilst sitting
with my elderly bride-elect, and hearing her,
it may be, complain of some ailment which
she candidly attributed to advancing years, I
did feel a twinge of regret, I had but to turn
to the eight cups and saucers, the cream-jug,
and the two dishes, and it vanished.

But fate and Miss Crofton had other
views for me, although I little suspected it.

According to custom, one afternoon I paid
my usual visit to my future spouse, and was
surprised as I entered the house to hear
the sound of a piano. I know something of
music, so at once became aware that the
instrument was played with great skill, and
much I wondered who the performer might
be. I had not as yet discovered that my
Lesbia possessed musical talent. The maid

Opened the door of the drawing-room, the
music ceased, and I walked in, and found
myself face to face with one of the loveliest
girls I had ever met.

Perhaps the surprise, the contrast, when I
saw her instead of the middle-aged lady I expected
to greet, made this stranger look even
more charming. I could realize only at first
a bright young face, with masses of light hair
around it, turned to see who entered, and a
well moulded figure, showing to great advantage
as she sat before the piano. Her dress
was of simple black, but well and becomingly
made, and as she rose when I entered, I
could see she was over middle height.

Women always behave with less awkwardness
than men in chance meetings ; so whilst
I stood still and stammered out some words
of apology, she advanced with perfect ease
and said :

*' Mr. Headley, I am sure! My aunt told
me to expect you. She has gone out for a
short time, but hoped you would wait until
her return."

I was only too pleased to accept the
invitation so frankly given, and recovering

my self-possession, in a few minutes was in
full swing of chat with my Lesbia's niece.

I found her an unaffected girl, full of
spirits, and looking forward to the pleasures
of a stay in town.

" I suppose you will stay some time ?" I
asked. " Your presence will quite brighten
Miss Crofton's house."

" I shall stay as long as ever my aunt will
keep me," she replied. " Isn't she a dear old
soul, Mr. Headley ?"

I winced, and began to realize that my
situation was a painful one.

" She is so antiquated," she continued,
'rand yet so romantic in many things."

I felt more foolish than ever, and for the
sake of saying something remarked :

" I wonder she did not tell me you were
coming. I suppose she meant to surprise
me.

" I suppose so. But I assure you she has
talked to me a great deal about you, Mr.
Headley. You appear to be great friends.
Quite a flirtation, I tell her."

I coloured up to my ears, but managed to
say :

'^ Then I conclude her report of me has
been favourable."

" I shan't betray her confidence, Mr.
Headley ; and, anyway, It would have no
weight with me, as I prefer to form my own
opinions."

*As I felt we were getting on delicate
ground, I begged her to resume the music
which my coming had cut short.

She played a piece of Chopin's with great
feeling and brilliancy, and then, at my request,
sang a couple of ballads. Her voice
was sweet and well trained — altogether she
was a very charming niece-to-be.

*' Do you play or sing ?" she asked.

'' Neither, unfortunately. I am but an
Indifferent critic, who understands music only
enough to praise when pleased."

** Ah, I forgot ; you are a great china
collector."

And as she spoke, it struck me that this
was the first time I had ever been inside this
room, and neglected to look and assure myself
of the safety and well-being of the cups,
saucers, cream-jug, and dishes.

And as the thought of the china brought

Other thoughts in its train, I felt that I would
give a great deal to know whether Miss
Crofton had told her niece everything. Fervently
I hoped that she had not done so, as
I knew intuitively I should cut a sorry figure
in a young girl's eyes.

During my meditation Lesbia returned,
and instead of appearing jealous and annoyed
at the capital understanding between the fair
niece and future uncle, smiled and said :

'shall I introduce you young people, or
have you dispensed with that ceremony ?"

"Your niece has the advantage of me in
knowing my name," I replied.

" Mr. Robert Headley, let me present
you to Miss Ethel Crofton, my favourite
niece," said Lesbia, with the politeness of the
old school.

" After that unnecessary ceremony I shall
go and dress for dinner," said Miss Ethel
Crofton.

I closed the door after her, and turned to
greet her aunt with the accustomed salute.
Perhaps from the same reason that the china
had lost its charm to-day, I found that semi-maternal
affection was scarcely satisfying

enough, and could not help thinking my
future bride looked very aged.

*' Robert," she said — it was, I believe, the
first time she had used my Christian-name —
'* I should much prefer that Ethel should hear
nothing of our engagement at present. She
is young and giddy, and might not look upon
it in the right light."

I promised secrecy with a joy I could
scarcely conceal. At any rate, Ethel knew
nothing about it as yet.

I dined that evening with the ladies.
Miss Crofton did the honours in a dress of
such antiquated design and material that
Ethel openly rallied her upon it. She herself
was beautiful in pale-blue silk, and I was so
struck by her fair, young bright face, her
pleasant natural manner, that before the
evening was half spent I had fully realized
what an ass I had made of myself.

My visits to Shepherd's Bush, for the
next few days, were as frequent as the most
exacting france could have expected ; but I
am afraid that had my Lesbia been of a
jealous or suspicious nature she would not
have derived the pleasure from them which

she appeared to feel. I no longer sat In the
chair commanding the best view of the
cabinet that enshrined the treasures for
which I contemplated sacrificing myself and
my affections. I was ever by Ethel's side ;
at the piano, turning the leaves of her music ;
reading my favourite poems to her ; holding
her rebels, or winding wool for her. Considering
the tender relations between Miss
Crofton and myself, I must own that my
behaviour towards her unsuspecting niece was
disgraceful. Indeed, had Lesbia thought fit
to pour a storm of reproach upon me, and
order me to quit her presence, she would
have been fully justified. However, she did
nothing of the kind, but sat In her favourite
corner, knitting, and apparently paying no
attention to the flirtation, or something more
serious, which was proceeding under her very
eyes.

Soon matters reached a climax. I could
no longer deceive myself I was hopelessly
in love with Ethel Crofton, and I felt bound
in honour to inform her aunt, and to throw
myself on the fair spinster's mercy before I
made the avowal of my love to Ethel.

I found Lesbia alone one day, so I took
the little key from my waistcoat pocket and
handed it to her.

'' And what is this for, Robert ?" she

asked gravely.

In a shamefaced manner I said :

'' I can't marry you — I love Ethel."

'' Oh, Robert— Robert !" said Miss Croton,

putting her handkerchief to her eyes ;

what can I say to you ? Only a month ago

I was indispensable to your future happiness ;

and yet you forsake me for the first young

face you see ;" and she appeared to sob

bitterly.

" It was the china," I expostulated.

** I see ; and now you think you can have

Ethel and the china too, and prefer a young

bride and old china to an old bride and old

china. Faithless man !"

I lost my temper utterly, and I am sorry
to say my politeness followed it.

** Damn the china!" I cried; 'give me
Ethel, and she can smash it all if she likes.
I don't care."

Women, I believe, under such circumstances
as these, like to hear a man swear.

It shows he is in earnest. Anyway, my
deposed bride leant back in her chair, and
laughed so heartily that I knew matters
would be soon arranged to my satisfaction.
In great delight I caught her in my arms, and
for once gave her a kiss of real affection.

'^ Did you think I was going to let you
marry me for the sake of a few cups and
saucers ?" she cried. '' I am not such a
stupid old woman as that. But in truth,
Robert, I have grown very fond of you, so if
Ethel will have you, take her. But only on
conditions."

" Name them, dear Miss Crofton !" I
exclaimed; "anything — everything you
wish."

*' You must prove the earnestness of your
love for my darling girl, and your recovery
from your temporary insanity, by sending me
your Chelsea as a present. I shall then give
the whole set to the South Kensington or
Jermyn Street Museum."

I mustn't tell you all about our love-making,
or Mrs. Headley would never forgive
me ; but Ethel and I arranged matters very
quickly, and upon my return home that evening,

I opened my cabinet, and almost without
a pang packed my four cups and saucers, teapot,
and sugar-basin, In cotton wool, and the
next morning forwarded them to Miss Croton.
You have seen Ethel, arid I dare say
you think I did not make a bad exchange.'
Here Headley paused ; perhaps he was not
sure what a collector would say to his
conduct.

I should think not,' I said. ' But how
comes the set to be In your cabinet now ?'

The old lady kept me In great suspense
all the time Ethel and I were engaged, and
although I hid my feelings, I soon began to
think that It would be very nice to have
Ethel and the china, but I dared not hint
such a thing to Miss Crofton, who, moreover,
teased me dreadfully by praising in Ethel's
presence my generosity in making her so
beautiful a present.

Whilst on our honeymoon, I thought no
more of it — in fact, gave it up for lost ; and
you may guess my joy when we returned to
town, at seeing In my room a strange cabinet
with the set as you saw it to-day. So I got a
good wife and completed the service as well'

Just then the door opened, and Mrs.
Headley said, with assumed petulance :

Are you gentlemen ever coming ? Aunt
Lesbia is upstairs, Robert, and wishes to see
you before her carriage fetches her.'

Let us go up, Burke,' said Headley, as
we finished the last of the claret ; * and if
you want any more particulars of my Chelsea
mania. Miss Crofton will give them to you.'

At twenty I believed I was sent into the
world to become a second Beethoven — at
twenty-five I was playing the flugel-horn ina
German band, and thought myself lucky in
getting that appointment.

It seems a great drop — a fall from the
stars to the mire ; but as my own particular
fortunes or misfortunes have little bearing
upon the events which I am going to relate,
I need not dwell upon them at any length.
Left an orphan at an early age, bred up in a
small village under the care of an old aunt,
what wonder that the astonishment caused in
the little world around, by the musical talent
of which I gave early evidence, quite turned
my head ? The boy who could play upon all
and every instrument by ear alone, and,

VOL. I. 8

moreover, play melodies which he really
thought at the time were original, was looked
upon by the simple people about as a heaven-born
genius, and naturally felt averse to
earning a prosaic living by commerce. So
exalted was he, in fact, that having acquired
a smattering of harmony, and, through the
kindness of some old friends, a hundred
pounds to give him a start, he felt little fear
of failure when he resolved to wring fortune,
if not fame, from Music, heavenly maid.

How soon a man finds his level in London!
How soon I found mine ! and found, moreover,
that within the boundaries of the
United Kingdom there must be at least five
thousand young fellows each with talents
equal to, if not greater than, mine.

Having learnt my lesson, hard as it was,
thoroughly, the next thing was to find out
how to live. My money was at last spent,
and I think my dreams of success fled entirely
as I changed the last sovereign ; and
then, almost cap in hand, I was fain to wait
upon those great publishers whom in my
dreams I had patronised, and beg for work,
however humble. So then I became a helot,

a drawer of water and carrier of wood to the
divine mistress, Art. I copied scores, I
tuned pianos when I could get that task intrusted
to me ; I gave elementary lessons
when I could find pupils. It was dreary-work,
but somehow for the next few years I
managed to live ; and then, tired of the
ceaseless and unremunerative drudgery, I
sank all pride and donned the gay 
uniform of the Upper Rhine Band,
engaged to perform from May to October
at the rising watering-place, Shinglemouth.

It was a hard life, but I believe not an
unhealthy one, if a man could boast a good
constitution, sound limbs and strong lungs.
Being on one's feet the whole day was the
most fatiguing part of it. It was unpleasant,
also, playing in half a gale of wind, or with
cold drizzling rain falling ; but worse than all
to me were the burning days in July and
August, when the sun glared down upon us
vicious, it seemed to me, at finding his
dazzling rays reflected from our bright brass
instruments. Then I confess I looked with
envy upon the holiday folks for whom we
made sweet music, as they sat placidly under

8—2

the shade of the trees or their own umbrellas ;
and I longed to tear off my close-fitting tunic
and revel in the green sea at my feet. Yet,
in spite of all these drawbacks, after my sedentary
life in London, I was contented and
comfortable enough.

The Upper Rhine Band was not one of
those harrowing little atrocities which go
about with five or six ignorant performers,
braying on battered brass instruments — releasing
one of their number every ten
minutes to go on a begging expedition. We
were a properly organized and fairly musical
company, engaged and paid by a committee of
the townspeople to enhance the natural attractions
of Shinglemouth. Far too dignified
were we to pass the hat round. If our
listeners chose to give, there was a box
placed conveniently for that purpose ; but as
all such vicarious contributions went to the
committee's fund, it mattered nothing to us.

Probably the inner life of a German band
would be without general interest, so I will
only say that our quarters were in a dingy
little street at the back of the fine row of
new buildings on the Esplanade. We lodged

in twos and threes at various small houses.
We met together at a certain hour in the
morning to commence our rounds, and at
nine o'clock at night our duties were over,
our instruments put into their cases, and
each man his own master — free to smoke,
drink, or go to bed, as he pleased.

Although the name we gave ourselves —
The Upper Rhine Band ' — was intended to
stamp our origin as being Teutonic, there
were several in the company who, like myself,
only spoke English ; but as these were
quite as good musicians as their German
comrades, the fraud was a very little one.
My tale concerns no more than two men, so
I need only mention the names of these —
Caspar Hoffman, a German, and Stephen
Slade, an Englishman. The former played
the clarion — an instrument which, in the
constitution of a German band, takes the
place of the first violin in an orchestra. The
latter played that enormous mass of metal
called a serpent.

Hoffman was a tall, light-haired man : his
age was about thirty. His face was handsome,
and bore an expression of great amiability.

His manner invited friendship at
once ; and my strange new life seemed easier
and pleasant to me when this frank young
German chose to discover a kindred spirit in
mine, and insisted upon our lodging and
humming together. It took me very little
time to find out that he was a man of education
and reading, and that his acquirements
were far more than might have been expected
from one in his position. He had lived In
England a long time, and spoke our language
easily, and he told me he was almost as well
acquainted with French. It seemed strange
to me that so well-educated, I might almost
say so accomplished a man, should fill so
lowly a post In the world. Indeed, I began
to weave a little romance about him, fancying
he must be an exiled nobleman or political
offender. When I knew him well enough to
venture to express my wonder, and ask for
an explanation, he laughed a bitter laugh,
saying :

There is nothing to explain, my friend.
My little history is the history of thousands
of my countrymen. The eldest son of a
small farmer ; given an education that

Straitened the means of my people ; sent out
as certain to find employment and fortune
for myself and all belonging to me in your
great London.

Each ! what find I there ? Tens of
thousands of young Germans like myself, all
striving to get into merchants' of^ces and
make the promised fortunes. Everywhere I
offered myself — not even a pound a-week
could I get. Then I began to starve, and
the consul offered to send me back. How
could I return ? Then I found I could make
a living by that gift natural to most of my
countrymen. And now I play the clarion
till Fortune finds me something better
to do.'

Any way, if not a prince in disguise, my
light-haired German was a fine fellow : a true
friend to me when I most wanted a friend,
and a great favourite with all. Even the
surly toll-taker at the pier gates was civil to
him. The nursery-maids, heedless of their
charges, looked upon him with that open-mouthed
admiration usually reserved for the
military ; and, although with trembling I say
it, I have seen ladies whose rank in life

should have forbidden such condescension,
glance with approval at his fine face and
manly figure. Yet when I said above that
he was a favourite with all, I should have
made an exception — Stephen Slade, the
Englishman.

I knew little of this man, and that little
was not pleasing enough to make me wish
for a closer acquaintance. I may say, in
passing, that I am not a bandsman now.
Fortune at last gave the wheel a half-turn,
which placed me at least above such struggles
for a living. At the time of which I write,
I had little enough to be proud of; but,
fallen as I was in the world, there were a few
men in the band with whom I could scarcely
bring myself to associate on intimate terms.
This man Slade was one of them.

The son of the poorest parents, his present
position was to him as much a rise in
the world as it was a fall to Hoffman and
myself. Yet he appeared to be a sullen,
discontented man. Those who knew him
better than I did said he was clever and
crafty, but could be pleasant enough company
when he chose. I never tried to ascertain

the truth of the latter assertion, although
I fully believed the former. I disliked the
man, his appearance, and his ways. He was
broad-shouldered and powerful, although
clumsily and coarsely made. That our dislike
was mutual, I knew : indeed, we had
quarrelled about some trivial matter the first
day we met ; and ever since, I had studiously
avoided him. I felt that the man was of a
vindictive nature, and would do me an evil
turn if he found the opportunity ; but unless
I was foolish enough to be provoked to a
personal encounter, in which his great strength
would be of service to him, I could scarcely
see how he could harm me.

It often pleased him to throw out sneering
remarks about gentlemen and their ways —
intended, of course, for the benefit of Hoffman
and myself. Caspar would parry these
attacks with jesting good-humour and ready
wit, oftentimes raising a hearty laugh from
his listeners at the expense of Stephen Slade.
Yet I knew that even if these merry sarcasms
struck well home, it was for another
cause that Slade hated my friend — that
cause which has ever been answerable

for SO much bad blood between man and
man.

One night, when Caspar and I were sitting
in our poor little room, talking together, and
finishing our pipes before going to bed, Slade's
name was mentioned.

How that wretch hates you !' I said.

So ! hates me ?'

Yes ; I can see him glaring sideways at
you, even whilst blowing his heart out over
his awful instrument.'

Ah, he Is not a pleasant man. Yet I
thought it was you he honoured with his dislike,
not me.'

He dislikes me, and would no doubt injure
me if he could ; but you he hates. I see it
In his look.'

And for what cause ?'

Need we go very far to seek the cause ?
Certainly not a quarter of a mile.'

Casper laughed, but made no reply.

The cause of Slade's animosity lay very
near at hand. Where the corner of our
dingy little street went round towards the
Esplanade was a second or third rate inn ;
not an establishment that for a moment

dared to enter into competition with the
great hotels on the Esplanade, but which
nevertheless did a fair and lucrative business
with the rank and file of excursionists to
Shinglemouth. This inn we had to pass
and repass morning, noon, and evening,
going to and coming from the pier. After
our work was over, many of us, when able
to afford it, were glad to pause and drink a
glass of beer or spirits. The inn was kept
by a widow named Deane — a woman reported
well-to-do in the world, owning, as
she did, the house, and doing good business
there. Now Mrs. Deane had one daughter,
an only child, and reputed heiress to all her
mother s wealth — wealth that, to the German
members of our fraternity, must have seemed
fabulous — a dower almost large enough for
one of the numerous princesses of Fatherland.
This girl, Mary Deane, was really
handsome — dark-eyed, dark-haired, and rich
in colour. She was, I must say, a well-conducted,
virtuous girl, perhaps showing at
times a little of that coquetry which appears
to be inseparable from good looks, when
owned by a girl of her rank in life. As it

seems necessary for their comfort that everybody
of men should raise up a goddess to
adore, Mary Deane, by common consent of
our unmarried members at least, was exalted
to that proud position ; and the amount of
broken but devoted English wafted to her
across the shining counter was enough to
give the girl ear-ache, if not heart-ache. Of
course I ought to have followed my fellows'
example, and fallen in love with her ; but
somehow — and somehow — in spite of all
failures, my dreams had not quite left me,
and genius in a white apron drawing beer
seemed rather out of the fitness of things.
Again, it was not long before I found that my
light-haired German, Caspar, was the man on
whom the girl had set her heart.

Have I written the above lines in a light
vein ? If so, it was far from my intention.
As I picture him now, smiling at the girl
with that frank open smile of his, and
calling up on her face that scarcely disguised
look of pleasure, my thoughts are only sad
ones. Not for a moment did I think that
Caspar was wooing the girl either for her
undoubted charms or possible possessions ;

but, like other men I have known, he had,
without meaning harm, a dangerous knack of
dropping his voice and softening those clear
blue eyes of his when speaking to a pretty-woman
; and if Mary Deane mistook these
symptoms for dawning love, who can blame
her ? You must always remember that in
social standing, and so far as outside appearances
went, there was a great gulf between
her and a clarion-player in a German
band, and she stood on the side nearer
heaven. Yet when Hoffman entered the
house and gave his modest orders, she invariably
came out from the little parlour
behind to minister to his wants — an act of
condescension certainly not accorded to many
of our comrades.

Let Caspar be grateful or not for the favours
shown him, one other man, at least, would
have given much for them ; this was Stephen
Slade.

With all his faults, the man was not a
drunkard, yet at every leisure moment he
haunted the corner house, and in his own
unpleasant fashion wooed the girl. First to
enter and last to leave, he sat and scowled

at' all who interchanged a word with Mary
Deane, till men grew nervous and uncomfortable
under his sullen gaze, and the girl
herself could only escape it by taking refuge
in the private sanctum, where no one was
allowed, on any pretence, to enter. Caspar
alone heeded not his black looks : he was
not his rival, so troubled nothing about them,
but talked as long as he chose to Mary, letting
Slade scowl his blackest at the broad back
which hid his sun from him.

This, I say, was the reason why Caspar
Hoffman had one enemy amongst us.

On that evening when we had the conversation
as above, Caspar, with a sort of mock
gallantry, had given the girl a rose. The act
and his manner were harmless enough ; but
I felt distressed, having noticed the vivid
blush that came to her cheek as she pinned
his gift to her dress, and had now, in truth,
only led up to the subject under discussion
with a view of warning my friend not to make
the girl too fond of him.

So I resumed.

Slade, you must know, looks upon you asa
fortunate rival. He is madly in love.'

Then I am sorry for it. I am not his
rival, although I fear he will have little chance,
for all that.'

But you really ought to be careful. I
don't want to flatter you, but the girl is in love
with you.'

Then I am more sorry yet. I am 
— bespoken. Far away in Vater-land
dwells a little made hen, with eyes of
blue, and flaxen hair. True and tender is
she ; and years, weary years, has she waited
for me. When I can I will send for her, or
else some day I will go back to her, and till
the earth, like my fathers before me, for a
living.'

I said no more, and Caspar's eyes grew
dreamy and far away as he fell into a deep
reverie, thinking, doubtless, of the little German
maiden waiting and waiting for her lover.
Then he sighed, and stretching out his arm,
took his clarion, and played softly, very
softly, a plaintive little phrase. It was very
simple and very melodious. I was struck
with it, but could not remember having heard
it before. I listened attentively as he played
it over and over again. A sad little tune, and

BOUND TOGETHER.

one I should no doubt always have been able
to recall, even if events to come had not impressed
it for ever upon my memory.

Andante con moto.

tempo.

P rit.

tempo.

When at last he laid his clarion down, I
asked him what he had been playing.

A little Lied— 2. setting to one of Heine's

songs.

But who wrote it ? It is quite fresh tome.



A friend of mine, who had dreams once,
such as you confess to, mein Englander, but
who never dreams now.'

You mean you wrote it yourself ?'

He laughed and nodded, and at my request
played his strange little song several times
more ; so that, when at last we went to bed,
I rocked my brain to repose with its rhythm.

The next day, in spite of the season being
summer, was bitterly cold. That evening we
played on the pier, with a keen north-east
wind cutting our hearts out, and making our
scanty audience stamp their feet and clap
their hands, more for the promotion of circulation
than for applause.

I had not been well all the day. I had only
done my part with a great effort ; and when
at length our hour of freedom came, and we
shouldered our music-stands and left the pier,
I think I felt worse than ever I did in my
lifetime. I was thoroughly worn out, and
my one desire was for warmth and rest. Hoffman
and I walked together, as was our custom ;
and without telling him how ill I felt, I said,
as we turned out of the Esplanade :

I am shivering with cold. I think I shall
step into Mrs. Deane's and get a glass of
brandy.'

Very well ; although, after your lecture
VOL. I. 9

last night, you cannot expect me to accompany
you. I shall go home and write a
letter.'

I entered the inn, and found the dark-browed
Slade there as usual. The spirits I
drank seemed to do me little or no good : but
as the gas was lit, I found the warmth of the
room pleasant ; so 1 sat down in a corner,
and, thoroughly ill and tired out, dozed off. I
must have slept a long time, for the sound of
the shutters being put up for the night aroused
me. I opened my eyes, and from the dusk
of my corner saw Stephen Slade leaning over
the counter, talking to Mary Deane, who kept
well out of his reach.

I tell you I love you,' I heard him whisper.
I will slave day and night until I can make
a home for you, if you will give me one word
of hope.'

'Why can't you take your answer, Mr.
Slade ?' replied the girl. ' When you asked
me before, I told you I cared nothing for you,
and never should. Why can't you leave me
alone and go elsewhere ?'

I saw the man's back shaking with suppressed
passion as he said :

If that long-legged cur of a German chose
to speak to you as I am speaking, you'd
give him a very different sort of answer, I'll
be bound.'

The girl's face flushed. 'What do you
mean by insulting me and a better man than
yourself?' she cried, with spirit. ' His friend
is sitting just behind you, so you had better
be careful what you say.'

Slade, who had doubtless forgotten my presence,
faced round and looked at me. I had
the sense to shut my eyes again.

Damn them both for upstarts he growled.
The boy is drunk or fast asleep.' Then, turning
again, he said in a hissing whisper, ' You
mind me, Mary Deane — I'll have you, or no
one shall. If I see that fellow making love
to you again, I'll shoot him like a dog that
he is. I will; I swear it! If it costs me
my life I will.'

The girl laughed scornfully, and without
another word turned her back upon him and
vanished through the curtained door.

After waiting a minute on the chance of
her reappearing, Slade, with a scowl and a
curse at my sleeping form, left the house,

9—2

whence, after a proper Interval, I followed him
and crawled home.

The next morning I should have told
Caspar Hoffman all I had overheard, but
when I awoke I found myself scarcely able
to articulate a word, and suffering from severe
pain in my chest. I was seriously ill — there
was no doubt about it — and, moreover, rapidly
growing worse. That evening I was taken
to the hospital, where I lay for a fortnight,
with inflammation of the lungs. Caspar, like
a good fellow, came to see me every morning
and evening, until within a day or two before
I was pronounced well enough to quit. When
that time came and I stepped outside the
gates, I felt it would be some time before I
could resume my place in the Upper Rhine
Band. Slowly, very slowly, I walked home,
wondering what had kept Hoffman away
from me for the last few days, and looking
forward to the cheery greeting he would give
me when we met. Just before I reached our
house I encountered Stephen Slade. To my
surprise he stopped, and accosting with quite
a show of friendship, inquired after my health,
congratulated me upon my recovery, and even

carried his new-born civility far enough to
beg me to take some dinner with him, it being
now the time allotted for that meal. I began
to think that it might be, after all, I had misjudged
the man — that his roughness was but
external, and his heart beneath as kind as
other people's hearts. However, as I was
anxious to get home and see my friend, I
declined his well-meant hospitality, saying
that Hoffman would be expecting me.

Hoffman !' he repeated. ' Have you not
heard the news ?'

What news ?'

Hoffman has left us — suddenly — without
a word to any one. He has gone back to
Germany, we all believe. Every one thought
you were in the secret.'

So saying, he bade me good morning, leaving
me too much surprised to utter a word.

I entered the room in which Caspar and I
had lived together for the last two months,
and the first thing I saw was a letter lying on
the table. It was addressed to me. I opened
it ; it ran thus :

Dear Friend, —

I am called back to Germany at an

hour's notice, and deeply regret that I
cannot find time to see you again. Please
guard all my belongings, and I will write
telling you where to send them. My prospects
being entirely changed, I shall return
no more.'

Ill, weary, disappointed, and sorely in need
of companionship and sympathy as I was, I
sank down on one of the rickety chairs, leant
my head upon the table, and fairly cried.

The letter was unsigned, but its being
written in that peculiar German telegraphy left
no doubt as to who was the writer. After
our daily and almost brotherly intercourse,
Caspar's abrupt departure seemed almost
unkind ; yet I felt that he was such a true
friend to me, that he must have had strong
reasons for it, and also for withholding his
present address. I could only hope that soon
I might hear from him.

In another week I had recovered my health
sufficiently to enable me to resume my place
among my Teutonic comrades, and found,
upon rejoining them, an idea prevailing that
Caspar Hoffman had inherited a fortune —

hence the reason he had left so suddenly.


I was still weak, and lagged behind the
others as we left the pier that evening. Just
outside the toll-gate I met Mary Deane. I
suppose she must have hidden herself until
Slade had passed by. If I looked ill, she
looked worse. The rich colour had flown
from her cheeks, her lips looked drawn, and
dark circles were round her eyes. Glancing
hastily around, she said, in a sharp, quick
whisper :

I want to see you — I must speak to you
alone. Be outside our house at twelve
o'clock to-night without fail.' Then, without
waiting for any answer, she turned and hurried
away.

Her manner was so emphatic, so earnest,
that I never thought of disobeying her command,
and twelve o'clock found me waiting
outside the corner house. The door opened
stealthily, and Mary, appearing, beckoned mein.
I entered, then, taking my hand, she
led me to the parlour. The gas, turned down
low, made a dreary twilight in the room, and
through it the girl's face looked wan and

ghost-like. I seated myself, wondering what
was the reason of this midnight appointment,
when, leaning over me, she whispered in my
ear :

'Where Is Caspar Hoffman ?'

Caspar Hoffman !' I repeated. ' Why,
gone home to his friends and to fortune, they
say. He left me a letter — read it.' And as
I spoke I drew the letter from my pocket.

She waved it aside without giving it one
look. * He has not,' she said ; ' he is dead —
murdered — and that man has murdered him.'

'You are dreaming, or you must be mad.'

I am not. I know it. I am sure of it.
He threatened to do so the night you were
taken ill, and he has done it now. When or
how I know not ; but every time I see his
black face and wicked eyes I can read the
deed there. Oh, my Caspar ! my bonnie
Caspar ! I will find out the truth.'

But his letter to me — it is written as a
German writes. Look at it.'

She turned upon me with something like
contempt in her voice.

*And would not a man who murders forge
also ? Has he never seen'a letter written by

a German ? Ah, Stephen Slade Is a cleverer
man than either you or Caspar ever suspected.
Do you know Caspar's handwriting
?'

I was obliged to confess I could not remember
having seen It.

Then I say that letter Is only a forgery,
written to deceive us. He has killed him.
I know It. He comes to me In dreams, in
more than dreams, and tells me so. You,
who call yourself his friend, aid me In bringing
his murderer to justice. Oh, my Caspar ! my
Caspar !' and she threw her arms across the
table, and leaning her head upon them, sobbed
convulsively.

The girl's passionate words, excited manner,
and, above all, absolute, unswerving belief in
her wild statement, greatly impressed me.
Her dark suspicions were Infectious ; and as
my former opinion of Slade again reasserted
itself, I began almost to think that her horrible
fancy might have some foundation. It
may have been my Ill-health, or the mystery
of this midnight meeting, that induced me to
give any weight to her words ; but, any way,
I promised to leave no stone unturned, but

try and ascertain whether Hoffman had really-written
the letter, and whether he had gone
back to Germany or not. Calmed, apparently,
by my promise, she bade me good night.

As she opened the door for me to go out —
as her hand lay in mine — as I was looking
into her great dark eyes, shining through the
dusk — solemn at one moment with the horror
they pictured ; fierce at another with fire of
revenge — as we stood thus, I say, a sound
came on the night wind — a sound that sent a
tremor through me and made the blood in
every vein run cold with unspeakable fear.
And I knew, from the way in which her
fingers closed on mine, that as I heard it and
trembled, so it was with my companion. It
was nearly one o'clock. The street was deserted
by all save ourselves. So quiet was
all around, that we could catch the dash of
the waves on the shingle, audible, even at
that distance, through the stillness of the
summer night ; and then — soft, yet clear and
well defined — rose, as it were close to us, a
strain of plaintive music. So close it seemed,
that I turned instinctively to see the player ;
but we were alone in the street, which.



although dimly lighted, held no recess where
one might hide ; and I felt, soft as the music
sounded, it was not distance that diminished
the power of the notes. Whoever or whatever
produced it, was almost within arm's-length.
And bar after bar of the strange
music came sighing to us, until at last I had
recovered sense enough to understand the
language of the notes, and then my fear was
linked with horror, for this was the melody
that fell upon my ear :

Andante con mo to.

W

•ztzii-ot

H-:3Ei

poco rail.



'.•-9^

tempo.

^ ' "^^ZZi f rate.

0.

lr=]:

:# •:

MM

Over and over again I heard the pathetic

tempo.

little phrase floating, it seemed, in the air
around me ; at times so low that I could
scarcely say I heard it — at times so clear and
distinct that I turned again and again to
detect the player, but each attempt was
futile.

Many minutes did Mary Deane and I
stand, hand in hand, listening with all our
power, neither speaking nor trying to speak,
until the notes grew fainter and fainter, and
finally died into the silence of the night, and
the distant murmur of the waves was the
only sound left. I looked into the girl's face,
but said nothing. '

You heard it ?' she whispered.

I nodded assent — my agitation was too
great for speech.

I did not tell you before,' she said ; ' but
I have heard it three times. But never so
clearly or for so long as to-night. What
does it mean ? Tell me.'

I do not know,' I replied ; and then with
an effort added, ' let us meet here again tomorrow
night at the same hour, and try and
find out its meanings.'

She assented, and closed the door as I

turned away towards my home. Agitation Is
no word to express the state of my mind ; for,
although I dared not tell Mary Deane so, the
unearthly melody that came sighing so softly
to us that night was that same plaintive little
air that Caspar Hoffman had played to me
the last time we had sat together in the
room which now, without his cheery presence,
seemed so desolate.

I knew not what to think — what to do.
My sleep that night was restless, broken, and
dreamful. All sorts of horrors came to me,
but running through and In some way entwined
with every dream was that haunting
melody. The figures in my visions moved
to Its notes ; their voices, when they spoke,
kept time to them. I seemed to breathe to
their rhythm ; and glad I was when I awoke
altogether and found it was broad daylight.

Somehow I dragged through the next day,
studiously avoiding Stephen Slade's eyes, lest
he should read in my look the growing but
as yet undefined suspicions I felt my eyes
must utter. At half-past nine I threw myself
on my bed and slept with my clothes on for
three hours. At one o'clock I was waiting

outside the inn. There was no moon, but
the stars were bright above. I had not long
to wait ; the girl soon appeared, and closed
the door behind her. Her head was covered
with a thick hood which almost prevented
recognition.

We shook hands, and, without a word,
waited with nerves intent on catching the
first strains of the mysterious music, if indeed
it should be again audible to us. For sometime
we listened in vain, and I was just on
the point of saying, ' It must have been our
fancy,' when close at my right hand arose the
plaintive and familiar strain. Mary's cold
fingers stole trembling into mine as, in spite
of last night's experience, I turned sharply
round, feeling convinced that some bodily
player must be close by.

Up and down the street I looked, but we
were alone, and yet the notes lay on the air.
Now they seemed at the right, now at the
left, now behind, now in front — departing,
returning, circling around, yet ever with us.
I am not ashamed to say dread — mortal
dread — came over me, as with a mournful
monotony I heard, over and over again,

Caspar Hoffman's sad little melody sighing
through the night, whilst, with her hand ever
in my own, the girl and I stood still, knowing
neither what to do nor how to account for
the phenomenon. At last, in an awe-struck
whisper, Mary Deane said :

It is Caspar playing. I know it is — I feel
it. What are we to do ?'

The sound of her voice recalled my reasoning
faculties, and, unbeliever as I had ever
been in the supernatural, I felt now that it
might be for some weighty reason we were
permitted to hear this strange music on these
two occasions. I was brave now ; fear had
left me. I was only eager to learn what
message the music bore.

I drew my companion's arm through mine.

Let us move up the street a few paces, and
see if the music follows us,' I said.

We did so, but after walking some twenty
yards could hear it no longer. Then we returned
to the spot where at first we stood,
and the notes sounded as before. We then
walked a little way in the other direction, and
yet we heard the melody : farther yet we
went, and it was with us ; farther and farther

yet, right to the end of the street, and yet it
kept near us. We turned to the left, and
heard it not. We retraced our steps, and
took the road to the right, and clearly we
heard each note once more.

We neither were frightened now : my
companion, like myself, had caught the
meaning of the music. It was not accompanying
us, nor following us, but, as a bird
might, hovering before us — guiding us for
some purpose, to some end, although we
knew not to what or whither it might lead
us. The girl seemed transformed. Her
step grew firm and sure ; her arm trembled
on mine no longer. She turned her wild
eyes to mine, and said, almost in exultation
:

I knew it — I knew that music meant
something. Listen ! it calls us to follow,
and it will lead us on and on until we learn
the truth. Yes, my Caspar, my love,' she
continued, speaking in a softer voice, as if
addressing one near at hand — ' yes, follow it
we will, even to the ends of the earth.'

She said no more ; and silently, for what
seemed hours, we followed as the music led

US. All fatigue had left me, and every nerve
was strung with excitement and curiosity.
Far along the main road we went, turning
neither to the right nor the left, with the
music ever circling and floating around us,
but ever advancing, as the mother bird that
seeks to draw the stranger from her nest and
its treasure. On and on for perhaps three
miles It led us by the road, till, glancing
back, I could only see the lights of Shingle-mouth
dim in the distance. Then the notes
stayed, and near us was a gate. We passed
through It, and the music passed before us.
We entered a grove of pine-trees, with which
the country round about Is thickly studded.
Spectral and weird the trunks looked as they
threw their straight shadows on the light
brown ground beneath, carpeted many inches
deep with cast needles. The pungent aromatic
odour of the pines perfumed the air,
and to this day that odour sets my heart
beating with the memories it evokes. Then
out again to the open, with nothing between
us and the clear stars shining overhead.

We were now on the sward that stretched
away towards the sea-cliff. There was no

VOL. I. 10

road, not even a footpath over the springy
turf ; but on and on our feet were led, straight
as the crow flies — the girl's step ever falling
in unison with mine, and as firm and resolute.
Gradually we seemed to be bearing across
the downs towards the sea ; and I was
wondering whether our destination was the
sea-coast, when I found we were descending
the side of a deepest hollow. We reached
the bottom, which was thickly covered with
large-sized stones, and then with one accord
we stopped short, for we heard the music no
longer. Suddenly as it came, so it went ;
one moment we heard it, as we had heard it
for so long, close at hand ; the next, and nota
sound broke the stillness of the night. I
raised my eyes and peered around. Just in
front of us was a small, square, grey building
; old and venerable it looked, like a ruin
of some sort. The sides of the hollow in
which we stood sloped upwards towards its
roof, which seemed almost on a level with
the higher ground. As I knew but little of
the neighbourhood round about, I turned to
the girl.

Where are we ?^ I asked.

At the old lime-kiln, about five miles from
home.'

Is it worked now ?'

No ; it hasn't been worked for years.
No one ever comes near it.'

What shall we do now ?'

I shall wait,' she answered decisively.

Wait !' I echoed ; ' for what ? The
music has left us. It has led us here, but
perhaps can do no more. Its mission is accomplished.
Let us return by daylight and
try if we can find out anything.'

No matter — I shall wait. You can leave
me if you like ; I am not afraid.'

This was entirely out of the question ; so,
finding persuasion useless, I determined to
make the best of it. After all, some inner
voice which I could not hear might be telling
the girl what course to take. I pressed
her no more, but begged her to sit down and
rest herself, and upon her complying, seated
myself beside her and longed for the morning
to break.

And thus we sat and waited — neither
speaking — both listening for the weird music
to come again for our guidance — sat until I

10 — 2

feared we should be numbed with cold, for
we were not far from the sea, and the night
was chilly.

Being summer-time, the nights were very-short,
and with joy I saw at last the welcome
greyness tempering the eastern sky. With
the coming dawn a mist seemed to be gathering,
and a cold wind began to blow in from
the sea. I was shivering, and suggested to
my companion, who sat motionless as a
statue beside me, that it would be well if we
took shelter under the side of the lime-kiln.
She made no remark, but rising, followed
whither I led her. I placed her as comfortably
as I could ; and then, pressing her hands
on her eyes, she sat silent, ever thinking, I
well knew, of the man she loved.

The morning was now fairly breaking ;
and I was resolved, as soon as there was
sufficient light, to thoroughly examine the
place, and ascertain if what I dreaded to
think of might be hidden there. I had even
risen to begin my investigations — quietly,
without disturbing my silent companion,
thinking that whatever fearful discovery was
to be made had better be made by me alone

when the noise of a stone rolllno- down
the declivity and falling with a slight crash
upon its fellows at the bottom drove all the
blood back to my heart. Grasping Mary's
arm, I forcibly pushed her back into the
darkness cast by the side of the lime-kiln, as
through the grey mist of the morning a
man strode down into the hollow and stood
within a few paces of us ; and as he stood
there, for a moment we heard once more
the melancholy notes that had led us sofar.


The girl clutched my arm with an energy
almost painful.

See,' she whispered — * see, there is
Caspar's murderer, led here, as we were led,
for us to know and accuse.'

And the man standing there with pallid
face and distorted features, with great drops
of sweat rolling from his forehead, was
Stephen Slade. Had he looked our way he
must have seen us, so close we were to each
other ; but all his attention seemed to be
riveted on one spot, the entrance to the disused
kiln, now almost hidden by a pile of
stones. He was breathing hard and quick,

and stood gesticulating, shaking his fists and
glaring in that one direction.

Devil ! devil !' we heard him mutter,
why will you not rest in peace and leave me
alone ? Three times has that cursed music
drawn me here against my will. I hate you
dead worse than living.'

Then, as if with an effort, he turned away
and began to retrace his steps. As he moved,
the girl broke from my hold and sprang after
him. Her hood had fallen back, her long
dark hair streamed loose about her shoulders,
and her eyes from under her black and
knitted brows gleamed like fire — an avenging
fury she looked, claiming blood for blood.
Heedless of the consequences, she grasped
his arm and cried with a shrill voice, 'Murder!
murder !' I had followed her, both to protect
and assist her : but as I did so, the
danger of bearding this desperate man flashed
through my brain like lightning. As he felt
Tier touch, I think he screamed with horror,
and with a livid face staggered back, seeming
about to fall. So helpless he appeared, that
I believe had we then and there thrown ourselves
upon him we might have bound him

as easily as a child. We let the opportunity
slip, and the delay was fatal. In a few moments
he had recognised us ; then, knowing
he had to deal with mortals like himself, not
with avenging spirits, the man's horrible
courage and ferocity came to his aid. His
cruel eyes met mine in the early twilight ;
and well, from their expression, I knew what
was coming, and framed an inward prayer for
deliverance.

So you have spied and tracked me,' he
said. ' You two, at any rate, will never tell
the tale. I can make room for both of you
beside your friend.'

Then, with fell murder written on his face,
he came towards me, and I braced myself for
the struggle — the struggle which I felt was
hopeless.

Slade, as I said before, was a broad-shouldered
man of great strength. What
chance could I have with him, broken as I
was with sickness, and worn out with the
night-watching ? I had no weapon, not even
a pocket-knife. Fly, and leave the girl to
his mercies, I could not. Truly, death
seemed very near to me at the moment when

I felt those muscular arms thrown round me,
and my ribs bending beneath their strong
grip. I was an infant in his hands. Yet I
was not altogether unaided. Bravely the
girl stood by me, tore at his arms, at his
face, to make him release me. It was but
for a moment, however. He loosened his
left arm, and, with one backward sweep of it,
hurled her, stunned and senseless, upon a
heap of stones. 'You and I will have
another kind of reckoning by-and-by, my
pretty maid,' I heard him mutter as he closed
with me once more. Death was very, very
near me now. Backwards and forwards we
swayed, then we fell together — Slade uppermost.
I was utterly exhausted, and could
struggle no more. The ruffian tore himself
from my feeble grip, and kneeling on my
arms, pressed his thumbs upon my throat
As I lay helpless, I could look straight into
his wicked eyes, but saw no gleam of mercy
or relenting there. In three seconds my
head felt bursting, sense was failing me ; I
seemed to be trying to articulate these
words, ' How lor — ri — able — to — die — like
this !' when — waking, dreaming, or dying — I

heard close, close to me, the wail of Caspar
Hoffman's Lied — the same ghostly music
that had led us to this spot, and brought the
murderer face to face with us. And as I
heard it, I knew I was saved. Slade's villainous
grip on my throat relaxed ; I breathed
once more ; and although too far gone to
move hand or foot to save my life, I could
see the ruffian rise, stare around him in a
bewildered manner, then, muttering like one
in a dream, and with a face as set as a somnambulist's,
ascend the side of the hollow,
and vanish over the level ground. Then I
fainted.

When my senses returned I found Mary
Deane kneeling beside me and chafing my
hands. She had not been much injured,
and upon coming to herself found me lying
dead, as she thought, and Slade gone.

We were too much exhausted, indeed, too
much terrified, to make any investigation
that might solve the mystery of the night.
Painfully we dragged ourselves over the
downs until we reached the main road ; then,
having removed, so far as we could, all
traces of the recent deadly struggle, managed

by the aid of a passing waggon to reach
Shinglemouth before its inhabitants were
astir.

What could I do now ? My only course
seemed to be that of going to the police and
accusing Slade of the murder of Hoffman.
I could give no common-sense reasons for
the accusation, but I might beg that the
lime-kiln be searched, and the man kept insight
at least during the operation. It should
be no fault of mine If Slade escaped justice.
And so I went.

The inspector whom I saw was rather a
friend of mine, and gave me an attentive
hearing. Upon learning the gist of my
errand, he said :

You are an hour too late. The man is
in custody now, upon his own confession.
Says he murdered him and stuck the body in
the entrance of the lime-kiln, making a heap
of stones in front of it. We thought him
drunk or raving — kept on talking about
music that was driving him mad. Any way,
he's here safe enough, and some of our men
have gone off down coast to find out whether
his tale is true or false.'

And true enough they found it. Three
hours afterwards I saw all that remained of
my light-hearted German friend ; and two
months afterwards Stephen Slade was hanged
at Dorchester gaol.

He simply confessed to the murder, but
would enter into no particulars. Plenty of
circumstantial evidence was forthcoming to
establish his guilt, but it was never ascertained
how he decoyed his victim to that
lonely and distant spot. A pistol-bullet
through the breast told the way In which
the deed was done, and that was all.

Slade died sullen and Impenitent. The
prison doctor thought there were grounds
for a reprieve, as the man was for ever talking
wildly about music he, but no one else,
could hear. This was, however, attributed
to the profession he had followed, not to
higher causes ; so, as he had no friends to
take up his case, and as his character was not
such as to enlist strangers in his favour, no
steps were taken to mitigate his sentence,
and he met the fate he fully merited.

Since that night I have never heard that
ghostly music. Its mission was no doubt

accomplished when the mysterious power it
wielded caused the murderer's hand to drop
nerveless from my throat, and drove him,
cruel, remorseless and impenitent as he was,
to make confession of a crime that might else
have remained undiscovered, and to reveal
the tragic end of Caspar Hoffman.

Chapter I.

The waves were tumbling in heavily on
Oversea beach. It was too dark to see the
white line of surf from the row of houses
which fronted the sea, but the sullen roar of
each wave as it broke, and the sharp crash
of the shingle as it followed the retreating
flood, were audible at a much greater distance
off than Marine Parade. The wind
blew in fierce gusts, sending the rain against
the window-panes like a whip with a thousand
lashes falling at the same moment.
No one, except, perhaps, a passionate poet
with a raging heart, and a constitution good
enough to defy cold and wet, would, of his
own free-will, be out of doors on such a night
as this.

The Rev. Cuthbert Wrey, curate In charge
of St. Nicholas, that Httle galvanized Iron
offshoot of St. Mary's, Oversea, was not a
poet ; therefore, he felt heartily glad when
he arrived at the door of his lodgings in
Marine Parade, without having been flattened
by the force of the gale against the low walls
and railings which enclose those wind-swept
little gardens facing the sea. He was afraid
to unbutton his mackintosh to get at his
latch-key — let the wind have one fair chance,
and he expected to find the garment stripped
from his shoulders and blown Into ribbons —
so he knocked, rather Impatiently, at the
door.

*An awful night, Mrs. Roberts!' he said
to his landlady, when, by dint of united efforts,
they had closed the door and barred out the
uproarious wind.

'Yes, sir; an awful night,' replied Mrs.
Roberts, taking the dripping mackintosh and
broad-brimmed hat. ' So awful, sir,' she added
apologetically, ' that I thought It better to
read a sermon at home, instead of coming to
hear you this evening.'

Quite right. Did you more good, I dare

say answered the curate pleasantly, and as
one whose belief in the efficacy of sermons
was not unassailable. * I'm sure I wouldn't
have gone to church to-night, if I could have
helped it.'

Mrs. Roberts looked grave at hearing such
sentiments proceed from the cloth.

Your tea is quite ready, sir,' she said.
Would you please take off your wet boots
before you go up ? They mark the stair-covering
so, and washing is so expensive.'


The Rev. Cuthbert complied. He went
upstairs in his stockings ; and having
changed sundry dripping articles of attire,
drew his chair to the table and commenced
his tea or supper, or whatever the meal might
be called.

Curates are not a well-paid race, and the
stipend allotted to the curate of St. Nicholas,
in return for the assistance he gave the
rector of that dreary little watering-place,
Oversea, was hardly enough to provide
delicate fare, such as induces people to linger
over their tables. He ate his cold meat with
a healthy appetite, drained out the last drop

from the teapot, filled his pipe, and rang for
the tea-things to be cleared.

You may leave the kettle, Mrs. Roberts,'
he said. * I think, after my wetting, I may
Indulge In a glass of hot whisky and
water.'

Quite right, sir said the landlady. ' Ah,
It's on a night like this one pities the teetotalers.'


All extreme people must be pitied, Mrs.
Roberts,' said the curate, smiling. ' But bring
another glass with mine, and I will give you
some.'

Although the good lady murmured something
about only taking spirits twice a year,
a second glass made its appearance, and she
left the room with the materials for a comfortable
nightcap in her hand.

Cuthbert Wrey pushed back the table,
wheeled his chair in front of the fire, put his
feet on the fender, and clasping his hands
behind his head, sat watching the smoke
curling from his pipe. He felt that if any
man had a right to enjoy perfect rest that
evening. It was the curate of St. Nicholas.
He had conducted two services, and attended

the afternoon classes. He had visited his
sick, and, so far as he knew, done all that
duty demanded of him. Now let him take
his ease for an hour or two. He saw nothing
to interfere with it, unless the wind should
blow the windows in.

Cuthbert Wrey was a man of about
twenty-eight, tall, muscular, and good-looking.
His features, although strongly marked,
were not irregular ; indeed, a very little more
would have made him a remarkably handsome
man. Perhaps he looked at the worst,
as we see him now with his face in repose.
Its expression was not quite a happy one.
It bore at times a kind of dissatisfied look —
a look which, it seemed, might soon grow
habitual. His brows had a trick of frowning
until they almost met, and at the same time
the corners of his mouth fell in a slightly
scornful manner — whether in scorn at the
world in general, or himself in particular, it
is doubtful if he could have determined.
Anyway, his face was not exactly the face of
a happy, successful, or contented man. Yet,
when he spoke — even when another's affairs
occupied his mind, and he was not thinking

VOL. I. 1 1

of Cuthbert Wrey — this expression completely
vanished. His words were kind, and
the smile which accompanied them always
frank and pleasing as the words themselves.
Altogether, he was a great favourite with both
the rich and poor of Oversea.

He did not look very clerical as he sat in
the shabby armchair. His long black coat
had been replaced by a comfortable loose fitting
garment, a relic of his Oxford days ; sad
enough in its decay, but not in its hue.

Well-earned as his rest was, he did not seem
to enjoy it much. He gazed on his smoke-clouds
for a honos time, and the dissatisfied
expression on his face deepened. Then he
sighed, and releasing his right hand, swept it
round with a kind of hopeless gesture. His
arm was a long one, and, in the circuit it
made, came in contact with the black sermon-case
which he had deposited on the mantelpiece,
and which contained the discourse he
had so recently delivered to the scanty congregation
who had braved the weather. It
fell at his feet ; and with a grim smile on his
fiice, Cuthbert let it lie.

It is no use,' he said, looking at the ill



treated sermon, and apparently addressing his
remarks to it — ' it's no use. How can I expect
to convince others, if I can't convince
myself? I wrote that sermon for myself; I
preached it for myself, not for my flock ; yet
I am more full of doubt than before. The
hard work, the penury, I did not mind, until
I began to doubt. There must be an end to
this. Why did I take orders ?' he continued,
looking fiercely at the passive sermon-case.
Why did I take orders ? Now, to answer
that question, a man must know himself better
than I do. I had to make my living in one
profession or another. I was ambitious, and,
I believed, clever. The Church was easy to
enter, and I may have fancied there was a
career there for a clever man. It was no
wrong to think this ; for in those days I believed
I could do my duty as a clergyman.
Then my frame of mind at the time !' — here
his eyes grew sad and his voice dropped.
Margaret had just died. She never knew I
loved her ; but I knew it. And then, Travers
— ah, Travers, Travers, my friend ! with
your sweet childlike trust in every old tradition
— your silvery tongue — you are answer

1 — 2

able for my mistake. Those walks together,
those arguments of yours, the fervid eloquence
of which so moved me, that for a
time I could see all things by your own light !
And you, I hear, were last month received
into the bosom of Rome. You will scarcely
blame me. Certainly, in leaving the Church,
I shall not be accused of self-interested
motives. I have nothing in view. On the
other hand, I don't make much sacrifice.
Fifty shillings a week is not a great Income
for a man to earn. I will set about making
the change at once.

Well, Mrs. Roberts, what is it ?' he asked
testily, as his landlady knocked, entered, and
cut short his meditations in a moment.

Some one from '' The Folly," sir, with
this note.'

Mrs. Blatchford is worse, I suppose,' said
the curate, opening the note. It contained a
few hastily written lines from the doctor : ' I
am afraid Mrs. B. cannot last out the night.
She is anxious to see you. Come at once.'

Poor woman !' ejaculated Cuthbert. ' So
much better she seemed yesterday, and now
dying.'

Is she, indeed, poor thing ?' said Mrs.
Roberts, with a sympathetic face.

Yes ; I must go at once.' He took off
his lounging-coat, preparatory to assuming his
clerical garb. * I don't know how I shall get
there through this weather.'

There is a carriage waiting, sir.'

Then go down, and say I shan't be a
minute.'

Cuthbert attired himself as quickly as he
could. Then, with a half-sigh, he took his
pocket communion-service, and prepared himself
for the solemn duty before him. ' I wish,
he said gravely, * that this sacred rite was to
be performed by some one who does not reek
of tobacco like I do.' He felt it no grievance
to be ■ called from his fireside. Duty was
clear enough, and no doubts harassed him
on that score. He would have gone as willingly
to the poorest member of his congregation,
or of anyone else's congregation, who
needed his aid, as he went to the richest lady
in Oversea, as Mrs. Blatchford was reputed
to be. He spoke a pleasant word to the
coachman, who sat, a shapeless bundle of
wraps, on the box, and entered the brougham,

which drove off as fast at the horses could
draw it. It was not at a great rate of speed,
for the road was steep and the gale still at
its height, blowing the reins into graceful
curves, beginning at the driver's hands and
ending at the horses' bits ; even at times
threatening to overturn the carriage entirely.
The dying woman lived in a large house on
the top of the hill overlooking Oversea. In
whatever part of the town you stood, you
could see that house. When first built, it
had been christened some high-sounding
name ; but that name had long since vanished.
Nicknames often cling to people and to things
much longer than their proper names, and for
years this house had been known as ' The
Folly,' or sometimes as ' Barnes' Folly.' The
original Barnes, from whom it derived this
distinction, was a sanguine man, who had
imbibed the notion that, with proper treatment.
Oversea was destined to become one
of the most fashionable seaside resorts in
England. He was a tradesman who had
made money in the place, and claimed for it
natural advantages which few others could be
persuaded to see. His theory was, that if

suitable residences were erected, people of
station and importance would flock to them.
The feeling was patriotic, honourable, and
ruinous. He tested the truth of it by building
a huge house on the very top of the hill.
It cost him several thousands of pounds, and,
when finished, no one could be tempted either
to buy it, or even to rent it. Lacking a
tenant, Mr. Barnes lived there himself for
some years — he could scarcely be said to
occupy it ; being a bachelor, his belongings
and himself barely filled a corner. By-and-by
some other speculations went awry ; Mr.
Barnes was ruined, and died eventually in the
county union. Then the mortgagee took
possession, and finding another sanguine
man, sold him the house for about one-third
of the sum it cost Barnes. After that it made
a few intermittent, spasmodic, and unavailing
efforts to earn a livelihood. At various times
it was a boarding-house without boarders, an
hotel without guests, a school without pupils,
and a hydropathic establishment without
patients. Then it gave up the battle, and
for several years lay void and lethargic — its
only use in the world being that of serving asa

capital landmark to the Channel pilots, or a
warning to speculators who might fancy that
Oversea could be made anything of.

Shortly after Cuthbert Wrey entered upon
his duties as curate of St. Nicholas, Barnes'
Folly took a new start. The gossip of the
place said that a rich widow, now the owner
of the deserted mansion, had made up her
mind to reside in it. It is not clear how
Mrs. Blatchford became possessed of such
an undesirable property ; probably it was byway
of mortgage ; but it had been hers for
several years, and her intentions were as
gossip asserted. The shuttered windows
were once more opened; painters, plasterers,
and paper hangers spent a busy and profitable
three months in the house ; van-loads of
furniture arrived, and Barnes' Folly was
again inhabited.

As no one save an eccentric person would
have lived from choice in such a house, the
Oversea folk were not surprised at finding
that Mrs. Blatchford was eccentric. She
was a widow of about fifty-five — without, sofar
as people knew, son, daughter, or near
relative. She was haughty as a Spaniard,

proud as Lucifer, and cold as the east wind.
She lived in dreary solitude in the big house,
neither going into society nor entertaining
company. That she was rich, was self-evident
; but no one knew the true extent of
her wealth. To those of her own station
with whom chance brought her into contact,
she was repellent polite ; to her inferiors,
she was rigidly just. She subscribed to the
various local charities in a severe, businesslike,
but substantial manner ; and, although
living alone, her establishment was conducted
on a liberal scale most comforting to the Oversea
tradesmen. She drove about in her great
carriage, a stately solitary lady ; and with the
exception of Cuthbert Wrey, no one in the
neighbourhood could be said to stand on
terms of friendship with her.

Curiously enough, between Mrs. Blanchard
and the curate something very much
like friendship had for some years existed.
As in duty bound, he had called upon her
shortly after her arrival. It may be, his
natural manner and pleasant words made an
impression upon her — anyway, he had not
found her so stern and repellant as she

appeared to her other visitors. A little while
afterwards, he had been able to render her a
trifling service, or so it appeared ; but which
had in all probability saved her house from
becoming the prey of burglars. Since then,
the solitary lady had shown him decided
marks of her favour. Cuthbert was a gentleman,
and if a very poor one, perfectly independent
— far too much so to let the rich lady
imagine she was in any way condescending
by showing him friendship. Moreover, he
was a clever, clear-headed man, such as a
woman likes to consult when any difficulties
arise in her business affairs. So Mrs. Blanchard
found not only his society entertaining,
but, on occasions, his help and advice valuable.
Thus it was that he was the one
person she seemed glad to see ; and for a
long time he had been, if not the only visitor,
the only welcome visitor at The Folly.

On his side, when he had penetrated the
veil of reserve with which she covered herself,
Cuthbert found her an intellectual, well-informed
woman. From chance remarks, he
decided that her nature had been spoiled and
her life soured by some great grief ; and he

soon found that she possessed an iron will,
and determination to have her own way at
any cost. Yet she was not exacting or unreasonable
; and to him, whose interests could
in nowise clash with her own, she appeared a
sincere, if somewhat undemonstrative, friend.
It can scarcely be said that he loved her —
her nature was not a lovable one — perhaps it
was good-natured pity for her loneliness that
induced him to visit her so often, and to
trouble himself about her affairs. Certainly
it was with no thought of personal advantage,
unless it were for the use of her well-stocked
library ; although malicious people — chiefly
Dissenters, who knew not Cuthbert — wagged
ill-natured tongues, and prophesied that one
day the strangely assorted pair of friends
would forget the disparity of their years.

During the last few months it had been
the man's turn to want an adviser. His
doubts as to his fitness for the profession he
had chosen needed to be ventilated. Each
day, the feeling that he must no longer
remain in the Church grew stronger and
stronger ; yet he dreaded taking the final
step. Mrs. Blatchford had given him good

counsel, and advised him to act as honesty
of purpose impelled him. Only the day before
she was taken ill, she had said, with
more feeling than he had ever known her
exhibit :

'(Mr. Wrey, you are my friend — perhaps
my only friend. I can see you are troubled.
Make an end of this, and be yourself once
more. I am as fond of you as I am of anyone
in the world. I am old enough to be
your mother. If you want money for a fresh
start in life, you must take it from me.'

Cuthbert had declined the offer, firmly but
gratefully. If he left the Church for conscience'
sake, he must make some sacrifice, or he would
not feel right in his own mind. Still, he was
glad to think that this stern, proud woman
was so kindly disposed towards him.

Since that day, he had not seen her. The
next day she was taken seriously ill, and
doctors and nurses were summoned. Of
course he had called regularly until to-day,
when his duties had been so heavy he could
not find time to mount the hill. And yesterday
he had heard she was so much better.

The horses struggled bravely to the top of

the hill on which The Folly stood, braving
the fury of the storm. A grave servant,
whose face spoke of impending calamity,
showed Cuthbert into the library, where the
doctor joined him.

She has been delirious all day,' he said,
calling for her son.'

Her son ! Has she a son ?' asked Cuthbert,
surprised.

She must have ; and by the way she
talks, I should think he had been but little
joy to her. Consciousness returned about
an hour ago, but it means the end. She
asks for you continually, and you are barely
in time. Come with me.'

He was barely in time. Mrs. Blatchford
was dying fast. Her aquiline features were
sharp and drawn ; but her face bore a softer
expression than Cuthbert could remember
having seen upon it. He knelt beside her
and took her hand. Seeing she strove to
speak, he leant his ear close to her lips.

Under my pillow,' were the only words
he could catch.

He put his hand as directed, and drew
forth a letter addressed to himself.

Shall I read it ?' he asked softly.

The slight movement she was able to make
was a negative one. Cuthbert again bent
down to catch her faint words.

Read it,' she gasped — ' after my funeral —
alone. Promise — swear you will obey it to
the letter.'

So far as I consistently can, I swear — I
promise, on my honour as a gentleman.'

His words seemed to satisfy her. He felt
the faintest pressure of her fingers ; then,
like one who has done with worldly things,
she sank once more into stupor. The doctor,
until now, had, from feelings of delicacy,
drawn aside. He came near and shook his
head ominously. Nothing more could be
done.

Yet she awoke again. Her fingers tightened
round Cuthbert's, and her disengaged hand
seemed trying to find him through the darkness.
She even spoke again; and her voice,
although faint, was distinct and passionate.

My son — my only child ! You have come
back at last — at last ! But it is too late ! I
forgave, but I could not forget. I have done
it for the best, darling. — He is a true man,

and will keep his oath. — Good-bye ! You
have come back, and I fear nothing.'

So Honoris Blatchford died, happy in the
merciful delusion that the hand she held was
that of the son with whom, years ago, she
had parted in anger, and whom she had never
since seen.

Chapter II.

CuTHBERT rose, and gently disengaging his
hand, left the room. The letter he placed in
his breast, wondering even in his grief what
the contents could be. He waited downstairs
until the doctor joined him.

We can do nothing else,' that gentleman
said. ' Let us go home.'

The carriage was in readiness, and took
them to their respective abodes.

Poor woman !' said the doctor, as they
parted ; ' what a dreary, lonely death. She
seemed to have no friend except you. If you
know her lawyer's address, you had better

telegraph the first thing in the morning.
Who are her near relatives ?'

She has none. She told me once her
relatives were all distant ones, and she liked
none of them. I will telegraph, as you suggest.'


You will be certain to come in for a
good thing,' continued the doctor, rather
enviously.

Cuthbert started. He had not considered
the probability, and felt annoyed at the
remark.

I neither believe nor expect it,' he said.
We were friends, and that is alL'

'Well, wait and see. Good-night, if you
won't come in,' said the doctor, as the carriage
stopped at his door.

Cuthbert went to his room, raked together
his smouldering fire, and for a long time sat
thinking over the deathbed scene. He felt
truly sorry at the loss of a friend, and, withall
her peculiarities, a true friend ; yet, in his
sorrow, he could not help wondering what
could be the contents of that mysterious
letter lying before him. It must have been
written when Mrs. Blatchford was in good

health, as the writing on the cover was firm
and powerful. Well he knew that plain but
characteristic handwriting — just the sort one
would have expected from a stern and strong-minded
woman. But speculation was idle ;
for some days he must remain in ignorance of
the wishes he had so solemnly promised to
see carried out ; so he locked the letter in his
desk in company with the maltreated sermon,
which Mrs. Roberts had picked up and
reverentially placed on the table ; then,
feeling worn-out with the work of the day,
he went to bed and slept an untroubled
sleep.

At an early hour next morning Mr. Harding,
solicitor, Lincoln's Inn Fields, learned
that one of his best clients was dead ; and by
the first possible train he made his appearance
at Oversea. He looked rather curiously
at the curate as they met, and his manner was
polite, if not deferential. Cuthbert was glad
to see the legal adviser appear so promptly,
thinking his advent would shift all responsibility
from his own shoulders.

And what day will you fix for the funeral,
Mr. Wrey ?' asked the solicitor, after hearing

VOL. I. 1 2

what little there was to hear about his client's
rather sudden death.

What day will I fix?'

Yes. If you don't know It, I may as well
tell you that unless Mrs. Blatchford has made
a fresh will within the last few months — a
most unlikely event, as we were entirely in
her confidence — entirely — unless she has
made a new will, you are the sole executor.'

I am !'

Yes, you ; and I may add, a beneficiary to
a considerable extent. Our client was a
strange woman, Mr. Wrey — strange and
eccentric ; but perfectly sane — perfectly
sane.'

No one who knew her could doubt that.'
No — fortunately, perhaps, for you — no.
The will is In duplicate. You will find one
copy in her secretaire ; the other is at our
office. For form's sake, you had better ask
her relatives, although they are but distant
ones.'

I don't even know their names, so must
leave it all to you, Mr. Harding.'

Then I will send you a list. Saturday
would suit me very well, if you wish me to

come down and pay the last tribute of respect
to my poor client — I may say friend

Saturday be it, if it rests with me,' replied
Cuthbert, who was longing to be alone in
order to digest Mr. Harding's intelligence.

What did it mean ? The lawyer's enigmatical
and impressive words — the promise
given to the dying woman, and in the background
the sealed letter ? He thought about
it long, earnestly, and anxiously. He guessed
that the dead hand laid some heavy burden
upon him, and he longed to know what it
might be, feeling that no weight could be
heavier than the suspense he must endure
during the five days which must elapse before
he could open that mysterious letter. But
again and again he vowed, as a true man, he
would carry out in their entirety the wishes of
the dead woman, though he longed for the
day to come when he might set his mind
at rest as to what was required of him.

It came at last. He had followed Mr.
Harding's instructions, and cousins bearings
the name of Blatchford, and cousins bearing
other names, assembled in Oversea. The
rector, as was due to his richest parishioner,

1 2 — 2

performed the ceremony, which, for the convenience
of those who came from a distance,
was fixed as late as the Hight would allow.
Then the mournful party assembled in the
large dining-room at The Folly, and Mr.
Harding read the will. It was short — very
short. If any of the hearers fostered hope, it
only lived through fifty lines of clerkly writing
on a sheet of foolscap. The testatrix kept no
one long in suspense. A few generous but
not absurd legacies to old servants, a couple
of charitable bequests, and then — whilst the
most stoical of the relatives held his breath or
fidgeted in his chair — the whole of the residue,
real and personal, to my friend, Cuthbert
Wrey, clerk in holy orders — he to be
also sole executor. That was all ; too plain,
too simple, not to be fully understood by the
most commonplace intelligence. There was
no outward evidence of disappointment, no
outcry, no passionate or scandalous scene.
No cousin had been sanguine enough to
think his chance worth much, and each one
had the consolation of knowing that if he got
nothing, his kin were in the same plight. All
had been prepared for disappointment. For

many years Mrs. Blatchford had held little
communication with her family. She had
responded, as a duty, to any appeals for
assistance made by the most needy members;
but no one had been foolish enough to expect
the reversion of any part of her wealth. Sc,
after all, the Rev. Cuthbert Wrey was the
most astounded of the party.

He seemed dazed. He scarcely heard the
lawyer's whispered congratulations or his old
rector's outspoken ones. He bowed mechanically
as the majority of the cousins filed from
the room. The very magnitude of the bequest
told him that something lay behind the
words of the will. Had he been given five,
ten, even twenty thousand pounds, he might
have recognised it as an act of generous
friendship. But all — everything ! The dead
woman's last words rang in his ears ; the
letter, lying in his desk at home, rose before
his eyes. Whatever that will might say,
Cuthbert knew that Its true meaning lay in
that sealed cover, and his only wish was to
get home and learn his fate. He could bear
the uncertainty no longer. The only persons
left in the room were the lawyer, the rector,

and two little knots of antagonistic cousins,
who had recovered from their surprise, and
were conversing in low but excited tones at
opposite windows.

I feel bewildered,' he said, rising and
draining a glass of wine. ' I must go home
and think it over quietly.*

Quite right, my dear boy,' said the rector,
whispering as he shook hands : ' Don't trouble
about tomorrow. I will take the whole service
at the church, and Tinley shall come
round to St. Nicholas.'

I dare say you will run up to town and
see me next week,' suggested Mr. Harding ;
'or, if you like, I will come down again.'

Yes, yes ; I will come up,' said Cuthbert.


Then he left the house, and walked home
to Marine Parade.

He went to his room, shut and locked the
door, then took out the letter. From force of
habit, he wheeled his chair round to its usual
position in front of the fire, and prepared to
set his mind at rest as to the true value of the
will which he had so lately heard read. He
had actually torn the cover open — in another

minute he would have known all — when a
temptation rose, stood before him, and stared
him in the face — a temptation so perfectly-organized,
with each feature so sharply and
clearly defined, that it might have owned a
palpable and tangible form. Should he destroy
the nni^ead letter' ?

Cuthbert Wrey, like every other son of
Adam, had many times in his life been
tempted to sin, error, or folly ; but never as
yet to commit an act which would in his own
eyes and in the eyes of the world rank as
base dishonour. His first sentiment was that
of surprise — surprise at such a thought presuming
to invade his brain — so, in scorn and
anger, he bade it begone and trouble him no
more. But the thought remained — it remained,
and every moment gathered strength,
purpose, and cohesion. It spoke with thrilling
words ; it woke old dreams ; it unfolded wings,
and bore him to the top of a mental mountain,
and bade him gaze on the future and the
glories thereof ; whilst, lij||e a strange rhythm,
the words of the will beat upon his ears :
All my real and personal estate to my dear
friend, Cuthbert Wrey.' He sat motionless,

the half-opened letter in his hand, In front of
him the glowing coals, which in three seconds
could reduce the paper he held to tinder.

The thoughts, the ideas, the visions which
crossed his mind during the hours he sat there,
unable to do what was right, and unwilling todo
what was wrong, would fill a book. He
knew enough of his friend's affairs to guess that
the wealth of which she had to dispose was
great. It was not a question of a few paltry-hundreds
which tempted him ; nor, to do him
justice, was it the possession of great riches.
It was the career those riches would open to
him ; for, although not a brilliant success in
the calling he had chosen, Cuthbert Wrey
had not lost faith in himself or his talents. It
was not common greed that assailed him,
although the stake, he knew, was a large one.
He saw himself freed from a profession for
which he had no love ; he saw wealth open
the doors of public life to him, and the dream
of younger days realized. He even saw himself
famous and wielding power. Yes ; from
the pinnacle which commanded the future,
the winged thought showed him all this, and
more ; urging him, for the sake of these things,

to laugh at scruples, and to turn his back on
what men call honour. And hour after hour
he sat with beads of perspiration on his brow,
the letter trembling in his trembling hands ;
whilst below him, and so near, the fire threw
out little spits and darts of flame, as though
urging him to commit the secret to its keeping,
and let it be hidden for ever and ever in
the depths of its wicked red heart.

He yielded again and again in theory ; but
he could not bring himself to do so in deed.
However the conflict might end, there was
one thing he felt he would not do — he would
not read that letter before he destroyed it.
Its message should perish with it. If he
committed crime, he would remain in ignorance
as to its extent and influence on other
people's destinies. Only if right and honour
conquered, would he read. So he sat on
and on, making a good fight — sat until the
fire died out. He would not trust himself to
replenish it, and almost laughed as a fantastic
thought came to him — how sullen and disappointed
the half-burned cinders looked.

But the candles were living, and would do
the work equally well. With a great effort

of will, he rose and extinguished them. For
some time he sat in darkness ; then he found
himself searching for his matches. Too well
he knew why he wanted them. He struck
one with an unsteady hand. It went out,
but not before he caught sight of his white
changed face reflected by the mirror.

Shall I see my face like that all my lifetime
he muttered, ' if I do this thing ?'

He threw the match-box from him.

Yet the letter was still in his hand. It
was as easy to tear it to pieces as to burn it.
Although still mistrusting himself, he was
growing stronger every minute. He groped
his way to the secretaire, placed the letter in
its former resting-place, turned the lock, and
went to bed.

In the morning he was himself again, but
feeling — if the mind may be compared to the
body — as he had sometimes felt after a hard
bout of football at Rugby — although rested
and refreshed, with a sense of fatigue and
recollection of a severe struQ^Q^le still lingering.


I will never laugh again at old Luther's
battle with the devil,' he said, almost humbly.

I see how easily an Imaginative and superstitious
man may believe in his personality.'

Cuthbert Wrey never forgot that night ;
ever afterwards he was lenient, perhaps too
lenient, with transgressors ; but before he
condemned, he thought of that glowing fire
and the unread letter trembling in his hand.

After breakfast he took the letter, and in a
calm business-like way sat down to read it.
It was something like he had anticipated. It
was dated some months back, carefully worded
and written :

My dear Mr. Wrey,

^ To-day I have made my will. If I
judge you rightly, no one will be more surprised
than you at its contents. I leave you
all ; but I leave It in trust. Years ago, my
son, my only child, left me — or I should
rather say I cast him off. The life he had
led amply justified this step. But he is my
son yet. I love him ; but I dare not leave
him money to work evil with. Where he is,
I know not, having neither seen nor heard of
him since we parted In anger. He may be
changed, or he may change. If so — If you

are satisfied that he is living even the life of
an ordinary man, the Income arising from my
property must be his. If he marries, or Is
married, all must be settled on his children —
all except five thousand pounds, which I beg
you to accept as a token of friendship.
Should my son be dead before me, and
leave no children, take my wealth and use It
as your own, and may It bring you greater
happiness than It has brought me. I trust
you In this as few women of my age have
ever trusted a man. If I urged you to keep
faith, I should show doubt, and this letter
would be waste-paper. You will read this
after my death, and will, I am pleased to
think, regret a little your friend,

Honoris BlATCHFORD.

^ Pes. — His name Is Ralph.'

It was as he had Imagined — coupling her
last words with the delivery of that letter
she gave with one hand and took away
with the other. Knowing Mrs. Blatchford's
character so well, he could read plainly
between the lines of that letter. He could
see the pride which had kept her to the text,

but not to the spirit of a determination which
she had vowed should be Irrevocable. However
much her son had wronged her, she
had forgiven him in her heart ; but having
sworn she would not leave him a penny, had
In this extraordinary way compounded with
her self-respect.

Although the passing dream of great wealth
must come no more, Cuthbert could only feel
thankful. He could with a clear conscience
accept the five thousand pounds, the interest
on which would give him about double the
Income he now enjoyed. He could free himself
from his bondage, and make a fresh start
under easy circumstances. So he felt very
grateful, and vowed that the Instructions that
letter contained should be followed to the
best of his ability. That Ralph Blatchford
was dead, never entered his mind. He would
hear of his mother's death, and make his appearance
— next week, next month or next
year, according to the distance at which his
tent was pitched. Whether he would be fit to
be trusted with the money or not, must be an
after-consideration. The decision would bea
great responsibility ; but he hoped, after

last night's struggle, to be able to judge
fairly. For himself, he was now a free man,
with five thousand pounds ; and Cuthbert
went that evening to the little galvanized iron
apology for a church, and preached his last
sermon with a thankful heart.

After such a turn of fortune's wheel, no
one wondered at his leaving his profession
immediately. Legal matters were settled ;
the will duly proved, and although caveats
were threatened by sundry relatives, the
threats came to nothing; and Cuthbert Wrey,
to all appearance, stepped from a curate's
stipend of one hundred and twenty pounds
into rents, dividends, and interest, amounting
at the least to four thousand pounds a year ;
and as yet Ralph Blatchford had made no
sign.

By Cuthbert's instructions, the notice of
Mrs. Blatchford's death was inserted in the
newspapers of nearly every civilized country.
Then, as nothing was heard of the wanderer,
the notice was changed into an advertisement
requesting Ralph Blatchford to communicate
with Messrs. Harding and Co., Solicitors,
etc. Several impostors responded to it, and

told Incredible tales, but were in turn dismissed.
So months went on, and readers of
newspapers in all parts of the world found
the repetition of the same advertisement
growing monotonous and a trifle irritating.

Cuthbert meanwhile lived in London,
occupying Inexpensive rooms, and determined
to limit his expenditure to the interest
on the sum to which he was morally entitled.
He strove to keep himself from building
castles which might be shattered any moment.
He had entered for the bar, thinking that
was the best opening for his ambition. The
few people who knew him, and were acquainted
with the terms of the will, wondered
at his mode of life. Why should a man of
his wealth wish to adopt a profession ? He
told no one, not even his solicitors, under
what reservation he held the property. He
worked hard, for it was his nature to do so,
and managed to live contentedly enough fora
year, willing to resign everything when
called upon so to do. Then, gradually, he
began to grow unsettled. No word or tidings
came of Ralph Blatchford. Another year
passed ; and then, only then, Cuthbert Wrey

thought — perhaps hoped — that Ralph Blanchard
was known not in the land of the living.

After this, the advertisements appeared at
intervals only. Still Cuthbert feared to enter
into his kingdom.

I will wait another year,' he said. * Then
I shall be a barrister. If he turns up by that
time, I will try and succeed as an advocate ;
if not, I must believe he is dead.'

In due time he was called to the bar ; but
never held a brief nor appeared in any
court. Ralph Blatchford was still unheard
of; and Cuthbert made up his mind to use
and enter into full enjoyment of his strangely
acquired wealth.

Chapter III.

Ten years have passed by. It is now the
middle of August, and Parliament has some
days been prorogued. The Member for
Blacktown has gone down to his country-seat
to spend a few weeks in absolute quiet and
enjoyment of home ; for although public life
sadly interferes with domestic virtues, he is a

home-loving man. He is still young ; has
plenty of confidence in himself, and is content
to wait his time; trusting that when his
chance does come, he may know how to use
it. Yes, Cuthbert Wrey, the member for
Blacktown, is not only an ambitious man,
but, so far as he has gone, a successful one.

He has been in Parliament about seven
years. He could scarcely believe the truth,
when he found his first attempt successful.
No one knows exactly how candidates are
brought forward and matters managed ; but
if a man chooses to drop a hint to the proper
people that he is willing, at his own charge,
CO lead a forlorn hope, it is not so very long
before he is allowed to do so.

Upon leaving the Church and taking possession
of Mrs. Blatchford's wealth, Cuthbert's
one aim had been the Senate. He devoted
CO this the three years' income which had
accumulated whilst he considered the inheritance
in abeyance. Of course he had to wait
his chance, and that chance when offered to
him, seemed so slight that he looked upon
fighting the borough of Blacktown as advantageous
only because it grave him a certain

VOL. I. 13

claim on his party for the future. It was a
bye-election, and, hopeless as it seemed, was
to be contested on principle. He went down
to try his best. Several chances favoured
him. The principal man in the place, his
opponent's chief supporter, turning sulky over
some trifling social piece of legislation, not
only kept Achilles-like to his tent, but gave his
dependants free license to vote as they chose.
The Government, again, had selected as a
candidate a man who was so clever that they
wanted his assistance, but who had, nevertheless,
made himself so unpopular, that he
had been already rejected by two constituencies.
They thought that Blacktown was a
safe seat, so sent him down there. Perhaps
the free and independent electors resented
this, perhaps the man with great local Influence
did more than abstain from voting —
anyway, Cuthbert was returned by a decent
majority, and walked up to the table of the
House amid frantic Opposition cheers, as the
harbinger of the returning flood of power.
At the general election, which followed in
about two years, he was returned by an overwhelming
majority. He had made himself

known and popular, and more than that, the
sulky man had now thrown his lot in with
Cuthbert's party, and, like all renegades, was a
bitter foe to his former faith.

We need not follow his Parliamentary
career. Of course he was still in the second
rank ; but his name began to be heard in the
mouths of men. He had kept himself before
the public. His speeches were listened to,
and, what is more, reported at length. He
had made one or two hits, and people knew
that when his party were in power he would
fill one of the lesser offices. More than this
he had no right to expect — at present.

Cuthbert has changed somewhat since we
first saw him. Although in many ways the
past years have improved him, he shows
traces of hard work. His hair is sprinkled
with grey, and there are lines of thought on
his broad forehead ; but he looks stalwart
and strong enough to face any amount of toil
and fatigue, whether bodily or mental. An
erect, strongly built man, with a powerful but
pleasing face, and possessing the knack of
winning, not only the confidence and trust
of one or two persons, but that of large

audiences. Indeed, he Is looked upon as one
of the safest and best men of his party to
address a large gathering of people. He
speaks well and easily ; his logic is simple
and goes straight to the point ; he possesses
a commanding presence, and, moreover,
argues as from honest conviction. He is
now forty-one — quite young, in a political
point of view ; and if Cuthbert Wrey, whilst
smoking his morning cigar under the shade
of his favourite tree, sees in the immediate
future very pleasant probabilities, who can
wonder ?

In spite of Mrs. Blatchford's wealth, she
had possessed no residence save Barnes'
Folly. Cuthbert had not made it his home ;
although to this day it remained his property,
and unproductive as ever. He had purchased
a small estate in the west of England ; and
that, except when Parliament was sitting, was
his home. It was little more than a comfortable
country-house with well-kept gardens
and a small park. He had no wish to set upas
a county magnate. His honours were to
be won amid the bustling strife of cities ; but
he loved his home and those who filled it.

He sat lazily skimmlno^ yesterday's paper.
Being some distance from a post town, letters
only reached him once a day. As the newspaper
gave no account of debates, his interest
in it was but languid. The weather was so
fine that he felt little inclination for work,
although he knew that a pile of letters awaited
him indoors. He looked the picture of placid
content as he sat in the shade of the large
sycamore tree. Few would have imagined
that idle gentleman in a soft slouch-hat and
old shooting-coat, whose thoughts seemed
centred on the excellent cigar he was
smoking, to be a rising legislator, who hoped,
some day, to take an important part in the
government of his country. When Cuthbert
settled down to rest, he did so as he did
everything else — thoroughly ; he rested mentally
and physically. A clump of arbutus hid
the house from him, so there was nothing to
disturb his even frame of mind. So comfortable
he felt, that he resolved to postpone his
correspondence until the evening — to sit and
simply enjoy the sunshine and shade as long
as he could.

Then, with the sound of merry laughter,

four children ran round the arbutus bushes.
They came in single file, headed by a sturdy
boy of nine, and whipped In by a toddling
female thing of three. They Invaded and
clambered on Cuthbert, treating him as an
equal, with a happy Ignorance of the important
position he occupied In the world. In
breathless delight they Informed him they had
'ruined away.'

Then a tall and beautiful lady appeared,
shaking her head with mock severity at the
culprits. ' You rascals !' she said, * coming
out and disturbing your father like this. —
Shall I send them in, Cuthbert ?'

Let them stay,' he answered pleasantly.
We don't see too much of each other in the
course of the year. Public life and domestic
duties don't walk hand In hand.'

His wife leant over and kissed him.

How delightful,' he continued, 'this perfect
rest and quiet ! No dismal speeches to listen
to ; no questions to ask the right honourable
gentleman ; no bores airing grievances. The
very birds following our laudable August
custom, and lapsing Into silence. Here I am
safe even from constituents, deputations, and

petitions. I could almost wish It might last
for ever

Yet how you will be longing for work
again before the recess is over !' said Mrs.
Wre}^ almost sadly.

That, my dear, is man's perverse nature.
Anyway, I enjoy myself now, if only in the
perfect immunity from interruption and bother.
I wish you would burn all my letters — unopened
— for the next week.'

How strangely a chance word brings up
old memories ! The remark he made about
burning unopened letters sent his thoughts
back a dozen years. Even now his face grew
grave as he remembered how nearly he
had yielded to the temptations of a certain
night.

Just then a servant appeared and informed
him that a 'person' wished to see
him.

A person ! What sort of a person ? Manor
woman ?'

A man, sir.'

You told him I was not to be seen by
any one on business ?'

Yes, sir. But he said he had travelled

from Bristol expressly to see you on a private
matter, and hoped you would spare him a
minute.'

Cuthbert's first impulse was to send that
person about his business ; but the old priestly
habit of being at everyone's disposal still
lingered about him ; so, disengaging himself
from the children, he tossed the end of his
cigar away, and walked across the lawn to
the house.

The servant had used the term 'person'
with propriety. The visitor seemed to merit
rather more than the definition * man ;' but
no servant knowing his duties would have
announced him as a gentleman. A thickset,
strong, weather-beaten fellow, with the look
of a sailor about him — a sailor dressed in unconventional
shore-clothes. His age might
have been about the same as Cuthbert's,
although exposure to wind and weather made
him look some years his senior. He was
waiting in the library, and, as the master of
the house entered, he rose, making an uneasy
sort of salutation. Cuthbert bade him reseat
himself.

Now, what can I do for you ?' he said.

The man looked uncomfortable, and waited
a few moments before he spoke.

I am speaking to C. Wrey, Esq., M.P. ?'
he asked, evidently thinking the magic letters
should be attached In conversation.

Wants something, of course,' thought
Cuthbert, as he owned to his name and
honours.

*C. Wrey, Esq., M.p,' continued the
person. * That's the name, sure enough. I
wrote it down at once.'

Well, go on, my man. Let me hear what
you have to say.'

It's like this, sir, you see. I came down
from London to Bristol by express. They
don't put third-class on express, so I had to
get in with my betters.' [' Railway grievance,'
thought Cuthbert.] ' Well, sir, there were
two or three gentlemen there talking politics ;
they talked a deal about you, sir.'

Cuthbert was not overwhelmed at hearing
of this tribute to his fame. His visitor went
on. ' '* Extraordinary clever fellow," says
one. — " A conceited chap," says another —
begging your pardon, sir. I didn't pay much
heed, as I don't know much about politics.

Never had a vote to sell. But, by-and-by,
one of 'em says : " Used to be a parson,
starving on a hundred a year." — '' Very rich
now," says another. '' How did he get his
money ?" — " Old woman named Blatchford
left him ten thousand a year, lucky fellow !"
says another. Then I got interested, Mr.
Wrey.'

Cuthbert also was growing interested.
An absurd thought crossed his mind, to be
dispelled as he looked more attentively at the
speaker.

Well, go on,' he said.

'Would you mind telling me, sir,' asked
the man respectfully, ' if that Mrs. Blatchford
ever had a son named Ralph ? Blatchford
isn't a common name, you see.'

It was some years since Cuthbert had been
troubled by a claimant to the name of Blanchard,
but he had not forgotten how to deal
with them.

Now look here, my man,' he said sharply ;
'don't beat about the bush. If you are going
to assert that you are Ralph Blatchford, who
has been kept away all these years by unavoidable

circumstances, say so at once, and
I shall know how to treat you.'

The man looked at him in open-mouthed
astonishment. He laughed aloud, then said :

Lord love ye, sir! I'm not Ralph Blanchard.
Bad chap as I've been in my time, I'd
be sorry to have been such a one as him.
But, bad as he was, Ralph Blatchford always
looked what I don't, a gentleman. He's
been dead and buried this fourteen years.'

Cuthbert had felt convinced of this for
many years ; but he was not sorry to have
clear proofs of his death.

'When did he die ?' he asked. ' How did
he die ? I have been trying for years to
ascertain his fate. What proofs have you of
his death ?'

The man gave a sort of chuckle.

I don't know about proofs, sir ; but when
you've seen a fellow with a ounce bullet making
a hole in his lungs big enough to shove your
two fingers into, I guess you don't want
much more proof, or burial certificate either.'

'Very well. If you saw him die, tell me
all about it.'

'Isn't much to tell, sir. I was down at

San Francisco fourteen years ago this autumn.
—Know Trisco, Mr. Wrey ?'

Cuthbert shook his head.

Ought to know 'Frisco, sir. 77/^ grandest
city in the world, but chock full of villainy.
Somehow, all the scum of the universe turns
up in 'Frisco. Suppose that's how I got
there,' he added, rather sadly. ' Well, sir,
one night I went into a drinking and
gambling shop, and sitting down there, I
saw Ralph Blatchford. I'd known him elsewhere,
you see. Up I went to him and held
out my hand. 'why, Mr. Blatchford," I
said — for Dandy Ralph was always above
me in manner. — He scowled. " My name
ain't Blatchford," he said.— '' All right," I

said. " Let your d name be what you

like, it don't matter to me." Then I walked
away ; but I couldn't help keeping an eye
on him. He sat down with some men and
played cards. He seemed to be winning.
They were playing euchre. — Know euchre,
Mr. Wrey ?'

Cuthbert's education in this direction had
been neglected. He again shook his head.

The speaker continued, slowly and meditatively,

as though endeavouring to solve a
mental problem as he proceeded :

Now, this is what puzzles me about
Ralph Blatchford. He must have been a
fool — although we always thought him a
smart clever chap — to go and play a stale,
worn-out trick on men like that. He must
have been downright desperate, or fancied
they would never expect him to insult their
intelligence with such a poor affair. Anyway,
he miis^ have been a fool.*

Did he cheat ?' asked Cuthbert.

They all do, when they can,' answered
the man simply. ' But he was clumsy at it.
There was a flare-up ! Out came the .
I sat down as low as I could in
my chair — always do that, sir, when you see a
porringer drawn — and when I looked up in
two seconds, Ralph Blatchford was a dying
man.'

What a place !' said Cuthbert, with a
shudder.

Well, it is a hasty, sudden-death sort of
a place ; but not so bad as you guess. If
that card hadn't been found on him, the man
who shot would have been strung up, and his

kicking all over, in less than ten minutes.
But the card was there, sure enough, so no
one could say anything

What a death !' said Cuthbert, as his
thoughts went back, and he heard the last
words of affection and forgiveness spoken by
Honoris Blatchford to the one whom she believed,
in the delirium of the moment, to be her
penitent son — her son, who, months before,
had been shot down, a common cheat, in a
gambling house — ' what an end !'

But all doubts were now dispelled. He
turned to his visitor.

I am much obliged to you,' he said, 'for
your information. What became of him, has
always been a mystery till now. You must
allow me to remunerate you for your trouble,
and I dare say you will like some refreshment.
I will order it to be sent to you.'

His visitor had not quite finished his tale.

Thank you kindly, sir,' he said. ' I don't
want any money ; but I should like a bite
and a sup. — But, Mr. Wrey, there's something
else I want to say.'

Speak on. What is it ?'

They carried him into a back-room, sir ;

and I thought the poor chap would like to
see a face he knew, so I went to him. He
knew me well enough then. I sat with him
till it was all over. Just before he died, he
turns to me. " Dick," he says, gasping —
** Dick, I've been a devil, and I'm dying like
a dog. I've got a wife and a boy somewhere
in England ; find them out, and take them
to my mother. She'll be good to them for
my sake, although I don't deserve it." Those
were Ralph Blatchford's last words, sir.'

Like one who dreams a dreadful dream,
Cuthbert heard these words. After all these
years, his fool's paradise had tumbled to
pieces. A wife — a son ! The very contingency
provided for by the dead woman.
He stared for some moments at the speaker
without the power of utterance. He knew
human nature too well to doubt that the man
was telling the simple truth. A wife and
son ! waiting, perhaps, to claim what they
could of the property which had been his so
long.

The bearer of these evil tidings looked at
him so Inquisitively, that he nerved himself
to make further Inquiries; but when he spoke

his voice was so changed that It seemed to
the listener like the voice of another man.

How Is It ?' he asked — ' how Is It I only
hear of this now — fourteen years after his
death ?'

His Informant looked uncomfortable, as If
the pressing of the question would be unpleasant.


I was bound for Australia, next day he
said ; * so I put the matter by until I could
earn some money and get back to England.
But I lost all I made as soon as I got It, for
years and years. It was only last year I had
a streak of luck, and followed It up. I
haven't been In England two months. Besides,'
he added, rather defiantly, * Ralph
Blatchford was no particular friend of mine ;
I couldn't go hunting about England for a
woman and a boy. I did see an advertisement
once In a Sydney paper about him.'

Why not have answered It ?'

I was up In the Bush ; but I made shift
to write a letter ; I sent it by a mate to the
nearest post-town. He was never heard of
again. Got killed, or lost in the Bush, I
suppose.'

Then you know nothing about his wife
and child ?'

Nothing whatever, sir. I'd almost forgotten
about the whole affair. Only, when
I heard that talk about Mrs. Blatchford's
money, her son's last words came back to me,
and I felt conscience-struck like, and made
up my mind to come and repeat them to
you. That's all I've got to say, sir.'

Cuthbert mused for a while. How came
it that the widow had never applied to the
old lady for assistance ? Why had she taken
no notice of the advertisements addressed to
her late husband ? Either she was dead,
or was In Ignorance of her husband's true
name and station In life ; most likely the
latter.

What name did he pass under, when you
saw him last ?' he asked.

His visitor scratched his head.

'Ah, there you have me, sir; I've been
trying to remember it all the way down. I
know I did hear It at the time. Wilson, or
Johnson, or some commons name like that ;
but for the life of me, I don't know which.'

How can I find out ?'

VOL. I. 14

Only way I can think of is to get someone
in 'Frisco to go to " Dale's Bar" — it's
still running, I know — and ask if any one
remembers a man who was shot there
September 12th, fourteen years ago. To
be sure, there must have been a good many
shot about that time, but some one may be
able to spot the right one.'

Thank you. I will do so. — Your name
is.^'

'Richard Dunn's my name. Quay, Bristol,
will find me. Vm trying to do something asa
stevedore. I've a bit of money, and want
to stay in England, if I can.'

Cuthbert rang the bell, and told the servant
to minister to Mr. Dunn's wants ; then, bidding
him good-morning, left the house by a
side-entrance, and, unseen by wife or children,
departed on a solitary walk through the neighbouring
lanes, in order to think the matter
over without interruption.

It was the worst intelligence he could have
received ; even worse, he thought, than that
of the existence of Ralph Blatchford. Despite
the lapse of years, the restrictions were to
him binding as before. Yet to be called

upon to surrender all to a woman and child
who might be living in the lowest rank of
life, perhaps in crime, seemed preposterous.
Besides, now he would have to surrender
more than wealth ; he must give up ambition,
realized ambition, with it. Would he have
the strength to conquer this time ? He
feared not. But that question must be postponed
for the present. However he acted
eventually, whether true to his own idea of
truth, whether he could bring himself to
compound with his conscience, one thing was
clear — Ralph Blatchford's widow and child
must be found. Another day should not
pass without steps being taken to insure
this. When found, and the necessity of
action stared him in the face, he would
decide what to do. Having resolved this,
he returned to the house.

Although he was now old enough to have
learned the way to control emotion, Mrs.
Wrey saw that something was amiss with
him. When dinner was over and the day
had closed, she sat beside him and looked
into his face anxiously.

Cuthbert dear, something is worrying you.

14 — 2

Is It a public or a private affair ? I can at
least share the last.'

He drew her close to him. Should he tell
her ? It was better not. Why should she
be made anxious by thinking of a calamity
which might never arrive ? She knew something
of the moral obligation which overrode
his legal title to his Inheritance — that should
Ralph Blatchford appear, a great sacrifice
must be made ; but all danger of that seemed
dispelled years and years ago.

Do I seem worried ?' he said pleasantly.
If so, I am ashamed of myself, as it Is only
a question of money. I may lose some
soon.'

His manner reassured her.

Is that all ?' she said. ' I feared it was
something worse than that.'

He kissed her upturned face, and could
not refrain from saying :

'If I lost everything In the world, you
would be the same to me, Marlon ?'

His wife took both his hands and gazed
earnest Into his eyes.

Go back ten years, and answer that
question for me. Think how you first saw

me — how you took me from a dependent
position, and gave me love, trust, and everything
worth Having for. Oh, my husband,
how good you have been to me !'

Marion Wrey spoke the truth. In linking
his life with hers, Cuthbert had made no
grand alliance. She brought him neither
wealth nor influence. Ten years ago he had
met her at the house of a clerical friend, the
Rev. Mr. Mayne. She was a pale, sad, but
beautiful girl, who had awakened his interest
at once. For some time she had been acting
as governess to his friend's children. A faint
resemblance she bore to the first woman he
had ever loved appealed to Cuthbert ; and
after seeing her a few times interest grew to
admiration, and admiration culminated in
love. He was not a man to linger long in
suspense. One day he went to her and asked
her to be his wife; pleading for the gift of
her love in so earnest a way, that she could
not fail to understand the depth of the passion
he felt. Yet the girl hesitated. She made
no secret of the fact that she loved him, but
begged for a couple of days' grace before she
gave him the promise he craved. Puzzled,

but hopeful, he left her, returning at the time
specified for her answer.

Marion took his hand. ' I have thought
and thought,' she said, ' but I cannot decide.
Will you take me just as I am — just as you
find me — without one question as to my pastor
one allusion to it ? My life has been a
bitter one ; and if I become your wife, let me
bury and utterly blot out the past. Will you,
can you do this ?'

With a lover's impetuosity, he vowed that
neither now nor hereafter did he care or would
he wish to know anything save and except
that she loved him ; and as, without a shadow
of evil in them, her clear eyes met his, he
knew that he should never regret or wish to
break the vow.

If,' she said after a pause — * if you think I
ask too much, go to Mr. Mayne ; he knows
my history. It is a sad one — so sad, that I
should like to think you never heard It.'

But Cuthbert preferred to trust entirely,
and keep his promise, like the loyal man he
was. If there had been sorrow, let it be
burled for ever. Marlon's happiness was his
future charge.

They were married almost Immediately,
and from that hour every trace of sadness
vanished from Marlon's face. Every day, her
husband thought, she grew more beautiful.
She was twenty-six when Cuthbert married
her ; and now, ten years afterwards, she was
a fair, refined, dignified woman, fit to move
in the best society, and doing the honours of
her house to, often, distinguished visitors with
perfect grace and composure. Dearly as she
loved her husband, much as she longed for
his constant presence, she was no bar to the
success of his ambition. His aims were hers,
and she could make any sacrifice to compass
what he had at heart. No husband and wife
could have been better matched, and none
loved better.

Yet Cuthbert decided not to tell her the
purport of Mr. Dunn's visit, until something
more definite was ascertained. The next day
he went up to town, and made arrangements
with a noted inquiry agent to send some one
at once to San Francisco, in the hope of
getting some Information about a man, name
unknown, who, fourteen years ago, was shot
like a dog in a gambling saloon. Then, dismissing,

so far as he could, the whole thing
from his mind, he went back to what holiday
he could allow himself

Chapter III.

It was several months before the agent returned
from America. He had been ordered
to spare neither time nor money, and had
kept his instructions to the letter, but with
little result as yet. Having, after some
trouble, ascertained that the man who was
shot, as described by Mr. Dunn, passed under
the name of Winslow, he went to work to trace
him back. It was a difficult task, but it
would have been even more so had not the
so-called Winslow, by sundry villainous acts,
left his memory green in the minds of some
with whom he had come in contact. It will
doubtless seem as though the search was
l^egun at the wrong end ; but, years ago, the
other way had failed. From the time when
he quarrelled irrevocably with his mother,
Blatchford could be traced a certain distance ;
then he disappeared.

At last the agent returned. By the merest
chance he had found a man who had sailed
from Liverpool in the same boat that carried
Blatchford or Winslow. He, like others,
had reasons of his own for remembering
him. So this was the result of the inquiry :
Blatchford sailed from Liverpool at a certain
date, under the name of Winslow. After a
short but discreditable career in various cities
in North and South America, he had met his
fate as described. Nothing was known about
his wife.

Cuthbert heard the agent's report.

We had better advertise for Mrs.
Winslow,' that gentleman suggested.

Cuthbert considered.

Not yet,' he said. ' Go down to Liverpool,
and try and trace back from there. He
was a saloon passenger, you say. Most
likely he stayed at a good hotel. A list
of the guests may show where he came
from, as he appears to have been contented
with one alias. Go down and see what
you can do ; but don't write me or come tome
until you think the case hopeless, or until
you have learnt all'

BOUND TOGETHER.

The agent went his way ; and Cuthbert
knew that the time was drawing near when
the old battle must be refouQ^ht. He strove
to dismiss the matter from his mind ; but, do
what he would, it was always with him. The
sacrifice would now be so tremendous. Even
if all went well with his party, and he had
office, what good could be expected of a
statesman who has only the emoluments of
his place to depend upon ? He must degenerate
— must sooner or later become a
place-seeker, when office was a matter of life
and death to those he loved best in the
world. No ; if he gave up — as he was by
his own code of honour bound to give up —
Mrs. Blatchford's wealth, farewell to public
life. All that would be over.

And with these thoughts always with him,
dreading that each post would bring him news
of the missing people, despite himself, the
man's manner changed. He grew moody, preoccupied,
and silent ; even the smile with
which he greeted his wife and children was
different — so different, that for the first time
since she had been married, Marion Wrey
felt unhappy and full of strange fears.

It was about a month after her husband's
last Interview with the confidential agent
that Marion sat alone. Cuthbert had gone
to the north of England to speak at an Important
meeting, held that night in a large
town, one of the strongholds of his antagonists.
Although — the Greys being now
people of some note — Marlon had half-a-dozen
invitations for this particular evening, she
preferred spending it at home and alone.
She sat thinking of many things, past and
present, but most of all of Cuthbert's changed
manner of late. It had for some time been
a source of great uneasiness to her. He did
not complain or show any sign of Illness ;
he was sanguine as to the outcome of public
affairs ; his ambition was not so high as to
ensure disappointment. What, then, had
changed him — changed his way of speaking,
changed his smile ? Could it be, she thought,
with the quick suspicion of a loving woman,
that his affection for her was waning ? Did
he at last begin to think that, in marrying
one so lowly as herself, he had thrown a
chance away ? But such thoughts were but
passing ones. He had given her too many

proofs of the endurance of his love to permit
her to harbour such unworthy doubts. Yet
she sighed, and prayed that whatever
weighed upon her husband's mind might be
removed, or that he would let her share the
burden. After a while she rose and rang
the bell.

Bring me to-night's letters,' she said.

Cuthbert kept no secretary. He was an
energetic man, equal to any amount of work ;
but whilst the House was sitting, his correspondence
was so voluminous that, recently,
his wife opened many of his letters and
sorted them according to the importance
they bore. In this way she saved him much
time.

There was a goodly pile to-night. She
opened and examined each letter in turn —
all save one or two which she laid aside untouched,
knowing, from the initials on the
envelopes, that they contained political matter
so weighty, that she must not be the first to
read it. Presently she came upon a thick
packet, sealed and registered. It bore the
Liverpool post-mark, and was marked
Private ' — but so was every second envelope.

Without hesitation she broke the
cover and drew the letter out, leaving the
other papers which accompanied it behind.

'A begging petition with testimonials,' she
said as she opened the letter, preparing
to take a hasty glance at its contents. As
she unfolded the paper, a small bright object
dropped from It on to her lap. It was a gold
cross, one arm of which was broken off. She
took it in her hand, looked at It for a moment,
and then started as If a snake had bitten her.
With the trinket still in her hand, she turned
to the letter, and her face grew paler with
every line she read.

The missive was short ; its meaning must
have been plain, as Marion had no need to
reverse it. As she read the last word, she
let both letter and trinket fall, then, uttering
low cry of pain, placed her hands upon her
eyes.

O my darling !' she moaned, * and is this
the reason ? — this is why you have changed
so, lately ! My love, I may have deserved it,
but not like this !'

So she sorrowed for a time ; then her mood

changed. She rose, and dashing her tears
away, paced the room like a queen.

If an angel had told me this, I would have
laughed him to scorn ! After so many years
so many happy years ! Cuthbert, Cuthbert
! why did you do it ? How could you
do it ? It was your right to know. Had
you wished it, I would have told you — told
you freely, in spite of your promise. But
oh ! to learn it like this, through a hired
spy!'

Then her proud bearing forsook her, and
the hot tears sprang forth again. But at last
she grew composed ; but there was a world of
sweet regret in the words she addressed to
her absent husband :

Yes, you will still love me, and I shall forgive
even this. But never, never again shall
we be the same to each other — never quite
the same, Cuthbert !'

She looked at the contents of the packet.
Two or three letters in a woman's handwriting
— one well known to her — which gave
her the feeling as of ghosts rising from the
past. She replaced everything in the cover,
and locking it away, sat late into the night,

thinklncr and thinking — lono^In^r for the
morrow to end her suspense.

The next day, Cuthbert returned just intime
to greet her for a moment before he
went down to the House. He had a question
on the notice paper, one that, he knew,
would stick Hke a barbed arrow into the
Home Secretary's well-seasoned flank. He
was in better spirits than usual.

We shall smite them hip and thigh !' he
cried. * Inside their own fortresses we shall
slay them ! — My darling, how ill you look.
What is the matter ?'

I have passed a bad night,' she faltered.
She could not reproach him at that moment.
She could not understand why, with that
letter waiting for him, his voice should
express such unmistakable anxiety and solicitude.


Lie down, dearest,' he said, 'and rest till
I come home. I shall be back to dinner.'

He kissed her, and went to St. Stephen's.
Except for the fear as to what news any
post might bring him from his detective, he
was very joyous. Every paper had a leader
on the speeches of last night, and his speech

had been an Important and favourably criticized
one.

He was in good spirits when he came home
to dinner. His bout with the Home Secretary
had succeeded to a marvel. His manner
to Marion, who still looked worn and weary,
had never been more affectionate. She felt
bewildered.

Dinner over, he must go " to his duties
again. She could not let the moment pass.
She placed herself in a low chair near him —
her favourite seat.

Must you go to the House to-night,
Cuthbert ?'

I don't know about " must." I ought to,
although there will be no division of importance.
If you feel ill, my darling, I will stay
with you.' He kissed her so lovingly, that
she knew it could be no pretence, and wondered
more and more. ' How cold your lips
are,' he said. ' Yes ; I will stay with you tonight.'


She thanked him, but waited a while, as in
deep thought, before she spoke again.

Cuthbert,' she said, sweetly but gravely,
may I tell you a little tale of real life ?'

He looked at her, and felt sure there was
some grave meaning in her request.

By all means,' he said.

Calm as she forced herself to be, her heart
beat and her hand trembled as she drew out
the little broken gold cross and placed it in
his hand. He looked at it and then at her
inquiringly.

That was given me, years ago,' she said
with an effort, * by the man who was my
husband, or who I fancied was my husband.'

Cuthbert started.

Wait a moment, Marion. I did not ask
for this. I do not want it. But if you wish
to tell me, tell me with your hand in mine ;
for I swear that whatever you may choose tolet
me know shall make no difference between
us.'

His voice was passionate as when he first
pleaded for her love.

She did not understand. She looked at
him almost dreamily, but did not place her
hand in his.

No, Cuthbert. It may be I shall have a
question to ask you. Let me tell it my own
way.'

VOL. r. 15

He saw she was quite serious, so listened
with growing fear.

I was but a girl,' she said, very quietly
and with her eyes cast down — * a girl of
twenty. He told me he loved me. He was
young, and, I believed, would change his
manner of life for my sake. I married him.
For a few months I was happy ; then I
found him as he really was — a false liar, a
coward, a swindler. When years afterwards
he told me I was not even his wife — that
even in that he had deceived me — I think, in
spite of the shame, my heart leapt for joy.

He could claim me no more. — Did I wrong
you, my Cuthbert, by marrying you ? I was
only sinned against. My silence must have

made you think it even worse than this. —

Now, I will give you your letter.*
Cuthbert was very grave.
Why do you tell me this, Marion ? I

was of course bound to guess at something

of the kind. Why tell me now ? I never

asked ; I never wished to know.'

He had not noticed her mention of the

letter, nor would he have known what she

meant by it. She drew it from her breast.

My husband,' she said sadly, as she
handed it to him, 'we can never be quite
as we were before you did this thing. If
you doubted, why not have asked me ?
Why not have asked Mr. Mayne ? I will
not reproach you, but you have degraded
both me and yourself.'

He took the letter in stupid astonishment.
That he and Marion were at cross-purposes,
that she was under some delusion, was
evident. What it was he could only learn
from reading the letter, so, without another
word, he read :

Dear Sir,

I would have seen you, but am
ordered away on an affair of great importance.
I do not neglect your interests in
going. A child might now follow the clue.
Winslow and his wife lived for some time at
D . He left her — deserted her, probably,
when he sailed for the States. She

lived on at D for a while, trying to

make an income by keeping a small
school. Then she fell seriously ill, and at
last was taken away by a gentleman, whose

15—2

name my informant forgets, but who was
Rector of St. Winifred's, a church on the
outskirts of London. This should be ample
for your purpose ; but I enclose some letters
and a trinket left behind her when she
quitted the house at which she lodged.'

As he finished the letter and read the
signature of his confidential agent, Cuthbert's
head felt in a whirl. It was some
little time before he could see the connection
between his wife's grief and this letter which
brought the dreaded moment close to hand.
His first thought was that Marion was
troubled by his having concealed the matter
from her.

He glanced at the letter once more, and
this time the mention of St. Winifred's
arrested his attention. The whole truth
came to him like a flash of lightning.
Astonishment no longer expressed his state.
He stared at his wife. She stood with her
eyes cast down, her beautiful face pale and
sad, and with tears slowly running down her
cheeks.

But the child !' gasped Cuthbert — * your
child !'

Still Ignorant of the truth, she looked at
him with reproachful eyes. Why should he
wish to probe every old wound ?

Poor little baby !' she said ; ' poor little
boy ! The only thing in all that time 1 can
look back to with a happy thought — the only
gleam of sunshine in my life. But he died,
Cuthbert — died before I wrote to my old
friend Mrs. Mayne, begging her to come
and save me from starvation or worse.
Then it was I said, " I will have no past." '

Cuthbert rose and clasped his wife to his
heart. Had she wished to resist, those
strong loving arms of his would have made
resistance useless.

Marion, my wife, my darling !' he cried,
can you not understand } I have been
sending across the world to find traces of
the widow and son of Ralph Blatchford, to
whom, if I could have done what was right,
I must have given up nearly every farthing
of the wealth we enjoy ; and from this letter
I learn that Ralph Blatchford was the man
who married you under the assumed name
of Winslow ! Marion, if you understood
what this means to me, to you, to the

children, you would be happier than ever
you have been before !'

Marion understood.

She laughed a half-delirious but entirely
happy laugh ; her hand stole into her husband's,
and the whole question of the
Blatchford bequest was ended, and at rest
for ever.

(A SOLICITOR'S TALE.)

Chapter I.

Mr. Brownlow, sir said my small clerk,
opening my office door.

Show him in I said, covering with a
bulky draft the novel which I was reading.

Then my first client stood before me.

My first client! In spite of the bundles
of documents, docketed, endorsed, and arranged
in due order ; in spite of the litter of
papers in front of me ; in spite of other
clever devices which I hoped gave my office
the look and odour of good substantial leo^al
business, until now I was relentless.

It is true I had not long been practising
on my own account. Ten days, if I remember

rightly; but those ten days, during which
I waited for business to come to me, were
the dullest and dreariest in my life. I was
beginning to despair. I did not even know
from which quarter to expect business. Faraway
in the dim future I saw a possibility of
being employed to draw up a marriage settlement.
The landlord of the house in which
I lodged was in hot dispute with his neighbours
about the right of using a pump, and
had sounded me as to the probable cost of
legal proceedings. With these exceptions, I
had nothing to look forward to when my first
client made his appearance.

An elderly, delicate-looking man ; his eyes
blue, with a kind, mild expression in them ;
his hair light and thin. Evidently a timid,
halting, irresolute man, of no strength of
character. Born, not to command, but to be
bullied by wife, son, daughter, or anybody
with whom he came in contact. Stooping
somewhat, as if accustomed to yield to
storms, not to resist them. Speaking hesitatingly
and respectfully, with a plaintive
inflexion in his voice. Clothes good, but
old-fashioned.

Such was my first client.

I begged him to be seated, then waited to
hear why he came.

I want a little matter attended to,' he
said. ' Mr. Johnson, of High Street, advised
me to come to you.'

Johnson was my boot maker — I registered
a vow of gratitude, to be discharged by
future orders; then, bowing in acknowledgment,
asked my client what he required.

It was, as he said, a small matter. An
agreement for a lease of a house which he
was about letting. His name I found was
James Brownlow; his address, Vine Cottage,
North Road ; his description, retired builder
in legal phraseology, gentleman.

So far as the grave and learned air which
I was bound to assume permitted, I made
myself very pleasant and affable to him.
He listened to my words with deference,
agreed to all my suggestions, wished me a
respectful good-morning, and went his way.

Of course I told him my hands were so
full of business that it was impossible for me
to get the agreement prepared under two
days. At the time appointed he called with

his tenant, paid me my modest costs, and
disappeared for the space of several months.

When next I saw him, he brought me
something well worth having. He had sold
some houses, and wished to invest the proceeds
by way of mortgage, so that my
second bill of costs was of a respectable
length and of a comforting amount. From
what he told me I found that he possessed,
one way and another, a good deal of property.
How he could have made his money
was to me a mystery. Judging from his
timid and yielding disposition, I should have
thought him the last man in the world to
get on. I suppose our fathers made money
much more easily than their sons do, in
these days of cutthroat competition and
mortgage-bring — But let that pass. I, for
one, must not complain — now.

One evening I passed Vine Cottage. My
client was at the gate, and begged me to
enter. His house was a pretty one, built by
himself, and surrounded by a large well-kept
garden. I found that whatever energy he
did possess was devoted to horticulture.
Plants being gentle, unresisting organizations,

no doubt he was able to cope with them
successfully. He was proud of his flowers,
but even more so of his grapes, one variety
of which, he told me, had become famous
under the name of ' Brownlow's Seedling

As I am fond of gardening, and know
something about it, the old man seemed to
find a kindred spirit in mine, so much so
that, after our inspection of the garden and
the greenhouses, he urged me to stay to
supper with him. I had another engagement,
but, as my new friend seemed likely to
be such a good client, I felt I ought not to
neglect the opportunity, so I accepted the
offer, and entered the house.

At the supper-table I found two middle-aged
women, his daughters. The elder, I
learned, was a widow ; the younger, unmarried.
I already knew that my client's
wife had been dead many years, and from the
conversation at the table I gathered that the
widowed daughter had two or three children.
Afterward, I ascertained that she and her
family lived with Mr. Brownlow, who supported
them all.

As I inspected my new acquaintances, I

decided that in appearance and disposition
they must take after their deceased mother,
and argued that, if my supposition was
correct, the late Mrs. Brownlow was not
the pleasantness of her sex. Father and
daughters were never less alike. The latter
were two tall, bony, hard-faced women, and
as I noticed that when Mr. Brownlow spoke
to them his manner was more timid, his
speech more hesitating than ever, I felt sure
I had not missed my mark when I summed
him up as a man much bullied by his nearest
relatives. It was easy to see that the poor
old fellow's womankind ruled him with a
rod of iron — a domestic sceptre no doubt
handed down together with traditions of
home tyranny from mother to daughters.
He seemed to smoke his pipe surreptitiously
; to drink his whisky and water
apologetically ; to laugh guardedly ; in fact,
in his daughters' presence, to do all things
with the hope of approval, or the fear of
correction before his amiable eyes.

To me, the ladies, although patronizing,
as became our respective positions, were
civil enough. When I said good-night, they

were good enough to hope to see me again
at Vine Cottage. ' When we trust,' added
the widow, 'to entertain you better — but
having expected no one,' etc. In spite of
fair words, I did not Hke them. They were
too severely moulded to suit me, and I felt
sure that the moment my back was turned
poor old Brownlow would be taken to task
for having invited a guest without notice to
his joint sovereigns.

After this visit to Vine Cottage I saw my
old client frequently, both at my office and
out of doors. If I passed his house of an
evening I generally found him at the gate,
anxious that I should enter and admire some
new floral triumph. Through the kindness
of a friend I had been able to present him
with some choice varieties of several of his
pet plants. He was absurdly grateful. Perhaps
even a trifling act of spontaneous
kindness was a new experience to him.
Sometimes, not often, I spent the evening
with him, and each time I did so, and saw
him in the company of his sour-looking
daughters, I was more confirmed in my
opinion that he was very unkind)' treated

at home. At last I grew to dislike the
oppressors as much as I pitied and liked
the oppressed, whom I found so gentle,
kind, and hospitable, that, leaving all mercenary
considerations out of the question, I
began to entertain a sincere regard for him.

One morning, to my surprise, his widowed
daughter, Mrs. Wrench, paid me a visit. If
either of my client's daughters was sourer,
harder-looking — in fact, more objectionable
than the other — it was Mrs. Wrench. She
was a hungry-looking woman, with long
teeth and high cheek-bones. She was always
dressed in black, but her garments looked
old and rusty. Out of doors she wore black
thread gloves, the touch of which set my
teeth on edge. She entered my office, and
after giving me her rasping, rigid hand,
seated herself.

My father would have called himself, Mr.
Carr,' she began, ' but did not feel equal to
the walk.'

I hope he is not ill,' I said politely.

No, not exactly ill ; but upset by an unpleasant
family matter.'

Can I be of any service to him ?'

Yes. He wishes you to write a letter —
at once; so he asked me to call and give you
instructions.'

I bowed, and waited the instructions.

You will please write to-day,' she said,
in her incisive, metallic voice, her ill-favoured
face growing harder as she spoke. ' You
will write to Mrs. Richard Brownlow, i8,
Silver Street, and say that no further application
she makes to Mr. Brownlow will be
noticed. Say also,' she added, ' that Mr.
Brownlow, in justice to others, is seriously
thinking of reducing the amount he has for
some years been in the habit of sending her.'

Whoever Mrs. Richard Brownlow might
be — whether her claim on my client were just
or unjust — such a peremptory refusal, written
by a solicitor, admitting of no appeal and
ending with a threat, was so much at variance
with my old friend's easy and vacillating
nature, that I hesitated.

I am clearly to understand, Mrs. Wrench,
that these are Mr. Brownlow's expressed
wishes ?'

She snapped her thin lips, and looked at
me in a manner far from pleasant.

'Undoubtedly, Mr. Carr — moreover, he
wishes you to write at once. Let there be
no delay, If you please.'

'If you please' is an innocent looking
but the expression Mrs. Wrench
threw Into those words was most significant.
Considering it had settled the matter, the
hard-faced widow rose, gathered up her rusty
skirts, and bade me a severe good-day.

Now, who may Mrs. Richard Brownlow
be ?' I said, as her angular, ungracious form
vanished through the green baize door.
Some poor relation asking for help, I suppose.
I doubt very much whether the old
man knows anything about the appeal, and I
dare say my Instructions emanate only from
the charming Mrs. Wrench.'

Nevertheless, I wrote the letter ; my not
doing so would, I felt sure, make a bitter
enemy of Mrs. Wrench, and enemies were
luxuries which I could not yet afford. If I did
wrong in following her instructions, I could
throw all the blame on her shoulders. So
the next post took my letter to the address
she gave me — a poo street in a poor part of
the town.

Chapter II.

At the end of the week Mr. Brownlovv
called, looking more timid and nervous than
ever. He said nothing about the letter, but
having finished discussing the business which
I was conducting for him, fidgeted about and
seemed very ill at ease. He made contradictory
remarks about the harvest and the
crops, and could not, apparently, make up his
mind whether to go or to stay. Presently he
reseated himself, and dropping his voice to a
whisper, said :

^ Will you do me a kindness, Mr. Carr ?'

I begged him to command me in any way.

I feel it is not quite the right thing to
ask,' he said, with a feeble attempt at a laugh,
but will you allow your clerk to take a cab
and go with a letter for me ? He will bring
some one back. It will only be a little girl.
Perhaps you would not mind my seeing her
here for a few minutes V

He shall go at once,' I said ; ' but where
is the letter ?'

/ I must write it.'

VOL. I. 16

Therewith, after spoiling several sheets of
my paper, he completed to his satisfaction a
short note. It was addressed Mrs. Richard
Brownlow, 18, Silver Street.

You know I wrote to this lady a few days
ago, by your request ?' I asked.

Yes, yes — I know it,' he replied sadly.
My daughters Insisted. No doubt they are
right, for they are good daughters, Mr. Carr,
and have never yet given me a moment's
trouble. Oh yes, my daughters are always
right ; but I want to see the little girl.'

I gave my clerk the letter and instructions.
When I returned, Mr. Brownlow was saying
to himself:

Yes, I must see the little girl. Richard's
little girl.'

Your expected visitor is a relation of
yours ?' I asked.

My granddaughter. My poor son Dick's
child. Dick went wrong, Mr. Carr. I can't
think why he should have gone wrong,' he
added plaintively ; ' he never had a harsh or
unkind word from me.'

This I quite believed ; but I wondered
if a few harsh words at the proper season

might not have prevented his son from going
wrong.

Yes, he disgraced us all,' continued the
old man. ' Then he married and made matters
worse. His wife was not the wife for such
as Dick. Then he quarrelled with me, and
said such things that I was obliged to alter
my will and leave him nothing — but that was
only to try and break his spirit, Mr. Carr.
Then he left me in anger and went abroad.
I never saw him again. He took to drinking,
they told me, and soon died. He was a
terrible disgrace and trouble, but he was my
only son, and I should like to see the little

girl'

Have you never seen her ?'

Never. Dick's widow has only just
returned to the town. Since Dick's death I
have been allowing her something, although
my daughters say she has no claim on me ;
but I could not let her starve. Now she has
written for more money, to give the child a
proper education, she says. But I cannot be
expected to do that, can I, Mr. Carr ?'

He spoke timidly, as though my decision
was a matter of great moment.

16 — 2

I knew it was not what he could do, but
what my friend Mrs. Wrench and her sister
would allow him to do.

Better wait and see what your grandchild
is like,' I suggested.

Yes, yes, so I will,' he said, brightening
up. * But, Mr. Carr, you will say nothing
about this at home ?'

I reassured him, whilst marvelling at his
weakness. Soon the door opened, and my
clerk led in a girl of about twelve years of age.

A pretty, winning child, with bright eyes,
long soft hair, and an intelligent face. Her
dress, although of poor material, neat and
well fitting. I was able to trace in her young
features a certain likeness to my client.
Perhaps her natural timidity and shyness at
entering a strange room and finding strangers
awaiting her made the resemblance more
apparent.

Mr. Brownlow held out his hand. The
little maid went up to him, and after dropping
an old-fashioned courtesy, put her small
fingers into his.

And what is your name, my dear ?' he
asked kindly.

I am Miss Lilian Brownlow, sir.'

Lilian — Lilian,' repeated the old man.
A very pretty name, too ; and do you know
who I am ?'

You are my poor papa's papa,' she
replied. * Mamma said I should see you if I
went with the young gentleman.'

What else did your mamma tell you ?'
asked Mr. Brownlow, rather unfairly.

She said I was to be very good, and then,
perhaps you would give her the money to
send me to a beautiful school.'

Old Brownlow looked very foolish as he
heard this candid avowal. He twisted in his
chair, and his eyes appealed to me for assistance.


She is very like you,' I said, to create a
diversion.

He seemed pleased at my remark, and
placing his hands on her shoulders, looked at
her attentively and kindly.

Like me, is she ? Well, she is like Dick.
She has his eyes, and people always said
Dick was like his father.'

Suppose I can't send you to school,' he
asked the child, ' will you give me a kiss all
the same, my pretty one ?'

Yes, I will give you a kiss,' she said, looking
half inclined to cry.

She held up her little red mouth : the old
man kissed it many times, then placed her on
his knee and put his arms round her. They
made quite an affecting group. In the child's
interests, and feeling sure that I should put
a spoke in Mrs. Wrench's wheel, I thought it
better to leave them, so I quitted my office
for awhile.

In an hour's time I returned and found
them the best of friends. With many kisses
Mr. Brownlow once more gave Lilian in
charge of the young gentleman, my clerk.
He saw them safely off, then returned to me.
For once he spoke like a man whose mind
is made up. It was clear that his pretty
granddaughter had found a short cut to his
heart. Memories of his dead son, loving and
pleasant ones, had arisen and erased his faults.
The child bore his name, and, Mrs. Wrench
notwithstanding, he felt that something must
be done for her.

Mr. Carr,' he said, ' kindly write to Mrs.
Brownlow and tell her to send the child to
]\Iiss H — 's school. The bills can be sent to

you, If you don't mind the trouble of settling-them.
Also tell Mrs. Brownlow that you are
instructed to pay her ten pounds every
quarter in addition to what she now receives
from me. Perhaps,' he added, with a return
of his old manner, * it would be well to make
some inquiries as to what kind of woman she
is — my daughters say such strange things
about her.'

I promised to carry out his wishes, and
expressed my pleasure that the child had
found such favour in his eyes.

A sweet little thing I' he said. ' A good,
clever little child ! I only wish I could take
her home to live with me — but there are obstacles
— and very likely she would not be
happy,' he added, as if thinking aloud.

I did not put my thoughts into words, but
I agreed with him. There were obstacles,
and, even if Mr. Brownlow could attack and
surmount them, they must impede the march
of the little interloper's happiness.

Although he dared not take the child home
although he never went near Silver Street
Mr. Brownlow continued to see Lilian
frequently. He made my office quite a conveniency.

He usually called there on Wednesday
and Saturday afternoons, the girl's
half-holidays, and, with many apologies for
the liberty he was taking, despatched my
clerk in search of her. Then they sallied
forth together. It was his custom to take a
cab, drive some distance into the country,
alight, and ramble about the fields until it
was time to return home. I laughed as I
drew mental pictures of the state in which
the amiable Mrs. Wrench and her sister would
be if they should chance to learn how their
father employed so much of his time. As
yet they had discovered nothing, although
years had gone by, and the girl was growing
tall, and bidding fair to become an attractive
and accomplished young lady.

My client had several times spoken to me
about making a fresh will and providing for
Lilian, but as yet nothing had been done.
Although I had tried to do so, I had not
been able to get any definite instructions from
him. I believe he was deterred by that
absurd superstition which influences more
men than one would think, that a will should
not lightly be meddled with — making a new

one or altering an old one being often the
precursor of a quick decease. It was to be
made — it should be made — yet it was not
made. The friendly relations now existing
between us allowed me to hint to him that
in case of his death Lilian and her mother
would be penniless. He quite saw the force
of my remarks, yet he still hesitated and
postponed. How many men have done
the same thing, and the ones whom they
loved best in life have suffered from the
foolish delay !

Chapter HI.

Some two years after Lilian made her first
appearance, three half-holidays in succession
passed without my client paying me his usual
visit. My clerk — the original young gentleman,
for I had more than one clerk now —
looked out for him wistfully. Probably certain
half-crowns which from time to time
changed hands were a welcome addition to
his weekly stipend, or it may be that, in his
secret heart, the youth nourished tender

feelings towards his little charge. Such a
protracted absence being unprecedented, I
called at Vine Cottage to learn what was the
cause of it. One of the daughters received
me, and informed me her father was ill. He
had been in bed several days. Was he
seriously ill ? They feared so. Was he conscious
? Yes, but very weak. Could I see
him ? Utterly out of the question — he was
too ill to see anyone.

The woman's manner made me dread the
worst. I thought of that graceful child, who
had grown so dear to the old man, thrust
back into poverty. Her mother and herself,
at the best, kept from sheer starvation by
what small pittance might be wrung from
the stony sisters. I pitied the mother almost
as much as the child, for the result of the
inquiries which I had instituted by Mr.
Brownlow's request showed her to be of undoubted
respectability. A factory girl originally,
whose pretty face had caught Richard
Brownlow's fancy ; but a girl, evidently, with
thoughts and ideas above her class. Poor
woman, she had suffered much ! Her husband
had ill-used her, and during Lilian's

early years her life had been one hard struggle.
The two last years must have been the
happiest since her marriage ; they were at
least free from anxiety and semi-starvation.
And now, if old James Brownlow died, all her
misery must begin again.

So I begged as his friend and legal adviser
to be allowed to see him, if only for a
moment. Whilst I urged my request, the
second daughter entered the room and joined
her sister in an absolute refusal. So rigid
and unbending was their attitude, that I
feared they must suspect something of the
truth. I tried them every way I could think
of, but without getting them to yield an inch.
The doctor, they said, had utterly forbidden
it.

Will you allow me,' I said, ' to wait until
the doctor comes ? I can show him how
necessary it is that I should see Mr. Brown-low.'


Certainly not,' replied Mrs. Wrench, with
a face of adamant. * Not with my consent
shall my poor father's last hours, it may be,
be disturbed by matters of business.'

Certainly not,' echoed her sister.

Entreaty failing, I turned to craft. Taking
my hat, I rose, shrugging my shoulders like
one who had cleared his conscience by trying
to do his duty.

As you like, my dear ladies ; but I must
not be blamed by-and-by. I can only say
that, unless I speak to him to-day, it may
make a great pecuniary difference to yourselves.'


This was true enough, but not exactly as
I meant them to understand it.

The shaft went home. I had touched the
key-note — avarice. They glanced at each
other, and held a whispered consultation. I
hoped I had outwitted them ; but two such
women are more than a match for the sharpest
lawyer on the rolls.

Mr. Carr said the widow, ' if you choose
to tell us the exact facts of the case, we will
decide if they justify our running the risk.'

She snapped up her thin lips and gave mea
searching glance.

No, I cannot do that. The business is of
a private nature. Many interests are involved.
You must take my word for its
vital importance.'

The sisters exchanged a look which plainly
said, * I told you so.' Mrs. Wrench folded
her huge bony hands on her sombre lap.

Then, sir,' she said, ' you will not see him.
What secrets can a father wish to keep from
his daughters ?'

'We don't believe a word of your tale
added the other most offensively.

If there is any secret,' continued Mrs.
Wrench venomously, ^ perhaps this letter,
found by us a few days ago, has something todo
with it.'

She handed me a letter. It was in a
girlish handwriting, and ran thus :

Darling Grandpa, —

I have a bad cold and cannot come

to-day.

With love and kisses, your

Lilian.'

Then they knew or guessed everything.
Poor little Lilian I

Answer me, sir !' cried Mrs. Wrench,
stamping her heavy foot. * Who is Lilian ?
That shameful woman's child, I suppose } Is
it on her account you want to see my father ?
Is she your important business? Answer me I'

I was spared the task. The door opened
suddenly, and in staggered a feeble, wasted
figure, clothed in an old dressing-gown. It
was my client. He sank into the nearest
chair, and panted for breath.

I needed no doctor to tell me that my poor
old friend's hours were numbered. He had,
in the course of some ten days, wasted away
almost to nothing. Death was written legibly
on his white and ghastly face. He seemed
so exhausted that the fear came over me
that, then and there, his eyes would close forever.


His daughters, spell-bound by the turn
events had taken, gazed at each other in
blank astonishment. Even in that moment
I was able to exult in their discomfiture.
I ran to the sideboard, where, luckily, stood
a spirit-case and glasses. I poured out a
glass of brandy. The dying man drank a
little and revived.

Go,' he said hoarsely, waving his thin
hand towards his daughters. ' Go — at once.'

Frightened as the women were, they kept
their seats in sullen defiance.

Go,' he said again. ' Go ; or, by heaven !

Mr. Carr shall make a will and leave everything
to the hospital

His voice was low, and he spoke with
difficulty ; but words and accent were so
stern and fierce that I could scarcely believe I
was listening to my timid, hesitating old friend.

His daughters, doubtless even more surprised
than I was, left the room, muttering
their dissatisfaction. My client sank back in
his chair.

Lock the door,' he whispered. I did so.
Then he laid one wasted hand on mine.

Thank God, you have come at last. I
expected you every moment for days past.'

I had no idea you were ill, Mr. Brown-low.'


*They told me they had sent and written.
They said you were from home.'

I have had no letter, and have not been
out of town for weeks.'

Then they lied. They let me see no one.
Until three days ago I did not know I must
die. Even that they kept from me. I heard
your voice, and just managed to creep downstairs.
I was bound to see you before it was
too late.'

The moisture rose to his brow. He looked
so faint that I made him swallow more
brandy.

Make a codicil,' he said. ' Leave my
pretty girl all — leave her all.'

Not all, surely ! I said, surprised.

He relapsed into his familiar hesitation
and uncertainty of purpose.

No — no,' he said, * not all. They have
been good daughters. No ; leave my
darling girl, my poor Dick's child, six thousand
pounds.'

I will draw up a codicil at once,' I said,
looking round for pen and paper. His procrastinating
habit still clung to him.

No, not now,' he said. ' I am better.
Perhaps I shall get well. But bring it tomorrow
morning, that I may sign it and
make sure.'

I had no intention of letting death forestall
me, so, without heeding his words, I began
to write. Before I had finished two lines I
saw that my old client had fainted.

I tried, without success, to revive him.
With a heavy heart I went for help. Mrs.
Wrench was in the passage. Her ear, I felt

sure, had that moment left the keyhole. Her
sister stood just behind her. The looks
they gave me showed what they thought of
my proceedings.

We carried Mr. Brownlow to his bed. The
servant ran for the doctor, and I left to
prepare the codicil, praying the while that
Mr. Brownlow might find strength of mind
and body enough to insist upon seeing mee in
the morning.

At nine o'clock the next morning I was at
Vine Cottage, and was not at all surprised
when I was curtly refused admittance. I
waited until the doctor paid his visit, accosted
him before he entered, and begged him to
aid me, or at least to let his patient know
that I was outside. He would promise
nothing, and his manner told me that the
account he had received of last evening's
events prejudiced me in his eyes. No doubt
more lies were told him on this visit, for
when he came out of the house he was good
enough to inform me that he thought such
unprofessional conduct as mine must damage
any young solicitor. I kept my temper, and
endeavoured to make him understand the

VOL. I. 17

facts of the case. He refused to listen tome.


At least you will tell me how you find
Mr. Brownlow this morning,' I said.

'As bad as can be. He has but a few
hours to live.'

Then,' I said, * by refusing to aid me you
doom the one he loved best in the world to
utter poverty.'

I have nothing to do with family disputes,'
he said coldly, as he closed the door
of his brougham and drove away.

I left the house, but returned there several
times during the day. Each time I was
denied entrance. I was at my wits' end.
Bribery and corruption of servants was out
of the question, as the door was always
opened by Mrs. Wrench or her sister. No
legal process would enable me to enter ; and
a forcible invasion for such a purpose as
mine would, I felt certain, ruin us if the
matter came to litigation.

At last I grew sick and weary of the
whole thing. I went home determined to
try again tomorrow, although I knew it
would be useless unless Mr. Brownlow

rallied in some unexpected manner, and
grew strong enough to insist upon my being
sent to him.

Chapter IV.

I LIVED at some distance from Vine Cottage.
There were other lodgers in the house : the
rooms over mine being occupied by a man
with whom I was on very friendly terms. I
had finished my tea and settled down to read,
when Robinson came to my door, and asked
me to join some friends of his in a rubber.
I was not in the mood for society. I felt
melancholy and upset. The faces of a
dying man and a bright, happy child haunted
me. I declined my friend's invitation, preferring
to spend the evening with my book
and my pipe. I read for a long, long time, undisturbed
by the laughter which, at intervals
of the game, I heard overhead. But read as
hard as I would, I could not get Mr. Brown-low
out of my thoughts. Perhaps at that
very moment he was dying, and calling forme
to carry out his wishes. I shuddered as
I pictured the two hard-hearted mercenary

17 — 2

women keeping watch over his bed, waiting
for him to die. I saw them heeding his
cries no more than stone figures might.
Then, through my smoke - wreaths, rose
LiHan's glad young face. How changed, I
thought, it will look in six months' time,
when privation and sorrow tell upon it. I
blamed my old client bitterly for his folly. I
blamed myself for not having urged him
again and again until he made proper provision
for the girl. Altogether, I knew the
business had been badly managed, and felt
miserable at my share in it.

The clock struck half-past eleven. I
closed my book, and debated whether to goto
bed or fill another pipe. At that moment
I heard a knock at the street door. ^ One of
Robinson's friends come late,' I said. * They
mean to make a night of it.' I heard my
landlady answer the summons ; then my door
opened, and to my amazement — even horror
in walked Mr. Brownlow.

I thought I must be dreaming — the thing
seemed impossible. Mr. Brownlow, the man
yesterday evening scarcely able to totter
downstairs — whose dying look had haunted

me ever since — here, In my room — dressed
as when last I saw him about ! He looked
as ill and ghastly as when I saw him in his
own dining-room, but his step was not so
feeble. The unexpected sight deprived me
of speech and motion ; the only sensation I
was capable of feeling was wonder — wonder
as to how he managed to reach my house.
A man so enfeebled that only yesterday he
fainted after walking a few steps and speaking
a few words. It was Inexplicable, but It
was not Impossible, for here he was !

I recovered my senses, and placed a chair
for him. He seated himself wearily.

My dear sir !' I said ; ' surely this is most
imprudent !'

He turned his head and looked at me.

What was it in that look that froze my
blood — that made my hair rustle — that sent
wild thoughts rushing through my brain ?
To this day I dare not answer the question ;
but something nameless was there — something
which changed astonishment into sheer
terror — such terror that for a moment my
impulse was to rush out of the room and hide
myself.

I must sign that codicil to-nights he said.

Although his voice sounded strange, it
recalled me to myself.

It should be no fault of mine if the opportunity
was lost. I took the document
from my pocket and spread it out before
him.

Wait one minute,' I said : * I must fetch
witnesses.'

^ You must be quick,' he answered, and his
eyes again met mine. I shunned them, but
as I left the room I felt that I was trembling
in every limb.

Outside the door I could laugh at my
fears. Robinson's card party was a lucky
incident. I would go up and ask two of the
players to act as witnesses. First let me get
that codicil signed and attested : after that I
could learn how Mr. Brownlow managed to
reach my house.

Robinson and his friends raised a shout of
welcome when I entered the room. I knew
nearly every man there, and among the
party were two solicitors of my acquaintance.

I am sorry to disturb you,' I said apologetically,
' but would two of you come down

and witness a will. Perhaps Thomas and
Hicks' — my legal friends — *will spare me a
minute.'

Thomas and Hicks laid down their cards
and followed me to the door. Then a
sudden thought occurred to me. The circumstances
of the case were so unparalleled : a
man leaving what was said to be his deathbed
late at night to make a serious alteration
in his will. If he died tomorrow, or in the
course of a few days, this codicil would most
certainly be disputed. Here were nine men.
Let them all witness it. Such testimony
might defy anything. So I turned and
said :

On second thoughts, as litigation is sure
to come out of this, may I ask all of you to
come down ?'

Can't be too careful,' said Hicks approvingly,
as the whole party rose and trooped
after me.

It's old Brownlow !' I heard Thomas
whisper as we entered the room.

'So it is replied Hicks. 'They told me
the poor old boy was dying.'

I handed my client a pen. As I did so

our hands met. His touch sent an icy-cold
shiver through me. He signed his name
pretty firmly. His signature was duly
attested by Thomas and Hicks, whilst the
other men looked over their shoulders with
great curiosity.

Mr. Brownlow bowed to them politely,
whilst I thanked them for their services and
apologized for the trouble I had given them.
After wishing us good-night they went back
to their game. I locked up the codicil and
then turned to question my client.

But the words died on my lips as I met
his eyes, and once more saw in them the same
mysterious, indescribable look which had
before so strangely affected me. Again I
trembled from head to foot.

I must go back,' he said, rising like one
wearied by some great exertion.

Let me fetch a cab,' I said, recovering as
before when I heard his voice.

He shook his head, walked to the door,
opened it, and passed through. I followed
him. On the threshold he turned, and for
the last time his eyes met mine. I sank on
a chair powerless, and, save for the throbbing

of my heart, motionless. The clock struck
twelve.

In a few seconds, by a great effort, I forced
myself to rise and go in pursuit of him. One
way only led to his house. I ran along the
road as fast as I could, but saw no sign of
him. Thinking I must have passed him, I
retraced my steps. He was nowhere in
siofht. I turned once more and ran on and
on until I reached Vine Cottage. I rang the
bell. The door was soon opened — it was
evident that the inmates no longer feared
assault. A maid, with her apron before her
eyes, stood at the door.

^ Has Mr. Brownlow come in ?' I asked.

The girl stared at me stupidly. I repeated
my question, adding that he had just
left my house.

She did not seem to understand me.

Master died at half-past eleven,' she said,
again applying her apron to her tearful
eyes.

He died at half-past eleven ! Then I
must be mad or dreaming. I went home.
Robinson's card party was still in full swing.
I unlocked my secretaire. There, safe and

sound, was the codicil signed just before
twelve o'clock ! What could I think ?

4'f ^ ^-rr-rr

The outcry raised by my notice of the
existence of the codicil beggars description.
The amiable sisters forced their way to my
presence, and assured me nothing would
satisfy them until I stood in the dock charged
with forgery, conspiracy, and a few other
crimes — their last penny should be spent to
bring this about. Fortunately, the executors
were men of business, and their solicitors
men of honour who would not allow clients
to go to law when they must lose. I had
nothing to conceal, and it was soon ascertained
that James Brownlow had signed the
codicil in the presence of ten disinterested
witnesses, leaving my landlady, who opened
the door to him, out of the question. Every
man who witnessed that signature was a

o

respectable citizen, whose word would carry
weight with judge and jury. Let the others
swear that it was physically impossible for
James Brownlow to leave his bed that night,
we had overwhelming evidence that he did
so — that he came to my house — that he

signed the document. Moreover, our
evidence was unbiased : theirs was tainted
by animus and self-interest. I laughed as I
thought whose shoulders eventually must
bear the charge of conspiracy.

The law courts were never troubled with
the matter. It was too simple. So, after
some attempts at a compromise, which were
sternly rejected, the legacy was paid, and the
popular theory was that my client managed
to slip from his bed unnoticed, and found
strength enough to reach my house and
ensure that his last wishes should be carried
out.

It was years before I would exchange a
word with the doctor who had lent so ready
an ear to my calumniators. But he made
me ample amends, and, at last, I forgave
him. He told me a strange thins.

To all appearance his patient died at half-past
eleven that night. The doctor went
downstairs and talked to and comforted the
women as best he could. Before leaving the
house he went back to the chamber of death
to look once more on the dead man. Whilst
gazing on the peaceful face, the eyes suddenly

opened, and the man he had pronounced
dead gave a deep drawn sigh — a
sigh, it seemed, of relief — then the Hds fell
again, and this time all was over.

But,' said the doctor, ' I would swear in
any court of law that it was a simple impossibility
for him to have moved hand or foot.
Thank heaven I was not obliged to do so.
Your evidence was so overpowering that I
should have been ruined professionally. If
one believed in the supernatural, now '

Just so. But, like the doctor, I don't
believe in It. Anyway, it is not as yet recognised
by law. Nevertheless, the circumstances
connected with my first client are
strange — very strange !

END OF VOL. I.

London : REMINGTON AND CO.

OF THL

University

or ILLINOIS

TALES.

BY

HUGH CONWAY,

(F. J. Fergus,)
AUTHOR OF 'CALLED BACK.

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

REMINGTON AND CO.,

Henrietta Street, Covent Garden.
1884.

[All Rights Reserved. '\

CONTENTS.

PAGE

OUR LAST WALK (A MYSTERY) I

MISS RIVERS'S REVENGE 45

THE DAUGHTER OF THE STARS (A PSYCHOLOGICAL

romance) 99

in one short year - - 149

THE TRUTH OF IT (a SOLICITOR'S STORY) - - 1 98
A SPECULATIVE SPIRIT 246

OUR Lx\ST WALK.

(A MYSTERY.)

If I wished to tell a love-tale, I should begin
this with the sweetest memories of my life,
and relate when and where Walter Linton
and I first met ; should describe my pride
and happiness when I knew that he wished
me to become his wife. The love we bore
each other through life — aye, even after life
may be made manifest as I write these
lines, but it is not because I loved him I
have this tale to tell. Other women have
loved as I love, and have mourned as I
mourn : my life, so far as the joy and grief
of it go, is but the life of thousands.

Had Walter Linton, when first he asked

VOL. II. I 8

me for the heart which was already his own,
been but a poor struggling man, I should
have given him all as freely as I did then.
If need had been, I could have waited
patiently for years, or until fortune smiled
upon him. Feeling this, I had no false
sentiment as to sharing the worldly good
that was his, although I was a penniless girl
and brought nothing in my hands. Of course,
kind friends around wondered why Walter
did not choose a wife who would brine him
wealth as well as love. Ah, no one could have
given him more love than I could give him :
that was all he wanted or asked for. He was
twenty-three, and his own master; I was
twenty, and utterly alone in the world. So
we were married — just six weeks after that
happy spring-day on which he told me I was
dearest to him.

Our home — a dear, grey old house, full of
pleasant corners — was Draycot Hall, Somers
not far from the Mendip Hills.
Walter had recently inherited the house and
the estate of Draycot, and when we took
possession of our kingdom, which was almost
as new to Walter as it was to me, life seemed

to hold all that could be desired. Walter's
income was sufficient for the life of a quiet
country gentleman — a life to which he settled
down, and appeared to find every wish gratified
in that happy existence. Shooting,
fishing, and hunting gave him plenty of
amusement, and the land, part of which he
farmed himself, brought occupation and interest
enough to make him feel that his life
was not altogether an idle or useless one.

Then, to make our happiness complete, the
children came — a girl, then one, two, three
bonny boys. How merry and busy the old
house grew with them, the sturdy rogues !
How proud Walter was of them !

We were not very rich people. Compared
to that of some of our county neighbours,
our income was insignificant. Draycot Hall,
although not such an imposing pile as the
name might suggest, was by no means a
small house; and, like all rambling old places,
cost a good deal of money to keep up. Even
when we began life together we found, at
the end of the year, that our expenditure and
income nearly tallied, and as expenses increased
with an increasing family, we felt that

18—2

a few hundreds added to our revenue would
be a very welcome addition. But in spite
of this our lot was too happy for us to think of
grumbling.

We sat one summer's evening on the lawn.
The air was cooled by late fallen rain, and
sweet with fragrance rising from the freshened
flowers — for days were long and petals not
yet closed. Our latest given child slept on
my knee ; and, as we watched the sun sink
slowly down behind the Mendip Hills, my
husband said :

Helena, how shall we manage to start all
these boys in life ?'

I laughed at such a distant obligation. We
were still young, and it seemed that so many
years must pass before the baby on my knee
would want a starting hand. I kissed the
child's little white fingers.

Why, Walter,' I said, ' you are looking a
long, long way into the future.'

Yes, my girl ; but days happy as ours
pass very quickly. It will not seem so long
before we shall be obliged to think about it.
What shall we do then ? We save no money
even now, you know. By-and-by we must

send these babies to school ; after that they
will want money to help them on in professions.
How are we to do all this ? Our
income won't increase.'

We must try and economize,' I answered,
impressed by the really serious view he
took.

But how ? As it is, we can scarcely
make both ends meet. I am afraid I am
selfish in living as I do. I have serious
thoughts of going into some business and
trying to make a fortune.'

I begged, beseeched him to dismiss the
wild idea. Were we not happy enough withall
we now possessed ? Why change our
mode of life, which was so peaceful and
sweet ? Besides, in my heart of hearts I
doubted if my good, easy-going Walter was
quite fitted for a commercial career. He
kissed me as I pleaded eloquently for a continuation
of our present happiness, and for a
time the subject dropped.

Yet I could see, from remarks he now and
again made, that the thought lingered in his
mind, and I began to fear lest, some day, he
might put it into practical shape, when the

anxieties attendant on money-making or
money-losing might be ours.

It was some months after our conversation
that old Reuben Dyke, a well-known character
in the village of Draycot, came to the
Hall. He wanted to see the master on
important business, he said. This old
Reuben was the greatest gossip of the place
the ale-house oracle — meddler in everyone's
business, and unsolicited adviser-general
to the little world around him. He
was a great authority among the villagers,
many of whom would have backed his
opinion against the united wisdom of a
Daniel and a Solomon. His talk and broad
Somerset accent always amused us, and, it
may be, ensured him a better reception than
his virtues merited.

To-day he entered the room with an indescribable
look of mystery and secrecy on
his shrewd old face. He carefully closed the
door after him and bade us a respectful
good-day. Then, drawing quite close tous,
he spoke in guarded whispers.

I be jest come, sur, to tell 'ee as ther'
have a-bin a chap a strain at the Blue Boar

vor the last two or dree days. Mebby, sur,
as you've a seed un about — a darkish, picket-noised
sort of a chap

Yes, I saw him,' answered Walter.
What about him ?'

Now, look here, sur. None o' we
couldn't at must make out what a wer' upto.
He yet one o' them outsides, you zee.
He weren't lookin' after shopkeepers. He
were a ferrettin' about after land. Zo we up
and axed un what farm a wer' after, or if a
did want to buy any land hereabouts ? He
laughed and zed, ses he, " We be gain to
make a railroad right up drop these yer
valley." Ses I, ''I heap my head won't
yacht till we do get a railway on Mendip,
vor that Is a devilish poor country." " True,"
ses he ; ** but there be a lot o' coal jest under
along Havyat Green and Upper Langford."
Ses I, '' Zo I've a-heerd ;" and ^/len
I seed in a minute which way the cat ewer'
jumping'. He weren't gain to make nar a
railway ; he wanted to zend a cockpit, and
get hold o' some land under false sentences.
Zo, if I wer' you, sur, and if I wer' Mr.
Llewellyn, I should jest keep my eyes open ;

vor I shouldn't wonder if, one o' these here
days, he won't be along and offer 'ee a
hundred and fifty a acre vor some o' your
poorest land. But my advice to you, sur, is
don't 'ee sell it — not vor double the
money.'

After this important communication,
Reuben bowed himself out ; retiring probably
to the kitchen, in order that he might regale
himself with meat and drink and our servants
with the latest village gossip. Walter and I
sat digesting his news.

I wonder if there can be any truth in it,'
said Walter. ' I'll go down tomorrow and
see that fellow at the inn, and ask him pointblank
about it.'

But on the morrow the fellow at the inn
was there no longer. He had departed and
left no address. The landlord only knew
him as plain Mr. Smith. We never saw or
heard of him again — whatever his errand
may have been, it was not revealed to us ;
but, nevertheless, old Reuben's conjecture as
to the object of his sojourn at the Blue
Boar quite unsettled Walter's mind. The
thought that untold wealth might be lying

under our very feet was always present to it,
and at last he resolved to employ experts
who were competent to give an opinion on
the matter, and settle our hopes and doubts.

So, very soon, we were visited by Captain
Thomas Davies of Aberfellteg, and Captain
Davies Thomas of Cwmtygwyn, two gentlemen
whose strangely accented English, redundant
with such words as ' Intent ' and
Intent to goodness,* was a source of great
amusement and enjoyment to each of us.
They inspected, diagnosed, experimented,
and then reported. My poor dear love !
shall I ever forget your excitement, your joy,
as we perused together that glowing joint
production ? What wealth you dreamed of
and counted up ! Not, I know, that you
wished for riches for your own sake — it
was for the sake of wife and children that
the desire of acquiring a large fortune obtained
such a hold on you. Ah me ! how-certain,
how clear and straightforward it all
seemed ! Had not the mining captains
calculated, with an accuracy that seemed
infallible, every ton of coal that lay hidden
beneath our green fields ? Did not their

figures prove beyond dispute the profit each
ton raised must bring ? After every contingency
had been guarded against, what
read like Aladdin's wealth lay waiting for us
to stoop down, take, and enjoy. Why should
we not do so ?

Then other gentlemen came to our quiet
home — legal gentlemen — gentlemen who were
called financiers' — gentlemen learned, very
learned, it seemed to me, in creates, crops,
and soils. Old safes were unlocked, old
plans and musty deeds extracted from their
recesses. I heard the word ' Mortgage ' frequently
; and Walter told me he had resolved
to share his promised wealth with no one.
He would work the projected mines solely on
his own account ; but, in order to begin
operations, money was needful : so he had
arranged with the two financial gentlemen,
Messrs. Leach and Vincent, of Bristol, that
such sums of money as were necessary should
be advanced to him upon the security of his
estate. And these gentlemen applauded
Walter s courageous resolution, and everything
went so pleasantly.

Then the digging began !

Oh, how I hated it ! From the very first I
hated it ! Not only did it spoil one of our
prettiest fields — the one where the children
gathered earliest cowslips — but it brought
strange faces and rough forms to the quiet,
sleepy little village. Men and women of a
very different type to that of labourers roundabout.
Slatternly untidy women and strong
surly men who knew not the traditions of
the land. Men who were supposed to beat
their wives once a week, and who, we knew,
played havoc with our neighbours' costly preserves.
Men who worked hard — very hard
and insisted upon that work being highly
paid for — who spent so large a proportion
of those hard-earned wages in drink, that
the landlords of the opposition village inns
actually shook hands in their unexpected
prosperity ; whilst our kind, old, easy-going
Rector fairly cried at the way in which his
new and unwelcome parishioners were demoralizing
the old ones, and old Reuben
Dyke seemed to look almost patronizingly
upon us, as two deserving young people
helped to fortune by his great sagacity and
wisdom.

So it went on, month after month ; yet I
saw no signs of the advent of that promised
wealth. So far as I could understand it, the
seam of coal hit upon by those clever captains
was a failure. It broke, or dipped, or something
else; so the continuation had to besought
elsewhere. Thereupon Captains
Thomas Davies and Davies Thomas came
over again, inspected again, and reported so
cheerfully that Walter's face lost that look of
anxiety which I had lately seen upon it, and
he pushed on the work more briskly than
before.

Then they told me the right seam had
been found — Walter was radiant. Out of
the first money gained he would send Thomas
Davies and Davies Thomas a hundred
pounds apiece, as an extra recognition due
to their skill and good counsel. Larger
sums than before were furnished by our
financial friends, who came to the Hall once
or twice, and were, I thought, very rude and
familiar in their manner. Machinery and
engines were erected, more men engaged,
and in time, great black heaps began to
accumulate, and grimy black faces met meat

every turn. Our peaceful and beautiful
home was so changed that I began almost
to loathe what had once been the dearest spot
on earth to me, and to long for change of air
and scene.

Money seemed always being paid away —
large sums that frightened me. But was I
not only a woman, who knew nothing of
business ?

Yet all these grievances were nothing to
the grief I felt at seeing the change in my
darling's face. Every week I noticed an
alteration. Gradually, a cloud of care seemed
settling down on his once gay nature, and I
knew his mind was anxious and ill at ease.
He grew thinner : his dark hair showed signs
of premature greyness : his sleep was often
restless and refreshing. Though now, ashe
ever had been, kind and gentle to me, at
times with others he was moody, silent, and
evidently worried. All the brightness of
youth appeared to be leaving him, so much
so, that my heart ached to see him, and I felt
I could bear it no longer. I would learn the
worst he had to tell me, claiming my right

as a true wife to share trouble as well as joy
with my husband.

The confidence I was resolved to claim
came unasked for. One evening Walter
returned home and threw himself into a
chair, apparently utterly broken down. He
covered his eyes with his hands and sobbed
bitterly.

I knelt at his side and my arms were
round him. Then he told me all — I need
not give the details. The bare truth was
this : After all the money spent, the coal
raised was of such a poor quality that every
ton sold was sold at a loss. And more
money than I had ever imagined had been
expended. Of course he had been cheated
I knew he was being cheated the moment
1 saw the faces of the men who had lent him
the money he wanted ; but there was no
help for it, now. Messrs. Leach and Vincent
claimed, for advances, costs and interest, the
enormous sum of close upon ten thousand
pounds. Walter had just come from Bristol,
where these men carried on business, and
after a stormy interview with them, had been
informed that unless the amount was paid by

Saturday, house, lands, and everything would
be at once advertised for sale — and to-day
was Wednesday !

I knew nothing of law, but, even to my
ignorance, this sudden demand and swift
procedure seemed unusual.

But can they do it ?' I asked.

'Yes, I am afraid they can. Months ago,
when they made me a large advance, they
gave me notice to pay the mortgage off It
was a mere matter of form, they said ; but
now they will act upon it. They are thoroughgoing
rogues, and I believe have some scheme
in their heads by which they fancy it possible
to get absolute possession of the whole
estate.'

But, Walter dear, the estate must be
worth thousands more than that amount.'

Oh yes, I can get the money easily
enough. But not in three days. It will cut
me to the heart even to see it all advertised,
although doubtless the sale may be stopped.'

Why not go to that nice old gentleman,
Mr. Mainwaring ?' I suggested. 'You always
call him your family solicitor. He will help
you, I am sure.'

That Is just what I Intend doing. I shall
go to London tomorrow, and show him
exactly how I stand, and beg as a great
favour that I may have the money at once.
When I return I will give orders for all the
men to be discharged and the machinery
sold. There shall be an end of it before it
makes an end of me.'

I was almost hysterical with joy as I heard
his last words.

Oh, my love !' I cried. ' It will all come
right with us yet. We are after all only half
ruined. We can let the Hall and go abroad
for several years. Don't trouble about it
any more. If sou could only know how
happy I am to think I shall have you back
once again, all to myself as of old, you would
be happy too. We will live in some quiet
French or Swiss town, and be everything to
one another again.'

So I talked to him and comforted him,
until he grew more composed, and, kissing
me, owned that life was still worth having,
even if shorn of half its wealth.

That night I slept more happily than I
had slept for months.

The morning's post brought a letter from
Leach and Vincent. It was couched in legal
terms, and stated that unless the amount due
was paid in notes or gold by Saturday at
noon, they would take the threatened steps.
Walter at once despatched a telegram, saying
the money would be paid, and requesting
that the necessary release might be prepared
in order to avoid any delay. Then he
started for London, in quest of ten thousand
pounds.

I had little fear as to the result of his
expedition. I can read faces; and long ago
I had read in Mr. Mainwaring's face the
kindness of his disposition. I knew he was
rich, and that his clients were also rich men ;
moreover, he had a high opinion of Walter,
and held him in what might almost be termed
affection. When he congratulated me upon
my marriage, he told me, in unmistakable
words, what he thought of my husband. So
I was not surprised when, on the Friday
evening, Walter returned with a semblance of
the old joyous smile on his face ; and, after
locking a pocketful of bank-notes in tli(j
safe, sat down by me, and for the rest of the

VOL. IL 19

evening built airy castles, or rather cottages,
full of peacefulness and love.

When I awoke, next morn, my heart was
light ; trouble, it seemed, had been, but
passed away so swiftly that its traces scarce
remained. I threw the window open, and
the fresh sweet air of spring brought gladness
on its wings. The honeysuckle, old
and great, that clothed the wall beneath my
window, just gave signs of breaking into
blossom ; leaning out, I plucked some sprays
and pinned them in my dress. A thrush
sang from a bush below ; my heart kept
echoing his notes of love and joy. What
cared I for the money, or its loss ? Should I
not have my own love back again, and watch
his face regain its old bright look of health
and happiness ? Passed by his side, and
with our children round, would not my life
be pleasant in some quaint old town of
France ? And we would live so carefully,
and save money as years went on, until
some day might bring us to the dear old
Hall again. Unhappy ? — no ! few moments
in my life had happier been than these.

And Walter was cheerful. He would

soon be out of the clutches of his obliging
friends. The shock was over. He had told
me what had been gnawing at his heart for
so long ; he was now looking his troubles
fairly in the face, and, as usually happens,
found them not so terrible in aspect as he
had imagined. He buttoned his bank-notes
in his breast-pocket and started for the
railway station. He felt better and stronger
to-day, and, as the morning was so beautifully
fine, was tempted to walk the five miles,
instead of driving, as he usually did.

We were early risers, so he had plenty of
time, and I thought the walk would do him
good. Perhaps it was the feeling of newly
restored confidence — perfect and true — which
now existed between us that made his farewell
to me that morning even more affectionate
than it was wont to be — made him insist
upon having all the children brought down,
and taking many a kiss from those little rosy
pursed-up lips — made him pause when he
reached the furthest point to which my eyes
could follow him, and turning, waft me one
more farewell.

I should have walked with him, at any

19 — 2

rate, part of the way ; but household duties
had to be attended to ; so, after watching his
tall figure disappear at the turning of the
drive, I re-entered the house, hoping that
the day would pass quickly, and hasten
the evening which would bring him back
again.

Months and months ago I had promised a
friend, who sighed in far away lands for
English fields again, to make, this spring, a
little collection of dried ferns and send it to
her. The anxiety of the last few months
had driven the promise from my mind, but
as, this morning, I pictured our own projected
emigration, my thoughts turned to my
distant friend, and my broken promise came
back to me. I determined that on the first
opportunity I would make amends for my
neglect.

Ferns, many of them scarce ones, grew
plentifully in our pleasant country ; but on
the road that Walter must take on his way
to the station they flourished in unusual
abundance. I could obtain many varieties
close at hand, but some few grew further off;
so I asked Walter, if he should chance to

meet with any specimens of these particular
sorts, to pick a frond or two, which he could
place between the leaves of the book he
carried. I wanted, especially, a specimen of
the Northern Shield Fern, which even here
is not very common, growing as it does in
little patches, sometimes miles apart. He
laughed at my idle request, but promised to
attend to it.

The day wore on, and the sun got low.
It was time to send the dog-cart to meet the
train. Lonof, honor before the time had
elapsed in which, by any chance, it could
return, I was waiting at the window to
welcome Walter home again. I waited and
waited, until so many weary minutes crawled
away that I was fain to conclude he had been
detained in Bristol until the next and last
train.

I nursed my disappointment, and killed
the time as best I could. The hour when I
might surely expect him came and passed.
The train must be late. I opened the
window, and waited and listened for the
sound of his coming.

At last I heard the ring of the horse's

hoofs, and saw the approaching dog-cart
dimly, by the hight of the stars. I ran to
the door, eager to greet my husband ; but, as
the horse drew up on the gravel, I could see
only one figure in the dog-cart — that of
James, our groom. He told me that his
master had come by neither train, so, after
waiting, he had driven back alone.

I turned away, very miserable and sad at
heart, but, strange to say, felt no fear of evil.
Business had, of course, detained him. It
seemed unkind not to have let me know in
some way, but perhaps he could find no
means of doing so. There was not the
slightest chance of his returning to-night, the
distance being far too great for driving. I
must wait until tomorrow.

It was only when I went to bed — alone,
for almost the first time since we were married
— that fear fell upon me, and fancy
brought horrid ideas to my mind — that the
possibility of evil having befallen my husband
came to me. The large sum of money
he carried, the lonely road, the black-faced
colliers about the neighbourhood — all combined
to fill me with a nameless dread — a

terror which I could scarcely put into
thoughts, much less into words. Yet I
strove with my fears, trying to strangle each
one as it was born.

I shall see him tomorrow. To-morrow
I shall see him,' I repeated over and over
again ; and as that morning at last dawned,
I fell into a restless sleep.

But morning brought him not : noon
brought him not — neither letter nor message.
So my heart died within me ; and taking a
maid with me, I started for Bristol by the
afternoon train. It was Sunday : the streets
of the large town looked dreary and deserted
as we passed through them. Knowing Mr.
Leach's private address, we drove straight to
his house. After some delay I was shown
into a room.

By-and-by Mr. Leach entered, with his fat
forefinger closed in a book of sermons which,
I felt instinctively, he had been engaged in-reading
for the benefit of his young vultures.
His smooth face was full of gentle astonishment
that anyone should wish to confer with
him on business matters on that particular
evening in the week. As I looked at him

and read through his mask of hypocrisy, I
knew that the man was a rogue and capable
of committing any crime. When he saw who
his visitor was, his astonished look changed to
one of annoyance. He closed his book entirely,
laying it on the table with the edifying
title turned towards me.

It seems childish to mention such trivial
incidents ; but during that terrible time every
word, every detail, seems graven upon my
memory in deep lines that will never be
effaced.

I have called, Mr. Leach ' I began.

My dear Mrs. Linton, I know why you
have called. But I am sorry to be obliged
to say that your errand is useless — utterly
useless. Mr. Linton made a promise he has
not kept. He cannot blame us for the steps
we have taken.'

A promise not kept ?' I echoed.

Certainly not. He undertook to pay usa
large sum of money yesterday. He has
not been near us — I conclude he is ill,' he
added, with an approach to a sneer.

I sank back in the wildest grief. Then
all my fears of the night, all my forebodings

of the day, were true ! I knew that never —
never again should I look on Walter's face.
He had been murdered — but by whom ?

Mr. Leach endeavoured, after the manner
of his kind, to comfort me. He placed his
fat hand in a soothing way upon my arm.
This action restored my senses to me.

My husband left me only yesterday morning
with the money you claim in his pocket.
I know it for certain. He was going straight
to you. Where is he ? Tell me !'

Mr. Leach gave a start of surprise, but
said nothing. I waited for his answer.

Where is he ?' I reiterated. ' Tell me !'
Mr. Leach placed his finger-tips together,

and looked at me with an expression almost
like placid amusement.

Mrs. Linton,' he said slowly, ' I am a
man of business, and have seen strange
things in my time, so you mustn't be offended
if I ask you a question. Mr. Linton had
the money ready for us, you say. Dirt what
form was it ?'

In notes, sir,' I replied. ' Pie told me
you declined taking anything else.'

Yes, yes — except gold. So we did. Weare

bound to be careful. Now, Mrs. Linton
mind, I mean no offence — do you know
that your husband was much embarrassed ?'

I know he could pay all just debts —
and unjust ones, too,' I answered, with rising
indignation.

Yes, of course. All just and unjust
debts. All unjust debts — very good. Now,
do you think it possible — ten thousand is a
lot of money — do you think it possible that
Mr. Linton may have — well, in plain English,
decamped with it ?'

I heard no more. My face was flaming.
I rose and, without another word, left the
room. I was in the cab before Mr. Leach
had recovered from his surprise, and in
another minute was sobbing my poor heart
out on the shoulder of my maid — a faithful,
good girl who loved me.

I cannot tell you of the next few days.
The uncertainty of everything, yet, to me,
the utter hopelessness. The dread of what
any moment might make known to me. The
searchers searching and hoping to find —
what ? For I knew that the success of their
quest could only bring me the dead body of

my darling — murdered, perhaps, for the sake
of the money he carried. Yet hardest of all
to bear was the knowledge that the sorrow
manifested by those around me was only
assumed out of respect to me ; that no one
believed Walter to be dead ; that the wicked,
cruel slander which had framed itself in Mr.
Leach's mind had entered into the minds of
others. I could read the thought in the faces
of all who came near me during those days.
I knew that the paid seekers performed their
task with a smile on their lips — that the word
went round among them that, in order to be
successful, the search should be, not for a
dead, but for a living man, to find whom it
was needful to look farther away. How was
it I did not go mad ?

I cared nothing when some one told me
that the property, house, and all were advertised
for sale in a few weeks' time. I thought
of nothing, saw nothing but the cold, still face
of the one I loved. I wished for nothing
now but to see his name cleared from the
stain thrown upon it — a stain he would have
heeded more than death ; this done, I wished
to die — that was all. The wild thought

which had at first entered my head, that the
men to whom he owed the money had taken
it and made away with him, was at last dispelled
; for proof was positive that Walter
had not gone to Bristol on that fatal morning.
The passengers from the station were too
few, and Walter too well-known not to have
been noticed. Indeed, no ticket for the class
by which he would certainly have travelled
had been issued that day. No one had met
him that morning, and he had disappeared
without leaving a trace ; for people told me
that every inch of the country near had been
scoured. But I knew they deceived me, and
that the wicked thought was in every heart,
although no one dared to speak It In words
to me, who knew him and loved him.

Mr. Managing, whom I had almost forgotten
in my grief, came down in the course
of a few days. Unfit as I was for business, I
was compelled to see him. The kind old
man was In great distress and anxiety, but
he was very good to me. He started when
he saw that I had already put on mourning.


It Is dreadful,' he said, with tears in his

eyes, and taking both my hands in his.
Not that I care for the money so much —
although, of course, I must make up any
deficiency myself, having been guilty of such
an irregularity. It is dreadful to think that
I, who tried to help Walter, must now strip
his wife and children of their last shilling. I
trusted him so that I let him have my client's
money simply on his note-of-hand, bearing,
of course, all responsibility myself. It was
most irregular ; but he was so urgent, and I
wanted to help him. Poor girl ! I will do
what I can for you, but I am afraid it can be
but little.'

I begged him not to think of us, and
thanked him again and again for his great
kindness.

I would, if only in my own interests, pay
the money again and stop the sale ; but no
one has the power to mortgage the property
to me. We do not even know that Walter is
dead. It cannot, cannot be true, what everyone
seems to hint at ?' he added, almost
shamefacedly.

I burst into a Hood of tears and almost fell
at his feet.

Not you, Mr. Mainspring! Not you !' I
sobbed out. 'You, who knew him, and
knew that dishonour was not in him ! Let
me think that one, at least, believes in my
dead love. Would to God, for my sake, it
were as people think, so that I might some
day see him again.'

The kind old friend raised me.

No,' he said ; * I don't believe It. I have
known him from a boy, and I knew his
father before him. They He who say Walter
Linton could have done such a thing. But it
is all very, very dreadful.'

Mr. Mainspring slept at Draycot Hall
that night, but I could not bring myself to
spend the evening in his company. We
could but think or speak of one subject, and
I felt I had no right to inflict my grief upon
him. I should be better alone. I watched
the children sink to sleep, and for some hours
sat by their little white beds listening to their
regular breathing. Then I kissed them all
gently and very quickly, lest my hot tears, 
upturned faces should awake them;
and, near midnight, retired to what with me
would wrongly be called rest. I locked the

door of my room, undressed myself, and satin
my dressing-gown over the fire ; for the
night being damp and cold, my good maid
had kindled a fire for me.

And there I sat, not seeking rest. I knew
that sleep and I must strangers be for hours :
that not until my strength was quite worn
out would sad thoughts cease and change to
sadder dreams : not till at last from sheer
fatigue they fell, would weary eyelids curtain
tearful eyes. And so I sat, till slowly died
the fire, and morning air stole chilly through
the room — thinking of all the joy and sweetness
life so lately promised, all It gave me
now. It seemed so hard to lose the one I
loved — lost, as it were, in darkest night, with
none to say where he had wandered.

Oh !' I cried, ' if I could see you once and
say farewell, although your words came but
from dying lips I I should not grieve so
much, and for the sake of children dear to
both might live, and even not go mad.'

The wind had risen with the night, and
gusts now and again bore heavy rain that
beat against my window ; whilst the tall
trees round moaned as the cradle went tearing

through their boughs. The world seemed
full of dismal sounds and grief, and I the
saddest in the world. At last sleep conquered
sorrow, so I threw myself down on
the bed and slept. How long it was I slept
I cannot tell, for all the while I seemed awake
and seeing fearful sights. Cruel voices whispered
words that stabbed my heart, so that in
dreams I longed for wakefulness. Then I
awoke and heard the wind and rain, louder
and fiercer, whilst the room looked strange,
as morning dawned in cheerless grey, and
crept in through the half turned blind.

I felt dazed. For a moment I could
scarcely realize where I was, or quite recall
what had happened. I even turned, from
force of habit, to see if Walter, who should
be by my side, was also awake. Then, as I
saw the vacant pillow by mine, all came back
to me — came back with such a reflux of
sorrow, that, in my despair, I threw out my
arms, and sobbing bitterly, called on the one
who could not hear me. My right hand lay
as it had fallen, outside the coverlet, and, ina
minute, I almost shrieked with horror and
alarm ; for I felt another hand seek it, touch

it ; and I experienced the sensation of fingers
closing round my own. Hastily I tore my
hand away from that clasp — if what held
without restraining, made itself distinctly felt
without offering resistance, can be called a
clasp — and sprang from the bed. Courageous
as I am by nature, I trembled like a leaf, and
had it been dark when that unknown hand
sought mine, my horror must have vented
itself in screams. But the room was nearly
light ; so In a few moments I conquered that
overpowering fright, and looked around for
the intruder. I peered into every nook in
which one might possibly hide, but detected
no one. The door was as firmly locked as I
left it. I was alone, for no one could have
entered either by door or window. Then I
sat down and reasoned with myself on
my folly. It was fancy from a mind upset
and overwrought with grief. It was the
lingering impression left by one of those
dreams — those dreadful dreams which sleep
had brought me ! It was a pure delusion, a
creation of my own, and I wondered if, as I
feared at times, I was going out of my
senses. Although I was able to persuade
VOL. ir. 20

myself that this reasoning was correct, I
dared not return to my bed, but, sitting once
more in my chair, longed for broad daylight.
My thoughts soon wandered away from
my recent fright, and took that path which
they always followed. My arm dropped to
my side, and my fingers relaxed themselves.
And then, once more, I felt that hand creep
to mine, take it, and hold it. Again I felt
the unmistakable sensation of fingers that
closed round mine. I felt that there was no
hand in mine that my hand could clasp in
return, but the sensation of a palm against
my palm — fingers twining my fingers — was
indisputable. The sensation of pressure was
there — faintly, it is true, but it was there.
It was no fancy, no dream, this time.
Whether mortal or not, a hand, or the semblance
of a hand, was holding mine. Again
the horror overcame me — again I strove to
tear my hand away from this invisible clasp.
My blood curdled as I found the result of
my efforts failed on this second occasion —
found that the fingers which fastened on my
own could not be shaken off, do what I
would. As I moved my hand, even so the

hand that held It moved with it. If 1
clenched my own, I could yet feel the strange
pressure of those unseen fingers. If I
grasped my right hand in my left, there was
still the sensation of another hand between
my own, Do what I would, move how I
would, that clasp, or phantom of a clasp, was
ever on my hand. Yet I struggled with fear
until the awful thought flashed through my
brain that this was the aura, the forerunner
of paralysis or epilepsy. Then I could bear
it no longer. Whether that grasp was the
result of bodily or mental ailment, I could bear
it no longer — I felt my mind was going. I
rushed to the door, tore it open, and my
screams rang through the house. Remember,
I was but a woman, and alone.

As the sound of hurrying feet drew near,
that hand or hand-clasp lying on my own
quitted it. Then, as the strange sensation
ceased, did I hear a mournful sound, like
a sigh, or was it only the wind outside ?
Did the phantom fingers draw themselves
away from mine soothingly, even, it seemed,
reluctantly, or was that fancy too ? As the
servants with frightened looks drew near me,

20 — 2

could that wild and joyful thought that flashed
through my brain be more than the thought
of a madwoman ? What could it mean ?

Except for this I was myself again. I
had been frightened, I told all who came tome
— frightened by dreams, by shadows, by
solitude, and my own thoughts. No one
wondered at it ; what flesh and blood could
stand, unmoved, the anxiety I had borne
during the last week ?

I was overwrought and suffering from
sleeplessness, so Mr. Mainwaring insisted
upon giving me an opiate. I swallowed it
reluctantly, and my maid sat with me, until,
in due time, dull sleep told of the potency
and efficacy of the drug which I had been
made to take.

This artificial sleep lasted without a break
until late in the afternoon. Then I awoke
refreshed, and in full possession of my senses.
I arose and prayed, as I had never prayed
before, that my hand might again feel that
unseen touch which had nearly driven me
mad in the night. * Will it come again ? O,
let it come again !' was the constant cry of
my heart ; and I longed ardently for the

night, which, perhaps, might bring that hand
seeking my own again. For, incredible as
it seems, I knew, when those fingers last left
mine, that love had in part conquered death
that Walter had been with me. Now I
feared nothing. Why should I fear ? He
had loved me living — he loved me now.
Whether he came to me in body or in spirit,
should he not be welcome ? Oh, that he
might come again !

And he came again. Mr. Mainwaring,
who would not leave Draycot that day on
account of the apparently strange state of
my health, that evening insisted upon my
taking a turn in the garden. I obeyed him,
although every plant, every blossom around,
seemed breathing sadness. I was too tired
to walk for longer than a few minutes, but
sat on my favourite seat, and watched the
sun sink behind the hills. Even then and
there — in broad daylight — I felt his hand
seek my own, and my heart leapt with joy.
I shunned or strove to avoid it no longer.
I let my hand lie still, and again I felt the
touch, or the spirit of the touch, of the one I
loved. So naturally those fingers closed

round mine ; so familiar seemed that clasp
to me, that could I have forgotten the last
week, I might have closed my eyes, and,
lying there with my hand in his, have
thought I had only to open them to
happiness once more. If I could but
forget !

Even if I had not known in whose hand
mine was resting, the caress those fingers
eave me would have told me. I wondered
why I feared and repulsed them at first. If
only I could sometimes sit as I sat then, and
know and feel that Walter was beside me, I
thought that life might even be happy. So
I turned my head towards him, and said,
softly — so softly :

Dearest love, sou will come often and
often, will you not ? You will be always
with me ; then I shall not be unhappy.'

He answered not, but I felt a change in
the clasp of his hand, and I pondered as to
what its meaning could be. Then I fancied
that faintly, very faintly, that touch was endeavouring
to make me understand something
which m}^ grosser earthly faculties
failed to grasp — to direct, to lead me somewhere

for some purpose. For it left me and
came again, left and came again, till at last
I learnt its meaning.

Then and there I rose. * I come, my
love,' I said. And once more Walter Linton
and his wife walked, as they had walked
many a time before hand-in-hand down the
broad garden path ; past the rustic lodge,
covered with rosebuds and woodbine; through
the gateway ; out into the high - road. I
feared nothing : the hand of the one I loved
was in mine, and guiding me whither he
chose ; moreover, it was yet daylight, and I
was not dreaming.

I even knew that Mr. Mandarine followed
us as we walked down the path. I saw him
come to my side and look at me with wonder.
I wanted no one to be near my husband and
myself, so I waved him back imperiously.
Follow if you like,' I said, * but do not
speak to us.' Perhaps he thought I was
mad, perhaps that I was walking in my
sleep, and, if so, feared to awake me. Anyway,
he followed us silently, and that was all
I knew or cared about him, or about anything
else. For were not my love and I

walking, once more, hand-in-hand, and it was
not in a dream ?

Along and along the road, each side of
which is beautiful with its green banks and
hedges, and every inch of which we know,
even keeping to that side we always choose
because the flowers grow thickest there.
How fresh and green everything looks this
evening ! The swallows are flying here and
there. Every blade of glass is washed clean
from dust by the heavy rain of the morning.
No. I am not dreaming. I am walking
with my husband. A nightingale breaks
into song near us, as we walk. We stop —
who could help stopping to listen ? Now its
melody ceases, and Walter leads me on. It
is like in the old days when we were first
wed ; before we thought or wished for more
wealth. Those days when all the country
round was fresh and new to me. Never did
the wild-flowers, I think, look gayer than
they look this evening, although they are
closing fast. I would stop, my darling, and
gather a bunch for the children ; but they
have so many flowers at home, and I fear to
loose your hand for a moment. Besides,

you wish to lead me further yet ; we have
somewhere to go to this evening. I forget
whither It was you told me, Walter. Is It to
the lily-pond, to see If we can find any snow-white
cups floating, buoyed up by the broad
green leaves ? Is It to climb the hill that
lies In front of us, and see the very last of
the glorious sun; to catch the crimson sparkle
of Its rays on the distant windows of our dear
home ? That sun which will rise tomorrow,
and waken us both so early — for you will
never leave me again, Walter — promise me,
my darling — I have been so unhappy. Is it
further yet ? To the ruins of the grey old
abbey where the poet's Ivy grows so freely ?
Shall we wait there, as once before, and seethe
full moon shine through the rose of the
east windows ? Shall we wander arm-in-arm
through the dim shades, laughing at the
foolish monks who chose to live and die
there, knowing not love, nor the sweetness
of life when two share its joys and troubles ?
But our troubles are over now, are they not,
dearest ? No matter, lead me whither you
will : I care not — you are with me, your hand
Is In mine, and I am happy. But wherever

we go, we will walk back by moonlight, and
then creep up quietly and kiss the children
just once before we go to bed. To-morrow
we will wake and love assail. No, I am not
dreaming. But why do you not speak to me
and tell me where you have been — why you
left me so long ? Oh, how I have wept and
waited for you ! Dearest, you will never
leave me again ?

This Is the spot you wished to lead me to —
the place where the ferns grow ? Ah, you remembered
what I wanted. Are there any of
that sort up there ? Let us go and see,
although the day is flying fast. Through
the hazel bushes — deep, deep into the underwood
— on and on — up and up — brambles and
stones ! I did not know it was so steep
here. Hold my hand firmer and help me.
More bushes, more undergrowth ; and how
the twilight fades ! My darling, we shall find
no ferns to-night. May we not go back and
come again tomorrow ? Yet, on and on !
Love, where you lead I follow and fear not !
Is not your hand In mine, and you will never
eave me again ! Still on ! My darling, you
have brought me to the very edge of a

rock ! Don't leave me here ! Don't draw

your hand from mine ! Stay one minute —

one moment longer ! I cannot see you ; it

is dark and cold ! I cannot feel you, and the

world seems filling again with grief Come

back ! Come back ! Walter ! Walter !
* * * *

They told me I dreamed it — that I walked
in my sleep. Clever and learned men said
so, and I am only a woman, neither clever
nor learned. Mr. Mainwaring, who had
with great difficulty followed us — for I say
us in spite of all that wisdom can urge —
found me lying lifeless at the brink of the
rocky depth to which Walter had led me,
and where he had left me. Down below me
lay something that I, thank God, never saw.
They bore it home and told me it was all
that was left of Walter Linton, my husband.
But I knew better, for had he not that evening
walked hand in hand with me for miles ?
They told me, also, that he had fallen from
the top of the rock — that it was not a great
height, but high enough for the fall to kill
him instantaneously — that most likely he was
led to that fatal place, seeking some rare

plant; as a root and withered leaves were
clenched in his hand — that the notes he had
placed in his pocket when he left his home
were still there — that Draycot was still mine
and his children's. But they believe me not
when I tell them that my love, my husband,
through the power of the love he bore me,
could come from the dead — could take my
hand in his and lead me with him, on and
on, till he showed me where and how he
died — till he saved those he loved from utter
ruin and a life of penury — till, more than
all, he cleared his own dear memory from
stain and dishonour. Yet these things
were !

Chapter I.

It will simplify matters if I say at once that
I am a strange girl. After this confession,
you will be more inclined to believe that my
story is a true one, and, it may be, condemn
my conduct less. If your godfathers and godmothers
think fit to give you a strange name,
they can scarcely expect you to be exactly
the same as other people ; and the name someone
chose to christen me by is a strange one.
'Heritage' is certainly not in common use,
although, when one gets accustomed to it, it
sounds soft and rather pretty, especially so
when coupled with my surname. ' Heritage
Rivers ' is not at all bad.

I am quite sure that in most instances
people's natures accommodate themselves to

their names. Nearly all the Lucy I have
known have been fair and romantic ; nearly
all the Fanes and Susans homely and fond of
housekeeping. A girl's career seems often
to be settled by her name. So, having no
precedent to show me what the owner of the
name of Heritage should be like, I always
plead it as an excuse for any peculiarities of
disposition. Nevertheless, I am not called
upon to dissect my mental qualities for the
benefit of the inquisitive, so shall only say
that one of my chief characteristics is that of
being a good hater. I like and respect a
good hater. No doubt, it is unchristianlike ;
but it is so natural. I am not ashamed to
say that if people injure me, I don't forget or
forgive until I feel I am about even with
them. Of course, if anyone who had
wronged me asked forgiveness, I should forgive
freely enough — I don't see how that can
be avoided — but I should never be eager todo
my enemy a good turn unless I felt quite
sure of heaping coals of fire upon his head !
Now you know what manner of being I am ;
and very dreadful the description looks as I
write it ; so dreadful, that I am obliged to

comfort myself by thinking of the reverse of
the picture — that I can be as true a friend as
an enemy.

It is not so many years ago that I, Heritage
Rivers, a slim girl of seventeen, left
school, and stepped out Into the grown-up
world to meet what fate awaited me. For
the time, my only idea was to enjoy my
freedom. It was delightful to think that
masters and mistresses were finished and
done with for ever and a day. So I bade
them a glad adieu, and went down into the
country to stay with an aunt of mine, and
for several weeks revelled in sunshine and
liberty. Then, In accordance with a solemn
promise, I spent some little time with an old
school-friend — one, like myself, just emancipated.
Her people lived at Twickenham, ina
delicious old house with a large garden.
I was made heartily welcome. The mother
took me to her heart as her daughter's
dearest friend. The father, a court repaired
man, with literary tastes and pursuits,
was kindness and politeness itself; whilst
Clara Ramsay's brothers were in an hour my
devoted slaves and lovers. Surrounded by

such pleasant attentions, I began to realize
the fact that I was now a grown-up young
lady, not altogether unattractive, and so
valued myself accordingly.

As the Ramsayss were quiet people and
kept little company, an announcement made
by Mrs. Ramsay that a dinner-party was
projected was sufficient to flutter our hearts.
For several days before it took place, we
discussed again and again the merits of the
guests who were to be present. As Clara
knew them all except one, her interest was
centred on the probable appearance of this
gentleman. As even her mamma did not
know him, all information respecting him
must be extracted from Mr. Ramsay, whose
friend he was. Girls being inquisitive creatures,
Clara, at breakfast-time, egged on by
me, began her inquiries.

Who is Mr. Vincent Hope, papa ?'

A friend of mine, my dear. A very clever
young man, who will one day, I think, be a
most distinguished member of society.'

So far as it went, this reply was satisfactory
; but we wanted a categorical testimonial,
not a general one.

How will he distinguish himself?' asked
Clara.

He is a rising author — little known as
yet ; but all that must come.'

O dear !' sighed Clara plaintively ; ' I
know exactly the sort of man. I have seen
so many of them here. Of course he wears
spectacles ?'

I don't think he does — or if so, I never
noticed them replied Mr. Ramsay.

You never notice anything you ought to,
papa. But he is sure to have a horrid beard
unkempt and uncared for. They all
have.'

He has no beard, I fancy,' answered Mr.
Ramsay meditatively.

Is he good-looking and nice ?' demanded
the audacious Clara.

Mr. Ramsay looked much amused at his
daughter s question.

/ find him nice,' he said. * But what a
chit of a girl like you may find him, is
another matter — a very small matter. I
should think that most people would call
him extremely good-looking.'

Is he dark or fair — tall or short ?'
VOL. II. 21

My dear girl, I shall answer no more
questions about him. Why don't you imitate
the discretion of Miss Rivers, who seems
free from your failing — curiosity.'

I blushed at such undeserved praise ;
whilst Clara, to show her opinion of my false
pretences, nudged me under the table.

Although Mr. Ramsay would tell us
nothing more, we, in our idle moments,
which were many, speculated a great deal as
to the probable personal appearance of Mr.
Vincent Hope. I had a certain right to feel
some anxiety about the matter, as I was
informed that it would be my lot to be taken
in to dinner by him ; therefore, it was a
great comfort to me to hear he wore neither
spectacles nor beard.

I know he will be delightful !' cried
Clara. * I feel sure the whole matter is
arranged by fate. Of course he will fall in
love with you at once ! Who could help
doing so ? You will look so nice, Heritage !'

This is the way in which foolish young
women chatter at times.

It would be my first dinner-party — an
ordeal always trying to a young girl. Anyway,

I dreaded it. In spite of Clara s well-meant
compliments, my mind was not easy.
I mistrusted the appearance I should present.
My new dress, I fancied, fitted me
badly ; and I was haunted by a presentiment
that my hands and the backs of my arms
were destined to grow crimson. So distressing
were my fears, that, as the hour
approached, I would much rather have
joined the boys, who, not being admitted to
the feast, had gone off for a jolly long rowan
the river — *to get out of it all,' they
said.

As I dressed myself, I wondered whether
I should quite know what to eat, what to
drink ; and above all, if any one should
deign to speak to me, what to talk about.
Perhaps, I thought, all this comes instinctively.
If, happily, such is the case, could it
be possible, as Clara boldly predicted, that I
should carry the little world by storm ? I
took one last glance at the mirror. After all,
I did not look so very much amiss. Then,
a few minutes before the hour struck, I
entered the drawing - room, feeling almost
sanguine.

The guests arrived — two by two. ' Like
animals going Into the ark,' whispered Clara,
who, having seen a little more society than I
had, seemed quite at her ease. Mr. Vincent
Hope, as became a distinguished man, was
late. At least, It was not until a few
moments before dinner was announced that
Mr. Ramsay brought a gentleman to me and
presented him.

We bent to each other ; then, taking his
arm, I joined the procession to the diningroom.
Of course I dropped my fan, or
something, by the way. This necessitated
my cavalier s stooping down to recover possession
of It, thereby delaying all the couples
behind us for a moment or two. I was
beginning badly.

We sank into our appointed places, and as
the soup was being handed round, Mr. Hope
addressed a few ordinary remarks to me.
Then I began to realize how shy — how
stupid a person I was. The only words my
foolish tongue seemed capable of forming
were * Yes ' and ' No.' Connected words
had left me for an Indefinite period. I felt
my conversational shortcomings so acutely,

that it was some little while before I was
able to look at my neighbour, except furtively
and timidly.

He was tall, I knew; that fact had made
itself manifest as we walked arm-in-arm. I
had also received a sort of impression that
he was good-looking. At last, when able to
really look at him, I found that Mr. Ramsay's
account, so far as it went, was a true
one.

The young man was undoubtedly handsome.
His eyes — the feature a woman first
looks at — were good : grey, I decided, with
dark lashes. His face was pale, and bore a
look of refinement. His forehead was high
not too high — and his chin was large, and
gave him the appearance of possessing considerable
force of character. Above all, his
nose was straight, and his hands well shapen.
Twenty-eight, I should have guessed his
age. Altogether, a very creditable young
man.

Fate had been kind in selecting this
companion for me, if only I could find something
to talk about — something so gifted a
creature as he was reported to be would not

be bored with. Alas for me, the conversation
field seemed to have become suddenly-barren
of flowers of speech — not even a bud
was left ! Yet amongst people with whom I
am at home, I had never yet been accused of
taciturnity.

For some short time the lady on the other
side of him saved me. She appeared to
know him, and complimented him on the
success of an article in one of the reviews,
which she attributed to him. He thanked
her for her praise ; spoke a few words on
general subjects ; then, as I suppose, in duty
bound, turned to me and recommenced conversation.


In five minutes, I positively hated myself
and Mr. Vincent Hope. It may be kindness
to bring one's intellect down to the
level of the listener; I call it conceit. If, in
spite of my elaborate new dress, he could
not help seeing I was but a schoolgirl,
was there any reason why he should so
plainly show me he saw it ? Was there any
reason why he should quite change the
manner of his discourse as he changed his
listener — should talk to me in a way he

evidently thought suited to my calibre ? If
he meant it kindly, what right had he to
think I should esteem it kindness ? I daresay
I deserved nothing more ; but who was
he to judge of my deserts ? It ruffled my
vanity, and destroyed any self-confidence I
was beginning to feel. The worst of it was,
he meant no rudeness.

He did not even pretend to patronize me ;
he simply chose to talk upon subjects which
he was pleased to think were well within
my limited range. It was mortifying! I
twisted up my dinner - napkin under the
table, as a sort of vent to my vexation.
Soon I grew desperate. I would show this
man I was not the inane, empty-headed
schoolgirl he fancied me, or I would perish
in the attempt.

My fluency of speech came back as suddenly
as it left me. On my own account, I
began to talk — of topics about which I knew
nothing — of places I had never visited — of
people I had never seen — and of books I
had never read.

He seemed amused at my new departure,
and, I flattered myself, tried to lead me onto

talk. So talk I did, and thought no evil.
It was not until I had once or twice gone
completely out of my depth, right over head
and shoulders, and was compelled to flounder
back as best I could, that I fancied the
wretched man was laughing at me — not
openly, of course ; his manner was politeness
itself. Yet I had an unpleasant suspicion
that more than once I had made myself
an idiot in his eyes.

I positively detest people who have the
misfortune to see me at a disadvantage ; so,
when I rose with the rest of the women and
left the table, I felt that it would have been
a great satisfaction to have given Mr. Vincent
Hope's broad shoulders a Parthian stab with
a dessert-fork. I had not been a success ;
and, what was worse, I knew it !

It was dull work in the drawing-room.
The women were strangers to me, and
talked about their own and their friends'
affairs, in none of which I had the slightest
interest. It was very hot too. I peeped
out of the window, and saw the garden
looking most tempting in the light of a
lovely autumnal moon. How delightful it

would be if I could have one walk round
it!

I doubted whether it would be quite right
for a young lady to walk about the garden
alone and by moonlight ; but the temptation
was very great. After all, I have always
found it much easier and often pleasant to
yield to little temptations of this kind than
to resist them ; so I soon gave in. Even at
the risk of a cold or a scolding, I would
have one, just one turn in the soft September
night.

I slipped from the room, covered my head
and shoulders with a shawl, and stole through
the library window which opened to the
ground.

The change from the close atmosphere of
Mr. Ramsay's drawing-room was, as I predicted
it would be, simply delicious. The
clear sky, the full moon, and the bright stars
which had tempted me out, made me feel
quite poetical. I forgot all my little annoyance
in the beauty of the night ; I became
quite cheerful and happy. The one turn
round the garden, which I had pledged myself
not to exceed, grew to a great many ; yet

I was loath to leave the enchanting scene.
But duty must not be altogether neglected.
With a sigh, I turned for the last time, and
began to retrace my steps to the house. To
my horror, as I neared it, I saw the French
casements of the dining-room open, saw the
flood of brilliant light which poured out
partially eclipsed as one dark body after
another passed through the aperture. I
realized in a moment the frightful position in
which I was placed. The men were coming
out to get a breath of fresh air and to smoke
a cigarette before entering the drawing-room.
What could I do ? I was certain to be seen.
By the light of the wonderful moon, everything
was as clearly visible as by broad daylight.
I shrank from the polite ridicule with
which my nocturnal wanderings were sure to
be greeted ; in truth I was now rather ashamed
of the freak which had led me into such an
awkward situation. I wished to extricate
myself without having to make excuses and
explanations, and as I shuddered at the
thought of walking boldly past the knot of
gentlemen, I was compelled to adopt the
alternative — concealment.

On the lawn near to me grew one of
those conical trees — a species of laurel — the
foliage of which touches the ground, and
leaves the centre nearly hollow. This particular
tree was so large that it formed a
natural summer-house, and to enable it to
fulfil its mission, an entrance had been cut
through the boughs on the side farthest from
the house. It was the very thing — a perfect
harbour of refuse !

Careless of insects, heedless of the twigs
which caught and tugged at my hair, but
groaning, nevertheless, as I thought of my
new frock, I rushed inside, unseen and, I
hoped, unheard, resolved to wait behind the
friendly boughs until the voices which I heard
in the distance died into silence. Feeling
quite sure that no one would be likely to
explore the leafy recesses of my hiding-place,
I began to grow easy in my mind, and even
ventured to compliment myself upon the
cleverness I had displayed. My triumph
was short-lived. In a few moments I became
aware that voices were drawing near
to me — so alarmingly near, that very soon I
was able to recognise them and distinguish

what they were saying. It was Mr. Vincent
Hope and his host, who had strolled away
from their friends.

You have a fine specimen of the Portuguese
laurel here,* said the former.

Yes,' replied Mr. Ramsay. 'It's a fine
tree of the kind. They seldom grow larger.
Indeed, this one Is beginning to die down.
There is an entrance cut on the other side ;
so It makes a shady, but uncomfortable, warm-weather
retreat.'

Then I knew that the two gentlemen were
coming round to the entrance. I was in
despair. I cowered down in the darkness,
and prayed that Mr. Hope's curiosity might
not induce him to pursue his botanical researches
Into the interior. I saw his head
and shoulders fill up the entrance and hide
the moonlight falling there. For the moment,
I was undecided whether to shriek with
horror, to endeavour to scare him away by
growling like a wild beast, or to lie still and
trust to chance. On the whole, the last
seemed the wisest course to adopt. I breathed
more freely when I found he had no Intention
of entering — the recesses were not tempting

at night. I hoped the two men would now
remove themselves. But, alas ! my imprisonment
was not yet to be ended. They stood
exactly in front of the entrance, and from my
hiding-place I could hear every word they
spoke.

Chapter II,

Much as I disliked that young man, I was
bound to confess that he looked provokingly
handsome as he stood bareheaded in the
moonlight, watching the wreaths of smoke
from his cigar curling about in the still air.
I could now scan him quite at my ease. My
courage had returned, and I felt myself insured
against discovery. My only dread was
that the two men would beorin to talk secrets.
In such a case, my keen sense of honour
must, of course, make me reveal my presence.
I made a firm resolution that I would not play
at eavesdropping. Alas, for poor humanity !
I n a minute I was straining my ears to catch
every word. Yet how could I help it ?
Heritage Rivers was the subject of their discourse.


I hope you found your companion at
dinner a pleasant one ?' said Mr. Ramsay.

Oh yes ; very pleasant replied Mr. Hope
carelessly. 'She's a nice sort of a girl, I daresay.'


A nice sort of a girl ! The wretched man !
I hated him !

We think a great deal more of her than
that,' said that dear old Mr. Ramsay.

Indeed,' replied his companion, without
evincing the slightest interest in the
matter.

Yes — Indeed and Indeed,' echoed my old
friend. ' But, joking apart, did you not
notice she bids fair to be a most beautiful
woman ?'

It would have needed little more to have
brought me from my lurking-place on purpose
to kiss that good old man !

Vincent Hope laughed quiet.

To tell you the truth,' he said, ' I don't
think I noticed her much. She seemed tome
of the ordinary schoolgirl type. I don't
care much for schoolgirls.'

I dug my nails Into my hands and ground
my teeth. Handsome as the man looked in

the moonlight, I could have killed him then
and there.

Yet,' said Mr. Ramsay, * I noticed she
talked pretty freely to you.'

The shrug of Mr. Hope's shoulders almost
maddened me.

Yes; but sad nonsense,' he said, 'although
it was rather amusing at times. Of course,
It's not fair to judge her now. She is very
raw, and, I should say, rather awkward.
If properly looked after, no doubt she will
grow up to be a decent sort of a young
woman.'

Raw and awkward ! He spoke of me —
me, whom many of my school-friends called
Queen Heritage, from the stately and dignified
manner I was supposed to assume at
times. A decent sort of a young woman !
That I should hear a man, one, moreover, in
his own opinion a judge on such matters,
gravely set this up as the standard to which
I might arrive — if properly looked after. It
was too much ; the fall was too great. And
as the horrible thought flashed across me that
his description might be true, his prediction
correct, tears of sheer mortification sprang

into my eyes. Even Mr. Ramsay's almost
testy rejoinder gave me no comfort.

Oh, nonsense, Hope ! She will grow up a
beautiful, accomplished, and clever woman.
You judge her wrongly. Talk to her again
in the drawing-room ; there she will be more
at home.'

'All right, I will,' the wretch answered.
But at present I want to talk to you about
more important things than young ladles. I
have to-day been offered the editorship of the
Piccadilly Magazine. Shall I take it ?'

I congratulate you. But it is too serious
a matter to decide out here. We will talk it
over by-and-by. We must join the ladles
now. I see every one else has gone in.'

Then I suppose we must,' said Mr. Hope
rather ruefully, and tossing his cigar away
with a half-sigh.

I waited a minute ; then I peered out, and
at last ventured to creep round the laurel and
reconnoitre. The broad back of my candid
critic was just disappearing through the diningroom
window. I shook my fist viciously at
it. I watched Mr. Ramsay follow his guest,
saw the window close and the blind fall ;

then I flew at top speed to the Library, whence
I had made my exit, entered noiselessly, and
threw myself into a chair, feeling that my
life was blighted.

The room was faintly lit up ; the door was
closed ; I was alone with my misery ; for
misery it was ; I use the word soberly and
advisedly, without a thought of jesting. Fortunately
or unfortunately, I had heard myself
appraised at my true value. My merits had
been weighed by an impartial hand ; I had
been judged and condemned. I was a failure.
Raw and awkward,' ' A decent sort of a
young woman ' — the words ate into my heart.
No expressions could have been devised
which would have wounded me more deeply.

He would give me another chance in the
drawing-room. Would he ? I think not,
Mr. Vincent Hope. No power on earth
shall take me there to-niorht. I turn the seas
up, and look at myself In the mirror. My
hair is dishevelled, my eyes are red, and I
cannot help fancying that my nose looks rather
coarse. Yes ; it must be true ; I am not even
good-looking.

Beneficial as It may be for one who is not

VOL. ir. 22

Without vanity to learn the truth, I hate with
a deadly hatred the man who has revealed it
to me. Solemnly I declare, somehow, that
some day I will have my revenge. I am
very young, which is an advantage to one
who may have to wait a long time for a
certain object. O yes ; I can wait — even for
ten, fifteen, or twenty years, I can wait ; but
I will have revenge, full revenge. So I
raved on and on, growing more tragical every
moment, until I broke down, and began to
cry again.

I had barely dried my eyes, when Clara
entered the room.

What, Heritage!' she cried; 'you here!
I have hunted high and low for you, but
never thought of looking here. Come into
the drawing-room ; we must sing our duet.'

I pleaded a splitting headache ; I could
not bear the hot room. I should go to bed
at once ; and in spite of Clara's entreaties, to
bed I went, and had the pleasure of dreaming
that I was sticking stilettos and scissors into
Mr. Vincent Hope. This was so comforting,
that I was quite sorry when morning came
and I found it was but a dream.

Wasn't he delightful ?' was Clara's first
question when we met.
Wasn't who delightful ?'

Mr. Hope, of course. The other men were
fogies.'

Now, Clara, look here. Once for all, I
tell you I found that young man detestable —
simply detestable ! I hate him. I never met
anyone I took such a dislike to.'

Clara's blue eyes opened in amazement.

I thought you got on so well together,'
she said. ' He asked for you in the drawing-room,
and seemed quite sorry to hear you
were ill. We all liked him immensely.'

He asked after me ! A piece of impertinence
— a gratuitous Insult — a piece of superfluous
hypocrisy, which, were It possible, made
my wish for revenge stronger.

'Well, I loathe him,' I said, 'and there's an
end of it. I won't even talk about him.'

I was as good as my word, and Clara,
for the want of a listener, was obliged to
desist from ringing the changes in praise of
Mr. Hope.

I left Twickenham two or three days after
this. As I drove to the station, Mr. Hope

22 — 2

most likely on his way to the Ramsayss'
house — passed the carriage. Clara was with
me, so the young man bowed to us collectively.
I made no sign of recognition.

Heritage,' said Clara, * that was Mr. Hope.
Didn't you see him ?'

Was it ?' I replied. ' I had quite forgotten
what he was like.'

For a beginner, this was a pretty good
fib. After telling it so calmly, I felt I was
getting on. * Raw and awkward !' Oh no ! I
did not forget either the words or the
speaker. When I declare vendetta, I
mean it.

Five years passed by. I was twenty-two.
I had seen many people and many things.
Either for better or worse, I had changed in
much, but still retained my knack of never
forgetting a foe or a friend. Incredible as it
seems, my anger against Mr. Hope was keen
as ever — my wish for revenge as strong.
The injury he had unwittingly done me had
been greater than, even in my first burst of
rage, I had imagined. During the interval
his words kept recurring to my mind, and

hindered the growth of proper confidence and
self-esteem. A long series of pleasant little
social triumphs alone permitted me to say at
last that his prophecy had not been fulfilled.
But now, after five years, the more I thought
of the annoyance, even anguish, his words
had caused me, the more vicious I felt
towards him ; the more resolved to compass
revenge when the opportunity occurred. Oh
yes ; I was a good hater — not a doubt of it.
I could carry my stone seven years in my
pocket, then turn it and carry it seven years
more, or twice seven years, never for a moment
forgetting its ultimate destination.

But when should I have the chance of
hurling it, and how should I act when the
chance came ? Except in the street, casually,
I had never since met the man. Vincent
Hope visited no friends of mine save the
Ramsayss. They left Twickenham shortly
after my visit, and now lived a hundred
miles from town. I had stayed with them
several times, but my foe had never appeared.
Of course, I had heard a great deal about
him. He was now quite a famous man. To
keep myself posted up in the light literature

of the day, I was compelled to read his
books, and in honesty I am bound to say I
admired them, although I detested the author
of them. Surely we must meet some day.
I went out a great deal, and I heard he was
much sought after. But our paths as yet had
not crossed.

It was winter. I was spending some
weeks with new friends, who had taken a
great fancy tome — kind hospitable people, who
liked to have a constant stream of visitors
passing, but very slowly, through their house.
The Lightens were a wealthy county family,
noted for their open-handed hospitality. I
never stayed at a gayer or pleasant place
than Blaize House. It was not very large ;
but from the way in which it seemed to extend
itself to accommodate the numerous
guests, my belief is it must have been built on
the plan of an accordion. I can only account
for its capabilities by this theory.

Except from the tiny village which gave
or took its name, Blaize House was miles
away from everywhere ; but its resources, sofar
as amusement went, made it immaterial
in what part of the world it stood. The

family consisted of Mr. Lighton — called by
everyone, even his guests, the Squire ; his
wife, a fitting companion to him, who shared
his pursuits and heartily seconded the
welcome he gave to everyone ; and two
daughters, about my own age. These maybe
termed the nucleus, the standing congregation
of the establishment. In addition,
there were sons who turned up unexpectedly
and at intervals ; and two or three cousins
were invariably sojourning there. Add to
these, again, the floating population in
the shape of visitors who came and went,
and you will realize that it was a merry
house.

Breakfast was just over ; we had been
longer about it than usual, the weather being
too damp and drizzly to tempt us out of
doors. Letters were being read with the
last cup of tea. The Squire selected one
from his pile, and tossed it over to his wife,
remarking that she would be glad to hear the
good news it contained. Then it went from
hand to hand until I had the pleasure of
reading :

^ My dear Squire, —

I have just written the delightful
word Finis at the bottom of a page, which is
the last of my last immortal (!) production. I
will do no more work for weeks, but will take
the train tomorrow and come to Blaize House,
in time, I hope, for dinner. I do not apologize
for this short notice, knowing there Is
even more joy within your gates over the uninvited
than the Invited guest.

Yours always,

Vincent Hope.*

Vincent Hope ! It must be my enemy.
The allusion to his literary pursuits put that
beyond a doubt. My time had come ! I
could not have selected a fairer field on which
to mete out the vengeance I had stored up.
As I read that letter, I positively blushed
with pleasure, so vividly that I feared people
might jump at entirely wrong conclusions.
I thought of nothing all day but the way in
which my enemy was delivered into my
hands. The delight of having at last the
chance of paying out the critic for his criticism
produced a frame of mind which seemed

to urge me to go into quiet corners and
laugh at my own thoughts. I had plenty of
time to mature my plans and draw soothing
pictures of the effects of my revenge. I resolved
to risk no chance meeting with the
foe ; and feeling that a good beginning would
be half the battle, before six o'clock I went to
my room to arm for the fray.

Remember, I am confessing, not jesting.
I sent for my maid, and bade her take down
my hair and brush it. If, as her deft fingers
braided my locks to my satisfaction, I had
thought the girl would have comprehended
me, I might have quoted certain lines of Mrs.
Browning's which kept singing through my
head :

Comb it smooth, and crown it fair ;
I would look in purple pall, from the lattice down the

wall.
And throw scorn on one that's there.'

Anyway, she crowned it fair enough, and, by
my express desire, clad me in my most becoming
gear. Then, a few minutes before
the bell rang, I sent her away, and stood
alone before the cheval glass surveying myself

with a contented smile. For my plan of
revenge had at least the merit of simplicity ;
it was to win that man's admiration — if possible
his love. Upon the day when he offered
me the latter, and I coldly and scornfully rejected
it, I should feel that I had squared all
accounts between us in a manner highly satisfactory
to myself.

How do women win men's love ? I did
not quite know ; but I fancied, if conducted
properly, the operation was not of a difficult
nature. I hoped and believed I should succeed.
Although my resolution reads badly,
and sounds even worse, I comforted myself
by thinking that as I meant to refuse what I
laid myself out to win, no one would dare to
censure me or accuse me of very unbecoming
conduct. And now what are my weapons
with which to conquer ?

I look at myself in the glass. It may read
like vanity, but I feel that old Mr. Ramsay's
prediction is fairly verified. Although I
blush as I appraise myself, I know I am
no longer the slim schoolgirl — but that I am
something not, perhaps, far off a beautiful
woman. I am tall. My figure is certainly

good. My complexion will bear any test ;
and something tells me I could, if I wished,
make my eyes dangerous. So much for
nature. As for art, I have chosen the
prettiest of many pretty gowns, and my
gowns now have a knack of sitting well upon
me ; so I am not ashamed to walk gracefully
across the room, and, curtsying to myself
in the glass, say approvingly to my double :
Yes, Heritage Rivers, you have grown into
a very decent sort of a woman — a very decent
sort !' Having refreshed my memory by the
repetition of that peculiarly galling phrase, I
gather up my skirts and sally forth to victory.


Fortune favoured me. As the greatest
stranger and last arrival, it would have been
in Vincent Hope's province to take our
hostess into the dining-room, had we not
been favoured that day by the presence of a
county magnate, whose claim to precedence
could not be lightly overlooked. It seemed
but natural and part of the plot that the
Squire should present Mr. Vincent Hope to
Miss Rivers, and for the second time in their
lives these two should be seated side by side

sipping their soup in unison — but this time, if
wounded vanity was to be the result of the
contiguity, Miss Rivers would not be the
victim.

So I began :

You have come straight from town, Mr.
Vincent — I fancied the Squire said ? We
all call him Squire, you know.*

Oh yes. He is an old friend of mine.
But he called me Vincent Hope, I suspect.'


This gave me what I wanted, an excuse
for looking him full in the face — an act which,
besides being a fitting tribute to his fame,
enabled me to observe how time had treated
him. So I lifted my lashes and looked
straight at him. If time had not been quite
idle with him, it had treated him kindly. He
was handsome as ever. The hair near his
temples being just flecked with gray did not
detract from his good looks. I thought his
features looked more marked, and the whole
expression of his face more confident and
powerful even than of old. He had won
success, and, no doubt, fully realized and
enjoyed the fact.

Vincent Hope !' I echoed. * Not the Vincent
Hope ?'

I guessed instinctively that flattery was
not a bad gun with which to open fire. By
this time his name was so well known that
it would have been affectation to appear
to misunderstand me. He bowed and
smiled.

How delightful !' I exclaimed, my look, I
am ashamed to say, confirming my words.
Now, tell me how I should talk to you.
Ought I to give you my opinion about all
the characters in your books ; or ought I to
sit silent and awed, treasuring up every word
of wit and wisdom you may let fall ?'

Neither, I must beg. I have just thrown
off the harness, and come down to enjoy the
Squire's clover. I am trying to forget there
is such a thing as work in the world.'

Very well. I shall take you at your
word, after, as in duty bound, saying I have
read all you have written, so far as I
know.'

His wish to avoid the topic of his own
achievements may have been a genuine one,
but, nevertheless, he seemed pleased with

my remark, and looking at me with a smile,
said :

Exchange is but fair. I scarcely heard
what the Squire called you.'

Rivers — Heritage Rivers.'

Heritage Rivers,' he echoed musingly.
It is an uncommon name ; but I fancy I
have heard it before.'

Oh, please don't say so, Mr. Hope. I
did think I had one original thing to boast
of — my name. How would you like, after
looking upon all your plots as original, to find
them but plagiarisms ?'

He laughed.

Many are, I fear. But you are trespassing
on forbidden ground. Let us seek fresh
pastures.'

We did so. We talked all dinner-time. I
think we talked about everything under the
sun — talked, moreover, almost like old
friends. When he differed from my opinions,
he told me in well-chosen words why he
differed. And as he spoke, I whispered ever
and anon to myself : ' Raw and awkward — a
decent sort of a woman.' Yet, now, Mr.
Hope was condescending enough not only to

listen attentively to my words, but to reply
to them as if they had weight with him. All
this was very delightful. The first steps
to revenge were smooth and pleasant ones ;
for there is no need to say that I hated him
as much, and felt as vindictive, as ever.

He was walking straight to his fate. I felt
it when, just before Mrs. Lighton gave the
signal for departure, he dropped his voice
almost to a whisper, and was good enough
to say that, to him, the peculiar charm of this
particular dinner was that such an agreeable
interchange of ideas would not be ended
with the night, but might be resumed tomorrow.
Coming as it did from such a
famous person, I could only glance my
thanks, blush, and look pleased at the compliment.


When, with the rest of my sex, I rose and
walked to the door, I knew that his eyes
were following me ; and I knew also that,
although clever, captious, critical those eyes
might be, they could find little fault with my
bearing or general demeanour.

At Blaize House it was understood that
the gentlemen, especially the younger ones,

were not allowed to linger long over the
wine. When they entered the drawing-room,
I was sitting, almost hidden from sight, in a
recess near the window. I noticed that Mr.
Hope, as he came through the door, looked
round, as if in search of some one ; and as,
when at last he discovered my retreat, his
search seemed at an end, I could only think
the some one was myself. However, we had
little more to say to each other this evening.
All the children of the house were his friends,
and had many questions to ask him. We
had music and singing as usual ; but I made
some conventional excuse, and did not take
my share in them. Before we parted for the
night Vincent Hope came to my side.

Surely you sing. Miss Rivers ?' he said.

A little. But I'm not in the mood to sing
to-night.'

He pressed me to make the attempt, but I
refused. Thinking I had done quite enough
for the first evening, I kept my voice in
reserve. But I talked to him for a short
time about music, and found him well versed
in the art, and, of course, an unsparing critic.
He was very hard on the ordinary drawing-room

playing and singing, and by no means
complimentary to the performers of the evening.
I laughed, and told him how thankful I
felt that something had warned me not to
show my poor skill to such an able but severe
judge. My words led him to believe that
my talent for music was a very third-rate
one. This was exactly what I wished him to
think.

He was soon drawn away from my side,
and we spoke no more until the general goodnight
took place, and the men went off to
the billiard-room, and my own sex to their
couches. Once more I courtesies to Miss
Rivers in the cheval-glass, and told her she
had surpassed my most sanguine expectations.
Then, in a very happy frame of mind,
I went to bed.

Chapter III.

Very promising, too, were the events of the
next day. I felt that the man I hated was
paying me attention above my fellows. Of
course, it was not marked enough to attract
VOL. II. 23

notice, but attention it was, undoubtedly.
He walked with me, and told me, among
other things, a great deal about his early life
and struggles for success. He was quite
interesting, so much so, that I wished I
could check these confidences. I feared that
his talk might awaken a suspicion of sympathy
in my mind, which would grievously
interfere with my vendetta.

That evening, he repeated his request that
I would sing ; but after the way in which I
had misled him, I knew he only urged me
for the sake of politeness. I began with one
of those little ballads which he so much disliked
; an easy, simple little thing, which
could only be borne out of the commonplace
by feeling on the part of the singer. I glanced
at him as I finished the song. He thanked
me quietly, but I saw he looked puzzled.
Then I placed Beethoven's * Adelaide' before
me, and sang it as I had seldom or never
before sang it — entirely to my own satisfaction.
I rose from the piano, and our eyes
met. He did not join in the chorus of
thanks ; but I knew he was more than
moved ; and as he followed me to my chair,

I exulted, as I thought that the pet weapon
in my armoury had struck well home.

Miss Rivers,' he said, ' I thought no
amateur in England could sing that song to
her own accompaniment as you sing it. I
can only congratulate you, whilst blaming
you for deceiving me so, last night.'

I thanked him for his compliment ; and
for the rest of the evening Mr. Hope talked
little except to me.

There ! — I will write no more about it.
Now, I am utterly ashamed of it all. Had
it not been for my resolve to reject it when
offered, I would have stooped to win no
man's love — not even Vincent Hope's. Butin
five days I knew that my work was done,
and fully done — so fully, that I dreaded the
result of it, and began to wish I had not
been so vindictive. Worse than all, friends
as friends will — were exchanging knowing
glances, and commenting on the relations
which appeared to exist between my foe and
myself.

Could I have conquered my nature,
and decided to forego my revenge, it was
now impossible to do so. For my own sake,

23—2

matters must come to a climax, that all might
see how little I cared for the man.

One night, as I sat In my dressing-gown
over the fire, trying to make up my mind to
tear myself from the pleasant glow and get
into bed, Mabel Lighten entered my room.
She was a good true girl, who spoke her
mind freely, and at times lectured even me.

Heritage,' she said abruptly, ' what do
you mean to do with Vincent Hope ?'

I could not for the life of me help changing
colour, and was compelled to shield the cheek
nearest Mabel with the fan which had been
protecting my eyes from the firelight.

Do with him ! I don't know what you
mean.'

Yes, you do,' retorted my mentor. ' Had
it been any one but you. Heritage, I should
have called her a flirt. But you are not a
flirt, we know.'

What have I done, Mabel ?' I asked.
The screen was still between us.

Mabel quietly pushed It aside; then, placing
her hands on my shoulders, scrutinized my
face in a most uncomfortable manner.

You have done this, and who can wonder

at it ? You have gained that man's love
entirely. But, although it seems so unlike
you, I believe you have brought him to your
feet for vanity's sake. Heritage, he is a
good man — a proud man. If you mean to
give him nothing in return, I should say his
life will be wrecked. Do you love him, or
are my fears well founded ?'

In some fashion, I was bound to reply.
I sought refuge in levity.

When I am moved to confess my sins,
Mabel, it will not be to you, but to some nice
ascetic High-church curate.'

Don't talk nonsense. I am in bitter
earnest. Vincent Hope will surely ask you
to be his wife. You are rich, and he is comparatively
poor ; but I know that will not
influence you. Only I say again, if you
refuse, you are to blame for all that happens.'

This must be stopped at any cost. Until
now, I had always believed that hysterics
and affectation were synonymous.

Mabel,' I said, ' I hate Vincent Hope ;
but at this moment I think I hate you even
more ! Go to bed. I am too tired to say
another word ; so go away.'

Therewith, I got into bed, turned my
face to the wall, and left Mabel to put out
my candle and get back to her own quarters
when she thought fit.

I was annoyed and ashamed. She had
nearly accused me of what I had in truth
been guilty of — making love to my enemy.
As people noticed my conduct, it became
more and more necessary that I should clear
myself from all such imputations. This
could be done in one way only.

Perhaps I had the grace to avoid Vincent
Hope somewhat during the next two days.
Perhaps that very avoidance hastened the
catastrophe. But on the third day, chance —
pure chance, mind — left us together and alone.
For a moment there was silence between us ;
then he drew near to me, and said in a quiet
earnest voice :

Heritage, I love you. Will you be my
wife ?'

I could not answer. All I could do was
to prevent myself breaking into hysterical
laughter.

He tried to take my hand.

Heritage, my darling ! I think I loved

you the moment I saw you. Look up, and
answer me. Say you love me, and will be
my wife !'

His wife ! After hating him for so long —
after Mabel's reproaches — after winning his
love in a way the thought of which made me
blush ! Never, never, never !

So I steeled myself — drew myself up to
every inch of my height — looked him full in
the face — triumphed, and took my revenge.
I hope and think I spoke composedly, if not
coldly.

Mr. Hope, you honour me greatly, but it
cannot be. Please never mention it again.'

His face was very pale ; and when an
expression of positive pain left it, grew stern,
almost hard. My manner must have convinced
him I was in earnest. No doubt, had
I wished to do so, I could have made him fall
at my feet and plead passionately. But then,
unless one is an utter savage, vindictiveness
must be limited. I had done enough.

Perhaps, under such trying circumstances,
no man could have behaved in a more dignified
manner than did Mr. Hope.

I am to understand,' he said calmly, but

with a look in his eyes which I dared not
meet — -^ I am to understand you — you do not
love me ?'

I bowed.

Please let me hear you say so he said.

I do not. Let us say no more about it. I
think I will go back to the house now,'

We walked in silence until we were close
to the gates. Then he said :

Unless my presumption to-day makes my
presence unbearable to you, I shall stay two
days longer, as I promised Mr. Lighton. It
is not worth while to set people inquiring as
to the reason for a hasty departure.'

Certainly not,' I answered. ' Stay as long
as you wish ; or, if you prefer it, I will
leave.'

That is out of the question,' he replied,
as we crossed the threshold and parted.

I went to my room — to exult, of course, in
my revenge. It was so full, so complete, so
exactly as I planned it. And writers and
poets say that revenge is sweet. Oh yes, it
was very, very sweet— so sweet, that I double-locked
the door, that no one might see how
much I enjoyed it — so sweet, that I threw

myself on my bed, and thought my heart
must break as I sobbed and wept ; for the
truth must be told — I loved Vincent Hope
even as he said, and as I hoped he loved me.
Yet, for the sake of vanity, I had to-day
rejected the love of a man, the best, the
noblest, the cleverest in the world ! I had
hurled my hoarded stone, and right well it
had fulfilled its mission ; but its rebound had
crushed me. Oh yes, revenge is very sweet !
I rose, and walking up to the Heritage
Rivers in the cheval-glass, shook my fist at
her violently. ' You fool !' I said to her. ^ A
nice mess you have made of life ! Revenge,
indeed ! Call it by its right name — folly ! Go
and clothe yourself in sackcloth — cover your
head with ashes, and cry your eyes out for
to-day's work.' Then Mabel's words about
a wrecked life came to my mind ; and
although I could not believe that the happiness
of such a man as Vincent Hope could
be dependent upon an idiot like myself, I
thought of that strange look I had seen in
his eyes — that look which no resolution of
mine could make me meet. So I went back
to bed once more, and cried and abused

myself. Ay, revenge, forsooth, revenge is
sweet !

In spite of all, I determined to go down to
dinner. I would do that much for his sake.
It should not be suspected that anything had
gone wrong between us ; and I knew that, if
I stayed away, Mabel, for one, would certainly
guess what had occurred. This, if I
could prevent it, should be known to no one.
I smiled grimly as I thought how my revenge
must fail in this ; that the world would never
know what I had scorned and refused. I
made a great effort, dabbed my eyes with
rose-water, and went downstairs in passable
trim.

To-night we were not side-beside, but sat
directly opposite to one another. Mabel was
right — Vincent Hope was a proud man. His
discomfiture was no concern of the world's, so
he showed no traces of it. All save one at
that table would have said that his heart was
gay and light. No one would have dreamed
that, a few hours before, his love had been
refused by an idiot of a girl. He laughed
and jested ; anecdote and witty repartee fell
unceasingly from his lips. He held the whole

talk, or every unit of the party talked to him.
Yet, woman-like, I noticed that he drank
more wine than was his usual custom, and at
times there was a sharper, harder ring in his
voice. Had it not been for this, and the
remembrance of the look which still haunted
me, I could have believed he had forgotten
or brushed away from his mind the events of
the day. Vincent Hope was a proud man,
and Heritage Rivers a fool !

I would rather say nothing about the next
two days. I hated myself so much, that I
wonder I have ever forgiven myself — perhaps
I never have. All I care to say is, that none
even suspected what had happened ; even
Mabel began to think that the accusation of
flirting should lie at Vincent Hope's door, not
at mine ; for although he talked to me when
needful, it was easy to see that his manner
was changed.

The morning of the third day came, and I
knew that In a few hours we should shake
hands, part, and there would be the end of
everything.

Blaize Is fifteen miles from a railway-station,
and that station is so unimportant

that very few trains stop at it. Vincent Hope
to reach town that evening, was obliged to
start betimes. Soon after luncheon, Charlie
Lighton and the dogcart were waiting to take
him to the train ; and after many expressions
of regret from host and hostess, he took his
seat and was ready to start. Of course, our
hands met, as, in common with everyone else,,
he bade me adieu — a quiet, polite adieu
nothing more — not even coupled with the
conventional wish that we might meet again.
Why should he wish to meet me again ? Our
encounters as yet had not been happy in
their results to either ! That accomplished
whip, Charlie, gathered up the reins, and
with a last, all-embracing good-bye, Vincent
Hope was sped away along the winding
carriage-drive, and, for the first time in her
foolish life. Heritage Rivers knew that such
things as broken hearts may be found outside
romances.

Something was afoot that afternoon —
walking party or skating party ; for it was
the middle of January, and bitterly cold.
Now that the necessity of keeping up appearances
for another's sake was at an end

Miss Rivers felt very much like breaking
down and disgracing herself. She longed
for solitude, and made some excuse to stay
at home. As everyone wsls bound on the
expedition, she had the house practically to
herself. After bemoaning her wickedness
and folly for some time in the sanctity of her
own chamber, a strange craving came over
her. She felt she must go down and sit in
the little room which adjoins the library ; and,
although censuring her own weakness, she
yielded to the impulse.

Vincent Hope, in spite of his resolve to
spend his time at Blaize House in well-earned
idleness, had been unable to do so
exactly. Ominous rolls of printed matter
came by post — a sin of long standing, he
said, which publishers insisted on dragging
into daylight at once. So he did one or two
hours' work each day, and grumbled at it in a
very amusing manner. By tacit consent, the
little room had been kept sacred to him ;
there, when he chose, he worked without fear
of interruption. It was no doubt on account
of this that Miss Rivers felt that uncontrollable
desire to sit for a while in this

particular room. The stupidity of her desire
need not be commented upon, as her generally
idiotic nature must have made itself manifest
many pages back. She entered the room and
closed the door softly. She sat down at the
leather-covered table, and leaning her head on
her hands, looked anything but a prosperous,
healthy, comfortable young woman.

Presently she glanced stealthily around her,
and from the bosom of her dress drew out a
photograph of a very handsome, destine
man. Mr. Hope had given
it to her, at her request, some days before.
It was to go into her celebrity-album, she
told him. Laying it on the table between
her elbows, Miss Rivers gazed at it long and
earnestly, until her foolish eyes became so
misty with tears that she could see it no
longer. One by one those tears began to
fall, and soon came so fast that she gave in
altogether — forgot where she was — forgot all
risk of interruption ; and laying her head on
the table, presented the very picture of woe.

Her bewailing and sweepings were at
their greatest height, when the door was
suddenly thrown open and Mr. Hope stood

before her ! She sprang to her feet, and in
her agitation brushed the photograph to the
ground. Even in her dire confusion, the
prayer that it might have fallen face downwards
framed itself. But she dared not look
to see ; she had to face the intruder as best
she could. Yet he seemed for the moment
taken even more aback than Miss Rivers.
He stammered out something about a shaft
broken three miles from home — impossibility
of catching train — come back to write telegrams,
etc. Then he looked on the ground,
and what he saw there was enough to make
him glance wonderingly at the shamefaced
girl who stood before him with wet lashes
and glowing cheeks.

Miss Rivers — Heritage !' he said, ' tell me
what this means.'

She made no reply, but endeavoured to
pass him. He blocked the way, and by the
exercise of some force, took both her hands
in his. As they stood there, she could see on
the ground between them that unlucky photograph
lying face upwards.

Let me go, Mr. Hope,' she said. ' It is
unkind to keep me against my will.'

Her appeal was vain. His strong hands
held her yet more firmly. He seemed to be
waiting until she chose to look up and meet
his eyes. But that would never have been —
not if they had stood there till the present
moment.

At last he spoke ; his voice was almost
grave :

Heritage, I am very proud. I have always
vowed I would ask no woman twice to be my
wife ; but I will ask you once more if you
love me.'

Miss Rivers only bent her head lower and
lower.

'Answer me, Heritage !' he said, in a
changed, passionate voice. * My darling,
answer me, and this time truthfully !'

It was no use. Had she wished to do so,
she could fight no longer. She ventured to
raise her eyes a lite, and said, so timidly,
so differently from her usual way of speaking
:

Mf I thought you would only forgive
me, I would try and show you what I
cannot, will not tell you — how much I love
you r

She was very, very humble in her newfound
happiness.

Then Vincent Hope loosened her hands a

little, and Well, these things only

happen once in the life of a true woman, and
she should neither write nor speak about
them. But when Charlie Lighton came to
look for the telegram, not even written, nor,
in the proposed form, to be written, Vincent
Hope and Heritage Rivers were wondering,
as every orthodox pair of lovers should
wonder, why they were chosen out to be
made the two very happiest people in the
whole world.

So this was how I worked out m}^
revenge.

It was only after we were married that I
ventured to tell my husband that I had
actually laid myself out to win his love —
and why, when won, I had rejected it. My
confession, which was really seriously made,
being complete, he looked at me with mock
severity.

Heritage,' he said, * had I known this
before, I might, even at the eleventh hour,
have thought better of the step I was taking

VOL. II. 24

in putting my future in the hands of such a
vindictive young woman.'

And perhaps, sweet sir I answered, ' for
the very fear of that, I have deferred my
explanation until now.'

A PSYCHOLOGICAL ROMANCE.

Chapter I.

I HAVE no friends — no ambition ; so the
following strange events are not recorded for
anyone's pleasure, or to win for myself the
reputation of being able to weave a marvellous
tale. I write in the hope alone that
chance may bear in these pages a message to
one with whom I have no means of holding
intercourse, unless it be in a mystical way,
as between spirit and spirit.

My name is Philip Beauvais. My residence,
when I am not roaming over the
world, The Firs, Thornborough — a small
town in the West of England, almost within
sound of the rush of the Severn. My father,
as my name will show, was French. He

24 — 2

left his native country during one of her
periodical troubles, and before order was reasserted
and he was free to return, had won
my mother's heart, married, and, strange to
say, settled down to a quiet English country
life. He was no needy fortune-hunter, being
in possession of good means ; and as my
mother, the last member of an old family,
was an heiress, the death of my parents,
which occurred whilst I was very young, left
me blessed with riches, which, as yet, have
brought me little happiness.

My boyhood was lonely and sad. I was
sensitive, and like all sensitive boys, unpopular
with my kind. My guardian and
trustee was a lawyer in London, in whom
my father and mother had placed implicit
confidence ; and well, from a business point
of view, did he discharge his trust. But he
was a bachelor, and, if not positively disliking
children, understood little about them,
and the need of young hearts for kindly
sympathy. He had no home to which he
could take me, or rather no home in the true
sense of the word, so my boyhood was very
dreary. University life was to me little

better; there I was almost as solitary as I
had been at school. I studied hard, and as
the powers of my mind grew, became a
dreamer of strange dreams — Indeed, lived
almost in a world of my own creation, full of
quaint fancies and poetic ideas. I was
always shy, perhaps constrained, in my
manner ; and although, with manhood opening
before me, I lost the feeling of unhappiness
that clouded my boyish days, it seemed
to me that It was my lot to stand alone in the
world, and, as friendship was understood by
me, call no man my friend.

At last I took my degree and quitted Oxford
without joy or without regret. Fancying
I should like to see the old home once more,
I went down to the West of England.

The Firs, during my minority, had been
let, furnished ; but the tenant having quitted
a few months before, I had resolved it should
not again be occupied by a stranger. Knowing
it possessed a well-stocked library, I
thought I should be as happy In my own
house as elsewhere, so installed myself in the
old country mansion, and began, even at my
early age, the life of a recluse.

It was In January that I took possession,
and the months passed on, yet I stayed.
May came, with all the sweetness of the
season, but it made little change in the
manner of my life. In truth, I was settling
down to a melancholy existence. I lived in
books and dreams alone. Now, as I look
back upon those days, it seems to me that
the only breaks in my seclusion were the long
walks which I was fain to take for the sake
of health. In one of these walks, when,
towards evening, I was returning home, as I
sauntered through the lane, with its green
hedge on either side, I was overtaken by a
fellow-pedestrian. I remember I was holding
the delicate frond of a fern I had plucked :
it seemed to me a rare species, and I intended
carrying it home to identify it. As
I walked, looking at it and marvelling at its
beauty, footsteps sounded beside me, and
the most melodious man's voice I have ever
heard said :

You are fortunate in finding that specimen
in these parts ; I have never met with It sofar
west before.'

I turned as he spoke, and found by my

side a man of about fifty. He was tall and
well-built, dressed in the ordinary attire of an
English gentleman ; but, although his pronunciation
was perfectly correct, something in
the inflections of his voice told me he was of
another clime.

I forgot how he named my fern, but he
evidently knew its genus, and after examining
it closely, returned it to me, and still
continued to walk by my side, giving me an
interesting little descriptive account of the
curious ferns and plants of other lands.
Then he drew me adroitly into conversation,
till we touched on many other topics. On
every subject he seemed equally well informed,
and, without the least suspicion of
pedantry, spoke lucidly and pleasantly, completely
drawing me out of my usual reserve.
By this time I had observed he was strikingly
handsome, and as, after a fashion of my own,
I had studied faces all my life, I said to myself,
as I noted his wide brow and massive
chin, ' This man has great intellect and immense
force of character; he is a giant, and
I am a dwarf beside him. He has, or
should have, lordship over his fellows.' Still

conversing, we reached the main road, and
soon stood before the gate of my house,
when, conquering my natural shyness, I
begged him to enter and look at a rare edition
of a book which we had been discussing a few
minutes previously. He smiled.

I should have called upon you long ago,
Mr. Beauvais,' he said, ' but heard such accounts
of your unsociableness I dared not
venture. It needs a bold man to disturb a
poet, as I hear you are.'

Not a poet I replied ; * a dreamer only.
Sometimes I think, could I but embody those
dreams in verse, they would be poems ; but
there I fail'

Tush r he answered. * The true poem,
the soul of it, is the dream ; the mechanical
verse is but the garb that clothes it, the flesh
that makes the existence of the spirit known to
the outer world.'

With this we entered, and I led him to
my library. He cared little for books as
books ; indeed, he seemed to carry the contents
of every volume I could show him in
his head. Never had it been my fate to
meet a man of such intellect and such eclectic

knowledge, or a man who could use the
wisdom he possessed so aptly in conversation.
He sat near me, and hour after hour entranced
me with his marvellous talk. Each and
every subject seemed alike to him, and my
interest and wonder at his resources grew and
grew, till they culminated when, as the night
wore on, our talk turned on supernatural
subjects and the mystical relation between
body and spirit. Then it seemed to me his
eyes dilated, his intellectual face glowed more
brightly, whilst he spoke as I have never
heard human being speak before or since.
Daring theories, wild speculations, hints at
strange knowledge of his own, scorn at the
ideas held by the generality of men, fell in
rapid succession from his lips, clothed in brilliant,
poetic and original language. He spoke
as one who knew, not as one who suspected ;
he planted his feet firmly where those of the
deepest thinkers tread with timid steps. He
held all the conversation, and the night advanced
as I sat, enthralled, and listened ashe
tore to pieces the assertions of the most
eminent writers of every age and country who
have treated the subject upon which he spoke.

One of his lighter diatribes, I remember,
was in ridicule of the so-called spiritualism of
our day.

Not,' he said, in conclusion, * that its disciples
are without an inkling of the truth.
Take away the absurdity of tables and tambourine,
and the bare fact of a spirit being
summoned by a more powerful spirit-force is
reasonable enough.'

You believe, then, in the power of will ?'
I asked.

I believe in the power of strong will over
weak will, as I believe in the power of
strong body over weak body. If by physical
force I can make a body captive, why by
excess of spirit power should I not enthral
a spirit ? You look incredulous, but I may
perhaps give you a proof. But now, Mr.
Beauvais,' he continued, with a rare smile and
complete change of manner, ' I am sure I
have tired you with my wild talk ; let us turn
to lighter subjects.'

I protested, and truthfully, that my interest
in the present conversation was keen ; but
he only smiled in answer, and adroitly turned
into other intellectual pathways, and then,

leaving them, gradually drew me to talk of my
own affairs.

Recalling the conversation of that evening,
I can see now that he appeared in many
instances to prompt me in what I told him
concerning myself, and that he seemed
already to know much about my usual habits
and manner of life during the last few years.
That life had as yet been uneventful enough,
and having no possible object in concealing
any page in it, shortly he knew as much about
myself as I could tell him. I am not egotistical,
so perhaps he soon noticed that my interest
in the turn the conversation had now
taken flagged, for he rose, and with courtly
politeness bade me good-night, exacting
before he went a promise that I would pay
him a return visit on the morrow. He wrote
his name and address on a card, which he
handed me, saying, ' Your servants will tell
you where to find my house ; I shall expect
you tomorrow evening, and we can then resume
our conversation.'

And you can give me the proof you
promised of the power of will, or spirit, as
you term it ?'

Nay, I can do that now. See, it is just
twelve o'clock. At one o'clock you may
retire to rest, not before.'

As he spoke, he fixed his deep, lustrous
eyes on mine. It seemed to me his glance
only rested on me for a second ; but I saw
the courteous smile fade from his face, which
became calm and stern. I suffered no inconvenience
; I did not even, I believe, lose
consciousness, for I remember I fancied I
heard him close the door as he left the room,
and then, in a second, as it seemed, I turned
in my chair and the clock on the mantelpiece
struck one.

A trick, I thought, and hastily drew my
watch from my pocket — it recorded the same
time; and then, greatly puzzled at the occurrence,
and full of curiosity as to my mysterious
acquaintance, I retired to rest. I should add
that the card he gave me remained between
my fingers, and bore these words : ' Pedro
Cardenas, The Hermitage.'

The next morning I asked my housekeeper
whether she knew the gentleman
who had been my guest the night before,
and learnt from her that his house was about

three miles away, and that he led a life of
the strictest seclusion. He was reputed to
be very rich, but little or nothing was known
for or against him. He had lived at the
Hermitage about five years, and kept one
servant only, a man who village gossip said
was a Frenchman. Two gardeners went
twice or three times a week to keep the large
grounds which surrounded the house in order,
but they had never been inside the house itself.

In fact, from her report, I gathered that a
little mystery hung over the place and its
inhabitants ; so after the perplexing event of
the night, I needed no further incentive to
make me direct my steps to The Hermitage
as promised.

I had little difficulty in finding the house ;
indeed, although I had not specially noticed
it, I had often passed it upon my solitary
rambles. It stood back some distance from
the road, entirely hidden from view by a
high wall which encircled house and gardens.
A large iron gate — firmly locked, I found — •
closed the entrance to the drive. I rang the
bell, and the gate was speedily opened by a
sedately dressed man — a foreigner evidently.

I must have been expected, as he at once
led the way along the winding drive to the
house, which, to my surprise, looking at the
extent of the gardens around it, was comparatively
small. It appeared simply a
comfortable residence, without any pretension
to elegance or to modern improvements.

My guide conducted me to a small, well-furnished
room, and in broken English
begged me to be seated.

In a few minutes Cardenas appeared, and
as he greeted me cordially and inquired after
my health, hoping he had not trespassed too
much upon my time the evening before, I
fancied his features bore a faint smile of
good-natured mockery.

Have you dined, Mr. Beauvais ?' he
asked ; and upon my replying in the affirmative,
suggested a walk round the gardens
before it grew dark.

His gardens were beautiful ; smooth expanses
of lawn running up to groves of fine
old trees, and here and there, beds whose
foliage told of the glowing beauty they would
bear in a few weeks' time. I expressed my
admiration, adding :

^ You take a great interest in horticulture
?'

He shrugged his shoulders.

Not at all, but I have an object in keeping
a good garden. You shall know it some
day; but not yet.'

Our tour finished, we returned to the
house, and the evening, like the night
before, flew all too rapidly as I listened to
his conversation. And as I sat and saw his
wonderfully expressive face, that seemed to
change with every subject he touched, as the
theme was gay, grave, or abstruse, I felt that
this man was exercising a strange influence
over me — an influence that increased every
hour. Naturally, I asked him about the
trance, or whatever it was, into which I had
fallen at his command. He smiled, and said :
That is nothing ; I will show you more
wonders than that, some day. That is,' he
added, as though speaking to himself, 'should
I find you worthy.' Several other enigmatical
sayings like the above, whether dropt intentionally
or by chance I know not, served to
raise my new-born curiosity to the highest
pitch, and to make me resolve to fathom

what mystery he was hinting at. However,
for the present, I could guess or learn
nothing.

My visit that evening was the commencement
of an intercourse almost daily. Evening
after evening I sought The Hermitage. The
cordial welcome that Cardenas always gave
me banished all my shyness and fear of intruding.
I spent in his society hours of
happiness, of which as yet I had only
dreamed. Encouraged by his sympathy,
drawn on by his approval, I poured out my
heart to him ; I told him my wildest dreams,
confided to him my most secret aspirations,
feeling I had at last found the friend for
whom I had sighed so long. In short, he
was my instructor, my counsellor, my all but
father. I cannot say our confidence was
reciprocal. He told me little or nothing concerning
himself; and upon my asking him
once some question as to his early life, and
how he had obtained his wonderful accumulation
of wisdom, he replied : ' Some day —
soon, it may be — you shall know all, but the
time is scarcely come yet.' By now I was
convinced that this wonderful man had some

Strange revelation to make when he might
think proper, but its nature, when that hour
came, surpassed all my expectations.

We sat one evening in the room we
generally occupied ; the window was open,
and the summer night crept on slowly. The
sky was cloudless, and above us shone the
stars. We talked, or rather conversed, but
little. Cardenas seemed in a strange mood,
and as he looked upwards at the heavens,
was whispering words in some language unintelligible
to me — I fancied it was Arabic.
Light rain had fallen during the evening,
and the sweet scent of the freshened earth
came through the open window. The night
was, indeed, so beautiful, that I was quite
content to sit and enjoy it in silence ; but
my placid reverie was at length broken by
my companion, who thrilled me by saying, in
*deep impressive tones :

Philip Beauvais, the hour has now come
when I choose to tell you why I sought you,
why I have made you my friend and companion
— I, who have spoken to few men for
many years.'

VOL. n. 25

I listened attentively, and could see his
deep, dark eyes shining in the starlight.

To-night,' he continued, * at my bidding
a new life opens to you. Moreover, to-night
you shall see the one who Is destined to
share It with you — the being who shall hold
the love of your body through this life, and
the love of your spirit for ever.'

My surprise at this mysterious communication
kept me from speaking ; but the thought
flashed through my brain, ' This man, after
all. Is but a charlatan, and will probably produce
a magic crystal or some such device ;'
but before I could speak, he rang a bell that
summoned his servant.

Juan entered, bearing a lamp that threw a
soft light. Having placed It on the table, he
departed in his usual sedate and noiseless
manner.

My companion then pressed a button in
the wall, and I could hear a bell ringing at a
distance. As he removed his hand, he laid
it on my arm.

Walt!' he said, almost sternly ; ' wait, and
say nothing until you behold what I now
would show you.'

He appeared to be labouring under
some unusual excitement; his manner and
voice seemed changed : so it was with the
interest feeing of curiosity I fixed my eyes
on the door, and kept silence as commanded.
The door opened, and a maiden more
beautiful than ever poet dreamed, than ever
artist painted, entered. Yea, as she stood
there in her loveliness, my heart leapt forth
to meet her, and I knew that unless I could
win her love, life for me would be but weariness
and sorrow. She had crossed the
threshold with a light, quick step, as though
hastening to rejoin one she loved ; but, becoming
aware of my presence, halted with
downcast eyes and clasped hands.

I stood spell-bound, gazing at her face and
marvelling at its beauty, until Cardenas advanced,
and, taking her by the hand, led her
towards me.

Astrsea, my daughter,' he said, * know
him and speak to him, even as you would tome.'


She raised her eyes to mine, and her eyes
shone as the stars above. Her hand rested
in mine for a second ; and then, seating 



self by her father, she murmured some words,
a question apparently, in the same strange
tongue previously used by him, and which
from her lips sounded yet softer and sweeter.

By this time I had regained possession of
my senses, and could observe her more
closely. What particularly struck me was
the unearthliness of her beauty — the radiancy
of it. Fair as she was, it was yet the
spiritual character of her loveliness that raised
her charms so far above other women's as
the heavens are above the earth. Her dress
was composed of some rich material, strangely
made, but showing the shape of the perfect
figure it covered. Rare jewels shone upon
her hands, arms, and neck, and from her hair
blazed a diamond star. She was young —
certainly not more than nineteen years of age.

We spoke little during that interview. In
truth, I was so perturbed at the strangeness
of our meeting, so bewildered at the words
her father had spoken before she appeared,
that I was like one in a dream. I made a
few remarks, which she answered in well-chosen
words, but was content for the greater
part of the time to sit still and gaze upon her.

as she sat on a low ottoman by her father,
with her graceful head resting on his arm and
her fingers caressing his. In little more than
half-an-hour's time, probably in obedience to
some intimation Cardenas gave her, she rose
and bade us good-night. Her hand again
lay in mine, and as she had conveyed to my
excited heart a wild sort of idea that she was
a being from another sphere, I felt a positive
relief when I found my fingers close round
warm flesh and blood. Gracefully as she
had entered, she left us ; and as the door
closed upon her I turned to Cardenas and
exclaimed, ' Oh, my father, give me but her
love, and I will be your slave for ever ! She
is more than mortal.'

She zs more than mortal,' replied Cardenas,
in his deep tones. ' Listen, and I will
tell you the history of her birth.'

So speaking, he extinguished the lamp, and
in the starlight he told me ; and as he unfolded
the marvellous narrative, his voice,
ever melodious, seemed to shape itself into a
song, and as I listened I knew, be it truth or
falsehood, he for one believed every word of
the tale he told.

Years ago, Philip Beauvais, I stood
among the mountains of Spain, my native
land. Night after night I gazed alone at the
stars. I watched them from their first faint
gleam at eve till their last faint gleam at
morn. Not as an astronomer, seeking to win
a little fame by foretelling the advent of a
new comet ; not to bring some distant speck
of light, hitherto unnoticed, into the family of
the planets. No : I, who by that time had
proved that my spirit — my will — was stronger
than any mortal's, said, as I watched, " Amid
that shining space there are myriads of spirits,
free or erhbodled, and among those myriads
there may be one whose power is not equal
to mine ; as I have swayed the spirits of men,
so may I perchance influence one spirit in
the outer space and draw it unto me." The
thought may have been the thought of a
madman, but nevertheless It took full possession
of me, and day and night I concentrated
every faculty of my mind to compass this one
desire. I said, in answer to all objections my
sober reason raised, *' As there are weak
minds with mankind, so may there be weak
spirits in space, whose powers, although far

above the average of mankind, may be below
my own, and one of these I may command."
So I waited and watched, until one night,
when having sent my will forth in such a
sustained effort that I had well nigh fainted,
a thought spoke to my thought and said, " I
am here ! what wouldst thou have with me ?"
I knew I had conquered, and that one of the
spirits of the stars was at my command.
Then, in thought, I said, *' Come unto me in
earthly shape, take the garb of mankind, and
we will be ever together." And I knew that
the spirit said, '' I obey !" and left me for the
time.

Two nights afterwards there came to meas
I sat alone in my room, a beautiful
woman, dressed after the manner of the
peasants of Spain. She stood before me,
crossed her hands upon her breast, and said,
'' Master, I am come." And I said to her,
You will be mine and abide with me forever,
and teach me many things." Then the
woman wreathed her arms around me and
said, '' Not for long, O love, but until this
earthly frame is fretted away by the spirit it
imprisons. Till then I am thine." And she

lived with me and taught me things that nomen
know, or even hope to know ; things
that were I to give them to the world tomorrow
would consign me to a madhouse.
So different is the truth from the
theory.

Not for long did she stay with me ; but
ere she died, or departed — call it which you
will — she bore me a daughter, and then I
knew I had not summoned her from her
spirit-home in vain, and that the birth of
that daughter was an era in the history of
the world. I said, '' I will guard this child
as the apple of my eye. I will rear her in
utter seclusion, as she will need no companions
save the divine thoughts which her
origin will doubtless give her ; and when the
time comes I will seek a man worthy, so far
as human being can be, to mate with her.
Pure he must be and spotless, free from
worldly taint, and clear of crime or bloodshed.
A poet, it may be, with lofty thoughts
and inspirations ; and this man shall wed the
Daughter of the Stars, and their offspring
shall be the salt of the earth that shall
leaven the whole. They shall be the poets,

the musicians, the thinkers, the statesmen —
nay, even the warriors of the earth, till war
shall cease to be. In time a new race shall
replace the old, and the regeneration of the
world be accomplished !"

I have lived in many countries, and am
far above the weakness of patriotism.
History has told me that the trump that
calls for progress and improvement in the
order of things sounds first and loudest in
England ; therefore, as the maiden grew
older, I brought her here. Something I
knew of you before we met, and now,
knowing you as I do, I say to you to-night,
Philip Beauvais, you are the man I have
chosen for the great work ; and, moreover,
for your own happiness." '

As his voice, which in uttering the last
sentence seemed like the voice of one
inspired, sank into silence, he rested his
head upon his arm, and again fixed his gaze
on the stars above.

For a moment I said nothing ; and then,
as the first of many eager questions trembled
upon my lips, he broke into a sort of invocation,
using the soft unknown tongue I

have mentioned before. Then, turning tome
:

'Depart now,' he said; 'ask nothing tonight.
You have heard what mortal never
heard. Depart, and be with me again
tomorrow.'

I obeyed, and left him ; not to seek my
home, but to wander miles and miles under
the clear stars, turning the marvellous tale
over and over in my mind. Strange as it
may appear, I had little doubt as to its
truth. I had always a dim kind of belief in
the supernatural. Cardenas, to me, was a
man gifted strangely beyond his fellows.
I had myself experienced, both directly and
indirectly, the power of his will, so that, in
the present state of my mind, it scarcely
needed the remembrance of the radiant,
unearthly beauty of the maiden I had seen
to induce me to accept his narrative as true.
The only doubts that harassed me were
whether I was worthy of the high destiny
for which Cardenas had chosen me, and
whether I could win Astraea's love.

Weary at last with walking and thinking,
I reached home, and, as the summer sun

gathered heat, threw myself on my bed and
fell into a profound sleep.

I need not say that few hours elapsed,
after my waking, ere I again sought The
Hermitage. Juan showed me into the room,
where, to my delight and surprise, I found
Astraea sitting alone. She greeted me without
embarrassment ; I almost dared to think
even with pleasure. Daylight made her if
anything more beautiful. She wore no ornaments
now, save the single diamond star,
which to-day beamed with a peculiar significance
in my eyes.

My father is engaged at present,* she said,
^ and has bade me entertain you : let us go
through the gardens.'

With a beating heart I followed as she led
the way, and that sweet afternoon will ever
linger in my memory. We wandered beneath
the grand old trees, we gathered the glowing
roses, we chased, like children, the butterflies
from flower to flower. We talked, and the
pure fancies she clothed in words were rich
with grace and inspiration. The poetry of
her simple nature would perforce have made
the most prosaic listener feel for once as

poets feel. Judge, then, the effect her words
and her beauty had on me. Then she led
me to her room and sang strange songs tome.
Such music was never heard on earth ;
her fingers wandered over the keys, improvising
as they went melodies fit for
angelic choirs. The hours flew by, till, as
the twilight gathered, I left her reluctantly,
and more convinced than ever of the truth of
the tale I had heard the night before.

And so I saw her day after day ; and each
time she seemed more sweet, more radiant
than the last. And then, how I know not, I
learnt that my love was returned, and in
burning words avowed the passion I felt.
Hand in hand we stood before her father,
whilst, with a look of supreme joy in his
dark eyes, he blessed us. Since the night I
first met my beloved he had told me nothing
more of her history, and I, knowing how
deeply the recital had moved him, forbore
to question him. Perhaps he saw clearly
that matters were going exactly as he wished,
and that I needed no incentive save Astraea's
supreme beauty and innocence to make me
urge my suit when I saw a hope of success.

Now that her Hps as well as her clear and
truthful eyes confessed the love she bore me,
I begged Cardenas to permit us to be united
without delay.

My son he said, ' remember, you wed
not only for your own happiness, but for the
good of the world. I have much to teach
you yet — much that is good and noble. You
must wait a year at least, and during that
time be my pupil.'

I cannot,' I cried. * A year is an age —
who knows what things may happen in the
time ! She may find how unworthy I am of
her. One of us may die, and we may be
severed for ever.'

And then, as I never prayed man before,
I besought him to grant my request. He
was for some time inexorable, but said at
last, in reply to my entreaties :

I will do this for you. To-day I will
wed you in spirit, a bond that is stronger
than any earthly marriage or tie that man
can make.'

That night he called us to him, and led us
to a chamber which I had never entered
before. It was situated at the top of the

house, a portion of the roof of which had
been removed and replaced by a sheet of
glass, through which I could see the stars
shining as brightly as though nothing intervened.
The walls of the room were hung
with a material like old tapestry : this completely
covered the walls and even the door
as Cardenas parted the hangings like
curtains to allow us to enter. At one end
was a small structure draped with white
velvet, which I knew, at once, was intended
for a kind of altar. Opposite was a divan or
couch covered with rich silk. With the
exception of a bracket projecting from the
wall and bearing a lamp, these were the
only objects I noticed in the room. There
was none of the machinery usually appertaining
to magicians and wonder-workers. He
motioned Astraea to the couch, and seated me
on the ground beside her. My head leant
against her arm, and our fingers were interlaced.
The maiden evinced no fear, but my
heart, I am not ashamed to say, beat audibly.
Cardenas then extinguished the light, and
placed another lamp, or chafing-dish, upon
the altar. This was of curious shape, and

threw only enough light to make the outlines
of objects visible. As I lay, intensely
excited, with my hand clasped in Astraea's, I
saw him sprinkle something on the flame.
This, whatever it was, made little difference
in its brilliancy, but soon a sweet odour
gradually permeated the air, and whilst I
was trying to remember whether it was the
scent of anything I knew or not, Cardenas
turned and fixed his eyes upon us with the
same calm, stern glance which had so
strangely affected me on the night when we
first met. Remember, in this narrative I
endeavour to explain nothing, I risk no
speculations, I hazard no theories ; I am
content simply to record such events as happened.
As Cardenas cast his eyes upon us,
I felt the maiden's fingers close with a soft
pressure round mine ; I seemed to be sinking
into delicious sleep ; nay, I can even
remember closing my eyes, when, suddenly,
all grew radiant around me, and I knew, as if
by inspiration, that my spirit and my thoughts
mingled with another's spirit and another's
thoughts. Words fail in giving an idea of
this blended existence. It seemed that we

were near the altar, yet had the power of
seeing the whole room in one glance, whereas
I live, I could gaze upon our bodily forms
lying as Cardenas had placed them, and
wrapped in the deepest and most placid
sleep. I heard marvellous strains of music ;
I heard mighty words of song meet for those
harmonies ; I saw the heavens above teeming
with brilliant stars — stars as yet undreamt of
and it seemed that above the music and
song a deep voice said, ' For ever and forever.'


How long this spirit-consciousness and
bodily-oblivion continued I know not, but
at last it seemed that the music and the song
grew fainter and far away ; the heavens
began to fade, and little by little the strange
scent of the incense arose, and again I
seemed to sleep, but that second sleep was
waking, for my senses returned, and I found
Astrsea's hands still clasping mine, the room
lit by the lamp I had noticed at first, and
Cardenas bending over us as if waiting for
our awakening. We rose ; and as I looked
into my love's eyes, I knew that during our
trance my thoughts and hers had been as one.

Children,' said Cardenas, as he joined
our hands once more, * remember, your spirits
are as one. You may be parted on earth,
but not in space. Sin by one is sin by the
other. One cannot rise or fall without the
other.'

Then, trembling with awe, we passed
under the upraised tapestry, and spoke no
more that night.

Chatter II.

Many and many a time, when I awoke of a
morning, and, in my own home, saw only the
commonplace attributes of life around me, I
said, *I have dreamed these wonderful things;'
and then, as sleep left me and my full powers
of thought came into play, I would lie and
marvel at the mysteries now interwoven with
my life. Regretting nothing : longing only for
the hour to come when I might again see my
spirit-bride, as I now called her: not, indeed,
to her face, as by tacit consent we never
mentioned the occurrences of that evening.
VOL. n. 26

I saw her now less than before, as Cardenas
insisted upon my company for some hours
every day. He was engaged, he said, in
developing the full powers of my mind, and
everything this strange man taught me at
this period seemed to tend to one goal, the
improvement of 'the human race. If his
ideas were erratic, they were colossal ; if his
theories were false, they were magnificent.
Men were eventually to become a race of
demigods. Time he counted as nothing.

True,' he said, in reply to a question of
mine, ' that it may be a thousand years before
the consummation ; but what then ? I shall
see nothing of my work in the flesh, but my
spirit will see it. As the original progenitor
of the Jews — call him Abraham, for sake
of argument — by the force of his own character
stamped his race With peculiarities
that keep it distinct from others, so shall the
far more wonderful race we give the world
alter the whole tone of mankind, and when
the present puny creatures are extinct and
forgotten, my descendants will look back and
honour me as the god from whom they
sprung.'

And I, rightly or wrongly, sat at this man's
feet and believed ! The months passed on,
the dead leaves fell from the trees, and
winter came upon us ; every sign of the
fleeting year was welcomed by me as bringing
me so much nearer to the day when the
master should declare the probation to be at
an end.

In February I received some tidings from
my father's country, France, that changed
the whole tenour of my life. A relative died,
and on his death I was found to be entitled
to some considerable property. It was absolutely
necessary I should go to Paris to
establish my identity, but I greatly disliked
the idea of the journey. By this time my
love and my teacher were so linked with my
life, that I dreaded even a few days separation.
It was Cardenas himself who at last
prevailed upon me to undertake the journey.

My son,' he said, * remember you have
yet to play an important part on the stage of
the world. Sweet as the repose of our present
life is, it may be well for you not to
forget the existence of mankind. Go. Astrsea
and I will watch every day for your return.'

And SO, with a heart foreboding evil, I
went. How strange it seemed to me, after
the events of the last few months, to step
into the every-day world again ; how prosaic
ordinary men and women seemed in comparison
with my late companions ! Whereever
I might be, my thoughts flew back to
the house that held my beautiful splrlt-bride
and her wonderful father. Everything else
seemed dull and commonplace in my eyes,
and ardently I longed for the time when
I might be at liberty to rejoin them. Tvluch
to my annoyance, the business that called me
to Paris was protracted ; and when at length
I began to see the end of it, the event
occurred which has been fatal to my life's
happiness. Simply to kill the weary hours, I
visited, one evening, some place of amusement
— a sort of ball, I believe it was ; and
as I leant, lonely and preoccupied, against
the wall of the room, watching, but not
thinking of the dancers, something in my
manner Qfave offence to a Frenchman who
had drunk enough wine to make him quarrelsome.
The quarrel, however it arose, was
nothing but an encounter between a drunken

bully and a contemptuous sober man ; but a
blow passed, and a meeting was peremptorily
claimed. Being half a Frenchman myself, I
could scarcely, had I wished to do so, have
avoided it ; and having always been skilful
with the foils, had little inclination to baulk
my insulter, and feared less as to the result of
the duel.

We met the day but one after the quarrel,
and I, who had never struck a blow in anger
since I was a boy, found, upon crossing
swords with my antagonist, and seeing the
vengeful look in his sullen eyes, the lust for
blood rise within me. For the first few
minutes I was hardly pressed, and, being
unused to fighting in earnest, wild and
flurried ; but soon I grew calm, and fought
well and steadily. My opponent was an
accomplished swordsman ; yet, how I knew
not, one of my passes went through his guard,
and he fell dead at my feet.

I felt but lite remorse. The man had
fastened an unsought quarrel upon me, and,
as I learnt before the engagement, was a
well-known duellist. I felt sad that a man's
life should be cut short, as I should have felt

had I seen him killed in a railway accident ;
but I laid no blame to myself that he had
fallen by my hand. He had insulted me, he
had challenged me, and I was fighting for
my own life. So confident did I feel of being
in the right, that I refused to fly across the
frontier, preferring to stand my trial. The
insult had been so marked, the provocation
so great, that the court acquitted me. As
soon as I was released, I travelled as fast as
I could to England, and reached my home
late at night, longing for the morning to
break, that I might again see Astraea, and in
her love forget all troubles and annoyances.
I was very anxious, as, strange to say, since
the duel I had received no communication
from her, whilst up to that time letters had
reached me each day. I had written to
apprise her of my return, so, late as it was,
Alas scarcely surprised to hear that Cardenas
was waiting for me in the library.

I found him in a thoughtful attitude, his
head resting on his hand, his brows contracted
: eagerly I advanced to greet him,
with words of tender solicitude upon my lips.
Waiving my proffered hand aside, he rose.

Away !' he cried ; ' there Is blood upon
that hand !'

I staggered back, when, gazing upon me
with a stern yet sorrowful expression, he
said :

Philip Beauvais, you have shed human
blood In anofer. We meet no more.'

Distractedly I endeavoured to justify myself,
but all my words were unavailing.

Right or wrong,' he said, * I care not ; a
man's life lies at your door, and with that
life passes the lot for which I had destined
you.'

Till that moment it had never entered my
thoughts that his Idiosyncrasy would lead him
to dream of severing Astrsea and myself;
but as the truth flashed across me, all light
and hope seemed to leave the world. I cast
myself at his feet, implored and wept. I
conjured him by the love he bore his daughter,
by the love he bore me, not to part us ; but
the only answer I could get was :

It may not be ; your hands are stained
with blood, so you are no mate for the
Daughter of the Stars.'

Driven to desperation, I cried :

Not only for myself, but for her 1 plead.
She loves me ; yea, and our spirits are one,
linked together by your poAver, and your
own lips said that nought could sever them.'

He paused, and said — not so much byway
of reply, but as one communing with
himself :

I think not ; my power may be waning
with increasing years, but it may yet be
strong enough to keep your souls apart.'

But I will see her again !' I exclaimed ; * I
will see her, even if I have to force an
entrance into her chamber.'

Ever calm, he replied :

Leave this place tomorrow, and return Ina
week's time, and it may be you shall be
admitted.'

In vain I begged some word that hope
might live on : all he would say was, ' Come
in a week's time.' And then, with a sad but
kindly look on me, he departed.

Obedient to his command, I spent the next
week wearily in a dull city ; and when the
stipulated time had passed, with beating heart
stood once more before the gate of The
Hermitage.

I reached my home somehow and threw
myself on my bed, from which I did not rise
for a month. The mental strain and grief
combined brought on so severe an illness
that for days I lay at the point of death.
When I recovered — aye, even before I recovered
— I commenced the quest of my life
a quest that even now is unfulfilled. I,
first of all, sought the owner of The Hermitage,
and inquired as to the whereabouts
of his late tenant, and was informed that
Cardenas had simply paid the rent to the
end of his term and quitted, leaving no address.
By the aid of a detective I traced
them to Calais, and there the scent failed.
Then I left England, and for three long
years sought them through every large town
of Europe. I lavished large sums in engaging
skilled police assistance, and fainter
and fainter my hopes grew with every report
of failure. I fancied it possible that Cardenas

might bring Astoria forth from her seclusion,
so if I heard of the advent of any genius in
the artistic or literary world, any new poetess,
artist or singer who was taking the world by
storm, I hurried to the scene of her triumph,
to convince myself she was not Astraea, my
spirit-bride. I lived for the one object of regaining
her, and with travel, search, false
hopes and chilling failures, the years passed.
One day, having to wait for a few hours in
the old town of Rouen, as I walked in my
usual aimless manner through the narrow
streets, I came face to face with the man I
had sought so far and wide. Inly heart leapt
in my breast, and eagerly I sprang forward
to hold him, lest he should seek to escape
me. ' This action was needless, as he evidently
had no intention of evading me. He
knew me at once and stopped, and I, for
some moments, could say nothing ; only stand
and gaze at him, wondering if my good fortune
was real. I could not help noticing that
he looked older and more careworn ; but the
intellect shone clearly as ever in his face, and
his wonderful dark eyes still conveyed the impressions
power and lordship over his fellows.

He spoke first, and strangely the melodious
voice of old thrilled me.

You have sought me for three years,' he
said, ' and now you find me. What would
you ?'

Astraea, my bride I said wildly.

Poor boy,' he said, with an air of compassion,
'and you have suffered. Does the
dream I bade you dream linger yet ? Can
you not forget ?'

Never. Let me but see her once, and I
will rest content for years.'

With calm pity, he said :

Would you be happier in remembering
her as one who loved you, or as one who has
forgotten your existence ?'

Let me but see her,' was my only reply,
and my heart beat wildly as I fancied I saw
him relenting.

Follow me, then,' he said, ' but indulge in
no vain hopes, for I say that the poles of the
earth are not further apart than you two will
ever be

In silence I followed him, and soon we
entered a large old house, and he showed
me into a room on the first floor, where, near

the window, sat Astrcea. Her beauty to my
famished eyes seemed more glorious than
ever, and with a cry of rapture I sprang
forward to clasp her to my heart, but stopped
short upon seeing her recoil with a look of
unmistakable affright In those eyes that had
ever before grown more radiant at my approach.
It needed no more than this to tell
me she did not even recognise me. As I
stood spell-bound, with extended hands, Cardenas
came forward, and speaking In the
purest French, said :

My daughter, this gentleman believes
you to be an old acquaintance of his.
Vainly have I assured him he is mistaken,,
but only from your own lips will he be convinced.'


She made me a proud courtesy, and the
words, ' Monsieur Is entirely In error ; I have
never seen him before,' smote upon my heart
like the death-knell of that hope which alone
made life endurable to me.

Thus speaking, she passed me with the
evident Intention of quitting the apartment ;
but I seized her hand, and gazed long and
deeply into her eyes. At first they met

mine with a firm, steady glance ; yet as I
gazed I saw a troubled expression rise in
their clear depths, even as though memory
was striving to re-assert her reign ; but as my
hope took form she withdrew her hand hastily
and left us.

Mad in my rage, I turned upon Cardenas
and cursed him.

'It is a juggle I cried. 'You have
stolen her memory of my love from her.
Else she could neither forget nor be false
to me.'

My angry words provoked no answering
warmth on his part ; he only said, sadly :

I would have spared you this, but you
were sure to discover us some day, and it
was well you should learn the truth at once

*What is the truth — she loves mc no
more ?'

Listen, Philip. When I found you were
no longer fitted to be my son, I bade you
leave me, and I carried my daughter away
that you might meet no more. As you sorrowed
for her, so she sorrowed for you, and
then I bade her forget the past. You, who
know my power of old, will believe me when

I say that at my command that portion of her
life vanished from her memory ; that all those
months we spent together are to her a blank.
Do you doubt ?'

No,' I said, * but give me oblivion likewise.'


I cannot,' he replied ; ' I have not sway
over you to that extent.'

But our spirit-union ?' I asked.

I fancied he seemed troubled as he replied,
That was all nonsense ; a mesmeric trance
they call it, in which no doubt you dreamed
strange things.'

I said no more, but, sick at heart at the
result of my interview with Astrsea, left him,
noting carefully the house and the street, but
utterly uncertain as to what future line of
action to take.

That night, as I lay sleepless, vivid to my
mind came the recollection of the mysterious
ceremony in the tapestried room. Again I
felt Astraea's fingers entwined with mine, my
head resting on her arm. I saw the white
draped altar, and before it the tall, commanding
figure of Cardenas. It seemed to me
that even the perfume of the strange incense

was in the air ; and as the scene rose again
before me I cried, * O sweet, my bride, come
to me, for are not our souls for ever united !'
And then I knew that her spirit was with
me, and that mine went forth to meet it.
And all seemed joy, and we two were
together once more. Her thoughts my
thoughts, and my thoughts hers. Our existence
one. Let our bodies be far apart,
our spirits, free from the trammels of the
flesh, could meet and wander forth at will.
Let him who reads say, ' a dream ;' I care
not. It was no dream, nor was dream ever
like unto this. Let science, now or hereafter,
attempt to explain the mystic intercourse we
held ; for me it is sufficient to know that in
the depth of that night her soul sought mine,
and, together, we wandered, or floated forth,
under the clear stars. No words, as far as
the world understands them, passed between
us ; but plain as the letters my pen now
forms on the paper before me could I read
in some mysterious way each thought of
hers, and, as I read it, knew that my answering
thought was clear to her. I can only
make myself at all understood by saying we

spoke in thought ; that our spirit converse
that night contained Httle but the renewal of
our unalterable love ; that as we passed beneath
the luminous stars, shining, to our
spirit-sight, with a radiancy unknown to
human eyes — as the moon above, to us an
orb of dazzling silver, clothed the world
beneath us In light and shadow, we knew our
destinies were linked for all time.

I cannot tell the duration of our Intercourse
that night. It must have been measured by
hours, as I can well remember watching the
moon sink into a bank of clouds on the
horizon — clouds that to bodily eyes may have
been dark, but which to us were glorious
with veiled light — and then the morning star
arose in splendour ; and then, as once before,
all things seemed to fade as I felt I was sinking
into sleep, only to awake with the sun
hlo^h overhead.

O, the joy I felt as I recalled the events of
that night ! I knew that Astrsea's love,
could the cloud that lay over her memory be
lifted, was mine yet. Well I knew I had
dreamed no dream ; but, marvellous as It
might be, we had, free from all fetters that

would restrain us, that night held mystic
communion. I felt no fear, no awe — ^joy-
alone at the strength of the bond that bound
us together. I wondered if I had power to
summon her at will ; yet dare not try, fearing
she might suffer untold agony if a stronger
power than mine withstood her. ' I will
wait I said, ' and my beloved will come tome
at her own time. Some day I may
learn what power is mine ; now I will only
wait and hope.'

I thought I would try and see her again :
for now she might know me, and, perhaps,
in spite of her father's wish, would follow me
to the ends of the earth. I had no difficulty
in finding the house, but was peremptorily
denied admission. In vain I offered large
bribes ; the servant was faithful to his trust,
Monsieur was away, and his orders were
distinct.' I left the house and longed for the
night to come, hoping we might meet again.
Alas ! it was not so. Neither in the many
hours I waited and watched, nor in the few
hours I slept, did she come.

The next day I sought the house once
more, and in the servant's face read, before

VOL. H. . 27

he spoke, the words, ' Monsieur has departed
I know not where.'

Although fearing that further search would
be vain, I resumed the Hfe I had been leading
for the last three years, and wandered
from town to town, ever hoping that Cardenas
might again cross my path — a hope
as yet ungratified.

And yet I am not unhappy. Again and
again she has been with me. I know not
when she is coming, yet suddenly T am aware
that her spirit is with me and calls for mine.
O, the rapture of those meetings ! We
wander forth over the face of the earth. We
float through the dark pine forests of the
north and the o^lowine wildernesses of the
tropics. We see the grandeur of mighty
mountains and the sweetness of peaceful
valleys. We pass, at will, through great
cities, over fruitful plains or arid deserts.
We watch the bending of the Southern
Cross, or the moon glimmering white on
regions of untrodden snow. We cross the
deep seas and seek fair islands unknown toman.
Space to us is nothing. The world

and all Its glories — yea, even the heavens are
ours. We hear strains of wondrous music,
and ours are the secrets of the stars.

Not only at night does she seek me now.
Even in the sunlight, with the busy world
around, she calls for me, and I obey her
summons. And then I am told that I have
lain for hours in a trance, motionless and
scarcely breathing, and men look upon meas
one whom Death may claim at any
moment — I, who laugh at their fears and
pray that the same sweet trance maybe mine
again tomorrow.

And latterly, she has sought me more
frequently, and I know that her spirit grows
more joyful. Can it be that the power that
parts us is waning ? That age is stealing
the force from that strange and resolute mind
that decreed her waking hours to be void of
all recollection of our love .^ That, eventually,
all the dominion he holds over her will
be gone, his sway broken ; that, at last, In.
her glorious beauty, she will come to me in
body, as in spirit, and, standing before me,
whisper, ' I am here !' when the bitterness of

27 — 2

the past shall fade In the light of the love
glowing in her radiant eyes ?

O Astrsea I Daughter of the Stars ! My
spirit-bride ! I wait — I long for that hour.
Let it be soon !

If the Rector of Chelston could cut out,
obliterate, forget one short year of the fortyfive
he has lived he might be a happy man ;
or as happy as a mortal may be, who recognises
the responsibilities and duties of life.
His living is a rich one. He has no
domestic worries or aggrieved parishioners.
He is of good family — so good that he takes
his place among the county people as much
by right as by courtesy. In spite of his
grave, not to say austere, manners, he has
won the love of his parishioners and friends ;
and if the world he rules spiritually is a little
one, his writings have carried his name far
beyond It. Certainly, the Rev. Percival
Blake is a successful man, and could that
one year be forgotten, might be a happy one.

The story of the year he would consign to
oblivion is this :

Ten years ago, at half-past six o'clock on
the 31st of December, the stars were shining
brightly ; at eight o'clock the congregation
coming: out of Chelston Church found a
heavy snowstorm raging. The wind had
changed. An army of dark clouds had
hurried up and was attacking the earth so
furiously that already everything within
ranee was white with snow.

The Rector's mother, a lady of stately
presence, came down the aisle attended by
her two daughters. She paused to address
a few reproachful words to the sexton,
respecting the low temperature inside the
church ; then passed into the porch, which
was full of members of the congregation preparing
to fight their way home through the
unexpected snowstorm. Wishing all present
a happy new year, the ladies wrapped
their cloaks around them, and at a brisk
pace went up the lane which led to the
Rectory.

There was warmth and comfort. The
reflection of a roaring fire danced on every

polished oak panel of the dining-room.
Mrs. Blake and her daughters gathered
round the blaze like priestesses round an
altar ; and the bell was rung to show they
were ready for tea.

It was a week-day. The service had been
held to mark the last day of the year. The
Rector, a sensible man, disapproved of midnight
services. His flock were better in bed
at such an hour. So he had given them the
ordinary evensong, and preached a short
suitable sermon. His work over, he was
expected home every moment.

The tea came, but not the Rector. The
cosy was put on the teapot, and the hot
cakes placed inside the fender. The ladies
sat toasting themselves and discussing who
were and who were not at church.

Presently Selina, the younger daughter,
looked out of window and reported that
the lights of the church were extinguished.
It was decided that Percival had gone on
some errand of charity so the ladles began
tea without him. Mrs. Blake was filling the
cups for the second time when the missing-rector
entered.

Perclval Blake was above middle height,
and strongly but not clumsily built. His
face must be described by a word which
should convey more than * handsome ' — it
was a fine face. If now, and when in
repose, it wore an expression of contented
indolence, it was, nevertheless, the face of a
man from whom something out of the common
might be expected.

The truth is, his life had been far too
uneventful and easy. He possessed abilities
which had never yet been fully called forth ;
he was capable of passion which had never
yet been aroused. The sharp spurs of
ambition and love had not yet gored his
flanks. This may be understood when one
knows that at thirty he was Rector of
Chelston — and even now, at thirty-five, he
had not met the woman he could love.

Young as he was when the late Rector,
his father, died, his succession was a matter
beyond question. The living of Chelston
belongs to Lord Keynsham, and, as all the
county knows, Percival's father was Lord
Keynsham's first cousin. That the young
clergyman was to stand in his father s shoes

OO

had been settled long ago. He had been
brought up to do so as surely as a merchant's
son is brought up to enter his business.

So the boy was apprenticed to the trade.
There was no question as to his fitness for
the sacred office. The fact of his being his
father's son settled this. He himself accepted
his position as a matter of course, and after
a creditable career at Oxford, seeded down
to do duty as his father's curate.

He was a conscientious man, and did his
work well. But his life had been made too
simple, too easy for a man of his powers. It
seemed all arranged : beginning, middle, and
end.

His father died. He took his place, his
mother and sisters living on at the Rectory,
and looking after the needs of the parish
even as they did in his father's reign. At
first they supposed Percival would marry ;
after a year or two they believed, perhaps
hoped, he would not ; now they looked upon
him as cut out for a bachelor, and felt pretty
secure of their tenure.

You are late, my dear,' said Mrs. Blake,
as the young Rector took his seat.

Yes ; and cold and hungry too.'

They ministered to his creature comforts.
He drank his tea and ate his muffins with
gusto.

^ Your sermon was very powerful,' said
Mrs. Blake. ' At times I think you preach
almost up to your poor father's level.'

Thank you,' said Percival, suppressing a
smile.

Preaching had not been his predecessor's
forte.

Percival said Maria, his eldest sister,
did you notice a lady in black ? She sat in
the south aisle.'

The laity may be confiding, but a clergyman's
mother and sisters know he is able,
and often ready, to take stock of his congregation.


The Rector had noticed her.

We feel sure she is the person who has
just come to The Hollies.'

She is. She told me so.'
^ Told you so ! When ?'

Three pairs of astonished eyes gazed at
the Rector.

It is on her account I am late. Just as

I was leaving the church, old Jones told mea
lady had slipped on the snow and sprained
her ankle. I picked her up and carried her
into the vestry.'

You carried her ! Couldn't you have left
that to Jones — if necessary ?'

^ My dear mother I She was a fine young
woman, weighing about twelve stone. Jones
is past seventy, and getting shaky.'

This answer was unanswerable.

Well ?' asked Mrs. Blake severely.

^ Jones went to the Red Lion for a cab, or
some conveyance. I tried a little amateur
surgery.'

Alone with her in the vestry ?'

Her maid was there. A poor helpless
creature, more hindrance than use.'

Helpless or not, Mrs. Blake was relieved
at hearing about the maid. ^ Was it a real
sprain ?' she asked suspiciously.

The ankle was swollen to an enormous
size. I was obliged to cut her boot off.'

Oh !' gasped Mrs. Blake. ' And then ?'

I ascertained no bones were broken,
bathed it with cold water, and bound it up,
in a most workmanlike way, with my handkerchief.

Then Jones and the cab came.
I saw my patient home, and here I am.'

The Rector of Chelston bathing and
binding up a young woman's ankle in the
vestry was more than Mrs. Blake could
stand. She rose from her seat and gave her
son her ideas on the subject.

All I can say is, that carrying beautiful
young women into vestries, attending to
their ailments, and taking them home, is. In
my opinion, an clerical, if not a disreputable,
proceeding.'

The Rector's cheek flushed, but he checked
the hot retort which rose to his lips ; still
his voice and manner showed there was a
limit to maternal authority and his own
patience.

I did not say she was beautiful. I would
have done the same for the oldest and ugliest
of my congregation. Good night. I am
going to my study.'

The ladles looked blank ; the more so
when the hours passed without his reappearing.
It was their custom at the Rectory to
watch the old year out, and exchange good
wishes as the clock struck twelve. Mrs.

Blake grew very fidgety as midnight drew
near, and was trying to bring herself to go to
her son and ask his pardon. But Percival
spared her this by returning of his own
accord.

'Mother,' he said, 'you spoke hastily.
But it is the last night of the year ; let us
forget it.'

Mrs. Blake melted.

Oh, Percival, it was only from anxiety on
your account.'

He laughed.

I am old enough to look after myself.'

Yes, my dear. But, Percival, who is
she ?'

I told you. Mrs. Russell, the lady just
come to The Hollies.'

But 7jj/io is she ? No one knows anything
about her. She may be an adventuress. '

Adventuresses are not likely to come
to Chelston. Besides, we heard she bought
the house, and I suppose has paid for it.'

Is she a lady ?' asked Selina — ' lady ' bore
a very high meaning with the Lakes.

Undoubtedly. But you can call and
judge for yourselves.'

Mrs. Blake made no objection to calling.
Unless there was something known against
her, the new arrival was entitled to a call
from the Rectory folks. Besides, Mrs.
Blake, still much troubled by the vestry
episode, wanted to see Mrs. Russell, and
form her own opinions.

Twelve o'clock struck, and after the usual
good wishes the family party separated.

What will the new year bring ?' said the
Rector as he undressed himself ' Not much
change so far as Chelston is concerned.
That was a very beautiful woman,' he added.

The next morning, in spite of the four
inches of snow, Percival Blake felt bound to
walk to The Hollies and inquire after his
new parishioner. The Hollies, a medium-sized
house, stood in about half an acre of
garden on the outskirts of Chelston village.
At the back were meadows, and through the
meadows ran the deep Chelston brook, or
river, as the inhabitants were pleased to call
it. The Rectory was half a mile from The
Hollies, and Percival, as he walked the
distance, had time to wonder why a beautiful
young woman like Mrs. Russell should

choose Chelston as an abode. Not that
society was wanting, provided one was duly
accredited. But the county people are
rigidly exclusive, and few enter the circle
on their own merits. The impression Mrs.
Russell had given the Rector was that of a
woman who would scarcely be contented
with the society of the doctor's and lawyer's
wives and daughters, much less with that of
the respectable farmers' women-kind.

Mrs. Russell was better. She was up, and
would be glad to see Mr. Blake. The Rector
hesitated — thinking of his snow-caked boots
but after some vigorous work with scraper
and door-mat, decided that he might venture
into a drawing-room, so he followed the
servant to Mrs. Russell and his fate.

His first thought was that, high as he had
ranked her beauty, he had under-estimated it.
But then he had seen her in the dimly lighted
vestry and while she was suffering great pain.
Now!

An artist should have painted her ! A
sculptor should have fixed that attitude immovably
in marble I She lay on a couch
wheeled round by the fire. Her pose was

full of that grace which appeals so eloquently
to the eye capable of appreciating beauty and
symmetry of form. It was unstudied and
natural, yet full of dignity. Moreover, the
classical purity of her style was bound to tell
upon a man of Percival Blake's good taste.
Adventitious aids she had none. The thick
dark shining hair was coiled simply on the
well-proportioned head. Her dress was
plain black, but fitting her so as to show
every line of that splendid figure. The
dark eyes, lashes and eyebrows looked
darker, the bright red lips redder, from the
contrast with the white face. White, but, if
such words can convey the idea, warm-white.
If colour was wanting on the cheek, no one
would call her pale ; her complexion spoke of
warmth, life, and health.

And Percival marvelled again that such a
creature should bury herself in such a place
as Chelston.

She greeted him smilingly. She gave him
her hand ; it was white and well-shapen, but
not diminutive. A tiny hand would have
been a deformity with a woman of her
splendid build. She thanked him for last

night's kindness. He hoped she was better,
and complimented her on her fortitude.
After this light skirmish of pretty sayings
they settled down to general conversation.

Certainly a most interesting woman ! She
was animated ; she was natural ; she talked
well ; she questioned the Rector about the
parish, the church, the schools, the neighbourhood,
and other subjects which are
clerical specialities. Then their conversation
became more eclectic — literature, music,
painting, even politics. After a little while
the Rector found himself discussing and
arguing, as if her opinion carried weight.
As the Rev. Perclval had a low opinion of
the intellectual powers of women in general,
this was a great compliment to Mrs. Russell.

The minutes passed pleasantly. At last the
Rector felt that, so far as time was concerned,
the obligations of duty and politeness had
been discharged. He showed signs of leave-taking.


Spare me a few minutes more,' said Mrs.
Russell. ' I have something to say.'

He reseated himself willingly enough.

I suppose you are all puzzling your heads

VOL. II. 28

about me she said gravely ; ' your mother
and sisters, for instance ?'

This direct attack confused the Rector.

Chelston is a little place he said.

And, like all little places,' she continued,
much exercised about a new-comer ?'

As you use the phrase, I may as well say
it is the right one

Well, Mr. Blake, I have no wish to be an
object of curiosity or suspicion. In a village,
the Rectory — not, perhaps, the Rector — is
often the headquarters of gossip.'

Percival laughed ; but, remembering his
mother and sisters, dared not deny the charge.
Mrs. Russell looked at him with her great
dark eyes, and smiled as she saw how correctly
she had judged.

I am right, then ? Well, Mr. Blake, if
you are expected to give information, it is
just as well you should be correctly informed
yourself.'

But I have no wish to know. It is not
my business.'

She shrugged her shoulders, and just
raised her eyebrows. The actions were,
perhaps, bordering on coquetry. Mr. Blake

at once caught their meaning. His disclaimer
of curiosity was not flattering to the
fair woman beside him. He hastened to
atone.

I mean, if I can be of service, please
command me.'

He wondered at the eagerness of his own
manner. She smiled.

I should like this to be known,' she said.
I have no wish for society, and I bring no
credentials. My story is this : My father
was a well-to-do merchant in Liverpool. His
name was Bennett. My mother died when I
was an infant. I was an only child, and was
utterly spoilt. My father's kindness I repaid
by marrying a man whom he particularly
disliked. My husband died three years ago;
my father shortly afterwards. He forgave
me on his death-bed, and left me all he had
to leave. He might well forgive me. I
had long before repented of my obstinacy and
folly.'

A hard look came into her eyes as she
spoke.

'You were unhappy?' said the Rector
sympathizing.

28—2

More than unhappy — poor, unhappy, and
ill-treated. But that concerns no one save
myself.'

She was silent. Her eyes looked far away.
Her lips hardened and grew thin with a bitter
smile. Percival Blake, watching her, knew
that she had a past she would fain forget.

Thank you for your confidences,' he said.
You are right, living in a small inquisitive
world, to publish your antecedents. I shall
tell the busybodies as much as seems good tome.
And' you really mean to live at Shelton
?' he continued.

I think so. I hated the loneliness of
London. I have no friends, no relations.
The fit seized me to try the country. I saw
this house advertised. Chelston was the
same to me as another place. So here I
am, with a faithful old servant to look after
arne.'

You will find it terribly dull'

One may be dull, yet fairly happy. I can
amuse myself. I am fond of reading, of
painting, of music. Perhaps, when you know
me better, you will find me something todo.'


Anyway, we must try and keep you now
said the Rector gallantly.

Then he took his leave, and went to perform
less agreeable if less dangerous duties.
He dared not confess to himself how greatly
his Interest had been awakened by the
strange, uncommon beauty of this woman.
But he dimly understood how It might be
possible for a man to forsake friends, duty —
even creed — for the sake of some one whom
he pictured as not unlike his new parishioner.
He was nearer to his fate than he imagined.

His account of his morning's exploits
spread consternation through the Rectory.
With discreditable want of tact he praised
Mrs. Russell to the skies. His mother and
sisters at once took the alarm. Percival,
after all, might not be cut out for a bachelor.
The joint regency was threatened — not by
one who would be a suitable spouse for the
Rector of Chelston, but by a terribly beautiful
young widow, about whom no one knew
anything!

Nevertheless, they called at the Hollies,
and Mrs. Blake's heart sank as she saw that
Percival had not been led astray by the

glamour of good looks when he declared
that Mrs. Russell was a lady. Maria and
Selina, the Rector's sisters, two plain, middle-aged
women, who had outlived envy of
another's personal charms, rather inclined
to the new-comer ; but their mother was
obdurate. She shook her head ominously.

There is a mystery,' she said. ' There is
something wrong with that woman : I have
a presentiment'

Mrs. Blake's presentiments were not things
t6 be trifled with.

However, a kind of reserved friendship
sprang up between the ladies. Mrs. Blake
looked upon it as an armed truce, under
cover of which she could the better protect
her son from the allurements of this mysterious
syren.

But unhappily that son began to manifesta
strength of will and determination to walk
his own way, and, moreover, walked that
way so far and so openly that the folks about
Chelston began to talk : but even that troubled
the Rector very lite.

He had long left off deceiving himself.
His fate had met him. He loved this

woman with all the strength of his really
strong nature, and was striving, in deadly
earnest, to make her love him. His passion
had swept away all domestic barriers.
Mother, sisters, everything faded into insignificance
beside It. Life without that
one woman's love was worthless. The
touch of her hand, the look of her dark
eyes, the sound of her musical voice, thrilled
him. The Rector of Chelston loved at last
loved as only one man out of a thousand
can love. His was not the sparkling transient
emotion of a boy — not the dotage of the
septuagenarian — It was the ardent glowing
passion of a man — the love of a lifetime !

He blamed himself bitterly for this complete
surrender to one dominant passion.
He saw what dangers he might be led into,
yet was helpless against his fate. His unhealthy
state of mind was clearly shown him
whilst he was engaged in the performance of
a peculiarly painful duty. A son of one of
his parishioners had murdered his sweetheart.
He was now lying In the county gaol under
sentence of death. It was reported that he
was callous and impenitent. His father,

with tears in his eyes, begged Percival Blake
to visit his boy and try and save his guilty
soul. The criminal had once been the
brightest of the village boys, and a great
favourite of Percival's. Perhaps his pleading
might succeed where another's failed.
The Rector at once visited the gaol, and
tried all his powers of persuasion to bring
the convict to a proper frame of mind. But
his labour was vain. The young man was
quiet and respectful. He regretted the
necessity for the deed, but not the deed
itself.

I loved her,' he said sullenly. ' No other
man should have her. I would do it again
rather.'

Percival prayed and reasoned without
moving him an atom. But the murderer
at last turned to him and said :

'You've never loved a girl like I did, Mr.
Blake, or you'd have done just the same.'

Percival Blake turned pale. The thought
struck him like a bullet — the man was speaking
the truth. He — even he, the Rector of
Chelston — would kill his love rather than
another man should have her !

God help me !' he groaned. ' I must end
this.'

So one bright afternoon in April he walked
over to the Hollies and told Philippa Russell
he loved her. He spoke fiercely and sternly,
almost like one under compulsion. In fact,
he all but commanded her to return his love,
and perhaps she liked him none the less for
his masterful bearing.

She looked particularly lovely that afternoon.
Although living in solitude, she was
always well dressed. Had she anticipated
the visit and wished to hasten the avowal,
she could not have attired herself more
effectively. The man must be ultra-fastidious
who could find a single fault in her personal
appearance — or so thought the Rector as he
waited her answer.

For a while she was silent. She stood
with her white fingers interlaced. Her
downcast eyes gave her wooer no sign, buta
wave of colour crossed the healthy pallor
of her cheek. Then she raised her eyes,
and her look set every pulse in his body
throbbing. In another moment he would
have thrown his arms around her.

But she checked him, although she still
gazed at him. She spoke ; her words were
strange, but there was something in her voice
which as yet he had never detected there.

Tell me how much you love me !' she
said.

'I cannot,' he whispered. In truth, he
dared not even tell himself.

'Tell me how much you love me!' she
reiterated.

Far above any being in the world.'

A scornful smile made her look even more
beautiful.

Spare me the ordinary lover's protestations.
But stay,' she continued, with a
marvellous change of voice and manner.
I am treating you unfairly. Percival, listen.
I love you ! I love you !'

She leant a little way towards him. The
action was unmistakable. His arms were
round her ; his lips on her lips. From that
moment life held but one thing for the Rector
of Chelston.

^ Tell me; tell me now, Percival,' whispered
Philippa, as she lay passive in his arms.

Even then there flashed across him that

scene in the gaol. If he spoke the truth he
need seek no further for a fitting simile. He
bent his head, and whispered in a strange
hoarse voice.

I love you even as that young man just
hanged loved. I would kill you rather than
you should love another.'

She laughed deliriously.

'Sweet, sweet love!' she cried. 'I believe
you ! I love you !'

Then she laid her head on his shoulder
and sobbed.

He adored her, yet he feared her. He
was her master, yet her slave. She had
wrung words from him which no man,
certainly no clergyman, should dare to say ;
but she had told him and shown him she
loved him. He led her to a seat, and, now
that the victory was his, began to count the
spoils.

We will be married soon, dearest,' he said.

She pressed her hands to her forehead.

I did not promise to marry you,' she
said.

The Rector wondered if he heard aright.

Philippa, what do you mean ?' he cried.

All semblance of passion had left her. She
looked at him with sorrowful eyes.

You asked me if I loved you. I answered
truly. For the rest, you took me by surprise.
Come tomorrow or the next day.'

But why. What is your meaning ? You
love me, and of course will marry me.'

She clasped her hands, then once more
pressed them to her brows.

I am telling lies,' she said. ^ It was no
surprise to me. For weeks I have pictured
this moment. Percival, there shall be no
deceit between us.'

None on my part,' he answered gravely.

sand none on mine. I said, " Come tomorrow."
One day of pleasant dreaming —
one day of your love — seemed worth having.
To-day and tomorrow are the same. Sweet
love, I love you ! Hold my hand — listen
and leave me.'

He obeyed with a white face. She spoke
for some minutes in a low voice. The gravity
of her communication was shown by the
change which the Rector's face and bearing
underwent. Save by one or two smothered
exclamations, he did not interrupt her, and

when she had finished speaking, sat silent and
motionless. She drew her hand from his
and rose. His eyes followed her, and at last,
with dry lips, he whispered :

This is the truth ?'

This is the truth,' she said, moving towards
the door. ' Farewell. I leave here
tomorrow.*

At the door she llnorered and looked back.
Their eyes met. A shiver ran through the
man's strong frame. Then, like one who
makes, for good or ill, a sudden resolution, he
sprang to his feet.

^ What do I care ?' he cried. ' I love you.
I cannot live without you. Let it be all forgotten,
or borne together.'

Once more he embraced her. She made
no resistance, no attempt to conceal the
joy his decision gave her. But presently,
drawing a little away from him, she
said :

Percival, if you give me your love in spite
of all, it must be for ever. Nothing must
part us.'

It is for ever. Nothing shall part us.'

An hour afterwards the Rector walked

home, and Informed his mother that Phlh'ppa
Russell had consented to be his wife.

Mrs. Blake did not faint. She did not
even revile her future daughter-in-law. Percival's
manner told her that words to this
effect would be wasted. But she entreated
her son, by every claim she had upon him, todo
nothing hurriedly. Of course, she objected
to his desire ; but she knew her objections
would have no Influence upon a man so madly
in love. But she prayed for delay — literally
went upon her knees and besought him not
to be married for twelve months. A clever
woman was Mrs. Blake. Who knew what
unforeseen things might happen in a
year ?

Perclval yielded to some extent. After all,
before he married he must prepare another
home for his mother and sisters. He wished
to refurnish the Rectory. He wished to be
married without undue haste. He wished to
see his people friendly with Phlllppa, and he
wished Phlllppa to get some Idea of what a
clergyman's wife should be. So he agreed
to wait six months — even, when worn out by
his mother's tearful Importunities, extended

this time of probation till the end of the
present year. In exchange, he stipulated
that Mrs. Blake should try and bring herself
to regard Philippa as a daughter.

He told Philippa what he had promised.
She said nothing, but something in her look
made him regret he had made the promise.
However, he vowed that the first of January
should be his wedding-day.

Mrs. Blake kept, at any rate, the letter of
her contract with her son. The intercourse
between the Rectory and the Hollies seemed
so friendly, that it looked as if the Rector's
mother was going to make the best of what
she thought a bad job. Yet her presentiment
was always with her. Although it was
placed beyond doubt that Mrs. Russell had a
considerable fortune, Mrs. Blake kept her
presentiment, and prayed every night that
Percival might escape from this siren. Todo
her justice, she was not anxious that he
should marry money, so Mrs. Russell's fortune
did not affect her views. Mrs. Blake
played her part very well, and Percival was
delighted when she suggested that Philippa
should accompany her daughters and herself

to London, whither they always went early In
June ; for Mrs. Blake, although but a country
Rector s widow, was a woman of fashion and
friends.

It Is very possible that whilst pressing this
invitation on Phllippa Mrs. Blake thought :
She has lived in London. A woman of her
extraordinary appearance cannot be forgotten.
Some one must surely know all
about her.'

Although Percival begged her to go with
his mother, Phllippa hesitated.

Have you forgotten ?' she whispered.

He frowned.

It is better to face what may be in store
than to fly it. Nothing can part us.'

Very well, I will go.'

She kissed him, and for the thousandth
time told him how much she loved him.

A fortnight afterwards Mrs. Blake and
Phllippa were seated side-by-slde at an
evening party. The beautiful young widow
was the object of much attention. Suddenly
Mrs. Blake noticed that her companion
stopped short in the middle of a sentence,
and begged a gentleman near her to lead her

from the room — the heat was overcoming
her. Then Mrs. Blake felt sure that something
had occurred, and, looking round in
search of it, saw a man leaning against the
opposite wall and eyeing Phlllppa with
amused wonder.

She knew him well — a rising barrister,
with whose family she had long been upon
terms of intimacy. So when he turned his
eyes from the vanishing Philippa to her
vacant chair, Mrs. Blake signed him to
fill it.

She cut greetings and inquiries very short.

You know that lady who just left my
side ?' she said.

^ I thought so. Perhaps I was mistaken.
Tell me her name.'
She told him.
It must be the same,' he said.

What do you know of her ?' asked Mrs.
Blake.

The Law has its secrets as well as the
Church,' said the barrister, laughing.

Don't jest, Richard Graham. I have
known you and your family for years, and

VOL. II. 29

I ask you to tell me who and what Mrs.
Russell is.'

Graham glanced at her, and saw she was
in terrible earnest. He hesitated, then
said :

I met her professionally. I was her
counsel in a — an action.'

Mrs. Blake noted the pause.

A criminal action ?' she asked sharply.

^ Well — yes, it was.'

Was she acquitted ?'

No ; but I believe she was innocent. I
believe it firmly. The jury were fools.'

And this woman about to marry the Rector
of Chelston ! No wonder Mrs. Blake's
agitation was great enough to puzzle the
barrister.

Speak low,' she said. ^ What had she
done ?'

Her husband — a fearful rogue — was tried
for forging and swindling. The rascal tried
to save himself at her expense. She was
tried with him. The man was sent to penal
servitude for five years.'

Yes, yes — but the woman ?'

It was a burning shame,' said Graham.

On my soul, I believe she was Innocent.
The judge thought so too

Go on quickly,' said Mrs. Blake.

Her sentence was three months,' said
Graham reluctantly and sullenly. He hated
himself for having tattled about this beautiful
woman's antecedents.

Then,' said Mrs. Blake, with emphatic
pauses, * she has — actually been — In prison ?'

I suppose so. But why do you want to
know? I wish I had said nothing.'

I have a right to know all about her,' said
Mrs. Blake icily. ' For the sake of sealing
your lips, I may tell you that Percival intended
marrying her. What an escape ! In
prison ! What an escape !'

She sailed away In search of her daughters
and Phllippa. Her head was In a whirl.
The Rector of Chelston about to make a
creature who had worked on the treadmill
and picked oakum his wife ! Her presentiment
had come true with a vengeance. She
walked from room to room in search of her
charges, and mechanically murmured : 'What
an escape ! What an escape !'

Mrs. Russell was willing enough to go

29- — 2

home. Mrs. Blake's lip curled as she
thought why. She said nothing, but before
going to bed telegraphed to her son, bidding
him come at once.

He came up by the nest train the next
morning. Mrs. Blake had managed to get
Philippa and her daughters out of the way,
so was able to meet him alone. His first
inquiry was for Philippa. He seemed
greatly relieved by hearing she was well.

Then Mrs. Blake made her communication.
She was kind enough to suppress all show of
triumph ; but she told him everything, and
wondered at the silence with which he heard it.

Oh, Percival, my son,' she cried, ' what
an escape !'

He looked fearfully stern.

I hoped you would be spared this,' he
said. ' I hoped it might remain unknown to
all save Philippa and myself.'

Percival ! What are you saying ?'

I knew it before she promised to be my
wife. She told me herself. Poor girl, she
was cruelly wronged. Her life has been a
hard one. Till her wretched husband died
in prison it was misery.'

She deceived you — cajoled you ! Perclval
! You cannot mean to '

This will make no change in my plans.
I shall be married on the first of January.'

Mrs. Blake really did succumb at the
announcement. She fell, a dead heap, into a
chair.

Graham I shall see at once,' continued
her son, ' and entreat his silence. But even
if the matter becomes public property it maybe
lived down.'

Mrs. Blake was goaded past endurance.
She rose in fierce wrath.

Besotted boy !' she cried. ' You — In your
position — Rector of Chelston — to marry a
convict, a felon ! Percival, I am ashamed of
you — ashamed ! I will go to the Bishop — to
Lord Keynsham. It shall never be !'

In his present mood the names of the
Bishop and Lord Keynsham were to Percival
no more than sounding brass.

I am sorry, very sorry, mother,' he said :
*but I love Philippe too well to give her up;
and surely, If one person above another should
exercise Christian charity, it Is a clergyman.'

'Christian charity!' said mrs. Blake, with

biting scorn. ' Call it by its true name —
blind, unholy passion !'

She left him, little knowing how deeply her
parting shaft had struck.

He saw Graham ; then returned and told
Philippa everything. She listened with
strange composure.

I expected It,' she said ; ' the past can
never be obliterated.' Then she added, ' I
do not even offer to free you. You are mine
mine for ever.'

The look which accompanied her words
added another link to the chain which bound
him to her.

It was Impossible she should remain longer
with Mrs. Blake. That afternoon, accompanied
by the Rector, she went back to
Chelston. Perclval, who considered he was
absolved from his promise to his mother, suggested
an early day for the marriage.

No, no,' said Philippa. ' Why change our
plans ? I have no fear of losing your love.
No one shall say I have hurried you Into
marriage.'

Mrs. Blake's hopes revived v.'hen, In reply
to a long, reproachful letter, her son informed

her that the previous arrangement would be
adhered to. There was still six months'
grace, so Mrs. Blake did not curtail her
visit to town. She even went to the seaside
for a few weeks as usual. Whilst ' that
creature ' was within stone's-throw, the
Rectory was not an attractive residence.

At last she returned home, and It soon
became an open secret that there was friction
between the ladies of the Rectory and the
lady of The Hollies ; but signs soon multiplied
which told the Chelston folk that the
Rector meant to have his own way.

In the late autumn a house was taken In
the neighbourhood, and it was perfectly well
known this was to be Mrs. Blake's house
after the marriage. Whispers went round
that Mrs. Russell had ordered an extensive
trousseau from London. But all doubt was
disposed of when the banns were called in
Chelston church. Then Mrs. Blake's heart
really sank. She had kept, and woul»-i
her own counsel. The world need not seethe
Rectory soiled linen. But after this
public announcement, which she called an insult
to God and man, she had another stormy

scene with her ' besotted boy.' He was more
determined than ever to go his own way, so
she washed her hands of him altogether.
Perhaps she was not to blame.

Although he saw Philippa frequently, the
days passed slowly with the Rector, and he
honored for the moment which, for better or
worse, would make Philippa his wife. In his
secret heart he blamed himself for the boundless
sway this woman exercised over him —
even the strength of her love startled him.
When they were married all would doubtless
be well. In time his mother and sisters
might come round. Surely, with his strong
mind, he could make the woman who adored
him a perfect parson's wife. In spite of
everything they would be happy ; yet, as he
told himself so, he knew that had the blackest
misery been shown to be his lot, he must
still have married Philippa.

The last day of the old year dawned, and
Percival Blake rejoiced to think that tomorrow
would end his uncertainties and
troubles. He was now alone in the Rectory.
Mrs. Blake, having sternly refused to attend
the ceremony, or to permit her daughters to

be present, had by her son's advice, if not
command, left the neighbourhood for a
while.

Although he had been very busy all the
day he had seen Philippa once or twice, and
had promised to call again after the evening
service. He preached his sermon, introducing
a few fitting words about tomorrow's
event ; then, having lingered In the vestry
giving some last instructions to his subordinates,
he started to walk across to The
Hollies.

In going from the church to The Hollies,
about two hundred yards were saved by turning
out of the main-road and passing through
the meadows which ran by Chelston stream.
Although this route took one to the back of
the house, he usually chose it, Philippa
having given him a key which opened the
garden gate. He went this way now.

It was a clear starlit night. The ground
was turned into Iron by a sharp frost. As
the Rector walked briskly along the river
path, he thought of all that had occurred
since this time last year, when he bore
Philippa into the vestry. Not now did he

wish this year taken out of his life. But he
prayed that before the next year was over
many things which now distressed him
might be made right. It was a terrible thing
to quarrel with mother and sisters, but then
it had been for Philippe's sake. Heavens 1
how he loved that woman.

He turned from the river-path and struck
across the field towards The Hollies. He
had scarcely gone twenty yards when he heard
a sharp scream ; and looking round, he saw
to his right, some distance up the river-bank,
two dark struggling forms. As he ran towards
them he saw that the combatants were
a man and a woman, but he was almost within
arm's-length before he realized the truth —
that the woman, who appeared to be defending
herself from some ruffian's murderous
attack, was Philippa.

Percival Blake was a man of immense
muscular power. At Oxford he had been
famous as an athlete. Without a word he
set his teeth and sprang on Philippe's assailant.
He dared not strike him — his
crushing blow might fall on the wrong
person — but in a second the wretch found

his arms wrenched from his victim and half-dislocated,
whilst he writhed helplessly in the
enacted clergyman's grip.

That ineradicable old Adam, revenge,
lurks in every heart, lay or clerical. Whether
it is aroused or not is but a question of the
strength of the stimulating motive. Surely
a man in the Rector's situation may be
pardoned for inflicting summary punishment.
He did not stop to argue the moral points of
the case. His blood boiled in a most 
manner. Without more ado,
he put forth all his great strength and hurled
the ruffian from him with prodigious force.
The man fell with a dull heavy thud on the
Ironbound path : moreover, he lay there still
and silent ; and Perclval, whose rage was
expended in that effort of strength, felt his
heart grow sick from the fear that he had
taken human life.

Yet Phlllppa was his first care. She stood
by his side motionless. Her face, in the
moonlight, looked livid. Her eyes were
dilated and full of horror. She paid no
heed to his anxious inquiries, but she clasped
her hands round his strong right arm — she

even seemed to caress it, to be trying to
estimate its power.

Percival,' she whispered, ' you are strong
you have killed him.'

God forbid !' said Percival nervously,
and stepping to the fallen man. His fears
were soon at rest. The fellow breathed
heavily, and as he leant over him the Rector
detected in that breath a strong smell of
ardent spirits. He was glad to find the mana
stranger to Chelston — glad he had not
been compelled to chastise one of his own
flock. Evidently the rogue was a half-drunken
tramp ; so, greatly relieved, the
Rector went back to Philippe.

He is dead — you have killed him ?' she
said.

No — senseless, and, I suspect, half-drunk.
Now go home. I will run up to the village
and fetch the constable.'

Philippe shivered.

Go back and kill him,' she said In a
strange voice.

The Rector looked at her in amazement.
Her large eyes gleamed like those of a wild
animal.

My darling,' he said, ' you are upset. If
he has robbed or injured you he will pay
bitterly for it. Go home, dear Philippa, I
will soon be with you.'

Again he felt her shudder. Then all at
once her calmness and presence of mind
seemed to return.

I was upset,' she said. ^ I don't know
what I said. Percival, we cannot leave the
poor wretch lying there.'

The Rector was thinking: the same
thing.

Besides,' she continued, * I am only
frightened, not hurt. If you send for the
police we shall have to give evidence.'

She spoke wisely. To-morrow they were
to start for sunnier lands. Was it worth
while delaying their departure for the sake
of giving this drunken wretch a taste of the
treadmill ?

1 will hear his account of himself,' said
Percival sternly. ' Wake up !' he continued,
shaking the tramp's shoulder. All the
waking up he seemed capable of was limited
to an uneasy grunt.

Carry him up to the house — it is not far

suggested Philippe. ' Leave him In one of
the outhouses until he recovers.'

The Rector could devise no better plan.
He threw his fallen foe, who proved to be a
slight attenuated creature, over his shoulder
and bore him to The Hollies. By Philippa's
directions he placed him on the floor of the
tool-house. There was no lock to the door,
but as the man gave no evidence of an
immediate return to consciousness, that
mattered little.

'We must try and revive him,' said
Percival, rather nervously.

Come in doors, I will ore something.'

He followed her through the French
casement of the drawing-room. He was
beginning to wonder what had taken her
abroad that night, and intended to lecture
her on her rashness ; but as soon as they
entered the room she left him, to fetch the
remedies he concluded.

More than ten minutes passed before she
returned. The Rector grew uneasy and
fidgety. He did not like to think of that
senseless tramp outside. He blamed himself
for the vengeful force he had put into his

arms. A horrible thing, indeed, If he, a
clergyman, had caused a man's death !
Where was Philippa ? He would wait for
her no longer. At that moment the door
opened, and his bride entered.

Was she mad ? Why at this particular
moment did she come to him like this ?
Brief as her absence had been, she had found
time to make what can only be called a grand
toilet. She wore the richest of the many
rich dresses which had just been sent from
London. There were diamonds in her ears ;
diamonds on her white uncovered neck. Her
beautiful long round arms were bare, or but
partially veiled by thin, delicate lace, and a
blood-red flower burned in her black hair.
A queen ! No queen with charms to compare
with Philippa's has yet graced a throne !
So, with her maddening beauty brightened
by all that art can do, she entered the room,
and after laying on the table what seemed
to be a small bundle of some kind, with
a firm quick step she came towards her
lover.

A cry of astonishment, of delight, sprang
from him. She placed her soft white fingers

on his lips, drew him to a low chair, and
motioned him to be seated.

He obeyed. She knelt beside him, her
face on a level with his own. A strange
sweet perfume emanated from her garments.
She wreathed her warm white arms around
his neck. She kissed him on his brow, his
eyes, his mouth. She drew her face a little
away from his, and her dark lustrous eyes
gazed Into his with wild rapture. He forgot
everything save the glorious being who knelt
beside him — all save his love for her, her
love for him.

He returned her caresses with passion.
Her magnificent bosom rose and fell with
her quick breathing. His cheek brushed her
satiny shoulder. He was In a dream of Intoxicating
bliss — and yet faintly through It he
seemed to hear his mother's words, ' blind
unholy passion !'

Perclval, Perclval !' murmured the woman.

You love me ?'

His answer was not given in words.

^ I am worth loving,' she whispered.

Such love Is worth a sacrifice. Percival, It
is worth more. It is worth a crime !'

Even then he returned her embrace.

Perclval, listen. Love, kiss me and
listen. That man outside — he is my felon
husband.'

A sharp fierce cry broke from him. His
very lips turned ashen. Yet still he held her
to him.

They told me he was dead — yet he lives.
No matter. Shall our love be wrecked by
him?'

A cold sweat broke out all over the man.
Yet he turned not from her kiss.

Dearest she went on in her flute-like
voice. ' How shall it be ? Shall we fly like
cowards to another land ? I am rich, you
know.'

He shivered from head to foot. Some
strange instinct made him turn his eyes to the
little bundle she had placed on the table. The
woman followed his ofaze.

No she said, with a low, wild laugh.
No need to fly. Percival, I would have
done it alone, but I knew we should love the
better if we sinned together. Come.'

Still holding his hand, she rose. Percival
Blake staggered to his feet. He swayed to

VOL. II. ^o

and fro like a drunken man, and grasped
the table for support. The woman smiled in
his face.

I am worth it,' she whispered, as she unwound
a large handkerchief and disclosed a
stoppered bottle.

It will be painless she murmured. * It
will be like going to sleep. Come, dearest'

She placed the handkerchief and the
bote in one of his nerveless hands ; the
other she took in her own. She led him,
as one leads a blind man, to the casement.
She opened it and the keen fresh wintry air
cut into the perfumed atmosphere of the room
like a knife.

On the threshold she paused and clung to
him in an almost threshed embrace. The
man quivered beneath it. Then, hand in
hand, they walked down the garden path.
They went swiftly, although the man moved
as one in a trance.

She led him to the door of the outhouse.
It was open. She looked into his set, drawn
face. Her burning fingers tightened round
his icy-cold hand.

Your hand trembles, sweet love,' she

said, and therewith took the handkerchief and
the bottle from him.

She passed in, and whilst he stood as one
spellbound, leaning for support against the
doorpost, she began feeling about for the
recumbent figure of her husband.

In a minute she was at her lover's side again.
She shook his arm fiercely.

Gone ! He has gone !' she cried. * Seek
him ! He cannot be far off!'

Her words, her touch, seemed to break the
spell. With a low cry Percival Blake fell
upon his knees, and lifting up his hands,
thanked God, whose mercy had willed that
he should not be a murderer in very deed as
well as in thought. Then the humbled man
bowed his head, and sob after sob broke forth.

The woman stood like a statue. A dreary
look of hopeless despair settled on her pallid
face. Not a muscle moved — not even when
Percival Blake rose to his feet and confronted
her with eyes full of horror and
aversion.

Temptress ! Fiend !' he whispered. ' I
have another prayer to make — that we may
never meet again.'

30—2

He turned away and went swiftly down
the path to the gate by which he had entered.
It was but a few steps away. Before
he passed through it he cast one look back.
Philippa stood as he had left her, tall and
erect ; her white face, neck and arms gleaming
in the wintry moonlight. Then, even
then, the old fascination struggled for
supremacy — all but mastered him. He took
a backward step. Had she made one sign
he must have rushed to her side. But she
moved neither hand nor foot. By a supreme
effort he wrenched himself away, passed
through the gate, closed it behind him, and
rushed out into the night — anywhere ! anywhere
!

For two or three hours he wandered
about aimlessly ; then, scarcely knowing how,
found himself in Chelston churchyard. He
carried a key which opened the little door of
the church. He entered the building and
groped his way to the altar steps. He threw
himself on the cold stones and lay there in
contrition and abasement until five o'clock in
the morning. Then, a humbled man, he crept to
the Rectory and from sheer exhaustion slept.

Terrified tearful faces met him when he
arose. As gently as they could, people told
him that an hour ago Mrs. Russell's old
servant had found her mistress in her own
room, lying on her own bed, dressed as one
going to a ball, but quite cold and dead. Ina
horrified whisper they added it was feared
she had committed suicide.

This is the story of that year in a man's
life which must be swept away from his
memory before he can call himself happy.

(A SOLICITOR'S STORY.)

I, AND I alone of all living men, know the
truth of it ; and although In these pages I
slightly alter the details, and change the
names of the actors in that sad tragedy, my
narration of the facts will be sufficiently accurate
to enable anyone who was interested in
the case to know to what I refer.

On the morning of — say, the 20th of
February, 1870, I reached my office at the
usual hour, half-past nine o'clock ; and having
perused my letters, summoned my confidential
clerk, Mr. Wilson.

Are Mr. Northwick's papers ready ?' I
asked, as he entered my room.

Quite ready,' replied Mr. Wilson ; who,

guessing what I wanted, had brought the
documents with him.

He placed them in due order before me ;
and after glancing through them, and satisfying
myself as to the manner in which they
had been prepared, I sat awaiting the appearance
of the gentleman for whose signature
the papers were ready.

Roland North wick was not only a good
client, but a dear friend of mine. His father
before him had borne the same relations tome.
As my age lay about midway between the
two generations, it had been my fortune to be
able to stand on equal terms of friendship
with both father and son, so that upon the
death of the former, the management of all
the legal business connected with the estate
continued in my hands as before.

The particular business which now engaged
me on Roland's behalf was a very pleasant
task to me. He was to be married in a few
days, and the match was in every way a
suitable and desirable one. Miss Margrave,
the lady of his choice, was well-born, well-towered,
and, moreover, a beautiful and
amiable girl. Everything was going welland

smoothly — no hitches In the settlements,
no unpleasantness with friends on either
side. In all human probability the union
would bring happiness to the contracting
parties.

I was very fond of Roland ; but having
known him from a boy, did not hesitate to
lecture him on certain things connected with
his bachelor life which had, from time to time,
come to my knowledge. Yet many of these
were only the faults common to young men,
and I felt convinced that marriage, and marriage
with a girl he really loved, would lead
him so far away from the errors of youth
that there would be little chance of his returning
to them. In truth, I had so high an
opinion of the young man, that I would not
have hesitated to intrust my own daughter's
happiness to his keeping.

He possessed a large property, and as
there were several things connected with his
estate which I wished settled before his marriage
and departure on the long tour he
purposed making with his bride, I was very
busy with his affairs. This morning he had
promised to call at my office, about ten o'clock.

to sign several documents. Later on, I knew
he intended to leave town ; so, as the papers
were of importance, I felt much annoyed
when half-past ten came and he had not yet
made his appearance.

I looked over the papers once more, then
said to my clerk :

Perhaps Mr. Northwick misunderstood
me and thinks I am coming to him. I will
take a cab and go to Jermyn Street. If he
should call, ask him to wait until I return.'

Roland Northwick lived in chambers in
Jermyn Street. His town-house had been
let furnished since his father's death. Now,
I was glad to think, the bachelor's chambers
would be given up, and the house occupied
by its owner and his young wife as soon as
they thought fit to return from their Continental
tour.

In a few minutes I alighted at No. — ,
Jermyn Street. Even as my hand was on
the bell, the door was suddenly thrown open,
and some one rushing out nearly threw me
down. It was Roland's groom, a respectable
man, whom I knew well by sight. His face
was blanched with terror, his looks were wild.

He seemed to recognise me, and gasped,
Ob. God ! My master ! Upstairs !' Then
shouting, ' Ponce! Police !' he rushed madly-down
the street.

I ran upstairs to Roland's rooms. Outside
the bedroom-door crouched a terrified
servant-maid, with horror in her eyes. Inside,
on the bed, lay Roland Northwick, apparently
fast asleep, but In a sleep that would never be
broken ; for a felon hand had driven a knife
deep into his heart!

It was a sight I have never forgotten — a
sight I never shall forget. Even after all
these years It comes to me in my dreams.
Had the murdered man been a total stranger
to me, that sight would have haunted me ;
but as one of my dearest friends lay there,
what wonder If the shock almost deprived me
of my senses ? I was unable for the time to
realize the extent of the calamity, and stood
gazing at the frightful sight as motionless and
almost as powerless as the form stretched In
front of me. Then came the rush of feet, and
the room filled with people. Policemen
hustled me from the bedside, and I heard
the words, * Make way for the doctor !' I

saw a gentleman bend over and examine the
corpse ; then he shook his head, and I knew
that every lingering hope must be dispelled,
and that Roland Northwick lay dead before
me. Murdered as he slept — but by whom ?

As I stood by the dressing-table, resting
my hand upon it for support, I placed it
accidentally upon a morsel of paper. Why, I
knew not ; but my fingers closed on it, and,
mechanically, I read a few words written
there. I am sure at the time I was quite
unable to grasp the meaning, but the idea
must have come to me somehow that the
substance of that letter, or whatever it was,
ought not to be exposed to every curious eye.
This must have been the reason why I folded
the paper and placed it in my pocket.

Shortly afterwards the room was cleared,
and the necessary steps taken to sift the
dreadful mystery.

The inquest opened the next day, and,
after some formal evidence, was adjourned.
The doctor deposed that Roland had been
killed by a stab with a knife, the point of
which had penetrated his heart, so that death
must have been instantaneous. The groom

Stated that, according to custom, he had
called in Jermyn Street for his master's
orders at nine o'clock in the morning. He
was informed that Mr. North wick had not
yet risen. He had then waited an hour,
and, as his master did not make his appearance,
had rapped at the bedroom-door without
getting any response. At half-past ten
he knocked again without success. Shortly
afterwards, fearing his master, who was
generally an early riser, must be ill, he had
ventured to open the door, and so made the
ghastly discovery. I stated the little I knew
about it, and the inquest was then adjourned
for several days. I should mention that, in
the doctor's opinion, the murder must have
been committed between eight and nine
o'clock in the morning.

At the adjourned inquest fresh evidence
came forward. Roland's watch and chain
were found to be missing. This seemed to
show clearly that robbery had been the object
of the crime. The knife was produced. It
was no assassin's dagger, or weapon a robber
would be likely to choose. It was simply a
short-bladed, white-handled carving-knife,

such as are designed to carve poultry or
game. Use had worn it to a sharp point,
and a strong hand had found it an easy task
to drive it up to the very handle in poor
Roland's breast. It afforded no clue whatever
likely to lead to the detection of the
wretch who had wielded it. The maker's
name had long been worn away, and there
must have been millions of similar knives inexistence.


The servant at the chambers next gave
evidence. At first she roundly stated that
by no possibility could anyone have entered
the house that morning without her knowledge
; but, under pressure, admitted that
whilst cleaning the doorsteps, between eight
and nine o'clock, she had crossed the road to
say a few words to another servant, leaving
the door wide open during her absence. How
long had she been away ? At first she only
confessed to a minute ; but a series of judicious
questions proved her to have been
absent from a quarter to half an hour. She
was sure no one had entered the house,
although she admitted that she had gone
into the opposite house to inspect some new

article of finery which her friend had purchased.


This was sufficient. The murderer had
waited his time, entered the open and deserted
door, probably intent upon robbery ;
then, having struck the fatal blow, had walked
away, unnoticed and unsuspected. It was
all clear. The jury returned a verdict of
Wilful murder by some person or persons
unknown.' Government offered the usual
reward of a hundred pounds, the heirs of the
dead man increased this to five hundred
pounds, and Scotland Yard was all agog.

I need not enlarge upon the terrible time
I had during those days. The anguish of
Miss Musgrave, who insisted upon seeing
me and hearing all the harrowing details
from my lips. The genuine sorrow I myself
felt at the loss of my friend. The utter
sadness and dreariness of the funeral, which
took the place of the anticipated gay wedding.
The inquiries of well-meaning but
inquisitive friends. The dreadful sight that
was ever before my eyes. All these combined
to render me almost unfit for business.
Indeed, what I should have done without

the assistance of my confidential clerk, Mr.
Wilson, I cannot tell. He rendered me
yeoman's service at that time, and I resolved
to repay him when an opportunity presented
itself.

James Wilson was a man of about thirty-six
; gentlemanly, sedate, and trustworthy.
He had now been with me some three years,
and I placed every confidence in him, and
respected his great ability. Originally he
had practised on his own account, as a
solicitor — somewhere in the West of England,
I believe ; but being one of those many men
who are better off as servants than as masters,
he had managed to come to grief over that
precipice that yawns before all young solicitors
— transactions with speculative builders.
After his failure he was strongly recommended
to me as fit to fill a responsible
post, and I installed him as my principal
clerk.

Although a quiet, reticent man, I soon
discovered that he was well educated. I
knew nothing of him in his private capacity.
The few well-meaning advances, in a social
way, which I had at first made to him, had

been respectfully but decidedly declined, so
that when office hours were over he went
his own way. I did not even know where
he lived. For all I knew it might be in an
attic; but as he was the first to reach the
office and the last to leave it, it was no
concern of mine. He was an admirable
clerk ; but at first I was distressed by the
melancholy look he always wore — a look as
though the world had not been kind to him
but after a time I ceased to notice it ; or
concluded that, in spite of his unhappy looks,
my clerk was as comfortable as the majority
of people.

The press of a professional business always
seems to come when you are least able to
cope with it. It was so at the time when
the terrible event happened. Leaving everything
connected with Roland Northwick out
of the question, I had more work than I
could do. Wilson was my right hand, left
hand, head and all, at the time. He worked
as I believe no clerk ever yet worked, and
his pale face told of nights spent in my
service. I was afraid the strain would be
too great for his rather delicate-looking

frame ; but he assured me his health was
good, even if his appearance beheld it.

It was well I had with me some one whom
I could trust to attend to my work, as, in
truth, for some days I could think of little
else than Roland North wick, and wonder,
as all the world was wondering, who killed
him.

Robbery, said the general public : murdered
by a common criminal for the sake of plunder.
Robbery, said Scotland Yard, and easily to
be traced — the watch and chain will give us
the clue. Robbery was Mr. Wilson's opinion
when I talked the matter over with him.
Robbery, said all poor Roland's friends, save
one. I alone knew that robbery had not
been the murderer's aim — that if the watch
and chain had been taken it was but to
throw the hunters on a false scent — that
the man who struck that deadly blow, struck
it for vengeance, and vengeance only. Not
that I knew a man in the world who was
Roland Northwick's enemy. Gay, pleasant
Roland, with a smile, a kind word, and,
when needed, an open purse for everyone.
But as I smoothed out that slip of paper,

VOL. II. 31

which I had picked up from his dressing-table,
I found these words :

My husband knows all. I could not
help It. Beware.'

The writing was, of course, a woman's :
this was, doubtless, why in that dreadful
moment my confused brain had led me to
conceal the words whose meaning at that
time I could not grasp. The first thing that
struck me, as I examined the paper when
alone, was the peculiar character of the writing.
It was, evidently, undisguised, but it
appeared as if the writer had striven to
acquire a certain sort of originality in the
formation of her letters. The long letters,
being unusually long, gave an elegant, if
rather peculiar, look to the handwriting.
The paper was a half sheet of creamlaid
note — torn off, perhaps, to prevent any name
or address appearing — and I noticed that,
good as the writing was, it was rather
tremulous in places, as though written by
an aged woman, or by one in great haste,
or suffering from some powerful emotion.
The paper had been twisted into a knot,
and then addressed, so there was no envelope

for It, and the note, from the outside
appearance, must have been delivered by-hand.


As I sat with that paper in front of me,
I knew for certain that the man who had
slain Roland Northvvick in his sleep was
the husband of the woman who had penned
those words of warnings. Roland had lived
as many another man lives, taking his pleasure
where he found It, and counting not
the cost. His life, I feared, had been shed
to appease the vengeance of an Injured
husband. He was no libertine ; but he was
young, and few young men can resist temptation
when it assails them in the shape of a
fair woman.

I may have been wrong — I was wrong in
the course I took, but I was fully resolved
that the letter which I alone had seen should
not become public property — that it should
not serve as a theme for the newspapers to
enlarge upon and to point out in unctuous
paragraphs what the wages of sin, etc., must
be. Poor Roland's murder had rang through
England, and the mind of the public had
been greatly stirred by it. It was unprecedented

that a man should be killed in
broad daylight, in the centre of a populous
neighbourhood, and that the assassin should
escape scot-free. Already the papers had
begun to sneer at the incompetency of the
detectives, and to hint that a change In the
present system was desirable. Moreover, I
was anxious that no word of what I suspected
should reach Miss Musgrave's ears :
nothing that should lead her to think that
aught save robbery had been the murderer's
object. So I determined to keep the matter
secret until the inquest was over. Then I
sent for the detective in charge of the case.
I was as eager as anyone that the guilty
should be brought to justice, so lost no time
in endeavouring to put the police on the right
scent.

Mr. Sharpe,' I said, ' you are doing all that
can be done, I hope.'

Everything, sir ; and I hoped to have
caught him before this. But, strange to say,
we can find no trace of the stolen property.
I am afraid it's in the melting-pot.'

Before you go any further,' I said. ' I
want you to disabuse your mind of the idea

that the murder was committed for the sake
of plunder.'

The detective smiled, as much as to say,
Everyone thinks he knows better than we
do.'

If I wanted to earn this large reward,' I
continued, ' I should ascertain all about jNIr.
Northwick's habits — what acquaintances he
had of which his friends knew nothing — any
ties he might have formed. In fact, I will
be candid with you, Mr. Sharpe — I know
that a day or two before he died my
poor friend received a letter warning him to
beware of some woman's husband. I can tell
you no more than this, but it ought to be
enough.'

You should have said so before the
coroner, sir.'

Yes — and given the guilty man full warning.
Now he suspects nothing, and should
easily be discovered.'

This reasoning of mine was so cogent that
Mr. Sharpe was forced to agree with it. 1
could give him no more information, so he
departed, certain of claiming the reward in a
week's time. I heard no more for some days.

save the usual statement that the police had
a clue and were following it.

When I saw the detective again he was
quite crestfallen.

I have made every inquiry,' he said, ' but
I cannot find a word of scandal against Mr.
North wick. I think, sir, you are making a
mistake.'

'I am not I replied. 'The blow was
struck in revenge, and the man who struck it
is probably in London now.'

But it was no use. The reward was never
claimed, and poor Roland's murder went to
swell the already long list of undiscovered
and unavenged crimes. After a while a still
more appalling tragedy drove it from the
public mind, and only those closely interested
continued to think of it. I had done all I
could, so I locked the mysterious slip of paper
in my secretaire, wondering whether fate
or chance would some day reveal the writer's
name to me. It appeared to me that the
whole affair had been terribly mismanaged ;
as with such information as I had been able
to give Sharpe, suspicion, at least, should
have fallen on some one. However closely

poor Roland might have veiled any indiscretion
of his, surely the skill of Scotland
Yard should have laid it bare. There must
have been meetings — there must have been
servants who carried letters or messages —
there must have been some persons who
could throw light on the affair ; and yet not
the slightest trace of the intrigue which I suspected
could Inspector Sharpe's skill discover.
I must confess that, as I placed the paper in a
safe drawer, I was inclined to agree with the
newspapers that a change was needful in our
detective arrangements.

Five years passed by. The grass had
grown long on Roland Northwick's grave —
his memory had vanished from all but a few
hearts. If his name were casually mentioned,
men would say : * Ah, yes, Roland North-wick
! He committed suicide, or was killed,
or something — I forget now what it was.'
Everybody save myself had given up the
hope of seeing his murderer hanged, but I
had a conviction that the piece of paper lying
in my desk would some day or another bring
the guilty man to justice.

The five years had been very uneventful
to me. I was growing greyer and richer,
and was beginning to look forward to taking
life somewhat easier ; but when a man is in
the swim of a large professional business, he
finds great difficulty in reaching the shores of
retirement. During these five years I had
once more drawn up settlements for Miss
Musgrave. Time had healed her wounds,
and she had now been married about twelvemonths.
I did not blame her for forgetting
if she did forget. With the young, no
sorrow can be eternal. She had mourned
Roland long and truly, and I was glad that
her bright eyes were not destined to be
always saddened with the memory of the
man she loved first.

My trusted clerk, Mr. James Wilson, was
still with me. He was grave, reserved, and
correct as ever. Perhaps even more pale,
unhappy, and delicate in appearance ; but he
never complained of his health, and as he
worked early and late to my benefit, I could
only suppose his constitution was better than
it looked. I never saw such a man to work :
certainly no man not working for himself.

No sooner was one thing finished than
another was commenced ; and I may safely
say that, during those five years, except on
business, he had not been absent from his
desk for an hour. He reminded me of a
machine, wound up and sent into the world
to work with unerring accuracy until the
wheels and the spring at last broke down.

Once or twice I had raised his salary. He
had accepted the increase with quiet, but
not effusive thanks, as one who knew he had
fully earned it. As he was now so important
to me in my business, and as he knew my
clients almost as well as I knew them myself,
I had once more gone out of my way to
endeavour to create some sort of friendship
in private life between us. I invited him—
indeed, pressed him — to come home and
spend a Sunday with me at Richmond. He
declined in his usual polite way ; and upon
my telling him my reason for urging it
was that I thought men who spent so many
hours in business together should not be
entire strangers out of the office bounds, he
said :

You must really excuse me, Mr. Maitland.

I have visited no one for years. I
am never happy in company. Indeed, I
dare say by this time you have noticed that
I have peculiarities of my own, and am quite
unfitted for society.'

I was more annoyed at this rebuff than I
cared to say, and resolved that, for the
future, he should go his own way, live his
own life, and I would trouble no more about
it.

Yet at the time of which I now write —
five years after North wick's murder — I began
to realize the fact that I was not quite so
young as I was ; so, after much consideration,
and, perhaps, not altogether heedless
of what appeared just, I decided that the
hour had come to offer Wilson a partnership.
He had now been with me eight
years. His conduct and general bearing
had been irreproachable. He was a capital
lawyer. His address was good. My clients
liked him. His transactions were all strictly
honourable. I felt I should be happier with
the business in the hands of a man whom I
so thoroughly knew and trusted, than were
I to take as a partner one unproved — although

the latter course might be more
advantageous in a pecuniary sense.

I told Wilson of my good intentions towards
himself. His paie face flushed, and,
for once, I saw him manifest signs of real
feeling — so much so, that I began to hope,
that, standing on terms of equality, we might
be more companionable. Judge my surprise
when he said :

I am really much obliged to you, Mr.
Maitland — deeply grateful for this proof of
confidence — but I regret to say I must decline
your offer.'

Decline it, Mr. Wilson ! You must be
mad.'

Perhaps I am — perhaps I am philosophical
— I told you I was peculiar. I am,
although you won't believe it a restless man,
and I know if I were bound in partnership
with you I should want to leave you before
three months were over. Now that I can
quit you at any time I choose, I stay on,
and, probably, shall continue to do so if you
wish to keep me.'

The man was an unsatisfactory riddle ;
but I did not like to see him throwing

away his chances In this fashion, so I
said :

But, Wilson, have you no belongings — no
family dependent upon you ?'

I have no near relatives,' he replied.

Why don't you get married ? You would
find life a great deal happier with a nice
pleasant wife to look after you.'

^ I shall never get married — women and I
don't agree.'

^ Then you are quite determined to refuse
my offer ?'

'Quite, Mr. Maitland. Thanks to your
generosity, I have a larger income than I
want, and am free from all business anxiety :
so I could not be better off. But will you
allow me to shake your hand and thank you,
once and for all, for your invariable kindness
to me ?'

I said no more, but held out my hand.
Wilson grasped it, and then returned to his
desk and his drafts as calmly as though
nothing unusual had happened, and he had
not deliberately thrown away the chance of a
lifetime.

Some months after this conversation with

my extraordinary clerk, Sir William Jarvis,
an old client of mine, died. I was summoned
to attend his funeral, and to read the will
afterwards. The day before I went down
to his country-house, I thought it would be
as well if I looked through the draft of his
will, in order to be familiar with its provisions.
His box was brought in, and I soon
put my hand upon the document I wanted.
It was dated In 1867 — the year Wilson came
to me — and the draft was in my clerk's handwriting.
It was a voluminous document,
consisting of a good many sheets of paper,
joined together at the corner. To the front
page was affixed a slip of white paper, bearing
sundry memoranda — also in Vv'^ilson's
handwriting — suggesting, most likely, a few
alterations to be made if I approved of
them.

As I bent this piece of paper back, to read
the words it concealed, I saw writing on the
other side of It, and my heart stood still as I
knew that the writhe was Identical with the
writing of those words which had been
stamped upon my brain since the day of
Roland Northwick's death.

With trembling hands I detached the shep
of paper, opened my secretaire, and laid it
side by side with the note of warning. I
had been deceived by no fancied resemblance
; the meriting was the same, and so
peculiar was the penmanship that I felt convinced
that no chance could have produced
these two specimens from different persons.
True, the writing on the newly found paper
was better and firmer than that on the other ;
but I compared letter with letter and found
them exactly alike in their formation. The
hand that wrote one wrote the other ; and
as the two slips of paper lay before me I felt
that the murderer of Roland North wick had
had his day. Then, wide professional instinct,
I sat down to think calmly over my
discovery. The paper which I had so unexpectedly
found contained what appeared to
be a portion of Byron's ' When wee two
parted.' Probably the writer was an admirer
of the poet, and had transcribed it for Tier
own pleasure. The paper had been torn,
lengthways, down the centre ; so that only
the first halves of the lines were left. But
this was more than enough — I could have

sworn to the identity of the writing had only
two letters appeared.

Now came the difficulty. How could I
connect the two papers ? What theory could
I form ? Here, through an extraordinary
chance, was the clue starting from my very
office. Here It had been lying for five
years. Now that it was within my hands,
whither would it lead ? Could it be possible
that Wilson was in any way mixed up in the
affair ? I shuddered at the thought, and felt
inclined to dismiss it as preposterous. At
first I even contemplated asking him pointblank
whose writing it might be on the back
of the slip of paper he had used ; but recognising
the necessity for extreme caution, I
decided not to do so. I endeavoured to
throw my memory back to the time when
Sir William's will was made. Looking
through my old diaries, I found that about
that date we had a press of business in
hand ; but I could recollect nothing more
than taking Sir William's instructions, and,
afterwards, seeing him execute the will. I
felt I must endeavour to get some more information
before I took any decisive steps ;

SO, pinning the two slips of paper together,
I placed them In my pocket book and sent
for Mr. Wilson. I was quite composed when
he entered, and, running over the sheets of the
draft, asked :

Do you remember the circumstances
under which you drew this up ? I ask, as
there are several little things in it I should
have worded differently.'

Wilson took the paper in his hand, looked
at the date and replied :

It was one of the first things I did for sou,
before I had quite caught your style. I remember,
as we were very busy, I drafted it
at home, and you altered a good deal of it
before it was fair copied.'

Then this fact was pretty well established ;
the paper, whoever wrote It, came from
Wilson's house. I saw clearly that my first
proceeding must be to ascertain everything I
could respecting hi$ antecedents and private
life. I looked up my letters of 1867, and
found from them that Wilson had been recommended
to me by Forbes and Thwarted
of Bristol, a firm of high standing. Having
ascertained this much, I went in search of a

private inquiry agent. I hated the idea of
having to spy on one of my household, as it
were, but the serious nature of the case gave
me no option.

Can you attend to a bit of business forme
?' I said. ' A few private inquiries I
want made.'

Certainly, sir replied the agent, producing
his note-book ; ' we are rather slack
just now.'

I want you to go to Bristol to-night.
Inquire there of Messrs. Forbes and
Thwarted, solicitors, from what part of the
world James Wilson came. He was bankrupt
in 1866, I believe, and they were concerned.'


The heads of my instructions were rapidly
jotted down.

Then you will go to the place at which
he originally lived, and find out all you can
about him. His connections, private life,
etc'

The agent nodded.

Then you will ascertain his private address
in London, and get all particulars you can of
his history since he came to town. As soon
VOL. n. 32

as you know enough, write me, and I will
call for your report

Case of defalcation, I suppose ?' said the
man, closing his note-book.

Something of the sort,' I replied, and
wished him good-morning.

I did not choose to take anyone into my
confidence this time. I would get all the
links together before I put the chain into
other hands.

In five days' time the agent sent me word
that his report was ready. I had been
anxiously awaiting it, so hastened to hear what
he had discovered.

There was a good deal in it that was of no
consequence whatever ; but the detective had
done his duty in getting the fullest information.
Sifting out all extraneous matter, I
learnt as follows.

James Wilson was of respectable family.
He had been well educated, then articled to
a firm of solicitors. Afterwards he set up in
practice at a rising watering-place on the
Bristol Channel, where, as I have already
stated, he became involved in some unfortunate
building transactions, failing in consequence.

He had married, whilst in practice,
the daughter of a well-to-do retired tradesman
; but as several members of his wife's
family lost considerable sums of money by his
failure, they became completely estranged.
Wilson came to London in 1867, taking
lodgings in Chelsea. His wife died on
February 22nd, 1870. They were apparently
a happy and much attached couple.
They had no children, and since her death
Wilson had continued to occupy the same
rooms.

And,' added my informant, with a lurking
smile, ' I find that since he has been in
London he has held the post of confidential
clerk to Mr. Maitland, solicitor, of Bedford
Row.'

Thank you,' said Mr. Maitland. ' I am
much obliged to you. It has been painful tome
to institute these inquiries, but I was
bound to set my mind at rest about Mr.
Wilson.'

Although I had gained lite direct evidence,
my suspicions gathered strength.
Impossible as the idea seemed, the testimony
of the handwriting proclaimed that James

Wilson must in some way be connected with
the perpetrator of the foul crime. At least,
he would be able to identify the writer of the
message. My agent had ascertained that his
wife had died on February 22nd, 1870 — two
days after the blow was struck. As I thought
the matter over, the fact of Wilson not having
mentioned his wife's death at the time, and
his misleading words to me on a recent occasion,
which had made me conclude he was
unmarried, tended to make it appear possible
that the writer of that warning note was Mrs.
Wilson herself. Even the tremulous nature
of the handwriting would be accounted for, as
she must have been at that moment lying on
her death-bed. How Roland North wick
became entangled with James Wilson's wife
was a matter of little consequence now. Detective
skill must unravel all that, and no
doubt drag a painful scandal to light. Forme,
at present, it was sufficient to know that
could I prove the writer of those two papers
lying in my pocket to be James Wilson's wife,
I had enough ground to justify his arrest as
the murderer.

This identification must be my first task.

I determined to make no delay. The thought
that for years I had been in daily contact and
communication with the cold-blooded murderer
of one of my dearest friends was to me
horrible. With this dreadful suspicion hanging
over him, I felt it almost impossible to
breathe the same air with Wilson, much less
to transact my usual business matters with
him. I felt that I might betray myself in his
presence, and, with the acute suspicion which
such a crime must engender, he would guess
what was passing through my mind, and fly
from justice. I left the office, stating that I
should not return that day, and the next morning
sent Wilson a letter, saying that an urgent
private matter had called me into the country.
The link that joined the two others I must
have before proceeding any further. I knew
the name of the church in which Wilson had
been married ; the object of my journey was
to visit it. I inspected the register of marriages,
and, knowing the date of the ceremony,
had little difficulty in lighting upon the signatures
of James Wilson and Adelaide Fletcher.
The resemblance in the writing here was even
closer to the warning message than that of the

lines of poetry I had so fortunately found.
Perhaps, from the emotion natural to a young
girl when signing her maiden name for the
last time, the strokes were tremulous, even as
from another cause they were tremulous in
those fatal words that now lay side-beside
with the bride's signature — ' My husband
knows all. I could not help it. Beware !'

With all my lingering doubts — with all the
hopes I cherished as to Wilson's innocence
dispelled, I hastened back to town, nerving
myself to perform a harrowing duty the next
day — the duty of denouncing as the murderer
of Roland Northwick the man who for eight
years had been my constant companion and
trusted associate in business.

Late as the hour was when I reached
Haddington, I drove straight to Inspector
Sharpe's house. Accustomed to surprises at
all hours, that astute gentleman expressed
no astonishment at seeing me, but awaited
patiently'' any communication I had to make
for his benefit. Yet for once, at least, in the
course of his checkered career I believe he
was taken aback.

If you will be at my office at eleven

o'clock precisely tomorrow morning, I will
point out to you the man who murdered
Roland North wick.'
The inspector started.
Tell me where to find him,' he said,
and the handcuffs shall be on his wrists tonight.'


I hesitated. Something restrained me from
telling him to whom my suspicions pointed.
It was not mercy ; but I wished to give
Wilson one chance of explaining the thing
which had led me to accuse him of the
crime.

No,' I replied. ' I cannot even tell you
his name at this moment. I must manage
matters in my own way. He will come to
my office tomorrow, utterly unsuspecting. I
will then point him out to you, and you can
take the proper course.'

Inspector Sharpe promised obedience to
my instructions, so I left him to dream, no
doubt, of the reward he might claim tomorrow.


Tired as I was with the day's work, I slept
but little that night. I was drawing mental
pictures of the painful proceeding of tomorrow.

Then, between waking and sleeping, a
wild thought took possession of me. I fancied
that from some reason or another Wilson
had divined my suspicions, and that on the
morrow he would be absent. So strongly did
this idea impress me, that I actually rose,
determined to go to the detective at once,
reveal all I knew, and let the arrest be made
immediately, so that justice should not be
defeated. Then, as my senses returned tome,
I saw how utterly impossible it was that
Wilson could suspect anything, and, lying
down once more, I resolved to let matters
follow in the train I had designed.

Still, it was not without relief that I saw,
upon entering my office in the morning, my
confidential clerk at his usual post. He
saluted me with his invariable calm politeness.
For the life of me, I could not return
that greeting ; but, averting my face, hurried
into my own room, the entrance to which lay
through his. I opened my letters in a
mechanical way, in the present excited state
of my mind giving little heed to their contents.
I could think only of one thing — was
I not wrong, after all ? Could that quiet.

self-possessed, gentle-spoken man, now sitting
within a few feet of me, be guilty of one of
the foulest and most dastardly crimes ever
perpetrated ? I began now almost to wish
that my fear of the preceding night had been
well founded, and his flight had given me
assurance of his guilt.

In a few minutes the door of my office
opened and Wilson entered. He had a
number of papers in his hand, and running
them through, said :

If you are at liberty now, Mr. Maitland,
there are several things about which I should
like to consult you.'

I shuddered as he spoke ; but as he stood
there with his impassible exterior — his mind,
evidently, bent only on business — it seemed
absurd to suppose that this man was the
being who, with hellish vengeance in his
heart, crept up the staircase to Roland's
bedroom ; that those white fingers, holding
now a harmless pen, were the same which
closed round the handle of the knife that
pierced my poor friend's bosom.

But the time for hesitation and uncertainty
was gone by. In an hour Sharpe would be

here, eager for his prey ; and until he came I
determined that Mr. James Wilson should
not be a moment out of my sight.

I rose and walked to the office door, locked
it, and placed the key In my pocket. Then
I resumed my seat, and motioned Wilson to
one near me. My unusual proceedings, I
fancied, troubled him — he turned a shade paler
If that were possible, but he said nothing.

Many a time afterwards. In cold blood, I
have wondered at my folly at thus, of my
own free will, cooping myself up with a man
whom I suspected to be a murderer ; 'a man
who might have made preparations against a
surprise of this nature, and to whom my life
might have been as nothing. But I was the
stronger, although the older, man of the two.
Wilson, although tall, was slim, almost to
thinness, and I was certain that in a hand-to-hand
struggle I could overpower him. I felt
disgust and horror at my companion, but not
fear. He looked at me Inquiringly.
1 ' Mr. Wilson,' I said, * some time ago you
led me to understand you were unmarried.
I have since ascertained that your wife died
in February, 1870.'

Wilson, whose acuteness told him that I
did not make this assertion with the primary
object of reproaching him for concealing the
true state of his domestic affairs from me,
made a simple gesture of assent.

I find,' I continued, ' that your wife died
on the 22 nd of February, 1870 — two days
after the murder of Roland Northwick.'

As I spoke the last words he knew what
was coming — I could see it in the man's face.

And,' I concluded, ' from certain facts
which have come to my knowledge, I have
decided that you, even if you did not strike
the blow yourself, must know the murderer.'

Wilson rose. He was perfectly calm, and
speaking in his usual quiet voice, said :

Are you mad, Mr. Maitland, to make
such an accusation — against me, of all men in
the world ? Without troubling to deny it, I
ask you, as a lawyer and man of business,
what possible motive could I have had for
committing such a crime ?*

Th day before he was killed, Roland
Northwick received a letter of warning from
a woman — a woman whose husband he had
doubtless wronged. Till a few days ago

her name was unknown. Now, from the
similarity of the curious writing to that of
another specimen which I have ascertained
was written by your wife, I know that the
warning was sent by her. James Wilson,
you wretched murderer ! Your hour has
come! I have already denounced you, and
in a short time the officers will be here.'

Wilson sat silent for some time. I was
on the alert, expecting that my accusation
would be the signal for an attempt to escape.
But nothing seemed farther from his thoughts.
After a while he raised his eyes to mine, and
said quietly,

Your knowledge of common law cannot
be very great, Mr. Maitland, if you think
that any English jury will convict a man
upon the fancied resemblance between two
scraps of writing. But your deductions are
more correct than your law — I did kill
Roland North wick.'

The audacity of this full confession,
spoken as if he were mentioning an incident
in his career of little moment, so surprised
me that I could only stare at him and ejaculate
:

Villain ! Ruffian !'

Yes,' continued this strange man, ' I killed
him ; and I will tell you why I killed him
that is, if you care to listen to the tale,
and if there is time before the warrant
arrives

The information will be sworn at eleven
o'clock,' I stammered ; marvelling at his
extraordinary composure, and by it compelled
to give him an answer to his question. ' Till
then I added, ' I shall not lose sight of you
for an instant.'

He smiled faintly, almost contemptuously.
He might really have been an uninterested
spectator of the scene. But he began to
speak, and, in a moment, his whole manner
changed. He was transfigured, and I knew
that at last I was face to face with the true
man. His brows contracted, his deep-set
eyes burned with fierce light, his cheek
flushed, and the veins on his forehead stood
out with emotion. His speech was rapid,
and his language eloquent. His gesticulation
was striking ; his thin, lithe fingers
clasped each other, or were extended to
give due emphasis to his powerful words ;

and as I watched his action and listened to
his words, I comprehended that under that
cold surface of reserve, under that well-fitting
mask of suave politeness, beat a heart shaken
by the strongest passions and capable of the
deepest feeling. As I stood face to face
with him, I could scarcely realize that this
was the same man whom I had seen daily
for eight years.

I weill be brief, Mr. Maitland he said ;
I killed Roland Northwick because he
seduced my wife. I had loved her as a
boy — I loved her and married her as a
man. If I had no wealth to give, I gave
her such love as man has never yet given
woman. I believed her to be the most pure,
as well as the most beautiful, of women.
To me she was simply my life. Every
hope, every thought of mine was for her
happiness. Oh, how I loved that woman !
loved her, worshipped her, trusted her,
slaved for her! And that night when,
stricken with the illness which she knew
would be fatal, when I hung over her pillow
and tended her with loving hands, she
whispered that cursed confession to me, my

life was at an end for ever. As, trembling
at death, and the judgment she feared after
that death, she sobbed out her shame tome,
praying for my forgiveness, so that the
God whom she dreaded might perhaps forgive
her, then I laid my lips beside her
ear and whispered:

'* When I have killed him, I will forgive
you. Not till then."

Had you ever loved a woman as I loved
her, you would pity even whilst condemning
me for what you call the crime. I cared
not which was to blame, the man or the
woman; but I said, "That man shall die." The
details of their intrigue were of little interest.
They had first met outside this very office,
where she would frequently wait to accompany
me home. How their acquaintance
ripened, or what arts he used, I know not.
She was a beautiful woman, and he was a
gallant, handsome young man. Yet the day
has been when I could have shown as gay
and gallant a front as Mr. Roland North-wick
! He had made an end of my life, and
his own should pay forfeit.

'The next morning I vas outside his house,

but found no means of gaining an entrance.
I knew all his habits well, and several times
had been to his rooms on business.

" To-morrow," I whispered to my wife,
who now lay almost speechless and insensible
— and " tomorrow " it was ! You know
the rest.

I reached home in the evening, and leaning
over my dying wife, whispered :

" He is dead — I forgive you now."

She spoke no more. The next day she
died, and that look of horror which settled
on her face when I whispered those words of
forgiveness never left it.'

He was silent.

You wretched man !' I cried. ^ Do you
feel no remorse ?'

I feel no remorse. My life became a
blank. Love passed out of it with my wife's
death. Hate left it when I drove that knife
through her seducer's heart. Since then I
have cared nothing for life — nothing for
death.'

But the hereafter — beyond death !' I
cried, appalled by such callousne-ss.

Wilson had again seated himself, and

resumed his usual mask. His recent excitement
had vanished, and left no trace. His
ordinary quiet smile passed over his features.

Intellectual men with my views he said,
trouble little about the future, and fear it
less.'

In spite of my horror and disgust, I
could not help feeling a certain amount of
curiosity.

But how could you avoid detection ?' I
asked.

Simply by not trying to escape it. I
cared little whether I was discovered or not.
Some strange instinct induced me to take
the watch and chain, which now He a shapeless
mass, buried in one corner of the cellar
beneath this house. I only wanted access
to the room. Having done what I had
resolved to do, it mattered little whether I
came out again or not. By some strange
chance no one saw me ; so I walked down
the stairs and reached the office as usual.
My glove was on my hand when I struck
the blow. It was stained with blood, so I
burnt it. That was all. Had I been arrested
that day — as, indeed, I fully expected to

VOL. n. 33

have been — I should have made no defence;
paying the penalty of my act as carelessly as
I shall now

But how could you meet me ? How
could you go about your business as usual,
with this awful crime on your conscience ?'

I tell you, Mr. Maitland, I neither felt nor
feel remorse, regret, or even wish to evade
justice. My life, as I 'understand life, ended.
I simply waited, never doubting but all would
some day be known.'

I felt it was too horrible to hear this man
discussing his crime, and approaching shameful
end as coolly as though he were speaking
of some client's ordinary business matters.

*Now, you see, Mr. Maitland,' he continued,
' why I refused your kind offer of a
partnership. It will matter very little, your
clerk being arrested for murder ; but had I
been your partner it would not have improved
the standing of the firm.'

I thanked him mentally for his consideration,
but said nothing. I was determined to
speak no more. It was too painful, and I
longed for Sharpe to arrive and terminate the
interview.

Wilson, as though reading my thoughts,
glanced at his watch.

^ I see that my time is short he said. ^ I
have one letter I wish to write before the
handcuffs are on my wrists. Would it be
asking too great a favour if I requested you
to leave me alone for a few minutes ?'

I told him he was at liberty to write what
he liked; but I should not quit him. He
slightly shrugged his shoulders, and saying,
As you will,' took a sheet of paper and commenced
writing.

His letter was a very short one. He
placed it in an envelope, laying it on the table
with the address downwards.

The minutes stole on. Surely it must now
be eleven o'clock. I would have looked at
my watch, but a kind of feeling of delicacy
restrained me. I waited some little time
longer and then glanced at Wilson. I was
sitting nearest the door, with the idea of
cutting off any attempted escape. Wilson,
was in my usual seat at the table, which was
littered With letters and legal documents.
This table, I should add, was between us.
As he finished his letter he took up a brief

and commenced perusing it. Even at this
awful moment he appeared to be interested
only in the work which he had done so well
for so many years. His left hand held the
sheet he was perusing near his eyes ; the
remainder of the document hung down,
hiding his right hand as well as the greater
portion of his body. As I sat waiting until
the hour sounded from the neighbouring
church towers, and wondering at the self-command
displayed by the remorseless murderer,
he looked across and met my gaze.
There was an expression in his eyes which I
had never before noticed there.

I have been thinking, Mr. Maitland,' he
said, in his gentle voice, ' that, after all, I
should like to escape the gallows. As there
are only two ways of escaping — one over your
body, and another — I choose that other one.'

And before I could comprehend the
hidden meaning of his words I heard the
loud report of a pistol, and James Wilson
fell forward across my office-table, deluging
it and all it held with his heart's blood.

Before I could call for assistance, Inspector
Sharpe, who was waiting outside, burst open

the door and rushed to the dying man. He
sighed once, and then we knew that all was
over with him.

The letter he had just penned was addressed
to me. It contained only these
words :

The reason of my rash act is extensive
defalcations, which, sooner or later, you must
discover.'

At the inquest held on my ill-fated clerk
I had to appear. I stated, truthfully enough,
that our conversation that morning had been
upon a matter of business which he had conducted
much to my dissatisfaction. The
letter which I produced apparently explained
all. The verdict was — * Suicide whilst in an
unsound state of mind.' I never looked for
any defalcations, well knowing that none
would be found. The detective, no doubt,
formed his own conclusions as to the identity
of the man he came to arrest, for he asked
me nothing more about him ; but I — and I
only — knew the whole truth why Roland
Northwick was murdered, and why James
Wilson shot himself in my office. And the
truth is the narrative above written.

Now, to understand the solemnity of this
story, you must believe that Hopkins is a
man entirely without imagination — Frank Blair
and I decided that when we first made his
acquaintance, years ago, and have never
changed our opinion. We were then two
young geniuses who hoped to soar to fame
on the wings of art — the most imaginative art
of all, figure painting ; and we knew and
were glad to hail imagination wherever we
saw it. Besides, as Blair truly remarked, Hopkins
is a man whose vocation it is to make
money, somehow, on the Stock Exchange ;
so one might as well look for imagination ina
model engaged at a shilling an hour. Then,
again, the man's face is sufficient to assure
you that he is not blessed with any such

quality. 1 1 is a large face, rather flabby and
sprinkled with freckles; the nose is short and
thick, and lip, chin, and cheeks quite destitute
of hair. Hopkins's body, too, is almost inclined
to corpulence ; he dresses in a commonplace
manner, his fingers are short and thick;
so I think we may safely settle, to start with,
that Hopkins is a very ordinary man, and
has no imagination.

I scarcely remember how we first foregathered
with Hopkins. He was hardly the
man we should have chosen for an intimate
friend ; yet, at one time, we saw a good deal
of him. In those jolly old days Frank and
I lodged in modest rooms together and shared
a studio.

I think Mr. Levi Solomon, the picture-dealer,
to whom when hardly pressed we
would sell a picture or two, brought him tous
as a gentleman who desired a personal
interview. It was, of course, against Solomon's
secret wishes that the introduction
took place, as the worthy Israelite did not
approve of direct transactions between artist
and collector ; but Hopkins was doubtless a
good customer and stood firm, so one day

Solomon conducted him to our studio. We
must have been in funds at that moment, for
I remember we treated poor Solomon rather
cavalierly ; and as for Hopkins, we looked
upon him as a being from a lower sphere — a
Philistine ; a creature whose presence in the
world could only be tolerated from the stern
necessity that an artist must sell his pictures
to some one in order to live. Our ideas of
the grandeur and importance of the true
mission of art were very lofty in those days,
especially if we happened to have a few
pounds in our pockets. Hopkins to us was
one of a class of men who buy young artists*
pictures solely with a view of realizing
hundreds per cent, on the investments when
fame comes to the painter.

However, whether from mercenary inclinations,
or for the many good qualities that
adorned us, Hopkins took a great fancy tous,
and sought our society from that day.
Of course he had the usual commercial faults,
and not a few defects of education ; but he
had a great and proper reverence for genius,
and delighted to do it homage — at least, so
we understood the meaning of those little

dinners he gave us, at his own chambers
and various other places. As artists, after
all, are but mortal, and, when young and
struggling, not too highly fed, we accepted
Hopkins's attentions in the spirit in which
we fancied they were meant, and, after a bit,
tolerated him ; indeed, even began to think
he was a desirable acquaintance — so, moved
by a feeling of gratitude for his civilities
only doubled the market-price of the pictures
we could at times induce him to buy.

We enjoyed the dinners he gave us very
much, but I am sure Hopkins enjoyed himself
more when we were kind enough to
condescend to invite him to spend an evening
at our lodgings. He gave us Lafite and
choice cigars ; wee only placed pipes and
whisky upon the table ; but then, as he said,
our rooms, if humble, were the abode of art,
which he honoured. Altogether Hopkins
was not a bad sort, and those were merry
old times.

If Hopkins did not himself take a leading
part in the conversation during these evening
entertainments, he was, at least, a capital
listener ; and, somehow, when Frank Blair

and I, as was our wont, sot into lively discussions
on things in general, and art in
particular, we had contracted the habit of
addressing our remarks to our guest, much
in the same way that honourable members
address their words to the Speaker. Hopkins
would sit in the crazy armchair and
listen with a sort of stolid impartiality, but
rarely ventured to make a remark on his
own account. Occasionally during our talk
I fancied his face would wear an expression
of content, but should not like to be rash
enough to assert even that much. He would
sit smoking his pipe or cigar, but the nearest
approach he made to entering into the discussion
was by giving an occasional grunt,
which might be either of approbation or
condemnation, as those who heard chose to
construe it. Sometimes, for want of better
amusement, Frank and I would join our
forces together and chaff our friend unmercifully.
He bore our sallies of wit very
well, and seemed to like us none the worse
that we made fun at his expense. Yet there
was little fun in it, after all ; and we decided
that, except to keep our hands in, it was

scarcely worth while to waste our fine passes
on a man who was so unresisting and knew
so little of fence. But one unlucky evening
he brought upon himself a regular onslaught.


We had been dilating upon the charms of
an artist's life, and asserting its moral superiority
to that of any trade, when our friend
sighed deeply and said :

Sometimes, do you know, I think had I
learnt to draw when a boy, I might have
done something in your line. But now I am
afraid it is too late.'

This idea was so presumptuous that we
felt it demanded instant and severe punishment,
so Frank said gently :

My dear fellow, you draw some things
very nicely now, even without an artist's
education — cheques, for instance.'

I followed more severely :

Mr. Hopkins, allow me to warn you
against falling into the error of that general
public which you so well represent, of thinking
that the execution alone makes the
artist. An artist, as I understand the word,
must have many qualities besides manual

dexterity. He must have, in addition, many
of the gifts of the poet, and amongst them
that greatest gift of all, imagination. Now
you, my dear sir, I am afraid are not very
great at that'

Poor Hopkins said nothing, evidently
convinced by Frank's sarcasm and my ponderous
arguments that his case was a hopeless
one.

Do you ever dream ?' asked Frank.

Not very often,' replied Hopkins, * only
after curried lobster or crab, or something of
that sort. I am a very sound sleeper.'

Then you see, if you can't dream without
the assistance of indigestible food, you can't
imagine, and I, with every wish to encourage
incipient talent, should advise you not to
adopt the profession of an artist.'

Well, well,' said Hopkins, ' let us say no
more about it,' and he sighed again.

But we were not inclined to let him off so
easily, and went on in the same vein till we
were weary, and tossed him and his aspirations
about between us like a ball. We
treated him very badly, and he must have
been the best-tempered or the thickest-skinned

of men to have stood it without
showing anger.

Tired at last of baiting our imperturbable
friend, we turned to other topics.

Seen Jones's new picture?' asked Frank.

Yes. Don't care much for it I replied ;
men shouldn't try to paint old subjects
unless they can treat them in a new manner.'

Well, it must be hard to strike out a new
line with Hamlet and the ghost. I never
tried to paint a ghost, so I don't know what
I should make of it.'

I shall wait till I see one, and then offer
it handsome terms for a few sittings. I think
there is something to be done with ghosts,
but they must be of an original kind, not
conventional, like Jones's.'

Hang it, no ! They are always the same ;
thinly painted, with something placed conveniently
behind them to show their transparency.
I wouldn't care to paint a ghost of
that sort, people only laugh at them ; but I
should like to put that creepy sensation on
canvas — that feeling that something uncanny
is about.'

*Well, when some one does see a ghost,
we may get the correct thing ; not till
then.'

Ghosts ain't visible,' said Hopkins
solemnly ; ' but, for all that, there are
ghosts.'

A remark like this from Hopkins was an
event not lightly to be passed over, so we
cried in a breath :

What do you know about ghosts ? Ever
troubled with them ?'

He took his pipe from his lips and said
quietly :

If you young fellows won't laugh too
much, I don't mind telling you.'

We promised the gravity of Solon, and
Frank winked at me in so barefaced a
manner, that anybody but our unobservant
friend would have seen it and at once declined
speaking. However, no mischief was
done, for in deep accents he began :

You remember '

Stop a bit,' I said ; * I can tell from the
way the story opens it is going to be something
awful. Let us fill the glasses first.'

We did so.

Now fire away, old fellow, and don't
please, embellish your truthful tale with too
many flowers of fancy.'

Hopkins paused a little.

Look here,' he said, ' you won't mention
this to anybody, as I should not like the
people on the Stock Exchange to hear of it.
They chaff so.'

We vowed that wild horses should not
rend the terrible revelation from our bosoms.

Hopkins began again :

You remember my late partner, poor old
Bobbett ?'

Never even heard of him,' interrupted
Blair.

Ah, to be sure. Before your time. Well,
our firm was — Indeed, Is now — Bobbett,
Hopkins, and Company.'

What business ?' I asked, with the air of
a cross-examining counsel.

Stock - jobbers. Office, — Cape! Court,
said Hopkins with a return to his usual
brevity.

Excuse my Interrupting your interesting
tale,' said Frank, ' but what is a stockjobber
? Something eminently respectable,

honest, and lucrative, I have no doubt. But
what is it ?'

Hopkins summed up his profession briefly
thus :

'You want to sell stock — another man
wants to buy stock — you go to a broker — he
goes to a broker — both brokers go to a
jobber, or dealer, which sounds nicer — your
broker sells him the stock, his broker buys it
of him. That's a stock-jobber's business ina
nutshell.'

But, as I am ignorant of all transactions
in stock, I fail to see the pull of it.'

Well, your broker sells it to me for, say,
one hundred and twenty ; the other man's
broker buys it of me for, say, one hundred
and twenty-one ; and that's the way we
make our living.'

That is a nice business,' said Blair, intones
of admiration ; ' so easy, just the thing
to suit you, I should think.'

Don't listen to him,' I cried ; ' go on with
your tale.'

Hopkins, not the least discomposed by the
interruptions, proceeded :

Old Bobbett was my partner, and a

capital partner he was — sharp as a needle,
and bold as a lion, and always fair in his
dealings between partner and partner. The
only fault I had to find with him was that he
was a little too fond of speculating on his
own account. I like best to let people speculate
through me. It pays best in the long
run, and you sleep much sounder when a
rising or falling market don't make a difference
of a thousand or so to you. But
Bobbett couldn't keep out of it. The excitement
was everything to him, and I must say
he was very clever ; seldom making a bad
mistake. He gave all his time to it, and
had the most marvellous way of picking up
information before other people. I never
knew where he got his tips, but when he
strolled into the office of a morning and said,
'' Better sell or buy North British, Brighton
As," or what else it might be, I knew he had
heard something, and there would be a move
one way or another in the stocks he named.
I tell you I used to get very frightened at
first, especially when we did make losses ;
but at each year's end I found the balance
the right side ; so, at last, I came to trust
VOL. II. 34

Bobbett implicitly — let him do just as he
liked ; and if he told me Consols were going
to drop to eighty, I think I should have
believed him. Poor old Bobbett !'

Hopkins paused here ; it might have been
from the emotion caused by the recollection
of tender commercial passages between himself
and the lamented Bobbett ; but if so,
his face said nothing.

Frank drew the back of his hand across
his eyes, and murmured :

This is all very interesting — very pathetic,
but where's the promised ghost ?'

Our stolid friend took no notice, but went
on like one commencing a fresh chapter of a
novel.

One day my partner told me he was
going to the north of England on some
private business. There was very little
doing on the Exchange at that time, or, I
am sure, no private business would have
called him away. " Better not operate until
my return," he said, 'unless you hear from
me. If I think anything worth doing, or
pick up any news, I will wire." '' All right,"
I said ; '' pleasant journey to you." And so

lie went out of the office, never to return.
Poor old Bobbett !'

Hopkins seemed almost in tears, and we,
who had never given him credit for such
tender feelings, tempered our surprise with
sympathy.

The next day but one came a telegram —
from John Bobbett, Crossleigh Road Station.
It contained these simple words, '' Sell thirty
thousand Martha." I was thunderstruck as
I read it.'

Wait a minute,' said Blair ; ' you are
going beyond us again. What did he
mean ? Were you slave-jobbers as well as
stock-jobbers ?'

We call stocks by nicknames. Caledonian
Deferred are '' Clara," Brighton
Deferred are " Bertha," Northern A's
'' Nora," so that Manchester and Dundee
are ^'Marthas."'

I see said Blair ; ^ what ingenuity !'

I was thunderstruck, I say; and as I
read the telegram my first thought was, it
must be a forgery ; but a secret word, known
to us alone, put its authenticity beyond a
doubt. And yet, in spite of my high opinion

34—2

of Bobbett's cleverness, I hesitated for some
minutes. I could see no possible reason to
expect a fall in the stock named. The
traffic return was good, and a large dividend
was naturally expected. All rails were high,
and all the knowing people said must go
higher. There was lots of public money for
investment, and the outside public dearly
loves to buy on a rising market, and yet
with all these facts before me, I am proud to
say I trusted my old partner, although it was
with a heavy heart I followed his instructions.
I sold at the best price I could get
and just as I had placed the last five
thousand, became aware of great excitement
in the market. You will scarcely
credit it, but telegrams came in, running so :
*' Terrible accident on Manchester and Dundee
line. Two trains completely wrecked.
Fifty persons killed and wounded." You
must remember the collision. It was an
awful smash up, and nearly swamped the
dividend on the deferred shares for that half-year.


As soon as the first excitement subsided,
I began to think of Bobbett. I knew he

was somewhere up that way, and for the
moment felt anxious about him, and then I
laughed at my fears as I remembered the
telegram I had received a short time before.
He, at least, must be all right, or he could
not have sent me that line ; but what an
artful old rascal — fellow, I mean — to manage
to forestall everyone in the intelligence. He
must have sped to the nearest station,
despatched his message, and perhaps bribed
the telegraphs to keep back the official
news until I had time to complete the
transaction. However he managed, it was
very clever, and ought to be a lot of money
in our pockets, and thankful I was I had
trusted him.

I dare say you two in your hearts think
this very wrong, but it is diamond cut
diamond on the London Stock Exchange, I
can tell you.'

Frank and I made polite disclaimers, and
as we were growing rather interested in this
iniquitous exploit of Bobbett's, pressed
Hopkins to go on without fear of wounding
our susceptibilities.

Of course I was very sorry for the poor

people killed, but I could not help feeling, as
I went back to my office, that I had done a
very good day's work. " I won't buy back,"
I said, '^ until Bobbett returns. I should
think, with this transaction open, he is sure
to get back tomorrow." Even as I made
this resolution, a clerk put a telegram in my
hand. It came from some railway official, and
informed me that John Bobbett had been killed
in the smash. My surprise at the first message
was nothing to what I felt now. It was
utterly incomprehensible — it was impossible.
How could Bobbett be dead when his telegram
lay before me ? When he sent that he
must have been alive, and, what was more,
had all his wits about him. It was barely
possible he could have got any one else to
send off the message, and died afterwards
from injuries. I was greatly puzzled and
alarmed, so decided that the best thing I
could do to elucidate the mystery was to go
myself to the scene of the accident, and
ascertain the truth.

I started by the night mail, travelled all
night, and early in the morning reached
Crossleigh Road, a little station of no importance.

The accident had happened some
miles further down the line ; and when I
reached the place I was conducted to a large
barn which stood near the side of the railway
; and there, laid out on the deal boards,
I saw — side by side with many a ghastly
object — the corpse of poor old Bobbett,
mangled and battered almost beyond recognition!
After the emotion I felt at seeing my
old partner in this state had subsided, a feeling
of intense fear replaced it. I saw at one
glance that by no possibility could he have
moved a foot after the accident, and as I
stood wondering, a doctor who was near me
said :

" He was more fortunate than many, his
death was instantaneous."

I obtained further particulars from the
people about, and learnt that his body had
been extricated from the wreck of the carriages,
where it lay with about a ton of wood
and iron on top of it.

And yet I had his telegram, sent from
Crossleigh Road, a station, as I told you
before, at least five miles from the scene of
the collision, and I received that telegram

nearly half an hour before any news came of
the accident.'

Hopkins knocked the ashes out of his
pipe, and was silent. The man's tale had
been told so simply, so circumstantially, the
time and places stated so distinctly, and apparently
truthfully, that Frank and I for the
moment were unable to suggest any explanation.
Hopkins replenished his pipe with the
air of one who has nothing further to say.
At last I asked :

But did you not enquire at the telegraph
office ?'

Oh yes. But I hardly like to tell you
the result of my enquiries, it seems so
strange. I interviewed the man who
worked the machine. I did not want to
get a marvellous tale spread about, so was
very cautious in my questions, enquiring
what messages he had sent off the day before.
At first I could get nothing out of him, but
I noticed, when I asked him whether he
could remember any strange occurrence just
before the accident, he seemed troubled, and
hesitated a little ; so I pressed him further,
and at last got this statement from him.

Some time, about half an hour he thinks,
before he heard of the accident down the
line, he was standing in the office with his
back to the fire, engaged in cracking nuts,
eating apples, or some other device that
clerks with plenty of leisure employ to while
away the time, when he felt a breath of cold
air as if some one had entered and left the
outer door ajar. He turned round to remonstrate
with the careless intruder, and,
to his surprise, saw the door was shut. Ashe
glanced round the room he heard the
familiar click, click, click, and he was quite
prepared to swear he saw the handle of the
instrument working rapidly on its own account,
and evidently sending off a message
somewhere. He was so taken aback, and,
indeed, frightened, that for some moments
he could not move, and when at last he recovered
himself sufficiently to spring forward,
the movement of the handle had ceased, and
the message, whatever it was, speeding to its
destination. He was sure, from the short
time it took in sending, the message was one
of very few words, and I need not say that,
as telegraph clerks are unaccustomed to

seeing their instruments worked by invisible
agency, he was very much puzzled, but decided
not to report the occurrence for fear
his superiors should think he had been
drinking. I gave him a couple of sovereigns,
and begged him to say nothing about it.
Afterwards I enquired at the other end, and
found the message had been forwarded in an
ordinary way. So that in spite of my disbelief
in anything supernatural I could only
come to one conclusion.'

It is very strange said Frank. ' So you
think '

I think that poor old Bobbett's ghost
flew at once to the telegraph-office and
managed to send off that important message
to his old partner and friend. Bobbett
was a very clever man, and no doubt his
ghost was cleverer than other people's
ghost's.'

So that in the general confusion it
managed to evade pursuit for a few
moments ?'

Hopkins made no reply.

But I asked, * have you any reason for
thinking that ghosts in general, or Bobbett's

ghost in particular, are endued with a knowledge
of the Morse alphabet ?'

I have told you before said Hopkins with
crushing solemnity, ' that Bobbett was a clever
man, and knew most things.'

Well, what about the what-d ye-callers
the young women, the Martha ?' asked
Frank.

I waited some days before I closed the
account, hoping that Bobbett might send me
instructions about them somehow, but as I
heard nothing from him, I bought them back
at ten per cent, less.'

That I suppose means a satisfactory conclusion,
and you netted something ?'

Three thousand pounds. It ought to
have been more had I dared to wait ; for they
fell fifteen before they stopped. Perhaps,'
added Hopkins thoughtfully and regretfully,
had I waited till then, Bobbett would have
sent me a message to close.'

He said this in such serious good faith, that
we stared at one another. When we recovered
from our astonishment, I asked :

That profit, of course, went into the
partnership account ?'

Of course it did, sir,' replied Hopkins
almost angrily. ' After deducting my
travelling expenses I passed his share to his
credit.'

And I hope said Frank, with a solemn
face, ' you paid the company the shilling for the
telegraphic message which Mr. Bobbett sent
without their permission.'

Hopkins rose with a manner almost dignified.


^ Mr. Blair,' he said, ' this is the one subject
I never jest upon. I have told you, in
the simplest language, a strange, but a true
tale, and will now wish you good-night.'

So saying he went.

Frank, rather huffed at his last words,
only shook hands with our departing guest,
but I conducted him downstairs and saw him
out. As I closed the door I heard a tremendous
grunt ; indeed so loud was it I
thought it must be a summons for re-admittance.
I opened the door again, and, to
my surprise, saw Hopkins leaning against
the railings, with every muscle of his broad
back in motion. I was quite alarmed, and
said hastily :

Are you ill, old fellow ?'
The quivering motion ceased, and Hopkins
turned round and looked up at me, and his
great face, under the lamplight, was empty of
expression as ever.

No ; only the recollection of those things
of which I told you always upsets me. Goodnight.
Poor old Bobbett !'

Strange tale, Frank,' I said, when having
closed the door on Hopkins's departing sigh,
we settled down once more.

Very. Had anyone else but Hopkins
told it, I shouldn't have believed a word of
it ; but he could no more invent it than he
could paint my Alexander and Thais.'
How do you account for it ?'
Can't account for it. The only explanation
I can see is, that Bobbett, who must
have been no end of a rascal, laid some plan
for wrecking the trains, and arranged to have
the telegram sent off previously. But then
he was in the train, and was smashed up himself,
so that won't do.'

I have seen it asserted,' I said, ' in a
book on spiritual influences, that a person
dying, and thinking of someone at a distance,

had been able to make a sort of resemblance
of himself appear to that someone.
Bobbett's thoughts, directly the smash
came, may have turned to his own passion —
speculating, and acted somewhat In the same
way.'

Nonsense !' said Frank ; ' that won't hold
water. I can't account for it.'

Neither can I.'

And we never did. Hopkins declined to
talk any more upon the subject, which he
said was a painful one to him, so we soon
ceased to think about it.

And yet there is one thing that puzzles
me. Some years afterwards I spoke about
Hopkins and his peculiarities, or rather lack
of peculiarities, to a mutual friend, when
suddenly remembering his tale, I said :

By-the-bye, did you know his late partner
Bobbett ?'

Oh yes ; very well — sharp man he was
too!'

Killed in a railway accident, I believe ?'

No ; he died in his bed like other people,
and left a lot of money behind him.'

Now this piece of information, coupled

with the recollection of Hopkins as I saw
him, leaning against the railings outside
the front-door, and quivering with strange
emotion, roused a feeling of uneasiness in
my mind, and sometimes now, in spite of
his unmeaning features and commonplace
demeanour, I ask myself, in confidence :
Are we wrong after all, and does Hopkins
possess imagination ?'

THE END.

LONDON: REMINGTON AND CO.
