.If

■■■'■"liili :;

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

AT URBANA-champaign



C864W
vel

?^^^^

VOL. I.

AT ALL THE LIBRARIES

VIRGINIA Tenant. By the Author of ' Christina

North,' ' A Golden Bar,' 'Betwixt my Love and Me," &c. 2 vols.

ONLY A CORAL GIRL. By Gertrude Force, author

of 'A Lady's Tour in Corsica,' 'Driven before tria Storm,' &c. 3 vols.

A FAIR CRUSADER: A Story of To-Day. By

William Stall, author of ' Larry Lohengrin,' &c. 2 vols.

A BRETON MAIDEN. By A French Lady, author of

'Tilly Wedding-day.' 3 vols.

BORN IN THE PURPLE. By Maxwell Fox.

3 vols.

HURST & BLACKETT, 13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

BY

HENRY CRESSWELL

Altho OF

A MODERN GREEK HEROINE," '* THE SINS OF THE FATHERS,

"INCOGNITA," "THE SURVIVORS," ETC.

'* Beware of the wrath of the dove.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. L

LONDON :

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

Loi

1888.
All Rights Reserved.

A WILT WIDOW.

CHAPTER I.

Yes, Brown, you are right. It will make
a deal of difference who gets the place.
Well : good-night.'

With his great-coat collar turned up
high about his ears (for the October
night was cold) Dr. Gregg descended the
steps of the South Western Bank, Lynn
and directed his steps towards his
own house at the other end of the street.

Brown was quite right. It would make
a deal of difference who got the place.

VOL. I. B

For instance, if a large family came to
live there, wealthy, but none of them in
good health, that would make a difference
to Doctor Gregg himself Or a man
of position with a little public spirit ; that
would be a God-send to everyone. Whereas,
on the contrary, if the place again fell
into the hands of a miserly old hunks,
there would be one more chance lost for
Lynham. And at Lynham, ^ chances '
were rare.

The little town of Lynham — it is not
worth while to look for it on the map —
lies hidden, in one of the most sequestered
parts of the Dorsetshire coast, in a narrow
and secluded valley, shut in on every side
from the surrounding world by high, steep
hills. No one has yet thought of making
a ^ sea-front ' at Lynham, nor of inventing
curious diagrams to show how much more

the sun shines and how much less rainfalls
there than anywhere else in England ;
nor even of discovering that the climate —
like that of all the known watering-places
— is a certain cure for most of the
ills that hurry poor humanity to the
tomb. So Lynham remains a primitive
little place. Down by the beach there is
an old church on one side of the narrow
valley, and on the other side a small,
and very tolerable, old-fashioned inn that
calls itself the ' London Hotel.' Between
the tAVO a little esplanade extends, built
by the munificence of a former lord of the
manor, and believed by the natives to be
one of the finest promenades in Europe.
Then there is a High Street, and a Church
Street, and three or four other streets,
with about a dozen houses in each of
them; and after that only cottages and

B 2

the rectory, and a few picturesque little
houses clotted here and there ; one, untenanted,
up the Mill Lane, a pretty little
place covered with jasmine, and another,
even more secluded, nearly a mile out of
the town in a hollow on the cliff, called
Cliff Cottage : of which more anon.

In the same direction, but further inland
is Lynhurst, once the country seat
of the Lynhursts of Lynhurst, lords of the
manor of Lynham, and county people of
a little importance. The family is now
extinct. The last of the Lynhursts
(he who built the esplanade) ruined
himself with speculation, and expensive
saddles, and afterwards died childless.
Lynhurst was sold, and passed rapidly
from owner to owner, faring ever worse
and worse, until the poverty of some,
and the neglect of others, and the indifference

of all, had reduced the estate —
sadly curtailed of its original proportions
— to a miserable condition of ruin
and dilapidation.

It had been a pretty spot. Xot, it is
true, one of those stately homes that are
fairy-lands of rolling lawns, and glassy
lakes?, and lordly forest trees ; but a fair
place, with woods climbing the hills, and
a. broad, well-timbered valley opening
before the house, and a glimpse in the
distance of the Channel. The mansion
itself, the last of the Lynhursts rebuilt.
It was a largish house, of two storeys,
forming three sides of a square with a
long verandah in front, not very picturesque,
but, within, roomy and comfortable
; though, like ever' thing else at
Lynhurst, fallen into a shockingly ruinous
condition.

Still, of course, the place might be done
up, the house restored, and the dilapidation
of the estate put into repair, and
then Lynhurst might be as pretty a spot
as ever. Nature does not wear out. And
if some one would come with a pocket full
of money, and do all that, that would be a
fine thing for Lynhara.

For the last fifteen years Lynhurst had
been in the possession of a particularly
sour and unsociable old bachelor, who had
been in evil odour with everyone. Undeniably
he had allowed the place to goto
rack and ruin in a shameful way, and
he was niggardly and mean to a degree.
But perhaps the old fellow could have
told some things his neighbours little suspected.
How hard it was for him to find
the money to pay the interest on the
crushing mortgages, and what sort of

weight that is which falls on an old man's
heart when his circumstances demand of
him the spirit and energies of youth. At
any rate, the old gentleman's shortcomings
do not concern this story. At the time
when it begins he had just been buried a
week, and all Lynham was on the tiptoe
of curiosity ; and everyone, except the
very poorest — the only persons in the
place whose occupations were large enough
to till their lives — was talking about Who
would have Lynhurst, and what would
ensue.

As Brown the banker said, it would
make a deal of difference who got the
place. And Dr. Gregg was not the only
person who agreed with him.

A tall, thin man was the doctor, with
light hair and whiskers, and a rather
cadaverous face that seemed to be entirely

made of sharp points — sharp cheek-bones,
a sharp nose, a sharp chin, sharp pointed
lips, sharp ends to his short whiskers, and
a sharply prominent forehead.

But the doctor had not at all the air of
being intellectually a sharp man. Rather
the contrary. As is mostly the case with
these pointed-faced people, he looked like
a vague man.

The doctor soon reached his own home.
It was a double-fronted house, with iron
railings before it, and wire blinds in the
lower windows. Two very large brass
plates, one attached to the iron railings,
and the other to the surgery door, announced
that Dr. G. Gregg was M.D., surgeon,
and M.R.C.S., and neither the doctor
himself nor any of his patients had ever
observed that that was saying the same
thing twice over.

The doctor hung up his coat and hat in
the hall, and proceeded towards the .
A sound of eager conversation,
mingled with merry laughter, came through
the door. Mrs. Gve^^ had a Cambridge
man staying in the house for a few days,
and had asked one or two friends to tea.
When the doctor entered, he found them
all sitting round a table on which a pack
of cards had been thrown aside. There is
no occasion to describe particularly either
the doctor's little wife or the rector's
daughters, two plain, ladylike, countrified
girls, without a trait to distinguish them
from a thousand other of their class. But
two other ladies sat at the round table
who merited attention.

One of them was a vouno: widow: a
handsome brunette, in the opinion of some
people a very handsome brunette, of five-and-twenty,

who looked younger than she
was, in fact, of so girlish an appearance that
her title of Mrs. seemed to be a mistake.
Scarcely above the middle height, she had
a pretty figure, and a charming head and
neck. Her face was a striking face, finely
chiselled, delicate, intellectual, With deeply
cut features, and an expression a little
sad, a little arch, a little reticent, a little
romantic, and altogether very difficult to
decipher. Men who looked at her once
invariably looked at her again, to get
some better understanding of her wide
low forehead, and her deeply-shaded, dark,
enigmatical eyes, her round, wilful chin,
and her little mouth, firm, with narrow,
blood-red lips. And if the low forehead
appeared, on a second view, a morsel cruel,
if her lips seemed to close a little coldly,
who would have a brunette without steel

in her composition? At moments lie
looked like an unhappy woman, and she
was no flirt, as the Cambridge undergraduate,
who had been smitten on the spot, had
discovered with regret.

The charms of the other were of a
different kind.

This was simply a lively, pretty, frank
young girl, fresh as a rose, with a broad
dash of spirit in her fine eyes and her
easy bearing. One look at her open brow,
her clear blue eyes, sparkling like two
stars, her guileless lips, and her fearless,
direct reo-ard, was enough to tell that she
was of a generous nature, innately noble
and untainted, hitherto, by contact with
the world. She was taller than the widow
by a good inch, and so, distinctly above
the average height, with a slight, girlish
figure, a small waist, sloping shoulders

and a long, flexible neck. Her face was
rather small, a mignonne face, full of a
certain artlessness, but saucy too, with a
touch of childish espieglerie that lurked in
her soft eyes, and her rosy cheeks, and
about her little dimpled chin. Her eyebrows
were exquisitely pencilled, arched,
and two or three shades darker than her
hair, of a light, soft brown — crisp and
abundant. Her ripe little lips had a look
of such sweetness, with such an air, too,
of ' Why don't you kiss us ?' that the
temptation to comply would have been
altogether irresistible, if there had not
been about her, for all her childishness,
and all her pretty mischievousness, clear
evidence of other qualities in her character
that would have made an impudence difficult
to offer her. As she rose, with the
rest, to greet the doctor, turning her head

quickly, and smiling as she held out her
small, narrow hand, a charming dignity
of girlish grace mixed with her rapid
movements. And, as she put her hand
into the doctor's, and, looking straight
into his eyes, said, in her clear, musical
voice, the common-place, ' How do you do,
Dr. Gregg?' there was a sincerity in her
regard, and in the tone of her greeting,
which showed that, if she was artless
and light-hearted, still she carried in
her breast a soul intrinsically noble and
sincere.

She was much better dressed than the
widow, whose silk gown was a tiny bit
shabby, and did not, in the exactness acceptation
of the word, fit. Indeed, she was by
far the best-dressed person in the room.
The fact may as well be mentioned at
once : that, when Lily Hardwick became

on e-and- twenty, she would have a very
pretty little fortune; and so having nice
clothes from London was for her one of the
simplest things in life.

They had all sat down again, and the
doctor, alluding to the laughter he had
overheard in the hall, begged that his
arrival might not interrupt their amusements,
and asked what was going on.

Well — I was proposing a little problem
a sort of problem of the imagination,'
said the Cambridge man. ' It was not
original, but ' he paused.

^ But I want to hear the end of it,
please,' demanded the young heiress, with
that species of authority which pretty girls
are very apt to assume.

The Cambridge man went on.

'Well — I was saying, Dr. Gregg, that
suppose there was an old Tartar in Tartary

oh. you have heard all alDOut it, I am
sure — and suppose that, if that old Tartar
died, you came into a very large fortune.
And if you did something very
simple ; say, took this thimble ' — he had
a thimble under his hand, and was rolling
it about on the table — ' and put it down
so ' — suiting his action to his words, he
put down the thimble on the table-cloth,
as if he were extinguishing a candle with
it — 'and put that old Tartar out, you see,
without anybody but yourself knowing
anything about it : well — would you doit
? I don't mind confessing that I — well ;
I am afraid I should be much tempted to
put out that Tartar.'

And he put down the thimble again as
if extinguishing a candle with it, and
then, looking up quickly at one of the
rector's daughters, asked,

^ Well, Miss Wood ; what do you say T
But that would be murder ; just as if
you killed him in any other way replied
the girl.

'- But I should not be found out, you
know — and the fortune T

I should do it, I know,' said the other
Miss Wood. ' I know it would be awfully
wicked. But Vm sure I should not be able
to resist the temptation.'

We ought to pray to resist temptation,'
remarked her sister, solemnly.

I'd not do it ; not for millions,' exclaimed
the heiress, in her clear, ringing
voice, without waiting to be asked.

'Not really. Miss Hardwick?' asked the
Cambridge man.

Certainly not !'

'You know he is awfully old. He can't
last long anyway,' said the undergraduate

with a droll earnestness that made everyone
laugh.

And, with his eyes fixed on Lily Hardwick,
he beojan bringing the thimble down
again.

No. you shan't !' exclaimed the girl,
stretching out her arm and snatching the
thimble out of his hand.

The doctor, standing by the table,
laughed.

The Cambridge man turned to the young
widow.

*And you, Mrs. Gainsborough,* he
said.

Leaning forward with her elbows on the
table the widow had been watching all that
was soinor forward, with singular attention.
Her thin crimson lips were tightly pressed
together, and not a shade of change passed
over the expression of her sculpturesque

VOL. I. c

face, still as marble. But her strange,
dark eyes went from one to another of the
group before her as they spoke, and she
seemed to watch for what each would say,
and to con the expression of their faces
with an inordinate interest. Every time,
too, that the thimble slowly descended to
extinguish the imaginary Tartar's existence,
her eyes fixed themselves on it in a
fascinated glance. Now that she was
addressed she moved, almost as if unexpectedly
awakened from a reverie.

'What do I say?' she repeated, and
meditatively lifted her fingers to her lips.
But — you see ' — she looked at the Cambridge
man — * the thing is impossible.'

Unluckily,' admitted the undergraduate
so seriously that they all laughed
again.

Yet,' he went on, ' do you know, I

once heard of something that comes very
near it. If I may tell a little story ?'

Oh, do !' exclaimed the girls.

Some years ago a scientific man, a
friend of one of our tutors, was showing::
some chemical experiments to a number of
school-girls. They were very intelligent
girls, big girls, who had been attending
chemical lectures at a first-class school.
They asked him a number of questions,
and got him to show them various elements
and compounds that they had heard of but
never seen ; and, among other things, they
asked to be shown some of the poisons.
Some days afterwards, going to look on his
shelves, he found that one of the most
dangerous of his poisons had been stolen.
And he believed one of the girls had taken
it. If so, there is somewhere in the world
a lady — for she is of course grown up by

c 2

this time — who could dispose of any of us
as simply as I could of the Tartar — if Miss
Hard wick would kindly give me back my
thimble.'

The girls regarded each other with wide
eyes.

What was the poison ?' asked Doctor
Gregg.

I believe it was aconite.'

Is that very poisonous stuff, Doctor
Gregg ?' asked Lily Hardwick.

Yes : a very small dose is fatal.'

'But can it not be easily detected,
doctor ?' enquired the widow. ' I have an
idea that I have heard my father — he was a
medical man, you know — say that it could.'

'Well, Mrs. Gainsborough,' replied the
doctor, speaking gravely, and with much
authority, ' in some cases this poison can
be very easily detected ; in fact '

What more he might have said remained
unfinished, for at this moment the rector
was announced and entered the room. He
had himself come to fetch his daughters
home, because he had some news to bring
the doctor. His wife had had a letter
from a friend in town who had heard all
about Lynhurst.

The late owner of the estate had bequeathed
it to a Mr. Warrington. Mr.
Warrington was a young man of some
property, it seemed, and was shortly to be
married. But Mr. Warrington had no
wish to live in the country, and meant to
sell the place.

So it still remained to be seen what
would become of Lynhurst.

CHAPTER II.

But man proposes and — woman disposes.

Later this same evening the new proprietor
of Lynhurst, who had recently been
the object of so much curiosity in the
Dorsetshire town, and his intended bride,
sat talking together in the large drawing-room
of a house in Welmore Street, Cavendish
Square.

The fiancee — she was his cousin — was ina
low seat a little distance from the fire,
leaning back idly, and listening to what he
was saying to her as he bent over her
chair.

She was a good-looking girl — nothing
more : a blonde, with a blonde's fine complexion
and a graceful figure, and a
classical face, a trifle passionless and
reserved.

But he was a distinctly handsome man.
Tallish, dark, about six-and-twenty, with
a well-knit figure, athletic, and justly proportioned,
with a strong, deeply-cut face
that had aristocratic features and keen,
penetrating eyes of the sort that attract
those women who like to feel a little awe
for what they admire. There was, however,
nothing awe-inspiring in his appearance
this evening, as he stood leaning over
his betrothed with that easy, masculine
grace which appears merely natural, but is
never achieved except by perfectly well-bred
gentlemen, chatting to her in a
pleasant playful tone of his fine flexible

voice, and compelling her to be amused,
even in spite of herself, in a manner
that revealed him — whatever resoluteness
or inflexibility he might have in
reserve — as a good-natured fellow, with
a strong vein of chivalry in his
character, and a natural penchant for
honest, perhaps almost blunt, straightforwardness.


The girl listened apathetically, dropping
now and then a few words, and smiling
softly when he said anything that amused
her ; for the rest employing herself merely
with holding her fire-screen between her
face and the flames, and remarking from
time to time, ' I wonder where Essie can
be.' To all appearance she was a little
bored.

Presently the door opened softly,
and a girl came into the room — the expected

Essie. As lier eyes fell on her sister
and her lover by the fire, she stopped,
and entertained herself for a minute
or two with regarding them. There
was a twinkle of amusement in her
eyes.

She was prettier than her sister, though
her features were less correct. She had
all the appearance, too, of being a good
deal brighter. Her light tall figure
seemed created for rapid motion, and in
her playful face, with its high cheek-bones,
sharp nose, little roguish lips, and laughing
eyes, stood a pretty plain confession
of a waywardness, capable, when the
humour took her, of pranks that at one-ands
twenty, which was her age, may be
serious.

All she said to herself, while watching
the couple at the other end of the room,

was, 'Ah, Mr. Frank Warrington, make the
most of it, my dear cousin !' Then, with
the step of a cat, she crossed to them.

She had stood a full minute close to
Frank Warrington's side before he or her
sister saw her.

Then, laughing, he said,

Ah, here you are at last. I've persuaded
grandfather.'

'And he will let us go?' exclaimed the
girl, with an eagerness in which appeared
some seriousness.

Yes ; both you and Violet. I have told
Violet.'

And I have told Frank, Essie, that he
had better breakfast with us tomorrow,*
said Violet.

Yes, do, cousin !' said Essie.

Well, I will then.'

And we will all drive to the station

together. And, Violet,' she continued,
turning to her sister, ' as we shall have to
breakfast tomorrow at nine instead of half-past
ten we had better ^o to bed soon.'

^AYell, then, I'll be off,' said Frank
Warrington.

Violet rose and he put his arm round
her and kissed her, and, having shaken
hands with her sister, took his departure,
saying,

To-morrow at nine.'

Essie listened for his steps descending
the stairs, and for the front door to close
after him. Then she turned quickly to her
sister.

Oh ! I say, Violet !' she exclaimed.
Struck with a sudden thought, she went
on, ' Violet, Frank has over-persuaded
grandpa for the instant, but nothing is
more likely than that the horrid old

thing will change his mind again. And
you know how he went on at dinner
Let us go to bed before he comes upstairs.'


'What for? What does it matter?
asked Violet, who had sat down again
leaning back idly in her chair.

It seems to me it matters a good deal,
replied Essie. ' Suppose grandpa should
not let us go ?'

But her sister would not move.

CHAPTER Il

However, when the next morning Warrington
appeared for breakfast at a little
after nine, the girls welcomed him with
their things on, already dressed for their
journey.

It was a bright October morning, calm
and rather cold.

An hour later the northern express,
standing by the long departure platform at
Saint Pancras, was rapidly taking up the
last of its passengers and their luggage.
The minute hand on the giant clock-face at

the end of the imposing station had nearly-reached
the hour, and the clipping of
tickets had commenced, and the closing of
carriage-doors.

Warrington, standing on the edge of the
platform, by the window of one of the
first-class carriages, was talking to Violet,
and from time to time looking over his
shoulder at the bookstall.

I don't see Essie,' he said.

Oh, Essie is sure to come in time,
Frank,' said Violet, reassuringly.

And, as she spoke, Essie slipped out of
the booking-office, and, passing through
the crowd on the platform, came over to
where Warrington stood, coming up to him
with her noiseless step just as the ticket-inspector
reached the carriage, Which he
opened for her.

She sat down opposite her sister, by the

window. At the other end of the carriage
was the lady's-maid, a discreet-looking
parisiemie^ with an impenetrable and imperturbable
French face.

Whilst the official clipped the tickets,
"Warrington for the moment stood back
from the window. Then, resuming his
place, he said, speaking to both the
girls,

I shall tell grandfather that I sav you
safely off, and that you had a compartment
to yourselves. The guard has
promised me not to put anyone in at
Kentish Town, and the train does not stop
afterwards until you reach Kettering, so
you will have the carriage to yourselves
all the way. Mrs. Eversfield will be sure
to meet you on the Kettering platform, and
you have Felicite with you. So I think
I may tell grandfather not to fidget,

seeing that you are about as perfectly safe
as it is possible to be.'

Always supposing that there is not a
railway accident, you know,' said Essie.

Heaven forbid it !' remarked her sister,
with greater solemnity than the unlikely
suggestion demanded.

At any rate, ' ran on Essie, ' if anything
does happen to us, it will be all
cousin Frank's fault, won't it, Frank ? Because
if it had not been for your persuading
him, and promising to see us off, grand-papa
would never have let us go. If anything
goes wrong it will be your doing,
won't it ?'

We will hope that nothing will go
wrong,' said Warrington, easily.

'No, but seriously, Frank,' returned
Essie, in another tone, Sve are awfully
obliged to you for having persuaded

grandpa, and having managed it all for
us ; for we should never have done it without
you. Grandpa always gets cross
and impatient, when we try to bring him
to any reason.'

Whilst she spoke Violet Chesterfield
looked through the side window, an askance
look at Frank Warrington, a very
strange look. When her sister had done
speaking, she added her thanks languidly,
a sort of echo only of what the other had
said, and asked,

Is it not almost time for the train to
start ?'

In about two minutes.' Warrington
looked up and down the train, and then
went on, ' I shall come to meet you this
evening.'

Thanks,' said Violet, in the same cold
tone.

VOL. 1. D

A shadow crossed the man's handsome
face, a shadow of pain, but a momentary
one only. It was not difficult to understand
that shadow. The case between him
and the girl was only too plain. The old
story, ^ En amour il y a toujours s wi quinine
et un qui se laisse aimer. ^ And the love
was on his side, a man's blunt love, with
its unselfish tenderness. On her side
existed, perhaps, some admiration for a
handsome, accomplished man, certainly
nothing more ; and a cruel indifference to
his seeing it. Nothing breathes more pitiless
than a woman who is loved by a man
whom she does not love. All the histories
of the worst of tyrants and inquisitors,
and of the cruellest tortures to which their
victims have been subjected, offer no example
of a heartlessness so bitter as that
with which a woman will, without hesitation,

wound the gentlest feelings of a lover
for whom she has no affection.

Oh, Frank, do you know,' recommenced
Essie, ' we were so awfully amused at something
we heard the other night at Mrs.
Phillips's. I must tell you about it. It
tickled our fancy so enormously. It was
such an awfully funny story, and your
coming to see us off has made me think of
it. I hope I shall have time to tell you
before the train starts. Mrs. Phillips hasa
niece, or a cousin, or something, I really
forget what exactly. And she — I mean
the cousin — lived with her great-aunt, or
her great-uncle, or her great something.
And she was eno-ao-ed to a man for whom
she did not care a bit — you understand.'

Frank Warrington nodded assent. From
her corner Violet Chesterfield was regarding
her sister with a certain degree of

D 2

curiosity. Apparently this story was new
to her.

Well,' went on Essie, ^ this girl was
engaged to this man, a Mr. — really I forget
his name — we will say Smith. And
she could not for the life of her discover
how she was to escape from having to
marry him. I can't tell you all about
that. It would take too long. Anyhow
the time slipped by, and at last the
wedding-day was fixed, and the girl grew
positively desperate, when, all of a sudden,
she hit upon a plan. It really was so awfully
funny I can't help laughing when I
think of it.'

And she began to laugh.

Are you crazy, Essie ?' interrupted
Violet, in a low cold voice, from her
corner.

Why ? Why should I not tell Frank? '

demanded Essie. ' The story is no secret.'
I am sure Frank does not want to hear
it. Don't listen, Frank.'

No. But it is a very funny story,'
insisted Essie. 'Xow, Frank, listen. This
mrl managed to jet an invitation from
her ;godmother to come and pay her a
visit before her wedding. The godmother
had been always awfully kind to her ;
like Violet's godmother, Mrs. Eversfield,
sou know. I don't know where the godmother
lived. But it was near Dover.
The girl's friends refused to let her go.
So she appealed to Smith to help her,
and he agreed. She got away from home
on the sly, and the amorous Smith met
her, and accompanied her to Victoria
Station, and put her into the Dover train
and promised to come and meet her again
in the evening. You understand ?'

'Yes.'

Well, the train started all right. And
that is the end of the story.'

How so ?' asked Warrington.

^ Why — can't you see ?'

She never came back ?'

Never ^ said Essie, with a shake of her
pretty head, and a look of the dullest
solemnity. ' But, don't you see, the joke
of it was that it was Smith that had
assisted her to escape from himself.'

The minute hand of the train had
reached the hour. At St. Pan eras the
trains start with the greatest punctuality,
and without the least fuss, and at the
same instant a guard's low whistle sounded
down the platform, and the train began to
move.

Frank Warrington walked a few paces
by the side of the train, shaking hands

with the girls, wishing them * Bon voyage
and adding,

Telegraph from Kettering.'

The speed quickening slightly, he was
just about to turn away from the train
when Violet suddenly leaned forward and
looked in his face.

Adieu she said, in a tone that had a
ring of strange significance.

And a moment afterwards, he being
left by that time some three or four yards
behind, Essie put her head out of the
window.

'Good-bye — Mr. Smith,' she said,
laughing.

Then she drew in her head, and the
window-sash went up with a little jerk.

CHAPTER IV.

The train rolled away, winding round the
curve out of the station. Frank Warrington
stood looking after it. Soon the
end of the last carriage disappeared, and
there was no more to be seen : only the
porters with their trucks, and other railway
servants, and the news-boys, and the
people who had come to see their friends
off, moving away.

Warrington turned, and took six slow
steps towards the way out of the station.
Then he stopped, and, facing about, looked

in the direction of the train that had
vanished.

His mind misgave him. Incredible as
the thing was, he could not shake offa
haunting misgiving that his cousin
Essie had been describing' to him an
impudent hoax of which he was himself at
this very moment the victim.

But this is impossible !' he said to
himself.

Yet he could not make up his mind to
leave the station. Lighting a cigar, he
began walking up and down the long
platform. And he went to look at the
time-table. The train was due at Kettering
at 11.28 a.m. He might have
remembered that.

The train did not stop except at Kentish
Town between London and Kettering.
It would be very easy to telegraph to

Kettering. Only, if really bent on mischief,
the girls might easily go on beyond
Kettering.

The train stopped next at Sheffield, or
they might change at Kettering for Nottingham.
Only then, Mrs. Eversfield
would see them. Well, it would be easy
enough to telegraph to all these points :
"Two young ladies, sisters — tall, fair, et
cetera dressed — that would be rather more
difficult to describe — accompanied by a
French maid — should alight at Kettering,
and be met by a Mrs. Eversfield — suspected
of intention of escaping from their guardian.
Have train watched. Arrest ladies, if they
pass Kettering.' Thus Warrington to
himself, whilst consulting the time-table.
One thing he knew for certain, Mrs. Verified
would not assist the girls in any mischief.
If they alighted at Kettering, and

were met by her, all was Avell. In that
case, he would only have to pay for the
telegrams, and no one need ever know
anything about the matter.

He did telegraph to Kentish Town, to
know if by any chance the girls had commenced
operations at once, by leaving the
train there. Answer in the negative.

With a jerk, Frank Warrington brought
his cane up under his arm, and, swinging
round on his heel, walked away from the
telegraph-office, and out of the station.

He was ashamed of himself. He appeared
to be forgetting that he was a
gentleman and the girls ladies. Ladies
and gentlemen do not do things of this
kind. A girl who respects herself does
not jilt a man without a word of explanation
a month before her wedding-day.
Young ladies do not go on their travels

ivitli no more luggage than a lady's-maid
and a hand-bag. Well-bred girls have
more regard for their own reputations
than to vanish in the manner related in
the history of Mr. Smith. The story of
Mr. Smith was simply a story, and
probably not true; it seemed doubtful
whether any man could be such an ass
as Smith — though some great fool might,
perhaps.

And resolving to banish from his thoughts
a suspicion which he was ashamed ever to
have entertained, he hailed a hansom, and,
jumping into it, named to the driver his
grandfather's house in "Welmore Street.

Is General Chesterfield down ?' he asked
of the boy in buttons who opened the
door.

'At breakfast, sir.'

Laying down his hat and stick on the

hall-table, "Warrington crossed to the diningroom.


Seated at one end of the table, with his
back to a roaring fire, was an old man,
very stout, and perfectly bald, with a large
and very rubicund face. He was dressed
in a hideous flowered dressing-gown, and,
with a large table-napkin tucked under his
double or treble chin, was commencing
with a plate of julienne soup what was
evidently, from the number of things on
the table, to be a very long and elaborate
dejeuner.

Good-morning, grandfather ; how are
you this morning ?' said Warrington.

^ I've got the indigestion,' growled the
old man, crossly. * What's the time ?' he
asked in the same tone, as Warrington
drew a chair to the side of the table.

'About half-past ten.'

'And those jades of girls not down yet.
They treat me with no more respect than a
sweep. Upon my soul, I'll not put up
with it ! — ril not put up with it.'

'Down! They had breakfast at nine,'
said Warrington, sitting down. ' I breakfasted
With them. You forget. I have
just come back from seeing them off from
the station.'

Station ! What station ?' demanded
the old man, holding a spoonful of soup in
front of his mouth.

From St. Pancras.'

What do they want to go to St. Pancras
for?'

Gone down to Kettering, you know, to
see Mrs. Versified.'

'I said they should not go down to
Kettering,' exclaimed the general, passionately,
turning half round in his chair to

face his grandson. And he gave the table
a great thump with his fist.

But, you know, last night you gave
them leave to go,' remarked Warrington,
altogether undisturbed at the old man's
temper.

I said they should not go. I will not
have them go to see Mrs. Eversfield ; and
they shall not go,' replied the old man,
still more angrily. ' I'll not have them
running about the country like a pair of
milliners.'

But, you see, as you gave them leave,
they are gone.'

I don't care. They shall not go,' thundered
the general. ' I say they shall not
go.

But, bringing down his fist once more
to emphasize his determination, the old
fellow, whose sight was not so good as it

had been, this time just caught his knuckles
on the edge of his soup-plate, which thereupon
flew spinning into the air, showering
its contents all over himself.

Ugh !' he exclaimed, with disgust, pushing
back his chair and holding out his
hands as he watched the soup) dripping
down on the carpet. 'Here, get me a
napkin ; get me something. Here, James !
Ugh !'

The man-servant came to his assistance,
the soup was wiped ofl* the carpet, a clean
table-napkin provided, and another plate
of soup. Meanwhile, Warrington explained
how he had seen the two girls and their
maid safely oiF from St. Pan eras in a compartment
which they would have to themselves
all the way, the general growling all
the time, and asserting the wilful disobedience
of the girls, and declining to hear

anything "Warrington wished to say in
explanation.

'Very well he concluded at last, passionately,
' very well. I wash my hands
of the whole affair. I said that the girls
should not go. I told them so last night
after you left. You choose to assist them
to disobey me. I have nothing to do
with it. If anything happens, it is all
your fault. You understand, sir, all your
fault. Not mine. And if you wish your
wife and her sister to conduct themselves
like milliners — very good. Only not so
long as they are in my house, please. You
have assisted them to disobey me ; and I
wash my hands of the whole affair.'

And he pushed his plate from him and
poured himself out a glass of Chablis.

Cod "a la HoUaiidaise'' succeeded the
julienne, and the painful subject of the

YOL. I. E

Misses Chesterfield's conduct was dropped.
The old man was still cross, and exceedingly
huffy, but by degrees his breakfast and
his grandson coaxed him into a better
temper, and by one o'clock grandfather
and grandson were getting on together
capitally. The old man had finished his
breakfast, and was sipping a cup of strong
coffee and smoking a cigar in which Warrington
had joined him, standing leaning
against the chimney-piece.

A servant came in with a telegram for
the general.

Now, then, what's this ?' exclaimed the
old man, pettishly ; ' why do you bring me
telegrams directly after my meals ? Eh ?
Haven't I trouble enough to digest my
food, without having my stomach loaded
nth telegrams. Eh? AVhat's it about?
Take it away.'

Warrington stepped forward.

I told the girls to telegraph as soon as
they reached Kettering he said, quietly.
*No doubt it is from them.'

'Very well said his grandfather, not
too pleasantly. ' Then you had better
look at it.'

Warrington took the telegram from the
servant, and, still leaning against the
chimney-piece, tore it open.

He turned as pale as ashes.

The telegram was not from the girls but
from Mrs. Eversfield.

Misses Chesterfield not come hy eleven
twenty-eight Am 1 to expect them hy a later
train ^ or are their plans changed? 1 wait at
station for reply, ^

Warrington felt the floor giving way
under his feet.

Sitting up in his deep arm-chair, the

general was sipping his coffee. Putting
down his cup he leaned back again, and
replacing his cigar between his lips, puffed
a slow cloud of smoke.

I am afraid there is something wrong,'
said Warrington, in a cold, even tone,
mastering himself by a strong effort. ' Mrs.
Eversfield telegraphs that the girls have
not arrived at Kettering.'

Where are they gone, then?'

I don't understand it,' answered Warrington,
in the same quiet way. *The
train did not stop between London and
Kettering, and they must have arrived
there. Only it seems that there is some
mistake. — I'll telegraph to Mrs. Verified
at once,' he concluded, proceeding to
leave the room.

In his own mind he had no doubt at
all about what had happened. This was

the veritable history of the redoubtable
Mr. Smith.

He hastily put on his coat in the hall,
and snatched up his hat and stick, telling
the telegraph boy that he need not wait.
Going out he hailed the first cab he saw,
and, promising the cabman a handsome
fare, bade him drive for his life to St.
Pancras.

For the moment he did not know what
he felt most, indignation, anger, mortification,
or sheer stupefaction : mortification
at the evidently irretrievable loss of his
cousin, to whom he was sincerely attached ;
indignation at the trick that had been
played him ; anger with his cousin for
what she had done, and with himself for
proving so easily her dupe ; or stupefaction
at the sudden occurrence of an incident,
so far as he could perceive, utterly

unprepared, and perfectly unaccountable.

He already had a theory. The girls had
deliberately gone beyond Kettering. Their
intention was to leave the train at some station
further down the railway. There, some
accomplice would be waiting to meet them,,
some man, or men ; all this had not been devised
without the assistance of men. Who
the men might be was more difficult to
conjecture. The girls had an uncle, their
mother's brother, and they liked their uncle
better than their grandfather. But their
uncle was abroad. Other relatives they had
none. Presumably then the men on whose
assistance they were relying belonged to
the indefinite class most simply described
as ' lovers,' and these gentlemen were probably
to be rewarded with the hands and
hearts of the young ladies.

Only, by Jove, not if I can help it,"

vowed Warrington, in the corner of his
cab.

Another point occurred to him. The
girls, if they were well advised, would not
go very far beyond Kettering. They could
hardly have left out of their calculations that
as soon as they were missed they would be
pursued by the telegraph. And they would
be missed as soon as they did not appear
at Kettering. Their device would evidently
be to quit the train at the next station
after Kettering in the hope of getting away
before there had been time for Mrs. Verified
to telegraph to the grandfather, and
for their grandfather to telegraph down the
railway to stop them.

The next place at which the express
stopped after Kettering was Sheffield.
Alas that their destination ? or had they
gone to Nottingham ?

I think I have them. They have been
mistaken in their Mr. Smith,' quoth
Warrington to himself.

The cab drew up with a jerk. Tossing
the driver half-a-crown, "Warrington rushed
to the telegraph office.

He telegraphed to Sheffield and to Nottingham,
and, at the suggestion of the official,
to Chesterfield, where the train might
have been stopped by signal.

Tito young ladies sisters tall, fair ^ fashionably
dressed accompanied by a French lady's
have tickets for Kettering hut have gone
beyond that station, believed to be attempting to
escape from their guardian perhaps have gone
further please search train and make inquiries''


An answer came back from Nottingham.
No such ladies had alighted there. Nor at
Chesterfield where the train had stopped.

Warrington went out of the telegraph
office, and took a turn on the 2)latfonii,
considerably lighter of heart.

You ought to have left the train before
this, young ladies,' he remarked, in imagination
addressing the fugitives. ' I am
afraid that you have not been very well
advised. We shall have you now at
Sheffield.'

He had telegraphed to Mrs. Eversfield
making some sort of excuse.

Now he was waiting for the train to

CD

reach Sheffield.

When it was due there he returned to
the telegraph office.

Telegram from Sheffield : ' No such ladies
in the train''

But this is impossible,' exclaimed Warrington.
' I myself saw them leave this
station in the train, and if they did not

alight at Kentish Town, nor at Kettering,
they must have been in the train when it
reached Sheffield.'

The telegraph clerk asserted that she
couldn't say,' with the curtness peculiar to
his species.

It appeared to Warrington that it was
very easy to say that people who had not
left a train must still be in it. The adventure
began to resemble magic. If Fell cite
had had anything bigger than a hand-bag
with her he would have begun to believe
in disguises.

Another telegram from Sheffield.

Guard of express says that two young
ladies similar to those described and accompanied
by a lady-maid, alighted at Bedford,
One of the ladies was ill and the train was
stopped by signal from the carriage as it was
running into Bedford station. Train stopped

at Bedford only for a minute. Telegraph to
Bedford.'

One of the girls taken ill ! This was a
new aspect of the matter.

And of course Warrington 'telegraphed
to Bedford.

Answer from Bedford: 'The Scotch
express stopped here by signal given by
passengers. Vivo young ladies lighted and
a maid with them. They had tickets for
Nottingham'

How on earth did they come to have
tickets for Nottingham?' wondered Warrington.
Were these his cousins? His
head began to turn on his shoulders.

Telegram to Bedford for further particulars,
and to inquire what had become of
the young ladies and their maid.

Reply : ' One of the young ladies was indisposed
and her sister stopped the train just

as it was coming into Bedford. Young ladies
and maid left the station shortly after their
arrival. Nothing is knows of here they
went afterwards''

A suspicion of the truth rose before
Frank Warrington. There was a train in
the station shortly to start for Bedford,
and he went down by it. He found his
suspicion correct. The young ladies who
had stopped the express were the Misses
Chesterfield. Violet had found herself
suddenly indisposed, and Essie had stopped
the train. The waiting-room attendant
was inclined to think that the young lady
had nothing very serious the matter with
her. She refused to take anything that
was suggested, and, after about ten minutes,
said she would walk up and down the
platform, believing that the air would do
her good. After that the attendant saw

and heard no more of them until the telegram
arrived.

It was {lYe o'clock by this time, and
dark. The girls had had time to go almost
anywhere, and further inquiries about
them were merely ridiculous. Warrington
had nothing left to do but to return to
town to inform the general that his granddaughters
had, beyond a doubt, run away,
and to see how the old man would like
it.

For his own private satisfaction, he
had the further knowledge that he had

o

played the part of Mr. Smith to perfection.

CHAPTER V.

On reaching town, Frank Warrington drove
straight to General Chesterfield's. He
was resolved at once to acquaint the
general with the whole truth. To put off
facing inevitable mortifications is the foible
of those weak characters that seek to gain
time with some] vague horde of gaining,
with time, courage ; and weakness was not
among Frank Warrington's faults.

When he reached Welmore Street, the
general was just going to dine. Nothing
could have been more unfortunate, and

Warrington knew it. If he could have
reached the general's only a 
earlier, the case would not have been
so utterly desperate. Now the general
would be kept waiting for his dinner ;
he must hear vrhat Warrington had to
say. Then the dinner would be spoiled;
and the general would be furious : and the
passion he would put himself into would
entirely upset his digestion : — and, when
once the general's digestion was upset, his
self-control became a minus quantity,
after which everything was possible, not
excluding apoplexy. However, there was
nothing for it but to break the fatal

news.

Indeed, the general left him no choice.
As Warrington came in, the old man was
descending the stairs, and, seeing his grandson,
at once demanded,

Eh, Frank, is that you ? But where —
where are the girls ?'

Instead of directly answering the question,
Warrington asked,

Grandfather, can I speak to you for a
few minutes in private ?'

Speak to me for a few minutes in
private: now: just before dinner? No
certainly not, sir ! Where are those two
girls ?'

Receiving no answer, he ran on, angrily,
with an oath,

Not come in yet ! Eh ? Well, then,
I'll not have them out of the house at this
time of night. I'll not have it, sir ! I tell
you, I'll not have it !'

It is of no use for you to put yourself
into a passion, grandfather,' remarked
Warrington, tolerably coolly. ^ I'd rather
tell you in private, if you could spare a
couple of minutes.'

But — I'll not spare a couple of
minutes.'

Well, then, I suppose I must tell you
here,' said Warrington. (They had come
into the dining-room, where the men-servants
were waiting by the sideboard.) ' The
girls have bolted''

What !' demanded the general, stopping
suddenly, and facing his grandson.

The girls have bolted,' repeated Warrington.


Going to the hearth, he turned his back
to the fire, and stood stroking his moustache,
and looking at the general.

For a few minutes the general looked
unbounded, only trembling, and turning
crimson with passion. Then he stammered
out, in a choking voice,

What ! what ! gone away ! the hussies !
gone : it's — it's — not true !'

VOL. I. F

Perfectly true, I assure you,' answered
Warrington, with very tolerable composure.
'The girls have bolted. I saw
them into the train at St. Pancras this
morning, and got them and their maid their
tickets. Three tickets for Kettering. They
did not go to Kettering. When they
reached Bedford they signalled to the
guard to stop the train. Violet said that
she was ill, and they were left upon the
Bedford platform. They went to the
ladies' waiting-room, and remained there a
few minutes. After that they must have
left the station, for nobody knows anymore
about them. I have been down to
Bedford to make inquiries, and can ascertain
nothing.'

The serving-men standing by the sideboard
looked at each other.

Here, come with me,' said the general.

He led the way to the library, Warrington
following him. As soon as the door
was closed behind him the general began,

What the devil, sir, do you mean by
telling me a story like this before the servants?
And listen, sir. I don't believe a
word of it. And I icon believe a word
of it. AYherc are these hussies gone ?'

Warrington related his history again,
with further particulars. And then he
told it a third time ; the general working
himself up into a terrible passion
meanwhile, and vowing that he would not
believe a word. Howbeit, in time the
facts became too strong for him, and then
began the real scene.

First the general swore. And then,
falling into such a rage that he could
scarcely speak, he stammered out, in
broken sentences, amidst many very bad

f2

words, that the girls were a pair of disreputable
hussies, and something else a great
deal worse, and that they should never
enter his house again — that he would disinherit
them, and would alter his will that
very evening — that Warrington was every
whit as bad as the girls, and an impudent,
conceited donkey into the bargain — that
it was Warrington's fault and nobody's
else that the girls had finally disgraced
themselves ; that he, the general, did not
care a fig what became of any of them —
and that he was going to have his dinner.
All that might have been said in a
very few minutes. But the old gentleman
repeated each particular so many times,
and employed so many powerful adjectives
and adverbs to emphasize all he said, and
stammered so much, that it was past nine
o'clock before he and his grandson parted,

not very amicably, but less unpleasantly
than might have been expected. After
all, men understand one another, and make
allowances.

Going to the dining-room, the general
even said to himself,

Fm afraid the poor boy is put out about
the loss of his sweetheart — the hussy.
And confound the young coxcomb ! Helping
the hussies to disobey me ! It's all his
doiuo:, confound him ! But I'm afraid the
boy is put out about the loss of his sweetheart.'


Of course the dinner was spoiled. That
was a small matter compared with the
flight of the girls, but hardly so in the
eyes of the general. Anyhow, this last
final provocation proved too much for the
poor old fellow's already over-heated brain.
After pushing away a third dish with a

savage ' Take it away, James. Take it
away. It's not fit to give to a dog he
got up from the table, vowing he had no
appetite. For an hour or two he fretted
about the place, sending for the servants,
and wanting to know why Warrington had
left, scolding in all sorts of unreasonable
ways, and grumbling about not being able
to eat his dinner. Then he went to bed.
The next morning he was complaining of
rheumatism in his left shoulder, and looking
as yellow as a guinea, and unable to
eat his breakfast.

CHAPTER VI.

About the same time that Warrington left
Bedford, a big, broad-shouldered man
between fifty and fifty-five years of age,
with his large hands thrust into the side
pockets of his dark pea-jacket, sauntered
into the station at Huntington. He was
a strongly built man, good-looking for his
years, with a bright clear eye, and a finely-moulded
face, expressive in a high degree
of both energy and good-nature, browned
with exposure to the sun and wind, where
it was not covered by his heavy moustache

and enormous beard that grew high on
his cheeks and flowed down on his broad
breast. In his air there was something
of the man accustomed to command, and
something of the easy bearing of a sailor.

When will the train be in from Lynn ?'
he asked of the station-master, who was
standing on the platform.
Six-seventeen, sir.'
It will be late to-night.'
No, sir.'
Thanks.'

The speaker turned away, and, strolling
along the platform, took from his pocket
a briar pipe and a pouch of tobacco. He
filled his pipe slowly, and then, having
lighted it, put his hands again into his
pockets, and, walking up and down the
end of the platform, smoked his pipe in a
leisurely fashion.

When the train was signalled, he had
just finished. Knocking out the ashes
against a lamp-post, he put away his pipe,
and putting his hands again into his
pockets, sauntered to the front of the platform
with the same leisurely ease that
characterised all his movements.

The train rolled in. As it passed, he
rapidly scanned the windows of the carriages,
and then a smile lighted his face.

At one of the windows were two girls
looking out eagerly : Violet and Essie
Chesterfield.

There is Uncle Tony,' cried Essie at the
same instant, as he turned and came towards
them.

A minute later the girls were both on
the platform, holding their uncle by his
arms, with their little hands on his great
shoulders.

Dear old Uncle Tony !'

So you got away, then ?' remarked their
uncle, smiling.

Oh, we had such fun !' replied Essie.
'Cousin Frank came to see us off; really
he did. Last night grandpa said we
should not go, and we were in the most
awful fright. But Frank took our part,
and at last grandpa consented. After
Frank had gone, grandpa changed his
mind again, and said we should not go
after all. But grandpa never comes
down to breakfast till nearly eleven, and
so this morning we had an early breakfast.
And we told Frank — he came to breakfast
-with us — nothing about grandpa having
changed his mind. So he took us to the
station, and, only fancy, Uncle Tony ! he
got us our tickets, and everything! I could
have laughed ! And he told us we were

to be sure to telegraph when we got to
Kettering. And he said he would come
to meet us at St. Pancras in the evening.
And, do you know, just before we started,
we told him a story about an imaginary
Mr. Smith, who was going to be married
to a girl who did not care for him, and
how the girl got him to see her ois by the
train, and never came back; just what we
were doing, you know. And he never
took it in, not a bit. Then all the rest we
did just as you told us. Violet pretended
that she was ill, and we stopped the train
at Bedford. I am sure ' — here Miss Essie
looked very droll — ' that the woman in the
ladies' waiting-room at Bedford saw that
we were humbugging. However, we got
away from her as fast as we could. Then
we took the train to Cambridge. And,
do you know, we had such an awfully

jolly luncheon at Cambridge, we were so
hungry ! And from Cambridge we came
straight on here, and here we are, you see,
safe and sound.'

I see,' said Uncle Tony. ' I'm afraid
it's all very wrong, you know. You've no
luggage, I imagine, and we may just as
well be going.' He turned and spoke to
the lady's-maid, who was standing a little
off. sand how are you, Felicite, quite
well?'

'Quite well, thank you, sir,' answered
Felicite, with a French accent ; ' and very
glad to get away from the General Chesterfield's
house, sir.'

Come along, then,' said Uncle Tony to
the girls. ' The trunk you sent down from
town came last night, and was taken onboard
this afternoon ; so we have nothing
to wait for.'

When they were in the cab, he asked,

'And the general, how did you leave
him ?'

The horrid old thing !' exclaimed Essie.
He is killing himself with eating. Fancy !
the doctor has told him five times within
the last two months that, if he goes on
stuffing himself as he does, he will die of
it. And yet he eats enough at any meal
for three.'

'You have been very unhappy with
your grandfather?'

He never said a kind word to us, not
once, all the time we were with him,'
said Violet, passionately. ' We have been
scolded at, called names, and sworn at for
two years.'

Do you mean that he really swore at
you ?'

Rather !' said Essie.

The general's life has been a very rouo^h
one observed Uncle Tony, apologetically ;
but in his time he was a fine officer.
And your fiance my dear V he continued,
turning to Violet.

• Oh, I suppose he is all right,' replied
Violet Chesterfield, indifferently. ' You
l5:now, he is not at all a bad sort of fellow,
uncle. In a way I like him, only '

But you must not be changing your
mind, my dear. It is too late to begin
liking him now.'

You quite misunderstand me,' answered
Violet Chesterfield, coldly.

*A11 right, niece.'

^ I mean, uncle,' explained Violet, more
confidentially, ' that I could like Frank
well enough as my cousin — but that I
could never wish to marry him. I should
never have dreamed of such a thing, I can

assure you, only we were both of us so
utterly wretched with grandpa. You
can't imagine what we have endured. Nothing
but scold, scold, scold, nag, nag, nag,
all day long, to say nothing of his being
in a perfect fury-with us at least twice a
week ; and almost mad whenever we said
we wished that we could live with you.
"We have been nearly beside ourselves, and
there seemed no way out of it, except
getting married. And so, when Frank
came home from abroad, and I saw that
grandpa wanted me to marry him, I
accepted him. I know it was wrong ; but
oh, well, T don't want to make excuses,
I know it was wrong.'

Certainly,' admitted Uncle Tony.

'Afterwards, you know, when it came
to marrying, I began quite to hate him,
though I knew he was not a bad sort of

fellow. Still, when I began to see what it
all meant, that I was throwing myself away
for good and all, and should have ever
after to turn round and round in one fatal
circle of Frank, Frank, Frank, nothing but
Frank — never to live anywhere except with
Frank, never to go anywhere except with
Frank, never to love anyone but Frank,
never have anyone to think about but
Frank, never any home but Frank's home,
and never any future but Frank's
future, I began to think that I should go
mad. And if you had not come to our
assistance 1 should have done something
desperate, I know, something awfully
wrong, I daresay. However, thank goodness,
it's all over now, like a bad dream :
and I don't know that I am not a little bit
sorry for Cousin Frank. He has been
rather badly used. Still, I could not

help it. I could not have married him.*

I don't think, you know, that you need
be afraid of his wanting you to do so after
this,' said Tony Gainsborough, drily.

Violet,' put in Essie, ' has been in such
an awful fright all day lest we should
be telegraphed after, and caught. I could
not help laughing when I thought of it.
It would have been such an awful climax

Ah, you were not going to be married
next month,' remarked Violet.

'Well, I think you may consider yourselves
safe now,' said the uncle ; ' unless we
find a policeman with a telegram waiting
for us on the pier.'

You wouldn't send us back, uncle ?'
exclaimed Essie.

Well, perhaps not,' admitted Uncle
Tony.

But there was no policeman on the pier.
VOL. I. G

Only a four-oar cutter, waiting, and a man
with a lantern.

The girls were soon in the boat.

Where is the yacht, Uncle Tony ?' said
Violet.

Lying off, about a mile and a half
out.'

He sat down in the stern and took the
yoke-lines ; the girls were on his right and
left.

All ready ?' he asked.

No, uncle, wait a minute,' said Essie.
- ' What is it ?'

Ask the man to hold the light near. I
am going to write a line to grandpa.
May I ? It will put a stop to his hunting
after us all over the country, you know.'

All right — as you please.'

Essie drew a little pocket-book from her
pocket, and, having opened it on her knees,

unfastened a pencil from her watch-chain.
The man with the light bent down, holdings
the lantern at her shoulder. The imperfect
light fitfully illumined the boat, and
the calm water round it, the little group in
the stern-sheets, the sailors in their loose
shirts resting on their oars, and the iron
piles of the pier above them. Whilst the
waves sobbed and splashed against the side
of the boat, Essie wrote,

'Dear Grandpa,

I write this on
my knees in Uncle Tony Gainsborough's
cutter, as we are waiting under the lee of
the pier at Huntington before putting olF
to his yacht. 4

Violet was quite unable to face marriage

with Cousin Frank. She is very sorry for

it, and you can tell him so ; but she does

q2

not care a bit for him, and would never
have promised to marry him if we had
not wanted so dreadfully to get away from
No 19, Welmore Street, where we were both
so miserable, as you must know. However,
Uncle Tony has promised us that neither
of us shall ever come back to live with you
so we will let bygones be bygones, and
say no more about how wretched you
have made us every day for two whole
long years.

We have left a lot'of things behind us.
You can do just what you like with them,
and we have paid all our bills.

It will be of no use for either you or
Cousin Frank to hunt after us. But, as
you might feel inclined to do so, I am
unable to tell you anything about our
plans.

Violet and I hope that you will think

of what Dr. Beauchamp told you, and leave
off over-eating yourself. — Your affectionate
and dutiful grand-daughter,

Essie Chesterfield.'

She had brought with her an envelope
directed to General Chesterfield, and she
slipped the paper into it. Tony Gainsborough
passed it over to the man who
held the lantern, giving him a shilling
and telling him to post it. Then he gave
the Avoid,

• Give way.'

And the cutter left the jetty, cleaving
her way, through the calm, gently rippling
water, to where the lights of the steam-yacht
shone out at sea.

CHAPTER VII.

Fro?»i his grandfather's house, Warrington
went to his own chambers. It was a relief,
after a day of excitements and fatigues of
so unpleasant a kind, to find himself, once
more, at last at home, and he put the
latch-key into the lock of his own door
with a feeling of coming into port, after
shipwreck, it is true, but, still coming into
port.

He passed through the small lobby, and
entered the dining-room.
A bright fire blazed on the hearth, and a

lamp on the table shed a pleasant light
around the comfortable, rather tastefully
furnished room. Folding-doors leading
into the next room were open, and there
the clicking of some machine at work was
audible.

A man sittin^rat a little table was busily
at work with a Remington type-writer. As
Frank Warrington approached him, he
spoke, without looking up.

Why, Frank, where have you been all
day?'

Where, indeed ? You may well ask,
my dear Eustace,' replied Warrington,
throwing himself into a bi": arm-chair.

The other rose, and came towards him.

He was Frank Warrington's brother,
and very like him; nearly of the same
height, but fairer and much more slightly
built, and with more delicate features:

features that presented less of actual
masculine handsomeness, but more of
sculpturesque refinement; a finer, more
spiritual type — if the term may pass —
something almost feminine, that was enhanced
by the pensive expression of a face
in which, though it had a light of its own,
there was a great blank : for the eyes were
closed. Eustace Warrington was blind.

Why, what has happened ?' he asked,
sitting down in the chair opposite his
brother with that perfect ease of the blind
which suggests the idea of sight being a
rather superfluous accomplishment.

In the first place,' replied Frank
Warrington, ' it is all over between me and
Violet.'

'Finally?'

'Finally, Eustace,' answered Warrington,
with emphasis.

And how so ?' asked the blind man,
very quietly.

The girls have bolted from grandfather.'

Where are they gone ?'

'That we don't know.'

Eustace Warrington leaned forward and
seemed to think.

Grandfather has treated them very
badly,' he said, meditatively, *and they
have been very unhappy with him.' Then,
raising himself, he said : ' Where and how
did all this happen ?'

Warrington related the history of the
day, and made no scruple about expressing
his opinion of the Misses Chesterfield's
behaviour.

Talking is intoxicating. A man may
think much, and feel deeply ; but, whilst
he only thinks and feels within himself,
it is singular how little his passions are

moved, either by his feelings or by his
speculations. It is when he proceeds to
speak, to give his soul utterance in the
hearing of other men, that he is carried
away. Telling his brother what had
occurred, Warrington became very soon
bitter beyond measure. And, still, harsh
as the things were that he said, none of
his language seemed to himself sufficiently
to express the savage anger against his
cousin, and the profound indignation at
the way he had been used, that was seething
within him.

Eustace heard him attentively, seldom
interrupting him. Only, as his brother's
language became more passionate, he
repeated what he had said before, very
quietly.

'The girls have been very unhappy
with grandfather, much more so than

you have imagined. Of course you did
not see it. You people who see are
always blind to that sort of thing. But
I assure you those two girls have been
miserable.'

However grandfather treated them, he
treated them better than they deserved,
and the event has proved it,' returned
Warrington.

At the end came the real question,
What was to be done ?'

There was no hope of the affair being
quietly hushed up. Arrangements for a
wedding had gone too far, and the general's
servants knew what had happened. And
the general himself would not be reticent.
As soon as he had got over his first twenty-four
hours of rage, the old fellow would
cast about him for an explanation of what
had occurred that would make the case

look best for himself. Both his grandsons
knew that. No doubt all the blame would
be laid upon Warrington. Rather than
marry him, Violet Chesterfield had bolted,
and made her sister go with her. And
then the assistance that Warrington had
lent his betrothed to get away from
him : his persuading the general, and
seeing his cousins off, and all the rest
would make a magnificent story, which
the general would know only too well
how to relate to his friend Colonel Dissonant
to old Tyler of the War Office, and
little Jack Grafton of the Blues. And two
hours after that the thing would be allover
London.

Only Warrington trusted that he would
be before then out of the way of hearing
about it. Only the question was, where
should he go ?

La nuit sorte conseil said Eustace.
Let us leave it till tomorrow. So far as I
can see, you have had nothing to eat since
breakfast. We will have supper now.
Whilst it is being brought up, I'll finish
my letters, and we will leave the discussion
of our plans until tomorrow.'

His advice was good. It is not until
after a night's rest that a man learns, ina
case like this, justly to appreciate his
new situation. On waking, Warrington
seemed to himself hardly, on the previous
day, to have understood what had taken
place, and only now to comprehend that
he had lost the girl he had hoped to
marry, and all that that implied ; the
singularly ridiculous figure he himself was
likely to cut when the story got abroad ;
and many other things, unhappily none of
them pleasant.

As for the young lady — well, he was
well rid of her, and would be a fool if he
regretted her. The pretty little escapade
of running away from her grandfather was
enough of itself to cure any man of judgment
from wishing to have Miss Violet
Chesterfield for his wife. And unhappily,
in addition to that, Frank Warrington
could, with truth, lay to her charge other
delinquencies still more serious.

When they were first engaged, his cousin
had been cold and unresponsive. When a
date for the marriage came to be talked
about, she only, after considerable delay,
consented, with evident reluctance, to name
the wedding-day. But a week or so latera
gradual change came over her. The
marked coolness of her manner disappeared.
When Warrington came to see her she received
him with smiles, and showed herself

amiable and responsive, almost affectionate.
That, then, Warrington inferred, was the
date when she first laid her plans to escape
from him, and began to see her way to
carrying them into execution. If so, it
was not difficult to find ugly words for the
disino^enuousness of a girl who began to
be indulgent to her lover as soon as she
saw her way to deceiving him.

And these considerations rendered more
easy the bitterness with which Frank Warrington
proceeded next to judge the finishing
stroke of his faithless mistress's deceit,
and the malice that had found amusement
in making him an accomplice in his own
humiliation.

It did not occur to him to remember
that it was not Violet but her sister who
bad found so much amusement in his part
of the escapade, and had entertained him

with the legend of Mr. Smith. Neither
did he reflect that it was quite possible
that Violet Chesterfield had made use of
his assistance with reluctance, and only
because her escape was impossible without
it. He was far too angry to give really
cool thought to anything, and he summed
up his verdict on the whole affair in a
single little word — ' low.'

When a woman behaves very badly to a
man who is really attached to her, the
man does one of two things. Either he
forgives her and then loves her ten times
better than he did before, or, if he does
not forgive her, he sooner or later hates
her. A man seldom forgives a woman for
being unladylike. A man seldom forgives
a woman who wounds his amour propre.
A man never forgives a woman who
wrongs him and then disappears. To

pardon, he must at least be able to see lier.

And Warrington was beginning to be
aware already of a revulsion of feeling that
turned against his mistress, and grew sour
with hatred. Probably, had he tried, he
could not have helped it. And perhaps
he would have been a rather poor-spirited
mortal if he had tried. Men are not to be
asked to retain their esteem for women
in spite of anything the woman may
do.

Having got thus far whilst dressing and
shaving, Warrington proceeded to breakfast.
Eustace was already waiting for
him. Over the breakfast-table the brothers
discussed what should be their plans;
Warrington a little sulky and very savage,
Eustace quiet and cool as he always
was, and, as he often was, a little philosophical.


VOL. I. H

you've been badly treated by your
fiancee Frank he admitted. ' The best
thing you can do is to forget it.'

No doubt : only how?'

Let us go down to that place in Dorset-shire,
and, instead of selling it, live there.
You won't be wanting now to marry for a
year or two.'

For a year or two ! Never, my dear
fellow. I have had a lesson in what
women are. You don't find me putting
my neck into that noose again.'

That may be, or not. Only, if you are
not going immediately to marry, there is
no reason why we should not go and live,
at any rate for a time, at Lynhurst. You
will be able to afford to spend something
on the place, and that may very likely in
the end pay you well. At any rate, you
can hunt, and I will grow roses. To live

in the country will be paradise to me. So
I propose that we betake ourselves to
Lynhurst. But I don't want to be selfish.
Take the day to think about it ; to see
whether you would like it, too. And
we will talk the matter over again in the
evening.'

It is certainly worth thinking of,'
admitted Warrington.

Rising from the breakfast-table, he
lighted a cigar, and asked,

'You see a good deal, Eustace, that
most of us do not see. Did you think this
affair between me and my cousin would
end like this ?'

'No, I did not. I thought that she
would marry you. May I tell you
why?'

Pray, do not hesitate.'

I thought she would marry you to get

h2

away from grandfather. Only, you see, she
has managed that somehow else.'

Cutting, Eustace.'

'The truth, Frank.'

Warrington went out to see the general,
and left Eustace alone.

Frank has been shamefully used,' said
the blind man to himself ' But he was a
good deal too ready to believe that the
ofirl admired him and liked him more than
she did. And, of course, he was ignorant
of how miserable she and her sister were
with the general. Though why people
should be able to perceive less with five
senses than with four is an odd problem.
Now, too, of course, Frank will be out of
humour with all the sex.'

He was right about that. When a man
has singled out one amongst women as
more worth believing in and loving than

all the rest, and found her faithless, it is
easier for his vanity to change his opinion
of all womankind than to confess his
personal incapacity to distinguish a woman
worth having.

And, making his way to the general's,
Warrington was soliloquizing thus : ' One
hears it said, that women arc a bad lot.
But I have never hitherto given my assent
to it. Only this is a somewhat staggering
experience. I should have said that those
two girls were ladies — if there be any such
things. Only it seems that " lady " is far
from being the correlative of " gentlewoman."
'

He found the general in bed, ill, and
very, very cross. The old man was hungry,
and had not been able to eat his breakfast.
Warrington was rather alarmed at his yellow
appearance. But the general was so out

of temper, so furious that his granddaughters
should have run away from his
house, so angry at the failure of his
cherished scheme of marrying his eldest
grandson to his eldest granddaughter, so
put out about the breakfast he had not
been able to eat, and so resolved to mix
all these subjects together, that no connected
conversation of any kind was to begot
from him.

While Warrington was with him, Essie's
letter arrived. The doctor had just called,
and insisted on the general's being kept
quiet. Of course the letter put him into
a frightful passion ; to crown which he
declared his intention of having everything
that the doctor had forbidden for
luncheon.

On Frank Warrington the note had no
effect of any kind. He had made up his

mind about the Misses Chesterfield, and
Essie's letter merely served to confirm him
in his opinion.

For the rest, he was thankful enough to
find that there would be no occasion to
make investigations about what had become
of the girls.

When he returned to his brother at
dinner-time, he said,

I have been thinking of your proposal,
and I like it. We will go down and live
at Lynhurst. And we'll see whether we
can't do some good with the place. And
at any rate we shall be out of the reach
of hearing anything about this affair,
and out of the way of all these cursed
women.'

Lynhurst must be a strange place if
there are no women there,' thought
Eustace to himself; 'and Frank must

know that as well as I.' But aloud he said
only, ' That is it, then. We'll go down to
L3^nhurst.'

CHAPTER Viii.

So after all the new master of Lynhurst
did not sell the place, but came to live
in it.

The brothers sent down their furniture
and Frank Warrington's horses. They put
up at the * London Hotel,' and had the small
suite of rooms, in which the former owner
of Lynhurst had lived, refurbished, and a
part of the large, long-empty stables made
fit for use. And in a very few days they
had established themselves, comfortably

enough for bachelors, in their new home,
and began to look about them.

They found that they had a good house,
a handsome house it would be if put into
repair, and properly furnished, and what
might be a beautiful place if they could
find the judgment, money, and energy to
make it so. They had what might be
capital preserves ; they had what might be
beautiful pastures. The point was to make
them such. The dilapidation were terrible,
and the mortgages very formidable. But
the enterprise of redeeming the place was
an engaging one, and the young men
entered upon it at any rate with zest
and spirit, and a resolution to do their
best.

They had come to live in a quiet way
and they carried out their intention. They
breakfasted at an earlier hour than in town.

and devoted the mornings to business, to
becoming acquainted nth the property, to
seeing what could be done for it, and to
making arrangements to have it done.
Together they went about all over the
place on foot ; and what a treat that was to
Eustace, who was fond of walking, and
promised himself soon to be so familiar
^vith the whole neighbourhood that he
would be able not only to walk about his
brother's estate unaccompanied, but to
stroll down to the little town, and to
manage all his own business there without
the assistance of his valet, indispensable in
London.

In business matters, meanwhile, in the
choice of servants, employment of hands,
and other such affairs, he proved of
the greatest service to his brother. His
delicate ear was so quick to detect in the

turn of a voice indications of incapacity or
deceit, which people, accustomed to study
to deceive the eye only, were negligent to
conceal. In the evenings the brothers had
the same pastimes as in town. Warrington
read aloud, or they sat down together
to chess, or Eustace took out his violin,
or opened the piano. In the big house,
Eustace could enjoy his indoor pleasures
better than in town, as well as in the
grounds those of the open air. A grand
piano would have somewhat crowded the
London chambers ; but here he had one
of the large rooms opening from their little
suite for a music-room. Frank Warrington,
devoted to his brother, had at least
this gratification, if no other, from his
country life, to see how enormously Eustace's
pleasures had been in an instant
enlarged. Even the site for the rose-garden

had been already chosen, and the
ground partly laid out according to Eustace's
design, and some of the rose-trees
planted.

Lynham, however, was a little disappointed.
Two young bachelors who came
to do the best thing they could for their
estates, and lived in rather a secluded way,
were not what people had expected. They
were both in excellent health, and so of
no use to Dr. Gregg. They preferred
having things from London to paying
fifty per cent, more for inferior articles ina
small Lynham shop ; and so were of no
use to the tradespeople. The elder brother,
who was ^ the rich one,' was reputed
rather morose, and the younger was blind
and poor ; and so they were of no use to the
pining virgins of Lynham. Howbeit, as
they came with excellent introductions,

and Warrington at once subscribed handsomely
to the nearest hunt (though he
made, and kept to, a resolution not to
follow the hounds more than once a week),
they were well received. The rector, and
Dr. Gregg, and Brown of the bank, and
the local solicitor called, and Eustace received
them, and was considered an agreeable
and accomplished young fellow. Being
at the same time less engaged than
his brother, and, like many blind people,
a bright conversationalist, fond of talking,
and always ready for a chat, he was considered,
in a small way, an acquisition.
But it was clear that the universally useful,
public-spirited, much-desiderated ideal
owner of Lynhurst had, after all, not
come.

A month soon slipped away. Eustace
already began to find his way, unaccompanied,

about the parts of the ground
nearer the house ; and Warrington was
deeply engaged in his schemes for doing
as much as he could afford for the estate
very much less, alas, than the state of
the place required. He and Eustace knew
still very little of their neighbours, though
they had already received two or three
invitations, one only of which had been
accepted, and that much more for Eustace's
sake than for warrington's. To Frank
Warrington, just at present, the greatest
treat in the world was to be left to
himself; to indulge himself with a long:,
solitary walk or ride, sometimes in the
country, sometimes along the long sands,
which presented, when the tide was low,
a promenade of several miles, and no bad
place for a gallop. The change of scene
and of occupation had done much to take

him out of himself, and to divert his
thoughts from recollections of his cousin's
behaviour. But, Ashen he did recollect
her, neither change of occupation nor of
scene served much to qualify the bitterness
with which he judged her perfidy, or,
rather, that of all her sex. At such times
to saunter by the sea, or to ride slowly in
the low evening light across the downs,
smoking a good cigar, and letting his
anger cook in his breast, afforded him a
savage satisfaction of a sort that will
perhaps be better understood by men than
bv women.

It was in this humour that he, one afternoon
late in November, strolled down to
the beach, after having been into Lynham
on business.

At four o'clock the sun was already
setting. The short afternoon was closing

apace and the few people remaining on
the beach were leaving it. The sky was
grey with dull clouds, a breeze, growing
chilly, passed over the sands, blowing
nearly parallel with the shore. The sea
was neither calm nor rough : a restless,
choppy sea that broke coldly in low, curling
waves, monotonously, almost mournfully.
A good deal of rain had fallen recently,
and the cliffs were soaked with moisture.
Down their faces trickled little streams,
whose ceaseless dropping made a wistful
accompaniment to the cold splashing of
the sea, and to the soughing of the wind.
The circumstances were hardly such as
anyone would have been expected to
choose for a walk on the sands, but they
assorted with Frank Warrington's humour,
and going down to the waterside he strolled
on along the beach.

VOL. I. I

The tide was rising, but had hardly
yet reached the half-flood, and there was
a broad tract of fine sand, tightly cemented
by the water it contained, firm and pleasant
for walking. Not at all displeased
to see the grey light fading, nor to have
the lonely beach to himself, Frank
Warrington sauntered on a long way,
occupied only with his own thoughts,
now and then stopping to look seaward,
not at anything in particular, but only
at the restless movement of the cold
waves ; and then again strolling on,
dashing away from time to time a
broken shell or a fragment of seaweed
that lay in his path — angrily, impatiently.
He was very savage this afternoon, savage
with that seething, fermenting anger
which works in all the male animals when
irritated by the caprices of feminine

humour. Somehow he believed that he
could with satisfaction have taken a
woman, any woman not too old, and
have stung her neck, just to convince
her what he thought of the whole of her
species.

The miserable lying wretches !' he
said in himself, sulkily. ' The devil take
the whole tribe of them ! I am afraid
there is no hope of his doing that. But
he may have me if I ever again put
myself in the way of being fooled by one
of them.'

And striking an ancient, listless shell
he sent it flying into the sea.

i2

CHAPTER IX.

He strolled on a long way. The tide
had yet far to rise before it could inconvenience
his return. The twilight began
to turn to gloom, and the beach had become
quite deserted. But when a man is
very angry it is pleasant to wander in
solitude by the sea with the shades of
night falling, and no light to be seen but
the white gleam of the surf.

The beach was not everywhere of the
same breadth. At some places the cliffs
presented to the sea a long flattish face, at

Others they advanced a bit, and then fell
back again, making small bays, or wound
in and out irregularly. There were points
where at high water it was not possible to
pass in front of them, and there the sands
were more level, broad plateaux of rocks,
bordered with sea-weed, stretched out towards
the sea, and the cliffs rose high
in tall, perpendicular peaks. Warrington
passed several of these headlands, having
satisfied himself each time, by a glance at
the tide, that he should be easily able to
return.

All of a sudden he was surprised to see,
only a little way in front of him, a figure
loom out of the gloom. It was so dark
that any object became indistinguishable
at a distance of a few yards. The figure
approached, moving very slowly, as slowly
as he was watkins himself Was it some

other man come to sulk by the sobbing
sea, in the dark ? No. It was a woman :
a girl. She was nearer now. A tall girl,
apparently fashionably-dressed, wearing a
high hat ; with her hands hanging before
her tucked into her muff ; walking slowly,
her head bent, and her eyes on the
ground.

When they were nearer, she saw Warrington.
He thought she started. Then
they passed quite close to each other.
Without turning his head, Warrington
stole a hard questioning look at her from
the corners of his eyes. And, at the same
instant, the girl, without turning her head,
stole a precisely similar hard questioning
look at him from the corners of her
eyes.

For a moment the two keen, searching
glances met — her eyes were nearly level

with his — and then both quickly looked
away.

*He looks handsome. "What on earth
can he be walking about here in the dark
for ?' thought the girl — it was Lily Hardwick
— as she passed on.

She looks pretty. What on earth can
she be walking about here in the dark
for?' thought Warrington, as he walked
on.

Stopping, and standing facing the sea,
he turned his head, and looked after
her.

He could just see her. She was walking
very slowly; had she, too, turned?
No ; her figure was disappearing — had
disappeared.

But he was mistaken, Lily had stopped.
Her curiosity had been as much exercised
as his. And across the murky night the

two had looked questioningly into each
others faces, and had seen nothing, and
passed on.

Warrington fell back upon his own
thoughts, and strolled perhaps as much as
half-a-mile farther.

A noise behind him suddenly arrested
his slow steps. It was a singular noise.
Was it a squall, a sudden fierce storm
coming over the sea, for there was a
sound of something rushing, a sound not
unlike water pouring heavily ? Only there
was a distinct rumble. It could hardly
be distant thunder. The noise had none
of the character of thunder. Perhaps an
explosion at a gunpowder magazine a
long way off. Only where were there any
magazines ? The sound lasted a perceptible
time, and seemed divided into three
intervals, of which the third was the

loudest and lon^^-est. Then a<]^ain all was
silent. Only the waves plashed on, and
the cold night wind moaned under the
cliffs.

Wondering what it could be, Warrington
walked a few steps farther. Then the
same sound reached him again. Only
this time it was briefer, and not nearly so
loud.

What could it be? He stopped again
and then turned back. He could not go
much farther. There was another headland
not far in front, to round which
required lower water. The breakers were
already washing against its base. And
the noise had awakened his curiosity.
So he turned, and strolled back towards
Lynham, keeping along by the gleaming
surf.

Before long, out of the gloom, came

again a figure. This time, too, walking towards
him. It was the girl again. Only
this time she walked fast. She had her
muir, thrust back like a great cuff, upon
her arm hanging by her side. Her other
hand was raised to her face. She was
holding something against her cheek — her
handkerchief, and she hurried over the
damp sands swiftly.

As Warrington was passing, she stopped.

I beg your pardon,' she said quickly,
in a soft, musical voice. 'But you cannot
pass that way, the cliff has fallen.'

'The cliff fallen!'

A great piece of it. It reaches right
into the sea.*

As Warrington only looked surprised
and said nothing, she continued, pointing
with the hand that was thrust through her
muff.

• There are steps in the next cove to the
top of the cliff.'

And she moved to go on.

But the water, madam, is already upto
the cliff that way.'

Oh, no. Not yet. Impossible !' she
answered, incredulously ; and with a tiny
bend of her head she went on.

Warrington knew that the water was upto
the cliff. He had seen it. He waited
till the stranger was out of sight, and then
he went on to inspect the fallen cliff. It
extended in a great landslip many yards
into the sea, and through the darkness,
that rendered any clear view of what had
happened impossible, were plainly audible
ominous sounds of the occasional thud of
stones still falling or of mud slipping
down.

Clearly he was a prisoner till the tide

should ebb. And so was the younof lady.
He turned and walked back in the direction
she had taken.

By-and-by he came again to the other
end of the bay. And there was the girl.
She was looking nervously at the sea which
was getting deep under the cliff.

Warrington passed her and looked at it,
too, for several minutes ; then, submitting
to necessity, he proceeded to light a cigar.

Lily Hardwick looked at him hard.
Was he not going to speak to her ?

The cigar was lighted, and Warrington
threw away the vesta, and, pushing his
hands into the pockets of his short coat,
proceeded to walk back in the direction of
Lynham. Lily had followed every movement
intently, and looked after him wistfully
as he left her.

But, when an instinct of chivalry is

innate in a man, a great many women may
treat him very ill, and yet, if he hinds a
young and pretty woman in a predicament,
he will not be able to avoid coming to her
assistance. So Frank Warrington took
only a very few steps, and then turned
back to the stranger.

I am afraid that it is no go,' he said
putting down his cigar, and pointing to
the deep water under the cliff, and taking
their common calamity for an introduction.


Ah, no ! But what is to be done ?*
asked poor Lily, in a tone that showed her
to be much more frightened than Warrington
had supposed, and very pleased to bespoken
to.

Nothing ; but to wait for the tide to
turn.'

But at high tide the water comes right

up to the cliff, all along the bay.'
^ Indeed ! Are you sure ? Anyhow it
cannot be very deep said Warrington, encouragingly.
' Evidently we are prisoners
here. And perhaps it may be as well to
reconnoitre whether there is not some
place above high-water mark. Suppose,'
he suggested, ' we walk along under the
cliff and see ?'

Under the cliff! Oh, no, thank you,'
exclaimed Lily, drawing back. ' These
cliffs come down. I've had enough of
them for this evening.'

You were near the cliff, then, when it
fell ?'

Near ! she was all but underneath it.
And when she heard the crack, and saw
the great black masses come toppling
forward in the gloom, one piece after
another, and each larger than the last.

with stones flying about in the air all
around her little head, — she hadn't had a
fright either, of course not ! She described
it all very graphically; but no more
going near the cliff for her, no, thank you.

Warrington could not help laughing.

It is not likely that any more will
come down to-night,' he said, easily.
Anyhow, I'll walk along under the cliff,
and reconnoitre, and come and tell you.
Meanwhile, if you will pardon my offering
advice, you had better walk up and down.
It is cold.'

He proceeded to make his inspection.
All along packed close under the cliffs he
found a heap of broken sea-weeds and
rack, that proved the tide came up to
them. Only here and there a rock cropped
out, and offered a little coigne of vantage.
If the sea was not rough, the tops of those

rocks might remain dry. His investigations
being finished, he returned to his
companion in misfortune. Keeping the
end of his cigar in view, she had come
along with him, walking by the edge of the
sea.

'You are right,' he said. 'The water
does come to the base of the cliff. But
there are a few rocks here and there.'

Close under the cliff only,' answered
the girl, distrustfully.

'But the only alternative will be to stand
in the sea.'

Oh, good gracious ' began Lily, with

her breast heaving.

The falling cliffs had given her a fright
that had evidently unnerved her. And,
indeed the occurrence might have unnerved
courage made of stouter stuff.

'Come now!' said Warrington, kindly.

Don't be frightened. Our situation is
really much more ridiculous than dangerous.
At the worst we shall probably be
up to our ankles in sea-water for an hour
or so, nothing more. As for risks, there
are risks everywhere, are there not ? And
you see, after all, it is best to face them
pluckily. And I am sure you have some
courage, now, haven't you ? And so you
must try to be brave, you know. Now,
suppose we make the best of it, forget all
about the cliffs, and walk up and down,
and try to keep ourselves warm : may I
offer you my arm ?'

The girl hesitated for a moment, and then
quickly put her arm within his.

I'll try to be plucky,' she said, stepping
out by his side, ' but I am awfully
frightened.'

^ You have had a fright, you see — you'll

VOL. I. K

feel all right again presently. There is no
real danger. This is, in fact, only a very
ridiculous adventure, I assure you.'

I'm sure it's awfully kind of you to take
so much trouble to help one to get over
one's fears,' answered the girl, gratefully.
Light another cigar, do. I don't mind the
smoke, and I am sure you will enjoy it,
and some one may see the light and come
to help us.'

He lighted a cigar, and then they walked
up and down, up and down, on the beach
that presently grew much narrower. He
had travelled, and he talked to her about
things he had seen ; and he had read a good
deal, and told her about things he had read.
He was one of the men who had the knack
of amusing women ; and, listening to him,
Lily began to forget everything else.

But presently she said,

What a lot you have read. You seem
to have read almost everything.'

Oh, dear no. But I have a brother
who is blind, poor fellow ; and I read a good
deal to him. Often the same book, when
he likes it, several times over.'

Ah, then,' said the girl, a little archly,
I know, I think, who you are. You are
Mr. Warrington of Lynhurst.'

I am.'

And this,' thought Lily, ' is the man
whom everyone calls so morose and disagreeable.
I only wish there were more
men like him.' Still, she did not tell him
that : but requested only to hear the rest
of what he had been relating.

By-and-by, the sands being more level
on the top, the tide came in very fast.

'Now we must go to those rocks,' said
Warrington. ' You won't be frightened.'

k2

You'll stay with me

Certainly.'

It was horribly cold on the rock, though
he did his best to shelter her. He offered
her his coat, but she refused it.

No, no — no, no,' she said, almost crossly,
you want it yourself. I am not very cold ;'
which last was not true.

As Warrington had anticipated, the tide
did not reach the top of the rock. They
got a little splashed, that was all.

And all the time he still talked on to the
girl, keeping her amused out of a mine of
reminiscences that was apparently inexhaustible,
and which he had the art to
make entertaining. The tide turned, the
sea gave them back first a little, and soon
an ample tract of sand on which to try to
recover their limbs from the stiffness and
the cold, and at last, retiring from the base

of the cliff, set its prisoners free ; the whole
affair turning out, as Warrington had predicted,
to be a ridiculous adventure and
nothing worse. Only the girl, though she
showed a good deal of spirit in trying to
conceal the fact, was evidently ready to
sink with fatigue.

The steps were soon reached. Warrington
gave her his arm up them, and then
they found themselves in a lane.

You live at Lynham?' he asked.

No, I live quite near here. At Cliff
Cottage. Our garden has a gate into the
lane only a little way farther back. You
will come in, will you not?' she continued,
my cousin is sure to be up, and she
will be very glad to see you ; you must
be very cold, and you will let me offer
you something in return for all your
kindness ?'

But he declined. He would walk
straight back to Lynhurst.

They soon reached the gate, and Lily
opened it with a latch-key.

There is a light in the drawing-rooms
she said, looking in. ' My cousin is up.
Won't you come in and take something ?'

But he declined again.

Then good-night,' — she offered her hand,
and, with it resting in his, continued — 'and
thank you so much for being so kind tome.'


The door closed behind her, and Frank
Warrington went on up the lane. He
half wished now that he had accepted the
girl's invitation. Now that she was gone,
he was oppressed with an odd sense of
loneliness. What had passed between him
and this young girl — who had walked arm
and arm with him for a few hours, who

had managed to be brave because he protected
her, who had consented for a while
to rest her shoulder against his — that he
should feel so odd a loneliness when she
left him ?

CHAPTER X.

Lily Hawick followed a little path fora
short distance, and then, leaving it,
struck across the lawn.

The cottage and the fir-trees around it
made a single black mass in the background,
but in two of the lower windows
lights gleamed brightly through the down-drawn
blinds.

Perhaps your friends, missing you, will
send some one to find you. Did they know
that you were on the beach ?' Warrington
had asked, as they were walking together

on the sands. And Lily had answered :
Oh, no, my cousin won't send anyone.
She will know that I am somewhere.' But
now she said to herself,

I hope Maud has not been anxious
about me.'

She need not have distressed herself. In
the drawing-room of Cliff Cottage, prettily
lighted by shaded lamps and warmed by
a fire of glowing coals, Mrs. Gainsborough
was bearing very philosophically any apprehensions
to which her cousin's absence
might have given birth.

Seated, or more accurately rather reclining
upon a rug on the drawing-room
floor, at a little distance from the warm
fire, with her elbow on a low chair and her
head pensively supported on her hand,
Maud Gainsborough was idly regarding the
glowing coals, listening to the stillness of

the country night, unbroken by any sound
except the soughing of the wind amongst
the pines, and indulging herself in a long
reverie.

She was a woman in whose nature
reverie and imagination predominated
strongly. To-night, minutes had passed,
quarters-of-an-hour, hours, and still all the
time, moving only a little now and then,
Mrs. Gainsborough had been there,
crouched upon the rug, immersed in her
meditations.

Her thoughts were of a young widow, a
very young widow, one five-and-twenty
only, and in appearance quite a girl, a
young girl. The widow was tall and handsome,
and had brains, and — in a way —
courage. She had a graceful figure, too,
and a picturesque face, deep dreaming eyes,
and beautiful black hair. Her husband

had been dead some years. His death she
did not regret. Perhaps she loved him
once. Perhaps not. Certainly she did
not love him when he died. Their existences
had proved very uncongenial. And
the widow was well-pleased to be freed
from him, and to call her own, her beauty,
and her courage, and — her fifteen thousand
a-year.

This young widow of whom she was
thinking, naturally interested Mrs. Gainsborough
very much : for the young widow
was herself Hers the regretted husband,
who had died some years ago ; hers
the dark dreaming eyes, and the other
charms (perhaps she flattered them a little
to herself) only not hers, unfortunately,
the fifteen thousand a-year.

Mrs. Gainsborough was building air-castles
then? No. Not that either exactly.

The fifteen thousand a-year was;
only it was not Mrs. Gainsborough's —
though it might have been ; that is, if Lily
Hardwick had not stood between her and
the possession of it. Not that it was Lily
Hard wick's, either, though it might have
been, if Lily had been aware of its
existence and had known how to set to
work to get it. This fifteen thousand a-year,
which formed so integral a part of Mrs.
Gainsborough's day-dreams, was safe in the
custody of the Court of Chancery, wherefor
the present, having mentioned its existence,
it will suffice to let it rest.

And Mrs. Gainsborough had, instead of
this splendid fortune, an income of a much
smaller and more precarious sort, a little
jointure: one hundred and fifty pounds per
annum ; and an allowance made her by
her brother-in-law, Anthony Gainsborough,

two hundred a-year, on condition that she
lived at Cliff Cottage, Lynham, which he
let her have rent free. A very, very sore
subject this with the young widow, this
wretched two hundred,' and all the conditions
that 'that Anthony Gainsborough*
had attached to it. But when one has no
money, you know, how can one help one's-self?
It made only three hundred and
fifty. And Maud Gainsborough could not
live at Cliff Cottage on three hundred and
fifty. At least, so she had said to herself.
Howbeit, happily her cousin Lily Hardwick,
who was an orphan, had wished
very much to live with her ; and as Lily s
guardian had nothing to say to the contrary,
Lily came, and with her another
two hundred. Besides which, Lily had
a liberal allowance to do as she liked
with, so that the two ladies made up between

them something nearer seven hundred
than six. And on that they could
live.

Howbeit, although, with the assistance of
her cousin, Maud Gainsborough had arrived
at those happy figures, so vainly desired
by many — the number of pounds on which
to live is possible — yet the-widow's imagination
would at times, as to-night, busy
itself with that one thing wanting to
complete the ideal she had of herself — the
fifteen thousand a-year of her own. And,
when Maud Gainsborough fell to thinking
about that, her thoughts were generally
long and serious.

To-night they were very serious.

When she came in, it was a little before
dinner-time. She had asked of her
servant,

'Is Miss Hardwick in, Ann?'

Miss Hardwick came in and went out
again, ma'am

Where did she go ? Do you know ?'

She went into the town, ma'am. She
said she thought she should walk alonsr the
leach.'

They frequently walked into the town
along the beach when the tide was low.
The road was steep, and often very muddy,
and the sands level and clean. '

'You don't know whether she did go
along the beach, Ann ?' asked Maud.

No, ma'am.'

Maud Gainsborough went upstairs.
Before the maid-servant, she had allowed
nothing to escape her that could raise in
the girl any suspicion of the serious nature
of her information. But, on reaching her
room, she sat doAvn, and with her face paled
with excitement, asked herself,

*Is it possible?'

Just before leaving Lynham she had
heard of the fall of the cliffs. The whole
of the town was in a fever of excitement at
the news, for it was reported that there
were men out on the beach.

If Lily Hard wick had gone along the
sands to Lynham ?

Dinner-time came, and Lily did not
return.

I'll dine, Ann,' said the widow. ' I
daresay Miss Hardwick has stopped at Dr.
Gregg's.'

Lily was a favourite of Dr. Gregg's.

*At what time did Miss Hardwick start
to go to Lynham, Ann ?' continued the
widow.

About half-past four, ma'am.'

Maud Gainsborough thought :

And the cliff fell a few minutes after

hive. If Lily walked fast she had passed
the place. In that case she is really gone
to the Gregg. If she walked slowly — she
must have walked very slowly not to have
reached that part of the beach by five. Is
it possible ? But I shall be very sorry, too,
for poor Lily.'

The widow dined ; and went to the 
; and had her coffee ; and still
her cousin had not returned.

She took up a book and tried to read.
But the Avoids swam before her eyes.
If anything should have happened to
Lily!

Mrs. Gainsborough slipped gently from
her chair to the floor, and surrendered
herself to her reverie.

Suppose— not that the widow wished it ;
not at all ; she would be horribly sorry if
anything happened to Lily ; the amusing

VOL. L L

little puss ! — still, suppose that some
accident had happened ? Then — there Alas
nothing more between her and the fifteen
thousand a-year !

Could it really be true ? True, perhaps,
this very night, that that fifteen thousand
a-year was hers !

It was true, certainly — if anything had
happened to Lily.

Lily was not aware of the fact, nor had
the faintest suspicion of it. No one had
any suspicion of it, neither Lily, nor Lily's
friends, nor Mrs. Gainsborough's friends,
nor anyone in the whole wide world. The
secret was all the widow's own, and had
been so ever since the day when she discovered
it.

But — if anything happened to Lily.

Then the money was the widow's: yes,
this very night !

And, lying before the fire, Maud gainsborough
repeated to herself, ' Can it be ?
Has ray day-dream turned actually into
reality T

She fell to thinking what she would
do, of the steps she would take : of the
letter she would write to Anthony
Gainsborough — ah ! what a letter that
should be ! And if the future that
should follow — that brilliant fairy-land
future.

Ten o'clock ! If Lily was at Dr. Gregg's
she would return soon now.

Half-past ten. And no Lily. Her
prolonged absence became strange, unaccountable.
Something must have happened.


Maud Gainsborough rose and rang the
bell, and gave orders that the groom
should go at once into Lynham to Dr.

l2

Gregg's and find out if Miss Hardwick was
there.

The man returned a little after
eleven.

Miss Hardwick had not been at Dr.
Gregg's, — and the cliff had fallen.

Mrs. Gainsborough asserted at once her
disbelief that the cliffs had anything
to do with Miss Hardwick's absence.
Miss Hardwick must be at Mrs. Brown's,
or perhaps at the rectory, they always
kept late hours at the rectory. She would
sit up for Miss Hardwick. Ann and the
cook could go to bed.

And she sat down again on the rug
before the fire.

Poor Lily !

But the fifteen thousand ! A feverish
excitement obtained possession of Mrs.
Gainsborough ; her pulse became quick,

and her cheek flushed. The drawing-room
clock struck half-past eleven with
a soft, silvery chime ; and, overstrung in
every nerve, she started almost as if she
had received a blow. Then she sank again
into her former position.

Lily crushed under the falling cliffs !
Fifteen thousand a-year ! Alas it possible ?
Fifteen thousand a-year. After all : fifteen
thousand a-year !

Any other woman would have been pacing
the room unable to remain still, with
these torrents of excitement coursing in
her veins. But Maud had passed through
moments more feverish, even, than this ;
and her muscles had been schooled
sternly to obey, not her emotions, but
her will.

Still at last even she moved as if she
would get up.

St ! What is that ? — a step ? — yes — on
the lawn.

Yes. It comes nearer. And Maud
Gainsborough sits up listening.

A tap at the window and a voice :

Maud, Maud.'

Lily ! No fifteen thousand a-year tonight.


A momentary contraction of Maud
Gainsborough's handsome face ; an instant
of disappointment, disillusion ; and then,
as she rose, her lips parted in a smile,
and she almost lao-hed a little laus^h
at her own folly, with an easy toss of
her head as she came to the window to
open it.

Good heavens, Lily ! Where have you
been?'

Oh, I am half dead, Maud 1' said the
girl, sinking on a chair. ' I'll tell you

all about it presently. But, dear, give
me something warm to drink. I am perishing
with cold.'

Maud Gainsborough bustled about the
house, and, in fewer minutes than might
have been thought possible, she had prepared
with her own hands a cup of cocoa,
and kneeling before the drawing-room fire,
to which she had made her cousin come
closer, was warming some ox-tail soup ina
little saucepan. And meanwhile Lily
related her adventures.

Maud put her to bed, and brought her
up a hot-water bottle, and insisted upon
her drinking a little hot wine and water.
If the fifteen thousand a-year had depended
upon her cousin's life, not on her death,
she could not have been more careful or
more kind.

I only hope Lily won't have rheumatism,

or pleurisy, or anything serious,' she
said to herself, going to her own room after
having shut up the house and put out the
lights : ^ I suppose an awful cold is inevitable.'


CHAPTER XI.

Apparently the cold was inevitable. At
any rate Lily Hardwick had one ; and for
the next few days was confined to her
room. She even developed a little hacking
cough, and complained of pains in
her chest. Mrs. Gainsborough began to
be a little alarmed, and called in Dr.
Gregg.

The quality on which Dr. Gregg
most prided himself was his power of intuition.
One look at a patient, and
Dr. Gregg knew all about what was the

matter. The widow had mentioned that
her cousin had a nasty little hacking cough
and complained of pain in her chest, and
the doctor was able to make a good
beginning*.

*Ah, I see, Miss Hardwick,' he commenced.
' Now you have a nasty little
hacking cough, eh?'

^ Yes, Dr. Gregg.'

And a pain in your chest ?'

Yes, a little.'

'Ah, you see. I can see it all. And
when you cough it hurts you a great
deal?'

N-o.'

No ! Ah, well, in some cases a cough
of this character is not accompanied by any
particular pain, in other cases there is a
good deal of pain. But, I see, in your case
there is no pain. A tiresome little cough,

and a little uncomfortableness about the
lungs. And — now — you don't sleep very
well.'

Oh, but, yes, I think I sleep much the
same as usual.'

You sleep much the same as usual ?
Ah yes, you sleep much the same as usual.
Heaviness about the head ; eh ?'

He was feeling her pulse.

Yes.'

'You see, I know all about it, my dear
young lady. Cough, not painful ; some
uncomfortableness about the chest ; sleep
well, heaviness : pulse a little feverish.
But — appetite, eh ? now I am right, am I
not — bad appetite?'

Xo-o. I don't think so, doctor.'

No, not bad appetite. Well, sometimes
there is no loss of appetite in those cases.
I see — appetite good, sleep well. Tiresome

little cough — occasional pain in chest.
Heaviness about head ; pulse a trifle rapid,
but appetite good. We shall soon set you
up again, Miss Hardwick. I will send you
a little prescription which you will take,
won't you? We shall soon set you up
again.'

What an ass he is !' quoth Mrs. Gainsborough
to herself, standing by the fire.

No occasion for alarm, my dear Mrs.
Gainsborough,' said the doctor, reassuringly,
as he left. ' Just as well, though,
to have taken it in time. I shall send
Miss Hardwick a little draught.' And,
going along the little drive to the gate,
he continued to himself, 'Nothing of
importance. Send her something quite
harmless. Leave it to Nature.'

So Lily was left to Dame Nature, and
to her cousin's nursing. It was the best

thing that Dr. Gregg could do for her.
He was seldom dangerous, so Ions; as he
did nothing.

Healthy young blood, and the nursing,
soon got the better of the cold. After a
day or two in bed, Lily was able to sit
up in her room, and to amuse herself with
writing letters. At the end of the week,
though she was still not to go out of the
house for some days, she was downstairs
ao^ain in the drawings-room.

Towards the end of an afternoon — Mrs.
Gainsborough had gone into Lynham, and
not yet returned — Lily received an answer
to one of her letters, written to a schoolfellow
in London. She had related briefly
her adventure on the beach as the occasion
of the cold that had made her a
prisoner in her room, and in reply her
friend wrote :

'Your adventure, dear, really was very
nearly most romantic. The tide really ought
to have risen a little higher, so that you
might have been in some danger ; only justa
little, wee bit, but enough for Mr. AVarrington
to have really saved you. But, even
as it was, he was really most chivalrous
and, as he is reputed to be so morose., you
must feel quite vain. I am sure you will
like to know all about him ; and, as it
happens, I can tell you something I heard
only last week, and which \sic.'\ I believe
is half a secret. — The real reason why he
went to live at Lynham. Two months
ago, he was engaged to his cousin. She is
very beautiful., but quite heartless., and he was
most desperately in love with her.'

And here followed the history of how
Warrington was dujied into assisting the
flight of the Misses Chesterfield, with many

embellishments of the facts, and a lavish
use of italics. The writer of the letter was
responsible for the italics, but not for the
embellishments ; they were simply the
natural accretions the story had gathered
in town.

Lily Hardwick read it twice. She had
not yet arrived at the age that replies to
any history with an incredulous ' And
how much of that is fact?' and without
hesitation accepted for truth all that her
friend had written her. Putting down
the letter on her lap, she leaned forward,
with her cheek rested on her hand, and
thought.

She felt very sorry for Mr. Warrington,
rather indignant too. She would have
liked to have had it in her power to ' pay
out ' that cousin of his for the way she
had treated him. Poor Mr. Warrington !

No wonder he was morose ! And this,
then, was why he had come to bury himself
in the country.

She read the short concluding portion
of the letter, and, folding it up, placed it
in her pocket, and then went to one of the
windows.

Cliff Cottage was a pretty little place,
cosy, deeply clad in ivy and creeping
plants. It was only two storeys high, but
with more room inside it than anyone,
acquainted with the exterior only, might
suppose. A thatched verandah festooned
in the summer with creepers, ran round
three sides of the cottage, and, above the
verandah, low, half-dormer windows with
little diamond casements peeped out coyly,
amidst the thick ivy from under the
projecting thatch of the roof. On the
ground-floor the sitting-room windows

opened to the ground. Inside, there was
a little hall, rather dark, with quaint narrow
windows of coloured glass that gave
a peep into the rustic porch with its
low seats ; a good broad staircase of
shallow stairs ; and a really wonderful
number of fair-sized rooms. A greenhouse
flanked one side ; at the back were a convenient
little stable-yard and stable, and
coach-house. The Avhole lay planted in a
sheltered hollow, a little below the level of
the country road that ran behind it, and
hidden from view among a small plantation
of Scotch firs. Some of the firs grew quite
close to the cottage, even spreading their
broad branches over its roof. Before it
the lawn sloped only very gently, and the
garden, sometimes wider, sometimes narrower,
Evincing a little with the turns of a
natural hollow, sheltered by trees on either
VOL. I. M

side, descended slowly to the brink of
the cliff. Where the garden ended at
the cliffs edge, there was a ladder of
steps, leading down to a little cove, inaccessible
otherwise, except by boat, even
at the lowest tide. The garden itself was
exceedingly nicely kept. The closely-shorn
lawns, the tidy beds, in which the
many-hued chrysanthemums were just
now in all their glory, the neatly-clipped
shrubs and the handsome forest trees all
evinced the most ungrudging care bestowed
upon them.

Before Lily's view, as she stood at the
window, the view of the long garden
wound picturesquely down to the cliff
Beyond, closed in on both sides by the
leafless trees, there was a glimpse of the
sea. The sun was sinking fast towards
the horizon in a ruddy glow, crossed by

hard black bars of clouds lightly edged
with saffron, and the low light came up
the perspective of the autumn garden with
a charming effect.

How awfully pretty it is here !' said
Lily to herself, ' morning, afternoon, and
evening, lovely in every light ; and how
beautifully the sunset must be glowing
now, through the woods, at Lynhurst. I
wonder whether Mr. Warrington admires
the country. Whether all these lovely
sights go a little way to console him for
the way his cousin used him. I do feel
sorry for him ! Poor Mr. Warrington !'

Xo thing appeals to a young girl's heart

more strongly than a story of unhappy

love, and this story of the ill-usage of a

man, who, a perfect stranger, had been

kind to her, stung all Lily's feelings of

right and of generosity into a keen indigo



nation. She saw no ludicrous side to the
story. She saw only the wrong, the falsehood,
the cowardice, the cruelty, the
worthlessness of the girl who mercilessly
duped the man who loved and trusted her.
How angry he must have been ! And
how grieved too. If he really loved his
cousin so much, what a blow for him to
find that she did not care for him a bit,
that she was so worthless, so undeserving
of the affection of any man. And they
were engaged, too ! To be married in a
few days ! (that was what the letter said).
And he had felt it all so much that he had
come down here in the country to bury
himself. She would always think quite
differently of him now. He seemed altogether
another man since she had learned
this about him. How she wondered
whether he still cared for his cousin.

Surely he could not. Yet men did care
for women who behaved very badly to
them.

The door opened, and, Maud Gainsborough
entering, disturbed Lily's reverie.

In Lynham Maud had met sirs. Wood,
the rector's wife. Mr. Warrington and his
brother had been to dine at the rectory.
I\Irs. Wood thought the blind brother
^ very interesting, poor fellow,' Mr. Warrington
rather reserved. Oh, and Mr.
Warrington's name was Frank.

I thought you would like to hear all
about it, dear, as you take so much interest
in the gentleman.'

Thus said the widow in conclusion, with
a touch of significance.

But the one word that struck Lily was
reserved.' No wonder, poor fellow ! It
would be strange if he were not reserved,

if lie ever trusted anyone again as long ashe
lived, after the way he had been treated.

Quite easily she asked, sitting down,

Did you ask Mrs. Wood whether she
thought him good-looking ?'

Oh, yes, I said I had heard that he was
good-looking, and Mrs. Wood said it was
quite true. I am really becoming quite
curious to see him.'

She stood before the glass unfastening
her brooch.

Lily had taken up her work.

And so Mr. Warrington is called Frank,
is he ?' she answered. ' That is not a very
remarkable name.'

Everybody is talking about your romantic
escape,' went on the widow. ' It
has caused, I assure you, almost as much
sensation in Lynham as the fall of the
cliff.'

Has it ?' asked Lily, indifferently.

Turning over her work, she drew out
the needle from the stuff and began to
sew, quite unconscious that her cousin
was watching her.

'I have been wrong,' said the widow to
herself, ' I thought it was a smite. Particularly
when she wondered whether he
would call to inquire how she was. But
she takes it all too indifferently. She has
not lost her heart this time.'

Maud Gainsborough was quite right
about that. Lily had not lost her heart at
all. She liked the man, and, since she had
learned his history, she was very sorry for
him. And that was all. She was not in
love with him, not the least bit in the
world. A young girl very seldom falls in
love all in a moment.

By-and-by the ladies went upstairs to

dress. In Lily Hardwick's room, a bright
fire burned on the hearth. Its leaping
flames lighted fitfully the pretty room,
with its tasteful satin-wood furniture, and
blue silk curtains, and little girlish knickknacks
placed here and there. It was one
of the best rooms in the house, and Lily,
Who had been allowed to furnish it as she
pleased, had been a little extravagant.
There was a low wicker chair by the fire,
and the girl sat down on it, and again drew
out her letter.

Once more she read it through. She
might have spared herself the trouble,
for there was nothing in it of interest
but what was already sunk deep into her
memory. Then, rising, she crushed the
letter in her hand, and threw it into the
flames.

^ If he comes down here to escape from

all this, at any rate his secret shall be safe
with me,' she said.

And lighting her candles she proceeded
to dress.

Maud Gainsborough had said that Lily
Hardwick's adventure on the beach had
occasioned almost as much sensation as the
fall of the cliffs, and that was not far from
the truth. Almost everyone was talking
about it with that eagerness to talk which is
indigenous in small places, where there is
nothing to talk about. The same afternoon
some one mentioned it — nth a view to
obtaining, if possible, some further information
on the topic — to Eustace Warrington.
Eustace was a little taken by surprise, for
he had not before heard of the incident.
But he had more discretion than to betray
his ignorance. When, however, he and

Warrington were alone after dinner, he
said,

The other day, when you were caught
by the tide, and did not get home here till
midnight, there was a young lady, I hear,
caught at the same time with you.'

Yes ; some girl who lives at Cliff
Cottage.'

My dear fellow, I wish you had mentioned
the fact to me. Why didn't
you?'

'Why? I really did not imagine
that it was a point of any importance.
Why do you wish that I had told
you?'

Because, you see, everyone down here
has heard of your adventure ; and is
talking about you and the young lady.
And I, who had heard nothing, when I
was this afternoon asked about it, very

nearly looked foolish, I assure you. The
man who spoke to me was most desirous to
gather up any crumbs of information that
were to be had ; and if I had been taken
off my guard, and he had gone away in a
position to inform the next man he met,
"Do you know, Mr. Warrington's brother
had never heard of it at all, till I told him.
There is some mystery in it," he would
have been very much delighted. Whether
you would have been equally pleased is for
you to consider.'

They may say what they like for anything
I care,' remarked Warrington.

At any rate, my dear Frank, I should
like to hear all about it, if you please,'
observed Eustace, ' I don't wish again
to be taken by surprise, as I was this
afternoon.'

The request was reasonable, and Warrington

could not refuse to comply with
it. He made the story very short. The
blind man listened with a good deal of
attention, and asked at the end,

And Miss Hardwick — for, of course,
you have learnt her name by this time — a
nice girl, rather, is she not ?'

^I am not a judge of girls. I daresay
she is well enough,' answered Warrington.

He did not deny that he had acquainted
himself with her name.

The conversation dropped. But Eustace
had already learned, at any rate sufficiently
for the present, what he was anxious to
know. That was not alone what had happened
on the evening that his brother had
been imprisoned by the sea, but also why
Frank had been reticent about a part of
bis adventures, and whether his reticence
had any connection with an altered

humour which he had for the last few days
been displaying.

On the evening itself when he came in
from the beach about midnight, hungry,
cold, and distinctly cross, Eustace had had
at once a suspicion of something having
taken place beyond what his brother
related. At the time Eustace had conjectured
some little annoyance about
monetary arrangements, for which AVarrington
was seeking the assistance of the
local bank ; and he had purposely abstained
from asking questions, seeing the
business was not exactly his. Since then,
however, Eustace had assisted at six
distinct long jeremiads on the cursedness
of women, the folly of love, the peculiar
nature of feminine disingenuousness, and
the perfect impossibility of a man's being
sufficiently on his guard against the

knavery of young girls. A month since
Warrington lead declaimed in this way a
good deal, as indeed it was very natural
that he should. But since he had been
in the country, and had interested himself
in his estates, he had got the better of this
weakness. Now, the sudden recrudescence
of his complaint must have had some
cause.

Eustace believed that he could now
give a shrewd guess at what the cause
was. Frank had not returned to Lynn
quite heart-whole from the five
hours spent on the beach in the November
night with pretty Lily Hardwick.

And if he had known that Warrington
had not only talked to Miss Hardwick (ashe
said), but had talked to her as kindly
and encouragingly as it was possible for a
man to do ; if he had known that Miss

Hardwick and his brother had not only
walked up and down (as Warrington said) ,
but had walked up and down arm-in-arm ;
if he had suspected that they had not
only (as AVarrington had related) stood
upon a rock, but that the young girl had
been glad to lean her shoulder against
Warrington's, and that he had put his
arm round her to shelter her from the
wind — if Eustace had suspected anything
of all this — which Warrington did not
relate, — he would have been a good deal
more certain of his opinion than he
was.

Eustace was a bit of a philosopher in his
way, and he was not taken by surprise at
this new turn of events. On the contrary,
he found it rather natural. A man who
has just been badly used by one woman is
susceptible in the extreme of a sudden

passion for another ; and if, at a critical moment,
some young girl, bewitching, fresh,
uncorrupted, crosses his path, and shows
the faintest inclination to like him, he
succumbs to her fascinations almost infallibly.
And, that this might very probably
occur in his brother's case, Eustace Warrington
had conceived from the first,
especially when Warrington began to vow
and protest that he would never marry,
nor permit himself again to fall a victim
to the seductions of a woman. Do not
vows always imply a consciousness of
weakness? Could anyone be conceived
vowing not to do what he knew was impossible
? Briefly, in Eustace's opinion,
Frank Warrington was, without having
the least suspicion of the fact, on the
brink of falling in love. What would
ensue depended, unless Eustace was very

much mistaken, upon how much time
elapsed before Frank next saw Miss Hardwick,
and what mi^^ht occur on the
occasion of their meeting.

VOL. 1. N

CHAPTER Nil

That meeting the fates lead decreed should
take place soon.

In the middle of the next week there
was a meet not far from Lynham at a
somewhat popular spot, where a large
field almost always assembled.

The previous week Warrington had,
owing to business, missed his usual outing
with the hounds, and, the morning proving
promising, he announced at breakfast
his intention of going to the meet.

A numerous and picturesque gathering

was already assembled when he arrived,
forming under the winter sky an animated
scene of men and women, horses, drags,
pony-carriages, dog-carts, scarlet coats,
pretty costumes, well-cut habits, and rich,
warm furs, scattered in many groups with
the grey sky overhead, and the copse and
pine-woods behind, for a background.

Warrington rode up to some friends, and
was talking to the rector s son, when the
master came up, and, after wishing him
good-morning, said,

Lady Louisa is anxious to introduce
you to two ladies, friends of hers, Mr.
Warrington.'

But, really, Sir Robert — ' began Warrington,
not looking particularly gratified,
and preparing to offer some convenient
excuse.

Nonsense. Mr. Warrington, you must

n2

not refuse,' interrupted Sir Robert, 'I
believe that, as a fact, one of the ladies is
known to you already. But indeed you
must not disappoint Lady Louisa. She is
over there by the gate.'

Evidently Warrington was not left much
choice of action.

Crossing the field to where the master's
wife, in a dark brown habit, was conspicuously
mounted on a thorough-bred
bay, Warrington perceived with her a
young girl, a slight, tall figure whom he had
no difficulty in recognising, and a lady in a
black habit, with her low hat coquettishly
set forward over a very striking face.

There are two ladies, friends of mine,
here, Mr. Warrington,' said Lady Louisa,
after their first greeting, ^ who very much
wish that you should be introduced to
them ;' and, turning round, she presented

him: 'Mr. AVarrington, Mrs. Gainsborough,
Miss Hardwick.'

Lily was looking charming. Xot a trace
of her indisposition was left in her bright
young face ; and in royal spirits, anticipating
a good scamper after the hounds, she
was looking as sparkling and gay as summer
mornings sunshine.

Warrington addressed himself to her
first.

I hope you are none the worse, Miss
Hard wick, for that very cold evening spent
upon the beach ?'

The young girl's lips parted in an arch
smile that displayed her small teeth, white
as pearls.

'I had a dreadful cold for a few days,
but it is all over now,' she answered.

Maud Gainsborough was regarding Warrington
from under her brows with a fixed

gaze of her deep, dark eyes. The strange
intensity of that gaze had a resemblance
to fascination.

And the truth is, Maud was fascinated.
The first moment that she saw Frank
Warrington, something in his appearance,
his handsome, aristocratic face, his carriage,
the slightly reserved expression of
his features, or all these together, in an
instant attracted her regard, and held
it rivetted. When Lady Louisa introduced
him, as he raised his hat, and his eyes
and Maud's for a moment met, something,
that passed with the lightning
rapidity of an electric shock, troubled the
young widow, thrilled into the very core
of her being, and even made her, for an
instant, change colour.

It seemed to her that she knew this man,
had known him for years.

Something about him answered the most
familiar impressions of her recollection —
or of her imagination. It appeared incredible
that she had never seen him
before. They must have met somewhere
and she kjiew him. But she was also
sure that they had never met ; sure with
the most positive assertion of her reason.
She could never have met him, and afterwards
have forgotten that meeting. Till
a moment since, she had never set eyes
on him. He had not crossed her path
until this instant of their introduction.
Her recollection of him, as some one
familiar in another world, or known ina
previous state of existence, resembled
that strange impression of certain recollections
which comes upon the imagination
in spots never visited before. He
was the man that had been at her side

unseen these how many years ! in her
heart, in her dreams. It was his face, his
voice, his bearing that she had been looking
for, expecting ever since she had been
a young girl. Her real other self was
before her, the man whose name fate meant
her to bear, whom she had sought and not
found in her husband ; whom she had
looked for, and not seen among her many
admirers ; the ideal of her maiden fancy,
and of her womanhood's yearnings.

It all passed in an instant ; that recognition
that was not a recognition ; that
impression that was a fascination ; that
conviction that was in its first instant —
love.

She sat looking at him timidly, half
dazzled, listening to what he was saying
to her cousin, with her heart beating.

Lily too, though she was chatting with

him merrily, was regarding him with more
seriousness in her heart than her lauorhinor
lips would have let anyone suppose. This
pleasant, agreeable man, who was talking
with her, Alas the man who a few weeks
ago was so shamefully used, who held at
this moment the secret of it all in his
breast. Any morsel of the sadness of life
looks large and strange when it comes
near, and to Lily it seemed well-nigh impossible
that this man who was talking
with her could really be the hero of a
story of a deceit that had made her blood
boil with indignation. And yet she knew
that it was so.

None the less she was replying playfully
to something that he had said.

I think I mio^ht almost be cross with
you, Mr. Warrington. You might have
had the chivalry to come and enquire after

my health. Now, don't make excuses offhand.
Take your time to think of some
good ones.'

Warrington turned to the widow.

I hope, Mrs. Gainsborough, that you
were not very much alarmed about Miss
Hard^vick that evening.'

A little,' replied Maud, lying promptly.
I was dreadfully afraid, you know, that
she might have been killed by the fall of
the cliffs. I am sure that we are both of
us very much obliged to you for all the
care you took of her, and very pleased to
have found an opportunity of offering you
our thanks.' Having made this gracious
speech very prettily, she went on, ' I think,
Mr. Warrington, that you must know some
of my poor husband's friends. He was
Mr. Anthony Gainsborough's brother. You.
know Anthony Gainsborough ?'

I have met him. Rarely though.
You know, of course, that he is almost
always in his yacht.'

Ah, the lucky man ! yes,' said Maud,
dreamily. ' That yacht ! I was to have been
invited to go a cruise in it once. But the
invitation never came.'

'He is a strange man,' observed
Warrington. Recently he had found
Anthony Gainsborough a very strange
man : notably in the way in which he
had assisted the flight of the Misses Chesterfield.


Ah, you know that, then,' observed
Maud.

And she looked at "warrington significantly.
She and he had found already a
secret point of contact.

'You hunt often. Miss Hardwick?'
asked Warrington turning to Lily.

not very often, Mr. Warrington. I
like it, too much. You see,' she explained,
laughingly, ' to hunt one should be a little
bit staid, sure of never becoming over excited
by the chase, always careful to keep
on the safe, not to try ticklish jumps, to
be content to wait one's turn at the gates,
and not to mind coming up when everyone
else is riding away after the death.
For all that one requires to be rather
wise.'

And you are not always wise ?' asked
Warrington, laughing, and pleased to hear
her confessing so real a zest for the
sport.

^ Alas no,' replied Lily.

*I shall expect to see you ride home
with the brush, Miss Hardwick,' said Warrington.


Oh, no, please, don't expect anything

of the sort,' returned the girl, quickly. 'I
shall not be in at the death. I shall
have a good ;Gallop or two, and enjoy myself
thoroughly. But I am not a first-class
horsewoman, and you must not
expect to see me doing wonders. My
cousin here is far more likely to be in at
the death than I.'

The girl's modest disclaimer was as
pretty and natural as her previous confession
of keen pleasure in the chase.

You and I shall very likely, then, have
the pleasure of finding ourselves together,
Miss Hardwick,' observed Warrington ; ^ I
am a regular cockney, you know, and have
a great deal to learn.'

All of a sudden it occurred to him that
he was talking a great deal to Miss Hardwick,
and very little to her cousin ; and so,
turning to Maud Gainsborough, he began

to say something to her about Cliff Cottage.
The edge of its garden joined one corner
of his estate. In the midst of that the
hounds were thrown off, and, a general
movement ensuing, Warrington wished
the ladies a pleasant scamper, and said,
good-morning.'

It was some time before they got away.
One or two coverts were drawn without a
whimper, the field, in loose order, moving
slowly along the brow of the hill after the
dogs. Once, for a few minutes, — at a spot
where a little group were assembled, who
conjectured the place likely to be a good
one for a start in case they found, — Maud
discovered herself again near Warrington,
and was unable to resist the pleasure of
exchanging half-a-dozen words with him.
Then, all of a sudden, a holloa came from
the other side of the wood, a little way

ois, just as the dogs threw up their
voices.

In a moment there was a scurry and a
rush ; the foremost of the field were off,
and those around Warrington and the
widow wheeled to follow them. From
the other points, the others came up
helter-skelter, and then in an avalanche
they all swept away down the slope,
dogs and horses, scarlet coats and dark
habits.

In the fore-front was Lady Louisa,
Warrington and Maud not very far behind,
fairly in the ruck, and Lily amongst those
who were bent upon enjoying themselves,
with a certain regard to not being a nuisance
to the others.

Pug led them first across tolerably open
meadow-lands, with little brooks and low
fences. The fences little by little scattered

the more timid part of the field in search
of gates and convenient gaps. The hounds
ran fast, pointing for some way straight
up the valley, and only a pick of the field
kept near them. Presently they wheeled
a little to the left, and then came a broad
brook, and a plantation through which
the drives were narrow. There were some
catastrophes at the brook, and after the
plantation only the best riders had the
hounds in view, as they followed close upon
the fox. But, after a run of nearly half-an-hour,
on the brow of the hill, reynard
got into a copse, and then the thing was
to get him out again ; and meanwhile the
check allowed a good part of the stragglers
to come up. Pug was drawn at last, and
a fairish fresh start ensued over the open
downs.

Presently the ground dropped and there

came a flight of posts and rails, and then an
almost impossible blackthorn hedge with a
deep ditch behind. One or two very bold
hands ventured at the hedge, but the
greater part of the field turned to a gate
only a little way out of the line, whilst a
few, seeing the crush there was there, preferred
another farther out of the track, but
less crowded.

Chance favoured these last. As the fox,
making a wide detour, came round again
towards the hill, many of those at first
left far behind, striking out a bold line,
managed again to nick in with the foremost
of the hunt. Crossing a field Warrington
found, amongst a good many
others quietly taking their turns to pass,
one-bygone, over a stile in the corner,
Maud Gainsborough, keeping back a little
to allow others to go before her. warrington.

I.

ton had been over this ground only a little
time before, and felt sure that by bearing
a little more to the left he could take
a line better than those in front of him
were selecting ; and also one not involving
waiting for a turn. As he passed
Maud Gainsborough, he felt moved to
invite her to share the benefit of his
knowledge.

He would hardly have done that if it
had been Lily. He would have been on
his guard. But there is a way of showing
a liking for a girl, into which the most
cautious of men are easily betrayed, and
that is doing little kindnesses to the people
who belong to her.

And so Warrington, stopping for a
moment by Maud Gainsborough, said,

*Do you feel inclined, Mrs. Gainsborough,
to attempt that fence over there at a

weak point, say there,' — lie pointed with
his hunting-crop — 'We could afterwards
cut across the meadows beyond by a far
shorter route.'

I think I would try, if you would go
first;

They rode oiF together, two or three
others, as soon as they saw their move,
turning to follow them.

Bravo, Mrs. Gainsborough,' said Warrington,
as the young widow came over
after him safely, and very prettily too, her
neat figure perfectly balanced, as she sat
back, with her little hands well down,
setting her horse straight at the fence,
a momentary flush of excitement lighting
her classical face. He had broken the
way a little, and made a very fair jump for
her.

Across the fields they rode on together,

o2

keeping well in front of the others. The
line they were taking should evidently
bring them into a good position. But
presently, when they came nearer the
hounds, they met a rather wide water-jump.


you can do it?' said Warrington.
The taking off is good, and the opposite
bank sound.'

'There is one man in it already; and
those others only just got over.'

But they are lower down — it is wider
there. You will try ?'

A nod signified her assent. In her
heart she knew she would have put her
horse at the English Channel to keep with
him.

And they were over — both. But the
others had turned aside.

Up the hill. The pace was sharp and

the hill deepened. One of the ladies who
had been all the way hitherto in the front
dropped behind. There were then only
two others now besides Maud. The hounds
were topping the brow of the hill, and
began to disappear. Then the land became
less steep, and they were on the top.
And there are the hounds, tearing along
a level glade, with the fox in view, as it
seems, but a yard or two before them.
Some one goes a purl over a fence that
Maud crosses flying, following Warrington's
lead, she hardly knows how. The horse
of one of the ladies has refused that fence.
Maud has loosened her rein and is plying
her whip. Will it be really with him at
her side that she will get the brush ? With
only her light nine stone to carry, and
comparatively fresh, her horse flies with
her as if she was but a feather, and she is

neck and neck now with young Mrs,
Rivers, the best horsewoman of the
hunt.

And, at the death, a neck in front of
her.

All except the ladies have jumped off
their horses.

As the huntsman comes up with the
brush, there seems to be a moment's
hesitation.

Maud Gainsborough bows to Mrs.
Rivers.

I think it was a drawn race, Mrs.
Rivers,' she says.

Oh, no, Mrs. Gainsborough, the brush
is yours.'

And, as it is fastened to her saddle,
Maud turns and says to Warrington, ' I
owe this entirely to your kindness, Mr.
Warrington,' with a blush of such gratification

mantling her beautiful face
that the man cannot feel other than
flattered.

Lily came up, as she said, when the
rest were beginning to think of riding
away, having, nevertheless, enjoyed herself
royally.

The cousins rode home together unaccompanied.


You have made quite an impression
upon Mr. Warrington, Maud,' said Lily,
playfully.

But the young widow made no answer.
She had become very pensive. It was not
she, she knew, that had made an impression
upon Frank Warrington. She saw a
great many things too puzzling to be
understood by Lily's bright eyes. It was
for some one's sake else even, that Frank
Warrington had helped her, Maud, to van

that brush at her saddle-bow, or else she
knew nothing of men — and she knew
something about them.

CHAPTER XIII.

The new year came, and a cold afternoon
early in January found Maud Gainsborough
sitting; close to the drawing-room
fire at Cliff Cottage, with her feet
on the fender, taking herself to task very
seriously.

That morning she had done a silly
thing, a very silly thing. She had met
Warrington in the High Street, Lynham,
and she had walked the whole length of
the street with him. Really it seemed
rather a small matter to be distressed
about, but the young widow was vexed

about it, and she was vexed with reason.
First of all. it would give the Lynham
people occasion to talk, and Maud Gainsborough
could not afford to be cavalier
respecting what people said about her.
And in the next place — this was far more
serious — that little walk up the High
Street had been haunting her memory
ever since.

She and her cousin had not seen much
of Frank Warrington since the day of the
hunt recorded in the last chapter. Once
they had bowed on the esplanade, once
they had met in the Lynhurst woods —
there was a public way through a part of
the woods — that day he introduced his
brother who was with him, and the two
men had walked a little way with them ;
and once they had exchanged a few Vv'ords
at a small public concert.

But how large a place the owner of
Lynhurst had come to occupy in Maud
Gainsborough's thoughts !

She was not in love with Mr. Warrington
yet — at least, so she said to herself.
But if she allowed herself to be always
thinking about hira,if she got talking with
him and walking with him, Maud knew
how it would end.

She had been in love before now — more
than once. She knew all about all the
symptoms of the complaint from its very
earliest stages. And she knew, too, that
she could make Warrington fall in love
with her. Certainly she had no idea of
the vows and resolutions he had been
making to have nothing more to do with
women. But, if she had heard all about
them, she would not have attached the
faintest importance to them : she would

simply have replied that she knew she
could make him love her. And that was
the most dangerous part of it all.

'And that is just what I am resolved
to forbid myself quoth Mrs. Gainsborough
to herself, mechanically plucking at the
fringe of the fire-screen she was holding
before her face. ' He shall not fall in love
with me. I am not worth it, and I should
do him a very great wrong. I should be
drawing him into a match with a woman
beneath him, for I am beneath him ; and
I haven't a halfpenny. And he ought to
marry money, and to right his estates.
I've done some things in my time that I
ought not to have done, and I'll not add
this to them to wrong that man.'

The man himself had taken a fancy to
Lily. And Lily was just the girl he ought
to marry. A good girl Lily, and with a

nice little fortune of her own. Tt would
be a very fair match for Lily, and for
Warrington a very good one.

A strange shadow passed in the young
widow's deep eyes.

What a match it would be for Mr. Warrington
if he only knew ! If he knew, or
Lily knew, or anyone knew, about that
fifteen thousand a-year. But about that
no one knew. So that was nothing to do
with the case. Apart from that fifteen
thousand a-year, it would be a very fair
match.

The only question was. what would Lily
do ? Mr. Warrington was already far from
indifferent to her, hardly suspecting that
himself, apparently. But Lily, though
she liked him, was taking her time very
leisurely indeed to fall in love with
him. Still, gently she was going that way.

206 A WILY WIDOW.

The little witch was very attractive,
and Frank Warrington was handsome and
agreeable, and a very little thing might
convince the two that they were created
for one another. And these things happen
so quickly. Two people meet in the
autumn, and before the leaves are on the
trees they have bound themselves indissolubly
together to share all the pleasures
and face all the perils of life.

Well, supposing Warrington and Lily
did make a match of it, they would probably
afterwards be very happy. .

And here it must be recorded, to Maud
Gainsborough's credit, that the consideration
of the income she would lose when
her cousin left her, and the evident fact
that she would be brought back to the
galling monetary difficulties in which she
had found herself when she first came to

Cliff Cottage, had no weight with her at
all to suggest to her that she should stand
in the way of her cousin's happiness.

I'll manage somehow,' she said to herself;
'no one knows what may happen
between this and then.'

But her thoughts came back in another
way to herself.

That is all very fine. But if I do fall
in love with that man, shall I have the
courage to keep myself from making him
love me ?'

There were two women in Maud Gainsborough,
and she had a dim consciousness
of the fact. There vas the Maud Gainsborough
whose imagination was at rest ; a
not bad kind of young woman, with some
faults, but with a good heart and plenty
of judgment. And there was the Maud
Gainsborough whose imagination had

caught fire. That was a young lady
capable of a good deal : of a good deal
more than Maud herself suspected. And
if her imagination were not imagination of
the brain alone, but the more subtle,
and wilder, passionate romance of the
heart

It will never, never do to let it come
to that,' quoth Maud to herself; 'I should
have him, if I ruined him. Only, how to
prevent it ?'

In the evening, after dinner, she said to

Lily,

Lily, what should you say to leaving
here?'

Leaving Cliff Cottage, Maud ?'

*No, Lynham.'

'Leave Lynham !' exclaimed the girl,
with surprise.

'I mean,' explained Mrs. Gainsborough,

taking note of the tone of startled astonishment,
and lying diplomatically, ' if we
were to go abroad, perhaps for a few
months ; say next month, when the days
get a little longer. We might spend the
spring in the south of Europe.'

I should like to travel,' replied Lily,
slowly. ^ We might think about it,
Maud.'

Again Maud Gainsborough took notice
of the girl's tone, and of the phrase, ' We
might think about it.'

Miss Hardwick had her tricks, and one of
them was to say, 'We might think about it,'
when, in her own mind, she resolved not
to assent to what was proposed, but was
too polite to say so.

So it was some minutes before Maud
offered,

It is dull here.'

VOL. I. P

210 A WILY WIDOW.

I don't find it so, Maud. I am very
happy.'

Thought Maud : ' And so indeed am
I.'

A longer silence ensued, whilst she reflected
how quietly and peacefully pleasant
the life was that they led : an existence
that a good many people might have
envied. A pretty little house, and a beautiful
garden. Breakfast late, and neither
of them particularly punctual in appearing
at breakfast, if a longer and deeper slumber
than usual made them late in rising, or a
little beauty-sleep of another half-hour
suggested itself as likely to be agreeable.
And breakfast itself always rather dainty,
as were all the meals ; though they spent
a great deal less time over them than men
would have done under similar circumstances.
Till luncheon there were the cares

of the neat little house, and perhaps a
little exercise ; after it Walking, riding, or
driving ; for they could hack good horses,
and they had a pony-carriage ; paying
or receiving a few calls, tea, and a lazy
hour before dressing for dinner ; and
the long, careless evening ; music, magazines,
perhaps a game of cards. And, to
conclude, upstairs, where there were fires
in the bed-rooms, talk, as only women can
talk after they have retired.

It would have been strange if they had
not been happy.

Still, Lily's was a girlish, restless nature,
and Maud had surmised that possibly the
prospect of travel, movement, something
new, might have distinct attractions for
her. If it had not, it seemed to Maud
that Lynham must have attractions not
publicly admitted by the young lady, or,

p2

more plainly, that things between her and
Mr. Warrington had advanced further than
Maud had supposed.

'After all she remarked, 'it is not of
much use to talk about it. Very likely
we should not be able to go, if we wished
it. At least, you could always go, of
course. But perhaps not I.'

Lily looked at her interrogatively.

You mean ?' she asked.

You know what I mean, dear.'

Something to do with that horrid old
Anthony Gainsborough ?'

'Yes. You see, I should have to get
his leave.'

'His leave, Maud!'

Oh, yes,' replied the widow, bitterly.
I cannot go away from here without that.
You see, he lets me have the place rent
free, and, if I left it without consulting

him, he is as likely as anything to turn
nasty, and to stop the allowance he makes
me. And then, where should I be, dear?
I could not live upon what my husband
left me.'

And the widow leaned back in her chair,
looking dissatisfied enough at the state of
her case.

If I were one-and-twenty, you should
live with me,' answered the girl, with the
natural generosity of youth. ' Never mind,
Maud, I shall be one-and-twenty soon, and
have all my money. Then we'll snap our
fingers at old Anthony Gainsborough, and
do as we like, won't we ?'

To which the young widow said nothing.
She had all the will to snap her fingers
at her brother-in-law, and afterwards todo
as she liked, but not all the necessary
courage.

Lily noticed her silence.

'Maud,' she said, after a minute, ' what
was it that happened between you and
Anthony Gainsborough ? I often feel awfully
anxious to know.' — That was very
true. — ' If it is a secret, Maud, you may
trust me with it.'

I don't know that it is exactly a secret,'
answered the widow.

Then tell me, Maud, do !'

Maud Gainsborough seemed to hesitate
for a moment. But, really, she was only
asking herself why she should hesitate.
She had not a sincerer friend in the world
than this young girl, nor one more able to
be of use to her.

'Well, then, dear, you shall know,' she
said. ' But first, you must understand,
darling, that you are a very lucky girl not
to be married.'

^ H'm. It is a species of luck which, if
it be of too long duration, I am not sure
that I shall appreciate. Still, go on,
Maud.'

It is one thing to be married, Lily,
explained the young widow, ' and another
to find marriages turn out as you anticipate
; and of the two evils — I will grant you
that both are evils — not to be married is a
less one than to be married, and to discover
that you have made a big mistake.
/ made a mistake. Mr. Gainsborough was
in business : you know that. I believe that
he worked very hard, and was successful
and all that sort of thing. I have never
been able to see how all that could be of
the faintest interest to me. I know that I
soon discovered that his not having a
handsome independent fortune, as his elder
brother had, would make a much greater

difference to us than I had supposed ; that
the life we had to lead was hideously dull ;
and that he and I saw all these things from
exactly opposite points of view. He let
me have a large house, and, although he
said he could not afford it, allowed me this
and that that I wished for, and '

Maud Gainsborough sat up in her chair,
and continued, in another tone :

All that has nothing to do nth it,
Lily. To come straight to the point. I
met a young married woman about my
own age, who played — gambled, I mean.
And I went to her house, and joined in the
gambling. Of course, gambling is wrong,
but, people may say what they like, there
is no excitement under the sun equal to
that of playing with stakes, the loss of
which might make you uncomfortable.
And I, who was awfully dull, got quite

wild about play, and I plot up a little party
of my own, and we used to play in my
boudoir at afternoon tea for ever so much

higher stakes than at Mrs. . I won't

mention names. It was soon whispered
about that the play at her house was nota
patch upon what was going on at mine,
and women left her to come to me, and I
can tell you we had some scenes sometimes ;
and some excitement.'

It must have been exciting, of course.
Still it was awfully wrong, was not it,
Maud ?'

It was, and, of course, we all knew that
we should get into fearful scrapes if we got
found out ; we married women with our
husbands, and the girls with their fathers
and mothers. And now I am coming to
Anthony Gainsborough. Of course, Mr.
Gainsborough knew nothing about this

play ; at least, at first. I had taken good
care that he should not. But afterwards
he had to know, for I lost a lot of money
and could not possibly pay my debts. I
had some trouble to get the money from
him, but in the end I got it, and then,
somehow, his business affairs went wrong.
I never understood his horrid business
affairs, so I cannot tell you how that was.
All I know is, that one night he came home
and made me a frightful scene, declaring
that he was a ruined man, and sobbing
like a great baby, and saying that he
would have to be bankrupt. He fretted
a lot about all this and made himself ill.
However, in the end, he got some money
from somewhere, and his brother Anthony
lent him or gave him some more, and I
understood that it was all to come risrht.
I was in monstrously bad luck all that

time, and then, to crown it all, I had one
most desperate afternoon. I won't tell
you what I lost, it was something too
dreadful.'

The widow paused, and remained silent
for a minute. Then, leaning back in her
chair, she went on :

Of course, if I had won a lot of money,
I should have been an angel. Only as I
had lost it — I wasn't. And I had to pay
my debts, or some of them. And Mr.
Gainsborough had to let me have some
money. And so he had to be bankrupt,
after all. I suppose it was very disgraceful,
and all that. I can't Sdiy I understood
it, but Mr. Gainsborough upset himself
about it, most tremendously. In the end he
made himself ill, and the end of his being
ill was that he died. The fact is that he
was a man without a bit of pluck. The

only good thing I can say for him was that
he kept my secret for me. For you must
understand that all this time that he was
ill I was worried out of my life with
Anthony always about the house, wanting
to understand how his brother could have
been bankrupt after all, and I don't know
what else besides. However, in the end
Mr. Gainsborough died. The doctors said
of some affection of the heart. It was not
of affection for me. After his death I found
that I had only the most miserable pittance,
and began asking myself what on earth I
was to do. Then Anthony called, and
offered to make me an allowance of two
hundred a-year, and to let me live here
rent free, if I liked to agree to certain
conditions. And one of the conditions was
that I am not to leave Lynham without his
knowledge.'

You mean that you have to get leave
to go anywhere, Maud ?'

Yes,' answered Maud Gainsborough, ina
tone that expressed plainly enough how
far she was from liking it.

'Even, say, to go up for a week tO'
London.'

'Yes.'

'But, you really mean that this man
actually said to you, " I'll let you live there,
but the condition is that you never go anywhere
without my leave." '

He did not say it in those words.'

That was true. It had been said in
words Maud would not forget so long as
she lived. But she did not care to repeat
them.

'And you assented?'

I had to assent, you see.'

I'd rather have swept a crossing !' exclaimed

Lily. ' I'll tell you what it is,
cousin,' she continued, ^ I think what you
did was awfully, awfully wrong. But I
don't see what right Anthony Gainsborough
had to put you into prison for it. What
sort of man is he, Maud ?'

A man past fifty, tall, and rather handsome
; with about as much pity as Herod,'
answered Maud, quietly.

I'm sure I shall hate him !' remarked Lily.
Leaving her chair she knelt on the floor
by her cousin's side, and putting her arm
round her neck continued, ' Maud dear,
you are not angry with me because I said
just now that what you did was wrong?
Because it was wrong, you know. Still,
we were friends at school, Maud, weren't
we? Do you remember how frightened I
was the first day I came, and how kind
you were to me. And we'll be friends

always, won't we? And as for that old
Anthony Gainsborough, by-and-by, when
I have all my money, you shall live with
me, dear. And we will p^o where we choose,
and do what we please, and not consult
Anthony Gainsborough at all, the nasty
old thing.'

Maud bent her head, and kissed her,
and called her ' a darling,' and it was
somehow taken for granted that, until
Lily's coming of age put them in a position
to set Anthony Gainsborough at defiance,
things should go on as at present,
and nothing more be said about leaving
Lvnham.

But when Lily had fallen asleep that
night, ]fraud Gainsborough stole downstairs
with her hat and cloak on, and, going to the
little writing-table in the drawing-room,
wrote a hurried note.

Dear Mr. Gainsborough,

When I save
you my word of honour not to leave Cliff
Cottage without your knowledge, I received
in return a promise from you that, if circumstances
made my leaving necessary,
you would at once allow me to go. Such
circumstances have occurred; and I write
to beg that you will allow me to go abroad
for twelve months. I will live in any
place you like to name. But please give
me leave at once to leave England.
Yours sincerely,

Maud Gainsborough.'

Folding the letter without reading it
through, she put it in an envelope, and
directed it to Anthony Gainsborough at
his bankers.

Carefully opening one of the drawing-room

windows, so as to make no noise, she
stepped out.

The January night was cold, dark, and
cloudy. She only stopped for an instant
to look at it, and then drawing the window
shutters together, so that the open window
should not be noticed from the lawn, she
pulled the hood of her cloak over her
head, and, stepping on the grass, made her
way noiselessly towards the gate that
opened upon the high-road.

Half-an-hour elapsed, and then the same
cloaked and hooded figure returned across
the grass, stopped before the verandah,
looked stealthily around her, pushed open
the shutter, and, with a long breath of
relief, was once more safely at home.

No one had seen her.

She closed the window, refastened the
shutter, and threw back her hood. The

VOL. I. Q

room was cold, and the fire lead burned
low, but sbe sat down once more beside it.

She had done the best action she had
ever done in her life ; and her conscience
told her so.

Where, she wondered, was Anthony
Gainsborough ? How long would it be
before her letter reached him ? How long
before she received his reply? Would
the reply come in time to be of any use ?

The room was horribly cold. She would
go to bed.

Eight days elapsed. In the course of
those eight days, she met Warrington
twice. They seemed to be fated to come
together.

At last a telegram arrived from the
Mediterranean.

Let me know reason why you wish what you
ash in letters

How was Maud to answer? Could she
wire back. ' I am afraid I shall make a
man fall in love with me.' Impossible !

She threw the telegram into the fire
unanswered.

But she said to herself,

So it is all up ! Things must go their
own way, now. What happens will be
Anthony's fault. But God knows that
this time I tried to do my duty ; and that
I hate the wrong that I am going to do to
that man.'

And she dashed two big tears from her
great, handsome eyes.

A singular character, Maud ! AVhat
would prosperity, and a man able to guide
her, have made of her ?

q2

CHAPTER XIV.

Love grows of itself, and of itself passes
away ; in a moment springs unbidden into
being, and in a moment is gone like the
perishing of a dream. Man has just as
much dominion over it as he has over the
forces of nature and the elements of the
world, and no more. By knowledge and
observation and contrivance and by favour
of circumstance, he turns this too, as he
turns tide, and the fire, and air, as he turns
oxygen, and carbon, and gold, to attendance

on his pleasure and to the service of
his will : and that is all. Independent of
man, the tides roll on, and the great forces
of nature unfold and exhaust their powers,
and so love warms and cools, and man
must abide it.

For a fortnight the ladies of Chef Cottage
sav nothing of their neighbour. The
reason was simple. He did not hunt on
the days they hunted, and all the rest of
the time he was busy on the farthest part
of his estate. Meanwhile came oiF the
Lynham Christmas ball, one of Lynham's
few gaieties. Frank Warrington did not
go to it, and Maud returned home thankful,
and Lily disappointed.

Two days afterwards fifty yards of
the boundary wall of the Lynhurst estate
fell flat into Mrs. Gainsborough's garden.
When the gardener brought in the news at

luncheon-time, Maud Gainsborough said to
herself: this is fatality.'

We ought to send and tell Mr. Warrington,'
opined Lily, as forward to find
any good excuse for seeing or saying
something to Mr. Warrington as her cousin
for avoiding him.

Maud considered any such step unnecessary.
Mr. Warrington would be
sure to hear all about it from his own
people.

In the afternoon, Maud being gone for a
walk, Lily suddenly thought she should like
to drive into Lynham. So she ordered out
the pony-carriage, and drove down.

Once in Lynham, she drove several times
up and down the parade, and then up
the High Street, where her perseverance
was rewarded at last with the sight of
Warrington coming down the street.

He was a little surprised when she drew
up beside him.

Mr. Warrington,' she said, 'about fifty
yards of your wall fell this morning into
our garden. Perhaps you know all about
it.'

No. He knew nothing about it at all.

Well then, the best thing he could do
was to come and see. Would he drive up
with her ?

Warrington accepted the offer : and
Lily drove him up to Cliff Cottage. On
the way he offered many apologies for the
conduct of his wall. There was not a
wall on the estate that was not rotten to
the core, he asserted. He hoped that this
one had not done much damage.

Maud Gainsborough was still out when
they arrived at the cottage. So they went
to view the fallen wall together.

What a pretty place you have here,'
said Warrington, when that was done.

'Is it not?' answered Lily. 'Comedown
the garden, will you ? It goes all
the way to the cliff.'

So they made the tour of the garden,
and talked about the flowers. There were
a number of rose-trees, and already one or
two tea-roses in bloom. Lily mentioned
that in this little shaded glade, for such
the garden was, her cousin and she were
particularly successful with their early and
late roses.

I should much like my brother to
come and see them,' said Warrington. ' I
say see, though he can't see, poor fellow.
But he is a great rose-fancier.'

And he went on to talk about the
rosary Eustace had laid out at Lynhurst.

And Mr. Eustace AVarrington can tell

all his roses, and knows whether the
plants are in good condition, and whether
the flowers are all they should be, although
he is blind ?' asked Lily.

It is wonderful what he knows, even
that we who can see do not know : and
what he sees that we cannot see,' replied
Warri newton.

That served them for another subject of
conversation. Warrington invariably appeared
at his best when talking about his
brother, and Lily was so much interested
that it was quite a long time before they
returned from the further end of the
garden to the cottage. Maud Gainsborough
had returned, and Lily insisted that Warrington
must see her: and Warrington
himself was inclined to think that it
might look better if he did. So he
consented to come in, and to accept a cup

of afternoon tea, whilst he repeated his
apologies to the widow.

'Did he come to call, Lily?' asked Mrs.
Gainsborough, when he was gone.

No. I met him in the town.'

Maud smiled to herself She knew
all about accidental meetings of that
kind.

The restoration of the wall commenced
on the morrow with the removal of the
debris and went on for the next three
weeks. Work was not wont to be very
rapidly executed at Lynham.

But the number of casual meetings
that took place between Lily Hardwick
and Frank Warrington over the repairing
of that fallen wall were wonderful. Of
course, Warrington, like a prudent man,
had to look after the work to see how it
got on, and visited the spot, at least once,

often twice a day, to inspect progress, and
to see that the men were not wasting their
time. And then, if Lily was in the garden,
or at the drawing-room windows, there
was a bow to be exchanged, a greeting, a
smile. And sometimes Lily would stroll
across, and, warmly wrapped in her pretty
furs, stand and talk for a few minutes ; or
else they strolled up and down together,
sometimes on Mrs. Gainsborough's lawn,
which was being sadly trodden down,
sometimes on warrington's path on the
other side of the wall. Once, when Warrington
had his brother with him, Lily
insisted that Eustace should come and seethe
roses, and with her arm in his led him
all round the garden, telling him the history
of every one of their plants.

When the wall grew higher, there was
no more possibility of stepping backwards

and forwards across it, but they could still
meet, and stand on each side and talk ; and
for Warrington to lean his elbows on the
wall, and to talk sto Lily, whilst watching
the workmen, or for Lily to rest her elbows
on the wall and talk to Warrington, was
apparently quite sufficient amusement for
both of them.

what a pity Mr. Warrington should
look so much after the men building the
wall,' remarked the widow.

She had only spoken to Warrington
across it twice.

Why ?' asked Lily.

They would have been ever so much
longer about it if he had left them alone.'

Of course. That is just why he looks
after them. He would be robbed every
hour of the day if he did not keep an
eye on all those people he is employing.'

*Yes. But won't you and he be very
sorry when the wall is done, dear?' asked
the widow.

Lily knew what her cousin meant, and
made no answer, only said to herself,
I didn't think Maud could be so idiotic'
But the next day she did not visit the
scene of operations. Warrington strolled
over twice to see how his wall was
fi^ettino; on. But he saw nothings of Miss
Hardwick.

On the third day, however, when he
again came to look at the workmen, about
eleven o'clock, Lily was strolling up and
down the wide garden walk in the February
sunshine, and crossed over to him at
once.

If Maud liked to be idiotic, what did it
matter to her? She supposed she could
speak to Mr. Warrington if she chose !

And, besides, there was something she
wanted to ask him.

Warrington was in wonderful spirits at
that date. He did not know when he had
felt himself so light-hearted, or in such
vigorous health, or half so happy, and
careless, and free. All the anxieties of
the limited capital at his command, and of
his mortgages, and of the considerable sum
of money he was spending lay on him as
light as a feather. He felt sure of himself,
sure of his courage proving undaunted,
and his patience equal to any demands.
Success and good fortune in the future
were quite secure. Everything was going
right at Lynhurst. All he had done had
turned out well. There were contretemps
here and there, certainly — that wall
which had tumbled into Mrs. Gainsborough's
garden, and had had to be

rebuilt, just at a moment when lie wanted
the money for something else, and that dyke
that had broken, and turned all the best
meadows into a swamp. But everything
could not be expected to go on perfectly
smoothly in this world. And all he was
doing now was getting on royally, and
what he would do by-and-by would set all
the rest right. That they should comedown
and live in this jolly old place, and
rescue it from destruction was the happiest
inspiration his brother had ever had. He
never tired of repeating that. Life was
become a delightful exhilaration, full of
the keenest enjoyment from morning tonight.
He had never been so happy as he
was now, trudging about the place all day
long, working like a nigger, enjoying his
meals with the appetite of a rustic, and
entering into everything with the zest of

an enthusiast. Never had his brother
and he led so merry a life : never known
the days pass so gaily, the evenings so
pleasantly, as since they had been in
Dorsetshire. His good spirits even attained
to that superlative degree which
disposes a man to fall in, as far as possible,
with the wishes of everyone under the
sun ; and when the rector, after much
searching of heart, at last found the
courage to approach him on the subject
of his never coming to church, he surrendered
at once with a good-tempered, 'I
know what you mean. Dr. Wood.' And
the next Sunday morning he came to
church.

At which the young ladies of Lynham
turned up their noses, and said that he
had come to hear Mrs. Gainsborough and
Miss Hard wick sing in the choir.

He was in excellent spirits with himself
about Miss Hardwick.

Saw the little Hardwick again to-days
he said to his brother, one evening at
dinner. ' She was walking up and down
in the garden, and we had quite a long
talk. A nice girl that, a straight-forward
girl, with no nonsense about her, and a
good heart, I should say. Deucedly pretty
too, and rides well ; better than she thinks.
I enjoyed a chat with her very much.
The fact is, Eustace, there is a lot to
enjoy in the society of women, if a man
has only once made up his mind not to
have too much to do with them. That is
the secret of the thing. A man is not on his
guard against consequences, and then he
gets falling in love, and all that sort of nonsense.
Or, at least, he knows that walking
about and talking to a girl may end in his

VOL. r. R

marrying her ; and that spoils it all. When
a man has once had the sense to say to
himself that he is not going to go in for
any of that, that he means to keep himself
within bounds, there is a lot to enjoy
in the conversation of a straight-forward
girl;

All of which was very philosophic, only
it was a strange thing that there was no
part of the estate to which Warrington
so seldom invited his brother to accompany
him as to that wall bordering Mrs. Gainsborough's
garden.

And, whatever Warrington's views might
be, his pretty friend on the other side of
that wall was beginning rapidly to entertain
less and less platonic ideas of the
situation, and to open her bright blue eyes
very widely on the truth.

A great part of the wall was finished

right up to the coping-stones, when she
began, in her counsels with herself, to rise
rapidly through such degrees of confessed
regard as, ' I like Mr. Warrington.' ' I do
like Mr. Warrington.' * I like him awfully.'
I like him most awfully.' And then came
a mild afternoon in February ; one of those
soft afternoons which tell that the spring is
really coming. Maud was gone to a 
at the rectory, for the widow
much studied all the little things that provide
a woman with allies. Lily, who made
no pretence of liking working-parties, stayed
at home, and that afternoon there was a
long talk over the wall ; Lily leaning
against it, with one elbow rested on the
top, and the low, westering sun shining
softly into her lovely young face, and
Warrington talking to her about — why,
about nothing. A good part of the time

■r2

neither of them were saying anything,
only the man feasting his eyes on the
girl's exquisite face, as she stood with her
eyes cast on the ground, and she simply
happier than she could tell, merely because
she was with him, because she ' liked him
most awfully.'

At last they parted (for the evening
shadows began to fall), and laughingly
said, ' Good-night.' Their eyes met as he
pressed her little hand in his, and she
could not resist the temptation to return
the pressure. ' She liked him so awfully,'
and was so willing that he should know it.

But she did not go in. She only made
sure that he was not watching her, and
then turned and strolled down the garden
towards the cliff slowly, slowly.

I wonder whether I ought to see him
so often, to talk to him quite so much ?'

That was the question the pretty little
head was pondering.

I do like him so awfully, and I do feel
so sorry for him, poor fellow. And I don't
mind a bit if he knows it. But I should
not like him to think me forward. He
does not seem as if he did think me so ;
not a bit. Still '

Fifty yards further down the garden she
had got as far as :

I should miss talking to him awfully, if
T had to give it up. Still, I would rather
give it up than have him think me forward.'

Fifty yards further :

When the wall is finished, we shall
have to give up our little talks. And
that was what Maud said.'

And then she got to the edge of the
cliff, and, leaning over the railing, stood
watching the night falling over the sea.

*Why should I make a lot of words
about it?' she thinks, slowly ; ' I know the
truth — I am in love with him.' And,
though the words are unspoken, a hot
blush scalds her cheek. ' And I am not
ashamed to love him. He likes me, I am
sure. And I'll be a good girl to him, and
show him that girls can be honourable
and true, and I'll make up to him for the
way his cousin used him. I'll be good to
him even if he should behave badly tome.'


There was only one blood-red streak left
low down on the horizon, and she turned
and went slowly back to the house.

He has proposed to her,' said the widow
to herself, the evening of the next day,
when she reached her bed-room. And,
white as ashes, Maud threw herself down

into a chair, and-smith an agony in her
heart, drove her teeth into her lips. ' Oh,
my God !'

She put her handkerchief to her lips.
There was blood on it.

But Warrington had not proposed. Asa
matter of fact Lily had not that day seen
him. But there was a pride in her face, a
dignity in her walk, a firmness in her step,
that they had never had before. And her
young lips were riper, and the meaning
of her eyes deeper and fuller of the consciousness
of life. And Maud had seen
it.

I could take him from her if I chose
for all that,' said the widow to herself,
standing before her glass regarding herself
and reckoning how easy the young girl's
defeat would be.

And break her heart, poor little puss !

And she is happy! No, she shall have
him. It will be better for him.'

But she turned away from the glass with
a face full of bitter pain.

CHAPTER XV.

Two long, happy days Lily proudly kept
her secret of golden sunshine locked in
her breast; then, after thinking of the
matter for a quarter-of-an-hour, she came
to the opinion that the prettiest, frankest,
and right thing to do was at once to be
open with Maud, and to confide her love
to her.

Frankness, and that artlessness which
craves at once to communicate whatever
has overfilled the heart, were a much
larger part of her nature than reticence.

She had, besides, no wish to keep secrets
from her cousin. She and Maud were one
in heart and soul, one in tastes, in inclinations,
in feelings, in everything — both
of the same age within a few years ; both
mere girls, for Maud's stupid marriage had
hardly been a marriage at all ; and both,
in their hearts, ready enough to fall in
love with Prince Charming if he would
only come and fetch them away.

At least so Lily thought. Some people
would have told her that she was
a little goose, and that she and her
cousin were not alike at all. Only
Lily Hardwick would certainly not have
understood them.

Having resolved to take her cousin into
her confidence, Lily did not wait long to
put her purpose into execution. She made
her avowal the very same afternoon, in

the twilight after afternoon tea. Seated
on the sofa with her saucer and empty
cup on her knees, she had suddenly dropped
into a reverie so profound that she did not
hear Maud Gainsborough ask her whether
she would take another cup of tea. Maud,
who, at the moment she spoke, was inspecting
the contents of the teapot, receiving no
answer to her question, looked round.

How awfully pretty she is !' thought
the widow to herself. ' It would really bea
shame to disturb her. What a picture !
I am afraid she has caught it very badly,
though. Poor girl ! I wonder how long
she will remain in that exceedingly picturesque
attitude ?'

Lily appeared prepared to remain impassibly
immersed in her dream for any
period of time. So presently Maud Gainsborough
softly rose from her chair and

came to her, sitting down at her side, and
gently passing one arm round her, and
then drawing her to her.

Lily let her do as she pleased ; only
once she glanced guiltily into Maud's eyes,
and laughed a little nervous laugh.

Then, half-lying in her cousin's arms,
with her eyes turned away, she said,

I had something to tell you, Maud.'

Suppose I have guessed it ?'

Lily started, and disengaging herself
from her cousin, and sitting up, looked
her hard in the face. Then, bending
forward a little, she said, softly,

'Maud, I love him so awfully — so
awfully.'

An expression of acute pain shot across
the widow's face. But, mastering herself,
she took one of her cousin's hands, and
began caressing it.

I feel sometimes as if I should go quite
mad — I love him so awfully,' continued
Lily.

'And, Maud, isn't he handsome?' she
resumed, after another pause. * I do
admire him so. I expect every other girl
down here does too. But I don't care.
They don't love him as I do : they couldn't.
And, do you know, Maud,' — this in a
lower voice — ' I believe that he does not
dislike me.'

Maud Gainsborough started. Hope,
brilliant as summer noontide, had burst
in an instant upon the blackness of her
night. The man had not proposed. The
girl was only flattering her heart with her
own dreams.

But, darling,' she asked, gently, in her
soft, rich voice, ' he has proposed to
you?'

Oh ! no, Maud ! Only I love Mm so
that I don't know even whether I want
him to propose. To be engaged to him
would be such awful happiness that I
think I should feel half afraid of it. But
I believe that he does not dislike me.'

Yes,' thought Maud, ' I believe that,
too.' But what a weight was gone from
her heart ! Aloud she asked, rather
markedly, 'Already?'

Why do you say, " already," Maud ?'
asked Lily, not quite pleased.

You have not heard anything, then ?
There are people who say there was a
cousin of Mr. Warrington's *

Well ?' interrupted Lily. ' There was
a cousin of Mr. Warrington's. What of it,
if there was ?'

My dear, I was going to tell you, only
you interrupted me. Some people say

that, only a very short time ago, Mr. Warrington
was engaged to this cousin of his,
a great beauty, to whom he was very much
attached. And that it was only because
the match was broken ois that he came to
live down here.' She looked at Lily, but
Lily's face was inscrutable. ' If any of
that is true, it seems to me that Mr.
Warrington has not been very long in
chano:inoc his mind.'

Lily had risen.

'What was his cousin called ?' she asked,
shortly.

I don't know that anyone down here
knows.'

'Well, then, I know,' returned Lily,
quickly. 'Mr. Warrington's cousin to
whom he was engaged is a Miss Chesterfield
; and she is very pretty, and he was
very fond of her, and — I know all about it.'

Folding her arms, lie stood at a little
distance, with her head slightly turned,
looking down at Maud Gainsborough as if
she would say,

Now, then ! You did not expect that,
did you?'

Maud did not expect it. She said to
herself, ' So, he has been making a confidante
of her, has he?' That looked serious,
and the expression of the widow's face
changed.

The girl saw it at once, and followed up
her advantage without mercy.

I know all about it,' she said, flopping
herself down in a little chair by the low
tea-table. ' But that is no one's business
but mine. Mr. Warrington was shamefully,
shamefully used. And as to his
having changed his mind " already," as
you call it, I don't see that that has anything

to do with it. And, any how, I
don't care. I wished to be frank and nice
about it all to you, Maud. If you don't
wish it, I can perfectly well hold my
tongue. And so we will say no more
about the matter.'

And, with considerable sang-froid Miss
Hardwick proceeded to pour herself out
another cup of tea.

The widow knew how to manacle her,
and said nothing ; only took up her needlework.
Lily drank her tea in silence, and
then sat looking at the fire. So passed
half-an-hour, or more. Then Lily got up
and came across to her cousin.

*I beg your pardon, Maud,' she said,
kneeling on the floor by the widow. ' I
got into a temper just now. It was all
your fault, with that stupid "already,"
but I'm awfully sorry.'

VOL. I. S

Come then, darling said Maud Gainsborough,
good-temperedly, coaxing her
back to her side on the sofa. ' Now, let
me hear all about it.'

So, after all, the tender confession was
made. But nothing would Lily tell about
Miss Chesterfield. That was not her secret,
and she would not be persuaded to communicate
anything on the subject. It was
disappointing, for the young widow was
very anxious to be informed.

After all, though Mr. Warrington had
not proposed, it seemed to Maud Gainsborough
that things had gone pretty far,
particularly as she imagined that what
Lily knew about Miss Chesterfield she had
learned from her lover. But still it would
be an easy thing for Maud to do as she
pleased with the young girl's pliant, confiding
nature, and with her naive, childlike
love.

But Maud was still resolved to let things
take their course.

She mil make him a better wife than
I,' she said to herself. ' Or, at any rate,
she will bring him some money. I will
not come between them.'

s2

CHAPTER XVI.

"Warrington and his brother went to a
dinner-party at the rectory. The dinner
was dull, but the brothers met Maud
Gainsborough, who, to do her justice,
would have refused the invitation, if she
had suspected whom she was to meet.

Warrington — now he had discovered how
agreeable feminine society can be when a
man has once made up his mind not to be
in any danger from its fascinating wiles —
would much rather have met Miss Hard-wick.
But she was not of the party.

Failing her, he made himself agreeable to
her cousin, and with the assistance of
Maud's conversation, which was bright
and witty enough, got through the dull
evening rather more successfully than the
majority of the party.

Maud, too, had by this time invented
herself a myth. So that now the only one
of the three who was not acting a part
was Lily Hardwick. Maud Gainsborough's
myth was this : that she freely surrendered
the man she loved to her cousin, out of
regard for the young girl's feelings, and
for the man's good. For the rest of her
life she would herself be made happy by
the reflection of their happiness, and by
the consciousness of having, at the supreme
moment of her existence, had
enough nobility of character to sacrifice
the great passion of her life to the welfare

of the man she loved. That was, however
no reason why she should not show herself
to Warrington in her fairest colours.
Rather the contrary. Some day he would
hear the truth. These things always come
out some day. And the more he admired
her the greater the price he would set
upon the sacrifice she had made him, and
the higher the opinion of her which he
would always entertain. Poor Maud I
She enjoyed the dull dinner-party at the
rectory that evening as she had enjoyed
few things in the whole of her life.

A day or two afterwards came a letter
to Lynhurst from General Chesterfield.
It was an unlucky letter, and it came
on an unlucky day, when Warrington
was bothered about finding some ready
money.

The general was not at all well. And

his medical adviser was entirely deceived
about the nature of his complaint. With
the general's medical adviser this was
commonly the case, at least in the general's
opinion.

At present the old gentleman had a
bad touch of rheumatism, and the doctor
did not choose to treat him for it. So
the general was going to pay no more
attention to anything that the doctor said.
And, contrary to the doctor's orders, he
had had some friends to a big dinner, and
these had amused him very much by wanting
to know whether the story of his
granddaughter's escape from her betrothed
was true. They had all laughed over the
story until they had nearly fallen under
the table in fits. Also, it was said at the
club that Warrington had gone to hide
himself in some hole in the country because

he was ashamed to be seen after the
Miss Chesterfield adventure. The general
thought Warrington had better come upto
town for a day or two and show himself.
Also some one had put a report about the
place that Warrington was so awfully cut
up about the loss of Miss Chesterfield that
he had become as lean as a lath : a report
the general was not able to contradict
because he did not know whether it was
true or not. Thus the general in his
letter.

Warrington lighted his pipe with the
document. If his acquaintances in town
thought he had hidden himself in some
hole in the country because he was ashamed
to be seen, they might think it. He did
not care what they thought. And if they
liked to believe that he had become as thin
as a lath with fretting for Violet Chesterfield,

they might believe it. He did not
care what they believed.

Nevertheless, the letter made him cross,
and when, to add to it, he failed in the
afternoon to obtain some ready money he
wanted, for which he had gone into Dorchester,
he returned in the evening to
dinner at Lynhurst irritable and in low
spirits. Eustace did his best to cheer him,
but with no success.

Frank, old man,' he said at last as they
sat smoking after dinner, ' there is nothing
that puts a man so much out of humour
with himself and with everything about
him as attempting impossibilities. And
the fact is we are attempting impossibilities
here. We cannot afford all that we are
doing. We must make up our minds to
one of two things ; either to do less for the
place, to go in for all these repairs more

gradually, or else to lisle a little less like
country gentlemen with plenty of money
to spend. The place is costing us a great
deal more than we meant it should. In
my opinion, we are trying to do too
much at once. And certainly we are trying
to do more than we can very well
afford;

Every month that things are left undone,
the dilapidation become more
serious,' returned Frank Warrington, rather
gloomily. ' If I could have got that money
this afternoon '

But you see you could not. You have
already got as much as is to be had
easily. Now, we must either be content
to go on as we are, or else to be bothered
out of our lives with loans. There is no
third course, my dear fellow, you can see

it;

Of course Warrington could see it.
But he was cross ; and loth to admit anything
in a reasonable fashion.

So, instead of answering, he only smoked
in silence.

Presently taking a pipe, and filling it,
he remarked,

I think I shall look about for a woman
with a lot of money, and marry her.
There are women enough, no doubt, perhaps
not quite of our own caste with whom
it might be possible to live tolerably peacefully,
who would not mind the match
costing them a little money. Men marry
mostly, sooner or later, some woman or
another. And, as I am not likely to be
troubled with any more sentimentalities
on the subject, I might very reasonably
look out for some advantage to result from
the contract.'

I think the first question is, whether
sou mean what you are saying.'

'Well, yes,' replied Warrington, leaning
back in his chair, and crossing his legs.
Say, some woman rather older than myself:
a middle-aged woman : a widow. I
feel distinctly in favour of a widow, she
would have got over all the romance and
the nonsense. A woman with some sense,
of course. I have wondered in my time,
like other young donkeys, at men making
marriages with women of this kind, but I
can see the sense of it now. I really
believe that it would be a prudent thing
to do.'

'And the lady is to agree to leave
the tender passion entirely out of the
question ?'

That is very simple.'

I am not sure that you would find

it so in practice,' commented Eustace,
thoughtfully. ' However,' he continued,
Hie lady is not discovered yet.'

Now,' resumed Warrington, ' there is
Mrs. Gainsborough. Certainly she is nota
middle-aged woman : and she has no
money, so she would not do. But, if she
had money, she is a sensible woman. And,
at any rate, she is a widow. I was distinctly
interested by her conversation the
other evening at the rectory : and I should
say that it would not be difficult to get on
with her.'

H'm,' said Eustace.

You don't agree with me?'

I agree with you that she is a widow:
and that she is poor. That she has sense
yes. That you will persuade her to
waive the tender passion — most certainly
not. That she would not be difficult to

set on with. Well — I distrust Mrs. Gainsborough.'


indeed. Why?'

Difficult to say, my dear Frank. Mrs.
Gainsborough puzzles me. I am sure that
I do not understand her ; and yet I cannot
satisfy myself that the prejudice against
her, which I know I am contracting, springs
merely from my inability to read her character.
I won't say that she is insincere.
No, I don't think that she is insincere.

And yet ' he broke off, and concluded,

^I can't understand Mrs. Gainsborough:
and that is a fact.'

You don't think she would make a mana
good wife ?'

^ Not one that he could trust.'

Well, if a man wanted a wife whom he
could trust — he would want what he would
simply never find, I suppose.'

There you are wrong. If a man wanted
a wife who would prove an invaluable accomplice
in something not quite straightforward,
then I should say Mrs. Gainsborough
was the very woman for him. If
he could make her first of all passionately
in love with him.'

What has love to do with it ?' demanded
Frank, sceptically. 'Women don't love as
we do, Eustace. They love themselves
and their pleasures, nothing beyond. We
regard them as animals not so very unlike
ourselves, a little bit better in some respects,
and a little bit weaker in others.
But that, I assure you, is altogether a
mistake.'

To which Eustace answered, very philosophically,


The sense of mankind is against you,
my dear fellow. Still, respecting Mrs.

Gainsborough, I may be altogether mistaken,
for, as I have confessed to you, I
don't understand her. However, she has
no money, and so we need not trouble
ourselves about her.'

That is true,' admitted Warrington ;
and he puffed his pipe in silence.

Eustace resumed, after a few minutes'
silence,

Now, if you could do without a widow
it might be easier to find what you want.
If a tolerable sort of girl, with a pretty
little fortune, who would not mind putting
her hand to the work of rescuing Lynhurst
from destruction, would do for you ?'

Thanks. I have had enough of osiris.
Only pray who may this very easily discoverable
lady be ?'

^ You don't know?' asked Eustace, significantly.


No. I certainly don't,' answered Warrington,
quite honestly. -^

A young lady : a very decent sort of
girl : an heiress : with a nice little fortune :
distinctly pretty : and, I assure you, quite
ready to be asked to be mistress of Lynn
as soon as you like.'

You speak in enigmas, my dear Eustace.
You mean one of Sir Robert's girls ?
They are not heiresses. Miss Wesley?
she is not pretty. I give it up.'

Guess again. I am talking of some one
of whom you have seen more than of any
of those ; a neighbour of ours ; tall ; recently
much interested in the building of your
wall.'

Miss Hard wick ? My dear Eustace,
you are talking nonsense.'

Not at all. The girl is in love with
you.'

VOL. I. T

Then I am sorry for her,' remarked
Warrington, shortly.

'Why?'

'And besides, I have told you that
women do not fall in love.'

In that case, then, there seems to be
no reason for being sorry for Miss Hardwick.
Nevertheless, I should say that
she was distinctly smitten. If you don't
believe me, take some opportunity of
judging for yourself If you find that I
am right. Miss Hardwick is, by your own
admission, a sensible, straight-forward sort
of girl. She certainly has a pretty little
fortune as soon as she is one-and-twenty.
You are not going to be troubled with any
sentimentalities ; so she will do for you as
well as anyone else. And you can't do
better than marry her.'

And pray what on earth should she

marry me for ? For the pleasure of sink '^'
ing her fortune in Lynhurst?'

Not at all. For the sake of providing
herself with an agreeable husband.'

Warrington laughed, and Eustace joined
him, but went on in another tone.

You don't know it, of course, my dear
Frank, but you have recently developed
an exceedingly ugly trait.'

Very likely. Let us hear what it is.'

You are turned into a mysogynist.
But it is still a fact that, when you are
with women, no man could be more
studiously or successfully agreeable to them
than you give yourself the pains to be.
As soon as you leave them, you abuse
them without mercy ; and I partly believe
that you think what you say. But permit
me to observe, that your conduct is
rough on the ladies, who are irresistibly

T 2

attracted towards you as one of the nicest
of men, without the faintest suspicion of
the other side of your character. Into
this trap Miss Hardwick has walked.'

Then she should have known better.'

Still, it is open to you, who are not
troubled with sentimentalities, to take
advantage of her mistake if you choose.'

Only, my dear fellow, I don't choose.
I certainly am not going to propose to
Miss Hardwick — about whom, besides, you
are, I believe, mistaken.'

There was a little pause, and then
Eustace asked,

Only, seriously, Frank, I am desirous
to know one thing. If I am not mistaken,
if Miss Hardwick would have you, why
would you not have her ? There is no
sentimental motive at the bottom of all
this.'

Certainly not.'

^ Well then?'

But Frank Warrington made no reply.

Gradually a little smile began to play
around Eustace Warrington's fine lips, and
he continued, rather banteringly,

I suppose it is not necessary to imagine
that you have had a smite as well as Miss
Hardwick, and are, in consequence, tender
about her feelings. Falling in love is a
habit like anything else, and when a man
once gets into the way of it, he goes on,
€h ? Qui a hu hora. Now, I remember
that your weakness for Violet began very
much in the same fashion, a quiet and
rather platonic liking, just as you and
Miss Hardwick made friends over that
wall ; and '

Eustace, shut up, and don't be a fool,'
interrupted Warrington, abruptly, but

with perfect good-humour. ^ We have
had too much of this nonsense. Let us
take out the chess-men.'

By all means,' assented Eustace.

He crossed the room to where the chess-table
stood, and, bringing it, began putting
the men on the board, thinking, meanwhile,
in himself:

Frank is honestly convinced that I have
been talking nonsense ; he doubts that the
girl can care at all for him, and is entirely
unsuspecting that he is smitten himself.
All in the dark, just as he was the last
time. Strange. How blind these people
are who see I'

Warrington was in the dark entirely,
and honestly convinced that his brother
had been talking nonsense. And yet the
next morning, strolling out after breakfast,
he did think of some of the things

Eustace had said. He reflected in himself
thus :

'A man does not pass straight from
being jilted by one girl to making a fool
of himself over the next one he meets.
And I think I am honestly cured of the
weakness of falling in love. For which
reason, I don't mind admitting without
hesitation that Miss Hardwick has her
good points.'

It is possible that she may have taken
a small fancy to me. Probably she does
not see too many men. I have the reputation
of being a bit of a woman-hater. And
to captivate a woman-hater flatters the
vanity of a girl. I helped her in a
scrape, too, and she is, very likely, a bit
romantic'

A matter of entire indifference to him,
all of it. Still, he was a trifle curious on

the subject. If he wished to know, he
had only to take Eustace's advice, to
observe the young lady, and to judge for
himself.

CHAPTER Evil

A FEW days later, wending his way homewards
from a long solitary walk, he was overtaken
— it was in one of the most romantically
muddy of lanes— by Mrs. Gainsborough
and Lily Hardwick returning
home from an unsuccessful outing with
the hounds. They had drawn blanks at
all the covers. The lane led up a sheepish
hill, and Warrington walked some little
way by the side of their horses. The
widow, gradually passing in front, left him
and Lily to talk together.

Lily, with a little laugh, made some allusion
to their being apparently destined to
meet always under difficult circumstances.

'The first time it was the tide, Mr.
Warrington. To-day it is hopeless mud.
Did you ever see such a slough T

I suppose I ought to tell you,' replied
Warrington, ' that the pleasure of meeting
Miss Hardwick '

'Has made you imagine the lane was
quite dry,' laughed Lily. ' That would
have all the essential qualities of a real
compliment, would it not ? falsehood, fulsomeness,
and utter incredibility. You
have been for one of your long walks ?'

'Yes.'

'All alone?'

'Yes.'

What a shame it is, Mr. Warrington,
that you are so unsociable. Why do you

not hunt oftener ? and why don't you try
to help us all to get up some fun in this
dull place ? Why cannot you even bring
your brother to see my cousin and me ?
We have expected you every Wednesday.'

You are very kind

I think we are. to wish to see anyone
so very unsociable,' said the girl, archly.
Do you know, I shall soon feel tempted
to believe what I hear said of you, that
you are a regular morose, crabbed
misanthrope.'

Dear me : is that what they say of me ?'
asked Warrington.

'It is : and you look as if you rather
liked it. Only, now that I come to think
of it,' she continued, ' I am not sure that
it was not that other long word which was
used.'

'Which?'

^ Oh, I am not going to say it, for you
to laugh at me : the word that means that
you don't like ladies.'

Mysogynist ?'

Lily nodded mischievously.

'Well, perhaps it is true, you see,'
remarked Warrington, in a rather quiet
way.

He would give her to understand that
he did not much care for ladies, and see
how she would like it.

What ? That you are a woman-hater,
Mr. Warrington? I can hardly
believe that,' answered Lily, on the
spot.

'Why?'

It is so mean. You don't think so ?
But I do. When I hear girls speaking
against men, saying they don't care for
them, dislike them, hate them, prefer their

own sex, and all that, I always think it
sounds so cowardly, so poor-spirited, just
as if they did not know how to hold their
own with men. And if that sort of thing
is contemptible in a girl — what must it be
in a man ?'

Well, I have no wish to contradict a
lady,' answered Warrington, surrendering
with ready grace.

No, no,' put in the girl, quickly, ' you
shall not get out of it in that way. That
is just a trick you men have. I would
much rather hear you say anything than
that you should pretend to give in to meat
once, and still all the time think the
same as before.'

You wish for the pleasure of defending
your sex, Miss Hard wick ?'

Add at once, " and of having the last
word of the argument like a woman," ' returned

the girl. ' But I assure you you
wrong me. Come now, let us be honest.
I promise you, solemnly, that I will not
defend my sex. I will hear whatever you
may choose to say, and answer nothing.
But you, in return, shall tell me what it is
that you really think.'

I am afraid it will be too bad.'

"Well, say it all the same.'

Warrington was fain to comply. Here
was an opportunity to see whether she
would care what he might think of
women, including herself But to frame
the exact things he should say was difficult.


I am waiting, Mr. Warrington.'

'Then, if you must have it, I am afraid.
Miss Hard wick, that women, at any rate
young women, are not good for much —
rather selfish, untrustworthy, cold-hearted

creatures, specious enough very often, I
will grant you, but very treacherous.'

Well, I don't think you need say anymore.
You could not make us out much
worse than that,' said the girl, rather
discomposed.

His words had grated on her feelings,
and he could see it.

Those are really your opinions ?' she
asked, after a moment.

Well— yes.'

It was plain that she would have liked
to dispute what he said ; but she had given
him a promise not to argue with him, and
she meant to keep it. She only turned
her face away, certainly-with an expression
of pain, and presently asked,

You make some exceptions, I trust ?'

Oh, the present company, you know,'
answered Warrington, lightly.

• Ob, of course,' returned Lily, with
some acidity. ^ We know that that means
nothing. I am sure that I don't wish you
at all to except me.' Then, quickly resolving
not to be guilty of an exhibition of
temper, she went on, good-humouredly :
However, I made you tell me, didn't I ?
So you will justly think me very silly
if I am cross about what you have
said.'

'And, after all, what people say matters
very little, does it not, Miss Hardwick
?'

It matters sometimes.'

You mind what people say of you ?'

I mind what people I like say of me
very much indeed,' answered the girl,
simply and unaffectedly. *And, Mr. Warrington,
I gave you my word that I would
not dispute with you; but. I am very

sorry that you think of us all like that ;
I am indeed. I may say that without
breaking my word, may I not ? I think
such opinions are unworthy of you. And,
if I had the right to ask a favour of you,
I would ask you as a great favour to try
to think differently.'

Impossible, I am afraid.'

Quite impossible ?' — she spoke very
prettily, softly, in a tone of the gentlest
persuasion.

They had reached the level, and Maud
Gainsborough, a little in front, waited for
them to come up. As Warrington made
no answer to her last question, Lily went
on, good-temperedly,

Still I hope, Mr. Warrington, that you
and I are none the less good friends ; and
I must try to turn out not so bad as you
think me.'

VOL. I. u

They came up with Mrs. Gainsborough,
and Warrington wished the ladies ^ goodbye,'
and they trotted on.

But Warrington caught, as Lily bowed
to him, a shadow of pain in her blue eyes.

Turning out of the lane, he strolled
slowly homewards across some fields.
There was perhaps something in what his
brother had said. The girl did evidently
care what he thought of womankind, and
so of herself. But, after all, he did not see
that much could be inferred from that.
Perhaps she had taken a little ordinary
liking to him, as to a man who had made
himself agreeable to her, and perhaps she
was a little vexed to see there was not
much prospect of her liking being reciprocated
; though, for the matter of that, he
was quite prepared to admit that, as girls
go, she was a good enough sort.

And after all,' he concluded to himself,
women do not fall in love. Possibly the
better sort don't pretend that they do.
And, if Eustace knew as much about it allas
I do, he would know that.'

And Lily meanwhile reached home, and,
whilst Warrington was still crossing the
meadows, drank a cup of tea, standing in
her riding-habit before the drawing-room
fire, and answering, rather at random, such
remarks as her cousin made to her, so that
Maud said to herself,

Have they had a little tiff, then ?'

Once in her own room, Lily was able to
sit down by the fire, and to give herself up
entirely to her reveries.

I did not think he had got so far as that,'
she said to herself a little sadly.

But if her love could win him to think
better thoughts?

Was it strong enough, that love ; strong
enough for a battle with his disbelief in
all love?

At last she gave it up, saying to herself:
I love him, and I know no more. If I
love him enough, I shall succeed. If I
fail, it will be because I have not loved
him enough ; and then it will be better for
both of us that I should fail.'

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BT DUNCAN Macdonald, BLENHEIM HODSK.

Vipiiliifi

^iiiiiii

Jv{

w

#l"-ir'

« .v

f(^' k^^

iJ?^^?

f

^'(1^

r>.i

f I ^

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

VOL. II.

BY

HENRY CRESSWELL

Author OF
A MODERN GREEK HEROINE," "THE SINS OF THE FATHERS,'
INCOGNITA," " THE SURVIVORS," ETC.

Beware of the wrath of the dove.
IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. n.

LONDON :

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED.

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1888.

All Rights Resa-jcd.

A WILY WIDOW.

CHAPTER I.

Of course that AVarrington had wanted
some money and had been unable to get it
became known. Such things always do
become known, especially in places like
Lynham, though by what agency it is so
impossible to say that the ancient myth,
A bird of the air shall carry the voice,
and that which hath wings shall tell the
matter,' appears almost credible, for sheer
lack of any possible explanation of the
phenomenon.

VOL. II. B

Amongst other people, Maud Gainsborough
heard about that money, and
was sorry for Warrington ; sorry that
he should be in want of money ; and
sorry to hear the gossips making ill-natured
tattle for themselves out of his
embarrassments.

Warrington's want of cash touched the
widow, as the contemptibleness of his
opinions of women touched Lily Hardwick.
Lily would have given years out of her life,
or blood from her veins, not to have her
hero mean in his thoughts. The widow
recked nothing at all of his thoughts.
According to Maud's lights, opinions were
just opinions, that is intangible nothings.
But the want of ready-money that was
real. And so while the young girl questioned
her heart, what self-sacrifice on her
part could make the man she loved more

noble of disposition, the widow wished that
it had been in her power to put into
his hands the ready-money he wanted.
With what pride she would have given it
him !

It made her think of that fifteen
thousand a-year, which should be hers
and was not. If she had had that in her
hands !

She was still pursuing the same policy
with Warrington : scrupulously, conscientiously
avoiding him in every way she
could, and letting things between him and
her cousin take their course — a very slow
course it seemed. In small ways she even
abetted their meeting, and left them little
tete-arteries when they met. But one afternoon
at this date, being at home alone, she
indulged herself in building; a bis: castle in
the air, founded upon the imagination of

b2

what she would do if she had that magical
fifteen thousand.

Lily should not have Mr. Warrington
then. Why should she ? Maud would
then be a better match for him than she.
And Maud loved him as this child never
would. Given the fifteen thousand, Maud
would step in between their halting, hesitating
loves with her great, burning
passion. In a month the man should love
her ; in less than another month Lily
should be forgotten ; and the golden
future

What was the use of dreaming of it ?
She had not the money. Yet she went on
with her dreams.

And meanwhile, perhaps, this will be a
convenient place to offer some explanation
of this phantom fortune ever floating
before the imagination of the widow,

and of how she became aware of its
existence.

It is necessary to go back between two
and three years, to Maud Gainsborough's
gambling days, and to a date when she
was hideously in want of money. Mr.
Gainsborough had paid off her debts about
three months before, and she had then
made several solemn promises to keep
from temptation in the future. The promises
had gone the way of the proverbial
pie-crust ; and now, so far as she could see,
there was nothing for it but to confess the
fact and again to ask her husband for
money. Only, when it came to confessing,
Maud's courage failed her.

It was under these circumstances that,
one day, her eyes fell upon an advertisement
of a certain publication. Somehow,
it is always women's eyes that do fall upon

advertisements of this kind. The publication
was ' The ABC guide to hundreds
of thousands of pounds, or a complete
alphabetical register of all persons, in all
parts of the world, at present entitled to
inherit unclaimed fortunes, with complete
instructions how to establish successful
claims to inheritances, in many cases, of
hundreds of thousands of pounds. Price
one shilling.'

Mrs. Gainsborough was in the humour
to catch at straws, and she caught at this
one. Who could tell that there was not
an unclaimed fortune awaiting her. Heaven
only grant there might be one ! So she
wrote for the 'ABC guide.'

The post soon brought her the great
work. It was a volume in appearance
something between a tradesman's catalogue
and a cheap watering-place guide-book.

With trembling fingers Mrs. Gainsborough
turned hurriedly to seek her own name,
which she had at first been simple enough
to suppose might appear in the bock with
the sum awaiting her set against it. But
she found no Maud Gainsborough. Nor
did she find Maud Spencer, her maiden
name. Nor were the fortunes which were
to be obtained in any case indicated in
connection with the names to which they
belonged. In fact, the promises of the
A. B. C. Guide to hundreds of thousands
of pounds ' turned out to be somewhat
illusory. Certainly the arrangement was
alphabetical. But the fortunate heirs-atlas
appeared only as ' The heirs-at-law of
A. Jones '—' of B. Brown '— ' of C. Robinson
' — and so forth. The whole question,
which no one had as yet been able to solve,
being, who were the heirs-at-law of A.

Brown, B. Jones, and C. Robinson. Still
it was interesting to know that A. Brown,
B. Jones, C. Robinson, and the rest of
them, very much wanted heirs. But it
appeared that the fortunes in very few
cases amounted to the ' hundreds of thousands
of pounds.' Also, the prodigious
number of Browns, Joneses, and Robinsons
who wanted heirs was really bewildering
to anyone who wished to choose
from which of them he would like to
inherit. Further information, however,
respecting any name was to be had from
the enterprising publisher of this great
work upon the payment of a guinea. To
put the matter plainly : human ingenuity
could hardly have devised a publication
of which the real object (to obtain guineas
from the unwary) was more plainly evident;
or the ostensible object (to inform

people whether they were heirs to unclaimed
fortunes) more ingeniously traversed.
After which no more need be
said about the * A B C guide to,' etc.^ etc.

But Maud Gainsborough was desperate.
And, clinging with the resolution of despair
to her idea of the unclaimed fortune,
she was not soon to be baffled. She looked
up the names of all her uncles, and aunts,
and cousins, and of her great-uncles and
aunts so far as she knew them, and then
of her grandparents, and of her great-transparent,
and still, meeting with no
success, she set resolutely to work to
read the whole formidable index of names
throughout from A to Z, if haply she
might have the good fortune to discover
herself heir-at-law to some one.

And thus reading name after name, with
a patience and attention that certainly

showed character, Mrs. Gainsborough presently
came upon one that arrested her
attention — Josiah Slop.

That was an uncommon name. It was
not probable that there were two Josiah
Slops. And about one Maud Gainsborough
knew a long story.

Again it is necessary to go back — back
to Maud Gainsborough's school-days ; to
a date when both Lily's parents were
living, and also a great-uncle of hers, who
one evening invited the school-girls to his
house.

The old man was an antiquary, a genealogist,
and a student of everything dry
as dust, bygone, and generally uninteresting.


He was very kind, however, to the two
girls, and showed them a number of curious
things, and finally in the evening, byway

of amusing them, undertook to show
them that they were as well as first cousins
on their mothers' side, distant cousins also
on their fathers' side — fifth, or fifteenth, or
fiftieth cousins — the girls did not trouble
their heads which.

To prove that, he brought them out an
ancient family Bible, and a large, neatly-written
manuscript volume compiled by
himself, and lettered * Monument a 
' : also some very ancient faded
letters.

And first he called their attention to
one of the earliest entries in the family
Bible, and made them read under the name
of John Hardwick : ' He went away from
home June 3, 1696, and was never heard
of afterwards.' And then, having shown
them how they were both descended from
this John Hardwick, he told the girls with

great pride how he had discovered what had
become of this lost John Hard wick.

John Hardwick was a sad scapegrace,
and when he left home he left a wife
behind him, and a little son James,
from whom all the Hardwicks were descended.
Nobody ever knew what became
of him, until about 1850, when the old
antiquary himself purchased in Brussels a
bundle of old English letters that turned
out to have been written by this very John
Hardwick. From these letters it was
evident that John Hardwick lived for
many years in Ghent, and followed the
calling of an usurer; and the name he
gave himself in Ghent was Josiah Slop.
His letters, addressed to some familiar
acquaintance, were very unreserved, and
in one of the earlier ones he referred to the

fact of his having changed his name from
that of John Hardwick to Josiah Slop.
In the last letter of the collection he spoke
of his approaching return to England.
But whether he ever did return was unknown.
None of his family ever saw him.
The attention that Miss Maud Spencer
paid to this history was very slight indeed ;
and all that she remembered of it barely
amounted to the leading facts above recorded.
Five years afterwards, with the
name of Josiah Klop staring at her from
the ^ A B C guide to fortune,' she regretted
sincerely that she had not paid closer
attention to the relationships of the
Haddocks and the Spencers and to all the
details of the story of John Hardwick,
which had been related to her with sa
much care.

But, anyhow, she resolved to invest a
guinea in further information. The
information she got for the guinea was
this.

In the year 1736 there lived in Bristol
an old man named Josiah Klop. He
occupied a dilapidated house, and led a
parsimonious and secluded life, with an
ill-looking coloured servant who cooked for
him and waited on him. He was a reticent
old man, and unsociable ; little was known
about him, but it was said that he came
from the Low Countries, and that he was
wealthy; and he passed for a miser. Suddenly
both the old man and his servant
disappeared. The suspicions of the neighbours
were aroused, and after a few days
the house was broken open. The old man
was found murdered in his bed, and the
house ransacked. Whether there had been

anything in it to steal or not was never
known, but the coloured servant had vanished,
and it was generally believed that he had
murdered his master, and made ois with
what money there was in the house, and
perhaps with some valuables. However,
the old man's securities, and other properties
of his which were in the hands of his
bankers, remained, of course, intact. He
left his property to a son, but no heir
appeared, and the whole passed into the custody
of the Court of Chancery. The present
worth of his property, at the end of a
hundred and fifty years, was believed to
exceed half-million.

The paper trembled in Maud Gainsborough's
hands, and the room reeled
round her. Half-million !

Compelling herself to be calm, she read
the whole again carefully and then set

herself to consider what should be her
next step.

She wrote to the old antiquary, saying
in her letter that some one had asked her
about the family, and that she had been
able to tell only a very little. But she remembered
how kindly he had once told her
all about Josiah Klop, and the cousinship of
the Spencers and Hard wicks, and the fortune
the old man had made by money lending,
and what ought to have become of it.
And would he mind sending her the facts
in writing.

Mrs. Gainsborough was a 2:ood deal

O CD

pleased with her letter, and with the ingenious
manner which she had put out asa
feeler respecting Josiah Klop's fortune.

A reply came almost at once, in a letter
of five sheets. The old antiquary wrote
that he was very pleased to have received

Mrs. Gainsborough's letter. Everyone
ought to know their own family history.
And then followed the facts. First, all the
history of John Hardwick, alias Josiah
Klop ; and then that of his descendants,
the Hardwicks ; and then the history of
John Hard wick's sister's descendants, the
Spencers. All the other branches of the
Hardwicks were extinct, and William
Hardwick, and after him his daughter
Lily, were the sole representatives. Also,
all the other branches of the Spencers were
extinct, and Maud Gainsborough herself
was the last of her family. And the letter
ended thus, ' You make a mistake about
Josiah Klop's having made a fortune by
money-lending. There is no allusion in
his letters to his having amassed any
property. Had he left a fortune, his
present heir-at-law would be Mr. .

II. C

wick, failing him his daughter Lily your
cousin, then failing her, yourself.'

Mrs. Gainsborough, for one minute,
stared straight before her, a blank stare of
disillusion, and then she tore the letter into
twenty fragments.

She had discovered a fortune of half-million
— for her cousin.

Presently, however, she got the better of
her first phrenzy of disappointment, and
picked up the pieces of her letter — a valuable
one beyond a doubt — and carefully
patched them together, with paste and
some tracing paper.

Several courses were now evidently open
for her. She might inform Mr. Hard wick of
the discovery she had made. ' Make my
cousin a present of the fortune 1 have
discovered ?' quoth Maud Gainsborough to
herself * Never !'

And, being very bitter indeed about her
very bitter disappointment, Maud Gainsborough
then and there resolved, and
vowed that, if she could not have the money,
at any rate Lily should not.

Then there was a middle course : to
make terms, big terms for the disclosure of
the secret. The plan appeared to Maud
Gainsborough difficult to work, dangerous,
and uncertain to produce satisfactory
results, and she renounced it almost at
once. Probably in that she was wise.

Then there remained the third course —
to wait. ' Something might happen,' quoth
Maud Gainsborough. Of course she knew
that meant that Mr. Hardwick and his
daughter mio-ht die. She did not wish her
cousin to die, but, if she should die, half-million
was worth waiting for. Maud
resolved, after all, for the present to put

c2

away carefully. the letter she had at first
ferociously torn up, and the other documents
bearing on the subject, and to
wait.

That left her, of course, where she was
before with the gaming debts, and her incapacity
for paying them. She did indeed,
read through all the rest of the 'ABC
Guide,' but she came upon no more Josiah
Slops. And, in the end, she had to tell her
husband, and the collapse ensued which
ended in his ruin.

But there remained indelibly branded
on Maud Gainsborough's memory that
fortune of half-million ; which ought by
every right under heaven to be hers, for
she had found it ; and respecting which
she had vowed that, if it could not be hers,
it should not be anyone's else.

A year afterwards ' something ' did

happen. Mr. Hardwick and his wife lost
their lives on the Matterhorn ; and Lily
Hardwick became the last representative
of the Hardwicks.

Bat Maud Gainsborough remained still
of the same mind. Even when she met
the orphan girl, with her pretty eyes disfigured
with tears, and her 3^0 hung cheeks
pale with mourning, still she said to herself,
' I have vowed that the money shall
be mine or no one's. And I will not flinch
from it.'

She showed the girl every kindness, but
she held to her resolution. And when
Lily came to live with her — by that date
the old antiquary was dead too — still she
held to her resolution. And this afternoon
she held to it still.

I found the fortune, and it ought to be
mine. If anything were to happen to Lily,

it would be mine. If not, it shall be no one's.
I may die before Lily, and then the secret
shall die with me : but I will not surrender
what should be mine. I have vowed that
I will not, and I will not.'

And with that power of self-deception
which belongs to all strongly imaginative
natures, she was firmly convinced that in
holding to her resolution she was bent
upon nothing but doing justice to herself

But, if what was by right her own had
only been her own in reality, what a future
would have been before her — what a golden
future!

CHAPTER II.

Lily, meanwhile, was showing herself
about as perfect an epitome of all the
charming caprices of a pretty little witch of
twenty horribly in love, as anyone could
wish to see.

First and foremost, she was very much
in earnest, and liable, if teazed (and Maud
could not always refuse herself the pleasure
of teazing her) to become very cross and
shrewish, and sulky, for about a .
After that, her resentment
mostly vanished with a laugh, and a toss

of her pretty head, as abruptly as it
appeared.

Then next the little wretch was grown
as gentle as an angel, tenderer than tenderness
itself with every living thing that
crossed her passion-charmed path ; the
great, over-brimming love of her heart
flowing out, as it were, in a flood of gentleness
to all the world.

Then, of course, she had taken to losing
herself in long reveries, and was at times
as absent as the dead. And, by way of
being consistent, she was, for the remainder
of her waking hours, in one perpetual fever
of recollection of her last meeting with
Warrington, and of anticipation of the next.
Though, if accused of thinking of such
things, she became exceedingly indignant.
She had also grown a little shy, and nota
little reserved about talking; of Warrington,

and more coy about speaking of her
love than might have been anticipated, considering
the irresistible penchant she had
to open her heart on most topics. At the
same time, his name was on her lips, in
some trivial connection or another, twenty
times a day. And she had certainly
improved ; she had grown a distinct shade
prettier, and more dainty in her carriage,
and more graceful.

In conclusion, to pass over the rest, she
had evinced also, all of a sudden, a talent
for coquetry of the most astonishing kind.
So that Maud Gainsborough, who looked
on, might well say to herself, as she began
to, on the one hand, ' I am afraid that
she is most tremendously " gone on him," '
and on the other hand, ' She would be
more difficult to compete with than I at
first anticipated.*

In some humours, to watch her amused
Maud Gainsborough very much indeed.
In others, it made her jealous with a
terrible jealousy, a monstrous jealousy ; the
not unnatural consequence of the way in
which she was repressing and suffocating
her own passion.

But as February advanced, and with
the lengthening days came milder weather,
another change was apparent in Lily.
She was growing uneasy.

Her heart had begun to trouble her with
misf2fivin2;s. At the outset love is all sunshine,
and it seems impossible that it
should prove ill-starred. It is content,
too, with itself, satisfied to be love, and to
ask nothing. But love cannot rest there :
nothing can rest in this world. And Lily
began to be aware that merely to love Frank
Warrington was after all not quite enough.

As Maud had predicted, she very much
missed the restoration of the wall, which
had been finished long ago. It would
have been a blessed sight indeed, if she
could, some morning, have awakened to
lind another fifty yards of Mr. Warrington's
wall conveniently tumbled into the garden.

For she and Warrington now saw very
little of each other. Perhaps Warrington
had unconsciously taken a warning from
what his brother had said, and perhaps
Maud Gainsborough, also unconsciously,
afforded the lovers less assistance than she
had done. Certainly days passed, whole
weeks sometimes, and Lily saw nothing of
her hero.

She even began now and then to have a
horrible suspicion that she was playing the
miserable role of a girl who has given her
heart to a man who could not care for

her. After what he had told her of his
option of her sex, it seemed more than
possible.

When they did meet, occasionally Warrington
was cold. So cold, once, that the
girl went home and cried. Yet Warrington
had only been a little bit on his
guard that afternoon, because he could see
that one of the first scandal-mongers of
Lynham was watching them from inside
a shop.

But all their rencontres were not chilly.
There were "times when they met pleasantly
enough, when Warrington was agreeable
and even attentive, and Lily gratified and
responsive. And now and then they both
came uncommonly near downright flirtation.


One morning they met at the Lynham
Road railway station.

Ah, Miss Hardwick, how do you do ?'
said Warrington. ' You are sroino: somewhere?'


'No. I have only come to enquire
about a parcel for my cousin. I wish I
were going somewhere !' confessed Lily,
with a little sigh.

• Where would you like to go ? This is
February. A little trip to the South of
Europe. Shall we say Naples?'

Ah, should not I just like that,'
answered the girl, opening his eyes.

Suppose we go together ?' suggested
Warrington, playfully.

Ah, shall we ? That would be great
fun, wouldn't it?' replied Lily, coquettishly,
on the spot.

Well, let's start then,' said Warrington.
Let us see. There is a train to London
in ten minutes. Will you go and book?'

Oh, no, you must go and book, you
know,' laughed Lily.

I think,' said Warrington, pulling some
gold out of his pocket, and regarding it,
that the fare from London is something
like twelve pounds. You don't happen
to have twenty pounds about you?'

No. I don't,' said Lily.

I'm afraid we can't go this morning
then.'

'How unfortunate! And just when I
haven't any luggage. You'll never get
such a chance with a lady again, Mr. Warrington,'
laughed Lily.

He helped her to get her parcel and saw
her off in her pony carriage, she saying
playfully, as they parted,

And, next time you are going to offer a
lady a tour abroad, consult your exchequer
first. It looks very bad, I assure you, not

to be able to produce even the railway
fare.'

That morning she came back to luncheon
in ojreat spirits. But it was not very often
that Warrington and she managed such
merry little episodes as this.

Probably, however, the contretemps did
the little puss good : she learned from experience
something about what love really
is — and there is more to be learned in that
direction than is always supposed — and she
certainly became, as time passed on, a little
more mistress of her passion, more wary,
less easy to trifle with, less disposed to
wear her heart on her sleeve, and more
reticent and dignified. She became, also,
a trifle more difficult to approach, a fact
that Warrington observed and found rather
an incentive to cultivate her.

But an act of girlish good nature on her

part, about the same date, made an impression
upon him much more profound than
she suspected.

The hunting season was drawing to a
close when they one morning met at a meet
a little distance from Lynham. Lily was
in high spirits ; a Mr. Barlow, one of the
best riders in the hunt, had promised hera
lead, and she was looking forward, as she
told Warrington with glee, to the best run
with the hounds she had ever had.

A quarter-of-an-hour afterwards, whilst
Warrington was exchanging a few words
with Maud Gainsborough, she came up to
them on foot.

I am going home, Maud,' she said,
simply, ' Mrs. Forsythe will drive me back
with her.'

And then followed the explanation of
this sudden turn in affairs.

Mr. Forsythe had a niece staying with
him for a few days only, who was afterwards
going abroad. This niece had been
nursing a sick relation, and had not been
out with the hounds all the season. When
they got to the meet this morning they
found that Mr. Forsythe's groom had railed
over only one of the horses ; and it was
difficult to say who was more vexed, Mr.
Forsythe or his niece.

So, as I have had ever so many good
runs this season, Miss Forsythe is going to
take my horse,' concluded Lily, ' and Mr.
Barlow has been so kind as to promise to
look after her instead of me.'

Oh, but this is not at all fair upon you,
Miss Hard wick,' said Warrington, at once.
Do let me see if we cannot manage somehow.'


^ Mr. Forsythe has tried everything,' said

VOL. XL 3)

Lily, good-temperedly ; ' and, after all, I
have had ever so many jolly runs this
season already.'

And so, in the end, she drove home with
Mrs. Forsythe.

But Warrington, relating the incident in
the evening to his brother, said, ' That is
what I call real unselfishness. I feel a
respect for that girl.'

The impression the incident made on
Frank Warrington did not escape the keen
observation of Maud Gainsborough either
at the time or afterwards.

There was a public path through one
part of the Lynhurst woods, and at the end
of the same week, Maud and Lily returning
home that way came upon Warrington
giving some instructions to one of his
men.

Briefly concluding his orders, Warrington
turned to walk a little way with
them, and at once entered into a conversation
with Lily. In his tone Maud believed
she could plainly detect a note of deference
and admiration for something more
than the girl's pretty face and charming
figure. Warrington was talking to her
as to a girl whose conduct had won his
respect.

Maud left them to talk, dropping behind
under the pretence of picking some of the
wild periwinkles. Following a little distance
behind them, she could see them
walking close together, the man's face
often turned to the girl's, and hers
often to his, as they conversed rapidly,
earnestly, apparently engrossed in the subject
they were discussing. From time to

d2

time, Lily bent her head as she listened
and from time to time, as she spoke,
moved it with a charmingly coquettish
grace.

As Maud watched them, a horrible
jealousy of the young girl awoke in her,
and made itself master of every other
sentiment. This girl ! This baby ! Because
she had a little money, was she to
have everything?

Warrington and Lily, still talking in the
same animated way, had stopped to wait
for her. As Maud came up to them, she
made a resolution. This time, Warrington,
for once, should talk to her, and Lily should
walk behind.

She began from an ordinary question
about the men to whom they had found
him speaking, to ask about his labourers,
and then about the improvements on the

estate. In a very few minutes she and
"Warrington were talking of the wisdom
and practicability of different schemes
of capital, and labour, and interest, and
money sunk, and returns, and all sorts of
things that were Hebrew to Lily Hard wick,
but about which Maud seemed to know a
great deal, or, at any rate, could talk very
sensibly. And, indeed, anyone who had
listened first to Warrington's conversation
with the young girl, and afterwards to that
with the widow, would have said on the
spot that there was no doubt which of
these two young women was gifted with
the most sense. Warrington, himself, was
aware of the difference, and the tone of his
conversation with Maud was of a more real
kind than that with the girl, more like the
conversation of a man with a man. He
even thought of what he had said to his

brother, how unfortunate it was that Mrs.
Gainsborough had no money, for the woman
certainly possessed a head for business,
and might have given any man a deal of
help. But, in the middle of it all, he broke
off, quite naturally to speak again to Lily
Hardwick, simply as if he felt it was not
polite to leave her out of the conversation.


If he had looked, he might have seen
Maud biting her lips for vexation.

After Warrington had left them, the
ladies walked a good part of the way
home in silence. Maud was out of
humour.

At last she remarked, abruptly,

You don't seem to get on very fast with
Mr. Warrington, dear.'

What do you mean ?' asked Lily.

^ Nine men out of ten would have proposed

before now — if they were going todo
so at all.'

Do you think so?' asked Lily, a little
alarmed.

Certainly. You don't manage him a
bit, Lily

'Thank you. But I don't want to
manage him,' answered the girl-seth some
spirit.

As Maud said nothing, she continued,

I was so interested to hear all he had
to says about his estates. I wish I could
talk to him as you do, Maud. But I
am not half clever enough for that. I
felt so sorry, too, when he spoke of how
many things there are to be done that
would cost more than he could at once
afford. He seemed so vexed about it, poor
fellow.'

The widow was silent. Unwittingly,

Lily with her allusion to Warrington's want
of money had put the knife straight into
Maud Gainsborough's heart.

Presently a rumour began to circulate in
Lynham that Mr. Warrington's pecuniary
embarrassments, which had so recently been
affording the gossips something to talk
about, were likely to be only of a very
temporary nature.

Dr. Gregg first brought that news
down from town, whither he had been to
pay his annual visit to a brother of his.
And Lily Hardwick, taking luncheon nth
Dr. Gregg, was amongst the first to hear
the tidings.

What was said was this. That Mr. Warrington's
grandfather, General Chesterfield,
was so angry with his grand-daughters for
having run away from his house, that he
would disinherit them, and leave all his

money to Warrington. And the general
was reputed to be very ricci and also very
ill.

'Serve those girls right,' said Lily to
herself.

Of course, when she got home she told
Maud Gainsborough what she had heard.

Maud listened with eager attention.

Dr. Gregg told you that ? Did he seem
to think it true ?' she asked.

Quite true.'

And the general is rich ?'

'Very rich, they say. And Mr. Warrington
is his favourite grandson.'

Wrapped in a rose-coloured dressing-gown,
Maud Gainsborough sat up late that
night, thinking, thinking, thinking.

If what Lily had heard was true, that
altered everything. Mr. Warrington would
have no particular occasion to marry

money. He might marry anyone he chose.

His grandfather must surely be a very
old man.

So strongly was Maud Gainsborough
impressed with the change that had
appeared in the situation, that she said to
herself,

If I could do without Lily's money, I
would get rid of her. She should go and
live somewhere else. He would soon forget
her. But I cannot do without Lily.
I should cut a miserable figure on my
wretched three hundred and fifty.'

No. It was necessary to keep Lily, and
to risk the consequences.

CHAPTER III.

Maud Gainsborough had been in love
before this — more than once.

Falling in love, after a few times, becomes
a rather odd experience. The
third and fourth passion has none of the
freshness of the first, but it is also free
from some of its delusions. A great part
of the phrenzy of first love belongs to the
erroneous opinion of the enormous importance
of the adored object to the adorer,
and of the essential immutability of the
passion. That the beginner should feel

this is quite reasonable. As yet lie or
she has had no opportunity to see any
farther. But when once a person has
passed through all the phases, those at the
end as well as those at the beginning, when,
after the loss of one or two beloved objects
(supposed to be indispensable to existence,
to say nothing of happiness), the passionate
pilgrim of life himself, or herself, much the
same person as before, only a little wiser,
and capable still of being smitten with the
gentle passion, the delusions give place to
experience. After that, with recollection
to assist, there is something very queer in
gliding once more into an amour, in experiencing
over again the first smite, the
soft attraction, the little tenderness, the
anticipations, the unrest, the pleasures of
the unexpected rencontres, the disappointments,
the melting moments, and the final

exchange of existence by which lovers
come at last to live not in themselves, butin
each other. And not the least odd part
of all is being able to say, ' Next I shall
have such and such feelings ; and, if they
continue, afterwards such and such
others.'

Just at present Maud Gainsborough was
able to say to herself that she was beginning
to lose her head, and that very soon
it would be all up with her.

Whilst a human being can say this,
there is still hope for escape. So Maud
was not yet altogether lost.

But two months had elapsed since the
young widow had received that telegram
from Anthony Gainsborough, asking what
could be her motive for wishing to leave
Lynham, which had made her exclaim
Things must go their own way.'

And the widow at the end of those two
months was not feeling safer than at the
beginning of them : far from it.

The greater part of the time she had
fought hard with herself, and with some
success. But recently there had been a
whole afternoon devoted to thinking what
she would have done if she had had that
fifteen thousand a-year : and one, two,
three occasions when she made Warrington
talk to her instead of to her cousin. And
once she had been far more successful than
in the wood. Also three hours of the
quiet night given to thinking how the
death of General Chesterfield, and Warrington's
inheritance of a fortune, would
make it easy enough for him to marry
whom he chose.

And worst of all, for this had been
positive madness, she had gone for a

country walk, knowing that she would
meet Warrington, and had met him,
and walked three miles with him, and
heaven help her ! — how happy she had
b been !

And, since that, she had been thinking
of him, thinking of him, thinking of nothing
else.

At this rate, the date was not far off
when she would be deliberately making
the man love her. For she could do it.
She had no doubt about that.

And then he would marry her, and love
her, and worship her.

And she would have brought him nothing
: only a wife who was

No : never ! Bad as she was, she had
still grace enough to care a little for the
peace of the man she loved.

But the case was becoming desperate.

And desperate cases must have desperate
remedies.

Maud Gainsborough found one desperate
enough.

Mr. Warrington should know everything.
She would herself tell him the
truth.

After that, he would be out of danger
of|^falling in love with her : alas !

When once she had resolved on the expedient,
the idea became a fixed one with
her, and she began to strain every nerve
to carry her purpose into effect. That
absorption in one aim, when it had once
obtained possession of her fancy, was a
part of her nature ; and had more than
once carried her through with her projects
sometimes, indeed, to her own destruction
where other women would have failed.
It did so this time.

To find an opportunity of saying to the
man such things as she wished to say, to
be fairly sure of seizing the opportunity
when it presented itself, to manage that
the circumstance should be such as should
make a confession possible, and that the
occasion should leave her some way of
parting from Warrington not too humiliating,
after her avowal was made ; all that
was not easy. But her resolution and perseverance
managed it.

Once more she contrived to acquaint
herself with Warrington's movements, and
to meet him, this time late in the afternoon,
as he was returning home alone. The
place was a country road, very little frequented,
and their ways lay in the same
direction only for a short distance.

On the occasion of one of their last meetings,
Warrington had been talking about

VOL. u. E

the restoration of a ruined barn, and the
construction of a bridge where one was
very much needed to cross a wide stream,
and Maud had pointed out to him that
by building the bridge of the stone of the
ruined barn, and constructing a new barn
in another place, he would save time,
materials, and labour. He had since put
her plans into execution, and had found
them turn out as she had predicted : and
he now began by saying how much he was
obliged to her.

It was very pleasant to Maud to have
him speak to her in that strain, but it was
not to have her ears gratified that she had
met him. She said, modestly,

I am glad that my suggestions should
have been of any service to you.' And
she enquired after his brother.

Thus they reached the place where

their roads parted. Stopping there, she
said,

Do you know, Mr. Warrington, there is
something I want very much to say to
you. Would you mind walking round
this way with me T

He assented, and they proceeded on
together.

Maud was conscious of a great weight
settling down on her heart ; and her eyes
wandered restlessly around the scene
before her. The road at this point passed
through the corner of a wood, with only a
low, slight railing on either side, separating
it from the trees that rose, tall and leafless,
spreading their wide boughs over it, often
interlacing them in an arch. From the
west the low sun, setting in a cloudless sky,
poured into the tunnel the arching branches
made, its level glowing light. The light

E 2

pierced in amongst the boles of the trees,
and threw on the ground before Maud and
Warrington long, sharply-marked shadows.
Farther on the road dipped, and then took
a turn. It was shady and dusk there, and
nothing was visible but the trees. Half-unconsciously
the young widow took-in the
whole scene, the quiet deserted road that
had been scoured by recent rains, the
long shadows, and the dimness of the
wood.

This was to be the spot that she would
always remember as the scene in which
she confessed her crime, her secret that
she had supposed she would never surrender.
Already, as she approached telling
it, her courage began to fail her, and the
weight at her heart seemed intolerable.

How cruel to have to tell her guilt to
this man ! To this man whom she loved ;

into whose arms she was fain to throw herself
with a prayer to him to save her :
instead of which, she was going to make
him fling her from him. He would do
that at once when he had heard the truth.
Alas the fatality that had brought her to
this pass the first punishment of her crime ?
God wields arms so terrible. It is so easy
for Him to make the guilty do such
miserable penances for their sins ! And
yet, if she chose, she could be silent.
She could easily say some trivial thing,
and still go free. But if she once spoke
there would be no taking the words back.
One word, and she would have tossed
away all hope, all possibilities. But, if she
was silent, who could tell what might
happen ?

No. She was resolved to speak for AeV
sake.

Yet some minutes elapsed before she
found the courage necessary for beginning.
At last she said, with downcast eyelids,

'Mr. Warrington, I have something
difficult to say. Please do not interrupt
me. You will only confuse me. You
must not think me sentimental. I am a
woman of the world, and have seen more
of it, unhappily, than you would think,
but I am going to say things to you that
I certainly would not say to anyone whom
I did not implicitly trust. And I say them
to you, because I do not want you to take
me for a woman different from what I
really am.'

Warrington made no answer, and she
looked down the road before them. There
was a little descent here, down it the
long black shadows stretched out before
them so loner. But she had made a

commencement, and it was now more easy
to continue.

I wonder,' she asked, without raising
her eyes, ' whether it has ever occurred
to you to wonder why I live here at
Lynham ?'

I cannot say that it has. That is
rather your business than mine, Mrs.
Gainsborough.'

His tone was not very sympathetic.
Really, he was asking; himself, what on
earth the woman could be aiming at.

You see, your nature is unsuspicious,'
said Maud, with a smile. ' But there are
reasons ; I mean, serious reasons.'

Her voice had dropped, and she
stopped, and it was a minute before she
resumed.

I think when you hear what they
are you will see that you rather overrate

me. And I — 1 should not wish you to be
deceived.'

That was not how she intended to conclude
the sentence when she began it.
But her brain was becoming troubled. To
confess what no human being had suspected
was so difficult. And the man
listening with respect, with an evident
admixture of surprise at her apparently
uncalled-for frankness, was not assisting
her.

However, she struggled on.

In any case, Mr. Warrington, I am going
to tell you the truth. I am living
here, not of my own choice, but in accordance
with a promise which Mr. Anthony
Gainsborough exacted from me, after Mr.
Gainsborough's death : a promise that I
would live in any place he chose, quietly,
and '

She broke off, and in herself continued,
Oh, my God ! how am I ever going to tell
him?'

To tell him ! She was young, handsome,
strong, fond of her pleasure, full of healthy,
rosy life ; in lack of nothing but money ;
just because she had not that, to wilfully
Take the dead past out of its grave, and
to turn all her future with one word into
one long haunted misery ! Was it not
madness ?

But her better self prevailed, and she
came back to her story.

'That promise my brother-in-law exacted,'
she went on, dropping her eyes, ' as
the condition of — of '

1 cannot tell him. I cannot,' she
protested in herself. ' It is too horrible.
I must have been mad when I
began this.'

And then again, with a sudden determination,
she resolved, ' I will tell him !'
And she resumed.

'The fact was, I was guilty of a great
crime. I '

Her breast heaved heavily, and her lips
were quivering with agitation.

Mr. Gainsborough was not wealthy,'
she said, hurriedly, at last. ' And — 1 — I
gambled and ruined him ; and — ' (' 1 cannot
tell him,' she said in herself ' It is of
no use to try') ' and I am afraid his ruin
occasioned his death. In fact, I behaved
very badly to him. And I am here really
in disgrace, living upon an allowance made
me by my brother-in-law, on the condition
that I behave well, and that I keep
out of temptation.'

She finished quickly in a low voice, but
without embarrassment. When she had

done, she once more repeated to herself,
but now, in the form of an excuse, * I could
not have told hin. The thing was impossible.'
And aloud she added, by way of
conclusion,

And now, Mr. Warrington, you must
think what you please of me.'

It was not at once that Warrington
spoke. To himself he was thinking, ' What
the deuce should this woman have told me
all this for ?'

At last he observed,

I suppose you lived in town, Mrs.
Gainsborough. There are great temptations
in town. But I imagine that
these are questions rather for your own
conscience.'

And that he said only because he saw
that he must say something, and did not
know what to say.

Maud Gainsborough hardly heard him.
What did it matter to her what remark he
made? She had broken down, utterly.
She had far better have said nothing
at all, than what she had said. For
once in her life she had blundered idiotically.


Happily it was not far to Cliff Cottage.
A great part of the way they walked in
silence, each of them wondering which was
feeling the more embarrassed.

At the gate, Maud, saying good-evening,
added,

I shall be at home next Wednesday,
as usual, and very pleased to see you
and Mr. Eustace Warrington, if you like
to come.'

That, of course, was equivalent to, ^ If
after having heard of my conduct you
prefer to know a little less of me, don't

bring your brother on my next " at home "
day;

And so they parted.

Of course the woman has her faults
mused Warrington to himself, going on
his way. ' Gambles if she can get the
chance, does she? I daresay. But I don't
see what business it is of mine. And
what she can have told me for, I can't
imagine. There is no accounting for
women.'

In her own room Maud was crying,
with her head buried in the sofa
cushions.

I wish I were dead !' she sobbed, in a
passion of misery, 'I wish that I were
dead! I hate it ! I hate it, and I cannot
help myself The miserable coward
that I am, I might have told him, and
have saved him : and instead I have

made it impossible for myself to tell
him the truth ever. I wish that I were
dead !'

Would he call on the next Wednesday
?

CHAPTER IV.

That was the question which was perplexing
Warrington. He did not want to call

CD O

with his brother at Cliff Cottage on the
following Wednesday. But he could
see how his non-appearance must be
interpreted.

But, as it happened, before Wednesday
both Warrington and his brother were in
town.

General Chesterfield was seriously ill.

The old gentleman had made many jokes
with his friends about the trick his granddaughters

had played his grandson, but, for
allthatjhehad been incredibly put out about
the way in which the girls had run away
from his house, and, since, had gradually
subsided into a state of uninterrupted bad-temper.
Any reasonable being might have
supposed that, seeing the girls were gone,
the wisest course was to submit to the
irremediable, and to permit time quietly to
efface the remembrance of the momentary
extreme annoyance. But not so the
general. He preferred to make himself
ill ; and, by putting himself day and night
into passions about his granddaughters,
brought himself into a state of cerebral
irritation that ended by completely undermining
his constitution.

So serious did his condition become that
his valet ventured more than once to ask
whether he would not like to see his

grandsons. But the old man had, on
each occasion, answered in his passionate
way,

Confound you, sir ! can't you mind
your own business ? Don't I write every
week to my grandson myself, sir? And
can't I tell him when I want to s6e him?'

But for some weeks past his letters had
led Warrington to suspect that the old
man was not making the progress he wished
to represent, and a day or two after his
meeting with Maud a letter arrived from
the general, an almost incomprehensible
scrawl, that caused him the gravest misgivings.


I am afraid that grandfather is far
from getting on as he says, Eustace,' he
remarked, as they sat at breakfast, reading
the letter that had come by the morning
post.

VOL. ir. F

What does lie write?' asked Eustace.

The same old story, so far as it is
possible to make anything of it. Beauchamp
does not understand his complaint,
and won't let him have anything he likes
to eat. And he is evidently in a very bad
temper. But he is again confined to his
room, and apparently with very little
prospect of leaving it. I think I ought
to run up to town and see the old
man.'

'You'll not be able to do him any good.
You'll not make him listen to Beauchamp,'
observed Eustace, in his quiet, discouraging
tone.

That was true. Nevertheless, Warrington
telegraphed to the general's valet,
asking him to let him know at once how
the old man was.

The reply was exactly what he feared.

The general was in a very dangerous condition,
and entirely unmanageable.

The brothers held a short consultation,
and went up to town the same morning.

The news of their departure was not
long in reaching Cliff Cottage. Some
gossip brought the information to Mrs.
Gainsborough in the afternoon.

General Chesterfield must be ill,' said
the widow to Lily.

On reaching their hotel, Warrington and
his brother found the general's valet already
there, waiting for them.

The general was about as bad as he
could be with the jaundice ; in all probability
dying.

The jaundice, Saunders I' exclaimed
Warrington, with amazement.

Yes, the jaundice, sir,' replied the man.
The general would not admit that it was

f2

the jaundice. The merest hint of such a
thing put him at once into a furious
passion, which was very bad for him.
He insisted that it was nothing but a
little touch of rheumatism in his right
shoulder.'

Yes ; that is what he has been writing
to me all along,' interrupted Warrington.
'A touch of rheumatism in the right shoulder,
and his heart a little weak.'

That's it, sir. That's what he says to
everyone, sir. Colonel Xysson and some
of the others sided with him at first ; and
that made him the more obstinate. But
of course, afterwards, anyone could see
what it was. But it is no good to say
anything to him about it, sir ; he only
gets into one of his passions — you know,
sir — and makes himself ever so much
worse.'

"Warrington took a turn across the room
and back again.

Tell us all about it, Saunders,' he said ;
when and how this began, and — tell us
all you can.'

The valet commenced. The beginning
of it all was the young ladies going away.
After they had gone, the general seemed
not to be able to get over the way in
which they had left him. He kept on
talking about it, fretting, and grumbling,
and scolding, until he had fretted himself
ill. His temper became worse than ever,
and his appetite grew uncertain. He could
not enjoy his breakfast in the morning ;
and then sometimes he would be looking
forward to his dinner all day, and, when it
was on the table, could not touch it. And
he was always complaining about the rheumatism
in his redit shoulder. It was a

long time before lie would see the doctor ;
and then, when the doctor told him he had
the jaundice, he went into a great passion,
and swore that the doctor knew nothing
about what was the matter with him, and
that he would not see him again. Colonel
Nysson came in the same evening, and set
him still more against the doctor. And so,
the next time the doctor called, the general
would not have him come upstairs.

However, after some days, the pain
continuing, the general became frightened
about himself, and began to fancy that
his heart was out of order. Then he was
troubled with pain in his legs, and could
not sleep at night, and so he had the
doctor again, after all. But still he would
not give in about the jaundice. And
his temper was something awful. About
the end of January he seemed to pick up

a little, though he was still very cross,
and querulous about himself. He had
become, too, as yellow as a guinea. He
did not seem to be able to see that himself,
and, if anyone said anything about
the jaundice, it made him perfectly mad.
He had by that time taken to always
having his breakfast in bed ; and, when
he was up, he only got about a very
little, because his legs were swollen, and
pained him. At the end of February he
took altogether to his bed. He wanted
nothing but game and fancy dishes, and
all that the doctor would give him was
thin beef-tea, and rice-puddings, and
milk. So there were rows all day long
about his meals, and sometimes, when he
had an appetite, he would have what he
liked in spite of the doctor. If he could
not get it anyhow else, he would have it

sent in from an hotel, and then he would
eat enough for three, and after that he was
worse again. Sometimes he would take
a little more stimulant than usual, and,
as he had never been a heavy drinker,
that would pick him up for a time, and he
would believe that he was getting welland
would tell the doctor so. But, on the
whole, he grew slowly worse and worse.
The doctor made him have a nurse in
February, and she had been with him ever
since. The only wonder seemed to be how
he had held out so long. Now, in these
last few days, there had certainly been a
change. He slept more, and, though he
was still irritable and excitable, his
strength seemed to fail him, and his fits
of passion were neither so violent nor
lasted so long. In fact, the old man
appeared to be sinking.

And all this time, why has no one
written ?' demanded Warrington.

Because the general would not have it.
No proposition made him more angry.
He always asserted that he had himself
told his grandson all that the doctor said,
'lies and all.' And so everyone supposed
that Warrington knew.

The valet left.

And so we have come up to town,
Frank, just in time to see the end,'
observed Eustace.

It seemed so.

The next mornings Warrinsfton called
at Welmore Street. He was shocked at
the condition in which he found the
general. The old man did not indeed
present the canary colour he had anticipated;
he was rather of a greenish
pallor. But his cheeks were hollow, and

his appearance that of an utter wreck.

And pray, sir, what the devil have you
come for ?' he at once demanded, angrily.
Come to see whether Fve got the jaundice,
haven't you ? Don't believe what I
write in my letters? Eh? Or what the
devil does it all mean, sir?'

Warrington answered very quietly,

What it means, grandfather, is simply
that Eustace and I are in town for a few
days. But I am sorry to see you so far
from well.'

Yes, I'm out of sorts, my boy,' answered
the general, somewhat conciliated. ' My
heart is all wrong, and I'm queer all over.
But these confounded doctors don't seem
to know what is the matter. To cover his
own ignorance, Beauchamp wants to make
out that I've got the jaundice. The idiots
have brought me to death 's-door between

them. First they destroy my appetite with
their filthy drugs, and now they won't let
me have anything to eat. And I can't
get a wink of sleep either. If I only doze
oiF for ten minutes, this woman they have
put here to look after me wakes me up to
take some of their beastly medicine. And
they won't let me see anyone. Nysson came
last night, and she knew that I wanted to
see him, and still she sent him away. Laid
up like this, of course I can't make any of
them do what I wish. But I'd have been
up long ago, and quite well before now, if
it had not been for their blundering and
bad nursing.' The old man had been working
up his impatience during these last
few sentences to a very considerable pitch,
and here followed some very ugly words,
after which he concluded savagely : 'And
I don't want anyone coming here to look

after me ; to see how I am, and how I am
not. You understand me, don't you?
When I want you, I'll send for you.'

The nurse came in with some beef-tea on
a tray.

Now, what's that you've got there ?'
demanded the general.

It's what Dr. Beauchamp ordered,
sir.'

I didn't ask you what Beauchamp
ordered, I asked you what it was,' said the
general, savagely.

It's beef-tea, sir.'

Then I shan't take it,' said the old
man. stake it away. I shan't take it.
Take it away. Now. Will you do as I
tell you ?'

He had got up on his elbow, trembling
with anger.

'Take it away,' he repeated, passionately.

' I said I'd have a little game-pie.
Do you hear ? Game-pie. I'll not
have that.'

Bending forward, he made a grab at the
tray as if he would throw it on the floor,
and then, exhausted with the effort, fell
back on his pillow, mumbling, in a faltering
voice, something scarcely audible.

The nurse simply put the food down on
the table, and moved towards the fire.

Warrington leaned back in his chair by
the bedside, and silently bit his lips.

The poor old general ! How pitiful an
end to the brave old fellow's long, honourable
life and many years of distinguished
service. It all flashed through Warrington's
brain ; all the story that he knew so
well ; of which they were all so proud.
And he thought, too, of the poor old man's
sorrows ; of disappointments of long ago,

of which he had only heard ; of how he
himself a boy — too young to understand —
had looked with awe at the erect, military
figure standing by the grave of his mother,
the general's youngest daughter, and had
seen the tears well up in the old soldier's
eyes ; and of how the old man used to
feel the dropping off of all his old friends
one by one. For the general had a
great heart. His temper was really awful,
and had apparently always been the same ;
but that had nothing to do with his great,
warm heart. How kind he had been to
Warrington and to his brother ! How good
to them both when they were left orphans,
a second father, and a wiser one than their
own.

How kind he had meant to be to the
Chesterfield girls — the thankless hussies!
There was no end of tender-heartiness in

the rough old fellow; anyone who knew
him could witness to it, his fellow-officers,
his friends, the men Who had been under
him, his men-servants, his beasts, his enemies
: only no Avoient, not even his daughters.
Of all the animals upon the earth,
the one that the general had never been
able to understand, nor to make understand
him, was a woman. A phenomenon
in which Warrington, at any rate, saw
nolhinsf strange. And now this was the
end of the fine old officer, the tenderhearted,
rough old soldier, the brave old
man, who had fought his way through five
campaigns, and through life's long battle
of seven-and-seventy years — to die without
dignity, a peevish dotard, in the charge of
a woman.

The poor old general !

It was with reluctance that Warrington

left him, and went downstairs. He would
have liked, if it were possible, not to have
gone away at all, but himself to have
nursed the old man ; gently to have curtained
from vulgar eyes the old soldier's
last defeat, and to have felt that, doing
so, he was giving back a little of the love
the old man had lavished on his orphanhood.


In the library he sent for the nurse.

General Chesterfield passed a very bad
night?' he asked.

Oh, no, sir,' answered the nurse. ' He
slept from about nine o'clock till nearly
eight this morning. He does not know
when he has been sleeping, and when he
has not, sir, you know,' she added, in explanation,
with a little smile, seeing that
Warrington looked surprised.

^ Is that so ? Then I presume that is

why you sent Colonel Nysson away?'

Colonel Nysson did not call yesterday,
sir, and I should not presume to send
anyone away except by the doctor's
orders.'

The general told me '

Oh, he makes mistakes, sir. You
must not pay any attention to what he
says.'

'Indeed?' said Warrington, rather incredulously.


But in the evening, when he called
again with his brother, he found that the
nurse was right. The doctor was there,
and the general was telling him that in
the morning he had wished for some beef-tea,
and the nurse had refused to get it
for him.

On the whole, however, he was in a
better temper. He was short and cross

VOL. II. G

with the doctor, but he received Eustace
with a good deal of affection, and thanked
him for coming. For one thing, he could
not suspect that Eustace Warrington had
come with any intention of seeing whether
he had the jaundice or not. Still, he told
both the brothers rather gruffly that he
did not wish for a repetition of their visit
on the morrow. To the medical man
Warrington expressed some surprise respecting
the beef-tea.

My grandfather was the last man to be
guilty of falsehood,' he remarked, with an
accent of sorrow.

And he is not guilty of it,' answered
the doctor, quickly. ' He has the jaundice,
and it is the jaundice, not he.' He
continued, ' Come and see him as much as
you can, both of you. He will tell you he
does not wish it, but he will be hurt if you

neglect him And, in a lower tone, he
concluded, ' He will not live long.'

But the general sank very slowly. Even
now his wonderful constitution continued
to bear him up ; and from day to day little
difference was perceptible. The brothers
were assiduous in their visits. The old man
continued to tell them that he did not
want to see them, and, two times out of
three, either scolded them for disturbing
him, or accused them of coming to
see whether he had the jaundice. However,
after a few days, when they happened
both to be with him, he said,

Why don't you two boys come and stay
with me, instead of wasting your money at
an hotel. I can't do anything to make
you comfortable ; they have mismanaged
me so, and made me so ill; but you can
do what you can for yourselves ; and I'm

a2

sure you are both welcome : only don't
come bothering me in my room

So the brothers brought their things over
from their hotel.

After that they were with him, one or
other, almost incessantly, all the day, and
often a part of the night. ' I told you
when you came to stay with me, not to be
bothering me, by coming in here,' was the
welcome they generally received ; but, on
the other hand, if they left him for
^NQ minutes, the old man said to the
nurse,

^ Where are those boys gone ? They
never come to sit with me now.'

Now and then the old man had a few
minutes during which his reason got the
better of his malady. During one of these
he said to Warrington,

I am a bad-tempered old fool, Frank.

I've been a passionate man all my life ;
and being laid up bere a prisoner day
after day, and full of pain, isn't the sort
of thing to mend a man's temper. But
you must not mind me, my boy, I can't
help it.'

Afterwards he began to sink more rapidly.
Every day he was visibly weaker, and
each succeeding twenty-four hours took
from him a little of his small remaining
strength. Only his irritability continued
undiminished. But he was no longer able
to rave and storm at his nurse, and the
doctor and everyone else that came near
him. He had sunk into a mere feeble
querulousness, a ceaseless whining complaint
that was interrupted only by his dozing
off to sleep, or by his actual physical
incapacity to maunder on. Then, all of a
sudden, one day he was much better. He

complained, indeed, a great deal of cold,
and of the ' rheumatism ' in his knees and
in his right shoulder, but he sat up,
propped by pillows, and seemed brighter
than he had been for a long time.

In the afternoon the colonel came in to
see him. The general was a little tired,
but he kept his old friend talking for a
long time ; speaking of one reminiscence
after another of times gone by : not recollections
of his active middle life, nor of his
young manhood, but of the first years the
colonel and he had spent together at
Winchester, and of the still remote days of
his earliest childhood.

It was nearly seven o'clock when Colonel
Nysson left.

But the next day the general was very
much worse, feebler than ever before, and
all the day long drowsy and lethargic,

only waking from time to time to fret
and to complain in a faint voice, and then
to doze oiF again.

And he did not afterwards rally. As
the days passed the heavy lethargy grew
upon him, and his conscious moments
became rarer and rarer. And still it
seemed to take a long time to bring the
end.

The brothers had been in town a fortnight.
Four days had passed since the
afternoon that the old man had talked
for three hours of his childhood. To-day,
he had lain all day like a log, motionless
almost, and unconscious. When the night
came, Warrington announced his intention
of remaining with him. The watch was a
gentle service now that the bitterness of
the struggle was passed, and death could
not be far off. But the general lived

through the night. Only in the morning
the angel of the dawn gathered up the
old soldier's soul as he passed, and when
the sun rose the general had entered into
his rest.

"Warrington himself called on the doctor
and the solicitor.

We shall not open the will,' he said,
until after the funeral. The Misses Chesterfield
ought to be informed, but I don't
know where they are.'

I believe that they are still with Mr,
Anthony Gainsborough,' replied the solicitor.
' We can easily find them. And I
may as well tell you at once that General
Chesterfield has disinherited his granddaughters.'


CHAPTER y.

The same day, at sunset, an English
steam-yacht lay off in the Bay of Naples.

On the deck two girls "walked up and
down, enjoying the cool of the evening.

The yacht was Anthony Gainsborough's
and the girls were Violet and Essie
Chesterfield. Now and again the sisters
stopped, and, standing side by side, spent
a few minutes in admiration of the beauty
of the scene, and then resumed their walk
and their conversation.

Anyone who had known the sisters in

London would have found a considerable
alteration in their appearance. They
looked stronger and healthier. Four
months' cruising in the Mediterranean had
put brighter roses into their cheeks,
kindled a clearer light in their eyes, and
given fresh elasticity to their step. But a
change more material than that had
passed in the expression of the two fair
young faces. The shade of disingenuousness
they had both had in London had
vanished, and, free and happy instead of
miserable, the girls had got back the
frankness and gentleness natural to their
years.

They were talking of their uncle; the
same Anthony Gainsborough of whom
Maud was wont to give so unsatisfactory
an account.

Uncle Tony is perfection,' Essie was

saying. ' I loved him always, but it is
only since we have lived With him that I
have understood how good and kind he

IS.

I don't believe there is a man in the
world like him,' chimed in Violet ; ^ he is
all goodness. I really believe Uncle Tony
has never done an ill-natured thing nor
said an unkind word in the whole of his
life.'

He makes me feel awfully ashamed of
myself,' continued Essie. ' Many times I
have positively hated myself when I have
been listening to him or watching him,
and have thought of what I should have
done in his place.'

I know,' assented her sister. ' I am
sure, among other things, now, that we
behaved very badly to grandpa. Uncle
Tony took our part and was very kind ; I

believe lie would take anyone's part who
lie thought was ill-used. But hasn't he
made us feel, Essie, that we behaved badly
to grandpa ?'

He has,' admitted Essie. She continued:
sand I know, Violet, that he
thinks you behaved badly to Frank.'

^ That is another thing,' observed Violet,
coldly.

^Ah, but he will make you think that
too, before he has done, Violet. There is
something in Uncle Tony that is too strong
for all one's pride and obstinacy. But to
return to grandpa: I wish we could
somehow beg his pardon, Violet.'

Yes, I wish we could.'

Uncle Tony has a great admiration for
grandpa,' observed Essie, thoughtfully.
Somehow he seems to see all his merits,
and to be indulgent to all his faults.'

That is just like Uncle Tony, is it
not?'

One of the yacht's boats that had been
to the shore for letters came out in a
straight line towards the steamer. As it
drew nearer the girls stopped at the gangway
to watch it come up, and as the mate
stepped on board they asked.

Anything for us, Wallace ?'

Nothing, miss,' answered the mate, and
passed on to take the letters he had brought
into the cabin.

The girls resumed their promenade and
some minutes passed, time enough for
them to Avalk the length of the deck and
back.

Then Anthony Gainsborough came upon
deck. The sisters had passed aft, and
he followed them. In his hand he held a
thin piece of coloured paper.

Essie looked round, and the two stopped
for him to come up to them.

I don't know whether I ought to
prepare you for the news,' said Anthony-gainsborough.
* General Chesterfield died
this morning. Wallace found a telegram
for me at the hotel.'

And he gave them the telegram to
read.

Both the sisters read the telegram, and
then Essie gave it back. Neither of them
said a word, but they were both a little
pale.

I came to tell you that you might
know at once,' said Anthony Gainsborough
; ' but I must go now to get ready
to go ashore. I must try to be in London
for the funeral.'

And he left them.

The sisters moved to where two deck

chairs stood side by side, and sat down.
The first to speak was Violet. Looking
up, she said,

What are you thinking of, Essie ?'

I was thinking that I wish we had
begged grandpa's pardon.'

Do you know, I was thinking the same
thing.'

It is too late now,' said Essie.

Rising she went to the bulwark and
looked at the blue water.

Presently her sister joined her.

'We shall be able to go back to England,'
said Essie.

Yes. And I am glad of that. Uncle
Tony shed to spend this summer at
Twickenham.'

The gig was being got ready to go
ashore again, and presently Anthony
Gainsborough came on deck with a

small valise. The sisters went up to
him.

Uncle Tony said Violet. ^ Essie and I
are very sorry for the way we behaved to
grandpa; we wish that we could have
begged his pardon.'

Yes, uncle. I wish we had,' added
Essie, with the tears coming up into her
eyes. ' But now — it is too late.'

Not for the wish, Essie,' said Anthony
Gainsborough, laying his hand on the girl's
shoulder.

Violet took some gold from her purse.

If you have time, uncle, when you get
to London, buy for us some wreaths for
grandpa's funeral — the best that you
can get.'

The boat put off, and the girls stood by
the bulwark watching it make its way
towards shore. Only when it had faded

from sight in the coming darkness they
went below.

Anthony Gainsborough arrived in time
to be present at the general's funeral, and
to send the flowers the girls had commissioned
him to buy ; and the old soldier
was carried to his grave shrouded in the
white blossoms that betokened his granddaughters'
repentance.

The general's will was a curiosity. After
a few small legacies, it divided his fortune,
which was considerable, into four equal
portions, and bequeathed one to each of
his grandchildren, Violet Chesterfield,
Essie Chesterfield, Frank Warrington,
Eustace Warrington. But then came a
codicil, dated early in the previous
December, and by this codicil, the general,
after reciting his granddaughters' mis-vol.

II. H

conduct in running away from Hs house,
revoked his legacy to Violet Chesterfield,
and gave the whole of it to Frank Warrington,
and revoked his legacy to Essie
Chesterfield, and gave the whole of that
to Frank Warrington, too.

As the solicitor remarked, it would have
been a simpler thing to make a new will,
but the old gentleman was resolved, not
only to make his displeasure felt, but
to put it upon record, and had insisted
upon the codicil, worded as he chose ;
and a very ill-natured and vindictive
document it proved to be, but — unluckily
for the Miss Chesterfields — very good
in law.

In the evening Eustace went to bed
early. The dreary day had fatigued him,
and given him a headache. Warrington
and Anthony Gainsborough sat up late

smoking almost in silence by the library
fire.

But when Anthony rose to say. ' Goodnight,'
"Warrington said to him,

I have one thing to say to you before
you 2*0. Mr. Gainsborouofh. Mv grandfather
added that codicil to his-^vill when
his displeasure at my cousins' leaving his
home was fresh, and at its height, whilst
he was smarting under a great provocation,
and at the same time falling into failing
health. But I know that grandfather
always meant to be kind to the girls, and,
had he lived, he might have though: \ 'sir
of what he had done. Anyhow, out of
respect to his memory, as soon as :h-} ■ r o-
party is in my possession. I shall send my
cousins their fortunes. I shall leave it to
you to tell them that, as soon as you see
them, or to let them learn it when the

h2

money arrives, as you may think best
And, as Anthony Gainsborough was

about to say something respecting the

generosity of this conduct, he concluded,
'I beg your pardon, but I had rather

that you said nothing about that.'

CHAPTER VI.

Warrington and his brother returned to
the country as soon as they conveniently
could. Many things required Warrington's
attention at Lynhurst, and he was loth to
be absent longer than was necessary.

Lily and he met in the High Street, not
many days after his return, and their
meeting was a bright one. It was with a
pleasure quite unexpected that Warrington
found himself once more shaking hands
with pretty Lily Hard^vick, whilst looking
into her bright blue eyes. Really, he confessed

to himself at the moment, he had a
liking for the girl. And, as for Lily, all
her uncomfortable fears, that she was
wasting her love on a man who did
not want it, were charmed away in an
instant by the smile on Warrington's
face, and the cordial manner in which he
shook hands with her and inquired how
she had been. They walked home together
as far as their roads continued in
the same direction, and before they parted
stood a full quarter-of-an-hour, talking ;
and Lily returned to Cliff Cottage as
happy as a queen, saying to herself,

He likes me. I am sure he does. I
am sure he does.'

It was May now, and every landscape
was robing itself in tender green. The
tall elms and the beeches were in leaf
already, and it was shady in the woods.

The thrift was in flower on the cliffs,
painting them with broad dashes of pink,
and the wild orchids in the marsh
meadows, and the tiny bright-eyed forget-me-nots,
the blue-bells and the dog-violets
in the hedges, and the yellow broom, with
here and there crab apples opening their
pale pink blossoms, and the sweet may
filling the air with its perfume.

Cliff Cottage was a picture. About the
porch the pious japonica, with its wide-opened
scarlet blossoms, and its quaint
gnarled black stems, was in full flower,
and the verandah all around was gay with
the hanging blossoms of the pale purple
westaria. The ives were grown very dark,
but the young leaves began to peep boldly
among the old ones, and the other creepers
were in their freshest spring hues. Against
the supporting pillars the roses were in

flower. Down the winding garden there
were everywhere gay beds of tulips, and
great gaudy peonies, and guelder roses,
and bright anemones and narcissi, and
the chestnuts that bordered one part of
the lawn had decked their beautiful domes
of foliage with crowded spikes of white
and pink blossoms, pointing upwards like
tapers to the sky. There were garden-seats
under the chestnuts in a pleasant,
sheltered spot, and already on the warm
afternoons Lily had begun to take her
book there to read after luncheon. Now,
when she got home, she strolled across
the lawn to the trees, and sat there for
quite half-an-hour, and afterwards strolled
down to the bottom of the garden before
going in. Her heart was too full to be
able at once to speak to anyone.

Even when she came in at last, she

said nothing to Maud about liavino-
met Warrington. But Maud made a
pretty shrewd guess at what had happened.


The terms of General Chesterfield's will
had already become known in Lynham,
and there had been a good deal of
speculation respecting how rich ]mr.
Warrington would be. Maud had been
listening to it all in silence, looking;
about her meanwhile, for some plan by
which she might, for a time at least, get
her dangerous rival Lily out of her way.
It would be no jest if Warrington, now ina
position to marry easily, were on the
spot to use his liberty to propose to
Lily.

His return at a date earlier than the
young widow had anticipated found her
with her plans immature ; and Lily's telltale

eyes that evening distinctly disconcerted
her.

Maud had given up resisting her passion.
What was the use of it? The love was
stronger than she, and she could not wish
it otherwise. And, perhaps, she had done
all that she could.

But presently another rumour became
current in the little country town. There
would be no very great difference at Lynn
After all, Mr. Warrington would not
be so much more wealthy. He intended
to share his fortune with his disinherited
cousins.

The man must be mad !' said Maud to
herself when she heard it.

One afternoon she and Lily met Eustace
Warrington about half-a-mile from
the gates of Lynhurst on the road to the
town. He was alone.

'• You see, I am getting on,' he said, with
some pride. ' I know my way all about
Frank's place, now, and I am learning the
road to the town. One of these days you
will meet me in Lynham alone, doing my
own shopping.'

He insisted that the ladies should come
back with him, to see his roses.

'You will be quite surprised to see
what a show I have already,' he said.

He walked back with them, just flicking
the hedge from time to time with his
cane, so carelessly that it seemed barely
credible that he was assuring himself of
his way. When he reached the gate, he
opened it and held it for them to pass
through.

You see we have already done something
for the place,' he remarked, pointing
with his stick to the even, newly-laid gravel

path on wliicli they were walking : 'and
now we turn this way.'

The rosary proved to be a rather formal
rectangular enclosure laid out somewhat
in the fashion of a Dutch garden. Eustace
took them from plat to plat, calling
their attention to his various flowers.
The thing of which he was proudest of all
was his knowledge of their colours. Once
only he made a mistake. Lily and the
widow were too polite to say anything, but
he detected it, nevertheless,

I made a mistake then, about those
white roses, did I not?' he asked. 'They
are not exactly white.'

No : cream colour,' said Lily.

Cream colour : thank you,' he answered ;
but added : ' But you should have told
me at once. These colours, you see,
are things I cannot get at at all unless

some one will tell me. And I was sure
from your silence that I had made a
mistake.'

Then he began to cut them some of the
flowers, insisting that they must accept
them.

Whilst he was so occupied, Lily standing
near him, and Maud a little way ois, he
asked, with a smile,

And, Miss Hardwick, what is it you are
wishing to ask me ?'

Dear me, Mr. Warrington, how do you
know that I am wishing to ask you something?'


Why, I can hear in your voice. That
is very simple, is it not ? Come now. Miss
Hardwick, what is it?' he added, good-naturedly,
at the same time neatly cutting
off a rose with his pocket-knife and putting
it into her hand.

Encouraged by his tone, Lily asked,
straightforwardly,

Mr. Warrington, is it true that your
brother has divided the fortune General
Chesterfield left him with his cousins ?'

Quite true,' answered Eustace, promptly.
' The thing is not done yet, but it will be
done in a few days now. My brother has
given his cousins two-thirds of his inheritance.
He would like his generosity in the
matter to be a secret, but I have taken good
care that it should be known. There are
too many people who underrate Frank, and
have no suspicion of the splendid fellow
he is. So what I have told you. Miss
Hard wick, you will do me a kindness by
repeating. If people were aware how the
Misses Chesterfield behaved to Frank, they
would know that Frank has done a thing
of which not many men would be capable.'

I have heard about the Miss Chester-fields
said Lily, quietly. 'And I think
she added, with enthusiasm, Svhat Mr.
Warrington has done is most noble.'

That was not what Maud Gainsborouofh

o

thought when Lily told her on the way
home what she had learned from Eustace.

In the first crushing moment of conviction
that the miserable rumour was true,
Maud exclaimed in herself,

The fool ! The miserable fool ! What
has he done?'

Then, less passionately, but with a
sickly despair, the young widow revolved
with herself all that this last act of Warrington
entailed. Again he was poor, or
only somewhat richer than before. All
that was possible if he were wealthy, was
lost again; had slipped from her eager
hands ready to grasp it, and left her where

she was before, with her poverty, and her
miseries, and her forlorn, hopeless love.

And she had just lighted on a plan for
disembarrassing herself, at least for a time,
of the dangerous presence of her cousin ; at
any rate, for long enough, in her opinion,
to allow her sensibly to supplant what
influence the girl had over the man she
loved.

And now ?

Now she might spare herself the trouble
of carrying out her plans, of doing anything.


It was all over.

Certainly the turn in affairs was cruel
for her. Warrington's generous conduct
towards his cousins cost her — everything
she loved or cared for. She felt so sure of
the man, if she once used her arts to
bewitch him. And hers was no common

love. Maud Gainsborough was not commonplace.
She as often behaved ill as
well ; as often — more often — did wrong
than right ; but whether she did right or
wrong, Whether she behaved ill or well,
she did not do things in common ways.
And she was not cheaply, vulgarly in love
with "Warrington. She was in love with
him with all the energy of her intense,
nervous nature, with all the fervour of her
vivid, passionate imagination.

The revulsion from the flattery of hope
to a new despair made her very bitter.
She had ceased to regard a marriage
between Warrington and Lily as the legitimate
end of their acquaintance ; and she
was not now disposed to go back to that
view of their future. Rather, if she, Maud,
was not to have the man she loved, because
he was poor; at least it was fair that

VOL. IL I

neither should Lily have him either. He
was not for sale, for Lily to buy him with
her fortune ! If the flirtation grew more
serious, Lily should go away after all.

But the flirtation did not become serious.
The days and weeks passed, and Lily Hardwick
and Frank Warrington got no nearer
to each other at all. They met often in a
casual way, and Warrington was always
pleased to see Lily, and sometimes kind.
But his liking for her appeared to be of a
very platonic sort.

Lily felt it herself, and asked her heart,
with misgiving,

If he does not love me, why is he always
so pleased to see me, so nice, so kind?
He is not so to anyone else. But, if he
does love me, why does he remain so dispassionate,
so cold ?'

One by one, all the sweet hopes that, on

Warrington's return, had come back to her
in a flock, like the swallows in the spring,
began to take their flight, and to leave
the poor little heart once more dreary,
pensive, and sad. Soon Warrington's cold
kindness began to seem more cruel even
than neglect. It resembled trifling with
her : and how could she suffer that ?

Avoient deceive themselves less about
their love affairs than men; happily for
them, seeing how much less the event is
in their own control. Lily was soon saying
to herself,

He likes to talk to me, and to be nice
to me, because I am pretty. But he does
not care for me really, and I am only being
a little fool.'

But then what days of heart-ache
followed : what a dull, vacant pain ! It
made her indifferent to everything. The

i2

splendid days of a glorious summer passed
in their golden beauty, the royal sunshine
filled the laughing air, the flowers bloomed;
and the great earth put on all her pomp
and majesty. But Lily heeded nothing.
She was trying to learn to live through a
great disappointment, and that was enough.
It was all over between her and Mr. Warrington.
She kept at home and tried to
avoid seeing him.

What an opportunity for Maud, if Warrington
had not chosen to be poor ! The
widow saw it, and, in secret, wrung her
hands over her wretchedness.

Lily got no help from her now, and no
compassion. Certainly she asked for none.
Mrs. Gainsborough's view of the situation
was that her cousin was behaving like a
little fool, and getting her deserts.

Once she said to the girl,

You and Mr. Warrington are not getting
on very brightly, it seems.'

He does not care for me, Maud,' replied
the girl, sadly.

Maud knew better than that, but she
only said,

^Vhy don't you make him? You mismanage
him.'

Thank you : you have told me that
before.'

If I have, is it not true ? You may
have him, if you like. You don't like.
Then don't have him.'

Look here, Maud,' suddenly exclaimed
the girl, catching her cousin's arm with a
passion that was rare in her. ' Do you
know what you can be, sometimes ? You
can be heartlessly cruel !'

And she flung the widow's arm away
from her, angrily.

And that time she did not come afterwards,
as usual, to beg for pardon.

At last Maud Gainsborough got tired of
the girl's pale cheeks and low spirits.

Lily,' she said one morning. ' What do
you say to a month with your guardian
Mr. Tanner in London. You will come in
for the end of the season. And you seem
so miserable here.'

Lily thought. This was going away
from him. And, heart-sick as she was, she
disliked that.

I know why you want me to go, Maud,'
she said : ' and you mean it kindly. You
think I shall be amused and forget him.
Well, then, Maud, I slant. I love him too
much. And — Z dont avant to go.'

^ Besides,' she ran on, for her cousin, a
little nonplussed by the directness of her
answer, remained silent : ' I don't know

that Mr. and Mrs. Tanner want to have me.
And I shan't enjoy myself, and I shall only
be a nuisance to them.'

'Well, dear, if you will not be advised,'
said Maud, yieldin^^ly.

'No, Maud, it is not that. I am miserable
enough, goodness knows. And it
seems to me that I always shall be now.
But I don't want to be sent away because
of Mr. Warrington.'

'My dear girl,' replied Maud, quietly;
you will come back again. And Mr.
Warrington will still be here.'

Simple and obvious as the remark was,
it was a masterpiece of an answer, because
it replied not to the girl's words but to
her thoughts. And its effect was immediate.


The widow saw that, and continued,

Please understand, dear, that Mr. Warrington

has no weight at all with me one
way or the other. The thing I am thinking
of is your health. I promised your guardian
that I would take every care of you.
At present I am convinced that you ought
to have change of air. And, if I don't try
to make you take it, I don't think I am
keeping my promise to Mr. Tanner. If
you come back to me no better, I have
made a mistake. Of course that is possible.
But, if you ask me what I ivish^ I
believe you do want change of air, and I
do wish, dear, that you would take it.'

ril go, Maud,' said the girl.

There is a dear, good, sensible girl,'
said Maud, kissing her. ' I wish that I
could go with you, dear. We would have
a charming little trip to town together.
But as it would take me six months' correspondence
with my precious brother-in-law

to get leave, and then he would very likely
revoke it at the last minute, that is not
possible.'

It was arranged that Maud should write
and make all the necessary arrangements.
Accordingly, the same evening; the widow
wrote a letter to Mrs. Tanner.

It will be sufficient to quote only a part
of it.

'A Mr. Warrington, who has recently
come into an estate in the neighbourhood,
came to live here, some few months since.
He is a good-looking sort of man, agreeable
and exceedingly gentlemanly. I began,
shortly after his arrival, to suspect that
Lily had conceived a little tenderness for
him, and it appears that I was right. However,
recently, he and Lily have quarrelled.
The affair has made poor Lily rather
unhappy, and she has been moping a good

deal, and is pale and low-spirited. There
is nothing serious amiss ; and I think that
a little change of scene and some amusement
would set our young friend right.
Under these circumstances, I have thought
it best to write to you, if you could have
Lily to stay with you for a few weeks in
town,' etc.

Only, a little further on, Maud remarked
casually,

As you may be curious to know something
about the gentleman, I may tell you
that Mr. Warrington is a man with whom
any girl might naturally fall in love. His
place near here, Lynhurst, is a very pretty
place, but not large. It is reputed to be
heavily mortgaged and is in a great state
of dilapidation, and I believe that Mr.
Warrington is far from being able to spend
upon it as much as is required. So possibly

the little quarrel that has occurred is
not to be regretted.'

Sealing the letter, Maud said to herself,


There, they cannot refuse, I think.
And I am really growing tired of Lily's
dumps.'

Two answers came almost by return of
post. One for Maud from Mrs. Tanner,
one for Lily from her guardian Mr. Tanner.
Mrs. Tanner thanked Maud for her sensible,
straightforward letter, and Mr. Tanner
sent Lily a very pretty invitation to come
and spend some weeks with them in
town.

Of course the invitation was accepted,
and the date of Lily's departure was fixed
for the next week.

Now that it was all arranged, Lily herself
was rather pleased with the prospect of her

visit. After all, she had her measure of
pride, and was disposed to show a little
spirit about the way in which Warrington
was slighting her.

It chanced that a day or two later she
met Warrington on the esplanade. He had
been walking, and she had been to morning
service at the church.

Warrington was, as always, agreeable,
almost deferential ; but cool, dispassionate
entirely.

Lily cut their conversation short ; for his
manner hurt her. She had, she said, to
hurry home.

And,' she added, ^ I may as well say
good-bye. I am going to London next
week, for the end of the season. And we
may very probably not meet again before
then.'

Warrington looked surprised.

I hope you will enjoy yourself, Miss
Hardwick,' he said, ' but I am sorry to hear
that you are going away.'

A hundred possibilities had flashed in a
moment through his mind ; the London
season, with its fascinations, its opportunities,
its flirtations; and this pretty girl,
charming, ingenuous ; a dozen men might
be ready to make love to her, to marry
her.

*Why should you be sorry that I am
going away ? It will make no difference to
you,' remarked Lily.

Well, really, why was he sorry? He
knew he was sorry, but hardly why. And,
as he hesitated for a reply, Lily went on,
looking down,

*Mr. Warrington, I wish you would tell
me what I have done that you should be
unkind to me.'

Unkind ! Miss Hardwick !'

I call it unkind to let a girl know that
you feel no respect for her. And I am sure
you can feel no respect for a girl to whom
you say things that you know are not true
as that my going away matters to you.
I don't know what you can have seen in
me that makes you think I should like
to be spoken to in that way.' And holding
out her hand she concluded, briefly, ' goodbye.'


CHAPTER Iii.

The return of the Chesterfield girls to
England was a very simple affair. One
fine morning Anthony Gainsborough's
yacht steamed into the mouth of the
Thames and up to Gravesend. There a
little screw-launch was waiting to meet
her. The transference of some necessary
luggage occupied 'a very few minutes, and
then the launch took the two sisters with
their lady's-maid and their uncle on the
flood-tide straight up to Twickenham, and
landed them in easy time for dinner. The

old housekeeper, with new black silk
ribbons in her cap, received them with a
curtsey in the hall, and so they were at
home, and at once, without any further
ado, went to dress for dinner, much as if
they had returned only from a walk, or
had come in from an afternoon spent in
town.

Their new home was a large, ugly old-fashioned
house, beautifully furnished, and
standing in pretty and rather extensive
grounds. The girls were not quite
strangers to the place. Once they had
visited it when their grandmother was
alive, and then it had seemed to them a
sort of palace in the midst of a fairy-land
in which grand mamma lived in a kind of
royal state. Now, on renewing their
acquaintance with it, they found both the
fairyland and the palace a good deal

smaller than they seemed to recollect
them. But they found also many
things, which they had not, when little
lassies, noticed at all, valuable furniture,
and rare books, and priceless pictures.

Anthony Gainsborough was at home
and away from home irregularly. Amongst
other things he was attending to the repairs
of his yacht at present laid up in
dock. When at home he wandered about
the house and surrounds smoking: his biog

• CD CD

pipe, sat in the sun, looked at the flowers,
and occasionally talked to the girls. He
had the screw-launch on the river, and
often took them out with him in it, and
he indulged them frequently in the amusements
of town.

Left to do very much as they liked, the
sisters amused themselves in their own
way, and contracted a liking for the house-vol.

II. K

keeper, Mrs. Simpson, a personable old
woman, who had been in service in the
family for a great number of years, and
knew all the family histories, and on her
side took a fancy to the two girls.

One day when they were talking to the
old dame, hearing what she had to say
about the childhood of their mother and of
their uncle, Violet observed that she did not
believe her Uncle Tony could be angry if
he tried.

You take care never to make him angry,
miss. If you do, you'll not forget it,' remarked
the old woman.

Why ?' asked Essie, ^ has he ever been
angry with you, Mrs. Simpson ?'

No, miss. I never gave him reason :
and I hope I never shall.'

But you have seen him angry with
some one T

I have, miss,' replied Mrs. Simpson.

'AYho was it, Mrs. Simpson?' asked Essie,
whose curiosity was aroused.

^ Not anyone you know, miss,' answered
the old woman, in a tone that meant she
was not going to say any more.

Then it seems that Uncle Tony can be
angry,' observed Essie to her sister afterwards,
when they were alone.

And there is some history connected
with that,' added Violet. 'You could
see that from the way Mrs. Simpson
spoke.'

I should vastly like to know what it is,'
observed Essie.

But though Anthony Gainsborough was
indulgent, he was not a person easy to
question ; and Essie's curiosity had to remain
ungratified.

One afternoon, when they had been in

K ^

England about a fortnight, they had taken
their needlework out on the lawn and sat
sewing and talking under the trees.
Whilst they were so occupied, their
uncle came across the lawn to them
thrusting a letter into his breast-pocket
as he approached.

Well, young ladies,' he asked, Svhat is
it that I find you discussing so earnestly ?
If it is permitted to inquire ?'

We were talking, Uncle Tony, of how
much happier we have been with you than
we were with grandpa,' said Violet, putting
down her work. 'How kindly you
have treated us, and how ill he did.'

'And you might add how ill you behaved
to grandpa, eh ?' suggested
Anthony Gainsborough.

Well, yes. We did not behave very
well to him,' admitted Essie.

'But,' put in Violet, 'orr and papa has
had his revenge, and disinherited us.'

Anthony Gainsborough put his arm
within hers, and led her for a stroll around
the lawn, Essie coming with them.

'Which is what you might have expected,
as you knew what sort of man your grandfather
was,' said Anthony Gainsborough,
continuing the conversation. ' Still you
Avould have preferred to have been forgiven
?'

Certainly,' said Essie.

Anthony Gainsborough took out his big
pipe and slowly filled it. Then, having
lighted it, he remarked,

There was some one else rather
badly used beside the general, was there
not?'

Mr. Warrington,' said Violet. ' H'm,
yes. He tuas rather badly treated.'

Mr. Warrington is — ' began Essie, and
broke off.

'Mr. Warrington is what?' asked her
uncle.

I won't say what I was going to say,
Uncle Tony. Perhaps it is not true.'

Good. But now, respecting your
cousin. You would prefer to be forgiven
by him too?'

The girls were silent.

You find that a little humiliating, eh ?'

They came to a garden seat, and he sat
down, the girls standing before him,
Essie with her arm about her sister's
waist.

Come now, girls,' he went on. ' Let us
look at the matter reasonably. You
behaved ill to your grandfather ; yet you
think he might have forgiven you. Your
Cousin Frank's behaviour was unimpeachable,

and you overreached him. If he
condoned the way you behaved to him, his
behaviour is so much the better, and yours
so much the worst. If he cherishes
resentment, you are defenceless. Anyhow,
when you and he meet you have before you
an inevitable mauvais quart-cV-heure^ unless
you have sufficient spirit and courage
to '

To do what?' asked Violet.

To beg his pardon.'

What — for not marrying him ?' exclaimed
Violet.

Not for not marrying him, but for — I
don't want to use hard words, my dear.
You did me no wrong, and I have nothing
to say to it. I am willing enough to
believe that you fell into a mistake. If
you have the spirit and courage to beg
your cousin's pardon at the first opportunity,

you will have proved that a single
mistake does not derogate from a fine
character.'

'- Uncle Tony, I have not a fine character
said Violet, promptly.

'And, Uncle Tony, is Mr. Warrington's
conduct unimpeachable ? Mr. Warrington
has coolly enough accepted our fortunes,'
offered Essie.

And you would permit a man, whom
you have treated as you and your sister
have treated your cousin, to share his fortune
with you?' asked Anthony Gainsborough.
'For remember, after the will
the general left, it is his fortune.'

The girls were silent.

Anthony Gainsborough drew out the
letter he had in his pocket.

Well, to cut it short, girls,' he said,
offering them two cheques, ' here are your

fortunes. Frank Warrington has sent them
to you.'

But, uncle said Violet, regarding the
big cheque in her hand with misgiving,
can we accept them, from Mr. Warrington
?'

If you don't, you can't stay with me,'
said Anthony Gainsborough, with a
quiet emphasis that made both the sisters
open their eyes. Rising, he concluded,
Try to write and thank your cousin, ashe
deserves to be thanked, and bring your
letters to me.'

And with that he left them.

When an hour later the girls came
into the library with their notes, Violet
said,

We have written, Uncle Tony, but we
should like it if Cousin Frank would see us,
and make it all up. We would beg his

pardon. Would you go and see him for
us : and ask him to meet us ?'

Anthony Gainsborough went down to
Lynham. But Warrington was inexorable.
He would not see his cousins.

Now it is the girls who are behaving
well, and you who are behaving badly,
you know,' said Tony Gainsborough.

Warrington admitted that might be so.
But he would not see his cousins.

p being at Lynham, Anthony Gainsborough
went to call at Cliff Cottage. Lily was
out. Maud Gainsborough was at home,
and received him, asking herself, in an
agony of fear, what on earth could have
brought him down.

It did not appear that anything particular
had brought him. He was down on
business, and had simply come to pay a
call.

But he alluded to the telegram Maud
had sent him.

You wanted to go abroad ?' he asked.

'- Why — yes,' stammered Maud.

You still wish it ?'

No. I would rather stay here now.'

Anthony Gainsborough enquired no
further.

He only stayed a quarter-of-an-hour,
asking no questions except whether the
house was in satisfactory repair, and then
left, to Maud's ineffable relief.

When Lily, who passed him in the road,
came in, Maud said nothing to her about
the visit she had received. Which was a
mistake on Maud's part.

CHAPTER VIII.

The announcement of Lily Hardwick's
early departure for town, and the sudden
disquietude the words had occasioned him,
opened Frank Warrington's eyes, at last,
to the truth which he had been so long
singularly unable to see. As his brother
had foretold, he had fallen in love with
Miss Hardwick. The little chance meetings
with her, and the sound of her voice,
the sight of her bright eyes, and the touch
of her small hand had become somehow
necessary to him, and he shrank from the

prospect of foregoing them. Or, plainly, he
was falling in love. And, the more Warrington
questioned himself on the subject,
the more sure he was of it.

It was his opinion, too, that Lily was
not indifferent about him. If she had
been indifferent, she would not have cared
what he said.

The wisest thing he could have done
would have been to have talked over these
discoveries with his brother. But such.
tender little affairs are not the things men
discuss with one another : and Frank
Warrington took counsel only with himself.


He had not the faintest idea of marrying
Miss Haddock. If he married at all,
he meant to marry a woman a good deal
older, and with money. In consequence,
as a man of honourable feelings, he found

that his conduct with Miss Hardwick had
been not altogether free from blame.
Girls,' he argued, ' are naturally and instinctively
on the look-out for husbands.
A very little attention paid them, or anything
that can be construed into attention,
is at once interpreted by them to signify a
great deal.' Miss Hardwick might, from
her point of view, possibly feel that, if his
intentions were not serious, his conduct
was hardly gentlemanly. He certainly
did not intend to marry her : and it would
be his duty to be more circumspect for the
future.

But he was sorry, too, for the girl. If
there was a girl in the world whom he
would have gone a little out of his way to
humour, that girl was Lily Hardwick.
He admired her character, he respected it.
He was sorry to be the occasion of giving

her any pain. Still, there was no help
for it. The notion of seriously wooing
her was not to be entertained for an
instant. If she had taken a fancy to him,
perhaps partly by his fault, she must get
over it.

As for his own foolishness and susceptibility,
that proved only that he was a
weaker man than he supposed, and he
would have simply to cure himself of his
folly.

The best thing that could happen for
both Miss Hardwick and himself would be
that their good-bye on the esplanade
should prove a real farewell, that they
should not meet again before Miss Hardwick
went to town, and that, in town, she
should become enraged before she returned
to Lynham.

But his thoughts returned very often

to Lily and to what possibly her feelings
would be if she had really been unlucky
enough to form an attachment to him.
And so it came about that he formed a
resolution, if an opportunity should offer,
to let her see plainly the state of the case,
and to spare her at least the pain of
deceiving herself any further. To do that
much appeared to him nothing more than
an act of common humanity.

Circumstances favoured his plan. After
all, Lilj^'s visit to town was unavoidably
postponed, and, some days after their
meeting on the esplanade, they met again
just outside the big, iron gates of the
rectory, where Lily had been to pay the
rectors wife a visit.

She would have bowed and let Warrington
pass, but he stopped. And for the
first time he noticed that Lily was paler,

and, he thought, a little thinner than she
used to be. It was an additional inducement
to him to carry out his intention of
acquainting her with the truth.

I am glad we have met again. Miss
Hardwick,' he said. 'There was something
I wished to say to you.'

'Yes?'

She was looking into his face wistfully ;
thinking in herself how happy she could
have been if he could have cared for her
as she cared for him.

You know. Miss Hardwick,' he went
on, ' that last time we met I said something
that displeased you.'

Lily nodded. What on earth was he
going to say ?

Well, I know I ought not to have said
it ; that it was a foolish, rather sentimental
speech. And I hope you have forgiven

VOL. II. L

it. I forgot I fear, at the moment, what
I really am. I mean, you know,' he continued,
in a frank, straightforward way
that appealed at once to the girl's heart,
that I am a much poorer man than I
pass for. I am not badly off, perhaps,
but I have taken on my shoulders the
redemption of a big estate, which means
heavy expenses, you see, and debts, and
long responsibilities ; and — well, I ought
not to be saying pretty things and paying
compliments to young ladies.'

Lily stood leaning against the big, iron
gate that stood half-open, with her hand
lightly closed around one of its bars.
The sun, piercing through the leafage of
the tall trees planted on either side of the
gate, fell in broken light upon her shoulders,
and her pretty hair, and her young
cheeks, and made her a charming picture.

'No one would object to your paying
compliments that you meant,' she let fall,
in a rather embarrassed way, looking down
coyly.

For the moment a suspicion was beginning
to present itself that he was going to
propose.

But he answered, quietly,

That is not it, Miss Hard wick. A man
in my position has no right to mean these
things, and I am much obliged to you for
having reminded me of it. That is what
I had to say to you. The fact is, Miss
Hardwick, that I fear we have both been
deceiving ourselves ; and so, just at present,
it is a good thing, perhaps, that we are
going to see less of each other.'

The girl looked up, and a sudden light
flashed in the depths of her large blue
eyes. Then her eyelids fell, as a hot blush

l2

covered her face, and lie clenched her
hand tightly, in an effort to conceal her
agitation. This man was telling her, in
other words, that he could see that she was
in love with him, but that he had no
intention of proposing to her.

But, as he had stopped, stifling as she
was, she had to speak.

That is what you wished to say to me ?*
she asked.

'And that I hope you have forgiven my
silly speech.'

For answer, she only asked, ' Which way
are you going T

Homewards. And you T

I am going the other way. So I will
wish you good-morning.'

She just touched his hand with hers,
barely that ; and so they parted.

'I am afraid she didn't quite like it,'

mused Warrington, walking on towards
Lynhurst. ' Still it was only fair to her.'

Lily walked a little way towards the
town, and then, when she was sure she
would not overtake Warrington, turned
back.

'I have had a lesson that people who
cannot take slight hints get broad ones,'
she said to herself.

She was quite mistress of herself, singularly
little hurt, considering how passionately
she loved the man ; but indignant,
furiously indignant, and already asking
herself what she was going to do after an
affront of such a nature as this.

Dinner and the evening passed as usual,
and she had the skill to manage that Maud
should suspect nothing. But, in her own
room, she sat up late, brooding over the
scene that had passed at the rectory gates,

and, when she retired to rest at last, found
it difficult to sleep.

The birds and the summer morning sun
woke her early, and, finding that slumber
would not be courted whilst her brain was
in its present fever of indignation, she got
up.

For a little while she sat in her peignoir
at her open window, wistfully regarding
the beauty of the summer morning. Then,
a sudden idea occurring to her, she made
a hasty toilet, and slipped downstairs.

Leaving the house, she went down the
garden ; and, reaching the cliff, descended
the steps to the beach, and there sat down
on the sand facing the sea.

A little breeze blew on shore, just
enough to make the sea crisp with ripples.
The breeze was fresh, but not cold, laden
with the sweetness of the morning and the

sharp saltness of the sea. It seemed to
nerve her spirits, and to cool the fever of
her brain ; and by-and-by she ceased to
watch the curling of the ripples, and to
amuse herself with tossing pebbles into
the water, and set herself to reflect
seriously.

I almost vowed to be his good angel,'
she reflected ; ' to bring him to believe
that we are not all bad. And I love
him. I do love him. But that was insufferable.*


She stayed a long time on the beach,
but, when she returned at length to Cliff
Cottage, her mind was made up.

It was a Sunday morning, and, on fine
Sunday mornings, the small fashionable
world of Lynham promenaded the little
esplanade after morning service. The
esplanade lay right before them as they

came out of church, and a turn by the sea
naturally suggested itself as an agreeable
way of spending the half-hour or so between
service and the hour of midday
dinners.

This Sunday morning promenade was
one of the things that Eustace Warrington,
with his naturally sociable turn of mind,
particularly enjoyed. This morning, he
and his brother proceeded as usual after
church to the esplanade.

They walked as far as one end of it and
then turned back, walking slowly and
stopping from time to time to speak to
different acquaintances. Presently Warrington
said to his brother,

Here is Miss Hardwick coming.'

'Is her cousin with her?' asked Eustace.

'No : she is alone.'

Lily had seen them. Her moment was

come. She was nearer now ; quite close ;
only a few steps from them.

Warrington was already about to raise
his hat, and to give his brother the little
pressure of his arm, which was the sign
to him to do the same, when something in
the expression of Lily's features arrested
his attention.

Her face was rigidly set, and she
seemed to have no intention of bowing.
Instead, she looked for a moment at
Warrington and his brother, a hard look
from the corners of her eyes, a regard
like a stranger's regard of momentary
curiosity.

And then she had passed.

Before she had gone a step further, she
heard Eustace ask,

Was that Miss Hardwick who passed
us?'

What Warrington replied Lily did not
hear.

Warrington's answer was a rather confused,
' Yes.' He had been taken a good
deal by surprise.

^ But you should not have let me pass
her without bowing,' said Eustace, annoyed.

Why,' answered Warrington, ' the fact
is she cut us dead.'

Cut us !'

An acquaintance of Warrington's, one
of the hunt, came up. He had seen what
had passed.

you and Miss Hardwick are cuts, then,'
he remarked to Warrington.

Yes,' said Warrington, easily, 'you saw
just now.'

A good many people had seen : and
went home with something to talk about.

Lily left the parade, and went home.

It was all over ! for ever, and ever, and
ever. The young love-dream and the dear
hopes : the proud mission of winning him
back to believe in womanhood's nobility :
all over, vanished, lost ! for ever, and
ever, and ever.

She said nothing to her cousin. Maud,
in the course of the afternoon, remarked
that she was pale, and inquired the cause,
but she answered, with truth, that she
had a headache.

But on Monday afternoon Mrs. Gainsborough
heard all about the affair in Lynn
and at once returned home.

Lily was in the dining-room making up
some bouquets. She had the advantage
of the widow, for she had foreseen that
Maud must hear the news in the town,
and had guessed that she would at once
come back to ask what it meant.

The widow came into the room quickly,
without shutting the door behind her, and
putting her sunshade on the table, with
her hands resting upon it, said hurriedly,

You cut the Warrington yesterday on
the parade after church.'

eyes,' answered Lily, slowly putting a
flower into the middle of a bouquet.

But — what on earth did you do that
for?'

For reasons of my own.'

But it seems to me that you put me ina
very awkward position. You might, at
least, have told me what you were going
to do. Am I expected to second you ?
Do you want me to cut them too ?'

You can do as you like.'

But ' began the widow.

^ Oh, my goodness, Maud, don't bother
me about it !' exclaimed the girl.

And, putting down her flowers, she
rested her arms on the table. Then, suddenly
bowing her head upon them, she
burst into tears.

The widow came to her.

Let me alone, Maud, let me alone !' she
supplicated between her sobs. ' I am so
miserable ; I wish that I were dead ! I
wish that I were dead !'

Ah ! if you were 1' thought the widow
in herself. But, as nothing else was too



be iron from the drl, she left her with a

s

shrug of her shoulders, and went into the
garden, and sat down under the shade of
the trees to think.

CHAPTER IX.

Maud's reflections were somewhat thus :

Plainly something had passed between
Lily and Mr. Warrington. It might be
very much her interest to know what it
was. But it seemed unlikely that she
would be able to learn.

The thing that disquieted her was that
Lily should thus unexpectedly have played
so bold and daring a stroke. Not that
Lily herself perceived that it was a bold,
daring stroke. But she, Maud, saw it.
In this game of cross-purposes, in which
everyone had hitherto been waiting for

some one else, the girl had, after all, been
the first to venture on a decisive move.
To Mrs. Gainsborough it appeared a very
clever move. And she felt anything but
easy about the consequences. Lily, in all
probability, would herself be made very
unhappy. And there is no calculating
what young, headstrong people will do
when they are unhappy. The man was
not indifferent to her, and he would not
like being cut. It might even open his
eyes to his real feelings for the girl. That
would be serious indeed. For Maud's own
quiet, waiting policy, this sort of thing was
fatal.

Still, so far as she could see, her policy
for the present must still be to wait. It
would not do for her to cut Mr. Warrington.
Certainly not. She had nothing to
gain by that.

I love the man ; how much more than
that chit does or could !' she soliloquised.
And yet he will feel her having cut him.
And if I had cut him — he would have
laughed at it. My God ! Why do we
love these men? I suppose because we
cannot help it.*

Her thoughts returned to Lily.

The girl had a sensitive, nervous nature.
She had of course no idea, yet, of what she
had done : of what cutting the man she
loved would cost her. Warrington might
possibly take the matter very coolly. In
that case Lily would feel his indifference a
good deal. It was not at all unlikely that
in the end she would be really ill.

Maud was right. In sternly cutting the
man she loved, Lily had shown courage
and spirit. But she had torn away a piece
of her own heart, and the rude operation

left behind it a cruel wound, one whose
horrible pain made her soul faint. Her
spirit had triumphed. She had not bent
her head to a humiliation a girl should be
ashamed to remember : but her heart bled
cruelly. And she was sunk in her own
estimation. She had undertaken so proud,
so fascinating a role : to reclaim a man
hostile to her sex, and to make him return
her love. And she had broken down.
The part she had wished to play had
turned out to be beyond her strength,
and her faith in herself was shaken to the
ground.

Twenty-four hours sufficed to show that
she was simply miserable.

She loved this man she had cast from
her, tenderly, nobly, devotedly. Only so
short a time since she had sunned herself
in the belief that that love of hers was not

VOL. II. M

altogether unreciprocated; that he had
begun to care for her ; and, ravished with
the thought, she had spread the wings of
her hopes into a very heaven of joy. And
now she had thrust him clean away with
the living love still warm in her heart. If
that is living love which is mortified by
the conviction that the person to whom
it is offered regards it with indifference,
ennui, disdain.

Her pride held her up for a little while.
But afterwards heart and spirit seemed to
give way together. The smile faded from
her lips, the elasticity from her step, the
light from her eyes : and a fixed melancholy
possessed itself of her.

For a day or two she struggled against
the depression, though with small success.
Then the struggle ceased. The melancholy
that had invaded her was more powerful

than herself, and she had no weapons to
combat it. Everything had lost interest
for her. A dull lethargy crept over her
whole life. The music of her laugh had
died out of the house long ago, and it
seemed that the very sound of her voice
was to follow it.

She was awfully fond of him,' said
Maud Gainsborough. 'Why on earth did
she cut him ?'

She was sorry for the girl. It was a
pitiful thing to see her so wretched, poor
child, and the widow was not without a
heart. In her fashion she was even kind.
She was very gentle with the girl, with
that superlative gentleness which women
can show one another when they choose.

Lily made no pretence of concealing
how miserable she was. Rather, the thing
that seemed to afford her some relief was

M 2

to confess her wretchedness, to come to
her cousin and to throw herself into her
arms with a broken cry of,

Oh, Maud ! I loved him so ! I loved
him so !'

And on these occasions the widow was
very patient with her, put her arms
around her and let her cry her fill, and
chided her never.

Then, as fortune would have it, on two
successive occasions when Lily went out
she met Warrington. She bore herself
admirably, with the most perfect ease and
external indifference, but each of these
rencontres cost her a stab of pain in her
heart, and after them she refused to go
any more outside the grounds.

I wish, with all my heart, the day was
here when she will leave for town,' said
Maud to herself.

She, too, had seen Warrington. That
was one afternoon when she was riding.
He was on foot. She bowed demonstratively,
and then drew up to speak to
him.

I hear, Mr. Warrington,' she said, a
little seriously, ' that my cousin has cut
you. I hope you will do me the honour
to believe me that I had nothing to do
with it.'

Certainly, Mrs. Gainsborough.'

I am very sorry that this should have
occurred, Mr. Warrington,' continued the
widow. 'I think I may tell you that.
Of course my cousin lives with me, but I
have no authority over her. So she must
do as she pleases. But I hope this Avill
not make any difference between you and
Mr. Eustace Warrington and myself.'

Certainly not,' said Warrington.

And so they parted.

*I don't think I committed myself to
anything outside the strictest politeness
said the widow to herself, as she rode on.
No, I am sure I did not. 1 wonder what
it was passed between those two. He
took all I said very coolly.'

Yes, he did take it very coolly. At
dinner he said to Eustace,

I met Mrs. Gainsborough this afternoon
and she bowed most cordially. She
also gave herself the trouble to explain
that she had nothing to do with Miss
Hard wick's having cut us.'

He took the cut very coolly too.
At least he never made any allusion toit.


Lily's distress soon told on her health.
With her nervous nature nothing else Alas
to be expected. By the end of the week

her cheeks had lost every morsel of
colour, her appetite had become capricious,
and she was complaining of being
always tired.

Maud Gainsborough became alarmed,
and called in Dr. Gregg. She confided to
him that there had been a little affaire de
colour which had terminated not very
happily, and that her cousin had been
fretting. The doctor looked very wise
and began to ask questions in his usual
fashion.

A little low-spirited, young lady, they
tell me. But now, let me see, your appetite
keeps good?'

No, Dr. Gregg, I have no appetite at
all.'

No ? Well, sometimes in these cases
the appetite does fail, sometimes it does
not. Well. So you are rather low-spirited.

And you have, I can see, a good deal of
headache.'

No, Dr. Gregg. No headache.'

No headache ? No, perhaps not. But
loss of appetite. I can see it all. A little
tonic. We shall soon set you up.'

What was the good of sending for him,
Maud ?' asked Lily, when he was gone.
You know what is the matter.'

How do you really feel, dear ?'

^ Tired.'

'Not ill? You look ill.'

'Do I?'

She got up and walked away. How
languidly ! Was this really the same girl
who a month ago had the step of a
gazelle ?

CHAPTER X.

People began to talk of low ill Miss
Hardwick looked.

Maud was taking every care she could
of her. She made her attend to what the
doctor said, and, so far as she could, kept
her from moping under the trees, strolling
about in the twilight, sitting at open windows
at night, and all the other foolish
things she wished to do. Lily was not
altogether tractable or manageable, and
would sometimes say, pettishly, ' I am
miserable : for heaven's sake let me

be ;' and then take her own way after
all.

One day, rising from the dinner-table,
she suddenly stopped, and, catching at the
table with one hand, laid the other on her
heart with a little cry of pain.

'My dear!' exclaimed Maud.

Oh, such a horrid pain in my heart,
Maud,' said the girl, presently, with an
expression of dismay.

But in a minute the pain had passed,
and she went with her cousin into the
drawing-room, and they had coffee as
usual.

Are you all right now, darling ? Your
heart does not hurt you any more ?' asked
Maud, presently.

No, thanks.'

But suddenly she slipped off the sofa on
which she was sitting, and, dropping on

her knees on the floor by Maud, buried
her head in her lap.

Oh, Maud ! I shall die,' she sobbed
passionately. ' I am so miserable. I am
so miserable. I thought I could bear it,,
but I cannot, Maud, I cannot! I love
him so. I love him so. He might have
loved me a little.' After a moment she
continued, ^ It is a shame to trouble you,
Maud, with my fooHsh tears. You have
always been so kind to me : so good to me.
But I don't know how to bear it, Maud.
Indeed I don't. If I had a father, or a
mother, a brother, or a sister, or anyone —
anyone to go to. But I have no one. I
am all — all alone. I have no one but you,
Maud, and my heart is breaking. It is
indeed, Maud. I love him so. I love
him so. You don't know, Maud, what he
was to me. It will kill me, I know it will.

I wish I were dead. He would be sorry,
perhaps, a little bit. I wish I were not
going away from you next week to town.'

Suddenly she drew herself up with a
sharp cry of pain.

Mrs. Gainsborough caught her in her
arms.

My darling !'

It is that pain at my heart again,'
gasped the girl, as soon as she could speak.
Oh, Maud, I shall die.'

Maud did her best to calm her, and
then sent her to bed. Happily there were
only five more days now before her departure
to town.

Left alone the widow sat herself down
to think.

That afternoon, returning home from a
walk in the woods, she had met Warrington.
He was strolling slowly, smoking a

pipe, with his hands in his pockets, when
she overtook him.

Please go on smoking, Mr. Warrington,'
she said, pleasantly, as they walked on
together. ' I am sure the society of a
woman would be too dearly purchased by
the loss of a pipe. Oh, you are too
gallant to admit it, of course. Still,
smoke, please.'

How handsome he was looking in a
rough brown suit, with knickerbockers !
How furiously she admired him ! What
she would have given to throw her arms
round his neck, and to kiss him !

Warrington had complied with her request,
and continued to smoke. And he
politely inquired after Miss Hardwick.

Just the same. She makes me anxious,'
said the widow.

How she wished she could ask him

ivhat he and Lily had quarrelled about ?

I am very glad to have met you, Mrs.
Gainsborough,' said Warrington. ' My
brother and I are the victims of a domestic
tragedy. And we were both thinking of
calling upon you to solicit your aid.'

I should have been most pleased to see
you.'

'Well, I'll tell you all about it,' said
Warrington, as he stuffed down the
tobacco in the bowl of his pipe.

He was quite at his ease. He always
was with Maud Gainsborough. Maud
was a widow. Widows did not pursue
men without money. Maud knew how
safe he felt, and reckoned a good deal on
that imprudent security of his to assist
her some day.

The domestic tragedy was only a rebellion
on the part of the cook. The

brothers, in consequence, wanted a new
cook, and Mrs. Gainsborough was fortunate
enough to be able to recommend them
one.

Meanwhile, they had come in their walk
to a point of the wood where the path
passed through an open spot on high
ground, and offered a view of a corner of
the woods and of a part of the property.

Warrington stopped, and called the
widow's attention to the view.

Did you ever see anything more miserable,
Mrs. Gainsborough,' he said; 'more
ragged, more stretched ? Look at those
dead trees. Look at those hedges. Look
at that wall. Look at the weediness of
the whole place. Look at that copse.
Enough to make one's eyes sore, is it not ?
And it is the same all over the estate.
Everywhere nothing but raggedness and

dilapidation ; the fruit of years of shameful
neglect.'

The widow stood by his side, following
with her eyes the direction of his hand ashe
pointed out one feature after another
of the dilapidated estates. How astonished
he would have been, if he could have
known how happy he was making her.

It will cost fortunes to set the place in
order,' he continued, gloomily, as he
turned to walk on.

Well, Mr. Warrington, spend the fortunes,'
said the widow, quietly.

To spend one must have,' observed
Warrington, phlegmatically ; ^ and unfortunately
I don't possess fortunes. I
suppose that I shall get the place straight
little by little, but I really do not know
that I should not have done better to
sell it, as I first intended. Still, then I

should have got nothing for it, and it is a
pretty place

Well, Mr. Warrington, you must marry
some charming heiress, you know,' suggested
the widow, laughing.

*H'm. And what do you think, Mrs.
Gainsborough, of a man who marries
a woman with more money than himself?'


Oh, I think, of course, that it is all a
question of love; that the money is nothing,'
replied Maud, sarcastically.

And she and Warrington laughed.

Still, you are too much a man of the
world, Mr. Warrington, not to concede the
sensitiveness of a manage de convenance
observed the widow.

I entirely agree with you,' answered
Warrington, readily. ' A real manage de
convenance is a very good thing. There

VOL. II. N

is no bosh about love in it. The man and
the woman each bring something to the
contract, the position of both is better
by what each has received from the
other ; and their common interests forma
solid bond of union. I think if I could
meet with the combination of a sufficient
fortune and a moderately insupportable
old maid, anxious to be married — so
that I could feel that the obligation was
reciprocal — I should think it almost my
duty to venture.'

The widow laughed and suggested,

Or what do you say to the daughter
of a wealthy butcher ?'

No : I must have a lady.'

Ah, then, I don't think you are quite
fair. You ask for two things, you see,
birth and money ; and you offer only one,

marriage.

Your remark, Mrs. Gainsborough, shall
have my serious consideration,' rejoined
Warrington, playfully.

By-and-by their roads parted, and they
said, ' Good-bye,' and Warrington went on
his way with his hands again in his
pockets, saying to himself,

Sensible woman, that widow.'
When Mrs. Gainsborough reached home
she found Dr. Gregg in the hall. He
was just leaving. He had called to see
Miss Hardwick.

How is Lily to-day ?' asked the widow.

Well — to be plain — the doctor evidently
did not know. He talked a good
deal, but he said nothing. Miss Hardwick
had been suffering again from a pain
in her heart. She was weak, a little low.
Perhaps there was a little weakness in the
action of the heart : there sometimes was

n2

in those cases. But sometimes there
was not. He would make a little change
in his prescriptions. Probably the change
of air and scene in town would set her up
again.

CHAPTER XL

It was the evening of the same day.

Lily had retired, and Maud sat alone in
the drawing-room thinking. Something
recalled to her mind Dr. Gregg's visit
of the afternoon, and then she began
to estimate what, in her judgment, was
the real worth of that great luminary of
medical science, when presently an odd
idea flitted through her brain.

What an opportunity a man such as
Dr. Gregg presented for the commission of
a great crime.'

Presently Maud had forgotten all about
Lily. Leaning back in her chair, she was
lost in imaginations, pursuing the strange
suggestion that had presented itself to her
fancy.

This stupid little quiet place, Lynham,
dull, gossiping, full of scandal, but simple
withal, and unsuspecting of anything out
of the common. The very place for the
execution of a deed of darkness. And
this idiot. Dr. Gregg : a man really incapable
of dealing with anything more
serious than a loose tooth, or a mild attack
of the measles ; with his consequential airs,
and his blabbing tongue, and his belief in
his own powers of intuition, and his vanity,
and his gross ignorance, the very accomplice
the doer of the deed of darkness
should have ! What a place and what an
assistant — say for an empoisoimeuse.

Maud Gainsborough began to elaborate.
Of course the empoisonneuse would comedown
from London and bring the victim
with her ; the husband, stepson, aunt, aged
guardian, or whosoever it might be. And
then she would take a house. Where ?
Not on the Marine Parade, nor in Church
Street. It is only in London that people,
who want to be hidden, live in the most
crowded places. Some little house j must outside
Lynham. That lone house near the
ruined mill. Or, better still. Cliff Cottage.
Cliff Cottage was more secluded than the
house by the old mill. And then the victim
could walk unseen in the long garden, and
the empoisonneuse could descend the steps
to the little lonely beach, and cool her
fevered brain with the fresh breeze from
the sea.

Then the victim would be ill, and Dr.

Gregg would be sent for at once. * Ah !
a little indigestion, I see. Ah, you need
not tell me. I know. You have a pain
in the pit of the stomach.' — ' No, not at
ali; — ' Not at all. No ? No pain in the
pit of the stomach. Ah, well, sometimes
in these cases there is not any pain in the
pit of the stomach. At other times there
is a good deal. Well, I see, a little indigestion,
but no pain.' — ' Oh, yes, doctor,
I have a great deal of pain.' — ' Oh, a great
deal of pain. Ah, I understand. Indigestion,
and a great deal of pain, but not in
the pit of the stomach. You see, my dear
sir,' (or ' madam,' according to the sex of
the victim), 'I know all about it. And
now, tell me, I am right, am I not, nausea
after meals ?' — ' No, doctor. No nausea.'
'No, no nausea? Well, sometimes in
these cases there is a great deal of nausea;

at other times, as in your case, you see,
none.' And so on. Meanwhile, the
patient somehow grows worse, slowly,
very slowly. ' Well, doctor, what do you
really think ?' — ' A rather protracted case.
But nothing out of the common, I assure
you. A derangement of the digestive
system. You must take care of him — or
her. I shall make a slight alteration in
the prescription. Possibly, in a day or
two, we may see an alteration for the
better.' By-and-by it is ' Tabes. Heart
slightly affected.' A little indisposition
to believe the doctor, and he becomes
obdurate on that last point. Would stake
his professional reputation on it. So now
it is ' severe affection of the heart ' and
tabes.' Patient grows worse. Patient
dies — and Dr. Gregg signs the certificate
without an instant's hesitation. That is

the man for your empoisonneuse — the man
who signs the certificate without hesitation.


Maud Gainsborough runs the story
through her head again. If the gods had
only given her the literary faculty ? She
fills in little points of detail, and makes
improvements and modifications. The
empoisonneuse is very clever. She has the
sagacity not to commence operations at
once, but to wait until her ' victim '
happens quite accidentally to be a little
out of health. There is nothing really
serious the matter when Dr. Gregg is
first called in ; no occasion for secrecy.
Everyone knows all about it, and so no
suspicion is ever aroused. Also she hasa
previous acquaintance with Dr. Gregg
and his peculiar characteristics. It was
the knowledge of them that made her

select Lynham for the scene of her crime.
She is a clever woman, too, a little chic
and knows how to flatter the doctor and to
turn him round with her little finger. Also
she cultivates the simple folk of Lynham.
She goes regularly to church, and is
respectful to the aristocracy, and sends
the rector flowers for his altar. And so
all the story over again up to the
denouement ' the doctor signs the certificate.'


And it might all be true ! Every word
of it. What an opportunity !

Suddenly Maud started from her idle
posture of repose and sat upright in her
chair.

Something had struck her that made
her turn pale. She bent forward, and,
with her elbow on her knees, rested her
cheek upon her hand.

My God ! But— if I had wanted todo
it !'

A light had broken upon her of an
unexpected sort. The empoisonneuse who
had remarked Dr. Gregg's weaknesses ;
who could turn him round with her little
finger ; the tenant of Cliff Cottage, a little
fashionable, well-established in the opinion
of the rector, and a subscriber to his
favourite charities ; it was — herself And
the victim, already in uncertain health,
suffering from some affection of the heart :
that was Lily. And if she, Maud Gainsborough,
chose — if she chose — hers the
horrible opportunity.

The doctor would sign the certificate.
And no one would ever suspect anything.


If I chose,' said Maud to herself, ^ I
could do it ; as easily as I can walk across

this room ; more easily than I shall
succeed in getting Lily cured of fretting
about Mr. Warrington, poor child !'

Again she ran over the whole story in
her mind. Only the dramatis personae
were real now, the earlier incidents
facts, and the whole sharply defined with
exact details of place, and circumstance,,
and date.

How horribly simple !' said the mow
to herself

And if it were really to happen ?

She had no intention of taking in hand
any such thing. But the imagination of
it fascinated her with a hideous fascination.

Fifteen thousand a-year !

Fifteen thousand a-year, and liberty !

Mrs. Gainsborough's thoughts became
again more connected. Mr. Warrington
was a man of the world. And a widow

with fifteen thousand a-year; a good-looking
woman, phlegmatic, a little cynical,
agreeable, provided with some commonsense,
ready for a marriage of convenience,
that widow might have Mr. Warrington ina
month. If she, Maud, had that fortune,
with the art that she would know how to
use, to make him believe her motives as
mercenary as his own, Frank Warrington
would marry her without twice thinking
of the matter.

And Maud said to herself, ' In some ten
months, seven perhaps, — wealthy — free —
and Frank Warrington's wife. Instead of
having to wait slow years and years to
draw him to me : and then both of us poor.
In some seven months his wife ! And so
easily.

She began to calculate. Could it really
be done in seven months ?

First — H'ln — : for that say two months.

Then to claim the property. There
were the documents to get somehow. They're
in Mr. Tanner's hands. Those once
obtained, the application to the Court of
Chancery and the substantiation of the
claim should be matters of but little time.
But there might be some delay necessary
to get the documents from Mr. Tanner
without awakening suspicions.

How to get them ? How to get them
quickly? How to get them without
causing dangerous surmises ?

If Lily only had them, how simple it
would all be ! Lily ought to have them.

Lily might get them.

Maud rose, and began pacing the
room.

Thus now. Lily is going to London.
And she, Maud, asks her before she leaves

to get Mr. Tanner to show her the family
papers : and to ask that Maud may have a
copy of any of them that referred to her
family. That was reasonable enough.

Lily returns with the papers. She is
not much better for her change of air.
And after her return to Lynham she hasa
relapse. And — ' and so on and so on.'
(That is how the young widow expresses
it to herself) Lily grows worse. And
Dr. Gregg says tabes and heart complaint.
And — well — Lily dies. And Dr. Gregg —
signs the certificate.

Afterwards she, Maud, looking over her
cousin's things, finds amongst them those
papers which her cousin had brought from
town. And reading those papers Maud
suddenly discovers to her unspeakable
surprise that she is entitled to fifteen thousand
a-year !

And the Court of Chancery gives it her.

The people at Lynham talk, and wonder
what she will do. But she only stays
where she is. Somehow she and Frank
Warrington manage to understand each
other : and she becomes his wife.

All quite possible : easy even ; hideously
easy.

If I did ?' says Maud to herself.

And she answers herself, 'The girl is
miserable, poor child ! She says she wishes
she were dead.'

Shall I ?'

A shudder ran through her whole body,
and a sudden sensation of cold struck her
heart. Of what is she thinking ? With a
quick movement of her head she looked
around her in dismay, as if some one
was watching her who could read her
thoughts.

VOL. II.

Unexpectedly a reflection in one of the
mirrors caught her attention. Her eyes
fixed themselves on it. Slowly she walked
towards it as if drawn by some supernatural
force.

A woman dressed like herself: handsome
yes — no — yes — a handsome fiend, and with
eyes of fire ! How pale and haggard !
What lips, livid as death !

Maud Gainsborough turned away with
a shudder. It was too horrible. Throwing
herself on the sofa, she buried her face
in the cushions, as if afraid of seeing some
other hideous reflection of herself.

She could not lie like that : she was
suffocating, she must have air !

The suffocation passed. She was better.
And she sat up on the sofa, wiping her
lips.

She had been making herself delirious

with her own imaginations. Bah ! it was
very stupid.

She began to fan herself. And then she
rose and rang the bell. She would not
risk letting the servant see her face, but
opened the window, and looked out at the
summer night. The cool air was refreshing.
And how quiet the place was ! When
the maid came, she said, without turning
round,

Jenny, bring me some cold water, and
the brandy.'

The girl came back with the things, and
Maud poured herself out a weak glass of
brandy and water, and sitting down in a
low easy-chair by the table, drank it at
her leisure.

When calmer, she ventured to think
again.

Now, what is all this that I have

o2

been frightening myself about ? — Why
nothing !'

Possibly Lily will die. Poor girl !
And, if so, I shall come into fifteen-thousand
a-year.'

And if Lily does not die : that is, in
the course of nature ?' That was the real
point.

Then I must choose between my duty
and my love. For it just depends on a
turn of my hand. Nothing else !'

I wonder how most women would
choose?'

At any rate, I have not to choose tonight.'


And with that she seemed satisfied.

But presently she rose.

It would be curious to try an experiment.
Not an experiment on Lily, but on
the doctor.

The widow proceeded to do a very
strange thing.

First she locked the door. At one end
of the drawing-room was a handsome,
rather old-fashioned escritoire, with a revolving
lid. It was a rather heavy piece
of furniture for a drawing-room, but she
had found it in the room when she came
to the cottage, and had let it remain there.
Its numerous drawers were very convenient
for storing a number of little things. She
went now to this escritoire, and opened it.
Out of a drawer which she unlocked she
took a key, and with that key unlocked
another drawer.

The drawer contained things not usually
to be found in a writing-desk.

A pair of apothecary's scales in a little
box : some measuring glasses : some phials
apparently empty : and a bottle of some

stuff like minute white scales, much resembling
powdered talc, and of the same
unbleached hue.

Maud Gainsborough looked at those
things, and said to herself, ' When I
brought all these things here, I meant to
destroy them. I wonder why I never did
so ?' And she thought of the evening
at Dr. Gregg's, when the Cambridge man
told the story of the stolen poison. That
man little thought that the thief was sitting
at the table.

Bringing the drawer with all its contents
to the table, she sat down. In one
of the bottles there was a little liquid.
She looked at it, and, seeming to mistrust
it, put it back again.

Taking one of the empty phials, she
carefully washed it, using some of the
water the maid had brought her. Next

with the scales she weighed, taking great
care, one grain of the scaly-looking stuff.
And next she measured an ounce of water.
She had no distilled water, but again used
that the raid had brought her. She did
it all very neatly ; like a surgeon's daughter
who had often watched, and sometimes
assisted, in such processes. And finally
she dissolved the white stuff in the ounce
of water and put it into the clean bottle.

That done, she quickly corked the
bottle, and then put everything away;
locked the drawer, and locked up the
key, too. Then, with the mixture she
had prepared in her hand, she came back
to the other end of the room.

She did not at once put it down,
but stood with the phial in her hand
thinking.

Her face was pale, but no longer haggard.

Its expression of horrible wickedness
had entirely passed away. For the
moment she was looking singularly handsome.
A dim light burned still in her
dark eyes, but her face was tender and
sad.

By-and-by, taking the phial with her,
she went upstairs.

CHAPTER XII.

Lily was worse, much worse. All the
previous day she had been unusually
lethargic, and, on rising, she had turned
suddenly giddy, and with difficulty saved
herself from a fall. All the day she had
been languid to a degree, disinclined even
to move, and quite unable to eat anything.


Dr. Gregg called in the afternoon. He
looked very wise, and asked a number
of questions. Whether anything had happened

on the previous day that had upset
Miss Hardwick ; whether she had fatigued
herself with over-exertion ; whether she
had possibly eaten anything that had disagreed
with her.

To all Lily replied in the negative. She
had on the previous day done nothing
different from what she did every day.
She had not been out of the house. She
had taken the medicine he prescribed and
attended strictly to his injunctions.

Still here was certainly a most serious
change for the worse in her condition.

There had been, during the last two
days, a change in the weather also which
had become very sultry. In the end
Dr. Gregg attributed his patient's extreme
prostration to the heat.

In these cases,' he asserted, ' any
sudden sultriness in the weather sometimes

has this effect : though not always.'


Lily denied that she had felt the
heat oppressive, but that only made Dr.
Gregg more decided in his opinion.

Mrs. Gainsborough followed the doctor
out of the drawing-room, in which
the consultation had taken place, and
invited him into the dining-room.

I am very anxious about my cousin,
Dr. Gregg,' she said, in a tone of well-acted
alarm. ' I trust that you will tell
me the truth about her. This sudden
collapse seems to me very ominous.
1 quite understand your not wishing to
say anything before my cousin that
might alarm her. But this giddiness on
first arising ; that is a bad symptom, is it
not?'

The doctor did not think so.

'At least, you see lie explained,
Miss Hardwick lias been for some
weeks in a rather low condition, and
there is a slight affection of the heart ;
and then, this sudden change in the
weather. These cases are sometimes
accompanied by a dizziness at first
awaking, though not always. The
heat has affected her more than she
supposes.'

You think that is all ? You think
the change in the weather could have this
effect ?'

'But, you see, my dear Mrs. Gainsborough,
that it has had this effect. Miss
Hardwick is in a delicate condition. You
must take care of her.'

I don't know what to think, I am
sure, Dr. Gregg,' said Maud, walking up
and down the room. 'You, of course.

know best, but I can hardly believe
that this sudden collapse is due merely
to the sultriness of the weather. If
so, my cousin must be in a much more
delicate state than I have supposed.'
The doctor offered no remark, and
she went on. ' You don't think it possible
— that — perhaps — something in your
prescription may have disagreed with
her. You altered it four days ago.'

Impossible, quite.'

And you really believe this due merely
to the heat ?'

I am sure of it.'

Maud had been all the time walking
up and down the room in an anxious,,
agitated way.

Suddenly she stopped.

There would be no danger in her
travelling ?'

Oh, let her go, by all means. The
change is the very thing she wants. If
the day after tomorrow she is no worse,
certainly send her.'

Maud accompanied the doctor to the
door.

As I expected,' she said to herself,
looking after his departing brougham.
Only I never thought of his putting it
down to the weather. Well, I have
tried my experiment, and with the result
I expected. And — why, there is
the end of it. Lily will be all right
the day after, tomorrow ; it soon passes
off.'

And the day after the morrow Lily was
a good deal better, and quite able to go
up to town.

The afternoon before she left, Mrs.
Gainsborough had, as yet, said nothing to

her about the family documents. But in
the evening she took counsel with herself
about what she was going to do.
Perhaps it would be more correct to say
what she was doing.

The meditations of that evening, when
she had been so much overcome by her
own imaginations, had not been forgotten.
On the contrary, they had been ever since
more or less present in her memory :
especially the discovery that it depended
on little else than an act of her own
volition whether her cousin should recover,
or she herself become the fortunate and
happy wife of the man she loved.

Which it was to be she had not yet
decided. There was no occasion at present
to decide.

But it was necessary to decide whether
she would now take any steps to obtain

copies of the family documents in the
possession of Mr. Tanner. Should she ask
Lily to procure copies of the documents she
required ?

And why on earth not ?

If she did not ; if she was so singularly
senseless as to let slip the opportunity that
now offered itself for obtaining documents
that might be some day of priceless importance
to her : what would that benefit
anyone ?

And yet some plaguey little voice did
murmur faintly,

But you are taking, one by one, every
preliminary step necessary for the accomplishment
of a horrible crime. You have
tested the effect of your drugs upon your
cousin. You have made proof of the
stupidity of the medical man. And now
you are about to possess yourself of the

documents you will want after the girl's
death.'

To which small timid voice, Maud replied
not timidly, but boldly,

What I have done, and am doing, may
happen to coincide with what I should do,
if I wished to proceed to a crime. But I
have at present no such intention. These
coincidences are merely coincidences. The
documents contain interesting records of
my family, of which I am the last representative.
That I should wish for copies
of them is only natural. That they might,
under other circumstances, be of service tome
is beside the question. As for the two
drops I gave Lily — that was a silly gratification
of a silly curiosity. It did no
harm, and now, at any rate, I am sending
Lily to town, which is the most hopeful
way of getting her really cured.'

VOL. II. p

And, having thus satisfied herself,
she said to Lily, on the morning of her
departure,

By the way, Lily, Mr. Tanner has in
his care all the memoranda of the family
history that your uncle made. Do you
remember his showing them to us girls,
and pointing out the connection of my
fathers family with yours? Whilst you
are in town, I wish you would do me a
favour. If your guardian would permit it,
I should very much like to have copies of
those of the memoranda which refer to my
family as well as to yours. Will you speak
to him about it ?'

With pleasure, Maud.'

Lily went up to town by the afternoon
express and arrived at Waterloo in time to
reach her guardian's house an hour before
dinner.

CHAPTER XIII.

There are people whose lives are an
absolute monotony. Nothing has happened
to disturb their tenor since a date almost
forgotten ; and it appears inconceivable
that anything should happen to disturb it
until death puts a period to both monotony
and life. Of this number were Mr. and
Mrs. Tanner. They had been married
more than thirty years, and nothing that
could be called an event, or that had made
the smallest difference in their condition,
had happened to them since the date of

p2

their marriage. They had never had any
children. They had lived all the time in
the same house, which they had no intention
of ever leaving ; a house of colourless
bricks, with round arches over the square
windows, in a terrace in Haddington.
Here every morning Mr. Tanner came
down at precisely the same minute to
breakfast : after breakfast departed at the
same minute for his bank : and was seen
no more until he returned home half-an-hour
before dinner. He dined, and after
dinner smoked two cigars, doing meanwhile
absolutely nothing ; and at half-past ten
went to bed. Every morning Mrs. Tanner
came down to breakfast five minutes earlier
than her husband, and after breakfast
returned to her room. At half-past eleven
she went out of the house somewhither,
and at half-an-hour before dinner returned

to it. After dinner she knitted, and at a
quarter-past ten went to lier room. Everyday
Mr. Tanner went to the same places,
to Lis bank, and to his club, and nowhere
else. And every day Mrs. Tanner went to
different places ; shopping first, always at
different shops, and afterwards sight-seeing.
There was not a sight to be seen in London,
provided it was to be seen in the daytime,
that she missed. A week afterwards
she had no more recollection of it than
Mr. Tanner, who had not seen it at all ;
and could no more have told what shows
she had seen, nor at what shops she had
purchased than he could. And that was
the whole of their existence. The only
difference was on Sundays and Bank-holidays,
and when they went to the seaside,
in the autumn. On Sundays Mr.
Tanner went to church and to his club.

instead of to his club and the bank. And
Mrs. Tanner went to different churches
instead of to different sights. On Bank-holidays
Mr. Tanner spent all the day at
his club, but Mrs. Tanner still went to see
whatever there was to be seen. And when
they went to the sea-side in the autumn
they went always to the same lodgings at
Hastings in which they had spent their
honeymoon. One day only in the month
Mrs. Tanner was ' at home,' and sacrificed
her inclinations to her visitors. In the
course of years the profound monotony
of their lives impressed itself upon
everything about them, their house, their
manner of thinking and speaking, and their
plain, perfectly meaningless features, so
that nothing could be conceived more dull,
more stolid, more insipid than themselves
and the atmosphere of everything that surrounded

them. And yet these were excellent
people, kindly, charitable, sterling
souls, the husband the personification of
uprightness, and the wife of motherly
goodness.

Such were the people to whose charge
Lily Hardwick was committed for the next
few weeks.

Some time had passed since Mr. Tanner
and his wife had last seen her, and they
found her much altered and not a little
improved, grown from a lanky, rather
troublesome hoyden into a tall, ladylike,
and charmingly pretty girl. But they
were shocked and startled to see how
delicate and ailing the girl looked ; so pale
and thin and fragile, with a faint blue
shade under her large eyes, whose lids
seemed to confess secret tears. When,
after the fatigues of her journey might

well be supposed to be worn off, sbe was
no less pale and weary than on the evening
of her arrival, they began to be
alarmed, and Mrs. Tanner inquired, with
a good deal of circumstance, whether
Lynham and the sea-air agreed with Lily ?
whether she was happy at Cliff Cottage ?
and whether Mrs. Gainsborough was
kind? To all of which Lily replied in
the affirmative. Finally Mrs. Tanner
asked whether she had been for any time
past in declining health.

I thought Cousin Maud had written
and told you all about it,' answered Lily,
to this last question, rather reservedly and
with a little effort.

'Well, my dear, yes,' answered Mrs.
Tanner. 'But I don't like, dear, to see
you so pale and delicate.'

To which Lily said nothing.

Are you very unhappy, dear ?' said
the good-hearted woman, coming close to
her and coaxing her with her arms.

Oh, yes ! Mrs. Tanner.' And, laying
down her head on the good dame's fat
shoulder, she fairly burst into tears.

Mrs. Tanner comforted her as well as
she could, and Lily apologised for being a
baby. But as the days passed and she
grew no brighter, though Mrs. Tanner
took her about and did her best to amuse
her, the good woman and her husband
held a consultation.

'The poor girl is more unhappy than she
has any right to be, Tom,' said Mrs.
Tanner. ' It seems to me that she is
breaking her heart about this young man,
and fretting herself into a regular decline.
I think I should like to take her to see
a physician.'

So Lily was taken to see a certain
celebrated physician.

It was necessary first to give the physician
a few hints. That Mrs. Tanner did
in her plain, motherly way, and then Lily
herself was introduced. The physician
asked a good many questions, and seemed
to regard the case more seriously than
Dr. Gregg had done. Especially he was
unable to understand the sudden loss
of strength and dizziness at first awaking
produced by the change in the weather.
He questioned Lily about that at considerable
length. Also he examined her
heart, and assured her that that organ
was perfectly sound. Finally he gave hera
little simple advice, and wrote her a
prescription. After she was gone he said
to Mrs. Tanner,

There is nothing the matter at present,

but she is nervous and overwrought. Let
her have as much variety and amusement
as you can without fatiguing her. If she
should again complain of dizziness in the
morning I should advise you at once to
take advice about it. But I don't think
that you have any reason to be anxious.
A little time and change of scene should
set her up.'

I'm sure I am very glad I took her,
Tom,' said Mrs. Tanner to her husband.
It's a Weight oiF my mind well worth the
money. I'd never have forgiven myself if
anything had happened to John Hardwick's
girl through our neglect.'

As for the change of scene and amusement
the physician had recommended, that
was no doubt excellent advice, but, with
the best will in the world to follow it, Mrs.
Tanner, dear soul, had only elementary

ideas of how to entertain a young girl,
and to keep her from brooding over her
heart troubles. All day she honestly
dragged Lily about from one sight to
another, and then, in the evening, in the
silence of the dull drawing-room, Lily,
tired to death with what she had seen,
was at liberty to be as miserable and disconsolate
as she chose.

She wrote to her cousin, telling her at
some length of the visit to the physician.
And Maud Gainsborough said to herself,
Ah, if we had the physician here at Lynn
that would be very dangerous. However,
I am glad that Lily has been to
see him. What he has said confirms Dr.
Gregg's opinion. I shall take care to make
that known.'

And she did so. The next time she saw
the rector's wife, she said,

*My cousin is still in town with lier
guardian. He has taken her to see a
celebrated physician; and he says just
the same as Dr. Gregg ; that there is nothing
actually wrong with Lily at present,
but that she is in a delicate, rather critical
state of health. I am very glad to have
Dr. Gregg's opinion confirmed. I think
Dr. Gregg is a very clever man.'

Maud Gainsborough was spending a
good deal of her time alone. And lately
she had taken to often going down the
steps to the little secluded beach to have
a solitary stroll on the sands. She had
forgotten that she had pictured her empoisonneuse
doing that. She did it herself
because her brain grew so heated, and the
sea-breeze cooled it.

Meanwhile, Lily proffered the request
with which her cousin had entrusted her

for a copy of the family papers. Mr.
Tanner assented at once, as to a natural
and reasonable wish of Mrs. Gainsborough's.
He himself showed Lily the old Bible and
all the manuscripts, and was at some
trouble to assist her to understand them ;
and he promised her that, before she left,
he would have copies of all made for herby
a competent person, that she might
take them back with her as a present to
her cousin.

Mrs. Gainsborough had come to stand
very high both in his estimation and in
that of Mrs. Tanner ; partly on account
of the sincere affection with which Lily
always spoke of her; and more still for
the sensible way in which she had behaved
about this unlucky little love-affair of
Miss Lily's.

One day at dinner it happened that

Lily, speaking of her cousin, let drop
something about Anthony Gainsborough.

Maud's hateful brother-inlaw she
called him, and added, ' That horrid
man !'

Do you mean Mr. Anthony Gainsborough?'
said Mr. Tanner, rather surprised.
' Do you know him ?'

Not Lily : nor had she any wish to know
him, 'the wretch.*

Quoth Mrs. Tanner, ' I don't think that
you would speak of him in that tone, my
dear, if you knew him.'

Did Mr. Tanner know him?' asked Lily.

Both Mr. and Mrs. Tanner had known
him for many years, and they respected
him very much. He was a good man,
with a kind, good heart.

*He was very cruel to Maud,' remarked
Lily.

Mr. and Mrs. Tanner did not think that
possible.

I think, my dear, you must be making
some mistake,' said Mrs. Tanner, a little
in the tone of a rebuke.

Lily felt sure that she was making no
mistake. However, she had better manners
than to dispute with her hostess.
But what had been said acted as a
stimulant to her curiosity. She would
have liked very much to have asked to be
introduced to Mr. Anthony Gainsborough,
and to have an opportunity given her to
judge for herself of a man about whom
she had heard opinions so strongly and so
diametrically opposed.

After all, what she was wishing for
came about of itself.

Mrs. Tanner's 'at home' day arrived,
and, for once, instead of going sightseeing,

Lily and her hostess remained
at home to receive visitors. Several
came and went, and then Lily was suddenly
surprised to hear the servant announce,


^ Miss Chesterfield and Miss Essie
Chesterfield.'

And Violet and Essie came into the
room.

For one minute Lily hardly knew
whether she was to credit her senses.
The next a host of questions crowded her
brain. Were these really the Misses
Chesterfield? Was that taller girl who
entered first the cousin with whom Mr.
Warrington had fallen so much in love ?
who had treated him so shamefully ?
And how on earth came they to be
here ?

The two had shaken hands with Mrs.

VOL. II. Q

Tanner, and Lily was introduced. Violet
sat down to talk to Mrs. Tanner, Essie
attached herself to Lily, and began to chat
about the weather.

Conversation with Mrs. Tanner was
fairly hard work. Lily had already
observed that in the case of other visitors.
After a very few minutes there came a
pause. Violet used it to say,

'And, Mrs. Tanner, Uncle Tony told
us that we were to apologise to you for
his not having come to-day to see you
himself. He was very sorry not to be
able to come, because he has not seen you
for so long. But he was detained by
business.'

Lily, talking to Essie, overheard the
speech. Then these really were the Misses
Chesterfield.

Well, she would not have thought it.

Surreptitiously she stole searching glances
at the sisters' faces, trying to read
something more of their characters than
at first appeared. She did not succeed in
deciphering much. Violet was the handsomer,
a quiet, rather reserved girl : Essie
the prettier.

And have you been yachting with
your uncle lately ?' asked Mrs. Tanner.

Not since we returned from the
Mediterranean,' replied Violet. ' Uncle
Tony's yacht is laid up at present. But
we hope to go for another cruise early in
the autumn. Uncle Tony has his steam-launch,
and we make the most delightful
little voyages on the river.'

And Essie proposed,

And Uncle Tony would be so pleased
if you and Mr. Tanner would some day
come with us, Mrs. Tanner. Perhaps

q2

you could come some evening. It is so
beautiful on the river in the evenings.
And ' — turning to Lily — ' perhaps Miss
Hardwick would come too.'

Mrs. Tanner declined for Mr. Tanner
and herself They never went on the
water. But she added, that she made
no doubt that a cruise on the river would
be a treat to Lily, who assented on the
spot.

So before the girls left it was arranged
that she should some day go with
them.

After they were gone Mrs. Tanner
said,

And you will be able to judge for yourself
about Mr. Gainsborough.'

That was just what Lily was thinking.

The promised invitation soon came.
Mrs. Tanner drove Lily to Twickenham

after luncheon, and left her in charge of
the girls and of a friend who was going
with them, who promised to see Lily safely
home in the evening, and then they all
walked together to the river, and Lily was
introduced to Anthony Gainsborough.

She was a good deal surprised by his
personal appearance, his frank, open, kindhearted
face, and his good-natured manner.
And she certainly could not say that his
behaviour to herself was anything but
most kind. His nieces evidently worshipped
him, and appeared to have every
reason for doing so. Indeed, Lily could
not conceal from herself that there was
something about the man, particularly' in
his speech, and his good-natured way of
regarding things, that would make it
natural for people to be attracted to him.
And certainly he did not appear to be the

sort of man who could be cruel to anyone.
Still, Lily knew. And she was not disposed
to let a mere first impression, and words,
and manners weigh with her more than
solid facts. Incredible as it might seem,
this was the man who had treated her
cousin Maud shamefully, and who did all
in his power to make her life miserable ;
and Lily listened to every word he spoke,
and studied every movement of his face,
with a strange curiosity to understand
this apparently kind and really heartless
man.

However, she spent a delightful evening.
Anthony Gainsborough took the greatest
care of her, and gave himself a good deal
of trouble to amuse her and to point out
to her every object of interest by the riverside.
He seemed to her to know everything,
to have been everywhere, and to

have the knack of making everything
that he said entertaining. Also, to her
great surprise, he inquired after Mrs. Gainsborough.


I left her very well, thank you,' replied
Lily, feeling very indignant, and Ravishing
that she could add, ' Why are you so unjust
and tyrannical with my cousin ?'

I was down at Lynham about a fortnight
ago ; but you were not at home.
Of course your cousin told you I had
called.'

No,' said Lily, a little surprised, and
wondering in herself what he had called
for, and why Maud had said nothing about
it.

Was he, she speculated, going to bully
Maud in some new way?

But when she at last bade him * good-bye,'
and thanked him for the delightful evening

lie had spent, there was a spell in his voice
and a cordial kindness in the shake of his
big, strong hand that Lily found irresistible
in spite of her prejudices ; so that she
was very pleased when he said,

I am glad that you have been amused.
You must come with us again, Miss Hardwick.'


Oh, yes, do,' said Essie.

• I shall be most happy to come ; if you
will be so kind as to have me,' replied
Lily.

When Lily reached home, she was looking
brighter than she had done any day
since she reached town. It was strange,
for Anthony Gainsborough and his nieces
were about the last persons in whose
society Lily Hardwick would have supposed
that she could find any pleasure.
But we are no more masters of our impressions

than of our affections, and somehow,
whilst she had been with these
people, she had felt that there is, after all,
sunshine in the world : that things which
are amiss may come right in the end ; and
that altogether to despair is weakness.
And she looked forward with pleasure to
meeting; her new friends attain.

That, and Mrs. Tanner's gratification at
the bright humour in which she had come
home, and an inclination on Essie Chesterfield's
part to cultivate a little friendship
with Miss Hardwick, resulted soon in
another invitation sent and accepted : and
after this second followed several more.
And, as it appeared that something at last
had been discovered that was really a
diversion for Lily, Mrs. Tanner schemed
for her to see as much as possible of the
Chesterfield girls, and of their uncle.

About the latter Lily changed her
opinion.

But only by degrees. As long as she
could, she clung to her prejudices. But
her natural honesty would not permit her
to hold out against facts ; and at last
she admitted frankly that her bias against
the man had been unjust. After that
she began to believe that her cousin
must have fallen into some mistake.
For certainly there was a misunderstanding
somewhere. It was impossible that
Anthony Gainsborough should have behaved
as Maud represented.

She had written nothing to Maud about
her new friends. She had purposely
abstained from so doing when she first
made their acquaintance, because she wished
to take time to form her own opinions.
Afterwards, when she was about to say

something, she found some awkwardness
in not having named them before. Finally,
she put oiF mentioning them until her
return to Lynham.

CHAPTER XIV.

That was about the end of July. She
was certainly stronger than when she came
up to town. The mere change of scene
had not been without effect. Possibly
even her somewhat fatiguing daily sightseeing
expeditions with Mrs. Tanner had
done something towards distracting her
thoughts ; and the kindness of her guardian
and his wife had undoubtedly cheered
her : whilst the hours spent on the river

and with the Chesterfield girls had been
productive of a great deal of good. But
for all that she had gained more morally
than physically. Her face was brighter and
happier, but she was still pale and thin and
her appetite was poor. And there were
still hours when she was unhappy enough.
She told Maud that she should not forget
Frank Warrington, and she had not forgotten
him. On the morning of her
departure from London, she was far from
looking her brightest. She could not
without a little regret part from the kind
hearts she was leaving.

However Maud, who met her at the
railway-station, was at once struck with
the marked improvement in her appearance,
and said to herself, ' I had no idea
she would come back looking so much
better

A feeling of uneasiness came over her ; a
misgiving that the ' opportunity ' might
have passed. All this time that her cousin
had been in London, Maud Gainsborough
had not been thinking of nothing ; and the
^ opportunity ' had become a far more
definite idea to her than when Lily
left.

As for Lily, she thought the welcome
the widow gave her a little awkward and
strange.

She had brought down with her the
copies of the family papers which Maud
desired to possess. Little suspecting that
she was presenting her own death-warrant,
she, after dinner, brought them
into the drawing-room, and gave them
to Maud with a little speech, saying
how kind Mr. Tanner had been in having
them copied properly by some competent

person, for which he had insisted on
paying.

So you ought to thank him for them,
not me, Maud,' she concluded, putting the
papers into her cousin's hands : ' I only
asked for them.'

Maud had already opened the packet,
and the first thing that caught her eyes
was a formally attested certificate of the
agreement of the copies with the original.
But that was more even than she had
hoped for !

She had here evidence in her hands
hardly second to the documents themselves.
Her pulse quickened with excitement,
and a sudden orlow of eagerness
brightened her features.

Putting down the papers, she caught
Lily in her arms.

Oh, but you darling ! This is more

than I asked for,' she exclaimed, kissing
the girl effusively. ' And it is to you that
I owe them, dear. If you had not asked
for them I should not have had them.
But I will write to Mr. Tanner too.'

There was nothing constrained or
artificial about her thanks, as there had
been in her welcome. Her pleasure at
receiving these documents was most
sincere.

Maud sat down at the table on which
the lamp stood, and, putting her coffee by
her side, began to peruse the papers.
Here and there she recognised names and
particulars, pointed out to her by Lily's
uncle on that dimly-remembered evening
of her school-girl days. How many things
had happened since then ! The family
tree, with the dates of births, marriages,
and deaths, accompanied by many references

to old registers and deeds, and wills
and monuments, was made out much more
fully and clearly than she, resting upon
her own recollections, had supposed.
Absorbed in her papers, an accurate study
of which she was nevertheless postponing
for another time, she hardly noticed Lily.
Only now and then she said, 'Dear me,
these are very interesting;' or, 'My dear,
I don't know how I am to thank you
enough.'

To which Lily would reply, ' I am very
glad that you are so pleased with them,
dear.'

And once she asked, ' Did Mr. Tanner
show you the papers ?'

Some of them. I am afraid that I did
not altogether understand them.'

So the evening passed almost in silence,
very quietly.

VOL. II. R

Lily rose at last and said,

I think I am tired, Maud. ' I'll ^o to
bed.'

I am afraid that I have been awfully
unsociable, dear, to be absorbed like this
in these papers, and on the first evening
of your return, too,' said the widow,
frankly looking up with a smile at the
girl standing over her chair. ' But you
will forgive me, won't you? What you
have brought is what I have been wishing
for for years.'

There is nothing to forgive, Maud. It
is pleasant to be at home again; to spend
an evening again as we have spent so
many.'

Maud had risen, and stood with her
hands on the girl's shoulders, looking
straight into her eyes.

You look tired, dear,' she said. * Tomorrow

we will have a long talk about
everything. You must have so much to
tell me, I am sure. Good-night, darling.'
She put her arms round the girl and
kissed her tenderly. ' I hope you are
not sorry to come back to me, after all
your gaiety.'

I was sorry to leave town. But now
that 1 have got home again I am glad,'
said the girl, frankly.

Yes. After all, she was glad to be once
more at home, to be with Maud in the
little cottage, and to have returned to
her own quiet life. And when she got
upstairs into her own room, and sat down
on her favourite window-seat, at the little
window looking out over the long garden
and the trees, and the distant sea, grey
in the dim moonlight, a gentle spell fell
upon her senses, the weird of the old

r2

life, half restful, half melancholy, but
very, very dear. There had been an
unreality in her life in town, an artificial
restlessness that had made her all the
time not quite herself. But now again
everything was real, the little cottage,
and the shadowed garden, and the
moaning sea, and the quiet stillness of
the country night ; and she was herself
again.

Downstairs, Maud had abruptly thrust
the papers away from her, all in a
heap : and, after that, had risen from
the lamp-lit table, and gone to the
window, and sat down with her back
to the light in the chair Lily had
left.

And now ?' she said to herself.

It was time to come to a decision.

Yes : to-night : at once.

Lily had come back from town distinctly
better. The change had done her
good. In a day or two Dr. Gregg would
call. Indeed, she had asked him to do
so. If he found Lily so much better,
and then, a fortnight hence, all the
old symptoms made their re-appearance,
would that not arouse the suspicions
even of the most unsuspicious ? It ought
to do so. Whereas, if the doctor found
Lily very much the same as before she
left, — a little brighter, perhaps, but not
really any better ; then he would, without
doubt, say,

Well, Mrs. Gainsborough, you see,
sometimes in these cases change of air is
beneficial, and at other times not.'

It seems, then, that it must begin
now or never,' soliloquised Mrs. Gainsborough.


Happily there had been hardly anyone
at the station. It might be said that no
one had yet seen Lily.

That was opportune, too. In fact, not
to begin now was to let slip the last
opportunity.

Only I don't want to begin now,'
meditated Mrs. Gainsborough. ' Not the
very moment that the poor child has come
home.'

And she thought of the oriel with real
pity.

After which she fell back into long meditations
about herself

She was not a woman of action. That
was the fact. Reveries, imaginations,
retrospection, and speculations, those
were her element, not action. When it
came to action, she always wanted a little
more time to think. That was a part of

her character. There was only one way
in which she could act, and that was by
acting at once.

Who was it said, 'What you are loth
to do, do at once ' ? The man who
coined that maxim must have been a
dreamer like herself.

It was an excellent maxim for a
dreamer, ' What you are loth to do, doat
once.'

At last she arrived at a decision.

I'll give Lily one drop tomorrow and
on the next day. There will be nothing
in that. The doctor will find her much
as he expected to find her, and that will
please him. Afterwards, if this must be
done, I shall have taken precautions
against arousing suspicions, and, if not,
things will take their course just as if I
had done nothing.'

Morning seldom brings us back the
impressions with which we fell asleep,
and, when Lily awoke early, it was with
a consciousness of depression. Somehow
the charm of the return home was gone,
and the keen regret for the kind hearts
left in London had come back. So Lily
was out of spirits.

Maud came in about eight, bringing
her a morning cup of tea. She found
her looking less bright than on the previous
day.

And Lily drank the tea.

All the day Maud watched her closely.
The drug she was using was of a horrible
virulence, and she knew that she
must observe the exact effect of every
dose.

Lily's appetite was very poor. She
apologized for it, saying that it had been

often so in town. Towards evening she
appeared a little languid. And so ended
the first day.

CHAPTER XV.

The next day Lily's languor was more
distinctly marked. She had no appetite
at all, and a disinclination to do
anything. She had talked of a ride, but
the ride was put off, and she only strolled
for a little while in the garden. In the
evening she complained of a slight headache.


The doctor called in the afternoon, and
remarked on the fact that the change of

air appeared to have done Miss Hardwick
little real good, much in the terms
Maud Gainsborough had anticipated. He
agreed entirely with the opinions expressed
by the London physician, excepting
only about Miss Hardwick's heart.
He was convinced that the heart was
slightly affected — very slightly. There
was no occasion for any alarm. A
little care necessary, that was all. So
the doctor's visit was over. However,
Lily nevertheless had yet another drop
out of the widow's phial the next
morning.

And the next day, and the next.

On one of these evenings Lily, beginning
with ' By the way, Maud, I have a
surprise for you. I have not yet told
you of all the people I met in town,'
related her acquaintance with the Chesterfield

girls and with Anthony Gainsborough.

Maud said easily,

Oh, yes, I know that the Tanners
know them.'

She evinced a good deal of curiosity
regarding: Violet Chesterfield, and asked
Lily several questions about her. Respecting
Anthony Gainsborough she said very
little.

You liked him ? Very likely, my
dear,' she remarked. ' Permit me only
to observe that you don't know him as
well as I do. But, dear, by all means
have your own opinion about your own
friends.'

She was showing herself exceedingly
kind ; devoting herself to Lily with unremitting
attention, remaining with her all
day long, and doing her utmost to cheer
and to amuse her ; seemingly having just

at present no thought of anything besides
the girl and her recovery.

If no one else can cheer you up, and
endeavour to make you well, you must
see whether I cannot, darling,' she said,
affectionately.

You are awfully kind, Maud,' answered
Lily.

Lily had been home about a week when
Mrs. Gainsborough one morning had to go
into Lynham to do some shopping. She
invited Lily to go with her, but the latter
declined.

Maud went alone, dispatched her business
as fast as she could, and returned
home at once.

On entering the drawing-room, she found
Lily on the floor, with her face buried on
the seat of a chair, crying.

My dear child !' she exclaimed,

ilyin^ to her. ' What has happened ?'
Nothing, Maud. I am a baby. I don't
know why I am crying. Only after you
went out I felt so miserable. I wanted to
cry so, I could not help it. And so I
sat down here, and cried. That is all.'
But presently she went on : 'I was so
glad to come home, to come back to you,
Maud. And now, I don't seem to be glad
about anything. I don't know why it is,
but I am miserable, utterly miserable. It
seems awfully ungrateful, I know, dear,
when you are so kind. But I am not ungrateful,
dear,' — Maud had knelt down
beside her, and, putting her arms round
the young widow's neck, Lily laid her
pretty head on her bosom and reiterated —
I am not ungrateful, dear. I love you,
Maud, 1 love you. I love you with all
my heart !'

Maud Gainsborough was as pale as
marble.

As quickly as she could she persuaded
the girl to get up, and to rest a little on
the sofa : and then, saying that she would
take her things off and be back in a
minute, she ran to her room, and locked
the door.

I cannot go on with it. I cannot ! It
is too horrible,' she cried to herself, wringing
her hands. ' It seemed all so simple.
But I cannot do it. I haven't the
courage. I can't do it. I must give it
up.'

The next day she brought Lily her
morning cup of tea, as usual. But this
morning there was no drop in it out of the
phial.

I am throwing away fifteen thousand
a-year, 1 know,' said Maud to herself as she

left the room. ' But I haven't the nerve
to go through with it.'

The drug she was using was one
whose effect is very transient. In two
or three days Lily though still pale
had begun to recover her appetite,
and to emerge from her languor and
despondency.

But Mrs. Gainsborough thought with a
good deal of chagrin of her lost fortune.
She had given up fifteen thousand a-year
very precipitately.

All this time Lily had seen nothing of
Warrington. She had been out but seldom,
and their paths had not happened to cross.
But a day or two afterwards she met him
on the parade.

She had been sitting on the sands with
Maud, and had left her to take a turn
with the rector's wife and her daughters.

Just as they drew near the end of
the parade, warrington came out of the
London Hotel through the gardens, and
then, turning sharply, came right upon
them.

If he had seen them, he might, very
possibly, have avoided the encounter.

Had the weeks which had elapsed since
Lily had last seen him done anything at
all towards effacing his image from her
heart ? Lily could not herself have said.
But certain it is, that, now that she suddenly
found herself, in an unexpected moment,
face to face with this man, all the love she
had for him welled up in her heart in an
instant.

She was aware that she had changed
colour, and was probably deadly pale.
However, she had enough self-possession
to turn a little aside, and to leave the

VOL. II. S

rector's wife and daughters to speak to
him, and herself took a few steps that
brought her to the edge of the parade
overlooking the sands, and there waited
standing with her back turned to Warrington
and her friends. She did not listen,
but she could hear every word of their
conversation ; a commonplace conversation
about things of no interest. How the
man's voice thrilled her ! How vividly
she could, in imagination, see every expression
of his handsome, manly face !
And how her heart, disobedient to her
judgment, yearned, and yearned, and
yearned towards him !

Warrington, talking to the rector's wife,
stole a glance at her where she stood alone
by the edge of the parade. The light
breeze toyed with her ribbons and laces,
and her sunshade made a delicate shade

about her head and shoulders. He could
only see her quarter face, but he noticed
how thin she had grown and how pale.
There was a little droop in the corner of
her lips too and the lids fell over her eyes,
as if they were weary. ' The girl looks ill
and unhappy. Little better for her
change,' thought Warrington, listening to
what the rector's Avise was saying about
the Sunday-school children having a treat
in one of the fields at Lynhurst. Presently
he stole a second glance at the troubled
lips and heavy eyelids, and thought to himself,
' Yes, ill and unhappy : there is no
doubt about it'

The rector's wife said, ' good-bye,' and
he went on his way and Lily rejoined
her friends. Then they, too, left the
parade and she returned to Maud on the
sands.

s2

Well ?' asked Maud, looking up from
her book.

'We met Mr. Warrington,' said Lily,
half absently.

Resting her cheek on her hand, she sat
silent, wistfully regarding the sea. But
presently a nervous movement of hers
made Maud look round quickly.

Are you crying, dear ?' she asked.

Crying? No. What is the use of
crying. Besides, I have made up
my mind to cry no more about what
can't be helped. But I wish that I was
dead.'

Yes,' she ran on, in a cold, dogged
way, ' I wish that I was dead. What
is the good of living on and on,
without a bit of happiness, or a bit of
hope ? He will never love me, and I shall
never cease to love him. I love him today

just the same as I loved him when
you sent me to town, just the same as (if I
live so long) I shall love him fifty years
hence — dearly, passionately. And, to be
so miserable as I am for long years and
years, is it worth living for ? I don't
think it is. If anyone were any the
better, I would not so much mind. But
to be just merely wretched, to have the
heartache, and to know it is to go on forever
and ever and ever, and that all the
pain is mere useless pain — that is wretchedness
not worth enduring. It is wrong to
kill oneself, or I would do it. I don't
believe that you, Maud, have ever loved
as I love that man. So of course you
can't understand.'

After which, she would say no more on
the subject.

But all the rest of the day she was

taciturn and low-spirited, and the same on
the morrow.

My dear, I think you might have
some spirit,' remarked Maud. ' The man
does not care for you. It is rather
weak, is it not, to be so abjectly attached
to him. If a man did not care forme,
I should soon cure myself of liking
him.'

A pretty audacious statement, seeing
that the widow knew that AVarrington
did not care a pin for her, and was
herself over head and ears in love with
him.

I don't want to cure myself of loving
him,' retorted Lily, rather sharply. ' I am
proud of loving him. I would rather love
him, and be miserable all the days of my
life, than love any other man and be
happy.'

Very well, dear,' said the widow.

But she began to lose patience. To
herself she said, ' What a fool that girl
is making of herself. It is really wonderful,
only it is also very stupid. The man
is in love with her. Only she has neither
the sense to see it, nor the ingenuity to
make him declare himself. And so she
goes about the place sighing. Such an
existence is quite a misfortune.'

Really her hasty determination not to
accelerate the demise of her unfortunate
cousin began to seem to deserve serious reconsideration.
At a pinch her courage had
failed her, and she had at once thrown up
her enterprise ; without much reflection
about what she was doing. But on second
thoughts, she believed she had been too
precipitate. The case had so many
different aspects. And they ought all to

be taken carefully into consideration oneby
one.

Of course, there was that fifteen thousand
a year, between which and herself
stood nothing but this girl's frail life.
Fifteen thousand a-year by right of discovery
Maud's own. But about that she
would not think. She was not a miserable
wretch that would poison a helpless girl for
her money. But there were other and
graver points to be considered. The girl
was miserable. So miserable that she openly
asserted that she wished herself dead. So
miserable that it might be an act of mercy
to let her have her wish. She was ill, too.
The disappointment with which she had
met was so enormously beyond her power
to support it, that there seemed to be
every probability of her health entirely
breaking down, of her slowly wasting, and

sinking into an early grave. And what
a horrible, slow torture it would be !
To shorten such suffering would be a
charity.

It was a mere question of euthanasia.
And seriously, Mrs. Gainsborough approved
of the theory of an euthanasia. If she
were herself dying miserably, of some
horrible, protracted torment, she would be
exceedingly grateful to anyone who would
mercifully give her her quietus, and put
her out of her pain. And so too, if she
could foresee all, very probably, would
Lily.

There were also other considerations of
an entirely different stamp. And these
Maud had certainly rather forgotten when
she faltered in her purpose. Poor, handsome
Frank Warrington, and his encumbered
estates ; and the use the money

would be to him. And that passionate
love which Maud bore him. That love
which was not fain to wait for long, long
years.

Lily had said, ' I don't believe that you
have ever loved as I do.' Ah, much she
knew ! A poor, feeble passion, hers, put
side by side with Maud's. And if Maud
chose to make her know it? It was a sort
of challenge that Lily had thrown her.
Suppose she accepted the challenge ?
Lily might sigh for the man, fret for him,
pine for him. Suppose she, Maud, were
to commit a great crime for him.

Yes, for him: not for herself. She would
not have done it for herself But for him
she would do it.

For him she would do anything. For
him — and because the girl had challenged
her.

And if the deed was a great sin — did
not love atone for, hallow everything ?

And yet Maud Gainsborough hesitated
still. She was always unready when the
moment for action came. All that day,
and all the next, and all the next after
that she wavered in uncertainty of purpose,
undecided whether or not to put her
hand to the crime lying, so easy of accomplishment,
within her reach. Not that
those thoughts were restraining her which
might naturally be supposed, at such a
juncture, to have forced themselves upon
her consideration — the vulgar one of the
risk she would run, or the serious ones of
the gravity, in the sight of Heaven, of
the sin she meditated, and the monstrous
inhumanity of its merciless cruelty.

Such thoughts had little weight with
her. A certain pitifulness for the helplessness

of lier victim she did feel ; and a
distaste for the lying, and the duplicity,
and the hypocrisy without which her
cousin's destruction could not be accomplished
; and she did wish that the life
she had to take could have been one
which had not been so closely, so gently
united ^viili her own. But the thins:
that really held her back was the disinclination
to do, to act. If she could
have dreamed Lily's life away, if she
could have managed that, by some mysterious
spell, her own reveries could be
translated into reality, so that, as she
mused on, the girl should droop and
sink, softly lulled into the eternal sleep;
then Maud would not have hesitated at
all.

But, insufficiently nerved for action as
she was, Maud, all through those three

days, was drifting towards it. For power
to corrupt the soul, nothing is to be
compared to the dalliance of the hungry
will pleasing itself with the imagination
of an act it, as yet, lacks courage
enough to take in hand. And in
this woman there was not so very
much corruption of heart to be accomplished.
That which she had not been
able to tell Warrington, if it had been
spoken would have made him shudder.
And the remembrance of it was with her
often in these days. Only this that she
meditated now would be worse — the destruction
of this poor child.

But, ever dwelling upon it, ever desiring
it, ever wishing that it was only more
easy still, the woman was moving towards
it, rapidly growing willingly blinded to
every horror, to every consideration of

right and mercy and trust, and giving
herself over entirely to the guidance of a
passion that deepened suddenly with an
awful intensity as it found its imperious
demands, that not even crime should
stand in its way, met with a hearing,
whilst her heart (at least as far as concerned
her cousin) turned to stone, and
her conscience staggered, drowsy and
drunk with dreams and sophistries.

One of those evenings after dinner she
and Lily had their coffee beneath the
verandah. Lily had brought her book
and laid it open upon her knees, but the
work had not enough of charm to enchain
her thoughts, and, with her cheek rested
on her hand, she fell into a reverie ; one
so deep that she did not notice her
cousin's rising and leaving her.

Alone, Maud strolled down the garden.

When out of sio;lit of the cottage she sat
down on a garden-seat. A rose-tree grew
above it, and, putting up her hand, she
plucked one of the roses, and then, leaning
back in the corner of the seat, fell to
smelling the flower and mechanically
brushing her lips with its soft petals,
whilst she once more resumed her now
ever-recurring train of thought.

The evening was calm and still, delicious
with the gentle coolness that concludes
a summer day. Already the
light was fading, and the outlines of the
black-green trees stood out boldly against
the softly deepening sky. Scarcely a
breath stirred their leaves. Down on the
beach the sea slumbered, hushed and
motionless. Not a sound even of rippling
wavelets rose to the ears. From inland
came only now and then broken whispers

of sound of the sort that seem to accentuate
the stillness. The peace and silence
of the moment was intense.

The spell of it entered into Maud's soul.
Listening motionlessly she pressed the
soft, fragrant rose to her lips. VYhat
should her future be ? Such as this
moment — calm and rest unspeakable ?
After one bitter moment of a dark
struggle, calm and rest unspeakable? — or
for ever and ever disappointment, disquiet,
want, weariness, war with the
pitiless world?

But who that was not mad would
doubt ?

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON! PRINTED BY DUNCAN Macdonald, BLENHEIM HOUSE

1\

HBiiiBiil

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA

3 0112 041701696

!''i'iaiil«

i!''i;,iit,?i:;i:|!.;;s;',;:;;:;i:'v;x,./:|;.;'^'"; ■,;> ,

m

^H^i'i ;!^:

l;'!*^!?^''^.

'Mmfsm^^

'M'MM&^^^^

m'rn^

iiiiiiiillfili

^^^i&iM^

WiDO

ESSWEIi

0^

K-■""''Kr'

¥mH

VOL. III.

BY

HENRY CRESSWELL

Author OF

A MODERN GREEK HEROINE," ** THE SINS OF THE FATHERS,
"INCOGNITA," *the SURVIVORS," ETC.

Beware of the wrath of the dove.'
IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. in.

LONDON :

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1888.

All Rights Reserved.

A WILT WIDOW.

CHAPTER I.

It was towards seven o'clock in the evening,
about a fortnight later.

Eustace Warrington sat alone in the
large, barely furnished drawing-room, that
he had taken for his music-room, playing
the violin.

Outside the westering sun shone brightly,
but the Spanish blinds were lowered before
all the windows, and the room was both
dim and cool. A vague scent of the

VOL. III. B

mignonette, in the beds on the lawn, stole
in at the windows.

Absorbed in the liquid strains that
flowed from the eloquent edge of his bow,
the blind man sat on a music stool playing
adagio, adagio, rapt in his music. His
fine, sculpturesque face wore a strange expression
of melancholy, and the pensive
strains seemed to fill the room with a
charmed atmosphere of exquisite sadness.

The concluding chord floated out at the
open windows into the sunlit air, and died
into silence. The player removed his
instrument from his shoulder.

I do not know what is the matter with
me this afternoon,' he said, half aloud,
rising and walking up and down the room.
It is not usual for me to be oppressed with
a melancholy I cannot overcome. I wonder
what time it is?*

He took out his gold repeater and made
it strike. One, two, three, four, five, six :
one, two, three.

Past a quarter to seven,' he said. ' I'll
go and dress for dinner. How this impression
haunts nie !'

He rose from the music stool, and, going
to a table, put his fiddle into its case ; and
then crossed the room to the door. A
stranger would hardly have believed he
was blind. He was becoming very familiar
with the place.

At dinner he asked,

Is there any news, Frank ?'

Not much. I hear that Miss Hard wick
is worse.'

So I am sorry to hear. The rector was
here for a few minutes this afternoon.'

I saw her this afternoon, but only for
an instant. She passed me in the High

B 2

Street driving in the pony carriage. I
thought her looking shockingly ill, poor
girl.'

^I am very sorry to hear it,' replied
Eustace ; ' and that is all ?' he added, as if
expecting to hear more.

Warrington had nothing else to relate
of any interest. All through dinner Eustace
seemed distrait. After dinner, when
they were smoking, Warrington reverted
again to the subject of Miss Hardwick's ill
health.

That is a very sad thing about Miss
Hard wick.'

'What is the matter with her?' asked
Eustace. 'You saw her yourself What
impression did she give you ?'

I thought her looking miserably ill.
Pale, and with leaden shadows under her
eyes.'

All of which means nothing to me.
my dear fellow,' remarked Eustace, with a
smile.

No. , I beg your pardon. Well,
she has grown very thin : seems dull,
lifeless almost : tired, exhausted. I
should say that she was in some sort
of decline.'

You did not hear her speak ?'

'No.'

What do they call it ?'

Nothing that I can understand. Atony :
great prostration. A slight affection of
the heart, accompanied by great nervous
debility, I hear Gregg says.'

Who is an ass,' remarked Eustace.
Poor girl ! It is all very sad. She is a
nice girl. She has a charming little hand,
too, shapely and soft, with a nervous
touch ; and a pretty, playful voice, with

unexpected tones in it, light laughing
notes, and deeper modulations full of meaning.
She should have a heart as sweet asa
rose. I am very sorry that she is ill.
Of course you know what is being said
about it all.'

What ?'

Different things, according as the
speakers are by nature cautious or given
to exaggerations ; partizans of yours or of
Mrs. Gainsborough's ; disposed to think
that Miss Hardwick has been a little silly,
or that you have been very unkind to her ;
in fact, according to all the different shades
of character and veracity of all the gossips
of Lynhurst. Brutally — that you have
treated her shamefully : encouraged her,
and then jilted her ; and finally broken her
heart. Or, more mildly — that there has
been an unfortunate little love affair between

yourself and the lady, and that she
has felt what has happened exceedingly
deeply. Or, simply — that she has fallen
head over ears in love with you, and is very
unhappy because you do not reciprocate
her passion. These are the things, at
least, that reach my ears, from various
people. And I suppose there is some truth
in it, is there not ?'

In the way you put it in the last case,
Eustace, I believe there is some truth in
it.'

The girl has taken a fancy to
you?'

I believe she has : or really, I think I
might says I know it.'

And you ?'

Miss Hardwick is no more to me than
to you.'

Eustace was awhile silent. He was

weighing not his brother s words only, but
also their intonation. Presently he asked,

Do you remember a conversation that
you and I had about Miss Hardwick a
day or two after you first became acquainted
with her?'

I am afraid that it has left a stronger
impression upon your memory than on
mine.'

Said Eustace to himself, ' Ah, he
does remember it.' Aloud he continued,
' I took the liberty on that occasion
to say that you would fall in
love with Miss Hardwick, or something
to that effect. Possibly you remember
that ?'

I remember. Only it seems that instead
she has fallen in love with me. Your
intuition was right in the main, and wrong
in particulars. Eh ?'

^ And you replied?'

That I certainly should not.'

For reasons : you remember them ?*

'■ I remember that you gave yourself
a good deal of trouble to dispute my
reasons.'

Because your reasoning was false.'

It seems not — 1 think,' replied Warrington,
good-temperedly.

Eustace rose and went to the open
window, and standing there, with his
shoulder against the wall, continued to
smoke in silence.

Warrington, who had all along remained
at the table, regarded him. The expression
of his brother's face struck him. It
was a most unusual thing for any shade
of melancholy to display itself in Eustace's
features ; but there was one there this
evenings.

What is the matter, old fellow ? '
asked Warrington. 'You look out of
spirits.'

I am so. rather,' admitted Eustace. * A
melancholy mood is an unusual thing vdih.
me ; and when it conies depresses me a good
deal. To-night I am not quite myself.
This poor girl's fate weighs somehow on
my mind. We came down here, you and
I,' he went on, pensively, ' to make ourselves
a home in this dull place : a little to
husband our fortunes : a little to lead a
country life : a little to be quiet. We
formed acquaintances, of course ; and
amongst them was this young girl. They
say she is pretty. I know she is charming,
a brighter, gentler, finer soul than any of
the rest down here, and now she is
wasting, perishing away. I regret it.
Something about it seems to me piteously

sad. I am romantic to-night ; sentimental
what not. Laugh at me, my dear fellow,
by all means

'No. I do not know that it is any
laughing matter. Report gives the girl
out to be in a dangerous way ; and
death is not a laughing matter for anyone.'


I'll tell you what it is, Frank,'
said Eustace, presently moving to the
other side of the window, so that he
had his back towards his brother. ' You
might have done worse than marry that
girl.'

I am not a marrying man, and you know
it'

I know what you say about it. But
the o;irl is a ojood m.r\. And she will have
money. And — ,' this with a little more
of his air of good-humour — 'your place

here wants the money, if you don't want
the girl.'

Only at such a price, my dear brother,
I prefer to be without the money.
Les femmes ont trois tours che plus que le
diahhy '

'Miss Hardwick, too?'

I suppose so. At any rate I have no
wish to try.'

I don't believe it, Frank. And,' he
added, in a low tone, ' I am not convinced
that you do.'

And he came back to the table.

'Are you convinced in your own mind,
Frank ?' he asked, sitting down, ' that this
girl is suffering through no fault of yours ;
through no fault at all of yours ? The
girl has taken a fancy to you. That is on
all hands conceded. You know that you
have taken it into your head to have

a nasty opinion of women, and sometimes
you say things that are tolerably
bitter — things that might perhaps wound a
girl a good deal, a girl that was fond of
you.'

I have a nasty opinion of women,'
admitted Warrington. * And, as it happens.
Miss Hardwick knows I have it.
But that is all beside the question. I
never behaved to a woman otherwise
than I would have behaved when I
thought differently of them, and you
know it.'

I know that you don't intend to behave
differently,' said Eustace.

Why all these questions to-night, my
dear fellow?' asked AVarrington, not a
little surprised at Eustace's persistency in
the topic of conversation. ' What has put
all this into your mind?'

'I don't know,' replied Eustace thoughtfully,
as if unable to explain what was
passing within him, even to himself
Somehow, I have it weighing on my mind
to-night that we two came down here
and broke this girl's peace. But I don't
know what is the matter With me this
evening.'

Are you sure, Frank,' he resumed after
a pause, ' that you are in no way the
occasion of this girl's illness ?'

'No, Eustace. I am not sure.'

I do not know what you may have
done, Frank. But I take it, a woman does
not break her heart about nothing. And
it seems that this 2:irlis breaking; her heart
about you.'

You are going too fast, Eustace,' interrupted
Warrington. ' Nothing has passed
between us of the sort you might imagine.

I have never knowingly given Miss Hardwick
the least occasion to suppose that I
cared for her. I assure you of it on my
honour. And the reason is simple —
because I am not in love with her : and
have no intention of being in love with
any woman. There have never been any
reticences between you and me ; and T
hope there never may be. Vou are a
shrewd reader of character. 'I am not, and
you may know me better than I know myself.
But I have never concealed from
you what I liavc believed to be my real
sentiments. I am resolved not to have
anything to do with love affairs. I made
a solemn vow to myself to that effect the
night after I learned Violet's flight, and I
mean to keep it. I don't say I will never
marry ; a man may marry for so many
reasons. But I have done with love.

Tender relations with a woman are not
my metier. There may be men whom
women love and treat them well. I believe
there are. I am not one of that sort.
And I prefer to have nothing to do nth
people who, as I foresee, will treat me ill.
Justly angry as I have been at the way
my cousin behaved to me, I am able to
see that what happened was, in reality, a
happy escape at any rate for me ; and that,
had not the affair terminated as it did,
both my cousin and I might have had
afterwards to go through things of which
I should not like to think. Having then
once escaped from a life of misery, I have
no wish to expose myself again to the risk
of falling into it. I have vowed to have
done with love affairs. I think you know me
well enough, Eustace, to be sure that I am
not the man either to have encouraged a

woman to love me, or to have pretended
that I Alas in love A\ath her when I had no
feeling for her beyond that of singularly
agreeable but indifferent acquaintanceship.
That Miss Hardwick may have taken a
greater fancy to me than prudence warranted,
seems to be generally believed. That
I have not been careful enough to prevent
her liking me, is I allow possible. I sincerely
regret it. That I have in anyway
encouraged, her to like me, is not
true.'

then I should say — ' began Eustace,
and broke off.

I know what you would say, Eustace :
and I say the same to myself. The mere
fact that the girl may have conceived a
liking for me, and have been disappointed
not to find her affection reciprocated, is not
enough to account for her breaking her

VOL. III. C

heart about the matter. And the people
who believe she is breaking her heart about
it are, as it seems to me, justified in suspecting
that there is something unknown in
the background — or, plainly, that I have
been trifling with the girl. But I have
not. I have had my lesson about women,
at least, as far as I am concerned. I don't
grumble about it : I accept it. Life cannot
give everything to everyone of us.
It has given you many things, and not
sight. It has given me many things,
and not to be able to get on with
women.'

That theory is tenable. Life has its
disappointments and also its compensations,'
observed the blind man, philosophically.
' It may have in store a compensation
for you.'

Let us hope so.'

If you did find yourself some day in
love with a girl, Frank?' proposed Eustace.

I should do my best to cure myself
of it, and certainly get out of her
way.'

But supposing that you had reason
to know that she was in love with

you?'

I should still do the same.'

We are accustomed to be plain with
each other, Frank,' pursued Eustace, after
a moment's thought. ' Suppose it was
evident that this girl Miss Hardwick was
in love with 3'ou : and suppose conviction
was forced upon you that you were in love
with her : and taking further into consideration
that the girl has a pretty fortune,
that she is a charming girl, and that she
is possibly making herself very unhappy
about you : then ?'

c2

I should still do the same,' replied Warrington,
firmly.

A shade of disappointment crossed
Eustace's face, but he said no more.
He left the table, and sat down on an
arm-chair by the hearth, and a long
silence followed. Eustace's cigar went
out, and he threw the end away, and
sat musing with his brow rested on his
hand.

Frank Warrington still remained where
he had the whole time been, at the
table.

You seem really to have the dumps
very badly to-night,' he remarked at
last.

I have. I am uncomfortable, and 1 do
not know why. At least, that is not quite
true. The fact is — Well : it is foolish to
talk about dreams, and it is more foolish

still to believe in presentiments. And yet
I have had a dream that has had upon me
all the effect of a presentiment ; and I
cannot shake it off.'

lyell. Let us hear all about it. I ama
little curious to know what sort of thing
a blind man's dream can be.'

Eustace smiled, and rousing himself a
little said,

'As foolish as any other man's. But, if
you wish it. You must know then that I
fell asleep after luncheon, on the sofa in the
music-room, and I had a singular dream.
I dreamed that you and I went to see Miss
Hardwick ; to sec her, not to inquire after
her. Well, when we got to Cliff Cottage,
we found the place neglected and ruinous.
It was years since anything had been done
to the place, or since anyone had entered
it. I felt with my cane that the mosses

and weeds had grown thick upon the walls,
and the paint on the gates was many years
old, and blistered off by the sun. The
gates opened with difficulty, and squeaked
on their rusty hinges. However, we Event
in. Inside, the place was all overgrown.
The vegetation was rank and wild, and
smelt coarse and unwholesome. The paths
were covered with mosses and long
grasses. The shrubs, and the brambles
that had grown amongst the shrubs, had
encroached upon the walks, and caught
our feet as we advanced. Big boughs, two,
had fallen, and even trees ; and you had to
lead me round them. So we made our
way towards the house as we could. When
we reached it we found it in the same
condition as the grounds, the steps of the
porch had fallen out of the level, and the
weeds had pushed their way up through

the tiles, making them uneven. In the
hall, the floor-cloth was in holes, and
ragged. I caught my foot in it and nearly
fell. In the drawing-room the carpet
was worn through to the boards, and I
noticed that several panes of glass in the
windows were broken.'

How the deuce did you hind out that
the glass was broken ?'

'The wind came into the room in little
puffy drafts as it docs through a broken
window, and I could smell the rank
vegetation outside. When we sat down
the furniture seemed rickety, and it was
very much worn and damaged, and the
upholstery was threadbare and at places
torn. A thick covering of dust, too, was
on almost everything, and came off on my
fingers. In fact, we were in a ruinous,
deserted house, untenanted for years. But

the odd thing was that there was a large
party assembled. I recognised the voices
of almost everyone we knew in Lynham.
And of other people too. A great number
came in turn to speak to me, and, whilst
they Averse doing so, I was surprised to find
myself in evening dress. I was, at the
moment, speaking to one of the rector's
sons, and took the opportunity of laying
my hand on his breast. He was also in
evening dress. In fact we were all so.
Soon I heard that there was to be a ball.
But it appeared that there was no room
in which they could dance, all the floors
were so uneven, and most of them so rotten.
And there were no lights, except some dip-candles,
which flared in the draught from
the broken windows, and stank horribly.
But — this is the real point of my dream —
everybody was doing their best to appear

in excellent spirits, and to seem not to
remark all the contretemps and unpleasantness.
Some ignored them entirely, others
whilst partly admitting them, with a light
laugh, turned them into easy jokes. All
were talking, and laughing, and jesting as
gaily as possible. Only in the voice of
every individual "without exception, howsoever
cleverly they were labouring to
disguise their real feelings, I detected an
undertone of misf2:ivino: which assured me
that they all felt exactly what I did, a
horrible oppression, occasioned by the
assurance of something sinister around us,
which we, each of us, were too terrified to
confess. In the midst of this I simply
awoke, but I found myself still under the
influence of the same indefinite fear or
misgiving which had oppressed me in my
dream. And I have not since been able

to shake it off. But I can guess that you
are smiling at me.'

No. I am wondering what you eat for
luncheon.'

Eustace laughed.

That is the same thing, is it not ?' he
said. ' Only I had nothing for luncheon
different from what I usually take, a few
biscuits and a glass of claret. Your question
is the very one I first asked myself.
Seriously, however, this stupid
dream has left a strong impression on
me.'

After a minute he continued :

It is puerile to believe in presentiments
in the way in which the superstitious,
the ignorant, and the silly believe in them ;
and yet I am disposed to think that in
some ways our instincts are not without a
real prescience of danger, the more because

that would be easy to explain.
First there might be a dim consciousness
of something amiss in ourselves, weakness
timidity, or misapprehension ; all which
are dangerous things. And secondly,
seeing how roughly we reason, it would
be quite possible for our instincts to be
affected by a number of trifling things,
all of which had individually escaped
the observation of our reason, though
taken in the aggregate they might form a
serious whole. And that is just what I
feel to be passing in myself at present, a
thu apprehension of instinct that gives
me a presentiment of something sinister
very near.'

You have been sitting in a draught,
old man, and dreaming at the same time of
our tumble-down place here, and of Miss
Hardwick's being ill,' said Warrington.

Come now, suppose we have a game of
chess.'

By all means,' said Eustace, rousing
himself.

So they went to the library, and sat
down to play.

What are you going to give me ?' said
Warrington.

Only a bishop to-night.'

The play then began, and Frank
Warrington checkmated three times
running.

^ I'll only give you two pawns,' said
Eustace.

But he still lost the game.

It is of no use,' he said, gently pushing
the board aside. ' I am under some
influence from which I cannot free myself.'


Odd!' remarked Warrinsfton to himself.

For the first time in his life, Eustace's
imagination has got the better of his
reason.'

CHAPTER II.

Whether there was any truth in Eustace
Warrington's ingenious theories respecting
the possible causes of his sinister presentiments
; or whether his mental disquietude
was simply a case — rare with him — of
that apparently spontaneous depression
of spirits to which almost every one is
from time to time subject (for to conceive
of any occult or supernatural agency
miraculously warning Eustace Warrington
of dangers in the future would be absurd),

this, at any rate, is certain, that the realities
which were going on at Cliff Cottage
surpassed in horror all the quaint imaginations
of Eustace Warrington's post-prandial
dreams.

Maud Gainsborough was carrying out
her resolution.

Every day Lily drank in one way or
another her tiny fraction of a grain of
aconite ; and the drug did its work slowly
and steadily. Gently it reduced her to a
condition of so profound a prostration that
any consequence began to appear possible,
a fatal decay, perhaps a slow recovery, or
even a sudden collapse.

The widow, meanwhile, watched with
anxiety the effect of every dose.

Within the last few days, a new fear had
presented itself. If she proceeded too
rapidly she might awaken suspicion : and

she had never had any intention of proceeding
rapidly. But it occurred to her
now, that if she undermined the girl's life
very slowly it was possible that some one
would be found to declare that the climate
of Lynham was killing Lily, and to propose
her immediate removal. By-and-by anyone
who pleased might recommend removal.
Lily would die before she could be removed.
But just at present it would be
too early to hazard a fatal dose. So the
widow, haunted nth a perpetual misgiving
as to what might any day occur, was doing
her best to steer a middle course, to undermine
the girl's life as rapidly as she dared,
and yet not too fast, for fear of attracting
attention.

There were moments, and not moments
only, long hours, when the task that she
had set herself revolted her, made her

blood run cold to lier heart, and turned
her face to the colour of ashes.

After she had given her cousin a dose in
the morning she would go back to her own
room, and, dropping into a chair, sit motionless
with her head thrown down on her
arms folded on the table, morally stunned.
Left alone in the evening after Lily had
gone to bed, she found it impossible to
remain still, and tired of pacing the room
went out into the garden, and thence,
afraid of being noticed by the servants,
down to the little, lonely beach, where,
assured of not being watched, she would
walk up and down, up and down, up and
down by the hour, grateful for the darkness
and the coolness of the sea air. And
when she returned to the house how
haggard she was ! So haggard that she
shrank from seeing herself in the glass.

VOL. m. D

At night, in spite of all the fatigue she
gave herself, sleep became difficult. The
tension of her nerves, constantly overstrung,
refusing to relax itself in natural
repose.

It was a grim, ghastly task that she had
set herself in the destruction of this girl,
and it taxed and over-taxed all the will
and energy she possessed. But she
persevered.

Externally she was still very kind to
Lily ; devoted to her. There had been, fora
few days, a slight break in the affectionately
with which she had treated the
girl on her first return from town. When
her courage proved for a moment insufficient
for the perpetration of the crime
she meditated, her temper became uneven
and disturbed, and her way with Lily uncertain,
at times even brusque. But, now

that she had once more resolutely embarked
on her crime, her manner recovered
all its exceeding gentleness. Her attention,
her kindness, and her lavish expenditure
on the girl of the tenderest signs of
affection were untiring.

Poor girl,' she would say to herself.
It is hard upon her, and I do feel for her,
having to die so young. And I wish the
stuff did not affect her spirits. If 1 knew
of anything that would keep her bright
and happy, I would infinitely rather use it.
It makes me miserable to see her struggling
with herself, to keep back the tears that
come without any cause to her eyes.
Poor Lily ! It seems hard to believe
that I am doing her a kindness, and
saving her from years of pain and misery.
But, after all, what must be, must
be.'

d2

That was Maud Gainsborough's motto
now : * What must be, must be.'

Dr. Gregg had resumed his daily visits.
Marasmus was the last long word he
had found out for what was going on at
Cliff Cottage. Marasmus and a considerable
affection of the heart. Maud amused
herself with pretending to think he might
be mistaken, and she quoted what the London
physician had said. But all that
only confirmed the doctor in his own
opinion.

However, he began to shake his head,
and to look exceedingly serious.

And well he might. Lily wasted, wasted
like wax before the fire. The actual loss
of vital force was slow : from one day to
another there was scarcely a perceptible
difference. But the girl was utterly indisposed
to make the least struggle for existence,

and was sinking with indifference
into her grave. So far as Dr. Gregg
could see, there was nothing to be done
but to go on calling, putting down his
visits, and giving her things that could do
her no harm. She had come to have
no appetite, and ate nothing to speak
of; and so, for one thing, was in reality
starving.

The languor and indifference that had
got possession of her was astonishing. Her
will seemed to be more feeble even than
her strength. Xow and then sh(i was
capricious, wilful even, and intractable, and
would then insist upon doing or attempting
to do what she chose ; but, for the most
part, she was merely reluctant to exert herself
to make the smallest movement. Mrs.
Gainsborough took her for easy drives in
the pony carriage, but the drives only

tired her and made her head ache. And
once she crawled as far as Lynham and
back. Later, only to stand for a few
minutes appeared to be a fatigue to her,
and the instant she could she dropped into
a chair. If left to herself, she hardly
moved for hours together ; and would sita
whole afternoon, almost motionless, reclining
on a low lounging-chair in the
fresh air by the open drawing-room window.
She had again, on rising, been
seized with a sudden vertigo, and had
fallen twice on the floor. She began to
take her breakfast in bed, and her cousin
assisted her to rise, standing ready to
catch her in her arms if she should be
giddy.

I don't like this giddiness on rising,'
said Maud Gainsborough to the doctor,
after it had occurred once or twice. ' Do

you really think that that can be occasioned
merely by general debility, and a
slight affection of the heart ?'

Certainly. In these cases there is very
often a certain degree of giddiness on first
awaking ; not always. And, as for the
affection of the heart, feel for yourself;

see how abnormal and irregular her pulse
• »

IS.

It was so certainly, a rapid pulse, small
and soft and irregular.

Some days she appeared much worse.
Then the widow the next morning diminished
even the small fraction of a grain she
usually gave her. "When Lily recovered
a little, she returned to the usual dose,
but never exceeded it.

At the end of about ten days an incident
occurred of a graver character. Lily was
in miserable spirits, and had been crying

in the morning. Now in the afternoon she
was sitting under the verandah, a piteous
picture of exhaustion. Maud was doing
some fancy work, and presently put it down
to look for her embroidery scissors which
she had mislaid.

I know where they are, Maud. I saw
them upstairs. I'll go and get them for
you,' said Lily. And she made a movement
to rise.

'No. You stay where you are, dear.
I'll get them,' replied the widow.

But Lily wished to go, and when her
cousin would have insisted, became cross.
At times the depression from which she
was suffering reacted a good deal on her
temper and judgment, and made her unmanageable
and petulant.

I'm not so ill that I cannot go upstairs,'
she said now. ' Goodness knows I am

weak enough without your wanting to
make me out still worse.'

And with that she rose and went to fetch
the scissors, her cousin not caring to thwart
her.

The widow waited three minutes, five
minutes : and Lily did not come with the
scissors ! Maud Gainsborough rose and
went upstairs after her.

She found her lying on the floor of the
landing, supporting her head on her hand,
and panting for breath.

She had run upstairs, not quickly, and
on reaching the top her breath suddenly
failed her ; she could not say whether she
felt exactly dizzy or faint, but she had
sunk on the floor, just as she was. She
explained it all, drawing her breath with
some difficulty.

Maud put her to bed. And the next

day gave her no dose, and the next only-half
a dose. She had not relented, but she
believed that she had reached a point
where, if she did not mean to cut the
matter short, she must allow her patient
an interval of repose.

So for a few days Lily grew no worse.
She even improved a little. Too little for
Dr. Gregg to perceive, but not too little
for Maud's watchful eyes to notice.

One of these days Maud would have had
her take a drive, but Lily declined. She
would rather walk in the garden. The
widow, feeling tolerably secure about her
for the present, left her therefore, and went
out to pay some calls. When she was
gone, Lily changed her mind and took it
into her head after all to go for a drive.
Why not? She would have the pony
carriage and drive into Lynham. So

she gave the order and went to dress.

"When the carriage came round, she set
off gaily enough. The tiny excitement had
given a fillip to her spirits. She drove
into the town and did some shopping, and
then turned towards the parade.

In the street she passed Warrington, walking
slowly in the direction of Lynhurst.
A sudden flush suffused her face, followed
by an equally sudden pallor. The most
trifling; emotion now made her flush or
pale. She reached the parade and drove
twice up and down, and then turned the
ponies' heads homeward again. The
encounter with Warrington had put her
out of humour with her drive.

CHAPTER III.

Eustace Warrington was in the town that
afternoon. He had walked in with his
brother, but remained behind him to attend
to some affairs of his own. He had grown
quite familiar with the whole place, and
rather liked to be left to go about like the
rest of the world. There was something
indeed a little strange in the spectacle of
this man of educated appearance and
gentlemanly dress occasionally feeling his
way with his cane along the kerb, like a

blind beggar. But it was only here and
there that Eustace was reduced to this
expedient, and he took a pride in being
independent.

Only presently, crossing a street which
he had assured himself by his ear was clear,
lie was suddenly startled by the sound of
some vehicle approaching at a very rapid
pace. The vehicle was, in reality, a
butcher's cart without any driver. Some
boys had entertained themselves with
scaring the horse, whilst it was waiting at
a gate, and the brute had bolted. Stow it
was coming down the street in a zig-zag
way with the empty cart rattling noisily
behind. The sound, coming first from one
side of the street and then from the other,
perplexed Eustace, who was near the
middle of the road, and he stopped, aware
that the driver, keeping on the left of the

road, should pass behind him. The next
instant the noisy vehicle was upon him
and at the same instant that some one
called out to him in words he could not
understand, he sprang back, just in time
to escape being run over, but not in time
to escape being knocked down.

The box of the wheel struck his
knee. His leg gave way under him, and
he fell, and the horse and cart passed
on.

A little crowd gathered round him ; the
chemist from over the way, and several
other shop-keepers, and the man who had
called out, and some passers by

Eustace's knee gave him great pain ;
and he was unable to rise. Three men
took him up gently, to carry him into the
chemist's shop.

^ Send word as quickly as you can to my

brother,' he said. ' He has gone home to
Lynhurst.'

At the same instant Lily drove up, and,
seeing the crowd, stopped to inquire what
had happened.

Blind gentleman run over, miss.'

A sudden horrible fear smote Lily's
heart. Mr. Warrington was so attached to
his brother.

Is he hurt ?' she asked, breathlessly.

It's Mr. Eustace Warrington, miss,'
answered another man standing near.
He was not run over ; only knocked
down ; but he has hurt his knee.'

And, whilst he spoke, Eustace, carried
in the arms of the men, in her hearing
repeated his request.

'Send at once to Mr. Warrington at
Lynhurst.'

'Tell Mr. Eustace Warrington that I

just now passed Mr. Warrington, and that
I will drive after him and send him back
said Lily to the man who had spoken to her.
And, giving her ponies a flick, she drove off
at a sharp trot in the direction of Lynhurst.

Warrington had walked on slowly. He
was not a mile out of Lynham when he
heard a trap coming along the road behind
him.

A minute later Lily suddenly drew up
short at his side, almost throwing her
ponies on their haunches.

Warrington stopped regarding her with
surprise.

Mr. Warrington : I beg your pardon,'
she said, hurriedly : 'But Mr. Eustace
Warrington has met with an accident ;
not a serious one : and he is asking for
you: he is at Campbell's the chemist in
New Street.'

How it made her heart leap to be again
speaking to this man ! The blood had
rushed into her face and scalded her cheeks,
but she could not help it. All the way
she had been in a flutter of agitation,
thinking of what she should say, wondering
whether she would overtake AVarrinor-
ton, and really once more speak to him face
to face, assuredly for the last time ; and for
once be able to do him a tiny service.
Now that the moment was come, and that
he was here listening, with his dark eyes
fixed on hers, the reality surpassed her
anticipation.

He had raised his hat to her as she spoke.
Now he asked, anxiously,

What has happened ?'

^ Mr. Eustace Warrington was crossing
the road, and was knocked down by a cart.
I came up immediately afterwards. He

VOL. III. E

was asking for you, and I drove on at
once. I believe there is no occasion for
any serious alarm, but I heard that he had
hurt one of his knees.'

I am extremely obliged to you : I
really am extremely obliged to you.'

He spoke hurriedly, a little embarrassed
as it seemed, and again raising his hat,
turned to go back to Lynham.

'But, Mr. Warrington,' exclaimed Lily,
turning on her seat, for he was already
striding away, ' won't you — won't you take
the ponies and drive in ? You will get
there so much sooner : and I fear that your
brother is in pain.'

'Your brother,' — she ought to have
said, ' Mr. Eustace Warrington,' but a little
touch of nature brought the more familiar
term to her lips, and she did not herself
notice it.

She rose to leave the carriage.

But you ?' asked Warrington.

I'll wait over there under the trees.'

She pointed to a seat a little way
down the road, under the shade of some
elms.

You can send me the pony carriage
back.'

Really, but this is very kind of you,'
said Warrington, half hesitating to accept
her offer.

She had her foot on the step of the
carriage, but was half afraid to trust herself
to step out unaided. Warrington saw her
embarrassment, and held out his hand
to assist her, and she placed her hand
in it : his touch thrilling every nerve in
her.

He took the opportunity the moment
gave him to look closely at her. The

E 2

piteous sight ! This pretty girl ! A great
pang of pity wrung his heart. What a
wreck the poor little thing was. How
wan ! how pale ! how thin ! Her cheeks as
white as lilies : the little bones cutting
sharp angles in her young face : her eyelids
so heavy ; her great eyes full of a desolate
languor • the small hand that lay in his a
mere handful of poor little bones ; and her
arm so powerless that it was a wonder
how she could have managed the ponies.

What Eustace had said a few nights
before came into his mind. And he asked
himself,

Did I really come down here and destroy
this poor girl's peace ?'

Not willingly would he have done such
a thing. There was a natural chivalry in
him that would rather that he should have
loved her, and have been jilted again,

than have broken the poor girl's heart like
this.

What was it that made him feel that
now, at this moment, if he might have
done it, he would have liked to draw the
little broken thing into his own strong
arms and to have held her there against
his breast, and to have said to her something
— what could it be ? — that should
have again given her life and courage,
as he had given her courage that day of
their first meeting on the beach.

But she was safely on the ground. All
that both of them had felt had occupied
less time by stir than it has taken to relate.
And she had said, * Thanks,' and he had
let her hand go. And now she stood
aside to leave him to step into the pony-carriage.


He did so at once. He was anxious

about his brother, and yet he was loth
to leave her to wait alone by the roadside.


^ Are you sure that I ought to leave you
here?' he asked.

Pray do not apologise.'

I am more obliged to you than I can
say.'

For all answer a little bow ; a cold,
formal little bow.

Wheeling the ponies round, Warrington
drove away. He was soon in Lynham,
thanks to the nimble little beasts.
Eustace's knee-cap had been displaced
by the blow from the wheel. Warrington
quickly made arrangements for his being
taken to Lynhurst, in the way that would
give him the least pain, and then hurried
to the pony carriage to drive back to Lily.
He might, indeed, have sent the carriage

to her by some one else a 
sooner : and he chided himself for
selfishness for not having done so. But
he wished himself to take her back her
carriage, he could not have exactly said
why.

He was anxious about his brother, and
yet, somehow, all the way he was thinking
of Lily Hardwick.

He found her waiting under the trees at
the place she had named. During his
absence she had been saying to herself,
'- Now, if he brings the ponies back himself,
that will be acknowledging that he
appreciates what I did. If he sends them
back by some one else, that will be because
he does not care.' Only as the delay grew
longer she became sure that he would himself
come back with them. And here he
was at last.

Not that their meeting had any meaning
now. That was all over.

As he drew near she rose, and came a
few steps to meet him.

I have arranged everything for my
brother. And I do not know how 1 am to
thank you,' he said.

You are very welcome. I hope Mr.
Eustace Warrington is not seriously hurt.'

The tone was perfectly polite : but a
perfect stranger might have used it.

We fear that his knee-cap has been dislocated
: that it may prove a long and
rather painful affair.'

I am very sorry to hear it.' — Still the
same reserved tone.

And she moved to step into the
carriage.

May I assist you ?' said Warrington.

Thanks.'

And she accepted the support of his
arm.

Then taking her seat, she gathered up
the reins.

And then with a little inclination of her
head, whilst Warrington raised his hat,
she spoke a word to the ponies, turned them
round and drove away.

Half-a-minute Warrington stood looking:
after her. Then he walked on toward
Lynhurst.

He was disappointed. He had fancied
that, after he had brought her back her
pony-carriage, what had occurred might
furnish an opportunity for a reconciliation.
He had hoped it, too. She had behaved
very prettily, very kindly, in coming to
tell him of his brother's misfortune, and in
lending him her little trap. After that he
thought that she might accept some sort of

apology ; and then they would be friends
again. But evidently her intention was
nothing of the kind.

He was sorry for it. He would have
liked to be able to show her that he
had deeply felt her kindness.

And, poor girl ! How ill she seemed to
be!

He would not have believed that a mere
disappointment in love could have so
utterly broken a girl's life. And certainly
he himself was not worth what she was
suffering. She must have been very much
attached to him — very much more than he
had ever suspected.

He began to think with himself that if,
instead of making her understand that he
had not the least capacity for caring for
her, he had proposed to her and made her
his wife, he would at least have done a

good action. And he would have had a
charming little-wife, charmingly pretty,
and charmingly bright, and with a good
heart too.

If he could have foreseen all that would
ensue, he really did not know that he
would not rather have married her, than
have let the poor little thing go and break
her heart in this way for a man not worth
it.

CHAPTER IV.

^ Mrs. Gainsborough's compliments, sir,
and she would like to know how Mr.
Eustace Warrington is this morning.'

Thus the servant coming into the room
where Frank Warrington was sitting by his
brother's bedside.

It was the second day after Eustace's
accident. The injury he had received had
turned out after all to be more serious than
was at first supposed. There was even
some danger of Eustace's being lame ; and
Warrington was contemplating with disquietude

the prospect of his brother's being
perhaps deprived of the pedestrian exercise,
which, as Avell as being good for his health,
was one of his principal pleasures. Dr.
Greojg had been sent for at once, and had
done what he could. Whether he had
done what he should was another question,
and one about which neither of the brothers
felt altogether satisfied. In any case, there
was no doubt that Eustace would have to
remain for a long time in bed, and to bear
a good deal of pain. Warrington had had
a ]ed made up for him in one of the large
unoccupied rooms. The place was bare
and comfortless in appearance, the few
pieces of furniture disconsolately scattered
at wide distances from one another, and
the paper partly torn off the blank walls.
But none of these things mattered to
Eustace, and the room was large, and cool,

and airy, and filled in this summer-tide
with the fresh fragrance of the trees
outside.

Eustace was in great pain, and had hardly-slept
at all during the night. On the previous
day he had been better. Warrington
had read to him for several hours, and,
though suffering a good deal, Eustace had
been able to give his attention to what
was read, and had been amused. But this
morning the pain was too acute for him to
be able to listen.

He was bearing it all very patiently ;
with his usual good spirits making a jest
even of his sufferings, jokingly expressing
a hope that a series of sinister accidents
might not be about to make him, as well
as blind, lame, deaf, dumb, and insensible ;
and laughing at his brother for blaming
himself — as he had done severely — for

having left him alone in Lynham, and so
having been indirectly the cause of what
had ensued. * As if, my dear Frank,' he
said laughing, ' it was not all my own fault :
seeing that I infinitely prefer having my
own way, and taking the consequences, to
being always dependent either upon you, or
upon anyone else. A weakness on my part
I know, but one of which this little contretemps
is not going to cure me, I assure you.'
At the same time, though not in any way
alarmed about himself, the pain he was
suffering strongly disposed him to agree
with his brother that they should seek
some advice more trustworthy than that
of Dr. Greof^.

CO

What am I to say to Mrs. Gainsborough,
Eustace ?' asked Warrington. ' I suppose
it must be that you are in more pain this
morning ?'

Yes. Unluckily you may say that with
a good deal of truth.'

Who has come ?' asked Warrington.

The man-servant, sir.'

I'll go down and speak to him myself
said Warrington. And he added, in explanation
to Eustace : ' I want to know
how Miss Hard wick is.'

Ah, he wants to know how Miss Hardwick
is,' said Eustace to himself, as soon as
the other had left the room. * I wonder
whether Frank's eyes will ever be opened
respecting Miss Hardwick. He is a deal
blinder than I. These people who can see
are all alike in that respect. It is a most
extraordinary thing. And they have no
sense of touch or hearing to compensate for
it. I really sometimes think that we are
the better off after all.'

Meanwhile Warrington went to the

hall to speak to Mrs. Gainsborough's
servant.

The momentary rencontre between
himself and Lily Hardwick, of which his
brother's accident had been the occasion,
had left an impression upon Frank Warrington
altogether disproportionate to its
brevity and the simple nature of all that
had passed. The girl's behaviour ; her
driving off to find him the moment she
had learned what had happened ; the
crimson that flushed her face as she
addressed him ; the loan of her carriage ;
her wan features ; the wasted little hand
she had laid in his ; her reserve, and the
air of an utter stranger with which she
parted from him ; everyone of these had
furnished him with matter for reflection
that had since occupied his mind
every moment that it was released from

VOL. Il F

his immediate anxiety about his brother.

Really, without in the least suspecting
it, Lily Hardwick had again played a
master-stroke. She had compelled a man
who was not indifferent to her, to notice
and admire her, and at the same time had
refused him any opportunity to express
what he felt. The skill of the most accomplished
of coquettes could not have gone
much farther.

And her master-stroke was producing its
effect.

There is no surer way of parting love
than to part the lovers. The expedient is
almost infallible. It is almost as difficult for
men and women to continue to love those
whom they never see, as to fall in love with
those whom they have never seen. Young
people who value each other's affections
ought to be warned of this, to take it to

heart, and to remember that howsoever
highly they may rate their own powers
of constancy they will he very foolish to
trust to the sincerest passion to withstand
what is really a law of nature : that those
who are parted cease to love.

After all, that is a gentle, tender law of
the great mother's, made to spare many
hearts, and a law too with a mighty reason.
For that the young should love is the
most important thing in the whole great
world. Everything else, politics, law,
order, science, art, literature, philosophy,
virtue, and truth are in importance, all of
them taken together, just a mere bagatelle
compared with the love of the young.
Humanity got along without any of these
things for many thousand years, the greater
part of humanity gets along without most
of them still. But without love, plain, 



sophisticated passionate love, the whole
future of the race would not be worth sixty
years. And so if young people are thwarted
in their love, parted and kept out of the way
of bringing their passion for each other
to happiness, nature (who is not to be
thwarted) gives them oblivion, mostly very
promptly (she does not stand upon ceremony,
nature) and a new love. If she did
not, how many people would have children
? In how many cases is a marriage the
wedding of two first loves? So, seeing that
this is nature's way, let all whom it may
concern take the fact to heart, and keep insight
of those whose love they prize.

But, to resume; when, on the other hand,
young people who are attached to each
other, after having been parted only for a
little time, insufficient seriously to affect
their passion, unexpectedly find themselves

again thrown into each other's society,
then the converse takes place : there is a
sharp reaction, a few minutes suffice to repair
and more than to repair any coolness
time and separation may have produced in
their mutual attachment.

This was exactly what had happened to
Warrington. The chagrin he had at first
felt, when Lily Hardwick cut him, had to
some extent worn off with time. But now
that he had again exchanged half-a-dozen
sentences with her, felt the touch of her
hand, looked into her wistful eyes, and
then seen her turn away, relentlessly
determined to be for ever a stranger to
him, lie discovered that there was something
(? between her and him stronger than
he had suspected.

He found Mrs. Gainsborough's servant
waiting in the hall.

Will you please,' said Warrington, ' give
my compliments to Mrs. Gainsborough and
tell her that Mr. Eustace Warrington has
spent a bad night, and is this morning in
great pain : but that we hope that everything
is going on satisfactorily. And,
by-the-way, how is Miss Hardwick this
morning?'

Not so well, sir.'

Warrington returned to his brother.

Miss Hardwick is worse,' he said,
briefly.

That was all, but the cadence of his
voice was grave.

And Eustace heard him cross the room
and sit down by the window.

Later the doctor called, and had nothing
very definite to say : ' Sometimes in these
cases there is very acute pain, in fact
generally.' After luncheon Eustace slept

a little and AVarrington went out to take a
turn in the avenue.

When a man is for ever thinking of one
little face : when he is for ever dreaming;
of the touch of one small hand; when nothing
can divert his mind from five minutes
spent the day before yesterday with a girl
with weary eyes ; when the pain of one
little heart is more to him than the pain of
all the world ; when the sadness of one
little breast seems sadder to him than all
the sadness he himself has ever known ;
when he be<2:ins to think to himself what
he would not gladly do, or suffer, to bring
the smiles back into that little face, to
drive the pain from that little heart, to
restore the light to the once bright eyes —
what is then the matter with the man ?

AVhat is the matter with him? The
question must be a very difficult one to

answer, for Frank Warrington walked up
and down in the avenue, and could come
to no conclusion.

But in the evening, after dinner,
smoking alone under the shaky old
verandah, he confessed the truth to himself
at last.

I have been in love with that girl for
the last six months or more — that is the
fact.'

There are moments in the life of a man,
when he receives the impression of a curtain
being suddenly drawn aside, displaying
an unexpected panorama. All that he sees
has been there for a long time, only the
curtain has hid it. The effect upon him
is a shock of sharp surprise, heightened
by the fact that he knows what has suddenly
been revealed to him is already of
long standing.

It was such an impression that Frank
Warrington received this evening, and a
long time he walked up and down on the
uneven flags, reviewing in the new light
suddenly thrown upon it his own history
of the last eight months.

He summed it all up for himself very
briefly at last.

'Eustace told me how it would be with
me, and I would not believe him. The
girl too fell straight in love with me, and
I have given myself the trouble to break
her heart. Because my cousin, who did
not love me, and with whom I should
most probably not have been happy, jilted
me, I have, of my own free will, coolly
flung away a charming girl who does love
me, as charming a girl as any man could
ask for as his wife : and, having been
duped by one woman, I have behaved

like a brute to another. Certainly I am a
fool.'

And now?

That is always the great question.
The past, nothing can be done with
that. In the present something is always
possible.

Leaning against the pillar of the verandah,
Warrington was half disposed to go
straight to Cliff Cottage, even without
going upstairs to see his brother, and to
ask to see Miss Hard wick ; to tell her that
he had been a blind idiot, but that he
had found his senses at last, and that he
was come to ask her to remember that
they had been friends.

Only this did not seem to be a very
hopeful speech to make to a young lady.
And, the more he pondered what he really
should say for himself, the more difficult

it appeared to find anything reasonable.
He could not go point-blank to the girl,
and tell her, ^ I love you.'

And he began to think of the other side
of the question : ' How would Miss Hardwick
reply ?'

Suppose she were to reply that she
had no desire to be loved out of compassion.


That decided him. Lily Hardwick would
refuse any advances he might make. He
had found out the truth too late. He
might have had her only a few weeks
ao^o ; and the "girl would not have broken
her heart. Now — she would refuse him.

He was quite right. If he had gone to
see her that evening, supposing that he
had managed to see her, which was unlikely,
Lily would have told him that their
acquaintance was at an end.

In addition to wliicli she would not
have lived another forty-eight hours.

Mrs. Gainsborough had heard of the
adventure of driving after Warrington to
tell him of his brother's accident. She
found in the proceeding a significance
quite different from any that either Lily or
Warrington had given it ; and had already
taken counsel with herself what she would
do if this last move of her cousin's should
have consequences.

So it was well that Warrington did not
act upon his first impulse. Instead, he
returned to his brother.

Eustace was in a little less pain. Warrington
sat down by his bed, and they
began to talk of the advisability of consulting
some one more experienced than
Dr. Gregg. If the thing could be managed,
Warrington would have had Eustace

go up to town, and have the best advice
procurable. It turned out that Eustace
himself had thoui]^ht of the same thin:.
The only question was how he would
bear the journey. Warrington proposed
to brings over a well-known surgeon
from the neighbouring county town,
and to take his advice on the subject.
If he thought Eustace could be moved,
they would go up to town together,
and remain there until Eustace was
well.

Only,' objected Eustace, ' if this is
going to be an affair of some months, you
will want to come down here to look after
the place.'

'The place must look after itself,' said
Warrington. He moved restlessly, and
Eustace heard it. Then he added, 'The
truth is, I shall be glad to get away. I

don't know that 1 won't sell the place,
after all.'

Again he stopped, but resumed after a
minute,

You may as well know all about it.
I don't want to make secrets. You remember
possibly a conversation that we
had a few days ago ; on the day of your
ominous dream?'

'We talked about Miss Hardwick?'

Yes.'

My dear fellow, do not say anymore.
I perfectly understand what you
mean. You have discovered that, after
all, I was right about you and Miss
Hardwick.'

Yes,' bluntly.

Well, I can't tell you how glad 1 am to
hear it.'

Only, unfortunately, you see, I have

recovered my senses a little too late
remarked Warrington, sombrely.

How so ? What do you mean ?'

Warrington explained what he meant :
with which the reader is already acquainted.


But Eustace interrupted him.

Look here, Frank, you have been
blinder than a mole. You have found
that out at last. For once, just believe
that I can see some things. Go, the
first thing tomorrow morning, to Miss
Hardwick. Think nothing about what
you will say to her till you are with
her, and then say the first thing that
comes to the tip of your tongue.'

In a way, the advice was good advice.
Warrington could see that. But he told
his brother frankly that he did not believe
he should follow it.

And he did not: fortunately for poor
Lily, whose immediate fate, as has been
said, was just at this juncture handno;
upon a thread.

CHAPTER V.

Instead of going to Cliff Cottage, Warrington,
on the following morning, directly
after Dr. Gregg's visit, ^Yllicll was early,
went off by rail to try to find the
medical man of whom he and his brother
had spoken on the previous day. He was
fortunate enough to bring him back with
him in the afternoon. A consultation followed,
with the result that it was decided
that Eustace should at once be taken to
town, the medical man being of opinion
that the journey ought not, with proper
precautions, to do him any harm.

VOL. HI. G

By noon the next day, the brothers had
both left Lynham.

The news of their departure reached
Cliff Cottage the same evening.

Maud Gainsborough at first hardly believed
her ears ; and then drew, secretly,
a long breath of relief. For the last three
days she had been apprehending the new
complications which she believed must inevitably
arise now that her cousin had
chosen to renew her acquaintance with
Frank Warrington. But once more chance
had proved her ally. Warrington was
gone away. If Eustace's case proved only
half as slow as the medical men predicted,
long before the brothers returned
the day of anxieties about Lily would be
over.

She herself took the news to Lily.

Mr. Warrington and his brother have

gone away to town. They left at noon
to-day quite suddenly. Mr. Eustace Warrington
is to be under the care of some
celebrated surgeon.'

Lily was lying on the drawing-room
sofa, to all appearance only half-conscious,
in reality prostrated with a maddening
headache. She made no answer, but she
said to herself,

So, then, it is all over !'

She was in too much pain to think, but
some vague, straggling impressions passed
across her aching brain. She would
liked to have seen Warrington once more,
just once more : perhaps to have put her
hand in his, and to have said, ' Good-bye.'
This morning — was it this morning, or
yesterday ? — when she was a little better
she had been resolving that the accident
which had occurred should not become

g2

the ground of a reconciliation. But, what
had that to do with it ? Why, that perhaps
it would have been better if she had
relented a little : only because she would
never see him again. Never ! never ! never !
seemed to beat upon her aching brain like
the strokes of a hammer. Before he came
back she would be dead. She was sinking
every day. They tried to persuade her
that she was not, but she knew better.
She would die. And she would never see
Frank Warrington again. If, instead of
only bowing to him that afternoon, she
had said, ' Good-bye,' that would have been
better.

But what was the use of wishing that
she had done differently? The opportunity
was past. And she could not
think : her head gave her too much pain.

Maud had sat down by her side.

Perhaps it is just as Avell that they are
gone, dear. I mean, darling, that perhaps
you will feel it all less, now that Mr. Warrington
is gone away.'

But the girl still said nothing.

Are you very ill to-night, dear ? '
asked Mrs. Gainsborough, bending over
her.

Oh, for goodness sake, Maud, do not
speak to me. You put me to torture,' exclaimed
the girl, impatiently. ' I am mad
with head-ache.'

'Where is the pain, dear?'

At the back of my head.'

Maud rose and glided away from her,
saying to herself,

Yes, I know it docs bring a headache
at the back of the head. I am sure
I wish that it did not. It is no pleasure
to me to make the poor girl suffer so.'

By the window she paused and looked
out.

Three months,' she reflected in herself.
^ It would be something about that time
the doctor said, before Mr. Eustace Warrington
will be well. Three months,
August, September, October. The trees
will be in all their glorious autumn tints,
but the days will have become shorter,
and we shall have fires. There will be
chrysanthemums in the garden, some
dahlias, and the last of the roses. And
Lily will have been buried weeks before
that. People will be beginning to forget
all about her. Perhaps the little marble
cross will be already standing above her
grave. He and I might meet by it some
day; that will be worth remembering.
The hunting season will be beojinnino^.
And I shall have found those papers. We

shall have all the winter before us, the
days of thick furs, and of afternoons that
turn soon into twilight, and of confidences
by the bright fireside. And I shall be in
black. Black always becomes me. And
I shall be able to talk to him touchingly
about poor Lily, so touchingly. I shall
soon make him come to me. The magnetism
will be stronger than he will be
able to resist.'

And, with her pulse heightened with
pleasurable anticipation, the young widow
turned from the window, and took up her
fancy-work.

It turned out to be a good thing that
Eustace had come to London. Dr. Gregg
had not gone to work in the right way at
all, and his patient would, in all probability,
have become permanently lame
under his treatment. After a little consideration

Eustace preferred, rather than
to be nursed in lodgings, to become a
paying patient in one of the larger hospitals.
He got more attention, and better
advice, in that way than was procurable
in any other manner, and, besides, he was
amused with the idea of spending his
enforced imprisonment in the study of an
hitherto unknown phase of life. His
brother took rooms near the hospital, and
every day spent a number of hours with
him ; and, though Eustace suffered a good
deal of pain, the cure of his knee, under
the careful watching and nursing of the
hospital, progressed surely and satisfactorily.


More than once he broached to his
brother the subject of Miss Hard wick.
But he found that Warrington was disinclined
to talk about her, and invariably

at once changed the conversation to some
other topic. Warrington had thought a
brood deal about her since he had been in
town. That goes without saying. But he
was unwilling to converse on a subject
about which he still remained very undecided.
He had not. in fact, been able
to make up his mind how a man in his
position ought to behave.

Two courses were open to him. One
course was, seeing that he had had the
stupidity to reject the affection of a
girl for whom he had formed a sincere
attachment, to cure himself of his passion
for her as best he could ; to call time and
circumstances to his aid to efface a love he
had forfeited the right to plead. The other
course was, simply to wait and see what the
future might bring forth ; perhaps some
day to return to Lynham, to earn the right

to press his suit, and then to see if, after
all, Miss Hardwick would perhaps pardon
and accept him.

Of the two courses his inclination was,
on the whole, towards the former. There is
a disposition on the part of every man of
really honourable feelings to forbid himself
the love of a woman, though he maybe
sincerely attached to her, the instant
he detects anything to blame in the history
of his passion.

But for the present, at any rate, the
course he was pursuing was the latter, a
mere waiting upon uncertainty.

He was in no particular good-humour
with himself, a trifle dull and out of
spirits, and disposed to smoke a great deal,
and to say little, as he had done after his
cousin jilted him.

Eustace formed his own opinion about

his brother's despondency. He believed
that Warrington, having found out that
he was in love with Lily Hardwick, had
come to London with the deliberate
intention of curing himself of his liking,
in accordance with the resolution he had so
often expressed never again to fall under
the influence of a woman.

Eustace regretted the resolution. He
could have given more good reasons than
one for honestly wishing that his brother
would marry Lily Hardwick. She Alas a
good girl, and would make an excellent
Avifc. If he was at all a judge of character,
she was just the wife Frank should have.
Her gentle companionship would do Frank
a world of good : and with their two
fortunes, which were fairly equal, they
would be comfortably off, and Warrington
in a position to complete the redemption of

his estate. For his own part Eustace
would gain a sister-in-law whom he could
sincerely like ; and the girl would marry
a man she loved.

But Eustace said nothing about all
these things to Warrington. He knew his
brother's temperament. Warrington was
a man to whom it was useless under certain
circumstances to say anything. So
Eustace held his peace, and patiently left
events to go their own way.

Meanwhile day succeeded day, and ina
manner that was eventless and a trifle
dull, more so for Warrington than for
Eustace, who had a knack of being always
amused at what was going on around him,
a fortnight passed by.

Then one afternoon, quite unexpectedly,
Warrington ran up against Anthony Gainsborough
in Pall Mall.

My dear AVarrington ; you in town !'
exclaimed Mr. Gainsborough.

'Well, I was just going to say the
same thing to you,' replied Warrington.
I imagined that in this month of August
you must be either on the Norwegian
coast, or up in the Baltic, or on some
other voyage or another.'

No. We are all at Twickenham.'

Warrington noticed the ' we,' and knew
what it meant.

Can you come over and dine with us ?'
continued Anthony Gainsborough.

Well : you know that I had rather not,'
replied AVarrington, frankly.

To change the subject he began to
explain what had brought him to
town.

Have you had luncheon ?' said Anthony
Gainsborough. ' Xo ? Well come, and

have luncheon with me at the " Travellers,"
and we will have a talk.'

So the two men went to the club
together. After luncheon Anthony Gainsborough
again tried the strength of his
persuasive powers in a pressing appeal to
Warrington to come to dinner.

What you are doing, Warrington, is
not right he said at last. ' Your
cousins are asking, begging to be permitted
to make you T amende honorable
and you refuse them — two young girls.
It is not right, my boy. But if you
won't, you won't.'

Howbeit, Frank Warrington was obdurate.


'- Whom do you think I met in town this
morning?' asked Anthony Gainsborough
■of his nieces at dinner.

Neither of the girls could guess.

Frank "Warrington.'

Uncle Tony !' exclaimed both the girls
simultaneously. And Essie went on, 'But
why did you not bring him back with you
to dinner ?'

I did my best to persuade him, I
assure you,' answered Anthony Gainsborough,
'but he is uncommonly shy of
you two young ladies, and I could do
nothing with him.'

I wish I could see him,' remarked
Essie.

You think you could persuade him ?'
asked her uncle.

Essie's only answer was to repeat,

I wish I could see him.'

If it had depended upon Warrington,
that she would certainly never have
done. Howbeit, very few things depend
upon a man's own Avill, happily for

men ; and she and Warrington met before
the end of the next week.

Warrington went in the evening to
the theatre. He had a taste for the
drama, and, having had no opportunity
for indulging his taste at Lynham, had
several times lately, when the hospital
regulations precluded him from being
with his brother in the evenings, dropped
in at such houses as were open.

He was in the stalls. When the piece
began, the three stalls nearest to him in
the same row were unoccupied. Towards
the end of the first act, a movement on
his left aroused his attention to the fact
that some one was coming down the row,
probably the occupants of the empty stalls.
He looked round casually.

Anthony Gainsborough and the two
Misses Chesterfield.

So what he had refused to accord, in
spite of all the justest and most kindly
persuasions, chance compelled him to
submit to without consulting his tastes at
all. A thing that in this world very often
happens.

Anthony Gainsborough was the first
of the three, and at once sat down in
the stall nearest Warrington. The girls,
who had changed colour, bowed as they
passed, Violet first, Essie after her.
And AVarrington, of necessity, returned
their bows. By that time Anthony
Gainsborough was offering his hand,
and shook hands with him with a very
cordial ' How do you do, very glad to
see you.' Essie was next to her uncle,
and bent forward to see if there was
any possibility of shaking hands with
Warrington across him. But Warrington

VOL. III. H

had already resolutely fixed his eyes on
the stage.

The drop-scene fell. As it came down
Warrington bent over to Anthony Gainsborough,
and indistinctly said something,
in the form of an excuse. Anthony
Gainsborough could not understand it,
and it was not Warrington's intention
that he should understand it. And
then Warrington rose and left his
stall.

He had foreseen what would ensue if
he remained in the theatre, and he meant
quietly to slip away.

But before he had reached the end of
the row Essie had risen too.

Where are you going, my dear ?' asked
her uncle.

Don't you see that Cousin Frank is
leaving?'

He will come back.'

That is what I am not so sure of.*

And she followed AVarrinp^ton out.
He had his crush hat in his hand, and
made straight for the exit of the
theatre.

'Ah! I thought so,' quoth Essie to
herself.

The people coming out to promenade in
the corridor during the entre-act impeded
Warrington a little, or she would
hardly have overtaken him. As it was,
however, just as he reached the glass-doors
that led into the vestibule, a tall, slim
figure slipped suddenly before him, and a
irirl held out her hand.

Cousin Frank.'

And, as he hesitated, though it was only
for an instant, she added, looking into his
face,

What ! you won't shake hands T

Of course there were already half-a-dozen
people looking on. And Warrington
had to shake hands.

Essie Chesterfield drew him a little aside
from the doors.

You know, Frank, that you are being
awfully unkind,' she said, confidentially,
in a slight tone of reproach. And then,
looking him right in the face, she added,
with intention, ' Will you come to luncheon
at Twickenham tomorrow?'

I am very sorry ' began Warrington.


'Then, listen. — No!' He had made a
step towards the exit, and she put herself
in front of him. ' Frank, you are awfully
unkind. When will you come?'

Warrington simply looked down on the
ground.

'You mean that you won't come at all?'
said the girl. ' It is awfully unkind. \'i
and I want to beg your pardon, and to
thank you ; and you know it. And,
Frank ' — she dropped her voice — ' you
insist come''

But really, Miss Chesterfield,' protested
Frank Warrington ; and he looked around
him.

He was exceedingly uncomfortable. He
could not exactly say how many people
were admiring this small interment of a
domestic drama between herself and her
cousin which bliss Essie Chesterfield was
providing for their entertainment, nor how
many were listening to the subdued schooling
which the tall girl was administering.
But, to judge from the smiles and side-glances
of which he just caught a glimpse,
they must be a good many.

Listen went on Essie, in a lower voice.
'You must come. If you won't, Frank,
I'll kneel clown ' — she pointed to the floor
at her feet — ' and beg your pardon here :
before everyone. I will ! Shall I, or will
you come to luncheon tomorrow?'

A pretty dilemma for a man to find
himself in ! With a girl who was about
to go down on her knees in a nice open
place, close to the exit of a theatre, with a
score of men and women standing around
to see.

If you cannot make up your mind, you
leave me no choice,' continued Essie, seeing
Warrington delayed reply, as much
because she had clean taken his breath
away with surprise as for any other
reason.

And, resting one hand against the walk
she actually bent her knee.

No, no, Miss Chesterfield,' exclaimed
Warrington, stepping forward and arresting
lier movement. ' I'll come to luncheon.'

He had positively turned pale.

'To-morrow?' looking straight into his
eyes.

'To-morrow.'

To-morrow, at two, then. You icUl
come ? On your honour as a gentleman ?'
laying her hand on his shoulder, to
emphasize her words.

'Yes.'

Xo : say " on your honour." '

Well ' — he could not help laughing —
'son my honour," then.'

Then, that is all right,' said Essie, removing
her hand. ' Are you going back
to see the rest of the piece ?'

No, I am ixoino; home.'

Then irood-nia'ht : and au revoir,'

They shook hands, and Warrington went
out of the theatre, and she back to her
stall.

She had had the best of the encounter
by a good deal, as she had had the last
time she and her cousin parted — in the
Midland Railway station. But the truth
is that, in every single combat of this sort
between a man and a girl, the sentiments
natural to the man, and the courtesies that
education and the usage of the world have
added to them, and the absolute liberty of
attack the woman enjoys, and the very
narrow bounds within which the man is
compelled to limit his defence, give the
sir a crushing; advantage, against which
no man can hold his own, unless he is a
boor or a lover.

When Essie got back to her uncle, she
said,

Frank is coming to luncheon with us
tomorrow, at two.'

you persuaded him, then?' asked Anthony
Gainsborough, with surprise.

No : I forced him.'

On the morrow Warrington kept his
promise, and went down to Twickenham.

When he returned home in the evening,
he had been at Anthony Gainsborough's
house not some three hours as he anticipated,
but more nearly ten.

And when Eustace inquired about all
that had happened, there really was nothing
to tell. Warrington on his arrival had found
his cousins alone : and their apologies for
the way they had behaved to him were
made before their uncle came into the
room ; a few words, gracefully spoken, and
very sincerely ; that was really all, and it

was all over. The only thing that had
astonished him was that Essie, in the
midst of her little speech, burst into tears.
Afterwards Anthony Gainsborough came
in, and they had luncheon. And Warrington
remained till late in the evening,
talking to him and to the girls about their
cruise and about his estates at Lynham.

CHAPTER YI.

So the whole quarrel had come to an england
on retrospect, there did not seem to
have been very much in it. An escapade
of two girls who ought to have known
better, but whose lives were being made
a burden to them, and a breach between
two young people going to be married,
who had had the extreme good fortune to
quarrel before the wedding-day instead of
afterwards. It appeared that it would
have been rather to be regretted if things
had fallen out anyhow else. Warrington

began to fancy that lie had shown himself
more resentful than wise.

And the next day the girls went to see
Eustace.

At any rate the reconciliation was a
boon to Eustace. His knee was progressing,
and he suffered much less pain, but
he was still unable to leave his bed, and
was permitted little change of position,
and the hours (though he never complained)
were sometimes very long. His
visitors, too, were few. Most of his friends
were out of town, and so to have his
cousins come to see him, and to receive
an occasional visit from Anthony Gainsborough,
were very welcome treats to the
blind man. The girls came often. They
brought him flowers and fruit, and stayed
with him a long time, sometimes reading
to him, more often telling him of all the

gossip they knew, and talking to him
(frequently both at once) with all the
careless gaiety of two light hearts without
a chagrin in the world. There was a talk
of Eustace's going to Twickenham for a few
weeks as soon as he was well enough to
become an out-patient, and Eustace himself
evidently looked forward to the plan with
pleasure.

As for "Warrington, now that there was
nothing to keep him away from Twickenham,
he went there somewhat often. It
was a good deal more pleasant to have
Anthony Gainsborough's agreeable house
to go to when he pleased than to wander
backwards and forwards only from his
chambers to the hospital and from the
hospital to the club, and from the club
back to his chambers.

One evening, Anthony Gainsborough

coming home rather late after dining at
his club asked,

Have either of you girls ever heard the
name of any young lady at Lynham mentioned
in connection with your Cousin
Frank?'

Neither of them ever had.

My informant said something about a
young widow. But it appeared to me to
be mere gossip,' said Anthony Gainsborough.


The following day, when Warrington
was having luncheon at Twickenham,
Violet asked quite casually, in the course
of the meal,

Essie, is it not a long time since you
heard from Lily Hard wick?'

Yes, more than three weeks.'

You answered her last letter ?'

along ago. I think I must write to

her again. I am afraid that she is ill. In
her last letter she spoke of herself as being
far from well.' Looking across the table
at Warrington, she continued, ' Did you
know that Ave knew Miss Hardwick who
lives with Mrs. Gainsborough at Lynn


'I think I have heard something to that
effect,' said AVarrington.

A few days later he asked Essie,

*Have you heard from your friend Miss
Hardwick ?'

Why, no,' answered Essie. ' I wrote but
I have had no answer. It makes me think
that she must be really ill — too ill, perhaps,
to write. I wish I knew.'

After a short pause Essie went on, ' I
believe that you do not know her, do
you ? She was here with us a good deal
in the summer, and when we asked her

about you she told us that she did not
know you. But,' Essie looked at him
archly, 'she told us that report gave you
an unenviable character.'

'Indeed?' said Warrington.

Yes,' answered Essie. ' I forget now
exactly what it was that she said: "Mysogy-
nest," I think. Some sort of rather morose
animal.' She went on, looking at him a
little significantly, ' I don't know that
she was not a wee bit right. You are a
good deal altered, Frank, from what you
used to be.'

You think so ?'

Essie did not answer the question,
which perhaps wanted no answer, but
smoothing out her dress remarked,

I never quite understood how it was,
Frank, that you managed not to know
Lily Hard^vick. You know Mrs. Gainsborough

quite well, do you not ? And
Lily Hard wick lives with her.'

'Yes, I know Mrs. Gainsborough,'
answered Warrington.

And there was a shade of embarrassment
in his tone.

I am afraid Lily Hard wick must be
very ill,' resumed Essie, speaking rather
to herself than to Warrington. ' If you
don't know her, I suppose it is of no use
asking you how she was when you left
Lynham.'

But I happen to know. The day
before we left, Mrs. Gainsborough sent to
inquire after Eustace. And I took the
opportunity to ask the servant how Miss
Hard wick was that morning, for we knew
she was not well. And that morning she
was worse.'

Let me see,' said Essie, ' that was a

VOL. III. I

month ago. Ah, but I have heard since
then. She was not well when she came
up to town : and she had a relapse after
her return home, I did not understand
exactly what was the matter with her.'

I was told great lassitude, and some
slight affection of the heart.'

Do you know how it began ?' asked
Essie.

That was a difficult question. But
Warrington managed to extricate himself.


I was told that she had been very much
upset about something, and that it had
affected her health. I do not know how
far it is true.'

Upset about what ?'

Well, really, you see, I am only repeating
hearsay. I am afraid that I cannot
tell you much more.'

And he began to talk ot something
else.

But, guarded as he had been, his manner
had awakened in Essie a suspicion of
something concealed. And she was not
long in forming plans to discover if her
suspicions had any substantial grounds.
After a very brief reflection, she resolved,
to see whether anything was to be learned
from Eustace. And on the occasion of
her next visit with her sister to the hospital
she acted upon her resolution. And
very surprised were both she and Violet
when they found out what there was to
hear.

Good gracious, Eustace,' exclaimed
Violet, before Eustace had said a dozen
words. 'What are you saying? Frank
is in love with her. You don't mean
it?'

i2

Tell us everything about it, everything,
everything cried Essie, without
waiting for her sister to finish what she
was saying.

Eustace did tell them everything, from
the evening on the beach to their leaving
Lynham. He was under no promise of
secrecy. And he had some hope that
by speaking he might do good. And in
that he was more right than he suspected.

'You see,' he concluded, in his philosophic
way, * when a man has been
shamefully treated by one woman — that is
you, Vi '

'Yes. I plead guilty, Eustace,' admitted
Violet Chesterfield.

Well, then, that is just the time when
he is most likely to fall straight in love
with another woman. And that, you see,
is what Frank did. Only — as you had

used him so badly — he had unluckily
made some sort of vow to himself never
to have anything to do with young
ladies. He is exceedingly fond of this
girl, and she is simply breaking her heart
about him. But he will have nothing todo
with her. Now, you two made the
mischief, and put it into his head to
make this vow. You had better see if you
can't mend it by making him break his
vow.'

And, meanwhile,' put in Essie, ' what
is the matter with poor Lily is that she is
simply breaking her heart?'

'Yes.'

Well,' said Essie, when she and her
sister were again in the carriage to drive
home, ' what do you say to what we have
heard this afternoon?'

I didn't think Frank would have
changed his mind so soon,' answered
Violet, evidently not quite pleased.

Essie burst out lauo^hino;.

CHAPTER VII.

It was a day or two later. The two
sisters, walking slowly up and down a
shaded path in their uncle's garden, were
eno:af>:ed in discussing the revelation
Eustace Warrington had made to them,
and Essie was describing a plan of action
upon which she had determined.

But, Essie !' cried Violet, a good deal
surprised at the boldness of the measures
her sister was describing; 'you don't
mean that you are really going to talk to
Frank about his being in love with Lily
Hard wick ?*

'Certainly, that is just what I do
mean,' replied Essie, stopping to select
a tea-rose from a bush. ' Lily is my friend.
Frank has behaved badly to her, and I
am going to interfere.'

*But '

Well : but what ?' demanded Essie,
fastening the rose in her bosom.

How can you ? How will you manage
it? How will you begin? You'll make
him awfully angry.'

He can be as angry as ever he likes,'
remarked Essie, looking down at the rose
to see how it matched her dress. ' I shall
attack him quite directly, and the very
next time I see him. Apropos; that is
well thought of. He is coming down tomorrow
to dine. He is sure to come early.
He likes sitting on the lawn here better
than sitting in his chambers : and he

knows that we are going on the water.
You and Uncle Tony ^ shall go on the
water, I shall stay at home and get Frank
to walk down with me to meet you, and
on the way I will make him understand
what he has to do.'

And you will see that he won't doit,'
answered Violet, in her careless
way.

Essie made no answer. She had resolved
on her part. It was some one's place to
interfere, to put a stop to Lily Hardwick's
breaking her heart, and to Frank's being
a goose, and refusing himself a charming
girl to whom he was sincerely attached.
And if no one else would do anything, she,
Essie, would. And she would succeed,
too. She had turned her cousin Frank
round with her little finger already on two
occasions, and she could do it again on a

third. At least she herself entertained no
doubt on the point.

The following afternoon Warrington
did come down as Essie had predicted.
He was rather surprised to find her at
home.

^ Vi and uncle are gone on the water
she said. ' I am going down presently
to meet them. Will you come down with
me ?'

Warrington assented, suspecting nothing.
His brother had not informed him
of what he had told the girls.

So, half-an-hour later, Essie and he set
out together.

As soon as they were fairly out of the
grounds, Essie commenced :

I have a bone to pick with you, Cousin
Frank.'

What about ?'

About my friend, Lily Hardwick.
Why did not you tell me that you
liked her ; and had known her ; and
quarrelled with her ; and all about it ?'

And, turning her head, she looked
straight at his face for his reply.

Warrington had changed colour, and
looked anything but pleased.

'Well, you don't say anything,' remarked
Essie, as he did not answer.

Who told you anything about this ?'
demanded Warrington.

Your brother. He told Violet and me
the other day. He was under no promise
of secrecy, he said, and he told us everything.
You have been behaving badly,
Frank, to Lily Hardwick.'

• Possibly,' admitted Warrington, with
a considerable degree of coolness. ' Suppose
we change the subject.'

'No, Frank,' replied Essie, firmly.
Now we have begun it, we will go on
with it.'

To be plain, then, I had much rather
not,' objected Warrington.

'Why?' demanded Essie, flatly. And
as he made no answer she went on,
Look here, Frank, be reasonable now.
Give me your arm. There' — she came
close to him and slipped her arm within
his — ' now, listen to me, Frank, and don't
get cross. You are awfully put out about
this affair. Don't say that sou are not.
Remember everyone can see that you are
not yourself a bit. Everyone who knows
you is saying, '' What is the matter with
Warrington?" and meanwhile you are
upset altogether, taciturn, and out of
spirits, and vexed, and grave, and dissatisfied.
I've seen it these three weeks.

and Eustace is quite unhappy about it.
And you are miserable yourself, Frank.
And you don't know what to do. You
are ashamed to go to Lily, and to tell
her the truth. And you can't make up
your mind not to love her. And you'd
be a dreadful goose if you could, for she
is the dearest girl in the whole world.
And so you're in a regular hobble, you
see. And now, won't it be much wiser,
seeing you have a knowing little cousin —
that is I, you know — who can help you
and will help you in any way I can, won't
it be much wiser to accept my assistance,
than to be cross with me, and to behave
just like a self-willed man — that is to say,
an obstinate bear — and to refuse my
assistance, when you know very well that
if I don't do you any good I can't do you
any harm.'

Warrington was silent. He knew the
girl meant to be kind, and he had to
admit a great deal of truth in what she
was saying ; certainly in her last remark,
that if she did him no good she could do
him no harm.

Well, now then,' resumed Essie, ' Frank,
you are very fond of Lily.'

I suppose so,' granted Warrington,
vaguely.

You suppose so ! Oh, you men ! I
wonder how any girl can waste her
affections on you. You suppose so ! And
Lily, she is fond of you ?'

They say so.'

You know nothing about it, then ?'

Oh, yes ; I take it it is true. But I
thought you heard all about this,' added
Warrington, who was not enjoying being
catechized.

Well, then : and now, pray, how
came you two, you and Lily, to
quarrel ?'

She cut nie, you see.'

What for, Frank ? Come, now.'

Look here, Essie, I'd rather not talk
about all this.'

But, you goose, you must talk about
it. If I am to help you. Xow, sir, what
did Lily cut you for?'

It was useless to try to put her off, and
so Warrington, seeing he had no alternative,
replied,

Well, you see. I knew she was getting
rather fond of me,' he explained somewhat
sheepishly : ' and I believed I had had
enough of the amenities of young ladies. I
mean '

Oh, I know what you mean,' interrupted
Essie. ' That refers to Violet and me. We

shall never hear the last of it, I know.
Never mind. Go on.'

Well, then. T didn't want the girl to
care for me, when I couldn't care for her,
you see,' explained Warrington, becoming a
little more at his ease. ' And so, I tried to
make her understand that. Well, I meant
it kindly, I assure you.'

^ You tried to make her understand
that it was no use to fall in love with
you.'

Yes — exactly so.'

And then she cut you.' She walked on
a few steps in silence, and, looking on the
ground, continued, ' Of course you were
surprised at her cutting you ?'

Well, I was.'

Just like a man !' commented Essie.
He says something to a girl that makes
her fit to drop for shame and mortification ;

and then, if she lets him understand that
there really are limits to her patience,
he is taken entirely by surprise. Well,
now, Frank, it is useless to talk about
the past, is it not? We cannot alter
that.'

Certainly not,' conceded Warrington.

But do you know what you have got todo?'


No, I don't,' replied Warrington, rather
blankly, and beginning to think the assistance
he was supposed to be going to receive
Alas very problematical.

Well then. Look here, Frank. If you
had a sister — first of all — this would never
have happened : but next, she would, long
ago, have told you what I am going to tell
you now. You have no sister, you see,
so you must be content, for the nonce, to
take me for one. You remember you were

VOL. III. K

quite ready for that once upon a time ;' this
with a mischievous little look from the
corners of her eyes.

Ah, but I escaped from that,' said
Warrington, with a laugh.

Thanks to me. Still now, cousin, you'll
think the advice I am going to give you is
nonsensical, and all that, I daresay, but
remember that in some things women
understand women better than men do.
And what you must do is this : you must
go down to Lynham at once ; and you must
see Lily Hardwick. You must not think
beforehand anything about what you are
going to say to her, but when you do see
her you must tell her that you have been
a donkey ; that you didn't know your own
mind ; and that you want her to let
bygones be bygones ; and after that you
can say anything else you like ; and she will

listen to you. Now, will you go down to
Lynhani tomorrow ?*

I may as well tell you at once that I
won't,' replied Warrington, after a pause.
Your advice is, I daresay, good advice.
But it is advice I have heard before. That
is unluckily just what Eustace recommended
me to do.'

And why did 3'ou not do it ?'

Because I don't believe Miss Hardwick
would listen to me.'

Frank, you know nothing about it,'
said Essie, with all the importance of an
authority. ' She could listen to you.
You go down and take her by surprise,
and say what I have told you. And she
will listen to you. I am sure of it;^
because if I liked a man, and he had behaved
to me as you have behaved to Lily,
and then he were to come to me and

k2

say what I have told you to say, I
know 1 should listen to him and forgive
him;

That was certainly a strong argument.

Still, however, Warrington repeated, a
little doggedly,

Possibly. Still, I tell you fairly, I am
not going.'

Essie drew her arm out of his, and
said,

Look here, Frank, do you know that
you are very tiresome ?'

Warrington lighted a cigarette, and
they walked on together a little way in
silence. After all, it was Essie, not Warrington,
that had come near to losing her
temper.

In his heart Warrington felt a little for
her, although she had certainly taken
upon herself to interfere in what was not

her business. She had meant kindly, and
she had given what was possibly good
advice. If it had only happened not to
be the one thing he was resolved not todo.


But suddenly Essie stopped short.

'Frank,' she said, turning and facing
him, ' I'll not be humbugged. You ought
to go to Lynham and you shall !'

I'm afraid not, Essie.'

Yes — you shall go. I'll make you.
I've spoken to you kindly and nicely,' —
she walked on as she continued — ' I have
told you that I would be your friend and
help you. I have said to you just what
your own sister would have said. And
you ought to do as I have told you.
But if you won't, do you know what you
are ? — a nasty, selfish, ill-natured wretch !
Oh, yes, I mean it,' she continued, coming

nearer him and giving him a positively
savage little slap on his shoulder.
If you don't go down to Lynham and
see Lily, you are a nasty, selfish, hardhearted
wretch. Listen, Frank : I don't
want to think you are the sort of man
to be cruel to a girl — cruel, you hear
what I say, don't you — cruel ! nor that
you have a mean, contemptible pride that
can't confess itself to have been in the
wrong. But, cousin, do you know how
you are behaving to the girl you say you
love ?'

It was not the sort of speech a man
would be likely to answer, and Warrington
did not answer it. He simply went
on smoking his cigarette.

^ Do you remember, Frank, when I
helped Yi to get away from you ?'

I do,' said Warrington.

Perhaps you remember how }'ou felt
that day, and what you thought of Vi —
and of how she had behaved to you.'

Perhaps I do,' admitted Warrington.

And it does not occur to you that you
arc behaving far worse to Lily Hardwick
than Yi behaved to you ? Vi was a girl,
and kept the truth from you, a man ; and
you, a man, are keeping the truth from
Lily. \i did not love you, but you say
that you love Lily. All that came of Vi's
deception was that you escaped from
marrying a woman who Avould never have
made your life happy. The consequence
of your deception is that Lily Hard wick
is breaking her heart. Vi had a motive,
bad enough ; that sie was ready to do
anything to escape from grandpa. But
you have no motive, Frank, but your own
pride. And if Vi was mean to let you

believe she loved you when she didn't, and
to encourage you to love her and then to jilt
you ; what, pray, are you. who will neither
let a girl you love know that you love her,
nor undeceive her in her belief that her
love is returned with indifference, but coolly
look on, and to see her break her heart ? If
you suffered, what do you think Lily is suffering
— we women love more than you do.'

Warrington dropped his eyes, and looked
down.

In an instant Essie had stepped up to
him, and put her hand on his shoulder.

Frank !'

I will think of what you have said,
Essie. I will, really.'

^ I knew you would,' said the girl.

Late in the evening, after dinner, he
came across the drawing-room to her, when
she was playing the piano.

As she saw him approach, she leaned a
little towards hin, without ceasing to
play.

Bending to her ear, he said,

You will not tell anyone ?'

^Xo.'

I'll go down to Lynhani tomorrow.'

CHAPTER VIII.

Warrington was a little surprised the
next morning to find on his breakfast-table
a note from Essie, enclosing one of
her cards.

Use my name without hesitation, if
it can be of any use to you,' ran the note.
Says that I sent you to inquire after Lily,
because I could get no answer to my
letters ; or anything else of that kind
that may prove of service to you. And
hon voyage,'

He set out by an early train, arrived

at Lynham about noon, and had luncheon
at the ' London Hotel.'

It was with mixed feelings of apprehension
and anticipation that he, after
luncheon, lighted a cigar, and directed his
steps towards Cliff Cottage. Could it be
really true that he was on his way to
make a proposal of marriage to Miss Hardwick?
The thing seemed impossible. Buta
thousand reminiscences of her filled his
brain.

Would he, as his cousin predicted, succeed
in rectifying the consequence of his
mistakes? How would he find Miss Hardwick?
The better for his absence? Disposed
to pardon him ? Or already fairly
advanced with the task of forgetting him ?
He answered himself in conjectures of all
kinds. But, of the things men say to
themselves, they believe the good and disbelieve

the bad, and so are, after all, very
little wiser for their reflections.

The familiar gate of Cliff Cottage came
in view, the pines, and the little thatched
cottage, covered with creepers, nestling
among them. It seemed to Warrington a
long time since he had last been at the
spot. He entered, and passed down the
short drive, recalling casually Eustace's
queer dream of the place being turned to
desolation. The reality was a contrast to
the dream. The garden was bright as
ever with flowers, and in a condition of
the most exquisite neatness.

But, when he reached the porch, he
found a little card fastened to the handle
of the bell, with the request, ' Please do
not ring.' And the knocker was wrapped
in wash-leather.

Warrington stood looking blankly at

the muffled knocker. For the moment,
the shock of the surprise had paralysed
his thoughts.

Miss Hardwick must be very ill,' he
said to himself, ^yith. misgiving. Then he
knocked gently.

After all, it might not be Miss Hardwick.
Mrs. Gainsborough might be ill, or some one
staying in the house.

He knocked lightly, and waited. Sometime
elapsed, and no one came. He began
to doubt whether he had been heard.
At last, however, the door was opened by a
maid-servant of sirs. Gainsborough's whom
he recognised.

Is Mrs. Gainsborough at home ?' he
asked.

Yes, sir.

You have some one ill in the house.'

Miss Hardwick, sir.'

It was as lie feared, then !

• Indeed. I have been away in town.
She was not well when I left There has
been no improvement in her health ?' He
hardly knew what he was saying.

Oh, no, sir. Miss Hardwick has
been sinking for many weeks,' said the
girl.

Is she in danger?'

Oh, yes, sir. The doctor gives no
hopes, sir.'

The girl made her answers as if she was
quite tired of repeating the same thing to
different people.

Mrs. Gainsborough is at home ?' asked
Warrington.

Oh, yes, sir.'

^ Do you suppose I could see her ?'

If you will come in, sir, I'll see. Misers
sees very few visitors.'

Still the same tone of an oft-repeated
answer.

Warrinsfton entered, and was shown into
the drawing-room. He kept the servant
waiting a few minutes whilst he made some
more inquiries respecting Miss Hardwick :
how long it was since she had been able
to go out? whether Dr. Gregg was still
attending her? and so forth. Then
the 2:irl leaving: him went to seek her
mistress.

Warrington stood with his back to the
hearth, and thought. How familiar the
room seemed ! The old escritoire, the
little' writing-table with its ormolu ornaments,
the cosy low chairs, the feminine
trifles, the round table strewn with books,
the fresh sweet flowers.

And so the doctor gave no hopes. Was
it possible ? In this very house Lily Hardwick

lay dying. Could it be possible ?
Did women, when they really loved, break
their hearts for a man in this way, and lie
down and die ? Had he really wrecked
this girl's life ? He would never forgive
himself.

A miserable load of disquiet, a species of
moral and mental suffocation oppressed
him, and made his thought slow and
laboured.

He waited a long time, half-an-hour or
more, moving restlessly about the room,
unable to sit still, continually revolving,
painfully, anxiously, the same train of
thoughts.

Had he come too late ? Would they let
him see her ? Was the girl really dying ?
Had he really broken her heart ?

The servant returned.

Mrs. Gainsborough sent him her compliments

and hoped that he would excuse her
not seeing him. Miss Hardwick was so
very ill this morning.

A reasonable request enough of Mrs.
Gainsborough's.

But he was loth to go.

He sent the servant back with another
message. "Would she kindly tell Mrs.
Gainsborough that he was sorry to seem
importunate. But he had come down
from London on purpose to hear how Miss
Hardwick was. Friends of Miss Hardwick's
had sent him. They were most
anxious to know all they could about her.
In fact, he had promised them to see Miss
Hardwick. If that was impossible, he
beo^ored that Mrs. Gainsborouofh would see
him ; would herself let him hear what he
was to say to Miss Hardwick's friends. He
did not mind how long he waited, or, if

VOL. III. L

Mrs. Gainsborough would name any time
when it would be more convenient for her
to see him, he would call again.

So the servant went to see.

She returned in a few minutes.

Mrs. Gainsborough was very sorry, but
she hoped he would excuse her. Miss
Hardwick was so very ill.

It seemed there was nothing to be done
but to leave.

He laid two cards of his own on the
table ; and the one of Essie Chesterfield's.

I wish I had brought Essie with me,'
he said to himself as he put the .cards
down. ' I don't feel at all sure I am
doing right to leave without seeing
anyone.'

And he walked to the door slowly, as if
waiting for some idea to occur to him
before he reached it.

^ Will you, please, five my compliments
to Mrs. Gainsborough,' he said, stopping,
and speaking slowly : ' and tell her how
exceedingly sorry I am to learn that Miss
Hard wick is so very ill ; and that I regret
that Mrs. Gainsborough could not see me.
I suppose there is no hope of her seeing
me if I wait, is there ?'

'Mrs. Gainsborough is very sorry, sir,
but I was to beg you to excuse her, because
Miss HardAvick is so very ill.'

You will, please, give her my message,'
said Warrington.

And he passed into the hall.

'That girl is well trained to repeat

what she is told,' he said to himself: ' but

it seems that I must go back to town

having effected nothing. I wish I had had

Essie with me?'

In the drive he paused, and looked

l2

back at the cottage. Which was her
window ? In which room of the house
was it that she lay dying ? He had no
means of o-uessins^. He turned and went
back to Lynham.

Was it possible that this girl was really
dying? Did girls break their hearts, and
die like this ?

The pretty girl she was ! And a nice
girl, too. A good-hearted girl, and a
spirited little thing. The pluck with
which she would go at a fence, or a
brook, or anything if she was once persuaded
that she could manage it. And
now dying !

What would he not give to see her and
to tell her — even if she were dying — that
he had loved her all the time.

He had never known it as he knew now :
now that he was to lose her ; now that he

was never to see her face again. His
darling dying. Yes : it was his dashing that
was dying.

There was a dull pain in his breast ; of
the sort that comes to strong men when
forced to face the impending of a great,
inevitable grief

He was sure that he ought not to have
let himself be turned out of the house by
the maid-servant, without insisting on seeing
Mrs. Gainsborough at last. But what
could he do ?'

He went into Lynham and called on Dr.
Gregg. The doctor was out. Warrington
waited to see him, and had the grim satisfaction
of hearing from the surgeon's own
lips that there was no hope of Miss Hardwick's
recovery. She had been slowly
sinking for weeks. The wonder was that
she was still alive.

From the doctor's house Warrington
went straight to the station, and returned
to town and to Twickenham.

As he crossed the hall, Essie rushed out
of the drawing-room to meet him.

'Well?' she exclaimed, with a bright
smile on her face that faded as her eyes
met his.

Miss Hardwick is dying.'

Dying !' exclaimed Essie, with consternation.
'You have seen her?'

No.'

You have not seen her ! But '

Come into the library, and I will
tell you all about it,' said Warrington.


When he had concluded, he said,

I wish you had been with me,
Essie.'

Yes. I would have seen her,' remarked

Essie, with a certain determination. ' But,
if she is dying, Frank, it could not have
done much good.'

CHAPTER LX.

The doctor, as he had told Warrington,
could hold out no hopes.

Indeed, everyone at Lynham was only
waiting from day to day to hear of the
anticipated end. Lily herself, an emaciated
wreck, prostrate, pallid, and almost lifeless,
for hours together unable to lift her head
from her pillow, was almost weary enough
to wish that the end might come.

After Warrington and his brother went
away to town, Maud Gainsborough had
taken, morally speaking, a look around

her. The result of her survey of the
situation was an assurance that no further
impediment lay in her way ; and that she
might proceed to the destruction of her
cousin with that quiet deliberation which
she had always regarded as the safest
and surest way of accomplishing her
end.

For a fortnight Lily still went out of
doors. She even went twice into the town.
But on the second occasion she was taken
faint, and had to be brought home. After
that she did not go further than the
garden. Soon her walks in the garden
became shortened. She could no longer
get so far as the top of the cliff : soon only
half-way down the garden, and back ; then
no further than the chestnuts, and the
tennis lawn.

The decline of her forces was slow and

extremely irregular. One day she would
walk three or four times as far as on the
preceding. The next day she was scarcely
able to crawl a few yards. Getting up in
the morning was always a terrible task.
She was invariably dizzy on rising, and
daring dressing would lie down two or
three times to rest.

Even on her best days — that was when
the widow had given her a smaller dose of
the drug, or suppressed one dose, or even
both — she would lie for hours on the sofa,
or recline in a lounging-chair, indisposed
for the least exertion, often complaining of
headache, and almost invariably a prey
to an indescribable dejection. The least
thing made her cry, and the most trivial
emotion brought into her face either a
sudden flush or an equally sudden deadly
pallor.

By-and-by there was no more walking
in the garden. Only all the long, summer
afternoons her chair was put by the
open drawing-room window, and she lay
there still, and with wistful, hollow eyes
looked at the sunshine and the slowly-moving
shadows, and the trees and the
flowers, and the dappled lawn, — all so
near and yet all gone out of reach of her
failing strength.

Sometimes, when she went upstairs,
on reaching her room she dropped on
her bed breathless and exhausted. The
head-aches, too, became worse — terrible
head-aches, day after day, intolerable,
maddening.

Oh, Maud,' she would wail, ' this is
insufferable. I shall go mad. I would
rather die than this. It is harder to live
in such awful pain than to die any death."

Quoth Mrs. Gainsborough to herself on
these occasions,

*I am putting her out of her pain
as fast as I can. How impatient she
grows.'

Now and then the widow gave her a
larger dose. Then she lay for hours
perfectly motionless, unable to raise her
head from her pillow.

And all the time, day by day, she
became paler and thinner, more disheartened
and more fatally prostrated.

Everyone was very kind. She had
plenty of visitors. Indeed, she had too
many visitors. But it was not Mrs.
Gainsborough's aim to exclude visitors.
Mrs. Gainsborough invited the greatest
publicity for her cousin's slow decline.
So Lily's girl-friends came to see her, to
chat with her, and to try to cheer her.

The rector's ^\ife and other good souls of
the neighbourhood came, and brought her
presents of all sorts of little dainties to
tempt her appetite. Sometimes lie was
equal to seeing them, and sometimes not.
If she could see them, lie exerted herself
to be at her best, at any rate to keep in
subjection the senseless tears that were
always ready to flow for nothing ; and she
would thank them for the presents, and
for coming to see her, and promise to eat
what they brought — if she could. But it
was seldom that anything got eaten.
Food in any shape had become an impossibility
to her. Among other people,
Sir Robert called with his wife.
Saying good-bye to him, Lily fairly broke
down.

I shall never ride to hounds again,
Sir Robert,' she said, with her hand on

Lis, and then, quickly turning away, burst
into a flood of tears. The bluff baronet
Alas scarcely master of himself when
parting with Mrs. Gainsborough in the
hall.

Then one day Maud Gainsborough had
a fright.

Lily ran rather rapidly upstairs and
fell down in a dead faint.

For an hour or two Mrs. Gainsborough
believed this was the end. And she did
not want the end just yet. She had one
or two things to do before the end came.
However, after about an 
the girl revived a little. And the
widow, for a day or two, diminished her
dose.

But she took warning from the alarm,
and delayed her last precautions no
longer.

She insisted on a consultation.
So Dr. Gregg brought a friend with
him, and they spent more than an hour
with Lily. Lily was a trifle better that
day. Dr. Gregg insisted on the affection
of the heart, and the stethoscope, on
being used, revealed a distinct murmur.
That was no great wonder, considering the
girl's atomic condition. So the murmur
passed for a valvular murmur, and the
doctor's colleague corroborated his opinion
of heart complaint. In fact, the two
medical men were much agreed about the
whole case. It mattered little to Maud
Gainsborough whether they were so or
not. She had had her consultation, and
she would take care to talk about it.

The doctors were perfectly welcome to
try any new treatment and prescriptions.
She felt no anxiety about their ability to

neutralize the effect of judiciously administered
aconite.

When lie went upstairs to Lily, after
they had left, the girl asked eagerly,

What did the doctors say, Maud ?'

They give us no hope, dear.'

Oh ! Maud,' exclaimed the girl, with
despair.

After a few seconds she added, ' It is an
awful thing to have to die, Maud.'

Well, you must be resigned, dear,'
replied the widow, in a mechanical sort of
tone.

I do try to be resigned,' said the girl,
gently. 'But it is not so easy as you
seem to think. And, do you know, Maud,
you say things to one awfully cruelly
sometimes.'

In the evening Maud Gainsborough said
to herself,

Now we have done with the consultation,
the next thing is to write to Mr.
Tanner.'

So she wrote to Mr. Tanner, a honos
rambling letter, that contained an enormous
number of words, and yet said nothing
at all : a letter full of harrowing descriptions
of Maud's own heart-broken consternation
and dismay at the discovery of the terribly
serious condition of her ' poor darling,'
and at the impossibility of hoping any
longer ' even against hope.' Cleverly
mingled with all these lamentations were
scraps of what the doctors had said, and
many confused explanations of why Maud
had not written sooner, ' all along she had
been believing, trusting, praying that the
case might not be really so very serious,'
and ever so much more of the same sort.
About the only thing really clear in this

VOL. III. M

beautiful epistle was, that if either Mr. or
Mrs. Tanner wished to see Lily Hardwick
alive, they must come down to Lynham at
once.

Upon Lily Hardwick 's guardian and his
wife the letter fell like a thunderbolt.

I can't go to see her, Tom,' said Mrs.
Tanner, when her husband read the widow's
letter aloud. ' I'm sure it would break my
heart. But do you go.'

Yes. Mr. Tanner would go. There
was no doubt about that. And he would
make Mrs. Gainsborough know what he
thought. Very angry indeed was Mr.
Tanner.

And the next day Mr. Tanner came
down to Lynham. Lily was much worse
than she had been when the medical men
had seen her ; in fact, she was worse than
Mrs. Gainsborough meant her to be on the

occasion of Mr. Tanner's visit. And Mr.
Tanner was immensely shocked, as well he
might be. Lily seemed scarcely to know
what was going on, and bade her guardian
good-bye in a sort of semi-conscious dream,
but she sent her love to Mrs. Tanner,
and begged him to thank her for all her
kindness.

Altogether a very unpleasant business
was this visit of Mr. Tanner's. Mr. Tanner
asked no end of questions, and was disposed
to be terribly angry. He told Mrs. Gainsborough
point-blank that it was a disgraceful
thing that his ward bad been suffered
to become so ill without his having known
anything at all about it : and he was very
imperfectly pacified by the widow's assurance
that she had had no suspicion of the
seriousness of her cousin's condition until
after the consultation that took place a

m2

few days before. Also Mrs. Gainsborough
asserted that she had employed the best
medical skill available in the neighbourhood.
And she had the courage to suggest
that, if Mr. Tanner was dissatisfied, he
should himself send down some celebrated
man from London. Her heart flinched as
she made the proposition, for she could see
that Mr. Tanner was half inclined to act
upon it. But in the end he left, dissatisfied
enough, but satisfied that everything
that could be done for the girl had been
done, and insisting only on hearing from
Mrs. Gainsborough every day.

Very thankful was Maud Gainsborough
to see him depart.

If I had let him know that Lily was
ill as soon as he would have liked, I
should never have been able to finish
this at all,' she said to herself. 'Now

I have done with everything but the
finale.'

Already Lily was confined to her room :
in a day or two more, to her bed.

She lay now for hours together, like a
log, motionless, and apparently incapable
of moving. Existence seemed to have
reached the lowest point at which its continuation
Alas possible : and her life hung
by a thread. The widow had reduced her
doses, one of those which the girl had not
so long before been taking twice a day
would have proved fatal now. Visitors
still came to see her, and 'Mrs. Gainsborough
from time to time admitted one
of them, that people might see for themselves
what was ofoiiifr on, but more often
excused even herself from seeing them.
Lily seemed scarcely to notice them, and
was often apparently unconscious of their

presence. Now and then she rallied a
little, generally only to complain piteously
of insufferable pain or exhaustion. But
at other times she would have Maud
Gainsborough summoned, and — utterly
unsuspecting of the truth — throw herself
into her arms, clinging with wild yearning
and clasping with weak arms the last
thing left within her reach, in a world
fast slipping away from her grasp.

Maud Gainsborough endured the embraces
and endearments, and responded
with kisses to the feeble, fondling words.
To do so was politic. She no longer
shrank from such scenes, though they
bored her enormously. The long weeks
employed in the merciless murder of the
girl had hardened her, and made her
completely callous to what she was doing.
She suffered no longer from shocks and

revulsion. She had no need now to go
down on the beach, and to walk up and
down, up and down, by the sea because
she could not rest. If she went out, it was
simply because being in the house with
her sick cousin bored her.

Unexpectedly one afternoon Lily began
to talk about Warrington. She had been
asking questions about all the people who
had recently been to see her or to inquire
after her, and then she said,

'And Mr. Warrington, he has never
been ?'

He is in town, you know.'

I know. But he has never sent any
message ?'

No.'

Lily heaved a sigh.

Maud,' she said, ' I should like to see
Mr. Warrington. Now that I am going

to die, it cannot much matter what passed
between us. And perhaps I was too hard
on him. I wish I could see him, I should
like to tell him that I am still his friend.
Last time I parted from him, I only bowed
and would not speak. I should like it
better if we could part friends.'

Maud Gainsborough made some remark
about the exceeding unlikelihood of a
visit from Warrington, who, in the first
place, was in town, and whom, in the
second place, Lily had herself chosen to
cut.

I know, Maud,' said the girl. 'But if
he knew how ill I am : and if he knew
that I wished to see him, I think he would
come.'

And presently she went on,

He might come even yet, Maud. If
he does, you will let him see me, won't

you, however ill I am ? Even if he has
to wait a whole day, you will make him
wait. Maud, I loved him so ! If he
comes, you ivill let me see him — you will
keep him here till I can see him ? You
promise me, Maud.'

Yes, I promise it, if you wish it.'
The girl lifted up her pale lips and
kissed her.

If Mrs. Gainsborough had been superstitious,
she might have imagined the sick
girl inspired with some presentiment of
coming events, for it was the very day
after this that "Warrington called. But
how Maud kept her promise is known.

CHAPTER X.

Maud Gainsborough sat musing.

She had reached a point where she
might now any day destroy her cousin
without raising a shadow of a suspicion.
And Dr. Gregg would sign the certificate
without a moment's hesitation.

And she was going to do it.

Would a day ever come when, with
her head resting on Frank Warrington's
breast, she would be able proudly to confide
to him what she had gone through,
what she had dared, to win him ? Would

he understand her, appreciate the measurelessness
of her passion, the infatuation of
her devotion ?

The widow feared he would not. It
was an unsatisfactory confession to make
to herself that the man for whom a
woman could have dared all this was a
man from whom she could never venture
to ask the meed of her measureless love.
But — men have no poetry. They are
so simple-minded. They never see how
circumstances modify acts, and hastily call
everything by the first name that comes
to hand.

Of course, at present Frank Warrington
was in love with the little fool upstairs
and would call what Maud had done —
murder.

But, perhaps, by-and-by

No. Maud would not deceive herself.

It would never do to tell Frank Warrington.
Lie had gauged his character, and
there was not poetry enough in it to
understand a tragedy. All the perils she
had boldly faced, all the horrors she had
waded through, all the courage she had
found, all the nerve, and skill, and intelligence
she had displayed, they must
all be for ever buried in the depth of
her own breast — never confessed to the
man for whom she had staked everything.


And these men are the things we
love, and cannot help ourselves,' quoth
Maud.

But she took a resolution. To-morrow
Lily should be much worse, and tomorrow
night should die.

To-morrow ! — And the game was lost
already.

For that same morning "Warrington
received a letter. Eustace had left the
hospital, and the brothers were both of
them at Twickenham. Coming down to
breakfast, Warring-ton found amongst the
letters awaiting him one from Lynham, ina
lady's handwriting entirely unknown to
him.

Within it was a short note in another
hand, written with a pencil.

Dear Mr. Warrington,

You must forgive this scrawl,
which I write in bed with a pencil, because
my cousin would not like me to write.
But Miss Barrington kindly promises to
post this for me. I am very ill, and they
tell me I must die, and I should so like
to see you, to beg your pardon, if I have
not always behaved to you as I should,

and to part friends. I spoke to Maud
only the day before yesterday about your
coming, and she promised me solemnly
that, if by any chance you called, you
should certainly see me. Do please come.
Ever your faithful friend,

Lily Hard wick.

Wednesday afternoon.'

The letter was indeed a scrawl, a sad
scrawl, written with a trembling hand that
seemed to have found a difficulty in holding
the pencil.

Warrington read it twice : and then his
eyes fixed on the date : ' Wednesday afternoon.'


Presumably Miss Barrington — he had
met her in the hunting-field — had in the
course of Thursday gone to Lynhurst, and
got his address from the housekeeper, and

posted the letter in Lynham for the London
evening post. The postmark agreed with
that.

But it was on Tuesday that he went
down to Lynham, and Lily Hardwick,
meriting on Wednesday, spoke of a promise
given her ' the day before yesterday.' That
was on Monday. Then, on Monday Mrs.
Gainsborough gave her a solemn promise
that, if by any chance Warrington came
to call, he should certainly see her. On
Tuesday Warrington did call, and certainly
did not see her. And on Wednesday she
wrote, plainly ignorant of his having called,
Do come.'

That he would certainly do. But the
dates seemed to be all contradictions.

While he still stood with the letter in
his hand, Essie came into the breakfast-room.


Good-morning, Frank,' she said ; and
then, in another tone, ' Why ! what is the
matter?'

Read,' said Warrington, handing her
the letter.

^ But when was this written T asked
Essie, turning the letter about. ' Wednesday.
Then — then, the day before
yesterday — that is Monday.'

She looked up at Warrington, and their
eyes met in a look of reciprocal interrogation.


'You will go, Frank?'

Certainly.'

At breakfast, Warrington mentioned
that unanticipated business would take
him away for the day. He was taciturn
and preoccupied.

When breakfast was over, Essie seized
an opportunity to speak to him.

I have been thinking of nothing but
that letter, Frank,' she said. ' It is most
mysterious. Did Mrs. Gainsborough, on
Monday, promise Lily that she should
see you, but, when you came, change her
mind?'

^ After her promise? And what for?'

Well, Frank, I have misgivings,' observed
Essie. ' Suppose Mrs. Gainsborough
has not chosen that you should see Lily ?
Then you go down again to-day. And she
has given orders, perhaps, that you are not
to be admitted. AYhat are you going todo
then ?'

'But all this is most unlikely,' retorted
Warrington.

But — if it happens,' insisted Essie.
'Listen, Frank. Last time you went
down you wished that you had taken me
with you. This time will you take my

VOL. III. N

advice ? — show that letter to Uncle
Tony.'

'To Mr. Gainsborough? What for?'
demanded Warrington, who saw no reason
for the proposition.

Uncle Tony knows Mrs. Gainsborough
better than you do, and he will read
between the lines.'

Warrington demurred.

It would be necessary to tell him all
that history, you see,' he objected.

I will tell him that, or as much as he
will need to know. You can have no
reason for hesitating to put every confidence
in Uncle Tony. Frank, be persuaded.'


But this is probably merely some
mistake, you know. You see,' — he spoke
with pain — * how ill Miss Hardwick is.'

That is a mere presumption of yours.

Think, Frank, if I should be right, what
that means ; Lily will never see you.'

And what difference will showing the
letter to Mr. Gainsborough make ?'

'You show him the letter, and see.'

"Warrington yielded to her persuasion at
last, saying,

'Go and speak to Mr. Gainsborough
then while I see my brother.'

When he returned downstairs, Essie
and Anthony Gainsborough were in the
library.

/ ' Where is this letter of yours, Warrington
?' asked Anthony Gainsborough. ' May
I see it ?'

He had, as usual, his pipe in his mouth,
which he always smoked after breakfast,
but there was a shadow on his face, an
expression of cloudy displeasure and of
profound mistrust that contrasted so

N 2

strangely with his invariably genial, open
mien that Warrington regarded him with
unconcealed surprise.

Read, by all means,' he said, offering
the letter.

And, at the same time, he looked interrogatively
at Essie, who sat by the
table, as if he would say, ' What does this
mean?'

Essie, for answer, only shook her head ;
which explained nothing.

As Anthony Gainsborough read the
letter the shadow on his face deepened.

'What is your explanation of this letter,
Warrington?' he asked, in a short,
hard voice, still holding the note in his
hand.

Essie has told you the facts, I believe.
I imagine that the letter simply contains
some mistake. Miss Hardwick is evidently

very ill, and I conceive that she
has confused the days.'

^ It is possible,' said Anthony Gainsborough,
in a sceptical tone, and continued
: ^ only, why should Mrs. gainsborough
not like Miss Hardwick to write
to you ?*

^ I don't know. Unless it was because
she was afraid of Miss Hardwick's over-exerting
herself.'

That does not explain her having
recourse to the assistance of a friend to
post her letter,' remarked Anthony Gainsborough,
coolly.

Then suddenly turning he said, angrily,

Mark you, Warrington, if that woman
promised the girl on Monday that you
should see her if you came, and when you
came, on Tuesday, broke her word — broke
a promise solemnly given to a dying girl

that she should see her lover : that was a
wickedly cruel thing — and I shall know
what she meant by it.'

How strange the words sounded, and
how strange their harsh, almost savage
tone from the lips of this quiet, good-natured,
easy-tempered man ! Warrington
and Essie exchanged a look of surprise,
as well they might, and each of them
secretly asked themselves what all this
could mean.

I think it more likely that there has
been some mistake,' said Warrington.

Let us hope so. Only if that woman
has broken a promise solemnly given to a
dying girl that she should see her lover ;
that is a wickedly cruel thing ; and I shall
know what she means by it.'

He spoke very quietly this time, in his
ordinary even voice, but with a certain

firm determination that had a most ominous
rino\

Essie sat silent, her eyes going from one
of the men to another.

1 don't think that Mrs. Gainsborough
is the sort of woman to do a thing like that,
you know,' observed Warrington.

What have you seen of her character T
asked Mr. Gainsborough.

Well — something.'

What she has chosen to show you,'
said Anthony Gainsborough, in a brusque,
harsh voice, most unlike his ordinary tone.
The woman's a liar. Oh ! I know her.
She's a liar.'

He was walking up and down the room
slowly, as he often did whilst he was
smoking. Presently he asked,

Of course you are going down ?'

'At once.'

And you will insist upon seeing Miss
Hardwick ?'

I shall attempt to do so.'

Yes,' said Anthony Gainsborough.
And if Mrs. Gainsborough refuses to let
you see her ' — he stopped in his walk and
turned towards Warrington — 'you telegraph
on the spot to me. Til make her
let you see Miss Hardwick.'

He went on to the end of the room, and
there stopped again.

I know this woman better than you do,
Warrington,' he said, quietly. ' But I
don't want to prejudice anyone. I shall
be very happy to learn that your explanation
is the right one ; that there is simply
some mistake. It is just possible. But if
Mrs. Gainsborough refuses to let you see
Miss Hardwick — you telegraph to me.
Don't insist. Don't waste your time.

Don't do anything. Tarn straight from
the door and go to the telegraph-office.
Telegraph to me, 'refused," and I'll make
Mrs. Gainsborough let you see the girl.
And I'll know what she means by refusing
you, too. Now, don't let me keep you.
Be oiF. And I hope you'll find your ladylove
better than you anticipate. If you
do, give her my kind regards. She is a
charming girl.'

And he gave Warrington his great hand,
and shook hands with him heartily.

In the hall Warrington said to Essie,

'You were right, Essie.'

I mostly am, Frank,' replied Essie.

When he was gone, Essie returned to
her uncle. He was still smoking in the
library.

It is my opinion. Uncle Tony, that you
would have done better if you had gone

down with Frank. I don't believe that
there is any mistake at all. Lily very
seldom made mistakes. Mrs. Gainsborough
simply does not want Frank to see
her.'

^ On what do you ground that ?' asked
her uncle.

On the fact that Lily was evidently
not allowed to write to him. That must
mean something, and may mean anything.'


You are quite right.'

He was filling another pipe. That was
unusual. After his one pipe after breakfast
he generally went about his day's
work.

That woman has had too much money
to spend lately,' he remarked, lighting the
pipe. ' And I daresay she has been getting
too much of her own way. I know

her. Still I don't wish to prejudge the
matter. eye will hope for the best. It
may be a mistake.'

The hours of the morning passed quietly.

Anthony Gainsborough had been going
into town, but did not go. All the forenoon
he strolled about the house, and the
lawn in front of the house.

About twelve, Essie found that an order
had been given for the dog cart to be got
out, and to be kept standing in readiness
to start at any minute. Violet was in the
drawing-room, playing to Eustace. Essie
went out in the garden to get some
flowers.

Presently her uncle came to her.

How long will it take you to get ready
to go out ?' he asked.

To go where ?'

To go anywhere.'

A few minutes only. I have only to
put on my hat and gloves.'

^ Get ready, then.'

Essie went in and put on her hat, and
put her gloves in her pocket, and returned
to her flowers. When she came in again
from the garden, Anthony Gainsborough
was in the hall.

'Ah, you have your hat on. That is
right,' he said. ' I have been thinking.
And, if I have to go to Lynham, I may
take you with me. I may want you
there.'

As you wish, uncle.'

What could he want her for ?

She went into the breakfast-room to
arrange her flowers. In the midst of her
task, the housekeeper came in.

^ Can I speak to you, miss ?'

Certainly, Mrs. Simpson.'

What has happened, miss, if I may be
so bold as to ask?'

'Why?'

Mr. Warrington (I don't know whether
you know it) is gone down to Lynham.
John, who went with him to the railway-station,
heard him ask for his ticket. I
suppose he's going to see Mrs. Gainsborough,
miss, isn't he?'

'Well, you see, you know, Mrs. Simpson,'
observed Essie, evasively.

But has anything happened down there,
miss ?'

Nothing that I know of

But ' — in a lower voice — ' is Mr. gainsborough
o'oino; down, miss ?'

Perhaps.'

You are going with him, miss ?'

Perhaps : if he goes. Why?'

Well, miss, if there's anything

wrong down there, this time you'll see.'

See what ?'

What you will see, miss.'

And the old woman left with a knowing
nod.

What did she mean ?

A quarter-to two.

Anthony Gainsborough, still strolling
about the jDlace, crossed Essie coming out
of the breakfast-room.

^ Keep about ; be in the hall, or in the
drawing-room,' he said.

And he went out to walk up and down
before the house. The dog-cart had been
brought round, and stood by the front-door.


Suddenly a shout like a clap of thunder
echoed through the hall into the drawing-room.


Essie !'

Essie rushed into the hall. Anthony
Gainsborough was already in the dog-cart.
He had met the boy with the telegram
in the drive. Essie ran down the steps,
and sprang up beside him. She was
hardly in her seat before he put the
horse into a gallop with a sharp cut of his
whip.

The dog-cart swung out of the gate,
and then dashed along the road towards
Subito.

If we are lucky, we shall catch the
express,' said Anthony Gainsborough, at
the same time pushing a telegram into her
hands.

It contained one word only, ' Refused.'

Essie thought of the old housekeeper,
and her remark, ' You'll see, miss — what
you will see.'

The old woman was right. She was

going to see what sort of thing is ' the
wrath of the dove,' the awful anger of a
tender-hearted man.

CHAPTER XI.

Tie windows of Lily's room stood open.
A soft breeze from seawards stole in
through them, cool and fresh, with the
scent of the waves. Outside there was
brilliant sunshine. The September day-was
hot. But this side of the cottage
stood in the shade.

In her bed the poisoned girl lay motionless,
with her eyelids closed, to all appearance
unconscious. Only her breast
heaved irregularly as she laboured for
breath. Her thin arms were drawn away''

VOL. III. o

from her body a little to the right and
left. The doctor had put them so, to
make her breathing more easy. Her head
was bent on one side. The sheets were
hardly more white than her wasted face
and cheeks, but her beautiful hair lay
tumbled in disorder on her pillow, and
the long fringes of her eyelashes, and
the two rows of perfectly even, pearly
teeth between her colourless lips, contrasted
with her deathlike appearance —
young womanhood's sweetest freshness,
with the last stage of decay.

The simple, tasteful room was a little in
disorder, and unlike what it used to be.
It was a long time since she was able to
attend to it, and all that Maud Gainsborough
or the servants had done wanted
the grace of her touch. There were a few
flowers on the table by the bed. She

loved the flowers, and had asked for them
only this morning; ; but before they came
she was too ill to see them — or they would
not have remained so ill-assorted as they
were. Beside them lay a little book of
devotions.

Dr. Gregg stood by the bed looking on.
Looking on was the only thing left that
could be done.

And a little behind him, pretending to
be watching, but really with averted eyes,
looking at the sunshine out of doors, was
Maud Gainsborough, sitting sideways in
her chair, with her handkerchief pressed
against her lips. She was pale, and her
face bore an expression of weariness, but
there was a strange gleam of living light
in the depths of her eyes, and her handsome
face, haggard as it was, had a weird,
unnatural beauty, such as might have

o2

served for the portrait of a sorceress of
antiquity, broken by the exhaustion of
some ghastly rite. In the pocket of her
dress she had in a tiny phial a few last
drops of poison, enough, in fact, to
destroy three or four stalwart lives. All
the rest she had this morning thrown away,
saving the contents of the bottle in the
old escritoire downstairs.

She is sinking,' said the doctor.

Maud Gainsborough wonders whether
that is really so. It might be. This
mornings dose might, in the girl's
weak condition, be final, without the
other one she proposes to give in the
evening.

You can do nothing, doctor ?' she
asked.

nothing. She is sinking. You should
telegraph for her friends, Mrs. Gainsborough,

if there are any whom you wish
her to see.'

There would be no one to telegraph to
but her guardian ; he came to see her
last week, and bade her good-bye.'

Rising, she came to the bed, and, bending
over the girl, kissed her on her
forehead.

My poor darling ! So young, doctor
! She is only twenty. This is very
terrible.'

There were real tears in her eyes.
The last drop — it would be an awesome
deed to give that : and the hours were
speeding towards it ; and she wan a
little unnerved. Now, too, in the last
extremity of the poor, shattered life, some
of the pity for the girl which she had felt
at first had returned.

The doctor left, and Maud Gainsborough

moved to the window seat. It
would have been a relief to her to leave
the room, but appearances had to be
considered. So she sat by the window,
where she could not see the pale girl
in her bed, and where she could not
herself be seen by anyone coming to the
house.

Downstairs the housemaid Ann was
turning away all visitors and messages of
inquiry with the same answer :

Mrs. Gainsborough cannot see anyone.
Miss Hardwick is dying.'

Ann had been crying.

Towards one Mrs. Gainsborough came
downstairs. The cook took her place fora
time, with instructions immediately
to summon her mistress if Miss Hardwick
should be any worse. She would not
be any worse, Maud knew very well.

Already, on the contrary, she was breathing
a trifle more easily. The first fierce
effects of the virulent but transitory
poison were passing off. By-and-by, towards
the end of the afternoon, Lily
would open her eyes, and become conscious.
In the evening she would be
able to take something — and, an hour or
two after that, she would be out of the
reach of everything in this world forevermore.


Well ! What must be, must be !'

So Maud went downstairs and sat in
the dining-room and watched Ann laying
luncheon.

Another knock. Ann went to answer
it, leaving the dining-room door open
behind her.

Mrs. Gainsborough bent her ear to catch,
if she could, the voice of the visitor.

Suddenly she started. The voice was
Warrington's !

Is Mrs. Gainsborough at home ?' he
asked.

Mrs. Gainsborough cannot see anyone,
sir. — Miss Hardwick is dying.'

I must see Mrs. Gainsborough.'

He spoke with authority, and the
words reached Maud in the dining-room
clearly.

Mrs. Gainsborough has given orders
that she cannot see anyone, sir,' replied
the servant.

'• Take her my card. Tell her that I
must see her. She knows that it is important.
I will wait here.'

'What can he have come again for?'
thought Maud to herself. 'And what does
he mean by saying I know?'

Then the servant came in with the message,

and at a sign from Maud closed the
door behind her.

I can see no one, Ann. You must tell
Mr. Warrington that Miss Hardwick is
dying, and that I can see no one.'

The servant left. "Would she succeed
in getting rid of Warrington ?

Ann returned.

^ Is he gone, Ann ?'

Yes, ma'am.'

'What did he say?'

Nothing, ma'am. He just turned and
walked away.'

Mrs. Gainsborough drew a long breath
of relief. The widow was not the first
woman who has drawn a sigh of relief on
having finally succeeded in compassing
her own destruction, nor will she be the
last.

After luncheon, she again went upstairs,

and released the cook. When the cook
was gone, she went to the bedside, and
regarded Lily closely. She was not so
much better as Mrs. Gainsborough had
expected to find her at the end of the
hour-and-a-half that she had been downstairs.
The effect of her morning dose
was passing off very slowly. The widow
felt her pulse, and listened attentively to
her breathing. That last dose must have
come very near being fatal. Well, the
next would be more certainly so : a good
thing. It had been a horrible business,
and had lasted a terrible time.

Downstairs the inquiries still continued.
About half-past four Lily began to be a
little restless. The doctor was to call
again about five, or as soon as he could
afterwards. How would Lily be when he
came ? Then the cook came up, and

urged her mistress to go downstairs and
to have a cup of tea quietly.

Do, ma'am, now ; you're looking quite
worn out.'

So Maud went downstairs, and had tea
brought her in the dining-room. Afterwards
she opened her work-basket, and
began sorting out some silks for a piece
of fancy work.

To-morrow ! only tomorrow, all her
dreams would be realised : the fifteen
thousand a-year, and everything ! She
could not help thinking of it. To-morrow
only tomorrow ! This had been a
gruesome business with her cousin, and
she had run some awful risks. But the
prize ! And now she had only to wait till
tomorrow.

Another knock. More inquiries. With
the silk in her hand, the widow suddenly

looks up and listens. Surely that is a
man's step in the hall.

Ah, the doctor, of course. He has come
a little before his time. That is a very-good
thing. Every half-hour Lily will be
better just at present. And the sooner
the doctor sees her the less difference
he will find in her condition since the
morning.

The door opened and Ann came in.

Miss Essie Chesterfield, if you please,
ma'am, and Mr. Anthony Gainsborough.'

Every drop of blood in Maud gainsborough's
body rushed to her heart.

Who ?' she gasped, catching her breath
and staggering up from her seat as if she
would fall.

Miss Essie Chesterfield and Mr. Anthony
Gainsborough.'

Anthony Gainsborough ! Anthony

Gainsborough !' replied Maud, in herself
utterly unnerved, and instantly seized
with some inconceivable alarm. ' What
can Anthony be come about? What on
earth is this ? What can have brought
him here, and of all days to-day ?'

You must tell them that I cannot see
them, Ann,' she answered, nervously turning
her back to the servant.

I've told them so, ma'am,' said Ann.

'Then tell them again. I cannot see
anyone. Where are they — at the door?'

They are in the drawing-room, ma'am.'

'In the drawing-room ! But I told you
to let no one in.'

I didn't let them in, ma'am. The
gentleman asked, "Is Mrs. Gainsborough
at home?" and I said, "Yes, sir." And
then, before I had time to say any more,
he walked straight in and went into the

drawing-room, and the young lady after
him. And then, when I followed him
and said you could not see anyone, ma'am,
all he said was, " Go and tell your mistress
that Miss Essie Chesterfield and Mr.
Anthony Gainsborough are here'' '

Well, then, you must go and tell them
again that I cannot see them.'

The servant left.

The instant the door closed behind her
Maud Gainsborough, leaning back against
the table, pressed both her hands on her
heart.

What on earth was it that was the matter
with her ? Fear. Yes, abject, horrible
fear ! It was cowardly, miserable, but it
was so. She was faint with ghastly, deadly
fear. The one man in the whole wide
world whose very name made her shudder,
what was he come for to-day? What

could have brought him at this moment ?
She believed she saw it all. Something:
had transpired ; somebody had suspected
her, and somehow the thing had reached
Anthony Gainsborough. If so, there was
not a hope left for her. Oh, God in
heaven !

CHAPTER XII.

Meanwhile the housemaid went to the
drawing-room.

Anthony Gainsborough had sat down.
He had his elbow on the table at his side,
and had crossed his legs. Essie stood by
the window, looking at the lawn.

If you please, sir, Mrs. Gainsborough
is very sorry, but she cannot see anyone.'

You tell your mistress, my girl, that if
she does not come at once to see me, 1
shall come to see her,' replied Anthony
Gainsborough, looking at the maid without
the least concern.

And Ann departed, to take the message
to her mistress.

Faint with terror, and pallid as death
Maud heard it, and told the girl to leave
her. Then she dropped into the nearest
chair, and laid her head down on the
table ; but only to start up again the next
minute.

What on earth was she to do ?

In vain she cast about her for some
loophole of escape. She could find none.
Must she really go and face this awful
man ? And he perhaps had discovered
what she had been doing? The tears
came into her eyes for very terror.

Well, at any rate, the tears might help
her.

And, putting her handkerchief to her
eyes, she went to the drawing-room.

What must be, must be !

VOL. III. p

Anthony Gainsborough had risen and
stood by the hearth. Essie was still at
the window. Making her a slight bow,
Maud Gainsborough went at once towards
her brother-in-law, and feigned to take no
notice of the fact that he did not offer his
hand.

Oh, Anthony,' she began, sinking into
a chair, with a sob, ^I — I am in such
trouble ; my poor cousin is dying.'

One look in Anthony Gainsborough's
face had sufficed to assure her that her
very worst suspicions might, in all likelihood,
be true. She was quivering from
head to foot with abject terror, and sobbing
like a child. It looked altogether
very like wild grief, and it was wild
fear.

'Miss Hardwick is dying?' demanded
Anthony Gainsborough, in a cold hard
voice.

Oh, yes,' sobbed the widow ; ' so the
doctor says.'

Do you know why I have come ?' asked
Anthony Gainsborough.

He spoke coldly, calmly; only in his
voice there was an undertone, ominous,
menacing, of terrific determination. Even
Essie, standing by the window, but no
longer regarding the flowers, looked
round.

For an instant the widow raised her
eyes, but only to cover her face again in
her handkerchief The room was turning
round her. She could think distinctly of
nothing.

When sou came to live here,' said
Anthony Gainsborough, in the same tone,
I told you not to use the liberty I left
you, to be guilty of any more heartlessness.
Do you remember?'

Maud answered nothing. She had
buried her face on the back of the chair.
To herself she was saying, ' He knows
everything ! He knows everything ! Oh,
my God !'

A few days ago continued Anthony
Gainsborough, 'you solemnly promised
your cousin that, if Mr. Warrington came
to see her, she should see him.'

Maud started. How on earth had he
discovered that ? There had been no one
with herself and Lily when the promise
had been given. And she had only yesterday
asked Lily whether she had talked
to anyone about it, and Lily had said,
'No.' And Lily spoke the truth. Had
the man second-sight ? And what was
he coming to from this beginning ?

'You promised your cousin that, if Mr.
Warrington called, she certainly should

see him,' he repeated, in the same even,
cain voice.

'But who told you?' asked the widow,
beginning to think that she must be losing
her wits.

Instead of answering, Anthony Gainsborough
demanded,

Ashen Mr. Warrington called on Tuesday,
why did you break the promise you
had given ?'

She was not well enough to see him.'

She saw other people ; she saw Miss
Barrington.'

There was no chancre in his voice : it
was the same with which he had spoken
throughout, soft, calm, perfectly undisturbed,
but with a ring of quiet resolution
that was more disconcerting.

As for the widow, she seemed to herself
to have drifted into a world of sorcery.

This man knew everything. If the next
thing he asked for was the bottle of aconite
in her pocket, she would not be much more
surprised than she was abbacy.

Once more he was simply repeating his
question, in the same quietly inexorable
voice,

'You solemnly promised this dying girl
that she should see her lover if he came.
He came, and you broke your word.
What did you mean by it ?'

Slowly the truth was dawning on Maud.
Anthony Gainsborough had come down
furiously angry because she had not let her
cousin see her lover. How he had found
it out, God knew. But of all the rest he
had no suspicion.

And she ventured to answer.

She meant nothing by it. Only Lily
was so ill. The promise was not a solemn

promise. The promise had only been
given the girl because she was so ill:
to calm her. To keep her from exciting
herself. She could not have borne to see
Mr. Warrington. It would have been too
much for lier. True, she had seen Miss
Barrington : that did not excite her.
What had been done, had been done only
out of kindness and consideration for the
girl's health.

All this, and much more of the same
sort, Maud said ; growing a little voluble
as she ran on, and perceived how plausible
what she was saying sounded.

Only, at the end, Anthony Gainsborough
answered,

Very good. You know, I know you
do not speak the truth. So, now that
you have finished with all you wish to
say, will you please to answer me what

you meant by breaking your promise ?'
'I have told you the truth, and T
don't know what more you want to know,'
answered the widow, a little shortly.

She might have said, with more truth,
that she did not care what he wanted
to know. She certainly was not going
to tell him that she was herself in love
with Warrington, and resolved that he and
Lily should not meet. Anthony Gainsborough
would be in a passion, of course.
He would turn her out of the cottage, and
refuse to make her any farther allowance.
And he might. A deal all that wo uld matter
to her tomorrow ! And tomorrow Lily
should be dead. Dead without a doubt ;
dead, without a shadow of pity ; now that
she had been bothered about her like
this. She, Maud, would have her revenge
for it. It was easy enough. And as for

Anthony Gainsborough, since he knew
nothing at all of all she feared, he might
stay and scold her as long as he pleased.
He might stay all night : and, if he
liked, take Lily the glass of milk With
the fatal drop in it, and poison her
off himself. He should, if he stayed long
enough.

It was all very fine in thought to hector
it in this fashion. But before the hearth
still stood Anthony Gainsborough, repeating,
in his inexorable voice,

'You will, however, let me know
why you broke your promise to this girl,
that she should see her lover.'

Maud tried repeating word for word
the same answer she had given before.
In vain.

Maud tried putting the same answers
into other words. In vain.

Maud tried framing other answers of
different clever kinds. In vain.

Still the cold, inexorable voice insisted
in the same words :

Why did you break the promise you
gave the girl that she should see her
lover ?'

And the widow who, when she was
groundlessly frightened, was on her
guard, now that she had emerged from
her fears, did not remark the peril into
which the cold, insisting voice was pushing
her.

At last Anthony Gainsborough seemed
to tire, and the widow was glad of it.
This ceaselessly reiterated demand hammering
at her ears was beginning to make
her stupid.

Anthony Gainsborough walked from
the hearth to the window, and looked

out at the lawn and the sky. Then he
came back.

You do not choose,' he said, ' to answer
my question with anything but excuses.
When I came down here, I
imagined that you had been simply very
cruel. You have made me suspect
that the case is graver by far. There is
only one explanation of your conduct left.
You have some reason for keeping people
from seeing Miss Hardwick. I am going
to know what it is.'

Maud Gainsborough evinced. This
was a sudden turn of affairs which
she had not contemplated, whilst framing
excuse after excuse. But though
the situation had, in an instant, taken
a much more serious aspect, she could
face the accusation, and she did.

I have no reason for keeping people

from seeing my cousin,' she said, quietly,
and cautiously too. After all, this
was not a man to trifle with. 'Numbers
of people have seen her. The
doctor will be here in a few minutes,
and will tell you so. If she should
recover consciousness, she will tell you so
herself.'

You have let whom you chose see her,
and whom you chose you have kept
away, that is to say,' replied Anthony
Gainsborough.

After a pause he added,

I shall see her myself

And after another pause,

And, after I have seen her, I shall have
the house searched.'

For a minute the widow believed everything
lost. Anthony Gainsborough's first
statement, that he would himself see her

cousin, filled her with inordinate misgiving
of what the consequences might
be ; his second, that he would search the
house, gave her a sensation of the earth
opening under her feet, and she turned
to the colour of ashes — and Essie noticed
it. But it was for a moment only. The
next instant, a revulsion, more sudden
even than her dismay, gave her a little
new assurance. The extremity of the
situation had inspired her imagination
with a device. Want of imaginative inventiveness
was not among her failings.
Now,, after all, she believed she might
save herself

Looking up, she said, firmly,

You have no authority to search my
house, Anthony ; and I shall not permit
it. There is a limit to the insults that
even I can endure.' And she rose from

her seat and confronted him. ' I will not
have my house searched

'The house is not your house, but my
house,' answered Anthony Gainsborough.
You pay me no rent, and I pay the rates
and taxes. The house is my house, and
the furniture is my furniture ; 'and I shall
search my house, and smash anything you
do not choose to unlock.'

Search, then !' said Maud, sitting down
again. Looking round, she asked, in a
petulant voice, ' Do you want to see Miss
Hard wick?'

'I am going to see her.'

Am I to come with you ?'

No. ' I prefer to go alone. Where is
she?'

In the best bed-room.'

He turned to Essie,

You will stay with Mrs. Gainsborough.

Ah, by the way, I have not introduced
you. My niece, Miss Essie Chesterfield,
Mrs. George Gainsborough.'

The two women bent their heads to
each other without moving from their
seats, and Anthony Gainsborough left the
room.

CHAPTER Xii

That was what Maud Gainsborough had
reckoned on.

It was a feeble chance. But within the
last half-hour she had passed through a
variety of mental phases so numerous, so
opposite, so rapid, and often so unexpected
that she appeared to herself to be
moving in a dream. Only half-an-hour
since in the dining-room she was tasting
the quiet security of a certain triumph, of
a safe release, and, since then, there had
succeeded fear, fear so abject, hope, desperation,
relief, stupefaction, agony, security,

desperation, courage, new fears,
new desperation, and sudden reassurance,
revulsion upon revulsion, till she hardly
knew whether her judgment was speaking
her the truth or not : only that she believed
she saw a chance of evasion, and
was going to avail herself of it.

The plan had burst upon her in a moment,
at the very instant when she cowered
under the conviction that everything was
lost ; after Anthony Gainsborough said
that he would search the house.

What had suddenly struck her at that
instant was this. That should he go to
see Lily first, and commence his search
afterwards, there Avould be the moment
of his absence, during which she might
contrive an opportunity to abstract the
bottle of aconite from the drawer of the
escritoire.

VOL. III. Q

How easily, she reflected, lie might
have done that an hour earlier. How
easily have taken the bottle from its
hiding-place, have carried it down the
garden and flung it into the sea. But
half-an-hour ago and now were different
times. Then the absoluteness of her
security and of her successfulness almost
transcended belief Now it was a
question whether a perilous expedient,
whether the events of a few critical
seconds, would allow her to snatch the
only chance of escape from certain
ruin.

She was resolved to risk the attempt.


As soon as the door had fairly closed
behind her brother-in-law, she rose from
her seat. It was not possible to say how
soon Anthony Gainsborough might return,

and only prompt action could save
her.

You will excuse my writings a note,
Miss Chesterfield,' she said.

Oh, certainly.'

The widow went across the room, and,
taking her keys from her pocket, opened
the old escritoire and sat down to
write.

Essie's eyes followed her.

Unlocking a drawer Maud took out
some note-paper. Then she rose, and
going to the writing-table fetched the
ink.

Essie observed the act. Evidently
letters were usually written at the writ-unstable,
and the widow's choosing to
write at the escritoire had attracted her
attention. Maud, too, had thought of
this. But she had to risk it.

q2

Sitting down, lie began to write. When
she had done she asked, with a curl of
her lip,

Do you wish, Miss Chesterfield, to see
what I have written ?'

As I am left here to watch you I mayas
well,' replied Essie, with a coolness of
effrontery for which Maud could willingly
have boxed her ears.

Instead, however, leaning back in her
chair, she offered the note for perusal.

Essie rose and took it. It was simply a
request to the rector to pay her a ministerial
visit.

There can be no objection to your
sending that,' said Essie, returning it.

And now for the critical moment.

Mrs. Gainsborough put her handkerchief
down on her right, beside the note
she had just written, and unlocked

another drawer. She was keeping her
head cool, and her hands steady. She
wished to prevent Essie from attaching
any importance to the unlocking of the
drawers. From the drawer she took out
some envelopes. Then she lighted a
little taper. Next to find the sealing-wax.
There was none on the writings
She unlocked a drawer and
rummaged it all over. Not there. The
widow rose and opened another drawer.
As she now stood, Essie Chesterfield
could not see what she took out of the
drawers, nor indeed whether she took
anything out or not. And now. This
was the drawer containing the bottle.
She rummaged it over as she had done
the others. Now she had the bottle in
the hollow of her hand. Now it was
under her handkerchief And she locked

the drawer, and unlocked and rummaged
another, the one in which she knew the
sealing-wax to be.

Ah : here's the sealing-wax,' she said,
aloud, and sat down.

The bottle lay still under her handkerchief.
Quite casually the widow looked
round her. Essie was not regarding her.
As a fact Essie had not seen what she had
done.

Maud gave a sob, and took up her
handkerchief, pretending to wipe her eyes,
bending down over the table of the
escritoire. She had the handkerchief in
her left hand now, and the bottle in it.
As she hung her head down, she unfastened
the bosom of her dress with her
right hand, and, as she again passed her
hand before her face, let the bottle slip
into the bosom of her dress.

A full minute elapsed before she ceased
sobbing, with her head bent low, and her
hands busy nth her handkerchief, in such
a way that she believed no one could see
what she had been doing.

Then once more she wiped her eyes and
raised herself, and proceeded to seal her
letters. They might search the house
now, if they liked.

She was saved ! After all, saved ! Essie
had not turned nor spoken.

How cold the little bottle was against
her breast ! And how her heart throbbed!
The strain of the moment of peril had
almost overtaxed her. It was with an
effort that she was keeping her hand
steady whilst she proceeded to warm the
wax, holding it in the flame of the
taper.

Ah !' A sudden start — the widow

drew her hands back — too late ! — bang
down came the revolving cover of the
escritoire on her wrists.

With her step of a cat, Essie had come
behind her whilst she was holding the wax
in the flame, and, at the same instant that
the widow saw her, slammed down the
revolving lid.

It caught the widow's wrists in its
wooden jaws like the teeth of a gin,
making her give a scream of pain, in spite
of herself

Scream ! that is right, scream !' said
Essie, holding down the lid by its two
handles nth all her might ; 'they will
come all the sooner.' And, raising her
own voice, she called, ' Uncle Tony, Uncle
Tony !'

For an explanation of her conduct, she
said to the widow.

I am certain that I saw you hiding
something in your bosom.'

Quivering from head to foot, Maud
Gainsborough sat breathing heavily,
scarcely conscious in her mental agony,
of the pain in her wrists.

Essie, still leaning with all her might,
held the lid down mercilessly, and, as
Anthony Gainsborough did not come,
called again :

Uncle Tony, Uncle Tony.'

The next instant the door opened, and
Anthony Gainsborough strode into the
room.

Mrs. Gainsborough has something
hidden in her bosom,' said Essie. ' You
hold that handle, Uncle Tony, on that
side, and I will take it out.'

With an * Oh !' of desperation that rent
the air of the room in a wail of agony, the

widow dropped her forehead on the lid of
the escritoire.

And Essie, putting her hand into the
bosom of her dress, drew out the bottle
and handed it to her uncle, and took her
other hand off the lid of the escritoire.

Anthony Gainsborough held up the
bottle and read the label aloud. ' Aconite.'
Above was in letters half-an-inch long,
POISON.'

Essie saw them.

See if she has any more about her,' said
Anthony Gainsborough.

Essie searched the widow's pockets, and
drew out the little phial.

Have you any more elsewhere ?' demanded
Anthony Gainsborough.

No,' gasped the widow.

Anthony Gainsborough removed his
hands from the handle of the escritoire.

For a few seconds the widow remained
motionless. Then, releasing her arms, she
turned, and faced her foes. The edge of
the escritoire had cut her wrists, and
the blood trickled down on her hands.
Turning away, she staggered to the sofa,
and threw herself upon it with a wild cry,

Oh, my God !'

Essie had stepped back to the escritoire,
and stood leaning against it, pale and
speechless, looking from her uncle to the
widow, quivering vdih mental agony on
the sofa — from the widow to her uncle.

Anthony Gainsborough crossed the room,
and rang the bell.

'Is there a man-servant in the house?'
he demanded of the housemaid.

Yes, sir,' answered the girl, regarding
with astonishment her mistress lying on
the sofa.

^ Send Mm to me.'

When the man came, he said, quietly,

^ I want you to go at once to the police-station.
I will give you a note to take
with you. You can take my trap, which
is waiting at the gate ; and bring back the
policeman with you in it.'

And he made a step to go towards the
little writing-table.

But the widow had sprung from the
sofa, and threw herself before him on her
knees on the floor at his feet.

'No, Anthony, no, no!' she screamed.
No, for God's sake, no ! Not the police !
I'll confess, I'll confess, Anthony : I'll confess
everything. Don't send for the police !
for pity's sake.'

And she literally grovelled on the ground
before him.
^ Why not?'

'Xo, Anthony, no ! no !'

And, catching his arm, she held him
Tvith her blood-stained hands, her Httle
wrists showing already discoloured and
swollen.

Anthony ! Anthony !'

Anthony Gainsborough turned to the
man.

Go into the hall, and wait till I call
you,' he said.

Xo ! Anthony, you must not send
John ! Xot for the police,' cried the
widow, as the door closed behind the
man-servant. * Til confess, Anthony. I'll
tell you everything. Indeed I will. Only
don't give me to the police. Listen, Anthony,'
she continued, still kneeling and
clinging to his hand, as if she feared
lest he should go to the table and ^Tite.
I was tempted, I was tempted cruelly.

I'll tell you everything. I will, indeed,
Anthony.'

She let his hand go, and he folded his
arms, saying nothing, but looking down at
her with a face of stone.

With her breast heaving convulsively,
and her eyes anxiously watching his
unmoved, impenetrable face, the widow
went on, wildly, hurriedly,

If I tell you everything, Anthony,
you will spare me, won't you ? I was
tempted. Listen. I will tell you. I
will confess everything — everything truly.
Only, for God's sake, don't send for the
police. Listen — Anthony. I found out
it was quite by an accident — that there
is a great unclaimed fortune to which
I am entitled. I am telling you the
truth, indeed I am. I will show you
all the proofs, if you like. And there

is only Lily Hardwick who has a claim
to that fortune before me. And she
knows nothing about it. Only Lily,
Anthony, was between me and wealth,
wealth such as I had never, till I found
this out, dreamed of I have known
all about it ever so long : ever since
I have had Lily with me, and before
that. You understand me, Anthony,
that I have known, all the time that
Lily has been here, that she stood between
me and a great fortune, and that
if she died I should be rich, enormously
rich. And I could easily have killed her,
Anthony. But I never attempted it.
I never thought of it. And you made
dependence very bitter for me, Anthony :
indeed you did. Many a woman in my
place would have poisoned Lily long
ago. And I could have done it easily,

I assure you I could. Only I did not :
not until I was tempted. As I breathe, I
am telling the truth.

But I— I '

She stopped short ; but only for a few
seconds.

• I will tell you everything — truly — I
will indeed,' she went on, in an agonised
voice, hanging her head as a hot blush
flushed her cheek ; * I met a man I will
not name. I could not help it, Anthony.
He came here — I mean to Lynham.
And, the moment I saw him, I knew
what would happen. I knew that I
should love him. One cannot help
loving. But I wrote to you to let me go
away from here, because I did not want
to love him. And you would not let me
go. It is all as much your fault as
mine, Anthony. If you would have let

me go, none of this would have happened.
But you would not let me go. And then
it all turned out as I knew it would, and
I loved him — I love him now, passionately,
passionately !

And, Anthony ! I did it for his sake.

Listen to what I tell you : I did it for
his sake.'

She looked into his face to see if she
had touched him at all. But his face was
impassive.

'I swear to you, Anthony, that I did
this thing for that man's sake. I swear
it to you by God in heaven. Xot for
my sake, but for his sake. I would
not have done it for my own sake. I
would have remained poor. I did it
for his sake. Not that he knew of it.
I should never have told him of it. He
would not have understood me.

VOL. III. R

He is poor. Do you see ? Too poor
to marry me — and I too poor to marry
him. I do not tell you who he is. It
makes no difference who he is. But I
tell you I loved him passionately, passionately,
and if I had that fortune — he
would come to me — and love me as I love
him.

'And then, listen. This was what
tempted me. It was so easy.

Lily was ill. You know she was ill.
And she was unhappy, too.

Mr. Warrington came here, and she
fell in love with him. And he would not
notice her, and she fretted and pined for
him, and fell ill.

And I loved the man I tell you of so ;
and I wanted the money so much to offer
him, and sometimes I thought Lily would
die. I did think it. And I thought it

would be only a little sooner, or a little
later.

And she was so unhappy, too, so miserable.
She fretted and pined so ; and said
that she wished she was dead. And,
Anthony, could I help thinking, if she
were dead, how happy, how hajipy, I and
the man I loved would be ?

Anthony, was I not tempted ? You
won't send for the police? Don't you see
how I was tempted ? And that is not all.
You have not heard all. There were other
things that made it easier. Ah, Anthony,
you don't know what the temptation is
when the thing is easy. Lily was ill, and
I knew that she would only seem to get a
little worse, and a little worse. And I
happened to have the aconite — by an
accident : quite by an accident. It lay
in my way, you see. And I knew that

e2

Dr. Gregg was ignorant, and would not
suspect anything. Do you see how I was
tempted ? Was it strange that I yielded ?
Anthony, would it not have been stranger
if I had been able to resist — when it was
so easy ? And then, when I began giving
her the aconite, she was only a little worse
and a little worse : and nobody thought
anything of it. They all made it easy forme
to poison her. They did indeed, Anthony.
If they had not, I should not
have dared to go on. It was as much their
fault as mine, because they all made it
easy for me.

Do you see how I was tempted ? You
won't send for the police ? Don't you see,
I had only to give Lily just one little drop
once or twice a day. It was so simple.
And I knew that she trusted me, that she
loved me, and would never suspect anything.

If she had suspected me, Anthony,
I could not have done it. But, like all
the rest, she made it easy for me, and
tempted me. It was as much her fault as
mine. If she had not trusted me, I would
not have attempted it.

And, Anthony, I was not heartless, as
you said. I hated to see her suffer, as she
did. Indeed I did. But how could I
help it ? If I had had anything else that
I could have used, anything that would
have distressed her less, I would gladly
have used it, but I had nothing. It was
not my wish that the stuff should make
her suffer. I swear to you, Anthony, that
it went to my heart to see how the aconite
tortured her. And I had to steel myself
to give it her, and not to give way to my
feelings, or I could not have gone on. I
have not been heartless, Anthony.

And, after all, I have done nothing.
Lily has had some pain, but even now she
will probably recover. And if she recovers,
as she probably will, what have I
done that you should want to be cruel,
and to have me punished ?

*And there is another thing. It was
not only so easy, but, you see, it seemed
to matter so little. Lily had no father, nor
mother, nor sisters, nor brothers, nor relations
of any kind ; no one but me belonging
to her in all the whole world. If she
had had friends and relations, I would
not have done it ; Anthony, I vow to you
I would not. I would have hesitated to
pain them by her death. But, you see,
she was all alone, without any friends ;
quite alone. And, when I thought of my
great love, it seemed so little to take one
life, only one — one little, lonely life that

nobody cared about. Anthony, see how
I was tempted ! You won't send for the
police ?'

She had done, and, with her hands
clasped, she bent towards him, looking into
his immoveable face as he stood with his
hands folded before him.

You devil !'

That was all he said, and turned to the
writing-table.

The widow started up from the floor,
and rushed to him, catching his arm.

Anthony ! you are not going to write
for the police, after all ? Not after what
I have told you — Anthony !'

'What do you suppose I am going todo,
then ?'

And, scribbling off a few lines, he
shouted,

John !'

The man came in, and Anthony tossed
him the note, saying,

To the police-station, and quick.'

A moment Maud Gainsborough stood
still, whilst her eyes swept round the
room, and an inarticulate cry came from
her lips parted in horror, and then she
staggered to the sofa and flung herself
down on her face with a wild shriek of
despair.

Anthony Gainsborough rose from the
table, perfectly unmoved, and went towards
Essie, who stood leaning against the
wall horror-struck and shuddering.

Oh, Uncle Tony !' she exclaimed, in a
tone of consternation.

Her uncle put his hand on her shoulder
and took her to the open window.

*You will not forget what you have
heard ?' he said.

Forget ! Would it be possible to
forget !' said the girl, sinking into a chair
by the window.

Anthony Gainsborough left her and
crossed to the sofa.

I have something to say to you
he said, touching the widow on the
shoulder.

And, as she rose trembling, he added,

Come with me.'

He led the way to the dining-room, and
Maud followed him, wondering to herself
whether he was, after all, going to give hera
chance of escape.

In the dining-room he pointed to a
chair by the table, and she sat down.

Again he folded his arms, as he had
done in the drawing-room, and then fixing
his eyes on hers, asked,

You poisoned your husband ?'

If I tell you — will you let me go ?'
gasped Maud Gainsborough.

But Anthony Gainsborough only repeated
his question,

You poisoned him, with that same
aconite?'

The widow hung her head. Of what
use to deny it ? Perhaps confession might
earn her some mercy. Almost inaudibly,
she answered,

'Yes.'

Placing the little phial he had taken
from her on the table before her, Anthony
Gainsborough said,

You can lock the door. You understand
?'

Maud looked at him, pale as ashes.

No,' she said, in a hollow voice.

'No? You know what is in that
bottle.'

The widow looked up defiantly.

If I wo7it understand?'

The police will be here in a .'


And he walked out of the room.

In the hall he stopped to listen.

The key turned in the lock of the diningroom
door behind him.

CHAPTER XIV.

A SINGLE flat slab of white marble — nameless
and dateless — in a lonely corner of
the little churchyard at Lynbam, covers a
grave over wbicb no prayers of the dead
were said.

The spring sun gleamed upon it brightly
as Frank Warrington, with bis young wife
on bis arm, made their way towards it,
past many other graves.

They bad come home from the Continent
only yesterday, Lily completely recovered,
and without a trace on her beautiful face

of the peril through which she had
passed.

In her hand she carried a wreath of
white flowers, which, when they reached
the lonely slab, she put down upon
it.

^ Poor Maud !' she said, leaning on her
husband's arm, and dashing a tear from
her eyes. 'Ah, Frank, I would give all
my big fortune to have her back again.
You have not forgiven her, Frank, for
trying to poison me. I suppose you never
will. And I know I should find it hard
to forgive anyone who tried to injure you.
But I — I loved Maud. 1 loved her up to
the hour that she died, and afterwards —
one could not bear malice against the
dead : and I shall love her always.' Bending,
she put her hand gently on the
marble slab, and said, ^I hope you have

been forgiven, dear, as I have forgiven
you.'

Stepping back, but still looking at the
stone, she asked,

Frank, do you ever wonder who he
was?'

'He? Who?'

That man. The man whom poor Maud
met, and fell in love with in a moment :
for whose sake she wished to get the
fortune that she might marry him. I do
wonder who he was.'

I don't believe that there was ever any
such person. That was all a fabrication,
a story invented in the forlorn hope of
persuading Mr. Gainsborough to have the
poisoning hushed up.'

Lily shook her head.

No, Frank. There was some one. I
could give you quite a little history about

him. At the time, I thought nothing
about it ; but afterwards, after poor Maud
had destroyed herself, and Mr. Gainsborough
told me all that she had said,
when I began to question my memory, I
recollected a number of things. There
was some one. And he must have come
to Lynham about the time that I was laid
up ^vith that bad cold I had after our
adventure on the beach. Maud must
have met him on some occasion when she
was out, whilst I was unable to leave the
house. Immediately afterwards, when I
was well again, I noticed a change in her.
She was anxious and nervous. And then
they either met again, or she heard something
that was satisfactory, for she became
more like herself. Afterwards, things went
wrong. At that date, she was never the
same for two days together ; but sometimes

in the highest spirits, and then again unhappy,
and then thinking, thinking for
hours together, and strange and absent.
I think that it must have been about that
time that he proposed, and that they found
they could not afford to marry. Afterwards,
Maud became more like herself
again, and was very, very kind to me —
that was when you and I had quarrelled
and then I fell ill. And that was, of
course, when she began giving me poison.
If she had only told me about the fortune,
I would gladly have shared it with her,
and that would have been quite fair ; fairer
than that I should have it all, because it
was she who was clever enough to hind
it out, and to get all the papers together.
And there would still have been more
than enough for you and me, dear. But
I do wonder who he was. He must have

been a man out of the common. Maud
could not have loved a man who had not
something in him. And, I believe, he had
dark hair, because of a remark she made tome
about dark-haired men. And, somehow,
I have a suspicion that he loved her much
less than she loved him. So few people
come to Lynham, that one ought to be able
to find him out easily. But I hate to ask
people about anything relating to Maud :
they speak so bitterly of her ; and it makes
my heart ache. I wonder what he has
thought of it all, and whether he will ever
come to see her grave. I should like him
to do that — and to be very sorry.'

You will never know who he was,'
said Warrington. ^ If there ever really
was such a person. She has taken her
secret with her.'

Then she has taken with her the dearest

VOL. III. s

thing lie had on earth,' said Lily, gently ;
and they turned to go home.

Anthony Gainsborough and the Chesterfield
girls were at Lynhurst. They had
come back from the Continent with Frank
Warrington and his wife. After dinner,
in the evening, whilst Violet was playing,
Essie and Lily and Warrington and
Eustace sat talking in a little group.

Did you go to Mrs. Gainsborough's
grave ?' asked Essie.

Yes.'

Lily,' said Warrington, 'has been hoping
that the unknown man, whoever he was,
with whom Mrs. Gainsborough fell in love
will pay it a visit. She thinks that he
should.'

Are you sure that he has not done so
already ?' asked Eustace.

Essie bent over, and whispered something
to Lily, and she, turning to Eustace,
asked,

'Eustace, you see everything that no
one else sees : do you know who he
was ?'

Eustace answered, slowly,

He did not care for her. But, if she
had had money, he would have married
her : at least, I used to think so.'

'But, who was he? Who was he?'
demanded Essie and Lily at the same
moment. ' You know !'

'Who was he? Why should T tell
you?' answered Eustace, pensively. 'Are
you sure that it would do you any good
to know ? If you had taken your secrets
with you into another world, would you
thank anyone for telling them here ? Who
was he ? That no one will ever know.'

Rising, he went across the room to speak
to Violet at the piano. And, as he went,
he said to himself,

These people who see, how blind they
are !'

THE END.

LONDON : Printed BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, Blenheim HOUSE.

Hues & Blackett

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

LONDON:
13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET, W.

■ff

EACH IN ONE VOLUME GROWN 8vo, 6s.

KlNIGhHT-ERRANT.

'" Knight-errant ' is marked by the author's best qualities as a writer of Action, and
displays on every page the grace and quiet power of her former works"— Athenaeum.

"The plot, and, indeed, the whole story, is gracefully fresh and very charming; there
is a wide humanity in the book that cannot fail to accomplish its author's purpose"—
Literary World.

This novel is distinctly helpful and inspiring from its high tone, its intense human
feeling, and its elevated morality. It forms an additional proof, if such were needed,
that Miss Lyell has a mandate to write." — Academy.

DONOVi^lST:

A MODERN ENGLISHMAN.

"This is a very admirable work. The reader is from the first carried away by the
gallant unconventionality of its author. ' Donovan ' is a very excellent novel ; but it is
something more and better. It should do as much good as the best sermon ever written
or delivered extempore. The story is told with a grand simplicity, an unconscious poetry
of eloquence which stirs the very depths of the heart. One of the main excellencies of
this novel is the delicacy of touch with which the author shows her most delightful characters
to be after all human beings, and not angels before their time." — Standard.

AVE TTVO.

A work of deep thought and much power. Serious as it is, it is now and then brightened
by rays of genuine humour. Altogether this story is more and better than a novel."
Morning Post.

There is artistic realism both in the conception and the delineation of the personages;
the action and interest are unflagging sustained from first to last, and the boot is pervaded
by an atmosphere of elevated, earnest thought." — Scotsman.

IN THE GhOEDEN EA.YS.

"Miss Lyell has given us a vigorous study of such life and character as are really worth
reading about. The central figure of her story is Algerian Sydney; and this figure she
invests with a singular dignity and power. He always appears with effect, but no liberties
are taken with the facts of his life. The plot is adapted with great felicity to them.
His part in it, absolutely consistent as it is with historical truth, gives it reality as well as
dignity. Some of the scenes are remarkably vivid. The escape is an admirable narrative,
which almost makes one hold one's breath as one ve2id3."—Sjpectaior.

"The Dean's daughters are perfectly real characters— the learned Cornelia especially;
—the little impulsive French heroine, who endures their cold hospitality and at last wins
their affection, is thoroughly charming; while throughout the book there runs a golden
thread of pure brotherly and sisterly love, which pleasantly reminds us that the making
and marring of marriage is not, after all, the sum total of real life." — Academy.

LONDON : Hurst AND BLACKETT, LIMITED.



MESSRS. HURST AND Blacker's

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

BAKDOBAST AND KHABAR; Reminiscences of

India. By CoL<jKEL CuTHBERT Lurking. With twelve Illustrations,
from original Drawings by the Author. 1 vol. small 4to. 10s. Gd.

"The authors accounts of tiger hunts will be entertaining both to those who
have met and those who desire to meet the king of the Indian fauna in his own
dominions." — Morning Post.

"Colonel Larking is to be the more congratulated on having written a readable
work of travel in an already well-known cowaXrj:'— Society Herald.

REMINISCENCES OF ETON (Kate's TIME).

By the Rev. C. Alli Wilkinson, M.A., Author of " Reminiscences
of the Court and Times of King Ernest of Hanover."
With Portrait of Dr. Kate. 1 vol. crown 8vo. 6s.
"Mr. "Wilkinson 8 book is thoroughly fresh and entertaining; it is crammed
full of good stories, and will be a joy to all Etonians."— Crap/iic.

LADY HAMILTON AND LORD NELSON. An

Historical Biography based on Letters and other Documents in

the possession of Altered Morrison, Esq., of Fonthill, Wiltshire.

By John Cord Jeaffreson, Author of " The real Lord Byron,"

<tec. 2 vols, crown 8vo. dis.
Mr. Jeaffreson may be thanked for the new and favourable light which he has
been able to throw upon the public and private conduct both of Lady Hamilton
and of Nelson. '—0/o6e.

"It only remains for us to compliment Mr. Jeaffreson upon the reliable, painstaking,
thorough way in which he has dealt with the story of Lady Hamilton,
without offending the moral sense of his readers-IcatZemy.

FOUR MONTHS' CRUISE IN A SAILING

YACHT. By Lady Erne.>^tine Edgcxjmbk and Lady Mart
Wood. With Illustrations. 1 vol. crown 8vo. 7s. Gd.
"The whole journey is recounted in such a way as to make the narrative

agreeable reading, and to intending travellers In the same track it contains many

useful hints and suggestions. '—rA^ Queen.

RECORDS OF SERVICE AND CAMPAIGNING

IX MANY LANDS. By Surgeon-general Munro, M.D., Cab.,
Author of " Reminiscences of Military Service with the 93rd
Sutherland Highlanders," &c. Dedicated by Permission to
H. R. H. THE PRINCESS LOUISE. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

"The story which Dr. Munro has to tell is one which never flags or ceases to
be instructive as well as interesting." — Spectator.

"These Records should be in the hands of every soldier, for the sake of the
information which they give and the spirit which informs them." — Globe,

Full of interesting notes on the army and army life"— ffropAtc.

EIGHTEENTH CENTURY WAIFS. By John

AsHTON, Author of ' Social Life in the Reign of Queen Anne,' &c.
1 vol. small 4to. 123.

The matter contained in this book is always pleasing and instructive. There
is certainly not a dull page in the volume"— G'/ofee.

'• Mr. Ashton has produced a volume of light and pleasant character." — Morning
Post. ^

Shinar SKETCHES: With Notes on Indian

Field Sports. By J. Moray Brown, late 79th Cameron Highlanders,
With Eight Illustrations, by J. C. Dolman, Rei. 1 vol.
small 4to. 10s. 6d.

"A glorious book. It is palpably the work of a true a^ortaman."— Horse and Hours.

"The Sketches are delightfully written, models of clear, bright, racy narrative,
and containing just those particulars that a sportsman wishes to know.' — Scotsman.

•'The author goes through the round of Indian sport, and writes in such a
pleasant fashion as to make his pages agreeable reading to all for whom the
subject itself has attractions ; the book has the additional advantage of some
spirited illustrations." — The Field.

Mr. Moray Brown records his long experiences among big game in India with
capital spirit and style; there are some thrilling pages on pig-sticking and tiger-shooting."
— The World.

THROUGH CYPRUS. By Agnes Smith, Author

of " Glimpses of Greek Life and Scenery," &c 1 vol. demy 8vo.
With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.
The cheerful and observant authoress has much that is new to tell VLa."— Daily
Telegraph.

' rb rough Cyprus ' may be heartily commended to readers who are fond of
an entertaining and chatty narration of incidents of travel"— >Sico(smaw.

REMINISCENCES OF THE COURT AND

TIMES OF KING ERNEST OF HANOVER. By the Rev C.

A. Wilkinson, M.A., His Majesty's Resident Domestic Chaplain.

Second and Cheaper Edition. 1 vol. crown 8vo. With portrait of

the King. 6s.

"Mr. Wilkinson's descriptions of the Court balls, where even the ladies took

precedence according to military rank, of the characters he met with, and of the

Hanoverian clergy of those days, will be found decidedly interesting"— .Spectator.

An interesting book, which abounds in characteristic stories of the old king,

in anecdotes of many celebrities, English and foreign, of the early part of this

century, and, indeed, of all kinds and conditions of men and women with whom

the author was brought in contact by his courtly or pastoral office"— S(. James's

Gazette.

THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF PEG

Washington : With Pictures of the Period in which She

Lived. By J. Fitzgerald Molloy, Author of " Court Life

Below Stairs," &c. Third and Cheaper Edition. 1 vol. crown 8vo.

With Portrait. 6s.

"Peg Washington makes a most interesting central figure, round which Mr.

Molloy has made to revolve a varied and picturesque panorama of London life

in the middle of the 18th century. He sees things in the past so clearly, grasps

them so tenaciously, and reproduces them so vividly that they come to us without

any of the dust and rust of time." — O. A. S. in the Illustrated London A^'ews.

Mr. Molloy's work has the merit at least of being from the first chapter to theast
without a single dull page." — Daily News.

CHAPTERS FROM FAMILY CHESTS. By

Edward Walford, M.A., Author of ' The County Families,' &c.
'2, vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
' Chapters from Family Chests ' are a great deal more exciting and absorbing
than one half the professedly sensational novels"— Z)a% Telegraph.

"Mr. Walford's volumes abound in what is known as the romance of real life,
and are extremely interesting reading"— Z)aj7i^ News.

NEW V^OUKS— Continued.

THE EGYPTIAN CAMPAIGNS, 1882 to 1885,

AND THE Events which led to them. By Charles Rotlr,

Barrister at-Law, of Alexandria. 2 vols, demy 8vo. Illustrated

by Maps and Plans. SOs.

"Mr. Roylehas done well in the interests of historical completeness to describe

not only the entire military drama but also the political events connected with

it, and whoever reads the book with care has gone a considerable way towards

mastering the difficult Egyptian question"— .4 f/i?n<p«m.

"The Egyptian fiasco has found in ilr. Boyle a most painstaking, accurate, and
judicious historian. From a literary point of view his volumes may be thought to
contain too many unimportant incidents, yet their presence was necessary perhaps,
in a complete record, and the most fastidious reader will acquit Mr. Boyle
of mining his pages with anything that can be called padding"— 5r. James's Gazette.

FOOTSTEPS OF JEANNE D'ARO. A Pilgrimage.

By Mrs. Florence Caddy. 1 vol demy svo. With Map of Route, los.
"The reader, whatever his preconceived notions of the maid may have been,
will soon And himself in sympathy with a writer who, by the charm of her descriptive
style, at once arrests bis attention and sustains the interest of ber
subject" — Morning Post.

THE FRIENDSHIPS OF MARY RUSSELL

Milford: As Recorded in Letters from her Literary
Correspondents. Edited by the Rev. A. G. Estrange,
Editor of " The Life of Mary Russell Milford," &c. 2 vols. 21s.
"These letters are all written as to one whom the writers love and revere. Miss
Barrett is one of Miss Milford's correspondents, all of whom seem to be inspired
with a sense of excellence in the mind they are invoking. Their letters are extremely
interesting, and they strike out recollections, opinions, criticisms, which
will hold the readers delighted and serious attention." — Daily Telegraph.

THE Bronze Family, With Special Reference

to Patrick Branwell Bronze. By Francis A. Leland. 2
vols. 21s.
"This book is so full of interesting information that as a contribution to literary
biography it may be considered a real success." — Academy.

Mr. Leland's book is earnest and accurate, and he has spared no pains to
master his subject and present it with clearness; the book is valuable, and should
be read by all who are familiar with the previous works on the family"— (TrapAtc.

MEMOIRS OF A CAMBRIDGE CHORISTER.

By William Glover. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 2l3.

"In these amusing volumes Mr. Glover provides us with the means of spending
a pleasant hour or two in his company's'— 7\/nei.

"These volumes contain a miscellaneous set of reminiscences, comments, and
anecdotes, written in a light and jocular style. Mr. Glover is always cheerful
and never didactic"— .A^/je/keu/w.

WITHOUT GOD: Negative Science and Natural

Ethics. By Percy Greg, Author of '« The Devil's Advocate,"

"Across the Zodiac," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 12s.

Mr. Greg has condensed much profound thought into his book, and has fully

succeeded in maintaining the interest of the discussion throughout." — Morning Pott.

This work is ably written ; there are in it many passages of no ordinary power

and brilliancy. It is eminently suggestive and stimulating"— 5co<s»ia«.

PLAIN SPEAKING. By Author of " John Halifax,

Gentleman." 1 vol. crown 8vo. Gs.
"We recommend 'Plain Speaking' to all who like amusing, wholesome, and
instructive reading. The contents of Mrs. Craik's volume are of the most multifarious
kind, but all the papers are good and readable, and one at least of them
of real importance"— eli. James's Gazette.



LODGE'S PEERAGE

AND BARONETAGE,

Corrected BY THE NOBILITY.

FIFTY-see NTH Edit ON FOR 1888.

Lodge's Peerage and Baronetage is acknowledged to be the most
complete, as well as the most elegant, work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family
histories, honours, and connections of the titled aristocracy, no work has
ever stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal communications
of the Nobility. It is the only work of its class in which, the
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the realm, the most
sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches of the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility of arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility.

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.

Historical View of the Peerage.
Parliamentary Roll of the House of Lords.
English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their

orders of Precedence.
Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain

and the United Kingdom, holding superior
rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage.
A Alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers,

holding superior titles in the Peerage of

Great Britain and the United Kingdom.
A Collective list of Peers, in their order of

Precedence.
Table of Precedency among Men.
Table of Precedency among Women,
The Queen and the Royal Family.
Peers of the Blood Royal.
The Peerage, alphabetically arranged.
Families of such Extinct Peers as have left

Widows or Issue.
Alphabetical List of the Summer of all the

Peers.

The Archbishops and Bishops of England
and Ireland-the

Baronetage alphabetically arranged.

Alphabetical List of Surnames assumed by
members of Noble Families.

Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
Peers, usually borne by their Eldest
Sons.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Dukes, Marquises, and Earls, who, having
married Commoners, retain the title
of Lady before their own Christian and
their Husband's Surnames.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Viscounts and Barons, who, having
married Commoners, are styled Honourable
Mrs. ; and, in case of the husband
being a Baronet or Knight. Hon. Lady.

A List of the Orders of Knighthood.

Mottoes alphabetically arranged and translated.


"This work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently deceased
members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stands at this day. It ia
a most useful publication. We are happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy is a distinguishing feature of this book." — Times.

"Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: first, it
is on a better plan ; and secondly, it is better executed. We can safely pronounce it to bethe
readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modem works on the subject." — Spectator:

"A work of great value. It ia the most faithful record we possess of the aristocracy
of the day"— Post.

PUBLISHED BY Hues & BLACKETT.

THE GOLDEN HOPE : A Romance of tie Deep.

By W. Clark Russell, Author of "A Sea Queen," "The Wreck
of the Grosvenor," &c. 1 vol. 6s.
"Mr. Clark Russell is at his best in ' The Golden Hope,' which means that this
book of his is one of the finest books of its kind in our language"— ^catfemy.

A HOUSE PARTY. By Ouida. (Second Edition.)

1 vol. crown 8vo. 6s.
"The sketches of character are hit off with accuracy of observation and with a
firm and clear outline"— Z)ai7)/ Telegraph.

ON THE SCENT. By Lady Margaret Majestie,

Author of 'Dita,' 'Once More,' ' Sisters-in-law,' &c. 1 vol.
crown 8vo. 6s.
"A bright and wholesome story." — St. James's Gazette.

A DOUBLE WEDDING. By the Author of '' St.

Slave's," " Janita's Cross," &c. 3 vols.

"The tale is told with quaint and pathetic simplicity, and is in every sense a
charming Btory."— Morning Post.

The work is a combination of refined quiet humour and gentle pathos which
produce a delightful whole"— whitehall Review.

THE GAY WORLD. By Joseph Hatton, Author

of " Clothe," &c. 3 vols.

"The chief characters all have a certain charm. One follows with genuine
anxiety the course of their ca,veer.''— Globe.

The book is interspersed with many clever passages, bits of choice description,
and happy touches of character; it is the ablest novel Mr. Hatton has
written." — Academy.

IN BAD HANDS. By F. W. Robinson, Author

of " Grandmother's Money," " The Courting of Mary Smith," &c.
3 vols.
The volumes are alive with touches of humour and pathos, and are pretty
sure to be welcomed by novel-resLdera.'^—Athenceum

THE TREASURE OF THORBURNS. A Novel.

By Frederick Boyle, Author of "A Good Hater," "Legends of

my Bungalow," &c. 3 vols.
The story is excellent in its way, more than sufficiently well written, and with
certain touches of fresh originality that lift it out of the pale of the commonplace."
— Literary World.

WEEPING FERRY. A Novel. By George False.

2 vols.
"sweeping Ferry' ia decidedly above the average of contemporary novels"—
Saturday Review.

"Mr. false's pages are simply and prettily written-scotsman.

COULD HE DO BETTER? By Arthur A.

Hoffman. 3 vols.
The writing is throughout careful yet easy, never tame and never affected,
and the structure of the story has compactness, proportion, and symmetry"—
Spectator.

THE SON OF HIS FATHER. By Mrs. Oliphant,

Author of " It was a Lover and his Lass," " Agnes," &c. 3 vols.
"No previous work of Mrs. Oliphant better justifies her high position among
English novelists than her new book. It is difficult to speak too highly of the
truth, power, and pathos of this iaXe."— Morning Post.

Bernard AND Marcia: a Story of Middle

Age. By Elizabeth Cloister. 3 vols.

A WILY WIDOW. By Henry Cresswell, Author

of " A Modern Greek Heroine," &c. 3 vols.

VIRGINIA Tenant. By the Author of " Christina

North," "A Golden Bar," &c. 2 vols.

The author writes well ; her excellent manner, united to her heroine's brightness
and originality, make of ' Virginia Tenant ' an exceedingly pleasing book."
Morning Post.

ONLY A CORAL GIRL. By Gertrude Force,

Author of " Driven Before the Storm," &c. 3 vols.
"only a Coral Girl' will delight many readers by the excellent feeling and
healthy purpose with which it is animated." — Athenaeum.

A FAIR CRUSADER; A Story of To-day. By

William Stall, Author of "Larry Lohengrin," "A Queer
Race," &c. 2 vols.

*' The interest does not halt for a moment in these pages, full of incident and
adventure." — Morning Post.

A BRETON MAIDEN. By A French Lady,

Author of " Till my Wedding-day." " 3 vols.

"Time and space alike would fail us to note the many fine points of this
admirable no-^eV— Academy.

The author's local colouring is always good, and she has perfectly caught the
spirit of the time she depicts." — Morning Post.

BORN IN THE PURPLE. By Maxwell Fox.

3 vols.

'Born in the Purple ' is not wanting in originality, and on the whole is free
from the reproach of d.-a.lness."— Morning Post.

A NEW FACE AT THE DOOR. By Jane Stanley,
Author of " A Daughter of the Gods." 2 vols.

All the characters are well described, the young people being drawn with a
clever hand, and standing out distinctly in their several ways as real persons." —
Queen.

The tone of the whole book is natural and healthy, and it is pleasant reading."
Saturday Review.

THE SPORT OF CHANCE. By William Sharp.

3 vols.

'The Sport of Chance ' has prima facie an undeniable advantage to start with :
i.e., it is unlike almost anything hitherto written in the shape of a novel in three
volumes; The author shows much skill in unravelling the tangled skein of a complicated
plot." — Morning Post.

SWEET IS TRUE LOVE. By Katharine King,

Author of " The Queen of the Regiment," " Off the Roll," &c.
2 vols.

It is in the tender sympathetic treatment of details that the writer is most
successful"— ^i. James's Gazette.

OF CHEAP EDITIONS OF

POPULAR MODERN WORKS.

Illustrated BY

Sir J. E. Millais, Sir J. Gilbert, Holman Hunt, Birket Foster,

John Leech, John Tenniel, J. Laslett Pott, etc.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

I.— SAM SLICK'S NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"The first volume of Messrs. Hurst and Blackett's Standard Library of Cheap Editions
forms a very good beginning to what will doubtless be a very successful undertaking.
'Nature and Human Nature ' is one of the best of Sam Slick's witty and humorous productions,
and well entitled to the large circulation which it cannot fail to obtain in its
present convenient and cheap shape. The volume combines with the great recommendations
of a clear, bold type and good paper, the lesser, but attractive merits of being well
illustrated and elegantly boimd." — Morning Post.

IL— JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

"The new and cheaper edition of this interesting work will doubtless meet with great
success. John Halifax, the hero of this most beautiful story, is no ordinary hero, and
this his history is no ordinary book. It is a full-length portrait of a true gentleman, one
of nature's own nobility. It is also the history of a home, and a thoroughly English one.
The work abounds in incident, and many of the scenes are full of graphic power and true
pathos. It is a book that few will read without becoming wiser and better." — Scotsman.

"This story is very interesting. The attachment between John Halifax and his wife is
beautifully painted, as are the pictures of their domestic life, and trio growing up of their
children; and the conclusion of the book is beautiful and touching"— ^^AensMW.

Il— THE CRESCENT AND THE CROSS.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.

"Independent of its value as an original narrative, and its useful and interesting
information, this work is remarkable for the colouring power and play of fancy with
which its descriptions are enlivened. Among its greatest and most lasting charms is its
reverent and serious spirit"— Quarterly Review.

^ " Mr. Warburton has fulfilled the promise of his title-page. The ' Realities of Eastern
Travel ' are described with a vividness which invests them with deep and abiding interest;
while the 'Romantic' adventures which the enterprising tourist met with in his
course are narrated with a spirit which shows how much he enjoyed these reliefs from
the ennui of every-day liie."— Globe.

lY.— Nathaniel

JULIA KAVANAGH.

' Nathalie ' is Miss Kavanagh's best imaginative effort. Its manner is gracious and
attractive. Its matter is good. A sentiment, a tenderness, are commanded by her which
are as individual as they are elegant. We should not soon come to an end were we to
specify all the delicate touches and attractive pictures which place ' Nathan ' high among
books of its cla.ss."—Athen<eum.

y.^A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

These thoughts are good and humane. They are thoughts we would wish women to
think : they are much more to the purpose than the treatises upon the women and daughters
of England, which were fashionable some years ago, and these thoughts mark the
progress of opinion, and indicate a higher tone of character, and a juster estimate of
woman's position"— A then asuni.

This excellent book is characterised by good sense, good taste, and feeling, and .is
written in an earnest, philanthropic, as well as practical spent"— Morning Pest.

VI.— ADAM GEAEME OF MOSSGRAY.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

'Adam Gramme ' is a story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by ita
admirable pictures of Scottish life and scenery. The plot is cleverly complicated, and
there is great vitality in the dialogue, and remarkable brilliancy in the descriptive passages,
as who that has read 'Margaret Maitland ' would not be prepared to expect?
But the story has a 'mightier magnet still,' in the healthy tone which pervades it, in it
feminine delicacy of thought and diction, and in the truly womanly tenderness of ita
sentiments. The eloquent author sets before us the essential attributes of Christian
virtue, their deep and silent workings in the heart, and their beautiful manifestations iu
the life, with a delicacy, a power, and a truth which can hardly be surpassed," — Morning
Post.

VII.— SAM SLICK'S WISE SAWS AND
MODERN INSTANCES.

"We have not the slightest intention to criticise this book. Its reputation is made, and
will stand as long as that of Scott's or Buller's novels. The remarkable originality of
its purpose, and the happy description it affords of American life and manners, still continue
the subject of universal admiration. To say thus much is to say enough, though we
must just mention that the new edition forms a part of the Publishers' Cheap Standard
Library, which has included some of the very best specimens of light literature that ever
have been written"— J/essewgrer.

Vii— CARDINAL WISEMAN'S RECOLLECTIONS
OF THE LAST FOUR POPES.

A picturesque book on Rome and its ecclesiastical sovereigns, by an eloquent Roman
Catholic. Cardinal "Wiseman has here treated a special subject with so much generality
and geniality that his recollections will excite no ill-feeling in those who are most conscientiously
opposed to every idea of human infallibility represented in Papal domination."
Athmsaum.

IX.— A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

By THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"We are always glad to welcome Mrs. Craik. She writes from her own convictions,
and she has the power not only to conceive clearly what it is that she wishes to
say, but to express it in language effective and vigorous. In ' A Life for a Life ' she ia
fortunate in a good subject, and she has produced a work of strong effect. The
reader, having read the book through for the story, will be apt (if he be of our persuasion)
to return and read again many pages and passages with greater pleasure
than on a first perusal. The whole book is replete with a graceful, tender delicacy;
and, in addition to its other merits, it is written in good careful English." —
Athmceum.

"' A Life for a Life ' is a book of a high class. The characters are depicted with a
masterly hand ; the events are dramatically set forth ; the descriptions of scenery and
sketches of society are admirably penned ; moreover, the work has an object — a clearly
defined moral— most poetically, most beautifully drawn, and through all there is that
strong, reflective mind visible which lays bare the human heart and human mind to the
very core." —Morning Post.

X.— THE OLD COURT SUBURB.

BY LEIGH HUNT.

A book which has afforded us no slight gratification." — Athenaeum.

From the mixture of description, anecdote, biography, and criticism, this book is very
pleasant reading." — Spectator.

A more agreeable and entertaining book has not been published since Boswell produced
his reminiscences of Johnson." — Observer.



XI.— MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " THE VALLEY OF A HUNDRED FIRES."

We recommend all who are in search of a fascinating novel to read this vrork :for
themselves. They will find it well worth their while. There are a freshness and originality
about it quite charming, and there is a certain nobleness iu the treatment both of
sentiment and incident which is not often found." — Alienum.

Nil— THE OLD JUDGE ; OR, LIFE IN A COLONY.

BY SAM SLICK.

A peculiar interest attaches to sketches of colonial life, and readers could not have a
safer guide than the talented author of this work, who, by a residence of half a century,
has practically grasped the habits, manners, and social conditions of the colonists he describes.
All who wish to form a fair idea of the difficulties and pleasures of life in a new
country, like England in some respects, yet like it in many, should read this book"—
John Bull.

XHL— DARIEN; OR, THE MERCHANT PRINCE.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.

This last production of the author of ' The Crescent and the Cross ' has the same
elements of a very wide popularity. It will please its thousands." — Globe.

"Eliot Warburton's active and productive genius is amply exemplified in the present
book. "We have seldom met with any work in which the realities of history and the
poetry of fiction were more happily interwoven." — Illustrated News.

XIV.— FAMILY ROMANCE ; OR, DOMESTIC ANNALS
OF THE ARISTOCRACY.

BY SIR BERNARD BURKE, ULSTER KING OF ARMS.

"It were impossible to praise too highly this most interesting book, whether we should
have regard to its excellent plan or its not less excellent execution. It ought to be found
on every drawing-room table. Here you have nearly fifty captivating romances with tho
pith of all their interest preserved in undiminished poignancy, and any one may be read
in half an hour. It is not the least of their merits that the romances are founded on factor
what, at least, has been handed down for truth by long tradition — and the romance
of reality far exceeds the romance of &Qi\on."'— Standard.

XV.— THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"We have had frequent opportunities of commending Messrs. Hurst and Blackett's
Standard Library. For neatness, elegance, and distinctness the volumes in this series
surpass anything with which we are familiar. ' The Laird of Norlaw ' will fully sustain
the author's high reputation. The reader is carried on from first to last with an energy
of sympathy that never flags." — Sunday Times.

' The Laird of Norlaw ' is worthy of the author's reputation. It is one of the^most
exquisite of modern novels." — Observer.

XVL— THE ENGLISHWOMAN IN ITALY.

BY MRS. G. Bretton.

Mrs. Bretton had opportunities which rarely fall to the lot of strangers of becoming
acquainted with the inner life and habits of a part of the Italian peninsula which is the
very centre of the national crisis. We can praise her performance as interesting, unexaggerated,
and full of opportune instruction"— r/je Times.

Mrs. Bretton's book is timely, life-like, and for every reason to be recommended. It
is impossible to close the book without liking the writer as well aa the subject. The work
is engaging, because resiV'—Athenxum.



Evil— NOTHING NEW.

BY THE AUTHOR OP " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"nothing New' displays all those superior merits which have made 'John Halifax
one of the most popular works of the day. There is a force and truthfulness about these
tales which mark them as the production of no ordinary mind, and we cordially recommend
them to the perusal of all lovers of Qction.''— Morning Post.

Xvii— LIFE OF JEANNE D'ALBRET, QUEEN OF
NAVARRE.

BY MISS FREER.

"We have read this book with great pleasure, and have no hesitation in recommending
it to general perusal. It reflects the highest credit on the industry and ability of Miss
Freer. Nothing can be more interesting than her story of the life of Jeanne D'Albret
and the narrative is as trustworthy as it is attractive." — Morning Post.

XIX.— THE VALLEY OF A HUNDRED FIRES.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS."

If asked to classify this work, we should give it a place between ' John Halifax ' and
'The Cantons.' "standard.
The spirit in which the whole book is written is refined and good." — Athenaeum.
"This is in every sense a charming novel"— Messenger.

XX.— THE ROMANCE OF THE FORUM; OR, NARRATIVES,
SCENES, AND ANECDOTES FROM COURTS OF JUSTICE.

BY PETER BURKE, SERJEANT AT LAW.

This attractive book will be perused with much interest. It contains a great variety
of singular and highly romantic stories"— /o/i« Bull.

A work of singular interest, which can never fail to charm and absorb the reader's
attention. The present cheap and elegant edition includes the true story of the Colleen
B&wn."— Illustrated News.

XXL— ADELE.

BY JULIA KAVANAGH.

"raddle' is the best work we have read by Miss Kavanagh; it is a charming story,
full of delicate character-painting. The interest kindled in the first chapter bums brightly
to the close." — Athenaeum.

'■ 'Adele' will fully sustain the reputation of Miss Kavanagh, high as it already ranks."
—John Bull.

' Ad'ele ' is a love-story of very considerable pathos and power. It s a very clever
novel." — Daily News.

Xxii— STUDIES FROM LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"These 'Studies ' are truthful and vivid pictures of life, often earnest, always full Ox right
feeling, and occasionally lightened by touches of quiet, genial humour. The volume is remarkable
for thought, sound sense, shrewd observation, and kind and sympathetic feeling
for all things good and beautiful." — Morning Post.

"These ' Studies from Life ' are remarkable for graphic power and observation. The
book will not diminish the reputation of the accomplished avxhot."— Saturday Review.



Xxii— GRANDMOTHER'S MONEY.
BY F. W. Robinson.

"We commend 'Grandmother's Money' to readers in search of a good novel. The
characters are true to human nature, and the story is interesting." — Athenaeum.

XXIV.— A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS.

BY JOHN Corny JEAFFRESOX.

A book to be read and re-read ; fit for the study as well as the drawing-room table and
the circulating library." — Lancet.

"This is a pleasant book for the fireside season, and for the seaside season. Mr. Jefferson
has, out of hundreds of volumes, collected thousands of good things, adding thereto
much that appears in print for the first time, and which, of course, gives increased value
to this very readable book," — Athenaeum.

XXV.— NO Church.

BY F. W. Robinson.

"We advise all who have the opportunity to read this book. It is well worth the
study. ' ' — A thence.
A work of great originality, merit, and power"— Standard

XXVI.— MISTRESS AND MAID.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, Gentleman."

A good wholesome book, gracefully written, and as pleasant to read as it is instructive."
— Athenaeum.

"A charming tale, charmingly to\±"— Standard.

"All lover of a good novel will hail with delight another of Mrs. Craik's charming
stories"— /o/»n Bull.

Xxvi— LOST AND SAVED.

BY THE HON. MRS. NORTON.

"lost and Saved' will be read with eager interest by those who love a touching story
It is a vigorous novel." — Times.

"This story is animated, full of exciting situations and stirring incidents. The characters
are delineated with great power. Above and beyond these elements of a good novel,
here is that indefinable charm with which true genius invests all it touches'' — Daily News.

XXVIII.— LES Miserable.

BY VICTOR HUGO.
Authorised Copyright English Translation,

"The merits of 'Les Miserable ' do not merely consist in the conception of it as a
whole ; it abounds with details of unequalled beauty. M. Victor Hugo^has stamped upon
every page the hall-mark of genius"— Qwar^er/y Review.

XXIX.— BARBARA'S HISTORY

BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

"It is not often that we light upon a novel of so much merit and interest as
Barbara's History.' It is a work conspicuous for taste and literary culture. It is a eery
graceful and charming book, with a well-managed story, clearly-cut characters, and
sentiments expressed with an exquisite elocution. The dialogues especially sparkle with
repartee. It is a book which the world will like. This is high praise of a work of art,
and 80 we intend iV—The Times.



XXX.— LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"A good book on a most interesting theme." — Times.

A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. ' Irving's Life ' ought to have a niche
in every gallery of religious biography. There are few lives that will be fuller of instruction,
interest, and conso\&tion."—Saturtkty Review.

Xxxi— ST. Slave's.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JANITA's CROSS."

"This novel is the work of one who possesses a great talent for writing, as well as
experience and knowledge of the world. The whole book is worth reading." — Athmceum.

' St. Slave's ' belongs to a lofty order of fiction. It is a good novel, but it is something
more. It is written with unflagging ability, and it is as even as it is clever. The author
has determined to do nothing short of the best, and has succeeded." — Morning Post.

XXXII.— SAM SLICK'S TRAITS OF AMERICAN HUMOUR.

Dip where you will into this lottery of fun, you are sure to draw out a prize. These
Traits ' exhibit most successfully the broad national features of American humour"— /'os^.

Xxxii— CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"A more charming story has rarely been written. It is a choice gift to be able thus to
render human nature so truly, to penetrate its depths with such a searching sagacity, and
to illuminate them with a radiance so eminently the writer's owa" — Times.

XXXIV.— ALEC FORBES OF Howled.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

"No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the work from the first page to the last" — Athenaeum.

"A novel of uncommon merit. Sir Walter Scott said he would advise no man to try
to read ' Clarissa Harlowe ' out loud in company if he wished to keep his character for
manly superiority to tears. We fancy a good many hardened old novel-readers will feel
a. rising in the throat as they follow the fortunes of Alec and Annie'— Pall Mall Gazette.

XXXV.— AGNES.

BY MRS. Oliphant.

'Agnes" is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former vroTka.'''—Athen(eum.

Mrs. Oliphant is one of the most admirable of our novelists. In her works there
are always to be found high principle, good taste, sense, and refinement ' Agnes ' is
a story whose, pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all readers"— Morning Post.

XXXVI.— A NOBLE LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OP " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"Few men and no women will read 'A Noble Life' without feeling themselves the
better for the eHorV'— Spectator.

A beautifully written and touching tale. It is a noble hook"— Morning Post.

' A Noble Life ' is remarkable for the high types of character it presents, and the
skill with which they are made to work out a story of powerful and pathetic interest"
—Daily News.

XXXVII— NEW AMERICA.

BY W. HEPWORTH DIXON.

"A very interesting book. Mr. Dixon has written thoughtfully and \re\V'— Times.
"We recommend everyone who feels any interest in human nature to read Mr.
Dixon's very interesting hook"— Saturday Review.



XXXVIII.— ROBERT FALCONER.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

'robert Falconer' is a work brimful of life aud humour and of the deepest human
interest. It is a book to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts aud feelings." — Athenaeum.

XXXIX.— THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, Gentlemen."

'" The Woman's Kingdom ' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the purest
and noblest kind of domestic stories." — Athenaeum.

' The Woman's Kingdom ' is remarkable for its romantic interest The characters are
masterpieces. Edna is worthy of the hand that drew John Halifax." — Morning Post.

XL.— ANNALS OF AN EVENTFUL LIFE.

BY GEORGE ^YEBBE DASENT, D.C.L.

"A racy, well-written, and original novel The interest never flags. The whole work
sparkles with wit and humour." — Quarterly Review.

XLI —DAVID ELGINBROD.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

"A novel which is the work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of
readers"— 2Y/n«.

XLII.— A BRAVE LADY.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"We earnestly recommend this novel. It is a special and worthy specimen of the
authors remarkable powers. The reader's attention never for a moment flags." — Post.

'"A Brave Lady' thoroughly rivets the unmingled sympathy of the reader, and her
history deserves to stand foremost among the author's works." — Daily Telegraph.

XLIII.— HANNAH.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a wide
circle of readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty. ' — Standard.

"A powerful novel of social and domestic life. One of the most successful efforts of a
successful novelist" — Daily News.

XLIV.— SAM SLICK'S AMERICANS AT HOME.

This is one of the most amusing books that wo ever xandL" —Standard.
' The Americans at Home " will not be less popular than any of Judge Halliburton's
previous works'" — Morning Post.

XLV.— THE UNKIND WORD.

5>

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

These stories are gems of narrative. Indeed, some of them, in their touching grace
and simplicity, seem to us to possess a charm even beyond the authoress's most popular
novels. Of none of them can this be said more emphatically than of that whish opens the
series, ' The Unkind Word.' It is wonderful to see the imaginative power displayed in
the few delicate touches by which this successful love-story is sketched out"— 27»< £clio.



Xlvi— A ROSE IN JUNE.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

' A Rose in June ' is as pretty as its title. The story ia one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and nay hold its own
with even 'The Chronicles of Carlingford.' " — Times.

Xlvi— MY LITTLE LADY.

BY E. FRANCES Pointer.

"This story presents a number of vivid and very charming pictures Indeed, the whole
book is charming. It is interesting in both character and story, and thoroughly good ol
its kind." — Saturday Review.

XLVIII.— Phoebe, JUNIOR.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
"This last 'Chronicle of Carlingford' not merely takes rank fairly beside the first
which introduced us to 'Salem Chapel,' but surpasses all the intermediate records.
Phoebe, Junior, herself is admirably drawn." — Academy.

XLIX.— LIFE OF MARIE ANTOINETTE.

BY PROFESSOR CHARLES DUKE YONGE.

"A work of remarkable merit and interest, which will, we doubt not, become the most
popular English history of Marie Antoinette"— .Spectator.

L.— SIR GIBBIE.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

' Sir Gibbie ' is a book of genius." — Pall Mall Gazette.
This book has power, pathos, and humour." — Athenaeum.

LI.— YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'Young Mrs. Jardine ' is a pretty story, written in pure English." — The Times.

There is much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and wholesome." — Athenaeum.

LII.— LORD Brandenburg.

BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

"A very readable story. The author has well conceived the purpose of high-class
novel-writing, and succeeded in no small measure in attaining it. There is plenty of
variety, cheerful dialogue, and general ' verve ' in the book." — Athenaeum.

Liii-IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS LASS.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"In' It was a Lover and his Lass,' we admire Mrs. Oliphant exceedingly. It would be
worth reading a second time, were it only for the sake of one ancient Scottish spinster,
who is nearly the counterpart of the admirable Mrs. Margaret Maitland." — Times.

LIV.— THE REAL LORD BYRON— THE STORY OF
THE POET'S LIFE.

BY JOHN Corny Jefferson.

Mr. Jeaffreson comes forward with a narrative which must take a very important
place in Byronic literature ; and it may reasonably be anticipated that this book will be
regarded with deep interest by all who are concerned in the works and the fame of this
great English poet" — The Times.



iii iiiii^

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois-URBANA

3 0112 041701704

,1^^:

m,

:.::fli;^!li;i;|:;;5a

,i*i»:»,:, :> : ti JiUii'iK)

-'•J'?#W^l^'.•■''>K''lL■'.

'^m
