AND

OTHER TALES

VOL. I.

AND

OTHER TALES

BT

THE EARL OF DESART

AUTHOR OF

THE HONOURABLE ELLA,"
Coverdale,"

&c., &c.

IN Three VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1880.

All rights reserved.

PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD,

BLENHEIM HOUSE.

Vel.

MERYYN O'CONNOR.

rl

4-

VOL. I. B

S^"

CHAPTER I.

I INTRODUCE MYSELF TO THE READER.

HOME for the holidays! What a delightful
fact that was ! How one
revelled in the sight of the familiar scenes,
of the loved faces, in the old amusements
that seemed to lose half their flavour when
transplanted to school ! Everybody knows
how far more delightful was that impromptu
game of cricket, with a rolled-up piece of
newspaper for a ball and a book for bat —
which, perhaps, was the outcome of the
emancipated schoolboy's wish to show his

B 2

joy at being again at home — than the most
elaborately prepared and solemnly played
game of school cricket, with all its fame
and after-description in local papers and
grand luncheon and white flannels. After
going through this ceremony in a passage —
the first parental greetings being over — it
was the custom of Arthur and myself to
proceed hurriedly, but very systematically,
to various points of vantage — the old schoolroom,
the first landing of the grand staircase,
the servants' hall, the stable-yard, the
orchard, and the steps in front of the hall
door, and then, waving our caps, to give
three hearty cheers at each place. That
ceremony over, I think the housekeeper's
room was visited, and our dinner duly
spoiled by 'clumps of delight" and such
delicacies, which caused us to blush over
our past infatuation for those unlovely
buUs'-eyes which formed the only sweet
stock in the village shop hard by our
school.

Home for the holidays ! How seldom
one can manage to get home for the holidays
in after-years ! A bit of the drudgery
of every-day life — of our grown-up school
work — clings to us, go where we will ;
trouble obtrudes itself triumphantly in those
moments which we have carefully arranged
should be all pleasure, and we are apt to
remember, in the very midst of our most
careless gaiety, that awkward crack in our
heart, received so long ago, but never to
heal again. »

And yet I am inclined to doubt whether
child-life is quite so happy as it is the fashion
to esteem it. If our child joys are very
pure and sweet, so are our child woes
exceedingly piteous.

An afternoon's dull despair over an un-double
sum, with the sound of our luckier
companion's play in our ears, and with the
certain prospect of a flogging in the not
remote future, is forgotten — the flogging
over — in the next day's freedom and jollity

; but, nevertheless, during the sad time
the little heart has ached very sorely, and
the tears shed over those accursed figures
have been bitter enough.

We, Arthur and Mervin O'Connor, were
as happy as children could well hope to be.
Arthur was the elder, and had, at the age
of two, inherited the baronetcy, while the
rents rolled up into a goodly sum for his
coming of age, not much lessened by the
jointure drawn from them by our mother,
with whom we lived at the old place in
Ireland.

She, my mother, was then, and is still,
my ideal of feminine beauty. She had
married v/hen very young, and lost her
husband in two years' time. I was often
told that she never quite recovered her
looks after this grief; but as I first remembered
her, tall and slender, with a far-away
look in her great dark eyes, and a grace of
movement beyond describing, she was beautiful
enough in all conscience.

She was a curious mixture of worldly
wisdom and worldly ignorance. Had she
acted up to her own precepts she would
have been wise beyond the wisdom of women,
but unfortunately she always forgot
to apply in her own case the knowledge she
possessed. Having as a girl astonished and
rather disgusted her parents by her very
practical, not to say sordid, ideas about
settling herself well in life, she proceeded
to fall desperately in love with the third
son of an Irish baronet of no very great
fortune, and threatened to die incontinently
unless permitted to marry him. Her parents
honest Somersetshire folk, who read the
novels of the last century, and believed,
perhaps, in death of a broken heart — gave
their consent with some misgiving, buoyed
up a little by the energetic manner in which
the young bride made plans for economical
living in the wedding state, and therefore
proportionately cast down when — not very
many months had elapsed — the sad story

of debt and difficulty began to be unfolded.
But just as things were looking blackest,
when the second boy had been born, and
it was considered probable that his father
would become a permanent inmate of a
debtors' prison, the baronet and his eldest
son managed to be carried off by fever, and
my mother became Lady O'Connor, with
an income and a carriage.

Hardly, however, was the ink dry of the
letter in which she vindicated to her parents
her foreseeing prudence, when she was left
a widow. Sir Arthur, my father, who was
in an infantry regiment, had sent in his
papers, and intended to set up as a country
gentleman. His brother officers gave him
a farewell dinner, at which, as was the
custom in those days, a vast amount of
wine was drunk. The evening was wound
up with some pistol practice in his room, at
a mark he was accustomed to shoot at. In
the morning the gay party staggered to
their quarters to bed, leaving my father. A

few hours after, when the servant went to
wake him up for his journey to his wife
and family, who had preceded him to Ireland,
he was lying — still dressed in uniform
stone dead, with a bullet-mark in the
temple. The sad accident made a good
deal of stir ; sensible people shook their
heads at the folly of pistol-shooting after a
heavy dinner ; and poor Lady O'Connor
was a widow.

Everyone — that is, everyone interested
in the hatter — agreed that, after her first
outburst of grief and horror, she behaved
very well. When my father's great friend,
Bayley North, who was junior to him in
the regiment, and who was generally esteemed
the best-looking, cleverest boy in
the Array, came over to Ireland with those
few little things of my father's which no
doubt he thought she would like to receive
from a friend's hand, and also probably for
the purpose of telling her all he could of
her husband's last days on earth, she certainly

shut herself up and refused to see
him ; but after all, in her great grief, this
was allowed to be only natural, and Mr.
North returned without exchanging a word
with his friend's widow.

Her determination not to re-marry, much
as it might vex the souls of many admirers
of her beauty and her jointure, also gave
pleasure to the family ; and the way in
which she devoted herself, body and soul,
to the welfare of her two little sons took
the admiration of all. We learned from
her only, until, clad in the shortest of jackets
and armed with an undue share of pocket-moneys,
we went to school to forget all we
had so learnt, and to be taught instead how
to play at cricket and football, how to evade
the best efforts of our masters to teach us,
and how to tell a lie.

That Arthur — who was utterly unlike
me — was her favourite, I always knew; but
even to my boyish comprehension it was
plain that she struggled incessantly against

her predilection in this respect, and was
determined that, whatever her heart might
prompt, she would allow no material difference
to exist between her treatment of him
and of me. But that he had her heart on
his side I knew ; and the first bitter feelings
I remember sprang from this source.

One day my pony ran away with me in the
park, and the animal perhaps naturally supposing
that, if he could pass under a bough of
a tree, there was no duty incumbent on him
of calculating whether I on his back could
do the same, I was swept off with some
violence, and picked up by the old steward,
who happened to be passing by, and by my
frightened elder brother, and conveyed,
with a face covered with blood, homewards.

The steward went into my mother's room
first to prepare her for the unlovely sight,
and rather bungled his opening remarks.

Arthur 1" I heard her cry out, as I stood
at the door more frightened than hurt, and
conscious withal of some proper pride in my

wounded face — 'arthur hurt! Where is
he? Oh, my boy!"

'' It is not Sir Arthur," said the old man ;
it is Master Mervin."

"Mervin, is it?" And the alteration
in her tone hurts me even now to recalL
Where is he ?" And then, when ray face
had been washed, and the damage discovered
not to be excessive, it was Arthur, not
me, that she folded in a passionate embrace;
it was for him, I felt, not for me, that her
lips moved in prayer.

I had all the external sympathy he would
have had, and the same excusing of lessons,
the same amount of plaister, the same little
indulgences of an invalid, the same glory of
a big arm-chair, and of breakfast in bed ;
but there was a something he would have
had which it was out of her power to give
me. Child as I was, I felt rather than
knew this truth, and that night I cried myself
to sleep, and took no pleasure in being
the hero of my first accident.

I will pass over the rest of my boyhood
as briefly as possible. Arthur and I were
seldom apart long. We left our private
school together, and were placed — thanks
to my being a little quicker than he at my
books — in the same division at Harrison
College, where we learned a little, and
rowed a good deal, and smoked our first
pipes, and got flogged, and enjoyed ourselves
as Harreton boys always do. One
incident of the time I may recount, not that
it made any great impression upon me then,
but because it has a bearing on some of the
after-events to be unfolded in this history.

One day my tutor came into the pupil-room,
where I was vainly struggling with a
most perverse copy of verses, into which
false quantities would come as persistently
as Charles I. into Mr. Dick's memorial, and
told me to go to his room, where a gentleman
wished to see me.

I rose and waited for Arthur to accompany
me, the idea of anyone wishing to seeme,

and not him, being preposterous. I
wondered meanwhile which of my few
*' gentlemen" acquaintances it might be, and
what the " tip " ready in his pocket ; for the
'' half" was far gone and the " tick " score
at the "sock "shop had assumed alarming
dimensions.

''No, only you — O'Connor minor," said
•my tutor, observing my glance. And I
went alone, wondering.

*'So you're Mervin O'Connor," said a
wonderfully smartly-clad man of middle age
(as I then deemed it — probably he was
about thirty-one). "Come, let me have a
look at sou. Yes, devilish like her — devilish
like her." And, as he drew me towards
him, I was quite struck by the tender expression
in his eyes, and for the moment forbore
my speculations as to the forthcoming 'tip."

He asked me several questions, but not
one about Arthur, and cross-examined me
closely as to my home-life, and then dismissed

me with two things that surprised
me vastly. One was a kiss — a kiss from
a middle-aged stranger, and to me a Har
eton boy! — the other was a five-pound
note.

The delight in swaggering into old
Brown s '* sock " shop and demanding change
in a proud voice, wherewith to settle my
tick — the tick which had caused me many
sleepless nights and many dreams of impecunious
horror — quite expunged all recollection
of the insulting kiss ; and the admiring
envy of my schoolfellows, not one of
whom had ever received so splendid a
*' tip " from a stranger, made a very proud
boy of me that day.

But the story had its sequel. Not many
greeks afterwards came a letter from my
mother, written in a tone that was new tome,
in her.

She had been, she said, very much
annoyed to hear that I had been permitted

to see a gentleman with whom she never
wished me to become acquainted, and she
warned me most impressively against an undue
readiness to make undesirable friends.

I do not say that in this case it was
entirely your fault, my dear Mervin ; but I
think it right to warn you that I shall be
very angry if I ever hear of your seeing Mr.
North again."

My tutor, who, it now seems to me, was
not overburdened by a strict sense of
justice, subsequently said to me, with much
asperity,

'what did you mean by saying you
knew that gentleman, who called for you
the other day, at home ?"

"Please, sir, I never said so," I stammered.


*' Do not add to your fault by prevarication,
sir. That will do ;" and I was released,
a little perplexed, but gathering
from this incident that he also had received
from my mother a " wigging," as I called it.

My conscience pricked me a little about the
five-pound note ; but, as it was spent, I sawn
use in saying anything on the subject.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER II.

I ENTER HER MAJESTy's SERVICE.

T3ALLYCONOR, our home, to which, on
-"-^ the occasion of which I write, we had
come for our last holidays, Harreton being
outgrown, was very like many hundreds of
other Squires' houses in the South of Ireland.


Of course it was called a castle, on the
lucas a non lucendo principle, for anything
less like a castle than the ugly, square,
barrack-looking house can scarcely be imagined
though, perhaps, some ominous-looking
slits in the iron shutters on the first
floor may have given a certain martial

appearance to it in observant eyes. These
had been made as the iron shutters had
been put up in the old troublous times,
when an attack on a landlord's residence
was a very usual way of finishing a pleasant
evening, and when agent-shooting in the
high-road was a most flourishing and exciting
sport of " the boys," and had the merit
of a safety which is denied to the battle
shooters of the present day, with whom
blind eyes are so common.

At Ballyconor, besides ray mother, resided
an old friend of the family, a Colonel
Gilbeau — Archie Gilbeau, as everyone called
him — whom we all loved. He called himself
a blase, disappointed, soured man, and
we humoured him as much as possible in
this idea, and ignored whenever we could
the fact that in his intense enjoyment of life,
of the very fact of living, and in his boyish
glee at the smallest pleasure, he far surpassed
either Arthur or myself.

Then there was Jim Leary, the agent,

c 2

who helped us to hunt our little pack of
harriers, had taught us how to train our
ponies over a country, and who was also
supposed — Heaven save the mark ! — to
teach us the ins and outs of estate management.
A dear good creature was Jim
Leary, but with somewhat mixed ideas.

^' You see," he would say, putting on his
business face, and poring over an enormous
rental, 'you see, now, the Ballyglass estate
brings in two thousand, and the Ballyhunter
one thousand three hundred ; well, then —
bad cess to it, I forgot to tell them before
leaving home to take that colt in — did ye
see his leg, Arthur? Well, to resume; will
you attend to me, av ye phase, Mr. Mervin
and not look out of window ; ye can seethe
horses exercising any other morning.
Oh, blazes ! the chestnut's lame — lame behind
; don't you perceive it, Mervin ? Never
mind ; that must keep. As I was saying,
the Ballyglass estate bringing in — now I've
lost the place — was it two thousand or three

thousand I said ? By the wa}-, Arthur, did
they give the bay pony that ball, and is he
coughing still ? Ah, here's her ladyship !"
and, much relieved, the worthy man would
rise to his full height of six feet one and
greet my mother, who came sailing in to
see how our studies were progressing. I
scarcely think she much believed in their
reality, but at any rate they kept us sitting
on our chairs for a couple of hours per diem,
and diminished by that amount of time our
chances of breaking our necks. •

And wonderful was the way in which we
screwed our well-bred ponies — always by
thorough-bred sires — over those ugly stone-faced
banks, and through, rather than over,
those enormous ditches. Jim Leary, on a
flea-bitten grey mare that could creep like
a cat, would have followed her master even
though he had, like Mr. Charles Reade's
villain, taken to dancing the rogue's march
on a razor's edge, and was even supposed to
be able to talk to him during his long visits

to her ill the stable, never looked back to
see whether we had followed him, let the
fence be ever so big ; and as to his fallings
it was unknown. The grey had five legs,
and would have used her nose and her tail
rather than fall upon her master, we honestly
believed.

Those hunting days were very happy. I
can feel asrain now, as I sit lonely and losing
for the end of all, the glow of satisfaction
that came over us three as we rode
home one evening with a fox's brush hidden
away in Jim's capacious shooting-jacket
pocket, after a steady hunting run of about
twelve miles, in which we had triumphed
over our quarry by dint of sheer perseverance
and nose. Horse and ponies could
scarcely drag themselves along ; the poor
hounds, their sterns depressed and the
tongues protruding, were quite unable to run
even the ordinary homeward jog ; and we
were pretty certain that an ill-natured
keeper knew of our accidental drawing of a

certain outlying fox-covert, into which, of
course, we were prepared, to aver a hare
had run, and that a furious letter would
very shortly reach Lady O'Connor from the
outraged M.F.H.

But guilty as we were, perhaps because
of our guilt, we were all three supremely
happy ; and as I say even now, after all the
eventful years, I still feel a reflected pleasure
at the recollection. And here, perhaps, I
may stop to make a remark which, if not
new, is to some extent true — that is, how
guilt adds to every pleasure. From the day
of the apple-eating in Paradise to that of
"shirking" in the streets of Eton, the
sense of naughtiness has given zest to the
commonest and tamest amusement. The
latter excitement has, I am told, been
abolished ; and I am quite sure that that
walk on a Sunday to the Castle Terrace— ?
where you might be, though you must never
he going there — has lost most of its charm.

Going " out of bounds " is the one universal

pleasure of humanity. You may put
all your lovely flowers into the straight,
easy, pleasant road, but the tourist will perversely
climb the fence and stray into the
fields, even though he find but stinging-nettles
there. But I must not linger longer
than necessary on the threshold of my
story, though I confess the temptation so todo
is almost irresistible.

Well, my brother and I lingered happily
through the golden hours of youth, and
never knew that each day gone took with
it so much happiness we never should see
again. We grew quickly up into tall youths
of seventeen and eighteen, and then (after
we had been at home for a whole year) a
great event happened. We both fell in
love. We had been so accustomed to do
everything in unison that at first I don't
think either of us was surprised or disconcerted
at " the object " in each case being
the same, but the inconvenience of this
arrangement soon made itself felt.

Caroline Leary came home from lier
school near Dublin to take up her abode at
her father's little house in the Park ; and
Arthur and I were knocked over all at
once.

Jim took it very philosophically. " Ye'll
git over it, my dear boys," he said one day,
having observed that we had been during
our hours of study casting looks of defiance
at each other. " Ye'll get over it. Don't
ye quarrel about a woman. There's none
of them worth it. Carry's a good girl — a
decent good girl enough — but she's not
worth a quarrel, any more than her

moth " Here he checked himself, but

we filled in the sentence easily enough ;
knowing the commonly-reported history of
the late Mrs. Leary, who loved whisky with
more than Celtic ardour, and died for it
like a true patriot.

But we did quarrel about Carry Leary,
nevertheless ; for one whole week not a
syllable did we exchange, except when

obliged to do so by the exigencies of the
chase, or in our mother's presence. I remember
even on one occasion during this
silent week, when I was as usual doing
huntsman and Arthur was first whip (for I
was rather quicker at the thing than
he), my riding up to him and remarking
in my very best and most courteously cutting
manner — 'have the goodness, Sir Arthur,
to put Pillager and Pleiad to me ; they are
running heel ;" but then on that day I had
actually seen her pin a bunch of violets in his
button-hole, while my coat was flowerless !

At last I spoke. " Carry," I said, holding
her hand, and trying to remember how
Lord Floribel in that sweet novel, "The
Marquis's Mistake ; or, The Broken Heart,"
addressed his ladylove ('' Adorable Leary !"
would have been the formula had I remembered
it), " I love you. So does Arthur.
But I love you best ! Tell me I do not love
in vain !"

Dear nie, Mr. Mervin !" giggled the
girl, with not even a blush on her cheek ;
*' i'm engaged to Captain O'Slathery, of
the Royal Buffs. Didn't ye know it, now ?
I thought all Dublin knew it, after the Castle
ball, when he popped. Don't ye know the
Captain ? They say he can ride to the
hounds with any man in Galway ; and his
uncle, by the mother's side, is owner of
Kilmacurragh Castle, and has a whole stable
full of blood horses."

So was my bright dream shattered ! Thus
ruthlessly was first love in my case sent to
the four winds of heaven.

That night — over our pipes — Arthur and
I vowed an eternal friendship : an alliance,
defensive, perhaps, we savagely hinted, also
offensive, to resist and overcome the wiles
of faithless women ; but it was long before
either could drop in as before at JimLeary's
cottage, and longer still before we could
laugh and joke as before with his bright-eyed,

cheery-checked, strongly-brogue
daughter.

Jim went into fits of laughter when I
confided to him my desillusionnement. '' The
little flirt," he said, "to catch ye both, too.
But she's a good girl, and I could trust her.
When Captain O'Slathery comes into his
estate, which at present consists of splendid
black whiskers, she'll make him a goodwife.
Steer mind, my boy. Maybe it's
taken the rough edge off your appetite, and
ye'll be able to sit down quietly some day
to the fashionable feast your lady mother's
preparing for you in London."

"In London?"

Yes — we'll hear it all soon enouiifh. But
I may as well tell you that ye're to be a
Guardsman."

Why, when was that decided ? And
Arthur ?"

Oh, he'll be a country gentleman."

A Guardsman — when did you hear
it?"

I heard her Ladyship and the Colonel
talking of it yesterday."

I flew to the Colonel, who was reading a
newspaper in his own especial chair in the
library.

** What's all this about me?"

"About you, Mervin — I am reading an
article on the blessings — blessings ! — of a
thing called Free Trade. I fail to see how
it can be about you."

*'No. I mean about my going into the
Guards."

'* Do you like the idea ?"

'like it! I should think so. But I
thought my mother "

Wished to keep you away from London
life. Yes, but don't you see, my dear boy,
it is impossible. Everyone gravitates there
now-a-days ; though Heaven only knows
what they find ; and if you go it would be
better you should go in a proper position.
I was in the Fourth Guards, you know, and
wretched enough I was ; but still, if you are

to be wretched, you may as well be
wretched in the Fourth Guards as any other
-way."

I believe 3'ou had great fun in those
old days, Colonel Gilbeau," I said, a little
maliciously, for it was a safe draw.

Fun !" and he sat up with some ferocity,
and threw away his newspaper. " I was a
headstrong, stupid, heartless young scoundrel,
sir. I ran about London coins as much
harm to myself and everyone else as I could.
Fun ! The recollection of all the stupid
things I did in those days makes me quite —
egad !" and here he burst out laughing —
"they were funny some of them, too. Did
I ever tell you how we shaved off one of
old McCorquodale's whiskers, and painted
his noise bright red, and took him to
Alack's, and how the Duchess of Devon-dale
made the Duke call him out, and they
fired seventeen shots at each other with
bread bullets ?"

''No, Colonel," said 1, who knew the

story, and those which were sure to follow,
but rather enjoyed them nevertheless.

Then, when he had run down, having
given me a host of reminiscences, and
having relapsed into his deprecation of such
doings, I betook me to my mother.

Yes, Mervin," she said, looking at me
with those melancholy eyes ; '*' yes, I will
not be selfish enough to do as I would wish
and keep you in leading-strings here.
Arthur, as owner of the place, with duties todo,
will very fitly stay here and learn those
duties, after he has seen something of lifo"
abroad. But for you, with a very limited
income, a profession is necessary, and that
of — of your father is the fittest." Lie
mentioned the name of my father with an
evident effort. Indeed, it was but seldom
she could recall him without an outburst of
grief terrible to witness.

*' Yes, mother, I shall delight in it."
** Of course, I shall be blamed — I have
already been blamed — for placing you in so

expensive a regiment as this; but Archie''
she waved her hand towards the library —
Archie declares that with little care a young
man can live cheaper in London than elsewhere,
as he has no mess expenses ; and I
can recollect how dreadful those mess
expenses were. Besides, Archie is actually
going to live in London on purpose to offer
you a home. He has bought a little house
in Park Lane."

Colonel Gilbeau live in London again ?''

Yes*' said ray mother, with a slight flush
upon her face ; yes, he thinks — and I am
not sure that I quite disagree with him —
that he has made this his home long enough.
You see, Mervin " — and here the blush
became deeper — "although I am, of course,
quite an old woman "

"No, mother 1"

"Yes, I am thirty-five next birthday.
Even at that age one is not safe from ill-natured
talk ; and, although dear Archie is
more my elder brother than anything else,

still for your sakes, my dear boys, I would
rather that no one should have even the
remotest right to say anything. So — well,
so Archie is going to make a home for you
in London; and I hope you'll always be
good to him, and try to make him happy."

Her eyes filled with tears as she spoke,
and I vowed, with a little surprise, considering
my mother was a little apt to
grumble at the Colonel's melancholy sentiments
and noisy ebullition of amusement,
that I would make him as happy as he would
let me.

It was rather curious that for some time
it never struck one of us that there was yet
the little preliminary of an examination to
be passed. I had done well enough at
Harreton to be considered a very clever
boy, and no one dreamed of doubting that
I could manage this with ease. But at
length the conclusion was come to that I
had better make sure by going for a short
time to what was vulgarly called a '* cram-vol.

I. D

mer's " near London ; and thither, after our
grand final day with the Ballyconor Harriers,
at which even Colonel Gilbeau assisted,
and rode with such vehemence that on two
occasions he arrived over a fence in advance
of his horse — a steady old Tory of a horse,
that always looked many times before leaping
— I went, saddened at least the first five
miles of my journey by seeing the fond look
which my mother, after waving an adieu tome,
turned upon Arthur.

It is my hope that the reader of the following
pages, will, before I have gone far,
understand pretty accurately the character
of the writer. Suffice it now to say that I
was, at the time of which I write, a credulous,
high-spirited, well-meaning youth ;
with a certain amount of quickness of
apprehension, with a lively sense of humour,
and a blind faith in my fellow-creatures,
and in goodness generally ; and endowed
with a passionate longing for affection and

for popularity which bade fair to give me
many a pang.

There are many boys, such as I then was,
every day being launched upon the troubled
sea of life ; every day learning, with infinite
sadness, the hard lessons of experience ;
every day gulping down those sentiments
(sweet and good enough in themselves) that
are too soft, too delicate for every-day use ;
every day discovering that the battle here is
each for himself; that Vce victim is the cry
that sounds loudest over the field of strife ;
and to each one of them I would say — ray.
excuse being my experience — Do not harden
because others are hard ; do not disbelieve
because you are betrayed ; do not be aggressive
because others, even your friends,
war against you. Keep, oh ! keep — for it
is your dearest possession — every bit of
credulity and softness that you can ; cherish
those feelings that provoke such shame at
first in you, and such sneering in others.

d2

There may coin a time when all the glory,
all the cynicism, all the proud independence
of worldliness will pass away from you, and
leave you, if you have no fund of honest
feeling to fall back upon, poor indeed.

Because you have tasted so much Dead
Sea fruit, do not believe there is no sweetness
in the garden ; because the evading,
though apparent, nearness of the mountain
top mocks your climbing ambition, do not
desist in the attempt, do not sit down and
mock the intrepid mountaineer.

Good there is a top, though you may have
hitherto failed to find it ; good there is thai
you can and slialljindy if you only search on.
Call this life what you will, after your cynical
friends' gibes, after your bitterest disappointments,
there is a heaven in it ; but part
of that heaven, or of the power of knowing
of it, is in your own heart.

When, reader, you have seen what manner
of man it is, and how situated, who
writes these lines, you may turn back to

them and say to yourself that, if I can write
so, it is difficult to doubt the truth of it.

After this digression I will simply add
that I got through my examination, and in
May, 1865, was gazetted to a commission in
Her Majesty's Fourth Foot Guards. A
letter I received a few days afterwards from
my uncle, James O'Connor, I reserve for
another chapter.

CHAPTER III.

UNCLE JAMES.

T T was with some surprise that I received
-*- this letter from ray uncle James. His
name was scarcely ever mentioned amongst
us, and we all had a vague idea that he had
committed some atrocious crime. My
mother never alluded to him, save when
obliged to do so with Jim Leary, for business
reasons ; and when she did so it was
with such an accent of scorn that Arthur and
I felt that it was incumbent on us to hate
him and despise him. He lived, as we
gathered, in a wild, mad, bad manner in a
suburb of London, and did intense harm

under a pretence of doing intense good.
What the harm he did was, or what good
he simulated the doing of, we knew not.
Enough for us that our mother disliked
him. He must be a villain. And yet even
then his letter did not seem altogether villainous
to me. It certainly was not an
enlivening one — it certainly did not present
life to me in a very inviting aspect ; but
there seemed, even to me, something in its
tone which rather upset my mental pictures
of the scoundrel uncle.

*' Was he not fond of my father ?" I once
asked my mother.

She shivered.

Yes — no — how can I tell ? Your
uncle James was not easily understood.
Your father thought he was fond of him."

o

But you know he wasn't ?" cried I,
boy-like, jumping to a conclusion.

My mother rose with that grace that
always fascinated me, and which, indeed, I
have never seen since equalled.

My dear Mervin, there are some things
which it is better not to speak of — for me —
and for you."

Then she sighed and swept away.
In my recollection of her, more vivid even
than her grace, her sweet temper, and her
justice, if not fondness, for me, is the
memory of the air of mystery which hung
about her. That there was some secret
attached to her I had instinctively felt since
I had the power to feel anything ; and here
was my uncle James come in to intensify it.
I hated him worse than ever.

Colonel Gilbeau," I said, bursting in
upon that gentleman, as he read a novel,
^' tell me, is my uncle James a blackguard,
and what has he done to my mother ?"

The Colonel looked up lazily, with his
usual air of uncomplaining misery, a little
spoiled by the irrepressible twinkle in his
eye.

''A blackguard! What a word! My
dear Mervin, there is every kind of guard

in the world : a Horse Guard, a Foot Guard
like you, a railway guard, a guard for your
watch-chain, a camp guard, and many others,
only there is no such thing as a blackguard,
except as snufF — except as snuff," he repeated,
reflectively, turning to his book.

Colonel Gilbeau, I should mention, was
an inveterate snufF-taker, and this was the
one and only point on which he and my
Another fell out.

But you have left my second question
unanswered," I said, doggedly, sitting down
opposite him.

He laid down his book with a sigh.,

^ How absolute the knave is !' as Hamlet
says of the grave-digger. Well, I will speak
by the card. James O'Connor has always
been serious. Probably he was born too
serious to squall. As a boy 1 don t doubt
he never played like other boys. He analysed
their games, and found them full of
nothingness. If a boy could play with a
doll " — (and here the Colonel glanced at me

to accentuate a very old joke against me) —
"and he bad been such an extraordinary
boy, he would have opened it, and wept
over the sawdust inside. He "

Why, Colonel Gilbeau," I exclaimed,
starting up, " he is exactly like you !"

This was a palpable hit, and the Colonel
was obliged to have a pinch of snuff to
arrange his answer.

*' No, distinguish " — (as if a boy could
distinguish ; lines are all miles broad to
him!) — "I know life thoroughly. I have
done everything ; seen everything. I know
it's all humbug ; but I am ready to acknowledge
the value of humbug. Your uncle
knows nothing, has seen nothing, has made
up his mind that things generally are humbug,
and that humbug has no merits. It's
like a fellow abusing cookery when he has
never dined at the Cafe Anglais."

'but what does he do ?" I persisted.

Do ? He is a philanthropist. A man
who supposes that, although unable to make

himself, that he knows a little, happy, he is
still able to make others so, knowing them
not at all."

'' And who does he philanthropist ?" inquired
I, reckless of language.

Dirty people who hate him for it. I
think the cruelty of taking a jovial young
thief away from his amusing profession and
animated friends and making a bad, respectable
pauper of him — half knave, half coward
is about as great as — as that hunt you
had last year after a three-legged fox."

He wasn't three-legged !" I answered
hotly ; and then we forgot all about Uncle
James, and wandered off into an abstruse
argument as to the legitimacy of putting
down a bag fox before harriers — a crime
concerning which Colonel Gilbeau (who
cherished recollections of Melton in the days
when Lord Gardner rode the crop-eared
horse, and Lord Wilton jfiew over a country,
and " the " Lord Waterford jumped unnecessary
gates, and young Lord Grey de

Wilton rode into unnecessary ponds — vide
the well-known picture) was wont to chaff
the members of the Ballyconor Hare Hunt
Club most unmercifully.

Here is the letter which gave rise to
my questionings concerning ray unknown
uncle : —

Manor Lodge, Wandsworth.

'* My dear Nephew,

*' It was with much surprise,
and, I will add, with some disapprobation,
that I saw the announcement in the papers
of your appointment to a regiment of the
Guards.

To begin with, as the vouns^er son of a
family not too well supplied with the world's
goods, you should, if you must enter the
Army, have gone into a less expensive corps.
Secondly, your mother should have known
that, of all places on earth, London was the
last where yoa should be placed.

To you, on the threshold of life, it is no

doubt useless for me to speak of the insidious
temptation, the terrible excitement, that
will await you in the capital of pleasure. I
do not suppose you would listen to me ; I
am sure you would not believe me. Your
first idea would be that this was what was
always said to young men, generally by
those who contemned the pleasures they
had outgrown. Your second would be that
I, who never mingled amongst people such
as you are about to live with, can give on
the subject no opinion worth taking. And
yet I believe that I do know much that it
will take you much time and cost you much
pain to learn. I believe that human nature
is much the same in all classes, and I therefore
write asking you, as a favour to me,
not to tear up my letter, but to read it again
some day when perhaps you are wearied
with enjoyment or disgusted by disappointment.
Now you can scarcely believe I
speak the truth. Then, perhaps, you will
be obliged to own it.

For, Mervin O'Connor, I am interested
in your fate, and I would, if I could, save
you some of the agony that has come to me.

You laugh at the word ' agony ' now ;
you are young and strong and healthy.
The world in its fairest aspect is before you.
^ He jests at scars that never felt a wound.'

^' But, jest as you may, that is no reason
why you should unnecessarily incur the
danger of the wound.

*' Mervin O'Connor, my brother Arthur
would have spoken to you as I am about to
speak, were he alive. His father — ay, and
his father again before him — would join mein
my warning could they re-visit the earth.
You are young, ardent, no doubt longing to
open that book which holds in its pages the
magic mystery called ' love.' Beware of
turning a leaf. There are death, misery,
destruction there for you. Disbelieve those
who tell you that ' love ' is one of the
heavenly attributes of our nature ; without
love, in that sense, the world would be pure.

It is the degraded sentiment which we vainly
try to exalt by calling it pretty names, and
invoking the blandishments and tricks of
poets, that keeps us near akin to the brute
beasts. Mervin O'Connor, if you must
love, love some one in whom there is nothing
that you can respect, whose memory
shall be as easily wiped out as the memory
of your yesterday's dinner. Throw aside
the silly trash called ' sentiment.'

Do not let any woman's eyes, or words,
or lying vov/s come between you and the
business of life. As regards women, be
cynical — you cannot be too much so. I
write for you alone when I say that they
are fatal. Would I could tell you more ;
but there are grave and sufficient reasons
why I must stop short of that. But believe
me when I do tell you that the very day
you allow your senses to be carried captive
by a woman will be the first day of your
utter ruin — body and soul.

Perhaps I might as well preach to the

winds as write thus to you ; but I do it on
the chance. You may have sufficient sense
to take my warning. You may not be
prejudiced against me, and may believe in
my good wishes. I once was as you now
are, and stood, panting with pleasurable
excitement, at the opening of life. I stood
so but a short time. The Fates overtook

me almost before I had entered, and

Some day, perhaps, you will find your way
up to see me in this far-off region, and I
may then be able to tell you more. Believe
me, there is more in my words than the
ordinary warning of an elderly man who
has survived his pleasures. You are — much
against my will — going into what is called
Society ; and going into it under the most
fatal auspices. I hear you are good-looking ;
would to God you were loathsome to look
upon ! It would be for your good. I hear
you are agreeable in women's society ;
would you were dumb ! I hear you are
ardent and enthusiastic ; you are doomed !

Yet, no ; it is barely possible that you may
listen to my words — it is barely possible
that it may be given to me to save you from
The Curse. Remember what I have asked
you. Keep this letter, and read it again
some day. I do not ask you to come and
see me when you reach London. It would
be better for us not to meet yet. In due
time we shall do so. Pray God we may
meet without having the knowledge of
another victim. Tell your mother that I
shall be glad to hear, through Gil beau or
through North, what are the plans concerning
Arthur. From reports I hear concerning
him, he is not in your danger. This
letter I beg you to consider private.
Your Uncle,

'* James O'Connor."

Mad," I said to myself, after perusing
this extraordinary epistle ; ** quite mad. As
far as I can make out, I am not to see any
women in London. Poor fellow! I sup-vol.

I. E

pose he has been thrown over — and that's
the reason for his odd life."

Questioning Colonel Gilbeau in the smoke
that night, I scarcely cleared up the
mystery to my satisfaction.

"No, he's not mad," said the Colonel,
puffing at his pipe. " Strange, if you
please, but not mad. He was about
as good-looking a young fellow as ever
there was seen — better-looking than poor
Arthur your father, by a long way. He
went to Rome before going to the Bar — at
least I think that was to have been his profession
— and there was some mysterious
business there — of course with a woman in
it. No one ever quite knew the rights of it,
only he came back to England a perfectly
changed man, or rather boy, aged by ten
years, they said, and then he quarrelled with
your father. What about no one knew.
All I do know is that the only communication
that ever again took place between them
was just before your poor father's death.

A letter addressed to your uncle was found
on his table after that sad accident — alongside
one to your mother — and was forwarded
to lira. For Heaven knows how
many years James O'Connor has lived a sort
of recluse life, doing a great deal of good ina
stupid way — at least it seems stupid to me :
for surely there are enough unconnected
persons to help without giving it all to
scoundrels — but never seeing a woman. For
that reason he has built a high wall round
his place at Wandsworth, and never stirs
outside it. There is a story that some
wag once threw a lady's photograph — an
actress's, I think — over the wall, and caused
your uncle to go to bed for a month." And
Colonel Gilbeau laughed grimly to himself

*' That would suit you. Colonel," said Arthur,
smiling at me.

No, my dear boy. You, like Mervin,
are afflicted with the boyish inability to distinguish
subtle shades of difference. I despise
women — exceptions your mother and

-'^ e2

mine, and, in fact, everybody's mother — but
I do not mind meeting them and confounding
their schemes. To run away is a confession
of weakness. I have never run away
from a woman, except — — "

Except when ?" I cried, knowing that a
story lay behind his hesitation.

'^ Well — between ourselves, my boys — on
one occasion I did run away. You see I
made a mistake — took a widow for a lady
blessed with a live husband, and therefore
allowed myself a latitude of language, and
even of action, which would have been most
reprehensible had I known the true state of
the case. Well, the lady was quite ready —
it was at a Bath hotel — and all arrangements,
down to the post-chaise, were made, when
I discovered on the very day arranged for our
flight that she wished to escape, not a jealous
husband, but a brother-in-law who would
lose money by her re-marrying. It was very
terrible."

And what did you do, Colonel Gilbeau ?"

I inquired, as he paused, overcome by the
reminiscence.

Do ? I ostensibly put off the elopement
an hour. I really ordered the chaise an
hour earlier. I redoubled my first cautions
against the possibility of pursuit, and I
eloped at eleven p.m. alone, while the fair
widow waited for the signal in her chamber.
How long she waited I don't know. I flew
to the Continent, and then another little
affair, in which I was more fortunate, soon
put this terrible business out of my mind.
But, boys," he added, as we laughed, ^* don't
think I ever enjoyed any of such follies. It
is quite sad to look back upon so terrible a
waste of time — and of sentiment." And to
show how sad it was he opened his mouth
to laugh, and in so doing let fall his pipe
upon the floor.

Emblematic," quoth he, picking it up,
and this time with real sadness in his expression
; " the only pipe I ever loved —
broken, spoiled, and useless."

Oh, no, Colonel ; a little silver "

*' You young cynic! Well, perhaps you
are right. Silver and gold v^ill mend anything.
Let somebody give me a really good
cigar."

CHAPTER IV.

THE ADJUTANT,

A LL the innumerable pleasures of hope
-^^ and imagination cling about a great
city in the eyes of a young man about to
be initiated, under favourable auspices, into
its mysteries — about to commence life, not
as one of a dull, droning congregation of
country folk, with their stale news, their
small tattle, and their narrow ideas, but asa
unit — perhaps a not undistinguished one
of a busy crowd of the men and women
who make social history, whose lives form, as
it were, the living records of the age — with
its grandeur and its meanness, its glories

and its failures. To an ardent boy such as I
was that sunny morning in May, when I
drove from Euston Square to the West-end
hotel I intended to honour by my presence
until formally installed in barracks, everything
spoke of brightness and of life — life,
not as we know it when the bloom has been
rubbed off, and things present themselves to
our vision not as they are, but as worse
than they are ; but breathing, burning,
palpitating, achieving, glorious life, such as
it ought to be, such as, alas ! it can never
be. And mingled with my restless happiness
was a spice of that pleasure which
comes, according to the amiable philosopher,
to him watching from the shore the struggles
of a friend in the sea. Look at those
wretched people hurrying to and fro in the
streets ! Poor devils ! How I pitied them !
They were not officers in Her Majesty's
Fourth Regiment of Foot Guards !

With what eagerness I scanned such

privates of the Household infantry as I
chanced to pass ! They scarcely noticed meas
I went past them now in my Hansom
cab ; but perhaps in a few days — ay, in a
few hours — I should be standing before
them in all my glory, their officer !

Alas ! I did not know how very little
majesty there is in the goose-step and other
rudiments of martial education. I had
never withered under the haughty and
scarcely-disguised contempt of a smart drill-sergeant
; I had never blushed to the roots
of my hair as I saw the covert smile go
along the ranks of my company, responsive
to some egregious blunder on my part in
telling off; I had never, then, come trembling
up with my tail — or my sword — between
my legs, and been met with the stern
reprimand, "A minute late for parade
again, sir !" from the Colonel ; I had never
sat down with a mind perfectly devoid of
imagination, or even of reasoning power, to

concoct a '' reason in writing " for the Adjutant,
in consequence of some utterly reasonless
delinquency.

The one great thing in life, says someone,
is Compromise ; but I think a still
larger part of it is taken up with disillusionments.
We begin almost at once. The
little girl who opened her doll and found
the sawdust had before that found out many
other things were not as they had seemed to
her dawning intelligence. In the black-currant
jelly lurked the insidious powder.
Under the delicious sweet wine lay darkling
the nauseous cods-liver oil. The revel
over hot elder-wine at night was followed
by the dreadful application of candle-grease
to one's insulted nose ; the delicious draught
out of our sponge while bathing was inevitably
followed by the quick correction of
the nurse's hand. Then there is the new
pony, which we find we cannot hold, and
are generally afraid of; the first gun, which
we may not load for ourself, and which

hurts our arm when fired, while the scarcely-alarmed
rabbit proceeds leisurely to his
burrow, and the keeper smiles derisively.
All disillusions — all going to add to the dull
weight of experience ultimately to crush us
down.

Even coming home for the holidays —
that grand delight of boyhood — never quite
comes up to the expected mark. In the
restraints of school we find we have exaggerated
the freedom of home life. Everything
does not give way to our enjoyment
as we fondly deemed it would ; and we discover,
to our intense astonishment and disgust,
that the pleasure of doing nothing is
not immeasurable, after all.

But to return.

Here I was, Ensign and Lieutenant in the
Fourth Guards, in the capital of England,
with a sum of £200 at my bankers, with an
annual allowance of £400 a year, and with
a splendid new uniform in a tin case. The
summit of my ambition had been reached,,

and yet, that first night in London, I was
forced, in my solitude, to make friends with
the waiter who brought me my dinner in the
dingy coffee-room.

What I expected I scarcely knew. How
the glories of London life were to come
suddenly upon me I had never considered.
I only do know that the first night of my
splendour was a very wretched one, and I
went to bed out of spirits and half-inclined
to wish myself back again at Ballyconor.

Next morning, however, brought happier
thoughts. I had sent a note to the Adjutant
over-night, and at breakfast 1 received
this reply : —

Dear O'Connor,

'' You had better come to the
orderly-room at twelve o'clock to-day — in
uniform, if you have got it.
Yours truly,

'* Henry Marx,
*' Captain and Adjutant Fourth Guards

Fully half an hour before the necessary
time I stood fully equipped on a chair before
the glass over my fireplace, prepared
to swiftly descend should I hear steps
approaching. And then came a grand
difficulty. How to hook up my sword, as
I had seen done by officers in the street, I
knew not ; if I let it clatter at my side I fell
over it, like an officer in a farce ; and if I
held it in my hand it seemed to me that I
held it more like an umbrella than an implement
of warfare. However, I think I
managed to pass by the waiter in the
passage with sufficient dignity, and, after
paying my cabman about three times his
fare — for how could an officer haggle about
small change ? — I marched across the
parade-ground, returning the salutes of the
men I met, with my heart in my mouth,
longing with much intensity that I could
only have put on a moustache with my
uniform.

The orderly-room found, I had to wait

outside for a time, while prisoners marched
in and out with their escorts — objects of
much interest to me, who wondered what
their fate might be. The sternness of
military life — I was glad I had at once seen
a little of this ; and I looked at a dissipated-looking
ruffian, scarcely recovered yet from
his previous night's debauch, as he walked
unsteadily back to the guard-room, with no
evidence in my features of my pity for him.

Oh, you're O'Connor, I suppose ?" said
a tall, fair man, coming out of the orderly-room.
" I had forgotten all about you.
Come in."

I entered, and, taking off my cap,
advanced with a genial smile to greet the
elderly gentleman at the table.

He smiled.

You're a cool hand. Nevermind. Put
on your cap. Now salute. Marx, show
him how to salute."

It was some time before I could sufficiently

recover from my gaucherie to reply
coherently to the questions put to me.
Ultimately it was decided that I could have
a room in barracks at once, and should take
possession of it and commence drill on the
morrow.

Then Marx, the Adjutant, most kindly
took me about the barracks ; introduced me
to the Sergeant-major, (who looked at me
with a superciliously critical eye, and
observed that I wanted some setting up, to
which I nearly retorted that it seemed tome
he wanted some setting down) ; and
finally, after teaching me the mystery of
hooking up a sword, and informing me that
the Colonel, or the '' C. 0.," as he called
him, was a capital fellow as long as you
never omitted any detail of military duty,
took me to his room, the comfort of which
astounded me after all I had heard of
barrack life, and proceeded to take out of
his desk a large quantity of foolscap paper.

** I think you said sou. were fond of
poetry ?" he observed, fixing me with a
somewhat glassy eye.

I had not said so ; but I would have
agreed with my Adjutant in anything, so T
nodded.

It is so seldom one meets a man who
has a soul above — above ordinary things,
you know. I really am very glad you have
come into our battalion, O'Connor."

I thanked him with effusion, and he went
on —

^' If you re not in a hurry "

I assured him that I was not.

*' I should like to ask you what you
think of a little thing I scribbled this morning.
It is, I fancy you will say when you
have heard it, worthy to go into the collection
of poems I shall publish."

As I heard of this collection for the
first time, I was scarcely competent to give
an opinion ; but I nodded, and Captain
Marx looked quite satisfied, and read —

'' Cynthia's eyes are sweetly blue,
Golden-tinted is her hair ;
Pearly white her teeth are, too.
Yet she drives me to despair.

Cynthia loves so tenderly.
Gives caresses soft and shy,
Just what kisses ought to be —
Yet she makes me long to die.

Cynthia vows she'll e'er be true —
Vows she's never loved before ;
Yet I think, the while I woo.
That her vowing is a bore.

*' For — a detail 'tis, I know.
Yet somehow I never can
Quite ignore that detail's woe —
Cynthia loves Another Man !"

Capital !" said I ; but he turned quickly
to another page of the MS., and read
out, looking at me between each line with
an admiration-extorting glance,

'' ' Haughty Belinda ' this little thing is
called : —

Could you love me, dear V I said.
Yes, I might,' she murmured ;

(There was no one bye,
If I tried with might and main —
But you see, oh, love-sick swain,
I don't mean to try.' "

VOL. I. F

*' Charming!" I exclaimed, with the natural
ecstasy of the junior Ensign when listening
to his superior officer's lucubrations.

'' Yes," said Captain Marx, thoughtfully
stroking his chin ; " yes, I think it is neat —
and happy — yes, decidedly happy. But it's
only a trifle, as you see. Somewhat after
the fashion of Suckling — or Herrick. Yes,
more like Herrick. The fact is, my dear
fellow," and here he lowered his voice impressively
and put his hand on my shoulder,
*the fact is that if these fellows, Herrick
and such like, had lived in these days they
never would have made their names."

Really !" I said.

"No. Now you've heard these lines —
you shall hear hundreds — thousands — of
mine just as good— well, I fancy they have
more chic, more delicate grace, than any of
the old writers ; yet, would you believe it,
I have been sending them to editors of
magazines for years and never got one inserted.

Not one ! Mind, I don't say that
what were inserted are better than mine —
no ; only the asses of editors don't know a
good thing when they see it ; or, perhaps,
are obliged to insert the poetry of the
female members of their families. What I
do say is that Herrick might have written
himself sick before he would have got a
verse printed — except at his own expense."

Then Captain Marx unfolded, with some
pride and with a tender care that no mother
handling her first-born child could have
exceeded, the manuscript of his great work
in ten cantos to which I listened till sleep
overcame me — although I was not very apt
to fall asleep in those days.

'^ You are tired after your journey," said
he, putting away the papers with a sigh.
<« Very tired, poor boy, or you could not
have gone to sleep while I read ' The Crime
and the Curse.' Never mind. I'll read it
you another day."

F 2

Mentally vowing that that day should be
as far off as T could make it, I escaped;
wondering whether it was part of a junior
officer's understood duty to listen to the
poetry of his seniors, and determined,
should such be the case, to at once relinquish
ray position in the Fourth Guards.

Old Marx been reading poetry to you ?"
observed a brother Ensign to whom, not
long afterwards, I confided my doubts and
fears. "Of course, newly-joined Ensigns
are the only people who will listen to him.
Why, even his servants always prefer to go
back to the ranks in a week rather than
have to do it."

Does he read poetry to his servant ?"

*'I should think so. And he's very
lucky now, for he's got one that sits still by
the hour while he spouts. The only inconvenience
is that poor Marx has to write
down his orders."

"Why?"

"Oh, because the mans as nearly stone

deaf as possible. However, he does as
audience ; and no one else will stay."
* * * * *

The commencement of ray military life in
London I will pass over. It has been described
by able pens, and, monotonous,
perhaps, to those who know it, it is scarcely
interesting to those that do not. At first
the solitude was galling, but before long I
had met many old Harreton friends, and
had become more or less intimately acquainted
with most of my other brother-officers.
In London, during the season, this
latter operation is not quite so simple or so
quick as might be supposed ; for opportunities
of converse on parade are not great,
and, off duty, everyone had a hundred
things to do which scarcely concerned a
newly-joined ensign they scarcely knew.
However, thanks to high spirits and a
general wish to oblige, I soon became popular
enough amongst the " young uns," and
entered into London life under the auspices

of the lightest-hearted and perhaps the least
scrupulous of them all.

Many things I saw that I had better not
have seen ; many things I did that I had
better not have done ; but I do not think
that any of it tended at all to deteriorate
me. I had such a fund of credulity and
spontaneous belief in goodness that I scarcely
saw all that I might have seen ; nay, in
some instances, I think I did see what
others, more knowing, did not see. I saw
good in things which others considered to
be all evil ; and, seeing it, perhaps I did
something to increasing that good. Let a
man or a woman be universally regarded as
lost, and they are, from this cause, more
than from their innate worthlessness, really
lost. The touch of human kindness that is
unsuspected, and to which we are long unaccustomed,
comes with a quadrupled kindness
from its very rarity ; perhaps from a
feeling it is undeserved.

In the life of every young man who has
"lived" without too much regard to the
moralities, only eager to be foremost in all
so-called fun that may be going on, there
must be sad — even sweet — remembrances
scattered here and there in the most unlikely
moments ; a pair of soft blue eyes forgetting
their venal smiles for a moment, and
waxing dim as some heedless word, some
snatch of music, reminds their owner of the
long-deserted home : a passionate outburst
of hatred of an unworthy life, which is perhaps
real enough at the moment, though
peradventure it may be soon cured by gin-and-water
or champagne. It would be
impossible for me to attempt to describe
what I have set myself to describe, were I
to take no heed of a current of life that
under-runs, as it were, the broad public
stream of the life of myself and those like
me in their first years.

There it was: there it may still be for

aught I know. Bad enough, perhaps ; but
not so altogether bad as those who forget
that human nature always is human nature
would have us believe. I was as the other
youths around rae were ; no better and no
worse. There was more of high spirits and
the mischief of the out-of-bounds schoolboy
about it than of vice ; and there was, I
verily believe, less heartlessness in the unnameable
places I am thinking of than
in many a drawing-room in Belgravia or
Mayfair.

Yes, I have heard of instances of noble
self-sacrifice, of devotion, in that substratum
of this London Society, which are worthy to
be placed beside the noblest deeds of
respectability.

It is not, however, to moralize over a
question which may perhaps some day stir
the world — we have had the first battle-notes
from America — that I began this tale ;
and, apologising for having so taken up the

kind reader's time, I will come at once to
ray entrance into " the world."

But such an event requires a new chapter.

CHAPTER V.

LADY MONYMUSK.

'' TOOK," said my especial crony, Tom
^ Sackton, entering my room one morning,
just as I was thinking of getting up ;
^' are you going to the Tilliefruries' tonight?"


I may as well here mention that I was
called Jock in the regiment, for no other
reason that I ever could discover except
that my name was Mervin.

The careless question set me thinking.
The Tilliefruries were people to whom I.
had been especially recommended by my
mother, and also by Colonel Gilbeau, who

had been an early friend of her ladyship's.
Hitherto I had carefully refrained from any
society save that hinted at in the last chapter.
Would it not be as well to make the
plunge now, and to take this opportunity of
making their acquaintance ?

"Well;' I answered, ''I think I shall.
The only thing against it is that I am not
asked."

Oh, that don't matter. It's not till
Thursday — come and leave a card. Theirs
are the best balls in London — no confounded
girls there." And the old-young man shook*
his head with all the sagacity of one who
had been hunted by mothers for a season.
For Tom Sackton was — or was to be — rich
in this world's goods, beings heir to an immense
estate in the Midlands. So we not
long after found ourselves outside the 
portals, and I deposited two cards in
the hands of the butler, a portly personage
with a splendid expanse of white waistcoat,
who was airing himself at the door. Tom

had stopped at the corner of the street, for,
having his invitation, he had no need to
leave a card, and when I rejoined him I at
first thought he was in a fit of apoplexy, so
red in the face was he. He dragged me
round the corner and out of sight of 
House, and, just as I was about to
loosen his collar, gave vent to an uproarious
shout of laughter. ^' Oh ! Jock, you are
too beautiful ! too splendid ! Do you know
who that was ?"

"Why, the butler, of course! What on

earth "

^'The butler! That was Archibald
George Monymusk ; Fifteenth Marquis of
Tilliefrurie, and Hereditary Grand Chamberlain
of Scotland ; Captain-general of the
Highland Irregular Cavalry ; Trustee of the
British Museum; etcetera, etcetera, etcetera."
And again Tom's laughter burst forth.

I Alas horror-struck, and then angry.

Why the deuce does he stand at the
door and look like a butler, then ?"

"Look like a butler! My dear Jock,
you should see his butler. His lordship
can't hold a candle to him in grandeur of
deportment."

This was not exactly an auspicious way
of commencing my acquaintance with the
family of whose greatness my mother had
so often spoken ; but there was nothing to
be done, and I returned a sadder and a
wiser man to my club ; and in the excitement
of planning an Ascot man-party soon
forgot the little contretemps.

But nevertheless when, faultlessly arrayed,
I elbowed — or rather gently squeezed — my
way up the stairs at Tilliefrurie House a few
days afterwards, it recurred unpleasantly to
my mind, particularly when, at the head of
the staircase, I found myself face to face
with my supposed butler.

"Ha I Here's my young friend who left
his card on me the other day — I told you
the story, my dear. My lady, here is Mr,
O'Connor."

Lady Tilliefrurie, a superbly preserved
woman, of whom it was an insult to say
she had been handsome, turned with a smile
and have me her hand, ^ivinc: the said
hand at the same time a slight pull which
said plainly enough, " Go on, and allow
other more worthy ones to come up." So I
moved on, a little mortified ; for in my own
-county the few ladies who entertained were
not wont so unceremoniously to evade my
small talk. In a few minutes I ran against
an acquaintance — a Major Draper, who was
to be one of our Ascot party, and who most
obligingly took me in hand and introduced
me to many persons, and set me fairly going
in the dancing way.

The shyness that at first oppressed me
soon wore off, and I was full of the courage
with which a slight flirtation with an elderly
girl, Avhom I had taken to supper and
supplied liberally with champagne and
cutlets, had given me, when my eyes fell

upon an apparition that fairly took away my
breath.

Tom Sackton was passing, hurrying to
his partner as the music commenced ; but I
laid ruthless hands on him.

Stop a moment !" I cried, my heart
beating wildly as I spoke. 'tell me who
that lovely woman is !"

"That! Don't you know? That's Lady
Monymusk," and he disappeared.

Monymusk was the title of the eldest son
of the house, who had lately returned from
a journey in america, in which his wife had,
I knew, accompanied him, and had done
something wonderful in the way of roughing
it in the Yellowstone Mountains. To be
presented to her was now my sole object
and ambition in life. I threw over two
partners in my search of some one to do
this office. I dashed aimlessly about, getting
in everyone's was until at last, seeing my
beauty approach Lady Tilliefrurie, I plucked

up courage and boldly went up and asked
her to introduce me.

The elder lady opened her fine eyes very
wide (wide enough, I thought maliciously,
to multiply the crows-feet that were visible
at close quarters) and hesitated for a
moment. As I stood there, however,
apparently calmly determined, but inwardly
in a mighty fear, she assented — "Gertrude
dear, Mr. O'Connor wishes to know
you."

I bowed, and in another moment, I
know not how, found myself descending the
staircase, on the way to the supper-room,
with Lady Monymusk's little hand lying on
mv arm.

'' Your first ball ?" she said, soon after,
when we had obtained a round table all to
ourselves. "That is charming. It makes
you quite interesting. Very soon you will
be just like all the other young men,
saying the same thing as they do, cut out
according to the regulation pattern, like

Army clothes or boots. They tell me there
are only two sizes of boots issued to the
soldiers, and one or the other size they
must fit into. It often seems to me that
young men are much the same ; only there is
but one size of them."

I haven't the remotest notion of what I
said. I only know that as I sat there and
looked at her bright hazel eyes and watched
the soft, shy smiles that played about her
lips, and could not keep my eyes from the
delicately-moulded form whose every
movement was a poem, I was in a dream of
heaven. How I hated the moustache
ruffian who came and took her away from
me ! How burdensome were my feelings
with regard to that woman who talked to
her, when the dance was over, for ten
minutes by the clock ; how deftly I awaited
the proper moment, and then was anticipated
by another ruffian in my endeavour
to take her to her carriage ; how wildly
happy I was when she smiled a good night

A^OL. I. a

to me ere she entered it ; low dazed I
walked home, puffing vigorously at an unlit
cigar ; how transcendent were my waking
thoughts before I slept ; how inconsequently
sweet were the dreams which my servant
dissipated at 'ten minutes to parade"
time !

Do you know Monymusk ?" I asked at
lunch that day.

'' Yes — of course — at least, I know him
as much as anyone else, which is scarcely at
all."

"Why"

Why? Well he's a rum chap — a little
touched in the head, I think," said Tom
Sackton, sipping his sherry thoughtfully.
*some say it's bad health, bat I believe
it's bad temper. Went off at a moment's
notice to the wilds somewhere, and made
that pretty woman go with him and wear
skins and live on locusts and wild honey.
But, by Jove, she is a stunner, isn't
she ?"

I preserved a dignified silence. The idea
of Gertrude — already in my thoughts I
called her Gertrude — being spoken of as " a
stunner " was to me as the idea of a certain
class of paintings being called art is to Mr.
Ruskin.

Trembling in every limb, a few days
afterwards I called in Hertford Street,
where the Monymusks lived ; but fruitlessly
she was "not at home."

Then I went into the Park and despaired
for half-an-hour, till it struck me that it was
barely possible that, at an hour when most
ladies were out driving, she might be
doing the same ; and I was a little comforted.


Wildly I paid duty visits and asked for invitations
— efforts which were rewarded by a
rapidly-increasing quantity of cards to stick
into the glass over my mantelpiece ; but ball
after ball and party after party did I
attend vainly. She was nowhere.

Day after day did I find important

G 2

business which necessitated my walking
down Hertford Street ; but also in vain.
Nothing did I see save the closed muslin
curtains of the first-floor windows. My
habits changed. I gave up everything that
I fancied could be offensive to the sanctity
of my divinity. I lived only for her — only
for a woman whom I had once met, and
with whom I had only exchanged a few
meaningless sentences in a ball-room !

Love at first sight may or may not be
possible. I only know that I have never
felt the same again as I felt when under the
influence of the recollection of those hazel
eyes.

CHAPTER VI.

BAY LEY NORTH,

HOWEVER much in love a young man
may be, certain pleasures will

•
nevertheless assert some ascendancy over

him ; he cannot be always sighing like a
furnace, nor is it possible for him to spend
all the twelve hours penning sonnets to his
mistress's eyebrow. And for a young man
whose business, as it were, forces him into
gaiety, or at any rate into the society of
those to whom gaiety is the business of their
lives, it is impossible to allow his love, be it
ever so strong, to entirely absorb him.
Although in the very middle of the sweet

thing called " Love's young dream," I yet
had time to give to some of the diversions
of my position ; and of all the diversions
more essentially fitted to the position of
an Ensign and Lieutenant in the Guards,
give me Ascot races. I say Ascot particularly,
as the head of those meetings
which combine the sport of the thing
with the society of the thing in a
pre-eminent degree. Goodwood, of course,
is as good ; but then Goodwood, at the time
of which I write, was scarcely, in the proper
sense of the term, a " popular " race-meeting,
and some part of the charm of Ascot was
the fact that, once outside the sacred
*' enclosure," you could meet a good many
people — as amusing as those inside, perhaps,
but unnameable to them. Epsom
was too big and vulgar; Goodwood too
small and select ; Ascot combined the
charms of both with the disadvantages of
neither.

So to Windsor one bright Monday did I,
in company with some half-dozen youngsters
as thoughtless as, if less in love than, I, go
down, and almost forgot Lady Mony musk's
Gertrude's — unfathomable eyes in the
blissful anticipation of my week as honorary
member of the mess of the regiment
quartered there.

Deeply did one of us study "Ruff"
en route ; whimsically did another chaff
the officials and make fun generally of every
human being he saw, with occasional
variations, when no human being could be'
seen, into the comic ditties of the day,
or rather the night, given with exquisite
imitation of the music-hall gentleman who
sang them. Pleasantly did Marx (who had
been persuaded to allow an ambitious
junior, anxious to show his zeal, to do
Adjutant for a week) discourse in my ear
of the witty verses which might be written
anent the Ascot Week and its follies.

Beautifully did Charlie Greenaway, our
beauty, gaze at such ladies as from the
platform encountered his earnest eyes ; and
wisely did our Colonel, who happened to
be in the carriage, converse as to the folly
of young fellows presuming to bet until they
at least knew "Ruff" by heart, had made
the intimate acquaintance of most of the
owners and all the trainers of racehorses,
and were able to compete with 'the
Admiral" in the proper adjustment of the
weights of a handicap.

I felt angry with myself once or twice
when, laughing at some remark of Tom
Sackton, or wondering at the mimic skill
of Johnny Blows, I found that I had quite
forgotten my franche passion — a passion of
which, by the way, I was intensely proud ; and
which 1 had actually gone so far as, one evening,
after perhaps an extra glass of ,
to confide to my ally, Tom Sackton,
whose sympathy was, if a little coarse,
thoroughly flattering.

Tom believed in nie already, although I
was two years his junior, both in years and
regimental seniority. That ladies should fall
in love with me he looked upon as correct,
and only following out the fitness of things ;
and he, indeed, once went so far as to give
up dancing with Lady Alice Manworth}^,
only because I had reported to him a little
incident of my first week's ball-going. Which
incident was this —

Emboldened by the soft glances of my
previous partners, I had dared not only to be
introduced to the reigning beauty (in those
days there were " reigning beauties "
amongst the girls — the young married
women had not monopolised everything
then), but actually to ask her to come down
to supper with me. Now, as is well known,
to ask an acknowledged beauty (I speak of
those days, hen entendu) to dance at all on
first introduction was a piece of impudence,
even when the dance was to be '^ square."
To ask her to valse was almost unparalleled

effrontery, but to ask her to come to supper!
No punishment in the way of snubbing could
be too great.

Lady Alice tried to look down upon me,
but as the sweet creature's head only reached
my shoulder, this was scarcely to be done.
Then she raised her blue eyes to mine with
a wealth (as the novelists have it) — a wealth
of meaning — and very unpleasant meaning —
in them ; yet still I quailed not, but stood
my ground manfully, holding out my
arm.

It is said that a great millionaire of
well-known habits of caution was once
astonished into backing an impecunious
speculator's bill by the very wonder of the
latter daring to make such a request. The
same effect was achieved in my case. Lady
Alice put her little hand on my proffered
arm and came to supper !

But then her revenge began. To my
brilliant small talk, which became less
brilliant as it ran itself out, she only

responded by supercilious little raising of
the eyebrows and shrugging of the shoulders.
Not a word came out of the haughtily-curved
little mouth ; not a glance from the
magnificent eyes. I might have been a
footman waiting upon her little ladyship
at supper — a footman who forgot himself
and had to be kept in his proper place. At
last she had finished her chicken wing and
rose, taking my arm again as she would
have taken up a stick, just to assist her up
the stairs. Then, just as we were nearing
the corner where dozed her mother, she
fired a shot —

^' I thought the holidays had not begun
yet!"

holidays! Leave, you mean. Oh, I
am going to do duty with my regiment
another six months."

'' Really ; but surely that doesn't let you
free from school?"

School, Lady Alice ! I am in the Fourth
Guards !"

Indeed ! I thought you were in the Eton
Volunteers."

Then she turned with a smile to a monster
with an immense moustache — that object
of my young ambition ! — and seemed entirely
to forget the existence of one so insignificant
as I.

As I have said, Tom resenting this, Lady
Alice lost one of her partners ; but, as Tom's
dancing was rather bear-like, she probably
did not much feel her punishment. The
sequel of the tale was that, some twelvemonths
after, she told me the story as a
good one against herself. '' Fancy a strange
boy, just introduced, coming up and asking
to take me to supper ! I declare I lost my
head, it was so funny."

We were in a break driving to covert,
and Lady Alice had flirted with me
prodigiously the night before, and seemed
quite willing to continue the amusement
still.

I suppose you never looked at him?"

'' Looked at him, Mr. O'Connor ! if I had
I should have burst out laughing, his
impertinence was so charming ; and where
would my dignity have been then ?"

^'Oh, I only asked because, you see — the
impertinent youth happened to be me !"

« But I must return to my first Ascot Week.
The mess dinner on the opening night was
marked by an incident that occasioned some
amusement. The champagne was strong.
I was excited and obliging, and never
dreamed of saying '' No " to the numerous
applications to drink wine with me, nor'
suspected anything in the nature of a plot
against my sobriety. So it happened that
when the table had been cleared, and the
bottles placed thereon before the officer on
duty, I was ripe for anything, and particularly
suited for the amusement of others.

'now then, Jock, go on," said the
Ensign on one side of me.

Go on ! " echoed he on the other
side.

"Now, then, O'Connor," said a grave
Captain opposite ; " we are all waiting for
you."

"To do what? To say grace?" I
asked, wondering whether it was a sudden
cold that made my voice so husky and
strange, and whether that also was the
cause of the indistinctness of the said
Captain's outline, and of the far-off sound of
his remark.

"Why, to propose the Colonel's
health."

I should mention that the Colonel, lately
exchanged from another regiment, was of
the order of men who think that the
frequent assertion of it improves and
magnifies their dignity, and who mistake
the assumption of greatness for the real
article.

"'PosetheColonel'shealth !" I observed, all
in one word.

"Yes, of course — don't you know it is
the right thing? In Ascot Week the junior

honorary member of the mess always does
so. You should have prepared a speech
beforehand. However, I daresay he won't
be particular. Go ahead !"

Go ahead !" said the Ensign on my
right.

Go ahead !" cried the Ensign on my
left.

Quite sure I must ?" I demanded, with
the calmness of despair.

Quite sure — of course — couldn't possibly
help it," were heard all round.

Then some one knocked with a spoon "
upon the table, somebody gave me a push,
and, as I arose, I became aware that my
chair was taken away from under me.

It was neck or nothing, and I began :

Gentleman— "

Thunders of applause at my end of the
table, and at the other a vision of several
surprised faces and of one very angry-looking
red one.

^' I rise propose Colonel's health. Long

life to the Colonel. May he live long and

prosper — may

*what does this mean?" thundered a
voice from the other end of the table.
'* Sit down, sir. What's his name ?"

'o'connor," I heard, just as I sat down
with a bump upon the floor.

Take him away ! — a most disgraceful
exhibition ! — take him away ! Take him to
bed ! I shall write to Colonel Henry
tomorrow morning. I have no notion of
such impertinence ! Take him away !"

And taken away I was, struggling
manfully, by three stalwart Ensigns in
ecstasies of laughter at the success of the
joke.

*' It's a court-martial, Jock," said one of
these Job's comforters as we reached the
first landing.

'' Go to the devil !" I exclaimed, hurling
him away from me. "And I'm not going
to bed — I'm going to Rattino's to-night."

My captors had had enough of fighting

with me — for I was strong and determined
and consented to a compromise. It was
agreed that 1 should stay in my room,
enjoying a bottle or two of soda-water,
until ten o'clock, when it was the custom
of the C. 0. to return to his room, and that
then I might descend, in plain clothes, and
make one of the party which was to sally
forth and tempt fortune at the hazard-table
so kindly provided by a philanthropic
gentleman who went by the name of Rattino
his real cognomen being Rate.

I carried out my part of the compact,
and at eleven o'clock we drove off in two
flies to the back street where the Signor
entertained.

The scene that met my eyes within, when
I could see through the dense clouds of
tobacco-smoke, was striking enough ; but a
gambling-table has been described ad
nauseam, and a hazard-table in Windsor
differed but little, as far as the passion to
which it gave rise is concerned, from the

VOL. I. H

roulette or rouge-et-noir table of old
Homburg and Baden.

One figure struck me particularly. A
pale, aristocratic face, young, yet with many
of the lines of age about it — lines wrought
by dissipation, and perhaps by anxiety
which no one knew of, added to by remorse
which none suspected ; an enormous
cigar stuck in one corner of the well shaped
mouth ; a hat tilted almost at right angles
on one side, and making you wonder at the
skill with which it kept on ; two large and
intelligent, if somewhat sunken eyes watching
the dice as they fell ; and two white
hands, trembling, but not with excitement,
taking in and paying out the counters that
represented money — that represented more
than money to that man of high lineage
and great estate ; that represented the
ruin of an old family ; the laying low
of many a mighty oak; the enriching
of many an Israelitish speculator on human
folly.

Even to me, young as I was, half drunk
as I was, it was sad to see that pale
young aristocrat hopelessly drinking and
gambling away a life that but a few short
seasons ago had seemed so full of happiness
and promise.

One other face attracted me before I
bought counters — following the example of
those with whom I had come — and sat down
to play a game of which I was absolutely
ignorant. It was that of a man of middle
age, with strikingly handsome, regular
features, a black moustache, and dark eyes
of singular brilliancy. As I looked at him,
he happened to raise them, and I felt a
thrill run through me ; while at the same
time a dim recollection of having seen them
before came across my brain. Where ? I
could not think, and soon I was deep in my
first gamble, perplexedly wondering why I
lost and why I won, but taking good and
bad fortune with the stoical composure I
knew to be en regie,

h2

At last the box came to me, and I
called and threw mains with all the cheerfulness
of youth and ignorance, until I became
aware of the fact that I had lost a very large
sum of money, besides being in debt to Mr.
Rattino for about as much besides. Then a
hand was put' on my shoulder, and, turning,
I was confronted with the dark eyes of the
man I mentioned as having attracted me on
entering the room.

That's good enough for one night, my
boy," said he, in a low tone.

"What the devil is that to you?" was my
retort ; for the interference of a stranger
seemed to me unwarrantable.

A good deal. I take an interest in you.
Don't lose more than you can pay. It's not
honourable, and, besides, it's deuced uncomfortable
next morning. You've lost
about three times your year's income now.
Come away ; I'll walk home with you, and
we'll shake off the atmosphere of this hole
in the fresh air, and have some nerves left

wherewith to spot a winner tomorrow.
Come along."

There was something so winning in his
manner, so pleasant in his expression, his
whole demeanour seemed so free from all
desire to unduly interfere with my rights asa
free and emancipated grown-up man like
himself, that I yielded incontinently, and ina
few minutes, after a tender " good night"
from Rattino, found myself walking down
the Castle Hill, puffing at one of my companion's
excellent cigars.

'sto chuck away money at a game you'
don't know is wasting wilfully one of the
chief blessings of life — excitement. When
you have learned hazard, the king of games
of chance, you will then be able to enjoy it ;
at presence you are simply throwing good
money into Mr. Rattino's pocket, and gaining
no pleasure from the amusement. One
of the great faults of youth is to only half
understand what youth's pleasures are.
Even in their vice young men are fools ; for

vice properly managed is delicious. Vice
mismanaged is not much better than virtue."

I laughed foolishly, though what at I
scarcely knew. Most of my intellect was
taken up in hiding from my companion
that I could only with great difficulty steer
a straight course. Already two or three
times I had lurched up against him, and,
as he appeared not to notice it, I nursed the
hope that he supposed the erratic steering
was on his side.

'' There are two great pleasures in this
life," he went on, after turning curiously toscan
the face of a woman who flitted by ;
gambling and women. Though they are
not to be compared one with the other.
Gambling is the only passion properly so-called.
It absorbs all your faculties. In a
really good fit of it the end of the world
might come, but you would hold your cards
or throw your dice till the consuming fire
reached you ; you would play on while your
leg was being cut off; you would play on

though all your dearest friends were dying ;
you would almost rather starve yourself
than give up any precious time to meals ;
and you only eat for the purpose of coming
back fresh to the table. Do you, can you,
ever feel this for a woman ? Pshaw ! a cold
in the head cools your love ; the gout for
the time kills it altogether. Still women are
very nice things, properly made use of.
But what I was going to impress upon you
was this. Both these pleasures are spoiled
by what some idiots have put down as a
pleasure per se — wine. If you hadn't been

drunk to-night, for instance " I tried

to murmur an indignant denial, but he took
no notice, and continued, " If you hadn't been
drunk you'd have got plenty of amusement
out of this evening. As it is you get none.
You've lost a lot of money which you can't
spare, and you haven't even learned the
game of hazard !"

At this moment we reached the gate of
the barracks, and then, as we were about

to part, I managed to put a question which
had been trembling on my tongue for sometime.


^'You know my name," I said; 'but
somehow — although I seem to remember
you — I cannot quite remember "

^'My name?" he said, with a peculiar
smile. " Yes, I knew your name ; and you
have seen me before. I am Bayley North."

CHAPTER Vir.

ASCOT.

^' nnWO to one bar one !" ^' Two ponies
J- I'll take!" "Here! I'll lay again
anything!" 'i'll bet against some of these
outsiders!" "Two to one bar one!"
"What do you want to do, my Lord?"

'' What do you bar ?" I asked, complacently,
trying my best to look as if I were an
old Trite and had not only just learned
the meaning of that mysterious expression.

"Flavins," replied the kinsman, as if he
were confiding to me an important secret.
Flavins, then, was to be the winner, said I
to myself; and out came my new betting-book,

with my name and the name of my
club in clear characters on the back
thereof.

"Two ponies — Flavour. Make it centuries,
Colonel." At first I thought he
alluded to the time it would take me to pay
if I lost, but immediately remembered that
"centuries" was the turf word for hundreds
— a very fair specimen of racing
humour.

All right — two hundred to one —
Flavour."

And the first bet was inscribed upon the
virgin pages of my betting-book.

It was the first race of the meeting. I
mounted to the top of the stand, armed
with a pair of glasses and a card. Two
hundred pounds, after my tragic hazard the
night before, meant a great deal, and my
hand shook as I strove to make out where
the favourite was as they came into the
straight. There were only five horses in it,
and he was fourth.

But what a fool the jockey was ! I felt
as if I could have done better myself. The
two leading horses have a set-to. Crack go
the whips. The ring shout, but my whole
thoughts are with that chestnut horse calmly
pulling up in the rear. Pulling up, as I
live ! Flavins is last, and I have lost my
first bet in a horse-race.

Sadly descending for champagne, I ran
against Colonel North.

'* Ah ! O'Connor, how do you feel ? A
little chippy after last night, eh ? No ?
What a thing it is to be young ! But don't
do it too often. Every night you drink one
B.-and-S. too many, you discount so much
of your most valuable possession — that same
youth. Didn't I see you betting just now —
not on that rascally-run race, I hope ?"

I backed Flavins," said I, sadly.

North looked at me pityingly.

"My dear boys did you know anything
of Flavins ?"

'*No."

Had you ever seen him before ?"

No."

Or looked into RufF for his performances
?"

"No."

Or asked his owner, or trainer, or anyone
connected with the stable ?"

"No."

"Then why the deuce did you back
him ?"

*' Well — you see — he was favourite — and
I thought "

The Colonel interrupted me with a calm
smile.

"Let me give you a bit of advice, ray
boy. Never back the favourite in a small
race — unless you know something. They
have a wonderful knack of not winning;
and, as to Flavins being the favourite here,
he was not. You could get eight to one
about him."

'height to one ! Why, I only got two."

Two for an eight-to-one chance, and the

horse not meant! Well, I suppose you will
learn, but certainly it seems to me that
you "

"That I am a fool?" I asked, bitterly;
but he had turned away to speak to a very
shabby-looking individual who appeared to
be burdened by some tremendous secret.

I sauntered away, feeling that existence
was rather wearisome, and wondering
dreamily Avh ether I should have much
difficulty in raising the money I required ;
and soon found myself among the coaches,
on which the greatest event of the day, to
the ladies at least — luncheon — was going
bravely forward.

'' Hullo, O'Connor !" said a voice from
above me. 'come up and eat. You're
wanted here."

I looked up, and recognized Sir Arthur
Elderly, one of the senior members of the
Four-in-hand Club, and generally reputed
to be the best judge of horses and women
in London. Attired in the regulation brown

coat, with an enormous flower in his buttonhole,
and the sprucest wig that could be
bought for money on his head, he was in
his glory ; and beside him on the box-seat
was — Lady Monymusk !

'' Yes, come up and tell me all about the
race, Mr. O'Connor," she said, in that ringing
voice which made my heart beat fast.
"All these people are so greedy that they
will think of nothing but champagne and
lobster salad, and I want to know what is
going to win the Cup."

I certainly did not at that moment feel
very well qualified to assist her ; but, nothing
loth, I climbed up to the seat behind her,
and straightway entered a seventh heaven
and utterly forgot my miseries — races, Jews,
hazard, Rattino, and all.

There are some women who have in them
a faculty of constantly surprising you; of
awakening in you emotions you did not
know you possessed, and which can bestirred
by no one but themselves. Seen

a ball-room, you would say that Gertrude
Monymusk is so best seen, glittering in
diamonds and in all the witcheries of artistic
dress. Seen in her plainest costume,
walking along a muddy country road, you
could declare to yourself that your impression
had been wrong, and that it was so she
looked her very best ; while at night again
you would return to your former belief.
Seeing her sad, you could not help owning
that sadness became her sympathetic face
better than any other emotion could become
it ; hearing her silvery laugh, you would '
swear that such music should never cease,
and that a sigh from her would be a sadness
to all. She could be caressing, and you
adored ; haughty, and you worshipped ;
wilful, and you would bend your neck to
place it under her fairy foot; soft, and you
melted into a tenderness you little dreamed
your nature was capable of. That men
should love her surprised rae little. That
they could go about their daily amusements

and occupations without gaining her love did
surprise me. The world was all Gertrude
Monymusk to me. There were other things,
it is true; but they were all only adjuncts
to the one grand, sweet, all-absorbing fact
she existed!

How long I sat there and what I said I
do not know, but I am certain that she read
my secret easily enough, and I scarcely think
it displeased her. My failure for so long to
see her was .easily accounted for.

"Monymusk has been ill for a longer
time than usual, and I have not time to see
even my most intimate friends when he is
ill."

I wish I were an intimate friend," I
remarked, stupidly.

*' Do you think intimacy is reckoned by
time, by the number of years one has known
a person?" she asked — and Heaven only
knows what I should have replied had nota
voice at my elbow interrupted us.

How do you do, Lady Monymusk ?

O'Connor, I want to speak to you if you can
spare time."

Colonel North was the speaker, and I
hated him at that moment with an unholy
hatred, but complied.

'* Look here," he said, when we were on
the ground ; *' you have plenty of time for
spooning elsewhere. It's ruinous work on
a racecourse, particularly when you have to
get money back. How do you propose to
pay what you lost last night and this morning
?"

"" Oh, the Jews, I suppose," I answered, '
vaguely, trying to see what Lady Mony musk
was doing.

No, no, it's too soon to come to that
game. I have a better way. Ringwood is
going to win the next race."

"Is he?" I asked, a little incredulously,
for the Colonel announced this as if he were
affirming that it was a hot day, or that
Queen Anne was dead.

'' Yes. I have certain information. He

VOL. I. I

is at five to one. If you like, I'll put you a
monkey on — I am going into the ring now."

I hesitated. A *' monkey" — £500 — more
lost would be disastrous.

"It's about the best thing I've come
across for a long time," said he, a little impatiently;
'you can trust to my knowledge."


So I assented — he departed — and I
climbed over again to Lady Monymusk's
side.

How long have you known Colonel
North ?" she asked.

*' I only made his acquaintance last night ;
he seems a very good-natured fellow."

She smiled — an odd smile — and said —

''I suppose they are all good-natured
fellows to you now ; but — don't think it
impertinent of me — don't trust anyone, not
even Colonel North — too far. Are you
rich?"

*' No — only a second son — and my brother's
not what you would call rich."

'^ Oh !" She seemed puzzled, and the
subject dropped, as several talkative people,
little suspecting my homicidal feelings regarding
them, insisted on taking up Lady
Monyrausk's attention. But it seemed
to me, although she laughed and talked
pleasantly enough with these people, that
there was a nuance in her manner to me — a
something of sympathy, of comprehension,
of together-drawing (if I may so express it)
which was lacking in her manner to
others. Her conversation with them was
not free from the artificiality that all such
talk must have ; with me she seemed utterly
and entirely natural and real.

She was, perhaps, the first woman, not a
relative, with whom I had felt quite at my
ease. No wonder I loved her, for amid all
the joys and glories of youth there is not
one so strong as to make us quite forget
that awful bugbear, mauvaise honte.

Shyness scarcely expresses it, and, indeed,
the French expression is inadequate to

i2

shadow forth its agony. I believe there are
moments of his existence when the self-conscious
young man — just escaped, or
hardly escaped, from hobbledehoyhood —
would gladly welcome a leap down a yawning
chasm to escape the horror of his false
position ; and I have been myself assured by
a young gentleman not given to early hours
or weak potations, that if he had often to
breakfast with the ladies at a country-house
he should commit suicide: and that he would
far rather face all his creditors at once than
the battery of amused eyes opposite him
when struggling to induce his erratic hand
to convey the clattering cup to his parched
lips. Tom Sackton — who was rather of
this class — was wont to classify the ladies he
met in country houses according to a peculiar
scale of his own. There were the " one-bands.
women," the '' two-B.-and-S.
women," and I believe some sarcastic ladies
who reached the "three" class; meaning
that this amount of Dutch courage was

required by hint before lie — jaded and
tobacco-worn — could face their fresh prattle
and inquisitorial glances at the morning
meal.

With Lady Monymusk you felt that,
although your hand were ever so unsteady,
and whatever tales your glassy eye might
tell, you were sure of a sympathy devoid of
sarcasm, or of that pity which is worse than
sarcasm. She was a woman all over, soft
and loveable, and men and women all alike
bore testimony to her seductive nature.

But, while I sat on the coach drinking in
draughts of love, the bell had rung, the
preliminary canters were over, and all were
eagerly awaiting the start for the last race
of the day.

Five monkeys — two thousand live hundred
pounds ! It was an enormous stake
for me — indeed, for anyone — to have on a
single race, and that not an important race ;
but the days I write of were the days of
plunging — days which ended in the dissipation

of many a large estate, the ruin of
many a high-spirited young aristocrat.

As the cry arose, " They're off!" I almost
forgot my companion, while I looked for
the colour of the horse on which what was
to me a fortune depended. There he was,
going well within himself, fourth. Ha ! The
leading horse has shot his bolt. Ringwood
is third. But they are getting near home ;
why does not my jockey bestir himself?
That big chestnut in front is going strong
and well, and is bestrode by the best rider of
the day. It is the favourite, and the cry
goes up, "The favourite wins — the favourite
wins !" It is a splendid race ; you could
cover the three with a table-cloth. The
great jockey raises his whip, so does the
boy on the bay, and as he does so I see at
once that his chance is hopeless, for his
animal swerves towards the rails and is "out
of it " in a second.

Ringwood's rider sits as still as a statue,
and his knee must be touching that of the

Other jockey — they gallop as if the two
horses were glued together — both whips are
going now. The excitement is intense.
Ringwood ! the favourite ! the favourite !
Ringwood 1" echo in'the air as the partisans
of either animal yell themselves hoarse.
They pass the post amid a roar of voices.
A dead heat," is on every tongue. I am
almost too excited to look at the telegraph-board.


*' Can you see the number, Lady Mony-musk
?" for, with steady hand, she has
raised her glasses. *' Ring wood's number is
seven."

'^ And seven is hoisted !" Was it chance,
an accident, that as she put down the opera-glasses
her hand rested for a moment on
mine, which was trembling with excitement.


*' I congratulate you, Mr. O'Connor; but
don't get too fond of betting, and don't
take Colonel North's advice in everything.
Here he comes, beaming with success. I

daresay he has won a great deal of
money."

'' Well,'^ said Colonel North, mounting on
the coach and pouring himself out a glass of
champagne ; '' well, we pulled it off, you
see ; but it was an uncommon near thing.
Murphy waited just a little too long; if he
had let Ringwood out at the bend we
should have been spared that bit of excitement,
and minutes like those shorten one's
life. I feel as if I had at least three more
grey hairs than I had before the race."

** It is a pity to waste so much emotion
on such a thing as whether one horse can
gallop a little faster than another, is it not ?"
asked Lady Monymusk, and I noticed that
she was deadly pale, and that her lips
trembled.

What is there in life more worthy of
emotion — woman, do you think?" He spoke
roughly, and without the polish that usually
marked him, for Bayley North's manners
were esteemed perfect.

Seeing that several people were below
who belonged to the coach's party, I turned
to descend ; and, as I did so, I was
aware that Lady Monymusk said something
to him in a low voice, and I heard
his reply.

You are wrong — quite wrong. I will
have no interference here, Gertrude — understand
that !"

He called her by her Christian name ! It
seemed strange, considering that they had
before seemed to be but acquaintances ; and
what could he mean by her interference 7
Had it any reference to me ? Revolving
these things, I hunted out the regimental
coach, and took my place among the merry
crew — many of whom had lost several years'
income that day, but all of whom were in
the wildest spirits — and whirled away back
to Windsor town, escaping a series of breakneck
accidents by a series of miracles.

Immersed in the intricacies of a pool, I
forgot to go to the hell that night, and went

to bed to dream of Gertrude and of the
enormous sum of money soon to be placed
in the care of an astonished banker.

Alas ! the latter part of my dream was
not doomed to be verified. Although North
put me on another "good thing" that meeting
which duly came off, my Turf successes
only went to swell the exchequer of Signor
Rattino, and on the Saturday I returned to
town a sadder, perhaps a wiser man, to
seek amongst the haunts of Israel for a few
hundreds wherewith to appear at Tattersall's
on Monday to '' settle."

One thing my first week's " plunging " had
done for me. I suddenly, with a certain set
of men, leaped into popularity. There is no
profession in which there is so strong an
esprit de corps as that of the gambler.

As great mutual danger attracts people to
each other, so does great mutual excitement.
Smith and Jones both intently
watching the same dice-box as it rattles, or
the same card as it is turned, are forced,

by the identity of interest, to love one
another.

Watch the meeting of a couple of gamblers
next day after a hard night ; you would
think that at the least one had just confided
to the other his deep love for his sister, or
had volunteered to back his acceptances for
life.

CHAPTER VIII.

A NEW Church-goer.

T HAVE had so much to say concerning
-^ Lady Monymusk and Colonel Bayley
North that I have quite forgotten my host
of Park Lane. For, having finished the
martyrdom yclept drill, I had now taken
up my quarters in dear old Gilbeau s little
house, of which he had given up the
ground-floor entirely to me. We certainly
met but seldom, for his ways and mine
were diametrically in opposite directions,
and my evenings began just when he was
stepping into bed with the French novel
which was seldom far from his side, and

with which he was wont to read himself to
sleep.

A comfortable position ; two candles and
a French novel, and you may defy Fate and
forget the sordid, practical world outside,"
he said. "Why, my dear Mervin, while
you are standing about in tight boots and
struggling to understand something of the
artificial lying human beings around you,
and vainly attempting to extract either
amusement or instruction from them, I am
reading their inmost souls in the page of the
one man who thoroughly understood human
nature, Balzac. One of his novels will tell
you more than all your own study at firsthand
would tell in a long lifetime of going
out in Society. I thought I knew something,
but I find I was a child in knowledge
of men and women till I found him out.
Fancy living thirty years without having
read Balzac !"

And the Colonel shuddered and proceeded
upstairs, while I donned my coat.

and, calling a cab, dashed off to some party.
Colonel Gilbeau— or '' Old Gil," as I now
called him even to his face, he having protested
against the formal designation — was
blessed with a neat little fortune of some
four thousand a year, and, as he had spent
but little for many years, it had quite recovered
from the ravages of his jeunesse
orageuse, if indeed there had been any such
thing with him. For myself, I was rather
inclined to doubt his terrible tales of wild
excess and mad passion, which tales were
generally brought up to point a moral when
any story of my doings came to his ears.
And he managed to hear what I was about,
having gathered round him a selected circle
of old friends, picked up at the solitary
Club on the books of which he had kept his
name. A bachelor friend with Club ideas
and Club morals, but who can give an excellent
dinner in his own house, is a vara
avis in this empty world, and " Old Gil "
became marvellously popular with the smart

old gentlemen I used sometimes to meet in
the hall of our little house. I looked in
upon one or two of their little parties, and
was duly impressed with the immense
superiority of everything that had been over
everything that then was — men, women,
horses, clothes, hats, manners — everything,
as far as I could see, .except morals. From
the tales over which they all chuckled I
should be inclined to think that we had
somewhat improved in this little respect ;
with regard to all else the laudatory temporis
act principle came in with a vengeance.

^' Look at the young men of the present
day," said old General Bayard, with a
fierce snort. " Why, there is not one of
'em who knows how to make love to a
woman or to put down a man. Look at

that row at the Club the other day.

In my time there would have been a slight
disagreement over the colour of the wallpaper,
or the Christian name of the head-waiter,
or the number of miles between

Hyde Park Corner and Newmarket, and the
two would have gone out like men and
settled it. Instead of that, here we have a
vulgar brawl, with a black eye, a meeting of
a Club committee, a scandal in the papers,
a woman's name introduced, lawyers consulted,
and a case in the Divorce Court.
Damme, sir ! if a man will break a Commandment,
let him do it like a gentleman,
and not like a barges !" And he glared at
me as if I had been one of the heroes of the
little fracas alluded to.

To tell the truth, I believe that, when they
had not me there to preach at, the dear old
gentlemen, casting off their innocent hypocrisy,
were more inclined to weep over their
lost capabilities of enjoying the present than
to magnify the somewhat apocryphal past.
The sight of me, young and ardent, in my
war-paint, dashing off to scenes which lent
the enchantment of distance to their recollections,
must have been a little mortifying,
no doubt ; and, while I longed to get on,

and prayed for that full military moustache
which is so long in coming, I little knew
how they envied the youth I was so carelessly
throwing behind me.

A good many philosophers have remarked
upon the celerity with which the pleasantness
portion of our existence slips away. In my
case I can easily account for the phenomenon.
Sign a bill at three months, renew it
when due once, twice, thrice, with the sad
certainty of having to meet it and its 
accruing interest at the end of the
last term, and you will be electrified to find
how quickly a year has passed away.

If there were bill stamps and usurers in
the lower regions, eternity could not be
considered long there.

"Mervin," said Old Gil, coming into my
room about noon one morning, and finding
me discussing my breakfast, " what's all
this about North ?"

VOL. I. K

'* What about him ?" I asked, my mouth
full of sausage.

"They say you and he are friends."

Yes — why not ? He's a capital chap —
knows everything and everybody. The
most popular man in London."

And hasn't a friend. You mustn't keep
it up."

*' Why not ?"

He looked a little puzzled for a reply,
and then said —

Your mother doesn't wish it."

I can't help that. Really, at that distance,
my mother can hardly expect to be
able to choose my friends. Tell me what
harm you know of him."

I can't say I know very much harm —
except that he is utterly unprincipled."

*^ Do you mean dishonest ?"

** Well, not exactly in the sense you mean
dishonest with regard to women."

I looked up, with a laugh in my eyes.

And what was old Lord Stufferton when

he was the hero of that capital story you all
were so delighted with the other day ? Not
over-honest to little — what was her name —
eh?"

But there are other reasons," said he,
rather peevishly.

Tell me them."

Do you mean to say, notwithstanding
your mother's wishes, you will adhere to
this harmful friendship ?"

You haven't proved that it is harmful.
Let my mother write and tell me why I am
to give up the friendship of a man who has
shown me great kindness — extraordinary
kindness, in fact."

Old Gil retired discomfited, and soon
after I received a long letter from Bally-honor,
in which my mother only amplified
his reasonless warnings against North, adding,
however —

*' In the event of your refusing to give
him up at once and for ever, I shall consider
the necessity of removing you from the

Guards, and, by taking you from London,,
also taking you out of the reach of his pernicious
influence."

I had only just put down this letter when
the subject of it entered. He had come to
fetch me for a ride in the Park, where I
caracolled daily on a lovely hack I had
bought from him for about half her value.

Instinctively I attempted to hide the
letter I had just laid down.

'* You have heard from — from your
mother?" he asked, looking straight into
my face, very serious.

'eyes."

*' I know what she said to you. I want
to know what your answer is going to be."

*' I don't quite understand " I began

bewildered.

No, I daresay not. But, nevertheless,
I do know all about it. She wishes you to
be no longer friends with me. Is it not so ?"

I was obliged to confess so much.

'' And you are hesitating ?"

''No. I cannot at all understand the
dislike my mother seems to have for you.
When did you know her ?"

'' Years ago. My character, whatever it
might have been then, has had ample time
to alter. When I knew your mother we
were both very young."

'' And you quarrelled ?"

He looked at me strangely for a moment.

*' Yes — we quarrelled."

What about ?"

I scarcely know. The quarrel was not
of my making. But it is better not to talk
of this, my dear Jock. The question is,
what are you going to say to her now ?"

I am going to say that I value your
friendship far too well to give it up,
unless "

'' Unless what ?" he asked, impatiently.

Unless she gives me ample reason."

Exactly. Write and ask her for that.
You will not surrender your good sense
entirely to her in this? It would be absurd.

You are a child no longer ; and you are in
the world. She is far from it, and can
know nothing of me now."

He spoke rapidly, excitedly ; and I was
naturally flattered.

Certainly I will not."

Well, then, will you let me tell you
what to write in answer ? Say that you
have spoken to me about it, and that I will
willingly take measures for the ending of
our friendship, if she will agree that, first,
in justice to me, I should tell you the reason
for her wishing this cessation."

"That sounds fair enough," I said, still
feeling flattered at his evident anxiety.

Yes, I think it is. And add this : Say
that if she at any time chooses to take
measures to remove you from me, such as
your exchanging from the Guards, I shall
then — again in self-justification — think myself
at liberty to tell you the reason of her
hatred, and to show you the proofs. Mind
you add that — * to show you the proofs.*

Sit down and write before we ride. It is
only half-past twelve."

He had obtained a strange influence over
me, and 1 obeyed without scruple, even
showing hin my letter before I placed it in
the envelope. At the end I had written : —
Do clear up this mystery, my dear mother.
I am quite at my wits' end to make out
what you all mean. First I get vague
warnings from my uncle, then Colonel Gilbeau
gives me mysterious advice, and no
reason for it, and now you. If you have
anything against North, except that he is no "
better than other people, tell me what it is."

'' I don't think she will," said he, smiling,
as he laid down the letter.

Because there isn't anything, I suppose.
My mother takes very strong likes and dislikes,"
said I ; and very soon we were
cantering up Rotten Row.

The answer from Ballyconor did not
come for some time, and then it was short
and cold : —

"My dear Mervin,

*' I am sorry my wishes are not
enough for you without explanation. However,
as you are so determined, I withdraw
my opposition to your friendship for Colonel
North. Arthur wishes me to say that he
wants a saddle.

Your affectionate

*' Mother."

I did not think much of the fact at the
time, having many things to think of; but it
struck me afterwards as odd that North
should never have evinced any curiosity as
to the effect of the letter he had inspired.
He came to Park Lane as a matter of
course, and I looked in at his chambers as
before ; and we went racing together and
rode together, and shared our amusements,
as if we were of the same age, instead of
there being some twenty-five years between
us.

It was a very good thing for a youngster,

MERVYN o'cONNOR. 137

as far as Society goes, being seen so much
with Bayley North; and before my first
season was over, what with that and Lady
Monymusk's marked preference, and my
own good spirits and general willingness to
oblige, I became as popular as any young
man could well wish to be. And to be
popular is to be happy. Although not exactly
an '' eligible," I had my fair share of
dining out, and a plethora of parties, balls,
picnics at Maidenhead, and all other possible
London amusements. With these, added to
a pretty constant attendance to my soldier
duties, it may be guessed that I did not find
time hang heavy on my hands ; and the
amount of actual physical labour I got
through between the time of parade at perhaps
eight a.m. and the end of a cotillon at
perhaps five o'clock a.m. the following day
would have astonished a Radical agitator
grumbling at the habits of " the idle classes''
But, amid all my flirtations in ball-rooms
and in quiet nooks of the Thames valley, I

was as safe as an ironclad amid a fleet of
three-deckers would be. Lady Monymusk
absorbed my entire devotion, and, although
one or two young ladies tried to shake heron
her throne, they soon gave up the attempt
as impracticable.

'*01d Gil," who of course heard all about
it, scarcely knew what to say.

Tm not sure that it isn't safer for you
than to go falling in love right and left with
girls without a penny. If an heiress should
turn up, I'm sure Lady Monymusk has good
sense enough to retire : and otherwise the
idea of your marrying for the next ten years
is absurd."

'but you don't really suppose there is
anything between me and Lady Monymusk !"
I exclaimed, with dignified astonishment —
although the coupling of our names together
afforded me much secret joy. "We are
only friends. I am useful to find her carriage
and hold her fan — that is all."

The old gentleman looked at me whimsically,

as if to see how much I meant of this
speech.

^'No, no, my boy ! The husband is the
cavaliers servant nowadays."

What he meant T could not guess ; and at
that moment my servant came to say that
Colonel North was in my room. *' Old Gil"
groaned, and I went downstairs.

'* Where are you going this afternoon?"
asked North, who was ensconced in my
most comfortable chair, turning over the
leaves of a photographic book crammed
with beauties.

I'm going to church' I replied, colouring
— I could not tell why. There seemed
something mawkish about going to church
when near Bayley North.

"To church!" He gave a low whistle.
'' Do you often do it ?"

A remembrance of some story I had read
in my youth of a boy kneeling down to say
his prayers the first night at school amid
jeers and a shower of slippers came across

my mind : and this time I answered more
boldly—

Every Sunday !"

** Ah !" He said nothing for a few minutes,
and then looked up suddenly — " I'll go with
you."

If the statue at the top of the Wellington
Monument had suddenly come down and
volunteered to take my duty at the next
field-day in the Park I could not have been
much more astonished. However, it would
scarcely have seemed polite to say so, and
off we set to a church whose modified
highness " and artistic decoration gratified
my uneducated sense of the beautiful and
fitting.

Looking at my companion at the conclusion
of that exquisite hymn, 'nearer to
Thee," I was astonished to meet his eyes —
with a soft look in them I had never seen
before, save when he drew me towards him
in my tutor's room at Harreton — bent
earnestly upon me ; and still more so when

I discovered that they were full of tears.

As we came out he laid his hand on my

shoulder for a moment, and I thought I

heard the muttered words, *' God bless

you!"

^ ^ # # -^ *

Been to church with Bayley North ! T
say, you fellows, wonders will never cease.
Here's Jock declaring that Bayley North's
been to church !"

General astonishment and incredulity on
the part of the other Club members present,
until one, a philosopher of nineteen, removes
a portentous cigar from his lips and settles
the matter.

Gone to look after some pious woman,
you may be sure. There's no better
moment to take 'em than when they're
touched up by religious hysterics."

CHAPTER IX.

DINNER IN HERTFORD STREET.

^' TllT^"'^^ are you going to do to-night ?"
* said Bayley North to me one day
as he was sitting in my room.

I blushed. Why I should have blushed
because of my engagement to dine with the
Monymusks I know not; but the fact
remains. North looked at me curiously.

Don't tell me if you "

'' Oh, no !" I broke in, annoyed beyond
measure with myself; "it's no secret. I'm
going to dine in Hertford Street with the
Monymusks."

He smiled.

^' Have you met him yet ?"

'' No."

'' You have a treat in store for you. He
is like an ogre of a fairy tale ; or the Beast
that married Beauty, minus the future
transformation into a prince."

She is very lovely, isn't she ?" I asked,
with the youthful desire to hear praise of
the queen of my heart.

'eyes, Gertrude Monymusk is a pretty
little thing. But don't get too deep there.
You'll never get out if you don't take care.
Two or three fellows have gone under
altogether, and you're impressionable,
Mervin."

Oh, we're only friends, you know —
quite Platonic," I answered, delighted at the
implied flattery.

Ye — es," he said, meditatively, drawing
at his cigar. ** Ye — es, I don't see any harm
in it up to a certain point. But remember
one thing— you are a good-looking,
agreeable boy, run after by women, and

well worth catching ; but never dream that
you will minister to anything more than my
Lady's vanity. She's got as much heart as
this cigar, which, by the way, doesn't draw.
Give me another."

How do you know ?"

He stared as he cut off the end of another
of my monsters.

"How do I know? How long do you
think I have been going about London ?"

Yes, that's all very well ; but no
amount of that would tell whether a
woman had a heart or not."

Well, she may have ; it hasn't been
stirred yet, at all events. Listen a moment
and I'll tell you her history. She is the
daughter of a parson in Somersetshire,
where the Tillifruries have a small place, you
know. Well, when she was seventeen, she
went to a ball at Bath, and there she met
Bob De Vere, a young gentleman in the
th Hussars, with some thousands a year
for income. He proceeded to fall head

over ears in love with her, and a match was
arranged. It was pretty good for her, as
she had two or three sisters, and he had
hopes of some more money from an uncle.
The uncle was a queer chap, and to give
his consent to the marriage (which meant
leaving Bob his money) he required him to
sell out. Bob was desperately fond of the
service, and the idol of his regiment. He
hadn't made any friends outside it, and in
the interval between his selling out (for he
obeyed the stern uncle) and the time fixed
for his marriage he was like a fish out of
water. I met him one day on the steps of
the Rag, and a more forlorn spectacle I
never encountered. Well, about a week
before the wedding-day, young Monymusk
went down to Somersetshire and met
la helle Gertrude. I think it was at a
croquet party. Anyhow she made desperate
love to him, and managed, on some
plea or other, to get the wedding-day
postponed. Before the second date came

VOL. I. L

she had hooked her fish, and wrote to Bob
to say she had made a mistake — that her
heart was another's, &c., and that where she
gave her hand she must give the other
article, that same heart. And so she
became Lady Monymusk, prospective Marchioness
of TilHfrurie."

"And De Vere ? " I asked, not quite
relishing the story, but already finding
hundreds of excuses for my goddess.

*' Oh, Bob went to the bad, lost his
money first at play, and then his wits at
drink. In a lunatic asylum now, poor
chap !"

"• It sounds hard," I began ; " but all the

same "

All the same you find plenty of reason
for her Ladyship's conduct. Of course you
do. So did I at one time, for husbands
like Monymusk, when they have pretty
wives, are a positive boon to society. But I
fancy my Lord fathomed his wife's character
pretty soon, and that she hasn't had the

easy time of it she expected. He is simply
mad with jealousy, and does the most
ridiculous things. There is insanity in his
family too, and I never should be surprised
to hear that he had cut his wife's or his own
throat some night after she has danced
twice with some young gentleman — yourself,
for instance."

*^ And is his jealousy the reason why she
retires altogether from the world every now
and then ?"

Yes. They say he beats her, and then
has wild fits of contrite affection, which must
be almost more alarming. There was one
capital story of his bringing a detective to
watch her window from a balcony when he
Monymusk — was supposed to be out of
town ; and his nearly killing the detective,
having forgotten his plot, and fancying him
a lover about to enter by the balcony.
It's a toss-up whether she gets him into
a lunatic asylum before he commits
manslaughter. If she does manage it, it will

l2

be curious that one woman should have
driven two men into the hands of the mad
doctors."

^'But she gives him no reason for
jealousy ?"

North looked at me curiously for a
moment, and then replied, with infinite
dryness —

No. Of course not."

*' Do you know her well ?"

As well as she can be known. And
that is the reason I ventured to warn you
against going too far. You are young and
credulous, and I don't want you to be made
cynical and bitter before it's necessary.
The ignorance of youth is the pleasantness
thing on earth ; and the longer we can keep
our teeth from the fruit of the tree of
knowledge the better for us. Believe in
her smiles, my dear boy ; believe her when
she tells you that she prefers you just now
to all other men ; believe her when she
recounts all she braves from her husband

for your sake ; but do not believe that all
this is anything more than the suitable
amusement of one or even of two seasons,
to be looked back to in after-life pleasantly
enough — if dropped at the proper time."
'* And when is the proper time ?"
"Ah, there you have the secret of
success in such affairs. I mean success in
keeping them altogether sweet, as love
affairs should surely be. A man and woman
engaged in a liaison are playing a very
pretty game of skill — the stakes being their
peace of mind and self-conceit. And the
winner is the one Who first detects the signs
which tell of the approaching end of the
affair, and, instead of waiting for dismissal,
promptly bursts his or her bands asunder.
The end of these things is desperately bitter
the dregs horribly nauseous. As you
should rise, they say, from a dinner-table
with appetite still left, so should you break
off a love affair with just enough love and
regret left to make a firm, wholesome,

lasting friendship. That's where the-doctrines
of Plato come in. As well talk
of them at the beginning as lecture a
starving man on the ills of dyspepsia. Let
a love affair die its own natural death, and
what is the result ? The one lover is
wearied to death, to loathing, by the
necessity of simulating a feeling which is
gone, until the power of such simulation
goes too ; and the other is sickened by
seeing through the play-acting of the other,
and broken-hearted when the truth, long
suspected, comes out in its coarse and
unfeeling nakedness. There can be no
friendship after that, only repugnance
and hatred, and the recollection of what has
been so sweet remains in the memory as a
curse and an injury."

'* All this," T said, lying back in my chair,
and speaking with all the confident
philosophy of youth ; *^ all this may be true
enough in ordinary instances ; but it is
based on the vulgar notion that love can

never be permanent — that there is no such
thing."

There may be ; there may exist ghosts
and sea-serpents; some one may discover
perpetual motion, or a cure for sea-sickness,
or an honest horse dealer, or a pretty woman
who never looks in the glass. Oh, yes,
there may be."

I feel that there is," 1 exclaimed, starting
from my chair, and walking up and down
the room with rapid strides.

'' Of course you do ; you are young. If
you could be permanently young, the'
feeling would be right. But we have
moralised enough. The horses have been
here a long time, and it's past one. Your
divinity goes home at half-past, so there is
not much time."

*did you lose much money at Ascot?"
asked Lady Monymusk, some ten
minutes after, as I rode by the side of her
exquisite chestnut hack and cast side-glances

at her wondrously graceful figure, seen to
superb advantage as she sat square on the
saddle.

'' No ; thanks to North."

Always North," she muttered under her
breath. " How do you come to be such
friends ?"

"1 don't know. He is such good company,
you know."

*' Yes ; so men say — and women, too, for
the matter of that. But I never knew him
take so much trouble with a boy before.
You're not offended?" she asked, with a
malicious smile, as she saw a cloud upon my
face.

"Oh, no," I replied, with an attempt at
hauteur which made her laugh again.

Don't be ashamed of being young, Mervin,"
she said, in a low tone, as she pulled
her horse up at the corner by Albert Gate.
*now good-bye. You dine, remember, tonight.
Don't be surprised if I suddenly say
good night to you, and go directly if I do."

She had called me by ray Christian name.
All North's history was swept away from my
memory as if it had never been. And I
only remembered that she had called me
Mervin, and that I loved her.

I thought that day would never pass ; but
at length it was eight o' clock and I could
throw myself into a hansom and drive to
Hertford Street. There were only a few
people in the drawing-room when I entered,
one of them, however, being my host,
Lord Monymusk. He was a tall, gaunt
man, with a profusion of black hair and'
an unkempt beard. Singularly ungainly
in figure and untidy in dress, there was,
nevertheless, something about him which
bespoke the gentleman; and his greeting
of me, though awkward and almost shy,
was cordial enough. I noticed that once
or twice, when I was talking to other
people, his eyes wandered to me, with a
curious expression — a mixture of curiosity
and defiance. The butler announced dinner.

'' We will go in," said the host. ^* Gertrude
is not well — a headache. She will join
us afterwards, if possible." And so we
went in to dinner, while I wondered and
felt strangely disappointed. Was it fancy,
or, as I sat down, did I catch Lord Mony-musk's
eyes fixed upon me with an undisguised
look of malignant triumph ? I was
seated near him, and before long I ventured
to say —

*'I hope Lady Monymusk is not very unwell
? I saw her in the Park this morning,
and then she seemed "

"Sudden headache — subject to them," he
said, abruptly ; and I felt it impossible to
pursue the subject. The dinner was as dull
as it well could be. There was a feeling of
restraint upon us all, and our host's presence
seemed to freeze up the conversation of even
Algy Paint, the great dinner-talker, who
was there.

"• I don't believe a word of her headache,"
he said to me, as we walked out of the

house together. " It's one of his jealous fits.
He's seen her talking to some man for more
than a minute — I believe that is the limit
allowed. I think I heard you tell our
sprightly host that you were not going to
Mrs. Render's, or I could have given you a
lift."

No. I should have liked to go, if only
to see the house ; but I'm not asked. I
don't know her."

'^I do — very well — and can ask anyone
I like. Come with me."

"All right," and I followed Algy into his'
brougham.

Render House was looking its best, and
the ball came up to the reputation of the
best house for such things in London. After
my fill of dancing, I was roaming through
the drawing-rooms — now nearly deserted,
as a dance was going on, and the supper-room
had just been opened — when, to my
intense astonishment, I came face to face
with the object of my thoughts — Lady

Monymusk — leaning on the arm of Count
Annette, one of the foreign attaches.

"You turn up at the right moment, Mr.
O'Connor," she said, with a gay smile.
Here's poor Count Annette longing to
dance, and, instead, being victimised with
me doing the round of the Render pictures.
You are released now, Count ; I shall continue
my lecture on Art to this gentleman.
He is younger, and therefore more patient
than you are."

"I am sure, to hear Lady Monymusk
talk on any subject is a delight — even on
one "

She doesn't understand — eh ? Never
mind. I forgive you. Run away to your
valse. It is curious," she went on as, with
a courtly bow, the Count disappeared,
what a serious thing it is with some of
these foreigners to miss a dance. The poor
man has nearly died of my love for Art."

'' But I thought you were laid up — your
headache "

I had no headache. At least," she
added, noticing my look of surprise — " at
least, it was not very bad. I hope your
dinner wasn't dull."

** But it was."

'' That's rude of you. I asked little Mrs.
Montague on purpose to amuse you."

She didn't."

I suppose my tone was very gruff, for she
burst out laughing, and laid her hand on
my arm. The touch made me shiver, and
the blood to tingle in my veins.

*' Poor boy — is he sulky ?"

And she laughed again ; but the raillery
in her eyes was not unkind and I took
courage.

"It was dull because you were not there.
Do you think I can look at or think of any
other woman ?"

This speech out, I held my breath. For
less I felt she would be warranted in giving
me instant dismissal. But after a little
pause, which seemed an age to me, and

during which she played with her fan, she
only laughed again.

'' What an impressionable youth it is !
Does my presence or absence really make
any difference to you, Mervin ?"

Again my name — uttered, oh ! so softly,
it seemed no one had ever known its true
pronunciation before. But with all my
ardour I was timid, inexperienced, and all I
answered was —

Yes — you know it does — all the difference."


"Let me see — how long have we known
one another? What would people say if
they knew that, at such a short acquaintance,
I allowed you to make love to me?
You must think me — I hate the word, but
I know no other — a flirt."

I — think you " I stammered quite

unable to find words in which to express
my scornful repudiation of such a term
applied to her.

'' Some people say I am, you know.
Now, your friend, Colonel North, what has
he said of me''

"Said of you?"

Yes, tell me. I am one of the few
women who can keep a confidence. If you
like me, as you say — no, you mustn't hold
my hand, some one might come in — you
must tell me. What did Bayley North tell
you of me?"

No love-stricken youth on earth could
have withstood the command of her proud,
imperious eyes. I told her the whole story
as he had told it to me.

"And you believe all this?" she asked,
when I had finished.

There was a mournful inflection in her
tone which thrilled me to the heart.

No, I didn't. I thought it was distorted,
exaggerated, untrue."

It is true that poor Robert De Vere did
love me," she said, in a low tone, standing

straight in front of me, and looking into my
eyes with an expression that defied disbelief.
"It is true that at one time I thought I
loved him. But before I ever knew Lord
Monymusk I had discovered my mistake,
and had told him our marriage was impossible.
Then — when I felt very sad and lonely
and weary of life, regretting the honesty
which had made me throw away what was
to me then a good match, for he would
have been well off — I met my husband.
My father was poor ; he urged me for my
sisters' sake to accept him. If not exactly
in love ' — some people are never privileged
to have that happiness, you know — I liked
him as well as in my depressed state I
thought I could like anyone. He offered
to do very generous things for my father
and my sisters, and to help my brother
in life. I may have been wrong to give
way — I believe I was — but at least there
was nothing to reproach me with on the
score of Robert De Vere. But, of course.

people who like to talk of women's heartlessness
did invent a story about that. And
you believed it?"

Her plaintive look touched me. In a
moment her little hand was in mine. I
drew her towards me; her soft breath
fanned my cheek, when suddenly she tore
herself away, and, looking round, I saw
North, with a partner on his arm, coming
slowly up the room.

As he passed us he paused for a moment
and said —

**I am so glad to see you here, Lady
Monymusk, as I heard you were ill. I
met his Lordship just now; came straight
from the House. They didn't divide,
after all."

'ego," she whispered hoarsely to me, ashe
passed on; 'ego — I will return lo the
ball-room that way. You go straight to the
hall and out."

She was deadly pale, and I could see she
trembled.

VOL. I. M

I will tell you why some day. Go now,
only go !"

I hurried downstairs, and at the foot
met Lord Monymusk talking to several men.
As he saw me I started at the sudden change
in his expression. His eyes seemed to
shrivel up into two little balls of fire, and his
complexion turned a ghastly green. Then
I got my coat and walked home, wondering
what all this mystery meant, and went to
bed and dreamed a dream in which the
lovely vision of Gertrude Monymusk was
perpetually changing to a demoniacal
monster with masses of raven hair, and two
jets of fire for eyes.

For a whole week I heard nothing of my
divinity, and at the end of that time I had
the satisfaction of reading in the fashionable
intelligence that " Lord and Lady Monymusk
have left Hertford Street for the Continent."


No one seemed to know whither they
had gone, and " the Continent " is a large

place. Besides this, I was tied to London
by the routine of guard-mounting, field-days,
and piquet duty.

m2

CHAPTER X.

A VISIT TO WANDSWORTH.

"II /FY DEAR NEPHEW,— Come and
-^'-*- see me tomorrow. I particularly
wish it, as 1 have something of importance
to say. Yours affectionately,

"James O'Connor."

This note was put into my hand one
morning when I had just come off guard,
and, a little interested in my mysterious
relative, I abandoned all thoughts of riding
in the Park, and proceeded to embark for
Wandsworth, after looking into Colonel
Gilbeau's room to tell him of my errand.

Going to see James !" he exclaimed.
^' By Jove ! Are you armed ?"

"Armed! Do you think it a service of
danger, then ?"

Danger ! I believe no one ever emerges
alive. It's my belief the old gentleman is
a cannibal ; but you don't look appetising,
my boy — not flesh enough yet. He'll keep
you some time to fatten. Seriously, though,
I think you ought to make notes ; for any
publisher in the neighbourhood would jump
at an account of a visit to Castle Dangerous,
as they call it about there, I am told."

You must get up a dinner to me as an
explorer," said I, laughing ; and in a moment
I was bowling along behind a little
mare, lately picked up, together with T-cart
and harness, from one of my brother officers
for a mere song.

Given a knowledge of the whereabouts
of Wandsworth Common, the finding of
Manor Lodge was easy enough. Everyone
knew it, and one or two shop-people of

whom I inquired looked at me much as the
gentlemen who attended the "levee" Martin
Chuzzlewit held ere going to Eden
looked at that sanguine gentleman. Nothing
of the house could be seen as I drove
up to the gate — made of rusty iron, and
boarded upon the inside — for it was completely
hidden by a wall about fifteen feet
high, surmounted by an imposing array of
broken bottles, and offering a very substantial
resistance to an enemy unprovided with
artillery or scaling-ladders. The bell taxed
all the strength of my boy — neatest and
tiniest of tigers — to pull ; and when, by
dint of putting his little boots up against
the wall, he succeeded in making it ring, it
seemed as if it never would cease, so astonished
was it at this unwonted frolic. After
a time, we heard the undoing of chains and
drawing back of bolts, and then the door,
creaking horribly, swung back a short distance,
and an old man's face appeared in
the aperture — a face that might have belonged

to the very incarnation of suspicion
and distrust.

"What do you want? — who are you?"

*^ You're a nice old chap," replied I, gaily,
and your welcome is delightful. I am
the first of a party your master has asked
to dance here this afternoon. Nineteen
waggon-loads coming, besides the omnibus
with the ballet-girls."

The scowl on the old man's face as I
chaffed him was perfectly diabolical. With
a muttered oath, he was about to close the
gate, when I sprang down and managed to
get ray foot up against it.

*'Woa ! Not so fast! I've come to see
your master, and I'm not going back without
seeing him."

See my master !" The old villain
laughed in a fiendish way that would have
curdled one's blood in a lonesome place at
midnight. " And you think you'll do that,
do you, my young gentleman ?"

I'm sure of it, my old friend. Look

here ! " and I produced my uncle's note.

He read it in silence, returned it to me,
undid the chain he had kept fastened, and
opened the door just sufficiently for me to
pass through.

I entered a stone-paved courtyard, on
two sides of which there ran an inner wall,
while on that opposite me stood the house
a square red brick edifice with stone
facings, gloomy and uncompromising-looking,
with its blinds drawn down, and an
undefinable air of death about it that struck
a chill into my heart even in the midst of
my careless, reckless gaiety.

He's been expecting you all day," said
my guide, fumbling in his pockets for another
key, with which he opened the front
door.

As I hesitated, the darkness inside being
intense, I heard a deep growl, and in an
instant an enormous St. Bernard dog leaped
out, only, however, to lie down obediently
at a word from the servant. The latter

struck a match and lit a solitary jet of gas ;
and I then, stepping into the hall, found
myself surrounded by dogs — dogs of all
sizes and breeds, from the Newfoundland
to the fox-terrier, from a remarkably 
greyhound to a cur whose
position with regard to a knowledge of its
father must have been humiliating. What
struck me as odd in this assemblage was
their silence. Some growled, some wagged
their tails, many scratched, but not one
barked. Silence was evidently the genius
of the place, and, unimpressionable as I
was, I felt a strange difficulty in speaking
in my usual rather loud cheery accents.

*' What a lot of dogs ! Where does my
uncle get them all ? Stolen, eh?"

Upstairs," was all the answer I received,
as my guide pointed to the dark staircase.

I ascended, and on the first story he
opened a green baize door, which led into
outer darkness, and then another beyond,
through which I emerged into a long low

room, the walls of which were covered with
bookshelves, save at one end, where there
was nothing but a curtain of some dark
material.

The servant ushered rae in, closed the
door behind me, and departed, and, just as
the last sound of his tread had died away,
I became aware of a figure advancing from
a corner of the apartment — advancing so
noiselessly that, in the half light, it had all
the effects of an apparition.

But I was young, of good digestion, and
rather devoid of imagination. So I said,
boldly enough —

Is that you, uncle ?"

I am your uncle, James O'Connor. It
is a cursed name. Sit down, Mervin."

These words were said in a short, deliberate
manner that seemed to me to hide
inward pain. I sat down, and, as my eyes
grew accustomed to the semi-darkness, I
was able to distinguish my uncle's features.
They were eminently handsome, and impressed

me with the truth of what I had
been told — that he was, in his young days
far better-looking than even my father.
The features were regular and clearly cut.
There was the same masterful look in the
eyes that I had remarked in my father's
picture, only more strongly developed. The
sternly-set mouth was like that of the portrait,
except that it again exaggerated the
expression of the latter ; and I could scarcely
imagine a smile relaxing its fixed look of
bitter scorn.

As I observed him, he was occupied in
doing the same thing for me ; and it was
scarcely complimentary to me that when he
had finished his survey he sighed deeply, as
if much disappointed.

"It was good of you to come," he said at
length, with a sort of measured and contemptuous
courtesy that checked the light
remarks that rose to my lips. '*I suppose
that you have much of what you dignify by
the name of occupation in your life."

I am sure, my dear uncle," I replied,
my exuberant spirits breaking through all
restraint, "if you don't call guarding Her
Most Sacred Majesty at St. James's Palace
occupation, I don't know what ypu would
call it. We are, as you know, on the brink
of a revolution ; at any moment the sans-culotte
cabman of London "

"You wonder why I have sent for you,"
he went on, taking no notice whatever of
my attempt at humour, " and I will hasten
to explain. You have heard me spoken
of?"

"Very little. No one seems to know
anything of you. I heard you did good."

"Good!" and he started with an impatient
gesture. " Good ! As if any one man
could do good, unless "

He checked himself suddenly, and changed
his manner.

But I have not brought you up here to
talk about social science and what we can

do with our criminals or with our laws or
manners. If I get on the subject of injustice
I am hard to stop. I brought you here
for personal reasons — personal to you as
well as to me."

His manner — so calm, so gentleman-like,
so dignified — impressed me in spite of myself,
and I bowed my head in token that I
would listen in silence, which was not a
thing 1 often did.

'' Mervin O'Connor, did anyone — did
your mother — ever tell you of the traditions
of our race ? You need not answer. I see'
she has not — that no one has. Indeed, I
was sure of it before I saw you, from things
I had heard of you. You may think it odd
that I, cooped up here with my dogs and
that old servant, should hear anything of
the outer world; but I made some good
friends in the old days — friends whom even
such eccentricities as mine cannot shake
wholly off. They sometimes write to me,

and one of them, only two days ago, wrote
that you were — were supposed to disentangled
with a woman."

An indignant denial seemed out of place
here. Besides — to speak it low — my self-conceit,
with which article most young men
are plentifully supplied, was pleased by the
thought that I should even be thought of
with her. So I said nothing.

I am partially a believer in predestination
; but when I heard this I thought that
injustice to you — in justice even to myself
I was bound to give you a chance — the
chance of fore-knowledge — of escaping the
course of our house."

*' What is this curse ?" I asked, looking;
curiously at his weary eyes.

"I sent for you to tell you that. Hark !
Do you hear nothing ?"

*' One of the dogs howling," I hazarded.

*'No; none of my dogs howl. There it
is again, distinct and clear !" He rose from
his seat with agitation in his face as a sound

as of the wind whistling in the gable of an
old house came upon us.

Wind," I said again.

Wind ! Open the window. Is there a
breath stirring ?"

I did as he directed. It was perfectly
still and calm. There was no sound in the
air save the rumbling of a cab and the distant
noise of a train thundering along the
line.

When I turned back to the room, ray-uncle
was re-seated.

*that means a misfortune to the house,"
he said, calmly. " Heaven knows we have
had enough !"

"Why, Uncle James," I cried, 'you
don't mean to say that you believe in the
old banshee business ?"

Wait !" he said, impressively, motioning
me to sit down. " Wait ; and now listen.
The O'connor were always a wild race,
from the time when they disputed supremacy
with the Macmurroughs and other chiefs.

to the tamer days when one of them threw
in his lot as an adherent of Queen Elizabeth,
and betrayed his country and his cause, for
the sake of the bright eyes of a woman who
came over with Lord Essex to subdue Ireland.
You are not well read enough in
Irish history to know of the massacre of
Killeagh. Massacres were common enough
then, but this was marked by features of
extraordinary treachery and cold-blooded
cruelty. Our ancestor, E-uadh O'Connor,
was the traitor, and, as he was going to his
terrible doom, one of his own race — a
chieftain's wife, and esteemed a prophetess
—turned on him and cursed him. It was
for a woman's smile that he had sinned ; by
a woman's smile he should perish, and by
women's smiles should perish all his race.
The woman for whom he had lost his soul
betrayed him — she had only been acting a
part — and he killed her and himself. You
know something of your family history since

then — you have heard of the death of
Mervin O'Connor of Archaic ?"

^'He died swimming his horse across a
swollen ford."

Yes, to visit his paramour. You have
heard that his son Arthur, the first baronet,
who so upheld the family honour and added
to the family wealth, died in his bed. I
think I could prove — I have, at least, proved
to myself — that he was poisoned by a woman
he had in early life betrayed. His heir
perished in Austria — how was never ascertained.
The next O'Connor of our house
was killed, as you know, in a duel — about a
woman, of course. The next, after a reign
at Ballyconor of fifteen years, died of softening
of the brain, really mad for love of a
woman who scorned him. But I will not
weary you with the list. No O'Connor has
reached more, than middle age — all have
died for one reason. To come to later
times "

VOL. I. N

"Yes," r said, drawing my chair nearer
to his ; " yes, to come to later times."

'^ Your grandfather, my father, was found
in the lake one morning — dead. He had
gone there as usual to feed his wild ducks,
and slipped in. Nothing more natural.
Few people knew that he met there that
morning a woman of the fierce Western
blood, to whom he had brought the shame
of a nameless child ; few people connected
with the baronet's death the finding, some
weeks after, of a dark-eyed woman's body
among the rushes, clasping in her arms a
dead child. She had wandered from the
high-road and slipped in. Of course. So
she was given a pauper's funeral, and he
sleeps where you know, with that pompous
inscription on his monument. Your
father "

Yes, my father "

Your father died by his own hand."

'^ Uncle!"

It is too true. But first let me tell you
something more.* Years ago I went to
Rome. I was 3^oung and impressionable as
you are. I was a firm believer in woman's
love, as you doubtless are. I laughed at
the old legends of my family, as you do. I
met a woman who seemed to me to embody
every earthly possibility of perfection. I
loved her madly, devotedly. She swore she
returned my passion. She was as false as
hell. I discovered one day that she was
prepared to betray me for a man whose
name I did not know. I determined to
surprise them, and I went, bent on revenge,
to the meeting-place I had discovered. But
my vengeance failed me — the man was my
own brother."

"My father!"

"Froui that hour I believed in the Curse.
I left them together ; I never saw either
again ; I never heard from your father again
until — until the day before he died. Then

n2

I was revenged ; but I no longer wished for
vengeance. I only saw in* it all the working
of the Curse."

And the woman you both loved ?" I
asked.

He hesitated.

No matter. She betrayed us both.
She left him — death ; and me a life which
is almost death. No other woman has
heard my voice since ; for the moment that
I knew I was betrayed, that I escaped so
hardly from shedding a brother's blood —
for it nearly came to that in my first frenzy
-■ — I shut myself from the world. Whether
Destiny is satisfied with my expiation, I
know not. I suffer here at times such tortures
as would befit a damned one. But I
hope to die soon."

He ceased. His head sank down into his
hands, and he seemed to pray. Then he
raised his head, and his face was again calm
and dignified in expression.

I had a portrait of her, painted at Rome

in the days when we were happy. Time
after time have I tried to destroy it, but
dare not. Thus the Curse is fulfilled with
me. Whenever I am tempted to draw aside
that curtain " — and he indicated the curtain
I had noticed at the end of the room — " I
remember ; I live through again the misery
of that supreme moment when all the light
of life went out from me, and left me to
live on in darkness and loneliness."

He paused again. At last I broke the
silence.

May I see it ?"

"No, not now; perhaps never. Better
not. Do you believe what I have told
you?"

I scarcely knew what to say. That by
living alone and brooding over this fanciful
family legend his brain had given way, I did
believe.

"Are you sure about my father?"

"Sure! Mervin, I never told a lie in
my life. Your poor father wrote to me the

very night he put an end to his existence,
telling me of his intention, and telling me
its cause'

He took a letter from a desk near him,
and, turning down a portion, held it towards
me to read, having previously lit a candle.

I read these words —

The Curse is true, brother. She has
ruined both our lives. You have the
strength to live. I have only enough to
die. Forgive me for any harsh words I
used that day. 1 wish I could shake your
hand a^sdn. But — I must die to-nidit.
Good-bye. Your brother,

'* Arthur."

But this woman !" I cried, bewildered.
'' Who was she ? My father was on the
point of leaving his regiment and coming
home. He "

'^ Do not ask more, Mervin O'Connor.
But let me say that now of which all this
has only been, the preliminary. Are you

about to allow a woman to wreck your
life ? It may be that the Curse may die
out. It may be that it can be broken by
strength and determination. This woman
cast her off — fly her ! Save yourself
Mervin O'Connor ! Save yourself, my poor
bov, ere it is too late."

He rose as he spoke, and a light of affection
came into his eyes.

'' And Arthur ?" I asked, avoiding the
subject.

Arthur ? He is in less danger than
you. From what I hear, as well by
temperament as by position, he is safer.
Mervin, it is of you I now speak. Save
yourself while there is time. Give up this
boyish infatuation. Be brave. Break down
the Curse at last that has been the ruin of
our house."

I am in no danger," I said, thinking it
was time to escape from this madman, to
whom it would have been no use to talk of
Plato.

No danger ! Is it not true that you

think only of one woman — that you "

'^ My dear uncle," I said, rising and
taking up my hat, " you have been strangely
misinformed. A lady — a married lady
is kind enough to be my friend ; and forme
to think of her even in the manner you
indicate would be an insult to her. It is
still more so to discuss such a possibility
with anyone. I must decline to do so. I
do not, I own, believe in family legends,
banshees, family ghosts, or curses. What
you have told me about my father is very

sad and very terrible. I only wish "

He interrupted me.

'* Boy, your incredulity will be your ruin.
But I can say no more. No words of ruin,
I see, can avert the workings of Destiny. I
will detain you no longer."

I escaped, and, as I emerged into the
sunshine, felt as if I were coming out of
prison.

The story I had heard did not fail to

make an impression on me ; but my natural
buoyancy of spirits soon came to the rescue,
and as I sent my little mare along Park
Lane I had nearly forgotten all my uncle's
gloomy prophecies.

In the hall of our house Colonel Gilbeau
met me. There was misfortune in his face.

"What is it?"

Come in here, Mervin — prepare for a
shock. Your poor brother Arthur has had
an accident ; he is very badly hurt — very
badly !"

'' Arthur ! Oh, God ! But there is hope
say there is hope !"

There is no hope, my poor boy — none."

Not dead ? Not dead ?"

"Yes— dead."

CHAPTER XL

SIR MERVYN.

NEXT, perhaps, to our first love our first
loss is the principal epoch in our
lives. Just as the heart becomes more and
more callous to Cupid's pricking, and bears
calmly at the age of thirty a coldness from
Julia which at twenty-five would have
caused instant suicide, so does it after a
time learn to philosophise over Death ; perhaps,
who knows ? secretly trying to allay
fears which intrude themselves concerning
the day when itself shall cease to beat.

When old Tomkins passes away, and his
Club arm-chair knows him no more, the

thought really uppermost in the mind of his
two cronies, old Bodkins and old Jenkins,
is that their " Poor fellow ! I always told
him that, if he didn't take care and have
medical advice, he would go suddenly," or
What else could such over-doctoring and
coddling result in ?" &c., are all humbug ; that
what the dear prosy fellow died of is just
age; and that they, too, who are temporarily
left, are as sick of this as he.

When your pious elderly lady hears of
her friend's death, and, scarcely pausing in
her needlework, ejaculates, "All flesh is
grass; we are here to-day and gone tomorrow
!" what is she doing in that tough
old heart of hers but striving, by dint of a
wordy philosophy, to stifle the terror of
dying also which has arisen there ?

The fact is that dying is to many people
a kind of disagreeable fable — a fairy-tale
ogre which may be salutary in story, but is
really of doubtful existence. We can imagine
the death of any friend and relative.

Poor Jones! Did you notice his colour
sand hear him cough ? He is not long for
this world ! And how Brown lives at allis
a mystery ! Two fits already ; a third
will do it ! All this time we never dream
that Jones and Brown, hob-robbing in the
Club smoking-room after we have gone, are
exchanging confidences as to the certainty
with which they prognosticate our own
demise before the year is out.

It is morbid, you say, kind and genial
reader, to dwell upon that one certainty of
Life — Death. Why? If we are, after a
lapse of no matter how long a time, going
to a. certain country — say to emigrate to
America — should we not often think of
what outfit must be bought, what friends
we should persuade to come with us, what
route we should take, what capital is
required, and the rest of it? And all this
should we do for a doubtful contingency
for we might change our minds, or come
into a fortune, or be made Prime Minister,

or go mad and become a successful poet,
or take to thieving and be sent to penal
servitude.

Now we most decidedly shall die ; and it
is morbid to think of this, or make arrangements
to meet it. Is it ?

But the idea of a subaltern in the Army
preaching a sermon is preposterous, and I
apologise. My excuse must be that the loss
of my brother Arthur was very great, and
even yet, after this lapse of time, is sadly
fresh in my memory.

Every incident of our boyish life together
came before me as I travelled from London
towards my home ; and the newspaper I
held before me and vainly strove to concentrate
my attention upon was wetted with
tears of which I need not have been
ashamed. '' I was a very happy man," has
said some writer, " as long as I could cry."
Oh, the tears of youth, how soon their
source becomes dried up !

Every incident in that sad journey stands

out distinctly before rae now — the commercial
traveller who made such terrible jokes
over his whisky and water in the steamer's
saloon ; the yellow-faced lady who tied
up ]her face as you tie up the face of
a corpse and proceeded to be sea-sick
before we had cast off from the pier;
the plucky amateur sailor who walked
on the upper-deck smoking a black cigar
defiantly, and gazing over the side to leeward
when no one was looking ; the
National " newspaper I purchased on
landing. By-the-by, I preserved this last,
and it may divert the reader to see a copy
•of it.

The time, I should premise, was one of
disturbance in Ireland — a not very unfrequent
occurrence, I have heard. Fenians
were marching up and down ; rents were
being refused; "the land for the people"
was being demanded, and in a few instances
the old remedy of " an ounce of cold lead "
had been exhibited in the case of landlords

suffering from too great love of their rents.
This was the article which, even in the
midst of my grief, compelled from me a
smile as I journeyed past the wearisome
line of '' Ladies' Bathing Places " and " Gentlemen's
Bathing Places," which constitute
the landscape on one side of the railway
from Kingstown to Dublin : —

Irish Sport.
from our Special Sporting Correspondent.)

'although it must be confessed that
Jupiter Plutus has of late honoured our
fair isle with a special amount of attention —
until the banks are wet and unpleasant to
hide behind, and the evenings almost too
moist for waiting out in the dusk — still
there has been some decidedly fair sport in
this part of the country, and experienced
sportsmen have brought some very fair
game to bag.

Landlords are certainly wild and strong
on their cars, and the curse of this noble

sport — absenteeism — is again showing itself ;
while agents — which game is very plentiful
and quite free from the disease, being of an
entirely different species (as I shall point
out in my forthcoming great work, "Landlord
Hunting in the Green Isle") — are
savage, and, in some few instances, when
brought to bay, have injured inexperienced
hunters. It may be as well, while on the
subject, to mention, for the benefit of your
young readers, a few of the rudimentary
rules of this noble sport.

Imprimis, meeting a landlord in the open
is simple foolhardiness. There are certain
rules, handed down from generation to
generation of sportsmen, and I cannot too
strongly insist that any infraction of them will
lead to unnecessary danger. First, ascertaining
the habits of your quarry — where he collects
rents, where he stops to lunch, and soon
— you must build up an obstruction in his
track, so as to bring him to a full stop and
give you the necessary time for careful aiming.

You yourself, hidden by the growth
on the top of a bank, should be entirely
unseen, and should, moreover, previously
select a nice rest for the muzzle of your
gun. Aim at the face — it is the landlord's
most vulnerable part, for every Irish schoolboy
knows that he has no heart — and load
with a few old nails and such things among
the swan-shot. Landlords, when brought
to bay, being very savage, you should never
attack one with less than half a dozen
assistants to finish off the game, if only
wounded sufficiently to make a resistance.
Battering on the head with the butt of a
gun or a thick stick is the best way of doing
this.

There is no necessity for galloping.

Now a few words as to a dispute that has
of late arisen between several of our leading
sportsmen as to the perfectibility of
*' firing into the brown," if you happen to
come upon several of the brutes together.

I have taken some pains to collect value

I. o

able opinion on this subject, and have come
to the conclusion that, in the judgment of
the majority of those who have a right to
speak, the practice is condemned as 
and unworthy of an Irish
hunter.

On the other hand, laying rent in a field
and watching it at night is quite permissible,
while the silly old prejudice that forbade
shooting a landlord sitting and insisting on
your waiting till he ran, has quite died
away.

In conclusion, let me tell young Ireland
that it can in no better ways pass its leisure
time than in this noble sport. Exaggerated
ideas of its danger having been spread by
timorous spirits, or b}^ those unpatriotic men
who think it sufficient for a thing to be
Irish to decry it, I will assert, without fear
of contradiction, that, if proper precautions
be only taken, it requires about as much
courage, and involves as much personal risk,
as pigeon-shooting or rat-hunting. In

answer to a correspondent, who asks what
he is to do about a tame — or popular —
landlord in his part of the country, I should
be inclined to say — shoot him at once.
They are treacherous animals when tamed,
and at the rutting — or renting — season have
been known to attack the kindest of
tenants.

One more hint, and 1 have done. Never
shoot an agent when a landlord is to be
had, even though the latter may only appear
at long intervals. You might as well stalk
a caribou when a moose is in the neighbourhood."


I pass over the few weeks during which I
stayed at Bally honor. My mother was
terribly cut up, and refused to be comforted.
It appeared that Arthur had managed to
lose his heart to a girl in the neighbourhood,
daughter of a squire of high degree
but low purse, and was continually cantering
over the seven miles that separated his

o2

place from Ballyconor. It was coming home
from courting that he met with his accident.
Taking a short cut by the fields in the
dusk, he galloped into an open drain, his
horse turned head over heels, and my poor
brother was picked up by a shepherd some
hours after, cold and dead, with his neck
broken.

And to my mother the worst part of the
whole affair was that on that very day
she had had hard words with her son —
the first quarrel that had ever occurred
between them. The particulars came to me
from Jim Leary. Arthur declared his unalterable
affection for Made Macfinegan ;
Lady O'Connor — to his intense astonishment,
which he confided to the agent — lost
her temper, vowed that nothing should ever
persuade her to give her consent, reproached
him with ingratitude, with deceit in trying
to make her — his mother — believe that he
never cast a thought to women, and ended
by declaring that she would leave his home

unless he, within twenty-four hours, gave
up his mad — his 'fatal" passion.

And why your poor dear lady mother
should have called it fatal, bead I don't
understand. But she'd made up her mind
that Arthur was a — what do you call it? —
an anchorite, and didn't care more for the
dance of a girl's eye than you, you young
scamp, cared for the learning I tried so hard
to drum into your curly head," said Jim
Leary, as we sat together one night in that
poky little chamber called the 'smoking
and he took an extra glass of toddy
in honour of the sad occasion.

Then Arthur, for the first time in his
gentle, quiet life, in a passion, called for
North, his bay mare, and dashed over to
Castle Macfinegan, with a resolute look on
his sweet face — and never came home
alive.

What did it matter to me, or to anyone,
that Made married in five months' time a
huckeen not fit to clean my brother's buckskins?

She had, perhaps, made Arthur
happy, as she seemed to him idealised by his
pure imagination ; and I was grateful even
for that, and could not share, or scarcely
understand, the vindictive hatred towards
the girl which Lady O'Connor displayed
afterwards.

But then it must be remembered that I
was young and imaginative, and that I also
had an ideal — a soft woman, with sentimental
eyes, whose image had crossed the
Channel with me, and came between me
and all the duties which I — as become head
of the house — had to undertake — came
even between me and my grief for Arthur.

I wrote to her, directing the letter to
Hertford Street "to be forwarded ;" and intime
I received her answer, dated from a
small water-drinking place in Germany.

You are," she wrote, "just the — shall I
say man or boy? — well, man, if you like —
just the man to be devotedly attached to-your
elder brother ; for you have no envy

in your disposition. But don't be too unhappy.
Of all our misfortunes, Death is
the least ; at any rate, it is the last, and has
the great merit of preventing any more.
Don't let them persuade you that because
you have inherited you must change your life.
Of course you will hear a great deal of your
duty as a magistrate and a landlord ; but
remember the best landlord and magistrate
is always the man who has seen most of the
world. Look upon your life in London
as a preparation for the other, and do not
believe those who will tell you you must
choose between the two.

'* Success in life means keeping out of
grooves ; and a country groove is a very
narrow one. We are coming to town for
the winter, and I hope to see much more of
you than in the Season, when it is so hard
to see anything really of one's friends."

After the receipt of this letter, which
went on to tell me little bits of news which
would not amuse the reader of this history,

and which indeed I only appreciated because
of the hand that penned there, I became
restless, and soon broached the idea of
returning to my duty. Armed as I was with
a letter from Marx saying that, although my
brother officers were content to do my duty
as long as it was necessary for me to stay
away, still it would be as well if I could
make a limit to my absence, my mother
could scarcely oppose me very strongly.

You are your own master, Mervin, or,
at least, you very soon will be ; and you
have not cared for my wishes so much of
late that I can expect you to give up anything
for my sake."

'' My dear mother, T would gladly give
up everything in reason, did you ask me.
But I do not see why I should abandon my
career "

Guarding St. James's Palace," put in
ray mother, with a touch of her old
scorn.

*' Well, guarding St. James's Palace, if
you like, although I think the Guards have
done other work. I am too young to
settle down here. I have made friends in
London "

Again she interrupted me with flashing
eyes.

Friends ! Yes, Bayley North, a man
who "

Then she paused.

"Who what? Tell me a reason why I
should reject his friendship ; one reason !"

She rose coldly.

I suppose it is Fate," she said, in a
dreary sort of voice, which gave me pain to
hear ; " and against Destiny I can fight no
better than another. But — oh, my God — I
thought to have saved him — my boy — my
darling boy — my Arthur !"

And she burst into a passion of tears.

Oh, mother," I said, bending over her
and holding her graceful form in my arms ;

'smother, why will you not let me love
you ? — let me in some sort take his place
and "

^' Take his place ! You !"

Scorn, I think, hurts almost as much unmerited
as merited. I said no more, and
when I went back to London, my natural
high spirits fighting with the sadness of late
events, I felt as if that mysterious chasm
between my mother and myself had been
widened rather than bridged over by them.

But before I left Ballyconor a thing
occurred which I must mention here.

My mother came to my room one evening
with two letters addressed to herself,
and with the seals unbroken, in her
hand.

'' Be good enough, Mervin," she said, in
her coldest and most dignified manner, "to
give these two letters to your friend, and
tell him that any more from the same
quarter will be burned unread, as these are
unread."

And as I put them into my pocket I saw
that the handwriting on the envelope was
that of Bayley North.

CHAPTER XII.

A DIGRESSION AND A LECTURE.

T HAD not been long in London before I
-*- discovered the difference between Mervin
O'Connor, the poor second son with
doubtful prospects and a suspected tendency
towards flirting with girls destined for his
betters, and Sir Mervin, owner of a castle
and possible millionaire. It is true the
Castle was only in Ireland, where castles grow
somewhat in the shape of those in Spain, but
still a castle in Ireland was in mothers' eyes
better than none at all, and there was one
advantage of even a poor heritage in the
Green Isle — namely, that few Londoners

saw it, and that thus a pleasant halo of exaggeration
could be safely thrown over its
size and grandeur. Of course, my mourning
at first prevented my accepting the
invitations that came in quickly enough now,
but towards the end of the winter I thought
it permissible to emerge from my retirement
and enjoy some of the festivities of
the little season, which is far preferable to
the big one in summer. I had invested in
three horses, which I kept at Leighton
Buzzard, and about twice a week I did my
best to show the hard riders of that grassy
country that a training over banks and
stone walls did not disqualify me from
negotiating timber or water with the best of
them.

What splendid moments those were — the
recollection of them now makes my heart
beat, and my cheek glow — when some
four couple of hounds — enough for all
practical purpose for us jealous ones — have
got well out of covert, not three hundred

yards behind that cunning old dog-fox, out
for a lark, and some six miles from his
home, to which he means to take us as hard
as his legs can carry him, up ivied. A tearing
scent, big sowed grass fields, about a
dozen determined men mounted on the best
horses money can procure, in tip-top condition,
racing from fence to fence ; less ambitious
spirits riding honestly the line, and
never seeing a hound from find to finish; still
more cautious horsemen making points, and
with but little fencing seeing a good deal of
the fun, and some of them, grizzled Nim-rods
of many winters' experience, knowing
better what the hounds had done than
we who were riding by the side of the
pack.

How they race ! Hold up, horse ! Two
of those go to a fall, and I can't afford to
fall unless Bob Scampered falls too. What
a nice mare that is of his ! I'll buy herat
any price. Easy over that plough !
Down ! Never mind ; I kept hold of the

reins, and am on again in an instant ; rewarded
two fields after by seeing my rival
and brother subaltern Bob measure his
length on the sward, while his mare trots off
in the silly lost fashion of a riderless horse.
What's that? A halloa, close by. Look
there ! Yes — it is the fox going up that
big field on the hill! Forward ! forward ! we
involuntarily yell out, quite ignoring the
fact that if the hounds went any faster we
should be left hopelessly behind. My good
horse begins to jump short, and quite ignores
the spurs, a touch of which in the
morning would have driven the somewhat
obstreperous animal mad.

Another man down ! The select company
with the hounds is becoming " small
by degrees and beautifully less." Yet another
cropper ; and this time the horse —
the first whip's— refuses to rise, and poor
Tom is left ruefully sitting on the rail, the
top bar of which he has broken, gazing at
the fast-receding pack. Oh! that I may

last to the end ! I pray, as I nurse my
horse carefully over a spongy, badly drained
field, and, with a prudence I should have
scorned ten minutes ago, turn out of my
way towards a welcome gate.

He's just afore you !" shouts the civil
farmer who opens it. But just before us,
too, is the covert where his home lies awaiting
him, the earth too probably gaping
wide. Forward ! Forward ! The hounds
stop short, then turn and race almost mute
down a hedge at right angles to the line.
He is running short — nothing but a miracle
can save him.

Leave them alone, oh, huntsman ! In
the name of heaven, leave them alone !"
No need to say this. The huntsman says
never a word ; his horn reposes in its case ;
he knows when and where not to interfere
that knowledge so difficult to attain. Up
another hedgerow, another momentary
check, then a burst in view half across a
big grass-field, on the other side of which

you can see the gorse covert, then —
Worry ! worry ! Who-op !"

"As good a gallop as I ever saw," says a
noble lord, jumping off his horse. " Straight
as an arrow and fast as an express train.
Squandered the field a bit, too. Only seven
of us altogether." And I was one of that
seven ! Yes, they were glorious moments,
scarcely to be equalled by any mere intellectual
after-enjoyments ; those wild gallops
across country !

My reader must pardon me if my revived
enthusiasm has a little carried me away.

Now and then during that winter I heard
of the Mony musks. Dear old Marx met
them at Florence, when he was spending a
month of his leave, and wrote several poems
to her ladyship — one "On her dropping her
catalogue in the Pitt Gallery," and another

On seeing Lady M in front of the

Venus de' Medici," being especially ingenious.


'' She asked after you," he said.

VOL. I. P

When are they coming home?" I asked,
trying to look indifferent.

Oh ! she didn't know. I fancy Lord
Monymusk was ill — at least he didn't appear
while I was there. By the way, North
was there too. I met him two or three
times with her. Seemed very attentive.
But he's a great deal too old, of course."

Soon after this I received a letter from
Bayley North, dated Rome, which I may as
well transcribe here : —

Here am T, ray dear Mervin, in this
city of very old antiquities and very new
society; the paradise of American shoddy
kings and hangers-on to the fringe of
London society ; the elysium of young
Irish ladies whose ideas of dissipation had,
before coming here, been an annual ball in
Patrick's Hall, or a dance at the county
town barracks. The American beauties
amuse me ; they are so very proud, so very
.clever, so very beautiful, and so very uninteresting,

except as studies of incarnate
vulgarity — as specimens of what imitative
power combined with absolute effrontery
and well-cut features will do. 1 declare,
when going through a gallery with one of
them, I always expected her to turn on mein
that quick manner of theirs, and demand
scornfully how many dollars one of Titian's
beauties possessed in her lifetime, or whether
that old gentleman in scanty clothing, depicted
by Domenichino, was in the dry
goods line.

They are the women of the future, you
know, and as such we must accept them, as
I suppose we must accept Wagner's tuneless
music, and a certain painter's unintelligible
'harmonies.' But when they have prevailed
and spread over the earth, I trust
there will be preserved to us by a kind
Providence some savage land where deluded
old Tories may find a woman or two of
flesh and blood, of affections, sympathies,
weaknesses, shyness, with complexions and

p2

sound teeth, and with complete ignorance
of everything except love, dancing, and
perhaps novels. The American women are
very splendid, so are the American sewing-machines;
the American women are very
beautiful, but their beauty is like that of a
marble ' block ' in New York city. Give
me a tumble-down old English farmhouse,
covered with ivy, full of architectural faults,
instead.

'the next time I travel I shall previously
purchase a title — Count or Baron would do.
Success with the fair sex here is not to be had
without. I was tremendously snubbed yesterday
by Mrs. O'Slathery (of Castle Slavery,
in Galvva}^) in favour of Count Something,
whom I remember distinctly as a waiter at
an hotel in Folkestone ; but I daresay the
tips there enabled him to buy a Countermand
he Avers his order — Legion of Honour,
I think — with infinite grace and distinction.
A real Italian Marquis, with a pedigree as
long as one of Canon L 's sermons, was

snubbed by Mrs. O'S. at the same time as
your humble servant, which was hard upon
the poor man, as he had just offered to the
wealthy Hibernian widow his palazzo, and
-all that it contained, at a very moderate
price, considering the antiquity of his family.

"the oidear !' she said to me afterwards.
^ Imagine the Marquis offering to
sell his own palace ! Fancy an O'Slathery
selling the sate of his ancestors !' I have
since ascertained that the O'Slathery property
is in the hands of creditors, the late
chieftain having spent his patrimony on
whisky and cards at the nearest public, and
that the Castle is a square, twelve roomed
house, built about forty years ago, and
splendidly whitewashed.

I am writing to you merely to fill up
the time between dinner, at the horrible
hour of six, and a Roman party to which I
am bidden, and where I shall stand among
a crowd of Roman nobles with Roman
noses, knock-knees, and sallow faces, and

glare uncomfortably across the room at a
row of haughty Roman dames, seated in
straight lines, and about as inviting as a
range of extinct volcanoes. Never mind !
After that comes a little party to see the
Coliseum by moonlight — the Darbeytons,
Scroobys, Lady Monymusk, and some others
which, with its supper afterwards, will
make up for the patrician coldness of my
Roman party.

Gertrude Monymusk is looking uncommonly
well ; perhaps her having left his
Lordship at Florence may account for her
high spirits. She tells me that he has accepted
a berth on board Addely's yacht,
now at Naples, and means to cruise until
the late spring. She herself intends to go
back to London soon, and I shouldn't be
surprised if I volunteered as escort, having
outlived the age when scandal is possible.
She tells me that you are quite the nicest of
the new boys in London. Gave a vous,
mon ami! But it is no use warning you, as

I remember. If you are passing my diggings,
just tell the old woman to have things
ready, fires going, &c., as I may turn up at
any moment. Now don't go and catch cold,
watching and waiting in Hertford Street !

** By-the-by, I have never written to you
since sou became Sir Mervin. Whether
you are to be congratulated or not I scarcely
know. Credit with mothers and tradesmen
is a grand thing, for a time. But eldest
sons or proprietors have to pay some day 1
Whereas your poor devil who gets his
credit in Society and in shops by stealth, as
it were, can put off the evil day almost indefinitely.
Write and tell me the news — •
post-office here, as I shall stay for certain
another fortnight.

Ever yours,

Bayley North."

I didn't exactly " watch and wait " in
Hertford Street after the reception of this
letter; but I certainly passed that way

oftener than was absolutely necessary, and
was rewarded, early in the month of April,
by seeing the blinds drawn up, the chimneys
smoking, and other unmistakable signs of
the speedy coming home of ^'the family."

A couple of days after appeared the (tome)
magic announcement in the Morning
Post :—

*' Lady Monymusk has arrived at her
residence in town. His Lordship remains
abroad, where he is yachting with the Earl
of Addely."

Not many hours had elapsed before I
was knocking with a trembling hand at her
door.

'' It is so nice of you to come so soon to
welcome me back," she said, with her pleasant
smile, after a few of the common-places
of greeting.

I couldn't help coming directly I saw
you had arrived," I stammered, furious with
myself for blushing.

'' And why should you help it ? I am

sure one doesn't find so many friends in this
world that one can afford to lose those one
has made."

You will allow me to be your friend,
then ?"

Yes. You're too young. Never mind
you will grow out of that. You shall be
my friend, and you shall come and tell me
all your little grievances and cares, and confide
in me all about sour loves. Who is she
now ?"'

^'She?''

** Yes. You don't expect mo to believe
you are in love with nobody at your age ?"

'^ You mean a girl ?"

'what else could I mean, sir? I am
afraid you have grown very wicked. What
else could I mean ?"

"I hate girls. They are all so stupid,
and care about nothing but dancing and
jabbering nonsense about how many balls
they have been to or are going to, and how
awfully jolly their week in Yorkshire was,

or how awfully dull their week in Norfolk
Alas, or how awfully unkind mamma is, or
how awfully "

Stop ! stop ! You mustn't be so cynical.
Do you really mean to ask me to believe
you are heart-whole, Sir Mervin ?"

No ; and I wish you wouldn't call me
Sir Mervin."

*' Well, Mervin. I scarcely like to encourage
such things, but confession will dono
harm, at any rate. Who is the unhappy
husband whose domestic peace you are
troubling ?"

Her gaiety hurt me.

''No husband's," I said, rather gruffly.
'the woman I love knows nothing of it,
and — and I shall never dare to tell her."

So much the better," she said, screening
the fire from her face with a fan she took
up; "it is a thing that should never be
told."

And yet it is so strong that "

*the stronger it is the more reason for
keeping it secret. Don't be carried away
by all the silly cynical talk you hear, my
dear boy. A woman's name — her honouris
her dearest possession. If a man loves
a woman who cannot — may not — return his
love, there is every reason why he should
be silent. If he loves her truly, he cannot
wish to pain her, surely?"

"Oh, no!"

"Well, what can his speaking do but give
her pain? If she return the feeling — and,
despite herself, she may — what does bespeaking
mean ? That she must either, for
his sake, become in her own eyes a degraded
woman, that she must for him sacrifice
her self-respect, or that she must do violence
to her feelings, act a lie to the man she
secretly loves, and thrust him from her side,
and for the rest of her life be tormented
with the horrible feeling that she has been
cruel to him whom she would give almost

anything — short of her honour — to shield
from a pang. No, Mervin ; a man's love of
this kind may be ever so strong, let him
bear it like a man, and, for the sake of her
he loves, let him remain silent."

"And if he cannot?"

"Then let him go. That is one of a
man's privileges — he can go when he likes.
We women are often tied down, bound
hand and foot, to the stake of temptation."


"This is not the view taken by "

By most men and women of the world
now. No. But, thank Heaven, the philosophy
of men like Bayley North, the code

of morals of women like Lady , is not

so powerful as cheap cynics and immoral
novelists suppose."

She alluded to a lady, beautiful exceedingly
and a marvel of artistic dress, whose
husband — long ago ruined by play — mysteriously
supplied her with every possible
luxury, including stepping horses, a yacht,

and a perfect house in Mayfair, on an income
of a few hundreds a-year.

Lady Monymusk had risen when she
spoke the last words, and stood opposite
nie, with a bright light in her eyes and a
colour on her cheeks that made her look
more supremely beautiful than anything I
ever imagined. I rose, and, as I did so, she
put one of her hands in mine.

You must go now, Mervin, for I have
to dress for dinner. Come and see me
whenever you please, and always remember
that I am your true friend, who is privileged
to give you advice. And you'll take

it''

I will try to," I said, and I stooped
down and kissed the white hand that lay in
mine.

Thank you," she said, simply, and with
something like tears in her eyes. '' Whatever
the pain now, it is nothing to what
giving way to your impulse would — must —
bring. Good-bye."

Her lips just touched my forehead, and I
went from her sweet presence in a dream
of love that was as pure as that of an innocent
girl.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE CURSE BEGINS TO WORK.

"Ties. As pure as that of an innocent
-*- girl. For the moment all the grosser
part of my affection for Gertrude Mony-musk
was beaten down ; only that feeling
remained which may be instinct, or maybe
the product of the sweetness and light
following in the steps of civilization, but
which, after all, is a noble feeling, and one
of the certain things that divide us human
beings from the lower creation.

I love ; therefore I am. I love purely,
carnally, unselfishly, therefore I am a
man. Not the imperfect thing in which the

intended finish has been self — or Society —
neglected, and which unites in itself the
brutal instincts of the brute with the vicious
cunning of the human creature ; but a man
with a mind, a soul, a heart — an incarnation
of generous impulses guided by cultivated
idea.

And the belief in Gertrude which was
then in me produced a belief in other goodness,
a softness and reasonable credulity
that was salutary to my moral nature. She
was — to me — so pure that I let her personate
the whole world of women, and a coarse
remark or brutal story which at other times
would have made me laugh just then made
me shiver.

Cynicism is a fine thing in its way doubtless,
but it shrivels up to nothing at the first
approach of feeling.

And there were things concerning my
goddess herself which I had to hear, and
which it required all my self-control to hear
without an outbreak. Society persisted this

season in connecting her name with that of
Bayley North. Of course, I well knew that
there was, that there could be, no reason
for the wagging of these slanderous tongues ;
but I could not conceal even from myself
that he was continually at her side in public,
and that I scarcely ever now dropped
in at Hertford Street without finding him
seated in the most comfortable chair in that
pretty room of hers, with a lazy air of at-homeless
which irritated me almost as
much as it seemed to confirm the prevalent
rumours.

Lord Monymusk's cruise had been prolonged
far into the summer, a fact that
would otherwise have afforded me intense
satisfaction. Now I scarcely saw more of
her than I had the season before. I sometimes
tried to sit North out, and, although
I always failed, I came away secretly comforted.
Assuredly there was scarcely friendship,
not to speak of any warmer feeling,
between the two. In response to his

VOL. I. Q

amusing cynicism and good stories of their
neighbours, he received but the coldest of
monosyllables, except now and then, when
her face flushed and she protested hotly
against some hard, cruel saying of his.

This appeared to amuse him, and he
goaded her sometimes to the pitch of fury,
sitting there watching her exquisite face
with a smile in his I almost hated him for.

Could she be in his power ? And how ?
Were there dark secrets in her past ? What
was the secret of this man's success with
-Women ? Even over my mother, who evidently
detested him, he had a strange influence,
to which she had been obliged to
succumb. What could it be ?

Notwithstanding all this, I myself failed
to shake off the fascination he possessed forme,
which, when he chose it should, reasserted
itself with all its earlier force.

The reason of this was partly that the
man was, I believe, real only with me.
With me he often put aside his cynical

worldliness, as on the occasion of our going
to church together, and showed me that
beneath it all there was a heart.

But with Gertrude Monymusk he was
always the same — cold, and witty, and cruel
in his estimate of human nature, in his
laughter at the folly and wickedness around
him.

What the relation between them was
puzzled me. It would have puzzled a wiser
head. But " the world," which has not
time to draw delicate distinctions, settled at
once what it was ; and, ere the yacht sailed
up the Solent with her lord and master onboard,
Lady Monymusk had gone a long
way towards being classed amongst those
members of "Society" who are only so
because, as yet, the person whose sole right
it is so to do has not protested against their
shocking goings-on.

The night before the day on which Lord
Monymusk returned to town, after having
telegraphed to his wife to announce his safe

q2

arrival at Southampton, 1 happened to be
making a short cut down the Albany,
thereby transgressing the rule of that retired
and dignified Elysium of wealthy
bachelors. It was dark, and as I sauntered
along I was thinking rather bitterly of the
gay young man's party at Limmer's which I
had just left, and wondering why the spirits
that a year ago would have made me the
gayest among them had so strangely
deserted me ; why some shadow of impending
evil seemed to hang continually over
ray life, and to cloud what should have been-its
brightest and most careless moments.
As I passed the entrance to North's rooms,
I glanced up and saw a light in the little
passage window, and hesitated for a moment
whether I would go in and have a cigar and
a chat with him or proceed to my Club and
take a hand at whist, or to Park Lane and
get rid of my tobacco-smelling coat ere going
into " Society." At that moment the door
opened, and a female form emerged, hastily

brushing past me and going swiftly down
the Arcade towards the Piccadilly entrance.
My heart stood still. I could have sworn
to that lithe figure under almost any disguise.
I could not mistake that graceful
walk or the inimitable carriage of the little
head. It was Gertrude Monymusk ! I
looked round to make sure. Yes, it was
the door that led to North's chamber ; and,
as I looked, there came to that door a man
Bayley North himself.

He started as he saw me, for I suppose I
was under a lamp, and that my face wa
easily recognisable ; and then, in his usual
lazy manner, said —

*' Hallo, Mervin ! Coming to have a
smoke, eh? Come in! I was so tired of
my own society that I was actually going
down to hear those idiots at the Eccentric
Club talk; but now you're here we'll be
comfortable chez moV^

I was far too much agitated to dissimulate.
I could only say, in a hoarse voice,

You were not alone ? She !" and

here I stopped, unable to articulate.

She !" he echoed, with apparent surprise.
" Oh ! that lady who preceded me
downstairs just now. A pretty figure, I
noticed. Old Ladybank, up on the second
floor, has good taste. But it is shocking at
his age. Come in !"

'' No, thanks. I — it— I have to go out
to-night." And I escaped his outstretched
arras and fled down the passage.

Black's Club came in my way, and I
entered, proposing, I believe — but I scarcely
know what I proposed — to drink something
to steady my nerves. The first person I
met was old Lord Ladybank, an ancient
lady-killer and as great a bore as was to be
found in all London.

He stopped to tell me of some new young
lady who was to take the town by storm in
the Opera ballet that season, and to explain
how he had already made the acquaintance
of an aunt, and how thus he hoped soon to

gain that of her mother, and so by stages to
arrive at the divinity herself (who was about
seventeen, while Ladybank was not an hour
under sixty-four), and at last I got a moment
to ask him, as carelessly as possible,

'^ You live above North, in the Albany, I
believe? Who else lives there, by the
by ?"

"No one now. Are you looking: for
rooms? The other two sets have been
vacant this six months. Just the place for
you, my boy. Come and breakfast with me
and see them."

I declined as politely as might be, and
escaped him. This, then, was the end of
my faith and love ; this was the reason of
that advice she gave me, simply to keep me
away and prevent my coming between her
and this man. And to him — it made me
shiver with rage to think of it — I had, time
after time, recounted the history of my love
and its purity, and her goodness and innocence,
and the rest of it. All a lie ! She

was not pure ; she was not innocent ! Then
who was? If those eyes could lie, whereon
the earth could true eyes be found ? If
her faith were false, was there honesty aboveground?
But I would not condemn her
yet. There might be some reason — some
excuse; and North might have thought it
necessary to lie in case of misconception, or
have done so to minister to his own vanity
and make me suspect.

I called in Hertford Street half-an-hour
before lunch-time next day. There were
some people there, but at last I managed to
get a word with Tier unheard by them.

Do you ever go to the Albany ?"

'the Albany?"

She did not act it well ; her colour went,
and I saw her start violently.

Yes' I said, in a hoarse whisper, with
despair in my eyes; 'eat night. — to visit Bayley
North ?"

Sir Mervin !"

She rose haughtily, and moved across the

room to where the others were seated, discussing
the chances of a grand fancy-ball
given by my regiment that night.

But she did not act it well, I say. I saw
her clutch at the back of a chair as shCitold
Lady Scarribel what her dress was to be ;
and 1 caught a look — a look that I could
not guess at the meaning of — horror, remorse,
shame, reproach, affection almost —
that she cast at me as she turned to follow
the others to luncheon downstairs.

I was close behind her.

'' Good-bye," I said in her ear.

'' Will you not come in to luncheon?"

'* Oh, no," said little Mrs. Ashley ; " he's
on the ball committee, and must go back to
his duties. If the floor isn't good, Sir Mervin,
I'll never dance with you again."

"Oh! and do tell me," cried the irrepressible
Lady Scarribel, " what is the Duchess
of Saint Lazar going to wear ?"

And is it true that your Colonel is going
to whiten his nose to disguise himself''

"And what time is the Prince coming?"

Amid a fire of such questions I escaped.

There was only one thing to do now.
And I did it. Anything was better than
the least doubt. With a good deal of
trouble I discovered Bayley North, reading
a French novel in the library of a Club to
which we both belonged.

Disregarding the large board hung up
opposite me, with "Silence" thereon inscribed,
I plunged at once into my subject.

I know that Lady Monymusk was at
your chambers last night. Can you deny
it?"

He carefully turned down a page of his
book, and put it down on the sofa.

Are you acting for Lord Monymusk ?"

''No."

"Then since when has Society appointed
you guardian of its morals — or social inquisitor
?"

Colonel North," I replied, scarcely
knowing what to say, but determined to

learn the truth before either of us left that
room, *' you have pretended — or felt — some
liking for me. You have been kind to me,
and I am grateful. Do one thing for me
now. Tell me the truth. I am tortured
beyond bearing by even the shadow of a
doubt. Tell me the truth. She was
there ?".

Do you wish me to confide in you, and
do you promise to respect my confidence ?'^

ado."

"Then, my dear unsophisticated Mervin,
of course she was. It was unlucky, your
running up against her in that way. If you
only had showed proper feeling you would
have avoided looking at a lady in her position.
But don't take it to heart so. What
did you take her for ?"

You know what I took her for. I have
told you a thousand times. I took her fora
pure woman. God help me !"

God help you indeed, my poor Mervin
if you are to break your heart over every

married woman here who prefers some one
else to yourself."

I shook his hand off my shoulder, and
started up, causing two old gentlemen
slumbering in their chairs at the other end
of the room to look up and glance reproachfully
at the board on the wall.

It is not that. It is that she — whom I

believed to be an angel — could " And

I leant my head upon the mantelpiece in
speechless agony.

Get to your tub, Diogenes, and give up
the useless search with the lantern. Stick
to fox-hunting, and don't engage in a sport
which is only a succession of blank days —
that after an honest woman."

'' And you," I said, after a pause, looking
at his sarcastic, calm face ; '^ and you — do
you not call yourself his friend ?"

Certainly. And I could show it in no
better way than keeping his wife in a good
humour, and leaving him time for his scientific
pursuits at home. To a man of science,

as poor Mony appears to be, nothing is so
fatal as having to be attentive to a wife. I
shall probably have done much towards the
eventual discovery of perpetual motion, or
assisted in the squaring of the circle. Don't
be a fool, Mervin. You happen to have
discovered a thing that has saved you from
a good deal of pain, perhaps. Be warned
in time. Never believe in a woman, and — ■
pardon me if I presume on my greater experience
— remember that men of the world
do not, as a rule, ask or answer such questions
as that you just put to me, nor interfere
with each other's petits jeux innocents.
You don't mean to put yourself in the
husband's place and quarrel with me,
surely ?"

His mocking disconcerted me, and I remained
silent.

Instead of that, put yourself in my
place. Supposing that, instead of that
pretty little lecture she favoured you with
that day you tried to make love to her, as

you own you did — I say, supposing that she
had responded, and once offered to come
to that charming little house in Park Lane,
would you have said, ' No, Madam. I am
too fond of Lord Monymusk to permit of
it ?' Bah ! You know you would not.
There is a vast amount of truth in that
fable about the dog in the manger. ' If
she is pure as far as I am concerned, she
shall be pure as far as all other men are
concerned.' Eh ? Isn't that what you said
to yourself — what your belief in her meant?
You cannot be so vain as to suppose that a
woman must be unapproachable because
you cannot touch her heart ? Be a sensible
man, Mervin, and remember that, although
youth is a grand thing, experience sometimes
beats it."

I turned fiercely on him, and the necessity
of speaking low, in deference to the
Club rule, rather added, I think, to the
bitterness of my tone.

Experience ! And you boast of such

teaching as this ! You are proud of knowing,
after your forty years of life, how todo
harm most successfully ; you congratulate
yourself on being able to tell lies to a
woman — to be as false as hell to a friend !
Look here, Colonel North, broken-hearted
as I stand before you, while you sit and
sneer at the woman whose name you have
dishonoured in the eyes of the one man,
perhaps, who revered her as she 7n?(st wish
to be revered — who believed in the beauty
of her womanhood — I would not change
places with you! I would not, even for
what you have gained, for your so-called
success, be like you — a blackguard !"

He started up with a muttered oath, then
quickly re-seated himself, and laughed.

It is the privilege of youth to be angry,
but it is silly and womanish to call ugly
names. I am not going to fight a duel
about a — — "

Stop !" I cried, this time forgetting all
about the rules, and receiving a glance from

an old gentleman that spoke volumes of
complaint to be addressed to the Committee.
If you say a word of that sort in connection
with her, I'll kill you !"

I was young and strong, and could very
easily have carried out my threat. Thirty
years of hard living had not improved
North's strength, although they had not
impaired the grace of his slim figure.

He laughed again, but a little uneasily.

Really we mustn't come to blows here,
or we shall be turned out of the Club. I
think perhaps we had better not meet till
you have got into a more sensible frame of
mind. When you are in love with some
new ' pure woman,' you can come and
apologise to me, and thank me, too, for
having given you your freedom, so that you
could enjoy a new adventure."

His last words I scarcely heard as I left
the room, sick at heart, and remembering
my uncle James's mysterious legends and
prophecy that from the love of women

should come every misfortune to our race.
Not much consolation did I receive from
old Gilbeau, to whom that night I confided
ray sorrows, under strict seal of secrecy.
He scarcely could conceal his joy at the
ending of what he persisted in calling '* my
liaison'' Thus in despair of sympathy I at
last sallied forth, and walked all night
through the gloomy London streets, envying
all I met, even the poor draggled painted
outcast to whom I gave a shilling, that
she might forget a little of her woe, and
purchase some forgetfulness of shame and
horror, in the friendly glass of gin.

VOL. I. B

CHAPTER XIV.

A DERBY.

T WILL pass over the misery of the next
J- few days. My resolution to see Gertrude
Monymusk no more was firmly taken ;
but the longing for a final interview, the
struggle to keep myself from Hertford
Street, and to abstain from going to parties
where she was likely to be, was very
severe.

The shock I had received in discovering
her falsehood — not to me, but to her husband
— in finding that my idol was only clay
after all, changed my nature. I became
moody and peevish. I drank more than

was good for me ; not, indeed, intoxicating
myself, but obtaining a kind of fictitious
eagerness which led me sometimes into
quarrels, and sometimes into dissipations
which I blush to think of now. I tried to
be cynical, and probably succeeded only in
being silly; but I believed that my immature
incredulity was very bitter, and I almost, at
times, sneered myself into the belief that I
was 'Splits Fin que tons les autres'' Admitted,
easily enough, behind the scenes at many
theatres, I soon discovered how rapidly
money can be got rid of by other means
than horse-racing and gambling, and, after
a baddish night or two at whist, and other
less skilful games, I was obliged to make
inquiries of my impecunious friends as to
the address of some friendly and convenient
Jew.

The name of the one to whom I was
directed does not matter much. He lived
in a street not far from Piccadilly, and to his
modest residence did I repair one April

R 2

day, a little nervous at this my first experience
of borrowing money.

I found him smug, red-wigged, and ,
with a huge watch-chain,
and an affable, philanthropic manner that
would have worked wonders at a charity
meeting. And his words were as kind as
his appearance — words uttered in that thick,
unctuous tone peculiar to his race. I will
not attempt to re-produce his pronunciation
in the spelling.

God bless my soul ! This is bad. You,
Sir Mervin O'Connor ; so young a man —
only just — let me see" — and here he
referred to a Baronetage which lay on the
table beside him — " only just come into your
title and estate. Come to me, the Jew
money-lender, for money ! Oh ! it is sad
very sad ! I am afraid you gamble."

'' A little."

And bet on horses?"

Yes, sometimes."

He groaned.

Oh, it is sad ! I have seen so many
fine young men ruined. And your income
is "

I mentioned the modest sum. He gave
a start.

'god bless me! and you cannot live
upon that without coming to me ! Don't
you know that to come to people like me is
ruin ?"

"Well, I have heard so," I replied, rather
impatient at all these preliminaries ; 'but I
suppose that is the affair of those who choose
to come. Can you lend me the money at
once ?"

Couldn't you do without ? Just think.
Couldn't you wait while the family solicitor
gets it for you in a legitimate way ?"

"No, I can't," I rejoined, somewhat
crossly, " or else I shouldn't have come to
you."

Ah ! my poor boy," and here he put his
fat, be-ringed hand upon my shoulder,
^' you don't know how easy it is to go downhill,

and the first step down is when you
come to us. How much is your mother's
jointure?"

I informed him.

And you must have this money ?"

'eyes, I must."

Well, I can't bear to see a fine young
man like you go to the dogs — and once you
^0 there they eat you up — without trying to
stop you. What do you say to promising to
give up cards and betting ? I'll leave you
the other amusement, which is about as
expensive, so help me 1"

I stared at him. This was a man I had
always heard of as rapacious and utterly
insensible to feeling !

No, I can't make any promises."

'' Not if I found — mind you, we've na
money, we get it from clients — not if I
found you what you want at a cheap
rate ?"

Not even then."

"Well, well," and he sighed deeply

"Til see what I can do. You know
my brother ?"

"No."

All the better for you. If he had been
here to-day you wouldn't have got off under
sixty per cent., so help me ! He's a very
good man, is my brother, but he is a little
sharp about business matters. It is very
lucky for you you found me instead. Well,
I like the look of you, and should like to
save you from ruin, and from us ; so come
back the day after tomorrow at twelve, and
I may be able to let you have the money,
(though, so help me, it's an enormous sum),
at about ten per cent., and then I shall
lose about three per cent, by the transaction."


'' Oh, I don't want you to lose, Mr. ,"

I said, taking up my hat, and wondering at
the kindness of my Israelite.

Go away, Sir Mervin — go away — and
let me think it over. If you don't come
back, I shall be glad. Remember what

I said — and go to your family solicitor."

But, for several good reasons, I did not
go to my family solicitor, and at the time
named I found myself again in the spider's
web.

His face was overcast, and he shook ray
hand despondently.

'' I am sorry you have come back, Sir
Mervin — very sorry. So you still want the
money ?"

Certainly. I hope you have it
for me."

Yes ; but " here he took a pinch of

snuff and looked as if ready to weep ; ^' but
my brother, a very good man, but rather
sharp about business, Sir Mervin, won't doit
under the usual terms ; and I can't
conscientiously let you borrow at such a
rate — so help me, I can't."

What rate is that ?"

'sixty per cent., — not a penny less.
My brother says he won't part with such an
enormous sum for a penny less. Don't doit,

Sir Mervin, don't do it. It's a robbery
I told my brother it was a robbery — but
he's a hard man on business, is my brother,
and he said, * If the young man don't like
it, he can leave it.' You'd much better
leave it, Sir Mervin. Here it is ; let me
send it back to him."

And as he spoke he displayed from a
drawer a bundle of crisp new Bank of
England notes, and counted them slowly
and thoughtfully.

Already 1 had kept an ecarte rival
waiting for two days, and the sight of the
notes did away with any hesitation the
Jew's good advice might have created.

sall right," I said; 'hand 'em over."

I have deducted the interest from them.
It's my brother's way. He will have it so.
So there's £60 under the sum named on each
hundred ; and here's the bill."

'eat six months ! Why then you should
only have deducted half— only £30. Your
rate is £120 per cent."

Just what I told my brother," said the
Jew, with a despairing wave of his hand ;
'just what I told him, so help me. I said,
It's shameful ! You're charging the young
man 120 per cent.' But my brother only
said again, ' If the young man don't like it,
he '"

"Yes, yes," I interrupted, *' I suppose
you really won't let me have it for less ?"

'Now I like that," said he, putting the
notes and the bill away hurriedly into
the drawer, and locking it — " I like that.
I said to my brother, ' He's an intelligent
gentleman is Sir Mervin, and he
won't submit to be robbed in this way.'
That's right. Don't have anything to do
with it. Go to your family solicitor, and
then live on your income. That's right.
I'm glad you've shown a proper prudence
at last." And he stood up, and held out
his hand to take leave of me.

Oh ! I didn't mean that," I said, remaining
seated. " The fact is, I must have the

money at once ; and if I can't have it
cheaper — well — hand it over."

He sighed, unlocked the drawer, and laid
the bill before me. I did not quite know
Avhat to do with it, but was ashamed to ask
it implying such extreme youth never to
have accepted a bill — and while I was dallying
over it I looked up, and saw that,
although he had risen and stood with his-back
to me, he was observing me in the
looking-glass with sjreat interest.

'write accepted, and then your name —
here — across it. So you've never done one
before? I'm very glad to hear that," he
said, and he did really seem glad. " And I
hope this will be the last. What did you
say your mother's age was ?"

I told him, took up the notes, and was
about to go when he stopped me, in a deprecatory,
shamefaced way.

I am very sorry. Sir Mervin ; but you
see I am junior partner, and my brother is a
hard man about business ; but I am obliged

to give him a message for you. If any of
your brother officers are in want of money,
you can mention that we shall be happy tolet
them have it on their simple note of
hand."

^'At 120 per cent?"

'' Oh ! Sir Mervin," and his eyes really
filled with tears, " there you hurt my feelings.
If you knew the hours I spent entreating
my brother to let me do it for you
at ten ! But my brother, Sir Mervin,
although a good man, is "

I did not wait for the end of the sentence,
but departed, happy for the moment in that
I could pay off a member of my Club, who
had already begun to hint that our ecarte
should be conducted on strict ready-money
principles.

It is sad to think that this stickler for
punctuality of payment afterwards seceded
from Tattersall's under very painful circumstances,
and afterwards had a little difference
within the Ring in Paris, which compelled

his turning his attentions to horseradish
in the distant land of Australia. But this
by the way. "When I lost money to him,
he wore his white hat, and opened his
enormous betting-book in the Ring with
the best of them.

The philanthropical Jew was not wrong
in part of his gloomy prophecies. I was
soon back again in his office, and I became
very shortly a proficient in the art of writing
my name across an oblong piece of stamped
paper. Everything went wrong with me.
To begin with I got "in" with a certain
stable, which had a "dark" prodigy of a
three-year-old for the Derby.

It was to be a coup such as never had
before been made, and we were all to realize
large fortunes, and retire in the plenitude of
wealth and wisdom from the varying life of
the Turf.

Things went well for a time. We
dribbled our money on the horse — Phoebus
by name — so artistically that he scarcely

rose in the quotations. We told no one,
except a chosen cohort of befriends of the
stable ;" and Phoebus did his work in such
a style that the best judges amongst our
number said that the race was over.

I had a share in the animal, and stood to
win a tremendous stake on him by the
time that the longed-for Derby week
arrived.

With what secret contempt did I hear
night after night the speculations of those
miserable ones not in our secret, as to the
winner; with what a glow of prospective
triumph did I not see one cold morning our
champion win his trial in the commonest of
canters ; with what enthusiasm — almost forgetting
Lady Monymusk and my woe — did
not I take my place on a coach full of
brother officers on the great day en route for
Epsom Downs ; with what disdain did I not
languidly view the races before the great
event ; with what a proud feeling of
proprietorship did I not jostle my way

through the crowds hunting the favourites
in the paddock, and at length, finding
Phoebus, listen, with the feeling of an artist
hearing his own picture praised at an exhibition,
to the remarks of the circle of knowing
ones his good looks and superb condition
attracted.

Five, seven, ten points in the betting he
went up ; the latter rising being when —
with such sweeping action as can only be
seen in a horse bred from winners and
shaped as he was — he came past the Stand
in his preliminary canter. Johnny Gunrf,
who was riding hit, was calm and confident.
Now — before less than ten to one was the
price — was the time for my final plunge. I
approached the ring.

Here, Captain — here, Sir Mervin —
that'll you do ? I'll lay again any of them
outsiders !"

'' Phoebus," I remarked, quietly, standing
close by the rails, on the other side of
which an enormous man was shouting himself

hoarse, only stopping every now and
then to give instructions to his attendant
clerk, whose duty was to write down the
bets.

Phoebus — nine to one — nine hundred
to one, I'll lay ! Write it down, Sir
Mervin."

No ; ten," I said, pretending to turn
away, and shutting my betting-book with, a
snap.

'ten; very well. I wouldn't do it
for anyone else. Ten — shall we say
monkeys ?"

'' Thous, if you like."

Ten thou to one — Phoebus." And the
bet was booked.

Trying in vain to appear calm and
indifferent, I mounted to the box where
I had taken care to have a place, so as
to secure an uninterrupted view of the
race.

'hats off!" The bell rings— a knell to
so many a fortune — a bell that has always

seemed to me to have something desperately
melancholy in its sound — and all eyes are
strained towards the starting-place. At first
they run all in a heap, and no one has cause
to be enthusiastic; but soon the pace begins
to tell, and they spread out. What is that
lying third, but well up, and evidently pulling
double ? Phoebus ! Johnny Gun sits
like a statue, and I fancy, even at this
distance, I can distinguish on his features
the smile of certain triumph. He has never
won a Derby, popular jockey though he be
and at last the spell is to be broken.

Yes, they come on like the wind, the
favourite leading ; then the chestnut, and
then our horse. They reach Tattenham
Corner ! The leading horse swerves ; his
jockey raises his whip. 'the favourite's
beat ! The favourite's beat !" is roared from
a couple of hundred throats. The mass of
people sway about with enthusiasm ; conflicting
cries fill the air. I see, confusedly,
three horses apparently locked together. I

VOL. I. S

hear the sound of three whips plying. 1
am deafened by shouts of " The favourite !
Vortex 1 Phoebus ! Phoebus wins !" " By
G — d, he does !" says a voice in my ear —
that of little Dalesman, our plunging subaltern
— " and we're all made men 1" The
cries redouble, the favourite drops behind ;
only two horses struggle on, and there is nota
pin to chose between them. " Phoebus !
Vortex! Vortex! Phoebus!" "Vortex
wins, for a monkey !" shouts a book-maker,
under my box. " Done !" I yell out ; and
as the words leave my lips the two horses,
amid the roar of the multitude, shoot together
past the post.

"No. 13," says a lady in my box. "See,
they've put the number up. No. 13 —
Vortex. 1 forget, Sir Mervin, whether you
are interested in him or in Phoebus. I
think Vortex is the prettiest ; he is such a
nice colour, and has such a pretty head."

CHAPTER XV.

THE FRUITLESS PLUNGE.

"Probably everyone has experienced
-■- the disagreeable sensation of waking,
up the morning after a reverse of fortune.
It may be that your mistress has proved unkind,
that your washerwoman has broken
her plighted troth with regard to your
shirts, that a bill is due, that your best
horse shows symptoms of chronic cough,
that your splendid article has been returned
'with thanks," that your new clothes, tried
on overnight and with which you intended
to astonish the Park that morning, do not
fit — you scarcely know on waking what it is

s2

that infuses so much melancholy into the
usually pleasant time of lazy thought previous
to plunging into that tub ostentatiously and
noisily prepared for you by your servant.
You only know that you are bowed down
by some woe, and, as the mists of sleep are
dispelled, and your eyes gradually open to
their full extent, you gradually become
aware of the exact nature of the misfortune
that has befallen you. I wish Mr. St.
George Mivart, or some one of the same
philosophical tendency, would explain how
it is that after a long period of absolute forgetfulness,
and even while total ignorance of
the evil lingers, the effects of such unknown
evil are as powerful — nay, in some cases still
more powerful — than if they were not forgotten.
For after throwing off this kind of
instinctive despair, and wide awake to
grapple with the facts as they are, you find
that there is nothing so very terrible in
them after all, and that the feeling which so
oppressed you on waking was totally unsuited

to the gravity of the misfortune which
was its cause.

I remember a friend once telling me that
he woke one morning in abject terror, with
a gallows before the eye of his mind, convinced,
in that half-sleepy way, that he had
committed murder overnight ; and it was
not till he had drunk his cup of tea that he
became aware that his crime had really consisted
in giving a black eye to an insolent
cabman.

To my melancholy that morning after the
Derby, however, came no such pleasant
reaction. Add it up in my betting-book
how I chose, there was the same terrible
sum, which I had to obtain by Monday,
staring me in the face. That it must be
obtained was evident — but how ?

I had already borrowed a sura that
appalled me, and, besides, I doubted
whether my philanthropic friend, with the
sixty per cent, brother, would do more
for me just yet. However, to him I repaired,

and ray fears were nearly realised.

It's too much, Sir Mervin. You are
going the pace too fast," he said. "My
brother won't do it without another name
a good name."

This seemed impossible to me — to make
a friend liable for a sum which I scarcely
knew how to pay when due ; and that evening,
when we happened to be left alone in
the Club smoking-room, I told young
Dalesman of my difficulty.

Another name !" he cried. ''' Of course ;
why not ? It's as easy as possible."

/* It doesn't seem so to me."

^' Mineral do. I'm pretty solvent just
now; for I hedged a bit you know, old
chap."

'' But I tell you in three months I don't
expect to be more able to pay such a sum
than now."

What does that matter ? He'll renew,
and if he won't "

Well, if he won't ?"

"Why, we'll go to another Shylock —
that's all."

'^ But in the end?"

*' The end ! Good Heavens, you don't
mean to say you are beginning to think of
the end now?"

The upshot was that Jack Dalesman did
add his autograph to a new bill, and that I
vowed to get it all back, and plenty more,
on a very safe and sure investment for the
Goodwood Stakes. True, no great odds
were to be obtained, but the horse was no
dark one untried in public, like our Derby
candidate ; and even wise old gentlemen,
who were cautious in prophecy, and still
more so in investment, staked their opinion
and their money on him with re assuring
confidence.

Like all young men who are betting high,
money, as far as that commodity is concerned
with the ordinary needs of life, was of no
moment to me now ; and 1 surprised my
brother officers and horrified dear old Gilbeau

by the magnificence of my stud and the still
greater magnificence of my mode of life. A
share in an omnibus-box at both Opera-houses
did not content me (I write of the
time when everyone '' who was anyone "
went to the Opera, and when it was a sure
draw for all your friends on a Saturday
night). I must needs take a box also for

the season at a theatre where But my

reason matters little now. I gave dinners,
both to the world before and to that behind
the footlights, at Richmond and Greenwich.
I tried vainly to shoot pigeons with certainty
at Horsey Wood, backing myself
with bold though misplaced confidence ; I
belonged to every racing club that was
formed, and I laid out money in 
and yearlings, and sent them to a well-known
trainer, regardless of the portentous
bill therefrom which would but too surely
come ; I was put up for half the clubs in
London, and at any of them where play
could be had I vied with the heaviest players

in the stakes I was ready to hazard ; I ran
over to Paris continually from Saturday to
Monday; I took special trains to race-meetings
when the ordinary ones did not
quite suit my fastidious tastes ; I left my
floor in old Gilbeau's Park Lane house, and
took a sweet little house of my own close to
the bottom of St. James's Street, where my
dinner-parties of six and suppers of ten
became much talked of; 1 ordered coats by
the dozen and trousers by the score ; I
thought nothing of idling away an afternoon
in Bond Street and ordering goods to tHe
amount of half my income in that time; I
joined two singularly impecunious youths in
renting a deer forest in Scotland for the
coming season ; and I ordered of Mr. Cats-eye
a hundred-ton schooner, which was to
carry my racing flag triumphantly past many
a flag-boat. In short, I exhausted as far as
I could every means which is put in the
power of a so-called " gilded youth " to get
rid of his gilding; and all because I had

been shown the true side of a woman's
character !

Gilding, put on by 60 per cent, gilders,
too soon wears off, and lets the gingerbread
show through ; and it is scarcely to be wondered
at that when the time came — after an
Ascot which did me no good, if no harm — •
to journey down to Sussex and tempt fortune
once more in the Duke of Richmond's
park, my gingerbread was very nearly apparent
to a close observer.

However, this time things actually did
look promising. The horse was as " fit as a
fiddle," the stable was confident to a man,
and the betting never wavered ; two to one,
and not a shade more could you get. Although
I formed one of a joyous party of
young scamps who had a house near Bognor,
I was unable to get down until the
very day of the race, as an inconvenient
guard-day intervened. At dinner that night
at St. James's I was silent and distracts
except when the conversation turned on

racing, and, do what I would to emulate
those calm gentlemen who lost ten years'
income without moving an eyebrow, I could
scarcely hide the agitation with which I
heard Charlie Maynard — a young man " in
the City " who always knew everything —
say that he had been told my horse Sopha
was reported to have pulled up lame after
his gallop on the previous day. I had
heard nothing of this, but beincj on ejuard I
was tied by the leg, and could only, after
meekly following ray drummer and his
erratic and strangely-confusing lantern oii
ray rounds that night, retire to bed and
dream of success on the morrow.

That morrow came. I rushed home to
dress, caught the last special to Goodwood
by half a minute, and unfolded the daily
paper which 1 had bought. Of course I
turned first to the sporting intelligence, and
just as Lady Glowerly — who had long
marked me for one of her stern-looking
daughters — was making some severe remark

anent the bad management of the line, I
read as follows : —

*' We have just received intelligence that
Sopha was struck out of the Goodwood
Stakes at nine last night. He pulled up
lame after his gallop on Monday, and, his
lameness increasing, Sir John Holland
decided on this step. In consequence of
his removal," &c.

But I could read no more; the words
swam before my eyes, and it was not until
the eldest Miss Glowerly had asked me
three times whether I had ever heard Mr.
Wilmington preach that I once more woke
to the consciousness of an outside world.

To get back to London was now my first
thought. I had not a shilling left ; indeed,
I doubted whether I could raise what I had
now lost; and, in justice to myself, I must
say that I never dreamed of attempting by
any plunging to get that back. It seemed
to me that to bet with no chance of not
paying when you lose was not honest. But

I was very young then. At the next station,
with some inane excuse to the Glowerly
family, I sprang out, and soon managed, by
dint of a bribe to the station-master, to stop
a returning train of empty carriages and
thus to return to town.

CHAPTER XVI.

A CHANGE IN LIFE.

^' TT'OUR determination is a wise one, my
"*- l^oy," said old Gilbeau, as we sat
together a few weeks after; 'rand I know
you won't mistake my meaning when I say
I am glad you did not accept my offer.
Heaven knows I don't grudge you the
money. I have more than I require for
myself; but it ivoiild, as you say, be better
for you to face the thing and be independent.
Of course I'll take five per cent., if
you insist, for that money wanted to pay off
the scoundrelly Jew — the idea of 120 percent.
! — and in a few years of living quietly'

in your new regiment abroad you'll be able
to pay off most of this mortgage. By the
way, what is the regiment ?"

"The tooth."

Quartered in Canada ?"

Yes, at Funereal."

And what does your mother say ?"

"She writes very kindly, but I cannot
help thinking she is scarcely sorry that I
should be obliged to leave London

an(

And your friend Bayley North. How
is it he hasn't been to see you lately ?"

He came yesterday, but I didn't see
him."

I suppose you have found out that he is
only a fair-weather friend, eh ?"

No — he has offered me any money I
required. No ; but — but we are not friends
still."

"Not friends, and yet he offers you
money ! Wonders will never cease."

When confiding my woe concerning Lady

Monymusk to old Gil, I did not tell him the
name of my favoured rival. Gil had always
so set himself against that intimacy that to
have done so would have been to give him
too great a triumph.

My affairs, although bad enough, had not
turned out, on thorough investigation, quite
so desperate as I supposed when I read the
news of Sopha's scratching. My old friend
in Park Lane lent me enough to pay off the
philanthropical Israelite, and I contrived to
raise a sufficient sum on mortgage of ney
estate to pay off the remainder of my debts
of all kinds. So when, one evening in September,
I sat down to a farewell dinner
given in my honour by some of my ex-brother
officers of the Fourth Guards, I was
in that light-hearted state popularly supposed
to be the attribute of a man who
"doesn't owe a shilling, by Jove, sir !"

Notwithstanding this, however, my heart
was very full, and the tears very near my
eyes, when dear old Marx rose, and, with a

certain rough pathos hardly hidden under
an elephantine attempt at humour, proposed
my health and asked them to drink to my
good luck in my new career ; and when,
after three ringing cheers had been given,
they all came round to shake my hand and
slap me encouragingly upon the back, I
fairly broke down, and had to turn away to
hide from them the traces of an emotion I
need not have been ashamed of.

** God bless you, Jock," said old Marx,
his voice sounding rather husky. ^' You're
a good chap, only you never would come
in time for parade ; and a good officer,
though I don't believe you ever quite
understood how to tell off your company ;
and we're all very fond of you, old chap,
though you did laugh at my poetry and
write parodies of it. Parody is a very
mean gift, Jock ; don't go parodying the
fellows in the tooth. They oughtn't stand it.
But after all there are parodies of Shakespeare,
and Byron, and — and Miss Angelo."

VOL. I. T

It's an awful slow regiment, the tooth,"
said one of our dashing subalterns, who
spent about £2,000 a year gaily on an
allowance of £300. " I hear there is only
one horse among them, and they take it in
turns to ride it, and generally tumble off."

"Yes," echoed another of the same
kidney, " and they go in for soldiering,
and science, and maps, and knowing how
much soap is used a day in the army, and
how many buttons are used up annually,
and all that sort of thing."

"There was a rich chap — cotton — or
something —-joined 'em once," went on the
first speaker, "and brought a private
servant ; but after a few weeks the C. 0.
sent for him, and said the officers would be
ruined unless this servant were sent away,
as they were all dressing after him. And
the cotton chap left because he wouldn't
part with his valet."

And they put a newly-joined Ensign in
Coventry because he swaggered so infernally

actually was caught putting pomatum on
his hair and parting it at the back on a
weekday /"

Oh, yes ! He was the same chap who
had a cousin who was a Baronet, and
mentioned him at mess by accident one day,
and he had to exchange, for the others said
they wouldn't speak to such a tuft-hunting
snob."

"Do you remember our lying next them
at Aldershot some years ago, and when we
dined with them how the Major, after
recommending the Moselle in preference to
the champagne, asked Tom Plant how much
leave we got in London, and how Tom said
it was all leave really, only he mustn't
mention it, because the Duchesses and
Marchionesses had formed a secret society,
called the Guards' Protection Association
(Limited), to do all our duty for us, with
sham mustachios."

Yes ; and then appeared that tremendous
letter in the Naval and Military Journal,

T 2

signed ' A Hard-working Linesman/ about
the privileges of the Guards,' hinting at
'even the vicious state of our aristocracy
adding its quota to their enervated frivolity
and scandalous and luxurious idleness'"

Thus they chattered on, while I, with a
heavy feeling at my heart, tried to join in
their mirth and share their nonsense ; until
the time came for even such as they to ga
to bed, and we separated, I to pack up my
things preparatory to an early start for
Ireland in the morning.

My visit to Ballyconor was short, and I
could not wish it to be longer. There
seemed some invisible barrier between my
mother and myself which neither of us was
able to break down, which rose up suddenly
just as for a moment there was — or appeared
to be — a chance of our understanding
one another, and which made our intercourse
a dreary succession of platitudes,
tempered by spasmodic and abortive attempts
at that sweet familiarity which should exist

between mother and son. Only once did
she mention JSTorth's name, and then there
came into her face a kind of dread and
aversion, which made me hastily change the
subject.

After a few days — daring which I did a
good deal of not over-satisfactory or pleasant
business with Jim Leary, who looked upon
my " emigration' as he insisted on calling
it, with dismay — I took train for Queenstown,
and there joined the good ship that
was to bear me over sea. But before I did
60 I received and wrote two letters, which I
will lay before my readers : —

Dear Sir Mervin,

I hear you have lost a great
deal of money, and have exchanged into a
line regiment in Canada. You were right
to do the last — to look your difficulties in
the face — as so few men of your age have
the courage to do. Good-bye. Do not hate
and despise me, Mervin. We may never

meet again. So I must write and tell you
how sincerely and truly I pray for your
welfare. And my prayer will be heard.
God is more merciful than man ; and
though you mistrust — nay, judge me — He
knows the truth. Some day perhaps you
will write to me to say ' good-bye.'
Yours very sincerely,

Gertrude Monymusk."

And this was my answer : —

"Dear Lady Monymusk,

I thank you for your good
wishes. I have exchanged into the tooth,
and am on the point of sailing to join it at
Quereal. Probably I shall be away from
England for five years.

*' Yours truly,

"Mervin O'Connor."

M

CHAPTER Xiii.

TO AMERICA.

OST people would probably suppose
that a steamer in mid-Atlantic during
the heights of an equinoctial gale was a very
unpleasant place ; and yet, putting aside any
possible danger, there are many things connected
with such a position which are diverting
in a high degree. In the first place,
given that you are not sea-sick, there is
something very comic in the attitudes
assumed by your friends when the ship gives
a sudden lurch, and the fun is considerably
heightened when sou see a dignified man,
whom you have for years believed to be a

hero even to his valet, rolling helplessly in
the lee scuppers. Then the excitement of
moving from that safe place under the lee
of the boat to windward to the head of the
companion is as good as a run with foxhounds.
How anxiously you watch the
motion of the vessel, and take note of that
wave yonder lifting his foam-crested head
above his fellows ! You are over him.
What a roll ! JN'ow is the time to make the
perilous voyage. You loosen your hold of
a back-stay and set forth. Alas ! The
wave behind the monster for whose passing
you had waited is another monster, not
quite so high, but with equal unsteadying
power. The ship jumps — literally jumps in
the air. You seize the first thing that
comes to hand — it happens to be the neck
of the disagreeable-looking gentleman you
have been so haughty to, having taken a
dislike to him on embarking at Liverpool ;
but there is no time for apologies, and you
both slide gracefully down the slippery

deck, until brought up by the lee-rail, and,
with irrepressible merriment, become henceforth
bosom friends.

Then the dinner — what a prolonged
practical joke that is ! How amiably and
without malice your soup, before you have
had time to taste it, comes into your lap ;
how pleasantly the steward behind you —
while clutching at a brother steward, and
causing him to break some five dozen
plates — upsets that dish of Irish stew on to
your head !

How amusing it is to watch the interior
emotions of the gentleman opposite — who
has just been chafing the Captain on the
bridge — as depicted by the changes of colour
upon his face and by his increasing want
of interest in his dinner. You mentally
make bets with yourself as to how long he
will last ; and when, after a pitiful attempt
at eating his boiled mutton, and with a
smile that reminds you of the smile of an
aged coryphee at a Paris theatre, he pleads

toothache, or a wish to brush his hair, or a
desire to consult the chart, as a reason for
hurriedly leaving the table, you must be
hard to please indeed if you have not enjoyed
the spectacle. We have all strength
enough to bear the woes of others, as the
French philosopher said ; and it is astonishing
how equably, how pleasantly, indeed,
we can all, ourselves well, look on at
the horrors of sea-sickness among our
friends.

This is, of course, if we have passed the
point of self-doubt. In a Channel passage
observe that gentleman with the cigar, unlit,
in his hand. His gaiety when, during
the first quarter of an hour, he observes the
contortions of the sufferers, is forced — he
seems, when laughing at your witty remarks,
to make some mental reserve — to
have some pity for the victims of internal
disturbance. In another quarter of an hour
his countenance clears ; he lights his cigar,
he walks the deck with an assumption of

ease and a swagger which are imposing, he
roars at the cadaverous face of yonder blue-checked
Frenchman, he would hitch up his
trousers a la T. P. Cooke if he only knew
the way to perform that nautical-dramatic
feat. This change is because he has tested
himself; and just as we are always extra
severe upon those faults we have only just
escaped, so he is pitiless in his scathing ridicule
of those unfortunates whose stomachs
are less strong than his.

'' The one quality I like above all others
in a passenger," said a sea-captain once, " is.
sea-sickness. Then he can't ask stupid
questions, and doesn't get in the way."

But to return to my Atlantic passage.
The ten days passed in the way these ten
days always do. At first slow and dreary
then monotonous but quick, until, when
Sandy Hook was in sight, I could scarcely
believe that three thousand miles intervened
between home and me. There was a young
lady on board, of course, with whom we all

flirted by turns, and on whose account the
males got up a little mild fictitious hatred of
each other; there was, of course, an old
traveller, who indulged us with accounts of
many perils by sea and land ; there was, of
course, the religious person, who gave us
tracts when he was not sea-sick, and who
took us all aside by turn to inquire after the
state of our souls ; there were the two
Roman Catholic priests, as inseparable as
Siamese twins, apparently engaged in a
friendly contest as to which should present
the broadest expanse of unshorn and bristly
cheek and chin and the tiniest bit of dirty
linen under it ; there was the shrewd-looking,
dried-up Yankee judge, with his indefatigable
eagerness to ascertain facts from
everyone — from the age of your last child
to the colour of your wife's grandmother's
hair, and with his intimate and somewhat
mysterious knowledge of many English things
such as what Lord Beaconsfield says to
his valet, and how much the Queen pays

her maid-servants — with which you as an
Englishman can pretend to no acquaintance ;
there was the New Pendant commercial
traveller, who made up the list for each
day's sweepstakes on the " run," and who
sold the numbers with such dry humour
and in such a hard voice, invariably buying
in the likely ones for himself; there was the
rubicund-visaged, pleasant doctor, whose
only weakness, if it be a weakness, was
for a game of whist and a few cock tails ;
there was the purser, who found time,
amidst his other avocations, to make love-and
be of immense use to every decent-looking
woman on board, whose cabin was
full of photographs of his many Atlantic
conquests, and who never by any chance
made mention of the wife and seven
children in that little house outside
Liverpool ; and, to come to the most
important person last, there was the Captain
" old sea-dogs'* as the passengers reverently
called him — whose jokes were as bad as

his knowledge of seamanship was good, and
whose nose was rather redder than his
ship's port light.

Our gale of wind on the third day out,
in which we lost a boat and altogether got
a good deal knocked about, made us all
more intimate than we otherwise should
have been, and I think, when we walked
on shore at New York to go through the
terrors of the Custom House examination,
that many of us were really sorry to have
come to an end of the voyage and to have
set eyes on each other — at least, as far as
most of us where concerned — for probably
the last time.

There is something rather sad about
friendships struck up in the course of a
voyage. Of course, addresses are carefully
written ; promises of correspondence, of
visits, are profusely made ; but nevertheless
by both parties they are known to be more
or less hollow — it is good-bye for ever, as a
rule; and that feeling throws an element

of sadness and sentiment into the last hour
on board which is not quite subdued by the
natural satisfaction at having gained our
port, or even by the bustle of getting
baggage together, paying one's bills, and
making judicious presents to stewards and
other functionaries of the ship.

In New York I did not linger long, for
I was anxious to get to ray regiment and
begin duty ; but of course I could not escape
without receiving a little experience of
American hospitality, which was then — as
far, at any rate, as Englishmen were
concerned — most lavish. During the week
of my stay I could have eaten five dinners
a night, and danced in as many ball-rooms ;
and, if I got a little tired of being asked
what I thought of the country, still I, at
any rate, was shown it through the rosiest of
spectacles. One incident, I remember,
amused me at the time. I was dining out,
and a general officer sitting near me kept
observing me with a puzzled and doubtful

expression of face. At last, when dinner
was over, he took me aside.

*' Sir," said he, very gravely, " may I ask
you a question ?"

'' Certainly, General."

*well, sir, I have heard you called a
baronet. Is that so ?"

^' Yes ; I am one."

'* And yet you are going to join a British
regiment as a subaltern ? Look here —
you'll excuse my curiosity — but are you a
baronet or a lieutenant?"

When I told him I was both he left me,
deeply disgusted; and henceforth I know
the worthy man looked upon me as an
impertinent impostor, whom only his good-nature
prevented him from exposing.

At the Cheroot House, which was my
hotel, 1 had for the first time an opportunity
of observing the effect of so-called freedom
on certain minds, and this episode may be
worth transcribing.

The morning after mv arrival I had

occasion to ring the bell. After having
continued to do so at intervals for some
half-hour I was startled by a blow on the
outside of my door, at the bottom — evidently
a kick.

'* Come in !" I roared, thinking it was a
strange way of knocking.

What do you want ?" was shouted from
outside.

Come in !" I again said. But as this
produced no effect I opened the door.
Leaning against the wall, deeply engaged in
paring his nails with a knife, was a
shock-headed youth, one of the hotel
helps." He looked at me with some
interest — much as one looks at a new animal
at the Zoological Gardens — and then calmly
finished his right hand and commenced
operations with his left, saying lazily, and as
if the subject had very little interest for
him —

What were you ringing about ? What
do you want ?"

VOL. I. * u

By this time I was a little provoked.

"Why the deuce don't you come in
and see ?"

He looked at me again in that calm
manner, and then replied, applying the knife
carefully —

I guess it'll do as well here."

Go and get me some water."

He slowly shut up his knife, put his hands
in his pockets, and, sauntering past me into
my room, pressed the electric bell-button
with the sole of his shoe. Having done this
he was about to leave, when catching sight
of something that interested him in the
street, he stood gazing out of the window,
whistling to himself the while.

It was too amusing to cause anger, and I
watched him silently.

After a few minutes his interest in the
view of Fifth Avenue died away, and, seeing
me looking fixedly at him, he nodded
his head, and said —

*' Maid's business — she'll bring water.
That's a nice stick. Guess you bought
that in England. What may it have cost?
Five dollars, now ?"

He had taken up my cane, which lay on
the table, and was twisting it about in his
very dirty fingers.

*put it down, you impudent scoundrel 1"

"I shan't hurt it," he said; but a
significant move on my part caused him
to obey.

^'Now take my boots and clean them."

"Your boots?"

"Yes. My boots."

Where are they ?"

Lying there."

Wal — give 'em to me."

Pick them up at once ; do you
hear ?"

He looked at the boots ; then at me ;
then at the boots again ; and then put his
hands deep into his pockets.

u2

You should have left them outside. It's
not my business to pick them up."

It's your business to do what you're
told."

I'm not your servant."

Yes, you are. At any rate "

**I reckon you'll find you're wrong. Weare
all equal here, sir."

And you get no wages ?"

*' I guess I get a salary." And he spat
thoughtfully into the fireplace.

I could scarcely help laughing at
his calm impudence, but I managed to says,
gravely —

*' Well, we won't argue about salary. I
don't mind admitting that all men are
equal."

'that's about so."

** Just as if there were no ranks,
distinctions, and laws, and things — one man
against another. The might of the People
to rule everything."

"That's well said. Yes, the might

of the many against the tyranny of the few."
Of course the youth was a politician
all the lower classes in America are —
and probably had picked this phrase up
from a stump oration.

"Very well — might against right. Do
you see this cane, and do you see me ? I'm
Might. You want to tyrannise over me by
refusing to obey my orders — I am going to
rebel against the tyranny. You say all men
are equal, but you want to put yourself
above me by getting wages for what you
don't do, which is evidently unfair, as"/
can t manage it. So I, the People, rise in
my majesty against you, the Tyrant. If
you don't pick up those boots in one
minute and take them downstairs to be
blacked, I'll give you as sound a thrashing
as you ever got in your life."

He looked at me to see if I was in
earnest ; he looked at the cane, ominously
quivering in my hand ; he looked at the
boots, and as I made a step towards him

he picked them up and sullenly left the
room.

Come back and shut the door —
gently. If you bang it I'll kick you down
the passage."

I was close behind him with the cane, and
he obeyed, taking a not very consolatory
revenge by whistling "Yankee Doodle"
when he was in comparative safety at the
head of the staircase.

My next experience of equality and the
rights of man was also funny, though in
this case 1 gained no victory. I entered
a barber's shop in Broadway. It was a
small establishment, and at the time of my
visit there were no customers, and the two
operators were both seated in the shaving-chairs,
with their feet up in the air, reading
newspapers.

I want to be shaved," I said.

One of them looked up, and then proceeded
to read on.

Again I expressed my desire.

*^ One minute. I'm just reading Senator
Handling's oration down at Louisville."

He finished his article, keeping me standing
all the while — for he and his brother
barber occupied the only chairs — and then
rose slowly. I was about to place myself
in the chair, and had actually removed my
coat, when I noticed my friend pass his
hand doubtfully over his own chin.

'eyes, I guess I'll be done first. Here,
Seth, just give me a touch of a razor. I've
got a party this afternoon, and my chin's
like a nutmeg grater." And he sat down*
again, while the other rose and prepared to
comply with his request.

'' You impudent rascal !" I exclaimed ;
do you aidan to say you are going to keep
me waiting while you are shaved ?"

*' I guess I have a right to be shaved in
my own house. You can sit down there, if
you like."

"We must accept the bad with the good,"
said a friend to whom I recounted this

experience. ^' The national independence,
which is a good thing, carries with it, of
course, some abuses. But even they do not
detract from its immense value."

*' I don't see anything independent in the
absence of courtesy."

No ; I daresay you don't. But an
American does. Courtesy so often means
what you call respect shown by an inferior
to a superior. Now an American, because
he cleans your boots or shaves your chin,
does not thereby acknowledge that he is not
socially your equal."

"That may be; but there is no reason
why, when you are paid to do a thing, you
should not do it with civility and willingly.
And-these fellows are civil to each other, 1
suppose."

Yes. The middle-class American's
manner is perfect, as a rule."

Then by rudeness, instead of showing
himself my equal, he shows that he knows
he isn't, and is protesting against my assumption

of a superiority to which he is aware I
have a right."

*' Well," said my American friend, avoiding
my argument, " there was a Lord came
from your country last year, and he had his
name and title painted on his box, and
coming up from Boston by the cars he
called for some one to put this box in. Well,
sir, it struck the boys there to make a jokes
him, and to see whether the Lord could
put in his box himself. So they told
him to."

"And he did?"

^* And he did. But he swore dreadfully."
What was the business of the ' boys ' ?"
'' Well — to look after luggage and that."
'' And they showed their American
independence by refusing to do their duty
because it would have helped a Lord !
Very fine !"

"Yes, sir; the story got about New
York, and occasioned a good deal of
laughter."

When I arrived at Quereal the tints of
the fall were beginning to make the country
around glorious with their varied hues ; but
the Society of that city had not returned
from the watering-places to which it was che
rigueur to go every autumn, and the town
was most desperately dull. However, at
first I had enough to do in making acquaintance
with my brother officers and getting
rid of the strong prejudice against me as
an ex-Guardsman and probable swaggerer.
Every now and then, watch myself as carefully
as I could, some chance allusion to
London life, some mention of a big name,
would bring a sneer on the faces round the
mess-table ; and it was months before I had
convinced them all that I was not in reality
filled with contempt for all that did not
savour of St. James's, nor was anxious to
dazzle them with the splendour of my
aristocratic acquaintance in London town.

Perhaps the thing that eventually won
their hearts was my very evident hard-upness,

and my frank avowal of it; while my judicious
snubbing of a certain Captain Pamela
"beauty-man " of the hairdresser's model
type, whose father had been a fashionable
London tailor, and who prided himself upon
being out of place and thrown away in a
Line regiment, won me many friends among
the youngsters, who had long half-admired
and half feared the whiskered impostor.

Then the old stories gleaned at Clubs,
which were useless in London, came out
brand new in the tooth ante-room, while,
when rosy wine (Moselle at twenty-four
shillings a dozen) on a guest night had
opened their hearts, and for the moment
dispelled suspicion as to my intention of
self-glorification, the recount of what the

Duke of A said to Lord B at

Ascot, or how the Marchioness of C had

snubbed poor Lady D at Buckingham

Palace, gave a tinge of aristocratic flavour
to the regiment, which was acceptable to all,
and especially so to dear old Sinks, the

Quartermaster, who had risen from the
ranks, and spent all his little leave when at
home with his old mother, who kept a snuff
shop in St. Mary Axe.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON: PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

AND

OTHER TALES.

VOL. IL

AND

OTHER TALES

BV

THE EARL OF DESART

AUTHOR OF

THE HONOURABLE ELLA,"
Coverdale,"

&c., &c.

•

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1880.

All rights reserved.

MERVYN O'CONNOR

(CONTINUED.)

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XVIII.

Funereal.

IT must not be supposed that the change
of scene and other influences of my
altered life in any way deadened the feeling
of despair which had come upon me when I
saw Lady Monymusk for the last time. She
was still always in my thoughts; she appeared
to me waking and sleeping, still withall
her wondrous charm of beauty and expression,
still as the power that coloured
every action of my life, but with a pain

B 2

added that entirely destroyed those pleasures
of youthful imagination and chivalrous
sacrifice which had been in my mind associated
with her image.

I believe that if I had been at her bedside
and seen her die, believing her to care nothing
for anyone save her husband, I should
have been happy — that is, comparatively
speaking. I never argued the matter out
logically with myself; but of course now I
know that much of my anguish — which I
believed to be wholly caused by her descent
from the pedestal of virtue on which I had
mentally placed her — was in reality caused
by the fact that she had left that pedestal
in company with some one who was not I.

Another's love for oneself is always excusable.
The man must be possessed of a
rare and not agreeable cynicism who could
blame a woman for sacrificing all for his
sake : although, indeed, there is a well-known
French novel in which the Don
Juan turns fiercely on the lady and reproaches

her with having betrayed his friend,
her husband !

Englishmen, however, do not often rise to
this height of introspective — or retrospective
— morality; and are much inclined to
pardon a sin when they reap the benefits
thereof and do not share in the punishment
therefrom.

This is an easy managed tolerance, and
adds to the pleasure which exists in sin.

I could have forgiven my divinity, my
adored Gertrude, anything she might have
done — for me. Had she put a little prussic
acid into his Lordship's tea ; had she even
written anonymous abuse of him in a weekly
paper ; I could have loved her all the more
if these acts had been performed for my
sake. But when it came to poor Lord
Monymusk's being deceived, betrayed,
&c., &c., for another, for Colonel Bayley
North, the thing became too horrible for
words, and I could only — as I inwardly
expressed it in those miserable days — eat

out my heart in a vain regret that one so
fair should be so horribly false. Doubly
false, too ; for had she not deceived rae,.
who lead believed her to be an angel, and
who had so heroically stifled my love for
her lest it should offend those delicate
instincts of virtue I had endowed her with ?

You may admire a woman for repulsing
everyone, yourself included, but you must
hate her if she repulses you and does not
repulse everyone else.

She who will sin for you is impelled by
inexorable destiny ; but that destiny has
nothing to do with her proceedings as
j-'e^rards any other young man.

The difficulty I experienced during ray
first month at Quereal in preventing myself
from writing to her impassioned letters of
reproach, entreaty, love — all mingled as they
were mingled in my heart — was immense.
Twenty times did I sit down — generally
after mess, when the twenty-four shilling,

moselle had been flowing freely — to write
in my heart's blood on the subject ; and
twenty times did I, the morning after, tear
up the letter, blotted not only with ink, but
also with tears, and smelling so strongly of
tobacco smoke.

To forget her — to cure myself of what appeared
to be a morbid hankering after an
impossibility (for granted that I could win
her love, it would not be now the love of
the unstained lady to whom I had given metcalf
adorations — I went largely throughout
that winter into such society as Quereal
afforded. I started a sleigh, with two ponies
and lovely robes of white fox fur, trimmed
with the colours adopted by my regiment
for cricket and other purposes — green, yellow,
and drab. I became a proficient at
the Albert Rink in the outside edge backwards,
the Dutch roll, the figure of eight,
and all the other intricacies of skating. I
chose a "muffin," and adhered to her with
a perseverance which augured well for my

eventual matrimonial tractability, and I
actually — when the said muffin happened
not to be there — cast aside all my melancholy
and hermit-like airs at an occasional
ball, and flirted in a style impossible out of
the Dominion.

Oh, those Canadian feet ! Whether they
have benefited by that distance that lends
enchantment to the view, whether the lapse
of time has lessened their size or added a
fresh grace to their form in my memory, I
know not. But I do know that even now
the memory of some of them as they twinkled
over the floor of St. Barnabas Hall mess-room,
or showed their little tips as they
emerged from a sleigh at the conclusion of
a " club drive," makes me feel as if — in
short, as if 1 were twenty-one again.

They could take care of themselves, the
owners of these tiny feet, and knew perfectly
well the exact line which separates flirtation
jocose from flirtation serious, with consequence
and responsibilities.

A look or a tone might overstep this
boundary, and I remember at a ball one night
when something — a particular valse, I fancy
had made me think of Gertrude, that I
repeated, for probably the tenth time, some
mane compliment to my partner's beauty ;
but, Gertrude being in my mind, I did it so
seriously, and with such a sentimentally
melancholy expression, that, to my horrified
surprise, the girl rose in evident perturbation,
and said, " Papa will be back from his office
tomorrow at six, and you can tell him. I
presume we are engaged ?"

After that I was very careful to keep up
the orthodox grin while paying compliments
to my partners; but nevertheless my absence
of mind, not long after, caused me another
embarrassment.

Tired of dancing, I had taken my partner
into a quiet corner, and was engaged with
her in the pleasant and harmless amusement
of turning over the leaves of a photograph-book

and saying cutting things of the people
therein portrayed.

Examining one picture more interesting
than the rest, our faces came very close
together. She was very pretty. I was
very 3'oung. She seemed a careless, good-natured
girl. I was possessed of a certain
amount of audacity. The opportunity was
perfect ; at that moment we had the room
to ourselves, and the view of it from the ballroom
was blocked up by the presence in the
door of the fattest man in my regiment.

''So pretty, isn't she, Sir Mervin?" said
she, with her lips not an inch from mine,
and her fringe of soft hair on her forehead
literally touching mine, while her eyes seemed
to say, '* Yes." So I kissed her.

She rose, with the dignity of five offended
Queens rolled into one, and sailed from the
room, after an exclamation of indignation.

Certainly I had only made her acquaintance
that evening, but still ■ Well, I

came out of the sitting-room, and had the

satisfaction of seeing her talking eagerly,
looking very pretty with the bright colour
on her cheeks, to an elderly but uncommonly
well-preserved gentleman, whom I
ascertained to be her whither. Other dances
and other partners soon drove this little
incident out of ray head ; and when I woke
next morning, and with joy remembered
that there was no parade, and that I could
suit my hours of rising to my own laziness,
I had utterly forgotten all about the
kiss.

Suddenly there were given at my door
those bangs which a soldier-servant believes
to be delicate and refined raps, and which
wake you in the morning with a confused
idea that the end of the world has come,
and that the angel Gabriel is hewing the
wicked into pieces ; and, simultaneously with
that worthy domestic, entered the elderly
gentleman of the night before. He made a
slight bow, and from my bed, only half
awake yet, I watched him while he slowly

removed his fur-coat and gloves, and then
proceeded to lay upon my table a very
formidable-looking hunting-crop.

"You are Sir Mervin O'Connor?" he
said at last, just as I was beginning to pinch
myself to ascertain whether this were not
some hideous dream out of which it would
be a relief to awake and be horse-whipped.


I acknowledged my identity.

And you insulted ray daughter last
night," he went on, in a matter-of-fact way,
much as if these insults, followed by his
matutinal revenge, were matters of everyday
occurrence. "You kissed her on first
acquaintance. Do you deny it ?"

He glanced at his hunting-whip, and made
a step towards the table on which it lay.

The situation was decidedly unpleasant.

Mr. "

Robinson."

No, Mr. Robinson ; I plead guilty."

"Ah!" He had hold of the infernal

whip by this time. I could scarcely help
laughing at the absurdity of the thing, and
yet, apart altogether from the chance of his
getting the best of it, a fight with this irate
papa would be most disagreeable ; so I
hurried on, while he stood over the bed —

*but I have some excuse. You must
remember that Miss Robinson's beauty is of
no common order. There is something so
aristocratic "

He interrupted me with much hauteur,
but, I thought, with less determination in
his tone —

We are, sir, the elder branch of tlfe
Robinsons of Gloucestershire. You know
them, of course ?"

Prevarication here was absolutely necessary.


"Yes; I recognised the features at once
a splendid family — the Robinsons of
Gloucestershire. Well — you see — I am
scarcely accustomed to such beauty as that
of your daughter ; and it — coupled with the

lights — the music — the dancing — the champagne
— the lobster salad — were too much
for me. I apologise."

He looked at me doubtfully.

"This is the truth?"

Of course. Won't you have a cocktail
?"

The whip was put down. He shook me
warmly by the hand, and in a few minutes
we were hobnobbing together over a vile
concoction of rye-whisky, bitters, and
mashed-up ice.

Molly Robinson and I after this became
great friends, and I even took her as my
Muffin No. 2— the "understudy" of No. 1,
as actors would say — and had many a
pleasant flirtation with her as we drove home
through the crisp moonlight, with the sleigh,
bells jangling through the clear air. But I
never kissed her again, not knowing whether
the position would afford an excuse as good
as that which had warded off her father's
vengeance.

My legitimate muffin was a young lady
familiarly known amongst us as "Waters" —
why, nobody knew — who had been engaged
so continuously to ensigns in the different
regiments that succeeded each other at Que-real
(indeed it was said that she forwarded
her carte-de-visite to the Mess Committee of
the in-coming regiment a weeks before they
arrived so as not to break the current of
Jiancee-ism) that she almost ranked as a married
woman.

She had a marvellous knowledge of the
Army List, a good temper, an enormous
appetite for sweet things— which I procured
for her from New York — and a more or less
amusing power of conversation. So our
drives together were pleasant enough. One
great advantage of my choice was that she
had been muffin already to most of my
brother officers at various times, and therefore
by it I incurred none of the pains and
penalties of jealousy. It was even rumoured
that she had been engaged to our Colonel

himself, when he had visited Canada to put
down a rebellion known to us only through
our books of history. But this I am inclined
to disbelieve, and rather give credit to
the assertion that it was her elder sister who
enjoyed this distinction ; a charming lady, too,
who had married a merchant in the city of
Quereal, and who gave capital balls — capital
at least in the way of amusement for those
in search of the ludicrous, as her ball-room
would hold sixty people and she asked two
hundred, who all came.

^ ^ 5j7 etc TJC ^

Somehow or other the long winter passed
away ; the snow melted, the river became
navigable again, and that great event, the
starting of the first steamer, took place.
Sleighs and furs and skates were put away,
and ineffectual attempts in the way of various
kinds of long boots were made to keep out
that slush of mud and melted snow which
accompanies a Canadian thaw.

I said good-bye to my muffin with a sense
of some relief; for we had exhausted our conversation,
and had become very like a married
couple in our impatience of stories and
jests that we knew too well ; and I had just
made up my mind to spend my leave taking
a look round the United States, when I received
a letter from my mother announcing
the death of poor dear old Gilbeau.

I was very fond of him, and heartily sorry
sorry for his death even after I had perused
another which came a mail later telling
me that he had left his whole fortune — after
a few annuities to old servants &c., had been
paid — to me.

I was a rich man again now, and the recollection
of Gertrude Monymusk had sufficiently
faded for me to wish once more to
enjoy the sweets of London life. The
officers of the tooth were capital fellows.
Even Captain Poamer, the " beauty man,"
had, under a rigid course of chaff, shown

VOL. II. c

that he was possessed of very good qualities ;
but to me the delights of garrison life were
only pale imitations of the amusements of
the metropolis, and the conversation night
after night at mess, full of joviality and good
spirits as it was, had begun to pall upon me.

So I attended my last guest night, when
oceans of moselle were quaffed in my
honour; I served on my last court-martial,
and for the last time I "told off" my company,
reproved Private Atkins for the dirtiness
of his belt, and pounced down upon
Private Trains for jocular conduct in the
ranks ; and, about a year from m}^ arrival in
the country, I took ship at Monte and
sailed for the shores I had quitted so hopelessly
ruined in heart and purse.

One passage in a letter I had received
from Marx I read over two or three
times : —

''I hear that Lord Monymusk has gone
clean off his head with jealousy — of Bay ley
North, they say — and that the poor woman

by Jove ! how beautiful she is ! — has a
very hard time of it. You were hit hard
there yourself, Jock, I remember."

c2

CHAPTER XIX.

AN ENCOUNTER IN LAMBETH.

TT has been said that friends are like
J- tobacco — you can buy them any day in
the year, Sundays and holidays not excluded
; and, in the limited sense in which all
rough-and-ready sayings of this kind must
be taken, it is true enough. A man with
plenty of money can always, should he
choose, be surrounded by many persons
who outwardly act the part of friends.
They will praise him to his face a good
deal ; and, perhaps, not for his own honour,
but for their own justification, behind his
back a little. They will fetch and carry for

him, and bear almost anything calmly
except a suspicion as to the reality of his
fortune. And, if not the real article, they
will tend to make his life almost as agreeable
as if they actually loved him for himself
only.

No doubt one of the greatest luxuries
which a rich man can buy is this friendship,
or companionship, or outward sympathy, or
whatever it may be called. Your popular
poor man is sure to have many lonely hours
when his friends are engaged in other pursuits
— which the rich unpopular man never
need know. More especially will he find
out the need of the circulating medium if he
goes away for .a time sufficiently long to let
the grass grow over his memory ; and the
London soil is most suitable to this kind of
growth. The fact is that in the hurry and
bustle of social life in a large community a
man cannot possibly be remembered for
himself alone, or even for such small
benefits to his fellow-men as can be done by

pleasantness and geniality There must be
some sterling contribution in the shape of
dinners, or coach-drives, or other practical
advantages connected with him to keep him
in men's memories for many weeks after he
has disappeared.

^'Jack So-and-so has come back; he's
been in America for two years' you hear
at the Club ; and the answer is, " Ah, yes;
Jack — he was rather a nice chap, but careless
; sure to go to the bad. What time
shall we dine ?"

*' Mr. John Whatyecallit has come back
been living on his property in Cornwall
these three years."

'' By Jove ! Come back, has he !
Rather a stuck-up chap, proud of his
naoney-bags. Where do you say he lives in
town ? I'll call upon him tomorrow."

I was astonished — overwhelmed — by the
cordial welcome I received in London.
True, I had only been away for a year,
but that is a long time in " Society," and I

expected to share the fate of a brother
officer who once told me that, on returning
from a year s absence on duty in India, he
was greeted by an old crony at the Rag
with these disappointing words, *' Hullo, old
chap ! Where have you been ? I haven't
seen you for the last few days !" My
friend says that from that dreadful day he
ceased to believe in human nature, or in
friendship, or any other of the pretty fables
of the nursery.

But in my case the news of my good
fortune had preceded me. I was a parti —
distinctly a parti — and not many days had
I been in town before invitations came
showering down upon me until my looking-glass
could hold no more, and until I began
to feel that I must indeed be a very pleasant
person to be so universally required to
grace dinners, parties, balls, breakfasts, and
all manner of festivities. Colonel Gilbeau
was far richer than we had given him credit
for, having saved during his long stay at

Ballyconor; and the amount of ready
money I found lying at my bankers fairly
turned my head.

The very limited income I had drawn
from the small and badly-farming tenants in
Ireland after my brother's death was nothing
to this. Now I had no bad season, no
attempted reduction of rents, to fear. It
was all hard solid money, to be used at my
fair pleasure, and at hand in a moment at
my beck and call.

It did not seem to myself that I was a
whit cleverer or more agreeable than when
I had departed, ruined, nine months before
; but I must have been so, for now
my lightest sayings were listened to with
respectful attention, and my good stories,
when I could remember any, caused perfect
peals of laughter. Nay, my way of
speaking must in some mysterious fashion
have improved mightily, for I found ancient
jokes which had missed fire with me scores

of times in the old days now awake perfect
enthusiasm in my auditors.

And with this ready sympathy came
confidence. I began to believe in myself.
I walked with an assumed gait that in a
poor man would assuredly have been
termed swagger. I talked loud and
interrupted other people ; I laughed at my
own jokes ; I invented a new-shaped hat ;
I revolted successfully against many hitherto
unchallenged but annoying petty ordinances
of fashion and custom ; to call me " Jock "
became an honour for younger men ; to
have the entree of the little Park Lane hdtise
(which I retained, and " did up " from
cellar to attic in the perfection of bachelor
style) was a thing to scheme for.

Had those forms of genteel advertising
been invented then, I should have had
my photograph in the shop windows,
and have read weekly paragraphs concerning
me in the organs of Society.

But Society in those days was smaller ;
perhaps it was a trifle more refined ; and
certainly it had then a certain knack,
now entirely lost, of washing its dirty
linen at home, and keeping its little
scandals from the sight of the profane
vulgar. People who have in the last few
years become accustomed to hear the names
of ladies with whom they associate,
and whose only crime is their beauty,
shouted from cad to cad with coarse
accompaniments of badinage in the street,
can scarcely realise how short a time has
elapsed since the idea of a lady's personal
and private looks being actually commented
upon in the Press would have set all Society
in a glow of horror and indignation.

To say that I did not enjoy ray season of
vanity would be untrue ; but it was not all
quite as sweet as it might have been supposed.
The suspicion of insincerity sometimes
took away all the charm of the
best-done flattery ; the knowledge of human

nature which I had unconsciously acquired'
often prevented ray shutting my eyes to the
main cause of ray success.

And one may have too much of even a
good thing. When you have the world at
your feet and are tempted to kick it, it rolls
for you, in the direction you choose, truly;
but the concussion hurts your foot nevertheless,
for the world is the harder.

The worship of the mothers pleased,
surprised, comforted, flattered, bored, and
ended by alarming me. On the old mud-throwing
principle, they threw such an
amount of love at me that even I began to-think
some of it must perforce stick. They
hunted me sometimes singly, sometimes in
packs, trusting, I suppose, at the last worry
each to be the one that got first bite. They
woke me out of my first sleep — after, perhaps,
a long night, beginning with a party,
then a ball, then Remorse and a cigar, and
then another ball at Mr. Free's — with little
notes, carefully left overnight for the housemaid

to despatch the first thing next day by
cab ; notes praying me to lunch, imploring
me to dine, conjuring me to dance, all of
them requiring an immediate answer, which
answer, should it be unfavourable, brought
a swift revenge in the shape of another note,
still more emphatic, which came, swift as
fate, just as I was about to enter my tub.

Oh ! how I longed for a law which should
inhibit the sending of notes before noon ! I
have had four footmen at a time waiting in
my hall, while I groaned upstairs over the
paucity of excuses as yet invented for declining
invitations.

When I remembered how very easily in
old days I could evade an engagement by
the concoction of a fictitious guard or orderly
duty, I sometimes regretted the time of
comparative insignificance.

Only once during that first season after
my return did I see Gertrude Monymusk.
1 was strolling one fine evening home from
Waterloo Station (having been down to a

water party, and having sent away my
T-cart), when the idea seized me, as I had
an hour before dressing time, to penetrate
some of the slums that lie about Lambeth,
and to contrast my wealth with the poverty
I should see. I was curious to observe the
effect it would have upon me ; for it sometimes
amused me to make experiments upon
myself, and one height of philosophy (and
after all it is the real aim of all philosophy)
I longed to attain to was the possession of
the power of treating one's own troubles
and pain with the same indifference, or
equanimity of sorrow, With which one treats
those of others.

The sights I saw were not very terrible.
The women sitting at their doors working,
or yelling to each other and to their muddy
children, who were trying to render passing
cabman guilty of homicide in the street,
certainly looked poor ; but I saw no
misery in their faces. There were, of course
marks of that anxiety which living from day

to day always leaves, and in their eyes
gleamed the shrewdness of those who cannot
afford to be cheated; but as I leisurely
passed along in my abandon of wealth and
pleasure, I could not see that I, although I
was going to a good dinner that night, and
had scores of good dinners in the future
marked down on my engagement-book,
was really one whit more contented than
these people, who perhaps were sure of the
Thread and cheese for that night's supper,
and of no more.

Somehow or other the reflection humiliated
and annoyed me, and I was about to
turn and retrace my steps towards Waterloo
Bridge, when my attention was attracted to
what appeared to be a miniature riot a little
further down the street. Going towards it,
I found that the excited group was composed
of persons — women and a few men,
of the neighbourhood, who were hurrying
from their doors — surrounding a lady in

their midst. I knew she was a lady, although
I could only catch sight of a bonnet ;
there was something in the way the bonnet
was made, or put on, or carried, which was
enough for me.

Not quite sure of the intentions of the
crowd — which was rapidly acquiring a right
to be called by that name — I hurried up
and elbowed my way towards the centre of
attraction ; and then I knew that my services
were at any rate not required to shield the
wearer of the bonnet from danger.

So many blessings, so many kind words,
poured upon one person in a short space of
time I never before heard.

*' She's an angel !" said one old woman.

'angel!" scoffed another. "Better nor
that. The angels stop up there and do
nought ; she comes here and sees us."

All I can say," said a labouring man
who was in the centre, "' is that the doctor
told me — ^jist as I tell you now — that there

isn't a ness in his 'hospital who'd ha' nursed
Emmy has she's done ; so 'ere's three cheers
for Mrs. Mayne !"

They cheered lustily ; and a cabman,
driving down the street, and stopped by the
crowd, waved his hat out of sympathy and
cheered too.

Come, clear the street ! I can't wait
here all night. Go on, cabman," cried a
harsh voice ; and I turned round and saw
that the occupant of the hansom was Lord
Monymusk.

"Make way — the gentleman's in a hurry!"
said a rough-looking young gentleman, with
broad shoulders, and the real Newgate curl
over his ear, placing himself exactly in front
of the cab-horse.

Now then, move on — you mustn't stop
the traffic !" said a portentous policeman,
emerging a little guiltily from the public-house,
and arranging his belt hurriedly,
while the foam of the half-and-half still
adhered to his lips.

Obedience to the law being the Englishman's
distinguishing characteristic, the crowd
melted away, and then, for the first time, I
saw the lady who had been the cause of its
gathering.

And Lord Monymusk also saw.

Gertrude !" he shouted, springing out of
the cab.

She shrank back as if alarmed, and instinctively
I made a step towards them, for
the man looked dangerous.

*' You here again ? Get in !"

He pointed to the cab, and, after a moment's
hesitation, she obeyed.

"Turn round. Go to Hertford Street'*
he shouted through the trap at the top of
the cab, while the people about stood still,
wondering.

"That'll be Mr. Mayne, I expect," said a
man next to me. " 'E don't look like a
nice un at home. There's a licking in his
eye."

"If he was to touch her," said the

VOL. II. D

man who lead spoken of his Emmy, *^ I'd
kill 'im, whoever 'e is. She is too good to
be married — except to a Took — she is."

I walked home, and for days I could not
quite free myself from the remembrance of
the despair on Lady Mony musk's face as
she drove off by the side of her husband.

CHAPTER XX.

A REVELATION INTERRUPTED.

SIR MERVYN O'CONNOR,
My master, Mr. James, is
very ill, and has asked for you. Can you
come? He won't last long, and I think it
would ease his mind to see you.
^' Your faithful servant,

Henry Bede."

This note was put into my hand one
morning soon after my Lambeth experience,
and of course I lost no time in going to
Wandsworth. The old servant — who had
written the letter — was a trifle less given to

d2

suspicion than on my first visit, although I
could see that he bore me no great goodwill.


But what made me like the man was the
trace of emotion on his rugged face ; even
now tears were glistening in his eyes.

'how is my uncle?"

Very nigh gone — very nigh ! And to
think that after all he's "

"He's what," I asked, as the old man
lifted up his hands in horror.

Let a woman in here !" He spoke much
in the tone a Lady Superior might have
used at seeing a male in her convent.

'' Has he ? Is she with him ?" I asked,
wondering whether I was about to see the
denouement of a romance.

No ; she went an hour ago. And now
he's alone with the dogs. They know he's
going."

Alone with the dogs ! And who is hi
doctor?"

•' He won't have one — and he's main

right. A doctor can only tell you what's
the matter with you, and I'd as lief die
without knowing why — except that God
wills it."

AVe were proceeding down the passage ashe
spoke, and as he stopped at a door, I
was about to enter, when the old servant
stopped me.

*' Take care — you'll be eaten. The dogs
are not in a good humour, I promise you."

He entered first, and all round the dim
room I could hear subdued growling,
which at a word from the old man ceased,
but were renewed as the animals became
aware that he was not alone.

"Lie down — quiet, dogs — a friend ! Mr.
James."

*' Yes," said a feeble voice from the bed.
Is that my nephew ?"

I have come, uncle. I hope "

He stopped me.

Bring a lamp ; and, Mervin, sit down
there, where I can see you. Don't hope —

unless you hope for me to die without much
pain. I am tired of pain ; for I have borne
so much — both of body and mind."

I sat down where he told me, and soon a
dim lamp threw fantastic shadows over the
strange scene. The handsome, white hollow-eyed
old man lying on his bed of death —
for even I could see that recovery must be
impossible ; the dogs all around, some
sleeping, some walking about uneasily, and
some watching him with anxious, affectionate,
puzzled gaze ; the mediaeval appearance
of the room, with its tapestry and old armour
on the wall.

Will you not see a doctor ? I "

Doctor ! No. They cannot cure fate ;
and why should I try to avert what I have
prayed for for years ? Mervin, I have not
sent for you to say farewell, or for any nonsense
of that sort. We have only met once
before, and I should despise you were you
to tell me any lies as to your sorrow because
I am dying. I don't want you to be

sorry. I am glad myself. But I like you
or what I have seen and heard of you —
as much as I can like anyone now, and I
want to "

He ceased speaking, overcome by some
sudden access of weakness or faintness. Fora
few minutes, which seemed to me centuries,
there was a silence in the room, broken only
by occasional movements of the dogs, who
were all watching us intently, and by the
ticking of the clock on the mantel-piece.

He lay back so quiet and still that I was
becoming alarmed, when his eyes opened.

Have I put it off too long? Oh ! no.
God would not be so cruel," he muttered ;
and then, turning his eyes on me, he said —

Do you remember what I said to you
the last time you came here?"

Yes."

'* How I told you that every one of our
family had been overwhelmed by the curse
• — that woman's influence has pursued and
wrecked the life of each one of us ?"

Perfectly. But, uncle, you are not
strong now. Let me come again tomorrow
and "

"To-morrow I shall be dead. Now —
now — if it be not already too late. Did
you quite believe all I said to you ? I, a
dying man, demand the truth. Did you
quite believe it, or did you think I had
lived alone and brooded until facts were
moulded to the family tradition I had
made ?"

'' Perhaps— I did, a little."

Of course. Well, she has been here,
and I told her. We agreed that you had
better know. You are in danger, or were.
Gertrude Monymusk "

*' Is nothing to me now," I interrupted ;
"nothing."

*' If that is so but yet — God ! give

me only one more half hour of voice ! — but

yet look me in the face and say she is

nothing to you."

Strange ! a fortnight before I could have

done this most honestly ; but that meeting
in Lambeth, that sight of her pure face and
sad eyes, had revived old feelings I had
thought dead. I remained silent.

As I thought. You have a rival?"

*' Scarcely. Lady Monymusk is married,
and "

Do not interrupt me. Listen ! I told
you that your father — my brother — died by
his own hand. I proved that to you. But
I did not tell you exactly why death was
less bitter to him than life."

'' You said that you both loved "

Yes, yes ; but I did not tell you her
name. The woman who deceived us both
was — your mother."

*' My mother ! But surely — they became
man and wife."

She deceived me for him — in time,
thank God ! She broke my heart, but she
left my honour intact. With him she ruined
both. The morning of the day on which
he killed himself he believed in her, loved

her, and was longing to go back to her and
begin the new and happy life his change of
fortune had made possible. On the evening
of that day he held in his hand proof
of her falsehood and of his own betrayal —
betrayal not only by her, but by the man
he had trusted above all others — and he
was right to die. How could he go back
and look upon the woman whom he loved
and loathed at the same time ; how could
he go back to be greeted by the caresses of
a son who was not his ?"

Which son was that ?"

My voice sounded strange and hoarse, and
one of the dogs gave a growl at — I suppose
its defiant sound.

The younger. One moment more,
and 1 have done. Mervin O'Connor, it
may be possible that the curse that hangs
over us can be averted or die out. Your
bright young life may be too strong for it,
but you are in mighty danger. I have
heard of this Gertrude Monymusk, and

when I contemplate your love for her the
horrible possibility that rises before me

is so Some water— quick — I am

choking."

I gave him water, and he lay back on the
pillow, with a long sigh.

*' And the name of this man — who —
God ! — my father ! if this be true. His
name !"

No answer came — the handsome features
lay calm and still — the clock ticked — the
dogs settled themselves to sleep. I rose,
after repeating my question once more, and
bent my head close to the pillow ; he woul(f
tell me nothing else — he was dead.

cii * # * # *

As I drove back to London that evening
I caught sight of a face in a passing cab so
like my mother's that, had I not known she
was in Ireland, I could have sworn it
belonged to her.

CHAPTER XXI.

MY MOTHER AND I.

]l TORE money! Fate seemed to have
•^*-*~ determined that, as my happiness
-diminished, my income should increase.
My uncle James left me all he had, and,
although his income was not a large one,
several judicious purchases of land about
London and his penurious habits combined
to swell the amount of the balance he left
behind him. But my affluence gave me no
pleasure. It was embittered by the intelligence
I had received from the dying man ;
I felt like an impostor, and every time that
I heard myself addressed by my name I

shuddered. To doubt what he had said
never occurred to rae ; you cannot doubt a
dying man, and at any time it was almost
impossible to doubt the word of James
O'Connor. Old friends of his youth, who
had utterly forgotten him in his retirement,
revived their recollection of the handsome,
dashing companion they had once envied
and admired, and came to Manor Lodge to
look again on his calm features, beautiful
in death. Wandsworth was much excited
by the funeral, and I was assured by the
undertaker that it was a great success. My
mother wrote a letter to me in answer to
mine informing her of my uncle's death ;
but there was a constraint in it which I did
not find it hard to understand. Nor did
the closing sentence much perplex me.

'' I suppose you saw him before he died ;
he was sure to send for you. Did he confide
anything to you — of his life, or of the
lives of others ? He was subject to strange
and painful hallucinations, as no doubt you

know. Probably as he neared his end these
took more definite shape. I am not generally
curious, but I beg you will humour meas
to this, and write to me exactly what he
told you, or come yourself. It is long since
you have been at Ballyconor, and it is right
for you to see your property and judge for
yourself as to the stewardship over it you
allow me to exercise. I feel, my dear boy,
that in some things as regards you I have
been wanting. Believe me, it has not been
for want of affection. But, as you know, a
great portion of my life ended with the life
of your brother. We are prone to value
most those we lose — unjustly enough, perhaps
— but there is no justice or logic in
grief."

My reply to the letter in which this passage
occurred was to go at once to Bally-honor.
Jim Leary was asked up to the
house the first night, and the dinner passed
off, if not very pleasantly, at any rate without

any disagreeable episode. But of course
a tete-h'teie with my mother could not long be
avoided, and, after breakfast next morning,
with, I could see, an evident effort, she
said,

^' Come into my room, Mervin ; we ought
to have plenty to say to one another*'

I followed without remark, my heart already
beating at the anticipation of what
we indeed might have to say to one another.


And without remark I stood in front of
my mother's chair, as she, ever dignified
and beautiful and graceful, attempted to
begin a conversation the outcome of which
might be so terrible to us both.

Mervin," at length she said, just as I
was beginning to think the clock was ticking
in the very centre of my brain, " you
were with poor James before he died ?"

** I was. He sent for me, and of course
I went."

Was he light-headed ? — I mean, did
he imagine all sorts of things — dreadful
things ?"

*' He told me things — dreadful things —
but he was perfectly sane. I do not think
he imagined anything."

My manner and voice must have been
very solemn, for I saw her glance at me
with sudden alarm — an alarm in which I
thought I could detect something of hatred.

He was a madman for half his life."

I do not think so. He had suffered a
great misfortune, and he brooded, but he
was as sane as you or I."

Again that covert glance at me. Then
she spoke in a clear ringing voice that
seemed to bid defiance to my suspicions, or
certainties —

And what form did his sanity — or, as I
call it, madness — take at the last ?"

'* Dying men speak the truth, and "

She interrupted me. " Do not be too
sure of that. A man who has, as you own,

brooded over an imagined wrong for years
is not likely to forget it at the last."

He forgot nothing — nothing."

My mother turned ashy pale, and her
hands moved convulsively to her throat
with that curious action we often observe in
people greatly moved.

'^ And you think yourself bound to believe
a madman because he left you his
money ?"

I believe my uncle told me the truth
and as to the reason you impute to me,
mother, you can scarcely know the meaning
of your taunt yourself. This I will say,
that, sooner than have heard what I did
hear from his lips, I would gladly have
given up every sixpence I have in the
world."

'enough !" and she rose with that splendid
scorn I had so often trembled before.
*' Enough ! I shall not stop to ask you
what libels he — my greatest enemy — invented
on his death-bed. I shall not at-vol.

n. E

tempt — as I might — to show you that your
mother's word is worthy to be weighed
against that of this madman. You have
never been a son to me !"

Mother !"

'* Never ! From the first you have thwarted
and suspected me. From the first I have
foreseen that you were destined to supplant
my first-born, my Arthur, my beloved boy !
I have long known what was the barrier
that lay between us — your envy of the love
I gave to him."

No, mother, no ! Even now, with the
reason I have for something stronger than
blame "

Reason !"

She stood proudly before me, as Marie
Antoinette may have stood before her lowborn
judges.

^' Yes, reason enough, God knows. Even
now, I say, I am willing to give you all the
respect a son owes to his mother — yes, and
all the love too."

She waved me aside with a scornful
gesture.

'' No, that you have never given me."

"The respect I have — I do still. But
the love ? How could I when I was repulsed
at every moment ? You have never
been a mother to me, and I "

'' Must this painful interview be prolonged
?" she exclaimed, impatiently. " 1 know
this is your house — all — all is yours ; but
can you not shorten it ? Tell me what you
think you know, and let me go."

My house, mother, is your house. What
I have lately learned you know. I will not
nay, I cannot — put it into words. Have
you no spark of affection left for me — me
whom you have so deeply wronged ?"

I — wronged you — you — the rich man
standing in your dead brother's place —
enjoying your wealth? Wronged you?"

'' Yes ; what is wealth to me when I
know all ? You have wronged me only ina
less degree than you wronged my father."

E 2

lUNlVERSITY OF
Illinois LIBRARY

I would have recalled the words directly
they were spoken. Such a look of despairing
rage as came upon her face I never had
seen on mortal face before.

Oh, God !" she cried, raising her arms
in the air — theatrically, a calm bystander
might have said ; but strong emotion is
generally what we call theatrical. "To be
punished like this, when I have suffered
so long — so long ! Mervyu O'Connor, you
shall say no more to me. Give me time to
seek a place of hiding — of hiding from you
as much as from the world. Make your
story public — the shame "

It was my turn to interrupt.

Remember whose shame it is ! Do we
not share it, the innocent and the guilty,
mother ?"

Even as I spoke the reaction came ; she
sank down into a chair and burst into a
passion of tears.

"Mother," and I knelt at her feet and
tried to draw her hands from her face —

*^ mother, will you not let my love console
for the past ? Does not the sharing of this
secret lighten it for you ? You cannot believe
that another reproach will ever pass
my lips. Let the future atone for both of
us."

Her sobs ceased. She looked in my
eyes, and I saw that she seemed to have
aged by ten years in that moment of
humiliation.

'' Mervin, can you still " She hesitated,
and let me possess myself of both her

hands.

«
Mother — be my mother — let me love

you as a son should. I only ask one thing

before we bury all this — that you should

tell me the name of "

But I spoke to deaf ears. Even as I was
speaking, her eyes closed, and she fell back
in a faint.

It was long before we could bring her
to, and then she was too weak to speak ;
and I left her, leaving a message to say

that I wished to see her again as soon as
she was well. In a few hours I received
this note : —

*' The only condition on which I can remain
in your house another hour is that
you promise me never to revert to the subject
of to-day's conversation. Unless I have
your promise before this evening, 1 shall,
ill as I am, go by the night mail to Dublin,
and find some corner in which to die unnoticed."


What could I say ? I promised, and ina
week left Bally honor, leaving her still
prostrate, and so changed in manner towards'
me that I could scarcely believe she
was the same proud woman I had known
all my life.

All her jealousy of my legitimate interference
with the estate had vanished, and
her humility and timidity in my presence
were touching to see. Dear old Jim Leary
was more puzzled than he had ever been
before.

What's come to her Ladyship, Mervin ?"
he asked, as he said good-bye to me in the
hall. *' She's as sweet as buttermilk now —
never hints that I'm an old fool, and can't
keep my accounts correctly — although, begorra
! she's not far wrong on occasions.
And when I asked her yesterday about the
thinning in the plantations, she told me
that she had nothing to do With it, and that
it was yourself that must settle it. Oh ! it's
sad to see a fine masterful woman take that
way. Do you think she's failing, Mervin ?"

There were tears in the honest old man's
eyes as I answered —

"• She has had a shock, and perhaps she
has grown weary of doing my work, Jim."

"Well, it'll be a good thing if she can
make you give up swelling the crowd of
absentee landlords with which Ireland
swarms. You'll come and live here now —
eh, Mervin ?"

*' No — I think not. You must look after
everything for a time, at any rate — always

obeying my mother implicitly if she chooses
to give an order. And remember that I
am rich now, and that, if I ever hear of any
tenants of mine being in want, I'll — well,
ril cut off your fox-hunting, old fellow."

In want, is it ? There are only three
things the tenants on the Ballyconor estate
want now. One is yourself home for
good "

'^ And the others?"

"And the others are a little reduction
in the price and a little addition to the
strength of the whisky at the sheen
houses."

So I got upon my car and drove away
from the house the owner of which I was
called, as it seemed to me, in bitter mockery
of my birth, with my brain still seething
from the result of my dead uncle's revelation.


CHAPTER Xxii

BROODING.

''TTTHO was that fellow speaking to you
* in the morning-room just now'*
That ! Oh, Mervin O'Connor."
Is it ? What's the matter with him ?
He looks very sulky."

Then he only looks what he is. I can
scarcely believe it is the same fellow. I
give you my word that a short time ago,
when he came back from Canada, after
dropping in for old Gilbeau's money, he
was the most cheery, open-handed fellow

you could well find, and now "

Now he certainly don't seem that."

Seem it ! No, indeed ! He scarcely
ever speaks, and when he does it is only
to say something so infernally disagreeable
that he had better have held his tongue.
They say he grudges every penny he spends,
and all his pals "

Abuse him behind his back," said I,
rising from the sofa in the Club smoking-room
where I was hidden in the gloom.
*' But then they ought to take care it's a
good long way behind his back."

My friend — for the speaker was by way
of having that privilege — muttered something
unintelligible and got out of the room
as well as he could, probably congratulating
himself that he had no tail to indicate his
moral collapse ; and I sat down again to
think over what he had said. It was true. I
felt that. Every month that had elapsed since
my uncle's death, and the revelation that
had accompanied it, had added to the gloom
that was closing in upon my life. It is not

rare for illegitimate sons to have a morbid
horror of illegitimacy, and to me my false
position — for which there was no possible
remedy — was daily and hourly torture. To
give up my rights to the O'Connor name
and property would have proclaimed my
mother's shame ; and, besides, there was
absolutely no relation whom I could by any
possibility imagine myself to be defrauding
of his just rights; and yet to myself I was
an arch impostor, and every time I heard
my own name 1 winced with shame and
humiliation. That they called me stingy I
now, for the first time, became aware ; but
here they were wrong. I simply spent no
money because it gave me no pleasure to
spend it. Pleasure among my fellows I
could not take, and any ostentation that
would have been natural to my position I
shrank from as only an aggravation of my
innocent imposture. I felt doomed to masquerade
through life in a character to which

1 had no real right — to assume a part
waking and sleeping for which I had a
horror.

And so I sat alone and brooded, and
nursed bitter thoughts which now and then
broke through the silence that was becoming
habitual to me, and completed the work,
which that taciturnity had begun, of making
me thoroughly unpopular among my contemporaries.
It seemed so short a time
since I had believed in everything and
-everybody ; when to me my mother, if
somewhat cold and proud, was the embodiment
of female virtue ; when Gertrude
Monymusk was the incarnation of softness
and purity ; when Bayley North was that
priceless thing— a true friend ; and now all
my idols were shattered. One was the
cause of my undying shame, and the other
two had deceived and betrayed me. How
could I live on ? I saw strong men sicken
and die, men longing for life and its pleasures,
and I, who prayed each night that forme

another morning might not dawn, could
not so much as have a headache. The
heartache — which will not kill the body —
absorbed all other disease. I felt that I
was doomed to drag out a long, useless,
purposeless existence, always alone with my
secret of shame. Had I been able to confide
in anyone, it would no doubt have
done me much good. A sturdy, sensible
friend might have reasoned or laughed me
out of my gloomy fancies ; but to me, for
my mother's sake, silence seemed inevitable,
and a grief borne alone is always trebly
heavy.

That " imitation " of happiness which, it
is said, money can always bring was not
purchasable in my case. The income I
enjoyed was a nuisance to me in that it
entailed some thought and arrangement,
and still more because it almost forced me to
turn my attention to charity on an organized
plan. And, after a time — a whole year or
so of existence rather than life — it did so

force rae ; and before long I began to get
interested in my work, and to understand a
little of the inner life of those whose outward
appearance was, to a casual observer,
against their possessing such a thing as an
inner life at all.

One thing especially struck rae amongst
the very poor — their immense contempt for
death. Not because they looked upon it as
the crossings of the river which divides
dark life from bright eternity, as the snapping
of the chain that bound them to drudgery,
and penury, and squalor, but simply
because it seemed to them an every-day and
not particularly interesting occurrence which
came to all, and was, therefore, not worthy
of special remark or thought. When I remembered
Lord Dives and his medical attendant,
and his careful diet, and his solemn
looks when the death of one of his contemporaries
appeared in the Times, I could
not help looking with some respect upon
Bill Sides. Every way as big a blackguard

as his Lordship, lying there upon his straw
palHasse, and smoking his last pipe hastily,
so that he might have the full benefit of the
last pennyworth of baccy ere he went where
probably there would be no more smoking
of the baccy kind at least — he had no
more philosophy in him than Lord Dives
himself; no views as to a future state; he
knew he was dying, and he wasn't afraid,
because it was what he had always known
he should do — perhaps the only certainty in
his haphazard life — and because he was not
given to be afraid.

Lord Dives, when his time comes, lying*
on his comfortable spring mattress, with
doctors consulting, and relations simulating
tears over him, will not face the great certainty
with half the gentleman-like ease of
Bill Sides, even though he may have the
sleekest of parsons to whisper in his ear
that soon he will be in Paradise.

In my visits to the slums I occasionally
heard the name of Mrs. Mayne — whom I

knew to be Lady Monymusk — mentioned,
and always with the tenderest love and reverence.
And once we met for a moment.
She was praying at the bedside of a dying
child in a hospital, and, as I looked at her,
I found it hard to believe that she was —
what she was.

CHAPTER XXIII.

ONE DOUBT IS DISPELLED.

That she was ! Yes ; could there be
' a doubt? We have all read of the
lady who was justly indignant with her
lover because he trusted his eyesight before
her word ; but this was in Arcadian days.
Now we believe everything we see, and
most things that we hear concerning a
lady ; and I certainly had seen enough to
justify me in not rating Lady Monymusk's
character very highly. Over Bayley North's
chambers door might have been written,
All good name abandon ye who enter
here." To know him intimately was a

VOL. II. F

liberal education in that knowledge a woman
should be ignorant of; to attend the
little tea-parties in the Albany was to descend
a good many steps of the staircase that leads
to social reprobation ; to be present at one
of the suppers there was to have reached
the very bottom flight — to be left howling
in the black abyss of social oblivion. They
were agreeable enough, too, those little
gatherings after the play, when champagne
and oysters went down, and spades were
called spades in a way that should have
delighted a philosopher — only philosophers
were never invited (unless, indeed, the nil
admirer school of young clothes-pegs is not
the truest school of philosophy after all);
and men talked men's talk with the advantage
that they were answered — also in men's
talk, but — in women's voices ; when a club
anecdote gained a double zest as it came
from a pair of red and smiling lips, and a
broad allusion was broadened by the pretty
shrug of the white shoulders that accompanied

it. Pleasant enough they were.
The best men — Bayley North was very
particular about his men — and the worst
women of Society. What could have been
a better combination ?

But why am I writing in this fashion —
and of him ? Let me get on. There is not
much more to tell, and all the attempted
jocularity and sarcasm in the world will not
render its telling a whit less bitter. Who
will finish the story, if it is ever finished ?
Why am I writing it ? Is there a moral in
it? Perhaps; in most things there is a
moral; it all depends whether we know-how
to look for it. But in my case I
scarcely know what good the publication of
this true tale of a bit of a life, this story of
remorseless fate — for I believe my uncle
James is right, after all — can do. If things
were useful according to their difficulty,
this should be a work destined to raise me
to immortality ; for none can ever know
how my heart has ached as I have recalled

f2

the past and set down here, in light tones,
and having regard to the scenes and feelings
I was describing, the events of my short
career. It would have been untrue, in art
at least, had I allowed the gloom that now
wraps its close to obscure the bright commencement
of that career. Few men are
fatalists until Fate has overtaken them.
Presentiments are rarer than people suppose,
although liver complaint and indigestion
sometimes take the form of dire prognostication.


What she was ! The more I brooded in
my self-inflicted unpopularity and solitude,
the more my thoughts reverted to that sweet
smile which had, while I believed in Gertrude
Monymusk, been to me as the smile
of an angel of light. The thoughts are apt
to become very despotic if allowed too much
sway, and, do what I would, mine continually
reverted to that happy time, and insisted
on skipping the intermediate days of awakening

from the dream which was so full of
boyish innocence and credulity. The discovery
that — whatever her failings — she had
at least the virtue that covers a multitude of
sins, was rather a shock to the resolution I
had, after much heart-torturing, formed
concerning her ; and it certainly seemed
hard to believe that a woman who was as
she was could vary her visits to the Albany
by visits to the poor. Still, as I observed
with my crude philosophy, it was a common
thing for people to — as Butler says —

Compound for sins they are inclined to,
By damning those they have no mind to."

And, like the gentleman whose magnitude
•of sinning during the week might be accurately
gauged by the fervour of his praying
in church on Sundays, it was quite possible,
thought I, that she made up by
charitable acts in the slums for peccadilloes
in St. James's.

But, let her reasons be what they might,
one thins was certain, that I could not get

her out of my mind ; and, the longer I sat
still and thought, the stronger became the
conviction that the boy-love had, despite
suspicion, despite absence, grown into a real
passion. I idealised her — not her as I
thought I knew her to be in my sane moments
— but as I had once dreamed her to
be — a type of pure womanhood. Naturally
poetic in temperament, I invented a splendid
fancy — I raised a deity for myself, and I
worshipped it day and night.

I will not apologise for having thus, perhaps,
lengthily described my feelings, for I
want my readers to understand accurately
what was the state of my mind when I was
sitting one evening in my room at Manor
Lodge.

Soon after my uncle's death, his solicitors
had applied to me as to what was to be
done with the house. I had no object in
being near the haunts of my fellow Clubmen,
so I sold the house in Park Lane, and
went to live at Wandsworth : a second

edition of its late owner — even to the dogs
(which I kept) — and the surly old servant,
whom I permitted to stay on as a sort of
pensioner and doer of odd jobs. There was
a rather curiously-selected number of books
in the room where I had first seen ray uncle
which was called the library — mostly
bearing on different forms of superstition ;
and the perusal of them, as I sat alone at
night and longed to feel sleepy, as I used to
feel in the old days, when to sleep was to
forget nothing worse than debt, when to
wake was to wake to hope, did not do much
towards extracting rae from the morbid state
into which I had fallen.

One evening — in the depth of winter — I
was sitting in the long, dark room, lit only
by the reading-lamp on the table by my
side, when, looking up, I saw a woman
standing opposite. So absorbed had I been
in reading that I heard no footfall, no noise
of the door opening. I put down my book
I remember how calm I felt, though

there was a curious tingling sensation in my
veins — and I said, fully knowing what the
answer would be —

Who are you ?"

I knew what the answer would be. She
was dead or dying, and had come to me at
last, purified by death ; our love sanctified
at last, now that all grossness had been
purged from it.

Who are you ?"

She put up her veil, and I saw the features
as I so well knew them ; only the
expression now was one of terror — of
mighty terror.

Gertrude Monymusk !

I sat still, in a trance of happiness, and I
said —

"I knew you would come to me at last,
Gertrude."

She did not stir. She only looked at me,
and the horror in her eyes seemed to burn
in, through mine, to my very soul.

''I have watched and waited for you— at

least, not I, but my heart. Only in death
could we love. In life you betrayed me —
betrayed your husband — all — but now — "

Mervin !"

The tones in which she exclaimed my
name awoke me. It was Lady Monymusk
herself — no spirit — that stood before me.

She went on, still standing there in front
of me, still with that horror in her great
eyes —

"Mervin O'Connor, I come to you to
save me. I am in terror of my life."

My senses had returned, and I placed a
chair for her, into which she sank with a
gesture of infinite weariness.

"Your life?"

Yes. Will you not help me ? You —
cared for me once."

'' Lady Monymusk, I — but tell me your
trouble. I can at least give advice."

I want more than that. Advice is useless
when action is wanted. I am in the
power of an unscrupulous man. I have

offended him ; he will use his power this
very day ; and I shall be killed — I shall be
killed !"

It was real physical terror that had seized
her. I could see that as she covered her
face with her hands and trembled throughout
her whole frame.

I made the speech of a scoundrel ; but
remember — I had loved her — I loved her
still.

'* Surely some one else — surely your
friend, Colonel North "

'rit is he who has me in his power."

Again my evil spirit possessed me.

"A power of that kind is only to be
charmed by kindness."

She laid her hand upon my arm. Trembling
as it was, I think its touch made me
tremble the most.

You believe, " she said, very slowly,
"that I ever — cared for — that man?"

I was walking down the Albany one
evening "

Yes, yes. I ought to have — but how
could I explain ? Hear me now, and if I
stop do not speak. I must put it all as
clearly as I can. Look in my face, and
then disbelieve me."

I looked at her, and every word she
uttered was to me confirmation strong as
proof of Holy Writ.

Colonel North has known me since first
I came out in London. You think you
know him, but you have no idea of what he
can be when he has determined on conquering
the heart of a woman. With me he
failed — failed utterly and entirely. Something
in ray nature rebelled against his
hardly-veiled cynicism and contempt for all
that I had been taught to look upon as
good and true. His intellect now and then
took a hold upon mine, but of love for him
I never had a particle. I swear it to you.
My father and mother were poor. They
had made great sacrifices, and pinched
themselves and my sister to give me a

season in London. To go back with them
after the success I may without vanity tell
you I made seemed ingratitude — unkindness.
I had several offers. One was from a man
to whom — no matter now. I think you
told me you had heard the story. Of the
others, Lord Monymusk's seemed the best —
the most acceptable. He at any rate loved
me devotedly, and I knew I could make
him a good wife. I have made him a goodwife."


From the moment she said those words,
looking in my face, all my doubts of her
ended for ever.

'but I never could love him, though I
prayed each night that I might be led to do
so. He was kind, rather suspicious, and
capable of anything should there have been
any real reason for suspicion. But there
was none, until some silly rumour — totally
without foundation — reached his ears. I
cared for the man as much as I care for
one of mv own footmen. He was a well-dressed,

chattering creature, who called my
carriage and danced beautifully One night
Monymusk came to a ball when I had danced
a good many times with that man. That
night, when we were alone, and the rest of
the house asleep, he tried to strangle me."

'^ Good God !"

*' I never knew how I escaped ; but, half
dead, I did manage to leave the room, with
him pursuing me, and to rouse the servants.
My poor husband was a raving lunatic, and
it took three of them to keep him from my
throat. There is no use in dwelling on
what followed. I refused to seek the protection
I might. I persuaded him, when he
became calmer, of the injustice of his suspicions,
and I made myself responsible —
even to his own relations, who counselled a
private asylum — for his actions. More than
once in the next few days the madness — for
such it was — burst out ; but I never was
again in the danger of that awful night.
More than once I have had to leave London

suddenly with him, and go anywhere — to
some wild country, even — to allay his mad
suspicions. Mervin, my life has been a

terrible one But, no ! do not say a

word of sympathy. I dare not break down
until I have told you all." ■

I checked the words I was about to say,
and she proceeded —

"Then at last, longing for sympathy —
for a little of that love which was denied
me — I met a man who — who, in short, was
capable, I thought, of understanding me.
One is not always mistress of one's own
thoughts; one ought to be mistress of one's
pen. I committed a great folly. Though
repulsing at its outset the declaration I saw
trembling on his lips, I wrote to a woman —
one I thought my dearest friend — one whom
I have loaded with benefits — and opened
my heart — my whole heart — to her. She
kept the letter; why, I cannot tell — probably
not for any reason ; and then Bayley

North became her friend. She confided
everything to him, and one day showed
him this letter, which he easily gained
possession of. Then began my long agone
He threatened me. Frightened as I was,
I dared to defy him, and told him to show
the letter, as he threatened, to my husband.
At last he said that he had changed his
mind, and would give up the letter ; but on
one condition — that I came to his chambers
to take it. I went."

And that was when "

That was the only time. When I came
he laughed at me. I prayed to him, and he
laughed the more. His reason for having
brought me there was only to gall my
pride, he said. I left him — without my
letter — with the sword still hanging over my
head. And each day it has come nearer to
descending. Bayley North has lately taken
every opportunity of going to places I am
obliged to go to, and what he thinks his love

for me has increased. Only to-day he
came to me and swore that unless I — you
can guess, Mervin — Oh ! that I should have
to say such things to you ! — he would this
very night — he is dining at our house, my
husband having lately taken a fancy to him —
he would this very night show him that
letter in my hand, and my husband will kill
me ! What can I do ?"

Notwithstanding her story, a sense of
ineffable joy had stolen over me, and I
asked her —

'* Tell me the name of him whom that
letter was about."

She hesitated — a blush spread over her
pale cheeks.

Tell me, Gertrude ; you do not think I
would take advantage of your confidence.
I believe every word of what you have said.
Only tell me."

*' Will you forgive me ?" That was her
only answer in words, but her eyes spoke
all.

Thank God that in that wild moment of
mad happiness I restrained myself. I lifted
her hand to my lips. That was all.

Then, after a pause, she spoke again —

'' What can I do ?"

^' He shall never show that letter."

*' But how can he be prevented ? I know
his determination. His former fancy has
been succeeded by something very like
passion; he will not hesitate at any
revenge."

He shall never show that letter."

^' You can stop him ?"

"I will kill him first."

She came close up to me — her breath
was on my cheek, her eyes looked into my
heart.

Do you know why in my mortal terror
for I am afraid to die, and this would
mean death — I came to you, Mervin ?"

I do know, Gertrude. I do know ; and
I thank you."

In another half-hour she was in one

VOL. II. G

hansom proceeding to Hertford Street,
whilst I in another made the best of my
way to the Albany.

CHAPTER XXIV.

AT THE ALBANY.

Tapley NORTH'S chambers were
-■-^ situated on the second floor of a
house in the Albany. Very comfortable
they were — two large rooms adjoining one
another, one used as a sitting and one as a
dining-room, and a bedroom at the back
almost as large ; the whole being entered
through a neat little hall, with box-room
opening off it. The owner was celebrated
among his friends — even his discriminating
friends — for his taste and knowledge of
art; not the sham thing called 'high art"
by a set of ignorant ladies and gentlemen

g2

who, unable to attain distinction in any-other
way, have invented a jargon of which
outsiders can scarcely, not understanding it,
detect all the folly ; but art, true and real,
if not particularly high ; art in its relation to
everyday life and comfort ; art which
followed no cut-and-dried rule of self-constituted
professors, and yet which aimed
solely at harmony, and strained not at all
at astonishing or bewildering the nervous
spectator. There was not an article of
furniture in his rooms that was either uncomfortable,
unfitted to fulfil its purpose, or
unsightly.

Very often the fitness of things constitutes
their beauty, and a hat-stand, modelled on
the very best and most "chaste" Chippendale
principles, would be repellent if it
refused comfortably to hang hats.

It requires very great devotion at the art-antipater
shrine now erected in our fashionable
circles to be able to enjoy a chair in
which sitting up straight is only just less excruciating

than leaning back ; but then the
devotees of our " empty day " are very
devoted, provided only the object of their
adoration is as empty as the day and as their
own heads.

But I see that I am wasting time on the
threshold of the end of this story, hesitating
to tell what I have set myself to tell,

moralizing over furniture when To

resume.

I reached the Albany, as I had calculated,
just in time. North's servant told me he
was still at home, although his brougham
had arrived at the Burlington Gardens
entrance to take him out to dinner. The
honest fellow grinned with delight as he
ushered me in.

You haven't been to see us for an age,
Sir Mervin — so glad as I was, too, to hear
you had come back from foreign parts — and
looking so well, sir, too, if I may take the
liberty of saying so."

I waited a few moments in the sitting-room,

where the fumes of the last cigarette
its owner had smoked before dressing — how
well I remembered the long talks we had
over that last cigarette when I had come to
fetch him for some amusement we had
planned together — still hung in the air.
There was a litter of little ladylike notes on
the round table in the corner ; a mass of
dinner and ball invitations jostled each
other on the glass over the mantel-piece; a
great engagement-book lay open, with its
pages crowded with cabalistic signs legible
only to their writer ; one or two cards
requesting Colonel North's attendance at
this or that Club Committee ; opera ivories ;
tickets of admission to private racecourse-stands
; photographs of great ladies jumbled
up with tantalizing presentments of stars of
the drama ; a few receipts ; a good many unpaid
bills; a six-and-a-half-sized glove; a fan ;.
a fresh bouquet, destined before long to be in
the hands of some blushing and delighted
damsel; the last success in literature, opened

at the title-page, with the words ^' from
the author " written there : all the litter
around spoke the busy man of pleasure, to
whom every moment is forced to bring
some excitement, some new interest. It
may seem strange that I should remark all
this, but there are moments in our lives
which we feel are just about to bring forth
some great crisis, when we remark everything,
each detail of what is around, and
never forget the most trivial circumstances.

The last time I had been in the room
was when I had looked up to Bayley
North as the embodiment of that fashion
and success towards which nearly all young
men, when first turned loose in Society,
strive. His kindness to me had at first
completely turned my head ; and when I,
as I often did, heard tales of his cynicism
and calm brutality, I was glad to think that
I knew the man as he was ; that I, for some
reason I could not fathom, had penetrated
behind the outer skin of worldliness, and

could gauge the worth of the generosity and
kindness that really existed under the
apparently impervious exterior. Not a
word of really bad advice had he ever
given me. I had learned from him much
that was useful to me in life. Although so
mistrustful himself, he had not taught me to
mistrust — for, as he had often said to me,
*' What would I not give to believe ! There
is the one great change from happiness in
life to the reverse — the moment when one
ceases to believe. Go on trusting everyone
as long as you can, ray dear boy. Draw
upon that account as long as the authorities
will cash the cheques. It is the great
pleasure of existence." Then his deed — not
his word — had broken off, with my belief
in himself and in Gertrude, much of my
belief in others. And now — now that I
knew how foolish part of my doubts had
been — T had come to him again, this time
to avenge a wrong, to extract a reparation,
or else — to execute a vengeance.

I had no settled plan of action. But never
for a moment did I doubt my eventual success.

The door leading from the bed-room
opened, and he entered — as perfectly
dressed, as sarcastically calm as ever.

*' Johnson told me you were here. I am
sorry to have kept you waiting."

^' It doesn't matter. Thanks, I won't sit
down. Colonel North, I have something
serious to say to you."

*' Well, Sir Mervin," he used my title
with a slight accent of sarcasm — good-natured,
but certainly there; "please sayjt
as quickly as may be. You know I detest
putting my hostess out, and getting cold soup
besides cold looks, and it is just a quarter to
eight. I must be in Hertford Street in ten
minutes."

Saying this, he glanced at the clock, and
sat down, in that lolling attitude I knew so
well, in an arm-chair.

I thought for a moment to arrange my
words, and then beiran —

I had an interview to-day with Lady
Monymusk.''

Indeed 1 1 thought that you and she
were — not exactly friends — nowT The stress
he laid upon the last word would have fired
ray resentment at any other time. Now
my errand was paramount.

''I once thought Lady Monymusk the
best and purest of God's creatures. You
know why I ceased to think so."

I remember you told me something —
something about her calling on me, wasn't
it ? Will you touch that bell ? Thanks."

I complied without thinking, and had to
wait while he gave his servant orders to
go out and give some message to his coachman.


*' But I have to-day heard from her own
lips the whole story. I know the truth,
Colonel North."

He laughed, but it seemed to me the
merriment was not quite real.

"The idea of a woman telling the truth

about herself! You have grown younger
and more credulous since we last inet^
Mervin."

*' I believe her. That is enough, Colonel
North."

He bowed his head mockingly.

Very pretty. I wish I could believe a
woman. Well ?"

I know why she came here. I know
what the cowardly weapon is you threaten
her with. I know you to be a scoundrel !"

He started to his feet with a oath, and I
was prepared for a blow ; but in a moment
his mood changed.

Go on — go on ; I will hear even that
from you."

Why did not the accent of his voice ashe
said those last two words warn me ?
But even had I been warned I think I
should have acted as I did. Gertrude's
honour and safety were and must be first
with me.

What is a man who, when repulsed by

a woman, treacherously obtains evidence
against her which he knows to be false, but
which he also knows can ruin her ? Is he
not a scoundrel, sir ?"

I cannot waste time on speculative
moralising. Your parables or riddles are
no doubt capital, but I object to them when
I am anxious to go to dinner."

'' You have threatened this very night to
show that letter you so infamously obtained
to Lord Monymusk — is that your intention?"

As you got your information from that
infallible source — Gertrude -''

Lady Monymusk, sir."

Well, the Viscountess Monymusk, if weare
to stand on so much ceremony. I say,
as you have evidently got your information

from her, it must be correct, and I

think you know I am not given to say what
I do not mean."

"And you dare go to this woman's
house, and sit at her table "

"Pooh! By law it is her husband's

house — her husband's table. He is a great
friend of mine. Surely it is the duty of a
friend to warn him against betrayal, and, if
necessary, to prove that his warnings are
not causeless."

As he spoke he touched the breast-pocket
of his coat meaningly, and I knew where
the letter was.

'the proof is worth nothing. You
know it is worth nothing."

We won't enter into my feelings.
Whether Lord Monyrausk will take that
view is the question in point. I hope ,he
may, for I am always for hushing up
domestic scandals."

His careless tone had nearly by this time
succeeded in driving me out of the calm I
had schooled myself to preserve.

"Take care ! Do you know why I have
come here — what I have sworn ? I have
come to receive from you the letter. I
have sworn that neither you nor I leave
this house until that is done."

'quite a knight-errant of the Middle
Ages. Only we don't live in the Middle
Ages, and you are an anachronism. The
ten minutes I could spare you are over. I
shouldn't like to be rude to Lady Mony-musk,
especially on this occasion, and keep
her Ladyship waiting for dinner. So good
evening, Sir Mervin O'Connor."

He rose, and I stood before him. We
were evenly matched, but youth and condition
were on my side.

"You do not go unless you give it
me."

He fronted me with a calm disdain that
was almost grand.

"You forget, my friend, that there are
such things as policemen in this civilized
city. As I said before, we are not in the
Middle Ages. Possibly you might give mea
black eye before I reached that bell, but
most assuredly you would spend your evening
in a police-station. I must decline, just
before dinner, to indulge in fisticuffs or

other barges tricks. You have your
remedy, if you think you can find a friend
who will agree with you that you may
shoot at me for not parting with my
property. Let me pass."

I tell you that I will have that letter."

And I tell you that I decline to make
you a present of it."

"Then I will take it."

As we spoke he had moved on towards
the hall door, and I with him. It was open,
and before I could do anything he had
stepped out on the landing, and stood at
the top of the stone steps. It was dark, for
the gaslight was on the next floor., Then
I seized him by the coat-collar. My object
was not, as he supposed, to administer chastisement
to him. I knew where the letter
was, and as he prepared to meet a blow I
feigned at his face I plunged my hand into
his breast-pocket, and, before he could prevent
me, had drawn it therefrom.

Then the struggle began in earnest. He

was nearly as strong as I, and I now remained
on the defence, while he fought
desperately to regain the crumpled envelope.
At last, in warding him off, I dropped it,
and it fluttered down upon the second step
below us. Our struggle had made no
noise, and we were both of us too much out
of breath to speak now. There was the
letter — who would pick it up ? He dragged
me gradually down — first one step, then
another. He seemed to be possessed by the
strength of a madman. I was for the moment
powerless. He pressed me with all
his might against the wall, and as I fought
myself free, and managed to rise up from
the stooping position into which I had got.
I saw that he had nearly succeeded — that
the letter was almost in his grasp !

Almost, but not quite ! As he stooped
down to pick it up I put all my strength
into one push. He lost his footing, missed
both me and the balusters with his hands,
which as he fell he flung up. There was a

second's silence, and, in the darkening gloom
of the stairs beneath me, a crash, and then
again silence. I picked up the letter and
hurried down.

For a moment I thought he was dead. I
saw blood trickling down ,his white forehead,
and his eyes were closed. I raised
him up and he groaned.

"Are you much hurt?"

He tried to speak, failed, and then articulated,
with difficulty,

I don't know. Go, go ! It isn't your
fault, at any rate. You have won. If I
die — remember — it was an accident — alio
one knows. Johnson is outside — no one
knows. Go quickly — go !"

"I will send Johnson in, but let me get
you upstairs first."

No ; Johnson will come back. Go, I
say ! I have a right to command you. Go
and know nothing of this !"

I cannot go until "

I have never asserted my authority be-vol.

II. H

fore — but — you cannot refuse once to obey
your father !"

My father !"

Go ! — it is ray last request !"

I obeyed. Mad with horror, I obeyed.
1 flew down the Albany to Piccadilly, not
knowing what I did ; for hours I roamed
wildly about the streets, the passers-by
turning to stare at rae as if I were a ghost.

It must have been early morning as I,
still in a dream of horror, passed by the
door of a Club to which I belonged. Two
men, both of whom I knew, were coming
out. They had apparently met at the door,
and were lighting their cigars.

Terrible news about poor Bayley !
Those beastly dark staircases are very
dangerous. Never spoke again, I am told."

Yes, he did. I saw Carter, who saw
his servant. He just managed to say he
slipped as he was hurrying down, and that
Mervin O'Connor had left him five minutes
before."

*' Rum chap that O'Connor. Poor old
Bayley ! Well, one must die somehow, after
all. He had a jolly life of it. Good night."

The next thing I knew was that I was in
my bed-room at Manor House, with a doctor
leaning over me, and saying that the crisis
was over.

h2

CHAPTER XXV.

AND LAST.

rpHE crisis, as the doctor meant it, was
-■- over ; but the real crisis — the crisis in
that part of life which is beyond the skill of
the medical profession — had but just begun.
As I slowly came back to full consciousness
I saw written everywhere, in letters of
blood, on the wall opposite my bed, on the
white ceiling, in the bit of sky I could see
through the window, the words, *' You have
killed your father !" And I was not so
innocent of parricide as it seemed. Something
had warned me all along ; there had
been an indefinable tie between me and

Bayley North, a sentiment which was, in
the days when we were together, stronger
than mere friendship. Even when I had
bearded him in his room, and denounced
him as a scoundrel, I felt that there was
some reason — mysterious to me, and yet
not altogether surprising — which accounted
for the absence of the resentment he would
have so quickly shown had another man
said those Avoids to him. Even in my
direst fury against the man, I had been half
angry with myself because that fury did not
seem quite commensurate with his offence.

Had I heard the story of his misdeeds
from any woman but Gertrude Monymusk
had he injured anyone but her — I should
have conquered my hatred of meanness
and cruelty, and been friends with him
still.

Whether or not there is such a thing as
^' natural affection" I do not know. But I
do know that now he had died by my hand
even my love for Gertrude was almost

swallowed up in my remorse for having
been the instrument of a just vengeance.

It was some time before I was sufficiently
recovered to be allowed to talk and to read
my letters and the newspapers. Best for
the brain, said the doctor, was the requisite.
As if my brain now ever could rest again !
It was strange, as I lay there and thought,
and thought, till I felt I was going mad, how
at last my mind utterly threw off all control,
and seemed, against my will, to revel in the
most grotesque, even comic, incidents and
imaginations. One day the old servant
came and found me laughing loudly at some
conceit that had occurred to me, and his
astonishment knew no bounds. He did not
know that there is a state of despair in
which all feelings, real feelings are merged .

Those on the surface are allowed to go of
themselves, and indicate the truth beneath
as the ticking of a clock indicate the time
of day.

Eagerly, once it was permitted, I read

my letters. They were all uninteresting,
save two. These were from Gertrude.
The first was dated the day after I had seen
her —

I write the first thing in the morning.
Oh, Mervin, you have saved me ! He did
not come. How did you prevent him ? At
any rate, I feel that you have saved me.
How can I thank you ? I have no way.
None at all — none. And, Mervin, I know
you well enough to know you would
rather I had none. In this world I fear
hearts have little place. But friendship is
permitted. I shall see you soon ?

Gertrude."

Then, in a hurried postscript —

''I have just seen the papers. What a
dreadful thing ! Had you seen him ? Even
after what he was to me, I could not help
grieving. Was it Providence ?"

The next letter was dated a week later.

"I have been hoping to see you, Mervin.
Yet I cannot complain of your absence.
You probably may have, as I have, some
suspicion as to that poor misguided man's
death.

I shuddered as I read —

I see by the inquest that he told his
servant he had just seen you. You think
he may have been so agitated by that interview
that he missed his footing ; or do you

think But no, Mervin, m}^' friend,

men do not kill themselves in such a way ;
and, as to the first theory, it is equally baseless.
The bit of orange-peel on which he
slipped would have been there anyhow, and
from my knowledge of Bayley North, he
was not a man to be agitated by anything.
This has been a terrible experience in our
lives. Let us forget it."

Forget it !

I turned to the papers, and found the
account of the inquest. Here it is —

An inquest was held yesterday at

on the body of Colonel Bayley North, who
was found dead on the staircase outside his
chambers in the Albany, Piccadilly. The
principal witness examined was George
Johnson, his valet, who deposed : —

* I am body-servant to the deceased,
and have been so for the last seven years.
On Tuesday last he came home, as usual to
him, at about seven o'clock. He seemed in
his usual spirits. I remember he called mea
d — d fool for forgetting to take a note to
Lady '

"Here the Coroner interposed, and said
that no names need unnecessarily be brought
in.

The witness resumed : —

' He smoked a cigarette, and then
dressed for dinner. He was going to dine
with '

The witness was again told that these
details were not required.

* I am sure he never thought of suicide,

for I had, by his orders, got him a half-crown
button-hole flower that evening.
Just before he was dressed, Sir Mervin
O'Connor called, and I showed him in.
He was a great friend of my master's — a
very nice, pleasant gentleman. They had
not met for some time, as Sir Mervin had
been abroad with the army. They talked
for a few minutes, and then Colonel
North rang the bell and told me to go
down to the brougham, which was waiting
at the Burlington Gardens end of the
Albany, and tell the coachman, after he
had deposited his master, to take a letter to
Grosvenor Square. I waited, chatting with
the coachman — waiting for the Colonel to
come to the brougham. I knew his dinner
was for eight o'clock, as I had seen the

invitation '

'* A juror interrupted to ask how he had
seen it.

The witness, indignantly : —

* On the mantelpiece, of course. I never

looked at my master's private letters. I
waited till half-past eight o'clock, and then
I began to get uneasy. I thought we had
made some mistake, and that the brougham
should have been at the Piccadilly end. So
I went back to the chambers, and, as I was
going upstairs, on the second step below the
landing on the floor where they were, I found
him lying — bleeding from the head. He
was unconscious. I obtained assistance, and
we carried him in and put him on his bed.
Dr. James came and said there was no
hope. His skull was fractured. He lived
for two hours; and, about half an hour
before he died, he said to me, the doctor
being there, "You there, Johnson?" — these
were his very words — "faithful fellow!
faithful fellow! He is gone?" I asked
him what he meant, and he said, 'sir
Mervin," and then he went on before I
could answer, " Of course he has. I slipped
slipped, Johnson, as I hurried downstairs.
I was running, as I was so late. Sir Mervin

left me ten minutes before ; as 1 had to
wait to write a note. I slipped on a bit of
orange-peel, I think — a bit of orange-peel'
These were his exact words. He never
spoke again before he died.

By the Coroner : A gentleman living on
the top floor often ate oranges. Witness
had often noticed bits of peel on the staircase.
Couldn't swear he saw any that night ;
but then he was flurried.

After Dr. Henry Arthur James, of 905,
Piccadilly, had given evidence as to the
cause of death, the Coroner summed up.
He said he should have liked to hear the
evidence of the last person who had seen
the deceased alive, but he held in his hand
a medical certificate that Sir Mervin
O'Connor was dangerously ill and could not
attend.

"A juror remarked that they were all
perfectly satisfied.

"The Coroner said that he deprecated
interruption on the part of the jury. It

was his business to tell them the law. In
this case it seemed perfectly clear that the
deceased had fallen in hurrying down a
steep flight of stone steps. The jury had
viewed the premises, and could form their
own opinion as to the probability of such an
occurrence ; they could also form an opinion
as to whether the accident was caused directly
or indirectly by orange-peel carelessly
left on the stairs.

The jury found that the deceased met his
death by accidentally falling downstairs, and
added a rider severely censuring the habit
of leaving pieces of orange-peel lying on staircases
or pavements. In the latter case the
police should have orders to remove them.

'the Coroner; 'To justify their appellation
of peelers, I suppose.' (Loud laughter)"
******

When, nearly two months after my being
taken ill, I was for the first time allowed out
of the house, I staggered like a drunken man
with weakness, and had to be helped into

my carriage. I had but one idea, one longing
— to tell the truth. Twenty times in the
last few weeks of convalescence I had begun
the dreadful story to my mother, who had
come over from Ireland to nurse me ; but
each time the words froze on my lips. The
revelation to her would indeed be terrible,
and I shrank from inflicting such a blow on
her even who had cursed my life in giving
it to me. She had changed terribly. An
old, sad, stern woman now. Silent, humble
; and always inexpressibly melancholy.
Day after day she sat with me in that dark
room, and now and again, as my thoughts
in their turbulence forced themselves out of
my mouth in confused murmuring and
ravings, I saw her quail before me — perchance
saying to herself that I was suffering
for her sin. One day she prevailed on me,
after long entreaty, to let her bring a new
doctor to pronounce pn my case. It seemed
odd, as I was then mending in body rapidly ;
but I humoured her, poor woman, and he

came. Women are intense doctor worshippers
: but that she should have believed in
this one was indeed extraordinary. The
man simply came to chat. My health he
certainly inquired after, but in a most perfunctory
way ; his one aim seemed to be to
draw me into conversation, and only my
wish not to annoy my mother prevented
my having the gossip turned out of the
house.

My first visit, once I could emerge from
that dark house of mine, inhabited by those
demons — remorseful thoughts — was to Hertford
Street. I found Gertrude at home and
alone. She started back, and turned pale
at the sight of me.

'sis it you, Mervin ? How you are
changed ! Oh ! how bad your illness must
have been ! You are worn, and old, and
grey, my poor boy !"

I had not thought of it before — it seemed
all so trivial ; but my hair certainly is grey
now, and my face — what does it matter ?

"Gertrude," I said, and before her fresh
young beauty — for she was now a girl compared
with me — my voice sounded like a
voice from the grave, '' I have come to tell
you the truth. I love you !"

Something in my looks or my voice
frightened her. She shrank away from me,
and stood close to the bell on the other side
of the room. I advanced nearer to her,
and as I did so I saw one of her hands
behind go gradually towards that bell.

But that is not all the truth I have come
to tell. You knew that !"

Mervin !"

Yes, you knew that all along. Sto
matter. The other truth you did not know.
I went to Bayley North to recover a letter
of yours which he threatened to use against
you. Here it is."

I handed it to her. She took it mechanically,
her eyes fixed, with something very
like fear, upon my face.

'^ You do not thank me?"

Oh, Mervin, why do you look so
strange ? Not thank you ! You know
that every feeling of my heart is yours.
You know I thank you !"

She caught my hand and kissed it. I
drew it back hurriedly.

"Before you kiss that hand it is right
you should know what it has done. It is
right you should know the price I paid for
that letter."

What do you mean ?"

Bayley North died by my hand !"

^'Oh, God

And he was my father !"

She turned on me with a wild gesture of
desperation that was superb. I marked its
beauty even then.

Are you mad, Mervin ? He died of an
accident, and — your father !"

I seized her hand, and bent down towards
her little ear, whispering, and she
shrank back from me at every word, till she
could go no farther, being against the wall.

VOL. II. I

He refused to give it me. "We struggled.
I was the stronger, and I threw him down.
Lying there in his blood, he told me — told
me when he Alas dying — that he was my
father ; and I now he spoke the truth. I
killed him — for your sake?"

No answer. My grasp of her wrist must
have hurt her. She moaned. Was it pain,
sorrow, or fear ?

"I killed him, Gertrude, for your sake!
Will you reward me? I am accursed. By
ray own act I am cast out of the society of
my fellow-creatures for ever. But it was
for you I did it. Are you not mine by
every law, human or divine? Will you
come with me? You only know the truth.
Let us go far away, where we may be alone
with this horrible secret. I have but two
feelings left — remorse and love. Let the
one kill the other. There is no morality
that can stand between us now. I have
killed all that. I am a murderer. Will

you leave your husband and come with me ?
Answer me !"

Mv hot breath fanned her cheek ; I held
her so that she could not stir as I awaited
her reply. She knew not the whole danger
she was in for that moment ; but I think
she guessed at it. She looked up straight
into my eyes.

'' No, Mervin ! No ! You are not yourself,
or you would not ask me. My husband
"

*' D — n your husband !" I screamed, beside
myself. " Has he killed a father for
you?

^' And my child !"

"Your child?"

Yes. Did you not know — did you not
hear ? I am a mother, Mervin."

The softness in her eyes as she pleaded tome
— for she was pleading for life, and she
knew it — conquered. I dropped her wrists,
I tried to cross the room to put some space

i2

between me and that witchery of beauty

which drove me mad ; but suddenly my

sight grew dim, my limbs gave way, and all

recollection ceased.

Of course it was nothing but a fainting

fit, very naturally caused by the excitement

following on my long and enfeebling illness ;

but it was some time before I was well

enough to be taken to my carriage. Lord

Monymusk had come in, and prevented any

further words between me and Gertrude.

He was most civil— the pride of unexpected

fatherhood had entirely changed him, had

cut his hair, and done away with all his

air of savageness. As I left the room, I

saw Gertrude's eyes meet his, and I read in

them — I think it was almost the bitterest

hour of my bitter life — that the child had

brought with it at last, to that formerly unhappy

household, peace, and that love which

lives the longer for its want of passion to

wear it out.

# * # # *

Throughout that night I tossed on my pillow,
my mind distracted with the thought
of whether I should give myself up to justice
for the murder I had done. It would involve,
perhaps, Gertrude's good name, more
certainly my mother's ; and yet — the Truth
concealed seemed to burn into my vitals and
torture my very soul.

Towards morning — as the objects in my
room were becoming defined by the early
light of day — I solved my difficulty. I tried
to pray, but I could not. Prayers were for
calmer minds than mine. Then I rosc^.
Yes ! There it was, that bright pistol, bought
originally to take with me to America, in
view of some possible adventures in the Far
West. There it was! the cartridges too
seemed dry, the action perfect. I snapped
it several times before I loaded it.

The determination I had taken was a new
life to me. I felt joyous, almost young and
hopeful again. I was a prisoner, with the
means of escape assured. I laughed — I remember

how odd that laugh sounded in
the stillness — and 1 raised the muzzle (how-cold
it was !) to my temple. My favourite
old dog, Lion, roused by my movements,
came up to me and licked my hand. I
leant down to him and laid a kiss upon his
forehead. Poor old brute ! No one would
miss me except him. And then again the
cold iron touched my forehead. 1 would
make my start as a race is started ! and even
as I thought this, a curious jumble of old
Ascot and Derby and Newmarket recollections
came confusedly into my mind. I
seemed again to see Bayley North standing
by with the inscrutable smile of his as I
booked some especially foolhardy bet. Are
you ready ? Go ! I shouted the last word at
the top of my voice, and pulled the trigger.

NOTE BY LADY O'CONNOR.
My poor son has asked me to jot down
the ending of this fragment of his autobiography.

I do so only on the distinct
understanding that it shall be seen by no
one until both he and I are gone from this
world.

The morning following the day when he
first went out after his terrible brain-fever
his servant found him lying on the floor in
his bedroom, unconscious, with a revolver
in his hand. He had been struck with
paralysis. The revolver had the hammer
down ; but, on examination, it was found
that the cartridge had not exploded. Speech
he did not recover for three weeks, and he
has permanently lost the use of his right
side. The doctors hold out no hope of his
recovery, and indeed say that certain complications,
not necessary to detail here, are
likely to occur, which may kill him at anytime.
As soon as he could be moved I persuaded
him to come with me to Ballyconor,
and there we now reside.

To pass his weary time — for he is afflicted
with the most distressing melancholy, although

his mind is not, as I once feared it
would be, affected by his sorrows — he drew
up the foregoing sketch of his life, dictating
it to me every evening. Now, however, he
has partially lost his power of speech, and
therefore I have added this.

He thinks that some day what is set down
here may be serviceable to some one, but I
do not share his opinion. He has forgiven
me my share in the wreck of his life, and we
have only one wish, as strong with me as
with him, to die and be forgotten.

AND WHAT CAME OF IT.

A CAPITAL MATCH;

AND WHAT CAME OF IT.

I.

IjlYERYONE who knew Harry Seward
-• liked him ; and yet few exactly respected
him. He was not a man you
would choose for a trustee or an executor
or a guardian to your children ; and,
though you would have no hesitation in
leaving untold gold in his reach, you
might think at least the historical *' three
times " before putting your name on the
back of a blue strip of paper when politely
requested by the impecunious young gentleman
so to do.

Merry, insouciant, and as devoid of principle
as it was possible for a so-called
honourable man to be, Harry was not an
unfair specimen of the genus " Man about
town" of this our generation. Good-looking,
well-dressed, with a certain aptitude
in conversation which narrowly escaped
being wit, and with a careless honhomie
that was almost geniality, he was petted
and made much of both by men and women
; and if both sexes knew that when
he had got what he wanted from them
they were but as squeezed oranges in his
sight, yet he squeezed so gently and so
pleasantly that no one much objected to
the process. Not that he was rapacious
cither as to money or love. With regard
to the first and most necessary of the two
articles, when he had he was always willing
to give, just as he expected to be given
to ; but as the want was nearly always on
his side — he being the third son of a not
over-rich Scotch Peer — the bargain was

not of the fairest. Women he looked
upon as the natural prey of man, and he
regarded their vain struggles to escape
him with the same grim amusement as a
cat may feel when toying with an unfortunate
mouse, or as the cobra experiences
when he surveys the stupefaction of the
rabbit which is to serve him as a meal.
Unlike some men, however, he could always
take a defeat graciously, turning like
a lapdog in a shrubbery from the game
that was lost to a new quarry with cheerful
alacrity; and, above all, no one had
ever heard him boast of a success, or say
even one word that could assist in smirching
the very frailest frisky matron's character.


We have perhaps said enough of him to
justify the remark that the acceptance of
his hand and heart by Miss Erie, the most
substantial heiress of the season of 187 — ,
was rather a risky proceeding. It surprised
even himself.

*' You'll hate me in a month," he said,
twisting his silky moustache as he sat
beside her on the sofa, about a week after
the announcement of their marriage had
set wagging the malicious tongues of
Society.

"Shall I, Harry? I hope not," she
murmured, a little seriously.

'rand I am sure to behave ill. You
see, one doesn't get accustomed to a strange
state of existence at once ; and — and I've
never been married before."

No more have I."

^' No, of course not ; but then women
are all born domesticated ; at least — I
mean — in a kind of way," he added, remembering
a few little experiences of his
own that seemed to contradict his axiom.

'' I wish they all were," said Ethel Erie,
with something like a sigh, perhaps also
remembering rumours which had reached
her ear of the experiences of her lover.

And — you see," went on Harry, with

an embarrassment rather strange in him,
'' I'm rather a harum-scarum sort of fellow
; and, in short, Ethel, I like you too
well to make you unhappy. Do you understand
?"

'* Hardly," she said ; but she put her
little hand into his with a gesture of confidence
which was very pretty.

I mean," and he pulled fiercely at the
moustache, "I mean — in short, Ethel, I
think we had better not do it."

Do you mean that you were mistaken
in your feelings about me ?" she asked, the
hand he held trembling.

'' Yes."

She withdrew the hand, and her mouth
quivered.

Oh !"

Yes, Ethel, I was mistaken ; I thought
I just liked you as I have liked many
other girls, and I thought I would try to
marry you because I was hard up and you
were rich. But I find, dearest, that I

don't like you in that sort of way at all ;
that you are different from other women ;
truer, better, less frivolous, less vain; in
short, a million times too good for a vaurien
like me. And, Ethel" — her hand was
in his again, and her eyes were full of
tears — " I distrust myself so much that I
do not feel sure of even the love for you I
honestly feel keeping me what I ought to
be-what any man you love ought to be.
I cannot bear to think that I may cause
pain to one like you; that I may bring
tears into those pretty eyes ; that I should
darken your bright life. Darling, we love
each other ; is not that happiness enough ?
Why should we spoil our present by bringing
in the future of hardness and change ?
Let me escape the temptation now ; give
me strength now to go away from you —
from you whom I have, brute that I
have been, associated with merely to pay
for my extravagance ; and let me always
keep the memory that once I met a pure,

perfect woman, and that she loved me !"
All the answer our heiress made was to
lay her brown-tressed head upon his shoulder,
murmuring, as she did this indelicate
thing, " Oh, Harry, I love you ! Let us
always be happy together — always together
!"

And so the one little bit of real feeling
that Harry Sey ward had felt since he came
from Oxford to take his part in the gay
world did not lose him the hand of the
great heiress, and did procure him half-an-hour
of the purest love-making that he,
with all his conquests, had ever experienced.
There are few men with a spark
of good left in them who do not feel
ennobled by the love of an honest, pure
woman ; like Mercy, such love is twice
blessed ; it confers a blessing on the giver
and the receiver ; and something of the
hardness which contact with the world
brings is rubbed off when the angel attribute
of unselfish devotion steps in. Per-vol.

II. K

laps only a woman can love with no
thought of self. Many an old spinster,
living ridiculous among her pet dogs or
plethoric cats, has felt within her bosom
what the languishing beauties of Courts
and their favoured Lotharios would have
given years of their life even to know.

So Harry Sey ward, flattered and caressed
all the more now that he was about to add
wealth to his other attributes, for a short
time forgot to be pleased with his so-called
good luck ; was inclined, indeed, to shun
the somewhat coarse and plain-spoken
congratulations of his acquaintance ; to
forget all about the money in the Three
per Cents, and the place in Northamptonshire,
and to remember only, as an all-sufficient
happiness, that he was loved by
a woman whom he loved in return.

The little billet-doux of numerous frisky
ladies anxious to offer him their sympathetic
compliments on his at last '' ranging
" himself ; the loud-voiced *' bravos " of

Ms associates at the Clubs, who foresaw
much advantage from the enrichment of
so generous a fellow; all care like so many
shocks to him in a short dream of a kind
of happiness he had hitherto despised or
ignored; and to not one soul amid his
many friends did he dare, for fear of ridicule,
to impart the dread secret that he
really loved this heiress, who was to pay
off his debts, and settle £10,000 a year
upon him. And yet she was worthy of a
man's love, too. There was something in
her character which neither the crafty
scheming of her father (now dead, and
gone where his bankers-book could not
accompany him), nor the interested flattery
of a money-worshipping world could spoil.
She did care for her wealth, but as it was
a means of making others happy ; she did
care for the pleasure of Society, but she
saw the good side of that Society more
clearly than the other, being good herself ;
and, having no arrieres-pensees in her own

K 2

heart, she never made herself wretched by
attributing motives to others.

Of course she was well aware that a
great part of her popularity came from the
fact of her being rich ; but she accepted
this as one of the inevitable disadvantages
of an otherwise pleasant position ; and, if it
sometimes annoyed and saddened her to
witness the readiness with which nine-tenths
of her young male friends would
sell themselves for money, the thing had
its comic side, too, which, having her fair
share of a sense of the ridiculous, she
could thoroughly appreciate. How she
came to fall in love with Harry Seward
was a puzzle to herself, as much as to her
friends and the world in general.

I repose it growed," she said to her
greatest friend. Miss Deliver, parodying
Topsy. ''I certainly can give it no accurate
parentage. I only know that it exists,
and is remarkably strong and healthy. Of
course, dear, I know exactly what you all

say ; what you, perhaps, have a right to
say. He is not perfect. But who is?
Yes, he is fond of horse-racing ; perhaps
of what men call ' punting.' They say he
threw ever so many mains at hazard the
other night, and I suspect the money went
to Hancock for that bracelet he gave me
this morning. But what then ? Simply
that if he married a poor wife he would
soon be wandering about the Continent ina
seedy coat. Fancy Harry in bad clothes !
I am sure I shall do him good. It must
do him good to have money, even if it is
only to lose ; and donec you think, Clara,
that it is possible my love may do him good
too. These women he has hitherto flirted
with, do you suppose any one of them
really cared for him, or does care for him,
enough to try to keep him from evil and
.dangler ?"

Her voice trembled as she spoke the
concluding sentence, and her friend, seeing
that it was of no use to prolong the argument,

gave her a kiss and declared she
was an angel ; which she was, as well as an
heiress.

The dignified satisfaction with which the
news of Harry's engagement was received
by his family may be imagined. It was
almost too dignified, and its reasons and
modes of showing itself too complex for
description by our unpractised pen. The
old Earl, whose chief characteristics were
a three-times-round necktie and a firm
belief that the Liberals were doomed to
eternal destruction, naturally hailed the
fact that his son had now provided himself
with another paymaster. Lady Clackmannan
dashed about from one friend's
house to another, to " talk it over," until
her Ladyship's prancing chestnuts could
scarcely?" drag their legs over the stones ;
and Viscount Ardrishaig, the elder son,
straightway borrowed a " pony " of his
lucky relative, in a burst of fraternal affection.
It is sad to relate that all this money,

before many months were over, had found
ifs way into the pockets of the minor bookmakers
; for the Viscount was an ardent
supporter of second-rate racing, and when,
at a little country meeting, he had backed
a three-legged weed of his own (picked up
at some sale for forty guineas) for a five-pound
note — having spent many anxious
days previously squeezing secrets out of
jockeys and good-natured and astute publicans
— he was in a state of mysterious and
unholy excitement that no owner of a
favourite for the Derby could ever hope to
emulate.

The Duchess of Stornaway, who was
considered the head of the family, and
whose opinion in anything relating to it
was taken as law by all the Rewards, was
graciously pleased to express her satisfaction
with the engagement.

Miss Erie is a lady," said her Grace,
and her mother was a lady, which accounts
for it. I only hope her family will

see that the money is properly tied up, so
that Harry may not squander it as he has
squandered his own."

The Duchess was accustomed to say
very severe things concerning her relatives,
and this to Harry's own face and
before a bevy of the family was perhaps
not pleasant ; but it was honey compared
with her usual remarks, and confirmed the
opinion of many present that even her
Grace at her ripe years had not been
quite proof against the fascinations of her
nephew ; indeed, the old Duke was accustomed
to say, laughing, that she was overhead
and ears in love with the boy, and
that, if she were only twenty-five years
younger, he would not have answered for
the consequences.

I only hope those impudent weekly
papers will not insert disagreeable paragraphs
about it," went on the Duchess.
Of course one does not mind what they
say, but it is unpleasant nevertheless.

Can nobody go round and give orders that
nothing is to be put in ?"

None of the family present seemed to
be in a position which justified their professing
the possession of such power as
this ; but eventually something was done,
and beyond a fierce wrangle between the
Publico Fryer and the Belgravian Wasp as
to the exact amount of Miss Erie's fortune,
and a slight difference between the Beau
Monde and the Aristocratic Bevieio (the
latter a paper just started by an enterprising
boot maker who made exquisite
increasing footmen's shoes) about the
colour of the young lady's hair and the
Christian name of her maid, with an offshoot
of contention as to the usual food
of her pug, very little was said in the
weekly 'journals of Society" that could
vex the soul of even so particular a personas
the Duchess of Stornaway.

And so, in the height of the season,
when people, who had by a law of their

own making come from their cool houses
in the flowery country, were making every
excuse for hurry iDg as often as possible
from the hot streets to a spurious country
life of polo and lawn-tennis and tea-garden
flirtation ; when senators mopped their
brows and made speeches, and used much
ingenuity to escape the visits of curious
and perspiring constituents ; when far
into the night yawning coachmen sat in
line waiting for the hour of release to
come for their yawning mistresses ; when
dandies from our Army, irreverently yclept
Spring Captains," sauntered moodily down
Piccadilly, wishing they knew some one ina
carriage to take their hats off to ; when
linen began to think that life after all
was just endurable, with somewhat of beer
and skittles therein — in the height of the
London season, we say, Harry Seward
was, at St. George's Church, united in the
bonds of holy matrimony to Ethel, only
daughter of the late Mark Erie, Esq., of

Lombard Street, and of Grey ton Towers,
Nor tliamptoD shire.

There is no rose, alas ! without a thorn ;
and even as Lord Clackmannan was reading
the announcement in the Times over
his breakfast next morning, to assure himself
once more that his wheedling son
would no longer come to him for an addition
to his allowance, he received a
blow from which his refined nature recoiled.


There, alongside of the rose, was the
sharp-pointed thorn. " No cards." The
arrangements in this respect had been left
to the Erie family, and here was the result
! It is gratifying to be able to record
that, notwithstanding this taint of vulgarity
thus grafted, as it were, on the tree of his
son's prosperity, the Earl was able to tie
his tie with his accustomed regularity,
and none but a very close observer could
have remarked the slight sign of nervous
trepidation he evinced for the next few

days whenever any mention of the wedding
was made in this hearing.

As to Lady Clackmannan, she wrote
furious letters to the editor of the Times
and the Erie delinquent who was responsible
for this breach of etiquette. We fear
the first of these letters, splendid monogram
and all, joined many plebeian effusions
in the monster waste-paper basket
in Printing House Square ; but the second
was more successful, and formed the commencement
of a very pretty quarrel, which
bade fair to keep anj^ of Mrs. Harry's
relatives from troubling the Clackmannan
menage in Tilney Street, and gave her
Ladyship an immense amount of amusement
in the way of epistolatory controversy.


The happy pair (oh ! hackneyed phrase,
which must so often have read to those
principally concerned as a bitter sneer at
the lie they have just registered before

Heaven and man !) went off to a pretty
place of the Duke's within driving distance
of London ; and there we must leave them
for the time of their honeymoon — mysterious
fortnight which bachelors consider
with an awe that vainly takes refuge in
assumed sarcasm, and which married men
look back upon with such mixed feelings,
so often, alas ! with regret ; for in whoso
book of life are there not many pages
which he would gladly blot out or rewrite
?

A solemn time that honeymoon, let
comic scribblers say what they please.
When two human hearts attempt to open
their secrets to each other ; when often it
comes to one or other of a linked together
pair that a hideous mistake has been made,
and that what promised to be a life of
roses and summer skies is fated to be buta
sad dark winter of discontent, silent
endurance, and regret.

II.

'Sot much time had elapsed after the auspicious
day when —

The men admired the happy maid,
The maids the happy man,"

at St. George's, Hanover Square, before
Ethel Seyward began in her inmost heart,
and sorely against her will, to realize the
terrible fact that she had made a mistake.
Not that she was unhappy as yet, only
the belief in a stratum of solid goodness
and real rectitude of purpose existing in
Harry Seyward's character — though overlaid
with an immense amount of frivolity
and worldliness — seemed after all to have
been a delusion. Little speeches of his
were perpetually jarring upon her nerves ;
little glimpses of his utterly unprincipled
rule of life, whose motto was : " In a world
of liars he lives best who lies best." She
did not believe the world was one of liars ;
and surely, she sometimes thought to herself,

Harry's experience of her, his own
wife, might have a little improved his
scornfully cynical opinion of women en
masse.

You're an exception, my love," he said
to her on one occasion, when she gave
voice to this feeling — '' a brilliant, magnificent
exception ; a diamond in a dustheap
; the exception that proves the rule.
Surely a man who found a swan among
his Q^eese would be a fool if for the rest of
his days he took all his geese to be swans.
Though, by the way, I'd rather have a
goose than a swan."

*i'm not an exception, Harry," she
declared, rather hotly, 'rand I hate to
hear you say such things. We are not
all bad — men or women either; but we
require to be looked at fairly, and without
blurring prejudices. Even the sun looks
distorted seen through bad glass."

"And you're my sun, dear; and I shall
always look at you with the naked eye, until

I am old and decrepit, when only the best
spectacles shall be used."

^'Do.be serious, Harry."

Serious in the honeymoon ! What
profanation ! I'd as soon whistle at a
funeral."

Can you not think there is more good
than bad in the world ?" she asked, rather
sadly ; for, lightly as he spoke, and unimportant
as the talk might seem, a great
part of the happiness of her life seemed to
be slipping away from her in the awakening
of this honeymoon.

With you at my side, of course I can.
Without you, Ethel, I fear I should fall
back into my old habits of thought. I told
you what I was, you know ; and you took
me, like a buyer at Tattersall's, without a
warranty. I can't be returned if unsound
or vicious, dear. That's the rule of the
yard."

Ethel sighed. She was somewhat
serious-minded. And his levity, which

seemed ceaseless, annoyed and saddened
her.

Truly they were an ill-matched couple ;
yet they had love to bind them together
still. When that link wore out and
snapped — and how often is it a weak, ill-made
chain ? — it did not require a very
penetrating eye to foresee storms on the
horizon of their domestic life.

And — nestled in a lovely little house in
Park Street, surrounded by luxuries of
doubtful taste and certain value, living ina
comfort that her early days certainly
never foreshadowed, waited a little lady
with big black eyes, who was well accustomed
to —

'' Kite the whirlwind and direct the storm "

that shattered the fears of so many fair-seeming
homes. She waited with determined
eyes and angry purpose in her
small, resolute mouth, until such time as
the Seyward mansion in Prince's Gate

VOL. IT. L

might open its hospitable doors to the
friends of its master and mistress.

Amid his many flirtations perhaps none
had been more serious — and in some ways
more annoying — to Harry Seyward than
that which he had carried on for some two
years, in full light of day, with Mrs. Mir-tables.
She was so pretty and so inconstant
that it was some credit to him to
have for so long a time the privileged
entree to the little house in Park Street ;
but her reign was unfortunately prolonged
into the days when Ethel's fortune hung
so temptingly before him ; and the persistence
with which she insisted on ignoring
any feeling on his part towards his
fiancee save that of pecuniary interest, was
embarrassing ; for he had not the courage
to break with the old love, nor to lay bare
before her cutting sarcasm the actual fact
of his affection for the " big woman from
the city," as Lola Mirrables persisted in
calling Ethel. But women are quick

enough to detect those little matters, and
the little lady o£ Park Street knew well
enough what was passing in her faithless
admirer's mind, and hated and despised
him heartily for his cowardice.

None the less, of course, did she determine
to resume her temporarily abrogated
sway ; and this time the pleasure of having
Harry Seyward at her feet would carry
with it also the intense enjoyment to be
gained by the mischief it would cause.

So that, when the happy pair, having
duly done their month of treacle, came
back to London, Mrs. Mirrables was one
of their first visitors, and played her part
so well that when she left the house
Harry had to listen to a great deal of
praise from his wife of a lady who — well,
who was not generally a great favourite
with wives who loved their husbands.

One of Ethel's characteristics was an
absolute refusal to accept the verdict of
the world without some slight investigate



tion of her own, and the cruel things
that people said of Mrs. Mirrables vanished
into thin air before her pretty confiding
ways and innocent acknowledgments of
folly which ill-natured people would construe
into something worse.

You see," she said one day to Ethel,.
I have had such hard cards to play all
my life, and I can't help liking a little
society and amusement. I often wish I
had been born ugly ! But I have this-consolation,
that, whatever the world may
say, John knows I am to be trusted."

John was her husband, the meekest
man that ever married woman, and whoso
literary studies totally precluded him from
sharing in the fashionable amusements of
his frisky wife.

Do you think I ought to go and spend
every day with him in the British Museum
reading-room ? I believe they admit women,
only you're not allowed to speak.
If you think I ought, dear, I really will."

No, Lola dear," said Ethel, smiling at
the other's pretty earnestness — they had
got to calling each other by their Christian
names by this time — ''no, I don't think
you are required to do that. And, as far
as I am concerned, you may make your
mind easy. I never believe ill-natured
stories, and I listen to them as little as
possible."

You are so good. If you knew how
lonely and unhappy I am sometimes in
Park Street ! How I long for a friend
like you !"

Ethel was not demonstrative, nor did she
like demonstrativeness in others ; but she
returned the clasp of the other's hand,
and said very kindly, as Lola repressed a
sob —

Come here whenever you like, dear.
You will generally find me at home alone
in the morning, and between six and
seven. I don't like the idea of your being
unhappy, with no one to talk to. Surely

Mr. Mirrables is not all day and every day
at the British Museum ?"

]Not quite ; but when he is at home
he shuts himself up in his study and no
one dare enter. He hasn't come into the
dining-room now for ever so long."

Mrs. Mirrables forgot to mention that-the
poor man had received long ago strict
orders never to dare to violate the sanctity
of the exquisitely artistic little room
where she received her visitors ; but perhaps
it escaped her memory.

And so, rather to the astonishment of
the world," and very much to that of
her husband, Ethel struck up a decided
friendship for the woman who was perhaps
the most unlike her of all the women in
London town ; and many cynics were-amused
and a little mystified to see the
care with which Lola conducted herself
when in the earshot of her friend, imitating
her somewhat slow and solemn way
nf speaking and her dignified carriage

with infinite humour, when two or three
men were congregated together in the
little room in Park Street.

Gradually Harry began to find this
friendship very convenient, and forgot to
inquire too closely into its cause. He
resumed — in a mild, but pleasant manner
his interrupted flirtation With Lola ; and
she, being a woman of excellent tact, was
always ready to come to Prince's Gate
whenever her services were required to
fill the void occasioned by his absence at
his club — or elsewhere.

For — it is a sad story — already, before
the first season had waned, her husband
had begun to seek after other gods than
the beautiful deity he had set up at home ;
and, perhaps for the sake of contrast,
perhaps, as the Yankees say, out of sheer
^'cussedness," he sought for objects of
worship in those among women who were
not worthy to black the shoes of his
wife.

He became the most constant frequenter
of the " Bouffe " Theatre. There he made
great friends with the manager, giving him
exquisite little repasts at his club, and
even going so far as to introduce him to
Prince's Gate. This manager was a pleasant
dog enough, and could sing you an
excellent song after putting a magnum of
champagne under his belt ; but perhaps
the presence at the '^ Bouffe " of Miss
Nettie Vender may have had something toto
do with Harry's sudden predilection for
that theatre.

III.

Nettie Vender, as she called herself, was
pretty and bewitching enough to excuse a
good deal. She was not vulgar, yet she
had a decidedly ready wit ; she was always
more or less refined, even when refinement
seemed scarcely required by her surroundings;
and there was a certain mystery

about her origin, and also about her income,
which was rather captivating. No
one knew exactly what nation she belonged
to. She spoke broken English and doubtful
French, but spoke both languages
easily and prettily. Some said she was
Dutch, but there was a general disinclination
among her admirers to admit the truth
of this theory, in that their ideas of Dutch
women were of the thick-waisted, webfooted
kind. But, whatever she was, there
was no kind of doubt about the fact that
wherever she went, whether to Paris, or
Vienna, or London, or even stolid Berlin,
she turned the heads of a great many male
persons, even of very illustrious and high-titled
male persons. Her singing was only
just not good enough to entitle her to a
place amid the stars of the Opera, but her
acting, especially in light comedy and in
opera bouffe, was simply perfection ; and
the agitation among the young dandies in
the stalls whenever she showed her merry

face and lissome figure on the other side
of the footlights was extreme.

No wonder, when that enterprising
impresario Mr. Happy kopf, engaged herat
his splendid new theatre in Piccadilly,
that the stage-door was nightly besieged
by a mob of cigar-smoking, white-tied
youths, evidently impressed with the belief
that, on her way to her neat brougham
some night, she would suddenly — a la
Queen of Spain — cast the 03^0 of affection
on one or other of their number. Ingenuous
youths ! She would as soon have requested
the dirtiest super who took his hat
off to her as he opened her carriage-door,
to step into it and come home to supper,
as have spoken to the most generously
amatory amongst them without a formal
introduction. But they only loved her the
more for the scornful manner in which she
swept by them, and continued to enjoy the
pleasures of hope each night over their
cigars outside the " Bouffe " stage-door.

It may well be imagined that Harry
Seyward did not form one of this expectant
group. No. In a very short time he
was hail-fellow-well-met with the manager,
who introduced him to Mr. Happykopf,
the proprietor, who asked him to a little
party on the banks of the Thames, where
he was presented to the actress of the day.

And then he fell — or deemed that he
fell — straightway in love with her, but
kept this fact — or assumed fact — to himself,
and made her laugh as few of her
admirers, even those with illustrious names
ever did, and speedily became on friendly
terms with her, and received permission to
call upon her in Bayswater.

And now Lola Mirrables's presence in
Prince's Gate became especially desirable ;
for never had he met a woman with whom
the time flew more quickly and more pleasantly
than with the witty, pretty, worthless
actress. There was, in a sense, a freshness
about her which charmed the hlase

intriguer, an utter absence of the littleness
he generally met in women, and a bold
disregard for all laws, human or divine —
not assumed, as his partly was, but real
and almost unconscious, which filled him
with a respect that had a little awe in it.

She did not fall in love, or pretend to
fall in love, with him.

"You are a good comrade, mon ami, and
do not bore me, or make love to me, or
bother me with presents which I don't
want, like most of them. Come and seeme
as often as you like, or, at least (I
forgot), as often as you are allowed'*

'' Allowed !"

Yes. 'Allowed,' Monsieur le maria

He had not got deep enough yet to care
about his domestic arrangements being
discussed by her, so did not pursue the
subject, but lit a cigar absently, wondering
whether he could make this indifferent,
insoucianie little creature change her tone ;
for he was far from satisfied with his

position as regarded her, and certainly
desired that her house should be to him
something more than a delicious club,
where he could smoke and say anything
he pleased. For he met many people there ;
men mostly, but nearly all amusing and
clever; nearly all people who had done
something, or were about to do something,
or could do something if they pleased.
They were not what our novelists call
Bohemians." Bohemianism is another
name for laziness allied to dirt, and generally
associated with failure. They comprised
every nation under the sun, and the
Babel of sounds in the Bayswater room
was sometimes terrific. Nettie had a joke
and a smile for each; and perhaps some
great ladies — moving uneasily about their
crowded salons wondering why that lion or
this lioness didn't come or won't roar, or
whether Royalty is going to be faithless,
after all — might have taken a lesson from
the Bouffe actress, as she roved saucy and

piquante from one clattering group to
another.

Sunday was ber great day for reception,
when the Bayswater neighbours were much
scandalised at the sounds they heard, the
laughter and song and secular music, even
so it was darkly whispered at the
Rector's tea-table — even on more than one
occasion the sound of dancing feet.

It was not a new world for Seyward,
for he had seen most of what there was
to see during his ten years "about town,"
but it was the most perfect specimen of
easy-going theatrical life he had ever come
across, and his vanity made him keenly
alive to the fact that it was a life very few
of his associates could hope to enter, and
that he was gradually, thanks to his aplomb
his good looks, and a certain cynical humour
he possessed, becoming rather a prominent
person in the Bayswater set.

It may be easily proved, bathe aid of
applied mathematics, that the oftener he

went to Nettie Vender's the oftener lie les fc
his wife alone ; and our readers may perhaps
be prepared for the statement that that
lady did not grow happier as the days
went on.

Of course she heard whispers as to the
cause of her husband's frequent absence ;
of course kind friends took care to plant
daggers of condolence in her heart ; but
she was too proud to make a sign either
to the world that grinned and promised
itself a little amusement, or to the man
who was breaking her heart for the gratification
of his passing vanity.

As to Nettie Vender herself, wives were
so common an appendage to the gentlemen
who came and threw themselves at
her feet, that it never flashed across her
that, simply to pass away an idle hour, she
might be working a great wrong to a
fellow-creature. Let us do her the justice
to say that, had she suspected the real
state of affairs, she would have slammed

her door in Mr. Seyward's face with very
little compunction or regret.

IV.

*' I Really think we ought to go to Grey-ton,
Harry; I have all sorts of things to
look after there, and have been away a longtime.
There are the schools and "

Oh, bother the schools ! Can't you
send them a cheque, and tell the little
beggars to learn, and be hanged to them'*

''JSTo; I don't think that is a good way
of looking after people. And they are all
very fond of me there, Harry. Do comedown
to Greyton for a fortnight at least."

I detest the country when there is no
hunting. But I'll tell you what I'll do.
I'll come down with you next week, and
see you comfortably settled — and — and
then I'll just come back here, and do
Brighton, and Lewes, and Egham, and one
or two other race meetings about here —

then run on to Paris with two or three
other fellows who want me to go — come
back for Doncaster, and then join you at
Greyton for the partridge-shooting."

'^/ don't shoot partridges," said Mrs.
Seyward, with a touch of sarcasm. " But
surely you don't mean really you wish to
be away from me so long ?"

Really, my dear Ethel, we mustn't act
like a couple of babies. You have your
amusements with your model schools
and workmen's clubs, and churches, and
curates, and things ; and I am fond of
racing and such like. Let us go our own
ways, and it will be all the nicer when we
meet."

** But why go to Paris ?"

Oh ! hang it, must one account for
every whim ? I haven't been to Paris forever
so long; and one ought to see the
Exhibition."

I thought you said the Exhibition was
only a huge shop, and that you hated look-vol.

IT. M

ing into shop windows. But that was
when / wanted to go."

"Well, come now; and I'll give up
Brighton and Lewes."

I must go to Northampton shire now,
Harry."

There ! You see how everything has
to give way to your plans. "Well, that's
settled — you go to Greyton and I join you
there in six weeks' or a month's time."

Ethel subdued with difficulty a silly desire
to sob which seized her — for, mind you,
she was still in love with this man — hesitated
for a moment while he impatiently
twirled his moustache, and then agreed to
his plan.

Lola Mirrables's letter to her, when she
was alone, amid her scheme for doing good
in the country, was scarcely comforting.

'' My poor angel," she wrote, " it is allas
I feared. He was one of the party with
that vile woman at the Grand Hotel at

Brighton, and went with her in her carriage
to the races each day. And they say
they are going to Paris together but this I
will not believe. I think you are wrong to
be so proud. Perhaps even now a line
from you, promising forgiveness of the
past, and explaining that you will be more
what shall I say ? — more amenable
to his washes in future, might bring him
back."

But to write such a letter never could
have been possible to Ethel. Her pride,
like most pride, had its bad side. She
was the wronged one ; no one should ever
know what she suffered, not even he if he
did become cured of his madness ; but nothing,
not even the temptation of being
happy again by his side, would force her
to abate one jot of her dignity. To be
left for an actress ! The thought was
fearfully galling to her ; but she at least
would not assist him to see the difference.

M 2

Let him find it out for himself ; and if he
did not find it out —-well, better her heart
than her pride should be broken.

When Harry Seyward found that his
having his own way brought no epistolary
reproaches upon him he congratulated
himself on what he considered his timely
firmness.

If two ride a horse one must ride behind,"
he said to himself. *' Had I given
way now as to my liberty of action I should
have put on the chain myself. She is a
dear good woman, and I shall be delighted
to see her again. In the meantime "

^' What are you thinking of ? You areas
grave as an owl," cried the merry voice
of Nettie Vender, coming into the room.
*'I have news for you. They want me to
play in Vienna and to go tomorrow.
Carl and Alphonse are coming — will you
also ?"

He hesitated for a moment. Partridge-shooting
had begun now, and he had

heard there was a good show of birds at
Greyton. Besides, he had almost fixed
the day of his arrival in his last letter
to Ethel.

Ah, I forgot you are a domestic
animal ! Better you should go home like
a good boy."

Don't be a fool, Nettie ! Of course
I'll come ; at any rate, to throw you a
bouquet the first night."

And, madame — what will she say?"

Madame is very happy with her
churches and parsons," he made answer,
admiring Nettie's exquisite toilette, '' and
you know I don't count for much in such
company."

You are a vile, heartless wicked man,
and shall take me for a whole morning's
shopping as a punishment ! Is the Victoria
come round?"

V.

Happy ! Ethel sat out in the flower-garden

at Greyton, waiting to hear the first
sound of the wheels of the carriage that
had gone to fetch her husband from the
station. She was dressed in the colour he
had said he liked, and which she knew —
for, for his sake, she could be a little vain
became her well. A faint flush was
upon her cheeks, which had grown pale of
late, and her eyes were soft, with the tears
of forgiveness very near to them.

The train has passed that should bring
the truant home ! At last ! There is the
carriage ! She can scarcely resist a desire
to run forward to meet it, a proceeding
which would have shocked the servants,
whose admiration for their stately mistress
was not unmixed with awe. But she sits
still, grasping the woodwork of the garden
chair with both hands. But what is this ?"
There is some mistake ! The carriage
dashes past the hall-door and disappears
round the turn to the stables. " Oh, of
course — very natural — men often like to

get out at the back-door of a house." So
she reasons with herself, but can sit still
no longer, and enters the house by the
garden window. It seems an age before
she hears an outer door open, and breathlessly,
in vain trying to be dignified amid
her yearning love, she stands waiting for
him to enter. Her door opens, and the
butler appears. " Your master has
arrived ?" she asks, with outward calmness,
but with a galloping heart. "No,
ma'am. The carriage didn't wait, as there
is no other train till half-past nine. Is it
to go again ?" She says 'eyes," and sits
down with a sick feeling of despair at her
heart. She has waited so long, so patiently.
But he may come by the next
train. He probably had more things todo
in London than he expected.

She is making a fool of herself. What
man ever did come by the train he meant
to come by? But when, a few hours
later, she received a telegram, " Am obliged

to go on to Vienna. Will write from
there," lie completely broke down ; and
the second footman, a respectable youth
with decently strong nerves, declared that
evening in the servants' hall that it quite
** gave him a turn, like," to enter the
sitting-room with coals and find his
mistress lying prone upon the floor.

And her maid, when she had been put
to bed, declared that she had known it
would happen from the first, and that she
only wished all men — excluding probably
the butler, to whom she had been affianced
for some years — could have one neck, and
she the hanging of 'em.

VI.

Haeey Seyward did come home at last,
but, after his gay wanderings and erratic
life in such places as Paris and Vienna,
the even-going quiet and monotony of
Greyton was unbearable to him. And his

wife's calm, rather serious manner chafed
and annoyed him. Kettle Vender was, he
said to himself, much more agreeable and
easy to get on with of the two, and it
raised a sort of queer indignation in his
mind that he should have to guard his
tongue and be careful of his stories, to be
discreet as to his tobacco and to wipe his
shoes, with his own wife, while with others
he could smoke, swear, tell doubtful stories,
and dirty the carpet as he pleased. The
worst of it was that the more he showed he
was bored, the less did his wife try to
amuse him. Every yawn of his was a
wound to her affections, as well as to her
pride ; and his casual allusions to his past
amusements did not make matters better.
So the breach between the two widened
day by day, until his frequent absences in
town — on business, he said — were almost
a relief even to her. Yet she suffered
horribly, for Fate, in its usual perverse
fashion, had ordained that his very indifference

should somehow feed the flame
of her affection. Some steady-minded philosophic
people tell you that affection cannot
exist without respect. What a fallacy
this is we can easily read in the History of
Love. The two feelings are far as the
poles asunder in most cases; for one is
blind, and the other most intensely strong
in its visual organs.

Ethel Seyward only knew that — with or
without reason — she did love this disreputable,
ungrateful husband of hers, and
would give almost her soul to win him
back to his allegiance. She had that kind
of natural haughtiness (which depends
more on education and temperament than
blue blood) which forbade her to believe
he could in real earnest prefer an actress —
a painted playing thing — to herself. It
was a madness and a curable madness,
degrading to him and to her while it
lasted, but not really affecting the solid
link that was between them two, more

than the antics of a temporary lunatic
have to do with his action in his hours of
sanity.

And, poor woman, she did her very best
to amuse him, but it was to amuse him in
her own way that she tried. It seemed
impossible to her that he could actually
take no interest whatever in her plans for
doing good to all around her; in her
pretty church, her skilfully-planned workman's
club, her village flower-shows, and
her clean and intelligent school-children.
It was only part of his madness not now
to care for such things, and she must not
cease insisting on their beauty and interest.
So the more he was bored the more
she bored him ; indeed, the more he resented
it the more sternly did she resolve
to continue the practice.

VII.

Winter gradually drew to a close. The
house in Prince's Gate glowed afresh under

its new coat of paint, while, inside, the
furniture rejoiced at being taken out of
the dull brown holland coverings, and soon
carriages came rolling up to the front
door, depositing cards for Mr. and Mrs.
Seward, who, it was rumoured, were to
entertain largely this season.

** Thank God we are out of that infernal
Greyton !" exclaimed Harry, throwing himself
into a chair in the drawing-room just
after their arrival.

'^ I don't think you were very much
there, Harry," said his wife. "Most of
your winter was spent in the train to London
and back, it seems to me."

Well, that wasn't amusing.

You needn't have done it. There was
plenty to amuse you at Greyton."

'' There wasn't a thing, my dear. You
see, I am, as I have often told you, a town
mouse. I want streets, and noise, and
people I know all about me, and my Club,
and "

And your theatre."

Well, yes ; at least, if there is a decent
actor or actress in it."

"I hope some theatre now answers your
expectations," she said, turning a little
white.

"No. I think I shall run over to Paris
for a week or so. They tell me there are
some capital plays there, and it rubs up
one's French. Besides, London isn't half
aired yet. I hate the place during the
time when people insist on shaking hands
with you and asking when you came back.
I'll get^^you an Easter egg in Paris, Ethel."

They make them just as well in London,"
said Mrs. Seyward, turning away
with something like a sigh.

When he had lounged out, cigarette
in mouth, looking, as his deluded wife
thought, very handsome in his careless
laziness, she took up the Times and looked
down the list of theatrical advertisements.
As lie expected, the name of Mile. Vender

was not there ; but, just as she was putting
down the paper, her eye lit upon this
paragraph : —

London playgoers will be disappointed
to hear that Mile. Vender, whose acting
took the town by storm last season, has
been engaged for a period of six months

by M. X , of the Theatre, Paris.

The gifted artiste's success' &c., &c.

Harry's sudden dislike to London before
Easter was now easily explainable, and
she was not much surprised when, a few
days afterwards, he suddenly had his
portmanteau packed, told her to write to
him at the Grand Hotel, and departed,
leaving her alone to amuse herself returning
the cards of the good persons who wished
to be invited to such festivities as might
take place in Prince's Gate. And very
much alone she felt ; far more so than
amid her more serious occupations in
]Northamptonshire.

There is no such weary work as gaiety

when the heart is not gay ; and a thumbscrew
is scarcely a more unpleasant thing to
wear than a conventional grin under such
circumstances. Nevertheless for a time
she played her part bravely enough, trying
to shut her ears to the rumours that came
fast from across the Channel — rumours
which said that Mr. Seyward had cast
aside all decency, and was openly —
nay, ostentatiously — casting his money into
the lap of the siren of the Theatre.

He is ruining himself, and you, too,
my dear," said little Mrs. Mirrables, with
crocodile tears in her soft, purring voice.
'rit is not fair. There should be a line
drawn somewhere, even in Paris. Her
carriages, which he provides, are the talk
of the Bois. I forget what the last pearl
necklace that he gave her cost — something
fabulous. They say that he even talks of
withdrawing her from the theatre. You
really must do something."

Mrs. Mirrables was the only human being

whom Ethel permitted to discuss this affair.
Perhaps it was necessary for her to have
some one to whom she could speak of what
was always in her thoughts.

'* Something ! What can I do ?"

'' You ought not to bear his treatment'

How can I help bearing it ?"

'' Resent it."

"How?"

Take a leaf out of his book."

'^ Lola !"

Oh ! I don't mean really — I Sto I

Of course I don't mean that, Ethel, so you
needn't look so proud and offended. No !
Of course there is nothing for it but to
submit ; and when he has got tired of
Mile. Vender, welcome him back as if
nothing had happened. Only this plan
hasn't quite answered hitherto."

Ethel said nothing, and soon changed the
conversation with an imperious air which
always angered Mrs. Mirrables, but to
which that scheming little lady thought it

prudent to submit. What her scheme
just at present was she would have found



it difficult clearly to define ; only one thing
was clear — the breach between this couple
must be made as wide as possible. There
was little fear of the actress mania lasting
very long, she thought; the grand thing
to provide against was a recurrence
of the domesticity mania, which, to do him
justice, had not afflicted our dandy husband
for very long.

But before she took her departure, to
hurry back to her piteous solitude — whereby
the way, she generally received about
a dozen men between the hours of five and
seven — Ethel said :

"What did you mean, Lola, about —
about my resenting it ?"

'^ Oh, nothing."

"But you did mean something. You
said I might take a leaf "

Out of his book ; but then I was speaking
thoughtlessly. You could not do it,

VOL. II. N

even though it meant nothing, and even if
it were certain to bring him to his senses.
You're too good for him, my love ; that's
where ifc is. Goodness bores some men.
And I think it's catching. Since I have
known you, the one or two young men I
sometimes allow to call on me yawn horribly
; and I do my best to amuse them —
always tell them of my husband's last find
in the British Museum."

Ethel did not listen to the latter part of
this speech, which was perhaps lucky for
the continuance of her faith in Mrs. Miracles'
candour; and, when she was left
alone, sat for a long time immersed in
thought, going upstairs eventually to dress
for dinner with a very determined look
upon her pale face.

VIII.

Me. Seyward sat before his writing-table
in his sitting-room on the first floor in the

Grand Hotel, pen in hand, but seemed to
Lave much difficulty in putting it to paper.
He was writing to ask bis wife to send
him some money ; and it must be admitted
that such a letter was a little awkward to
frame.

A very large sum had been settled on
him, and it seemed almost necessary to
account for his wanting more, and to account
for it without palpable falsehood.
He could scarcely hope that no rumours of
his life in the gay city had reached Ethel's
ears ; and, let a wife be as patient as she
may, she is apt to dislike being asked to
pay for presents to another woman. Yet
creditors were pressing, and Nettie was
insatiable. To refuse her one whim was,
he felt, to lose her for ever; for were nota
Russian prince, a Swedish banker, and a
Parisian stock-jobber all ready, purse in
hand, to supplant him at the first opportunity
?

He vowed to himself that the penurious

n2

trio should be disappointed yet, and dipped
his pen in the ink again —

My dear Ethel,

I have been deuced unlucky
at baccarat lately. Can you let me have
Credit at the bank for a few thousands ?
Of course I will put it right very soon, as
indeed I have nothing to complain of as to
your great generosity. I'm rather in a fix
just now. Five thou, would do capitally,
and then I can square up here and be back
with you in London very soon. Do you
know, I am beginning to think town life is
rather a mistake after all, and shall be glad
when we find ourselves at dear old Grey-ton.
With much love (in great haste, as
the post is going),

Your affectionate husband,

'' Harry."

Not a bad letter, he thought, and not so
very untrue after all. He would like to goto
Greyton ; he would like to get out of the

bustle of Paris and a life of excitement —
if it were not for Nettie Vender's saucy
smile.

The answer came by return of post : —

''My dear Harry,

"You can draw for £1,000 at
the bank. I would say more, but, unfortunately,
I have been spending a great
deal of money, too, lately — and am hard
up, too.

I'm just off to Maidenhead — so goodbye.


Yours affectionately,

'ethel.

Pes. — I don't quite agree with you
about Greyton. It seems to me we were
as dull as ditch-water there. Very possibly
I may go abroad with Lady Partaker
and a party she is getting together at the
end of the season. So don't alter your
plans at all for me."

She, who was so careful, so absurdly

careful, lie had thought, about money
matters, bard up ! It was astounding I
And talking of going abroad with Lady
Barsaker and " a party she is getting up !"
Lady Barsaker, the fastest of a set that
Ethel had always held in detestation ! Harry
pulled his moustache in profound perplexity,
and was so dull that evening that Miss
Vender began seriously weighing the comparative
merits of the Prince, the banker,
and the stock-jobber.

Then a few days afterwards he read in
the papers of a grand midnight out-of-door
party given by the Remorse Club, and in
the list of the Ladies' Committee there was
his wife's name ! Some kind friend, too,
sent him a copy of the Publico Pryer with
a pencil-mark in the margin opposite this-paragraph
: —

Harry, mon cher, two can play at that
game. You had better come home to
your chimney-corner before it is quite full
and there is no room for any more. In

heaven's name give the lady one grand
parting present, and do not let us be
shocked on both sides of the Channel at
the same time. Did you ever hear of the
boy who tried to sit on two stools at once?"

It certainly was very puzzling. Ethel's
letters, which had been, if sad and short,
pretty regular, had ceased entirely ; and,
were it not for the fashionable intelligence,
and an occasional letter from a friend, he
would not have known whether she was
still in London or not.

But at last, as a climax to the whole
mystery, came a huge envelope, ornamented
with the gorgeous monogram
affected by the Duchess of Stornaway, who
had only written to him once before in her
life, and that was to congratulate him on
his engagement to the heiress.

Thus ran the missive : —

My dear Harry,

'' The Duke and I have been

Speaking of you this morning, and lie
thinks it well that I should write you a
line to beg you to return at once to London.
I will not ask what has kept you so
long away, nor blame you for such extraordinary
proceedings as remaining months
at an hotel in Paris, while your wife is
entertaining in London, for I detest scandal,
and I am not fond of scolding ; but I
will say that, unless you do return now,
you will show yourself lost to all sense of
decency and of respect for your name or
family.

'* Your presence by your wife's side is
absolutely required to stop what ill-natured
people here are saying of her. Although
I have been terribly disappointed in her
character, which I thought so very different
I will not put the whole blame of what has
happened upon her. She is young and
handsome, and fond of Society, and you —
you insist on remaining in Paris and behaving
as if you were unmarried. Do not

be SO mad as to reject my advice. Remember,
you have a family and a name to
think of, and come home at once.

'* Your affectionate aunt,

Anne Stornaway."

The whole blame of what has happened
!" What had happened, and how
could any blame attach to her ? " Fond
of Society I" What was the stupid old
Duchess thinking of ? Nevertheless, it
certainly behoved him to go and see what
all this meant; and that very night he
announced to Mademoiselle Vender that
he was recalled to London on business.

And as he came without that tiara she
had set her heart upon, and she happened
to be in a bad temper for other reasons —
the applause the night before having been
decidedly less vehement than usual — she
made up her mind on the spot to depose
him and to set up the Eussian Prince in
his stead.

Harry Seyward, flying down to Calais
by the night mail, never dreamed that he
was one of those unfortunate beings — a
monarch without a crown.

IX.

The butler at Prince's Gate was too good
a servant ever to be taken by surprise, and
helped his master to divest himself of his
great-coat on arrival in the grey dawn — a
telegram having preceded him over-night
with his usual solemn urbanity. Nevertheless,
in his heart of hearts, Mr. Hopkins
was very much astounded by a good many
things just then — by his master's sudden
arrival not more than by certain strange
proceedings on the part of his mistress,
and by the mysterious behaviour of late
adopted by her maid, to whom it maybe
remembered the worthy man was
affianced.

"Mrs. Seyward not up yet, I suppose?"

Not come home yet, sir."

Not come home ! Where from ?"

There was a ^ bal mask ' at the
Hurleyburley Club at Richmond last night,
and Mrs. Seyward said she thought she'd
be late."

Harry's astonishment showed itself by a
low whistle.

'' Late ! well, it is rather late. Get me
some breakfast, Hopkins."

Yes, sir. Beg pardon, sir," went on
the man, glancing through the hall window,
"but here is the carriage come back,
sir."

There was a thundering rap at the door
close to his head, and Harry involuntarily
drew back as it opened and there entered
an apparition ! His wife, dressed in a
classical costume which — well, which might
have suited Nettie Vender in opera-bouffe,
and which, whatever its quality, was not
very much for quantity — with her chestnut
locks streaming

Like a meteor to the troubled air,"

lier eyes glowing apparently with the
recollections of past excitement, and —
wonder of wonders ! — with distinct patches
of rouge upon either cheek. She turned
at the entrance of the hall, and her husband
then perceived that a fine gentleman,
splendidly costumed as a Charles II.
dandy, was getting out of the carriage
after her.

'' Get in again, Jack !" she cried, '' they'll
take you home. Thomas, go to Captain
Carkey's lodgings in Jermyn Street. Goodnight."


Then the carriage, with the cavalier
therein, drove away, the hall door banged
to, and Mrs. Seyward swept across the
hall without perceiving that her husband
was standing there, dumb with astonishment.
At last, just as she reached the
stairs, he found his voice.

Ethel "

Oh, you have come back ?" she said,

wish careless good-humour. " How are
you ? Not rough crossing, I hope ? I
shan't get up till the afternoon, and I dine
with Lady Barsaker. Pity you didn't let
me know you were coming back, or I could
have arranged for you to come too."

And, with a little nod, she went up to
her room, humming to herself an air from
the very opera in which Nettie Vender had
first made herself famous in London.

X.

"My dear Lola, you must be able to tell me
something to explain this mystery."

My dear Harry, there is no mystery,
except in your imagination, and, if there
were, I don't see why you should expect
me to be able to explain it."

No mystery in my wife — the quietest
woman in England, as I thought — suddenly
becoming rackety, fast, talked of,
vulgar, over, or under, dressed (I scarcely

know which expresses it) — a friend of
Lady Barsaker, lier name coupled with
that of Jack Carkey, compared with whom
I am an angel of light. No mystery !"

Precious little !" exclaimed Mrs. Miracles,
with that servants'-hall slang which
is now so much affected upstairs. ^' Your
wife, like a good many wives, was in love,
€r thought she was in love, with her husband
; her husband, like a good many
husbands, thought he would go and gather
roses elsewhere, keeping all the time the
little rose at home for his very own ; and
the little rose at home found that there
were people besides her roving husband
who were fond of roses other than those
which legally belonged to them, and, like
a sensible rose, didn't choose to waste her
sweetness upon a husband's empty chair.
There isn't a bit of mystery in it. It's
only another case of the biter bit."

But I never did bite, Lola."

No," she said, with rather a scornful
flash of her eyes. '' No, bat you barked a
great deal, and this time you have barked
your shins. Don't look so glum, man.
Surely you don't mind ? Imitation is the
sincerest form of flattery, and it would
have been an insult to your teaching and
example if your wife had stuck to her
schools and parsons."

I'm not glum, Lola. Why should I
be glum? Only I can't understand it.
She was so — so exactly the sort of woman
who couldn't do these things."

So unlike me, eh ?"

'' Well, there wasn't much resemblance,
and how you became friends is another
mystery."

"Extremes meet, Mr. Seyward."

Surely your influence could not "

'^ My influence! Good heaven, Henry,
I believe you are a fool ! Do you think I
could have any influence over this stiff-starched
woman ?"

*^ Stiff, is she, and starched ? I think
Jack Carkey "

"Jack's a very nice fellow, and you
needn't abuse him. I intended — no matter
our dear Ethel has cut me out. And I
certainly can not call her stiff and starched
now."

*' Though she is to me. I wonder
whether a woman's brain "

*pooh !" cried Mrs. Mirrables, snapping
her pretty fingers with a laugh. *' She's
sane enough — sane enough to pay you out
in your own coin, and to like doing it, my
friend — to like doing it."

I'll stop it, though," said Harry, jumping
up. " I'm not going to stand that sort
of thing. The idea of me "

'' The idea of you — the lady-killer of
London par excellence — being made to
endure what you have so often made
others endure ! But seriously, my dear
Harry," she went on, seeing that he was
looking very black, 'you must be as

philosophical now as you always used to be
about others, I mean. You like having
some fun ; so does she. You voluntarily
stopped the treacle and love business ;
and as soon as she had got over her fit of
childishness she saw things in your light
and followed your example. I think you
both ought to be very happy. And as, of
course, she had to choose some one, how
could she have chosen better that Jack
Carkey ?"

''D— n JackCarkey!"

Gently. Just what many men, married
men, have said of you. But d — n him or
not as you like, I ask you whom else you
would have wished her to choose?"

"Really, Lola, you are talking nonsense.
What I may have said or done in old days
is quite different. I don't want my wife
to make a fool of herself and of me."

According to our code, my dear Harry
the code we have often discussed — she
is not making a fool of herself; and as to

VOL. II. o

you — well, with Mile. — what's her name?
Nettie Vender — yoa can easily console
yourself."

Nettie Vender has nothing to do with
it. These things are quite different in a
woman from what they are in a man."

*' Are they?"

Of course they are."

I wonder whether Mr. Mirrables
thought so last year ?"

Last year, Lola," said Harry, with no
loss of composure, but still angry; 'last
year there were a few things I did not
know, or knew imperfectly."

'nonsense !"

*' This year is what is the question. I
went away "

'' To Mile. Vender."

I went away leaving my wife, if a
little too fond of dull things, such as
schools and churches, and working men's
clubs, still about the best wife a man like

me could have. I come back and find
her "

'find her doing the same, or about the
same, as you have been doing. That's
about it, isn't it ? Ah ! my friend, you
must accept the role of a husband after all ;
but, for the sake of our old friendship,
don't let it be that of a jealous husband."

Jealous !" shouted poor Harry, indignant.
" I'm not jealous. Jealous of Jack
Carkey ! But I am determined to put a
stop to all this ; and I come to you, as my
only woman friend, to see whether you can
help me, and you only give me your silly
sneers."

I learned my philosophy from you,
Harry," said Mrs. Mir rabies, in the soft
tone which had done such execution when
detailing her femme incomprise woes into
the ears of sympathising males.

"It was the philosophy of frivolity, of
amusement, Lola — it does not affect such

o 2

earnestness as Ethel throws into her new
pursuits."

'' I£ you do a thing at all, do it
thoroughly," said Lola, sententiously. " I
never could act up to that axiom myself,
or else "

'' Or else what?" he asked.

Or else perhaps I shouldn't be hereunder
dear John's roof listening to
you."

Harry had a dim recollection of a
certain evening at Buckingham, when, after
a good deal of champagne and much
looking into his companion's expressive
eyes, he had asked Mrs. Mirrables to
fly with him to where there was no
constraint and no Mr. Mirrables (not
in the least meaning the proposition to betaken
in earnest — as indeed it was not),
and said nothing. But he was dimly
conscious of the fact that Lola was looking
very pretty sitting on her sofa with her
ugly pug as a foil beside her ; and that her

mockery was softened by a pleasing
undercurrent of flattery and sympathy.

What the deuce am I to do, Lola ?"
he asked, sitting down beside her.

We will not trouble ourselves with her
answer; suffice it that he stayed on till
the dressing-bell rang, and then, hurrying
home, was just in time to meet his wife
coming downstairs to dinner.

Don't wait, Ethel," he said, as he ran
up to his room.

*' Certainly not," she replied, in the cold
measured accent she always gave him.
now. " Certainly not; I am going to the
French play with Lady Barsaker, so I cannot
wait. You can come in later, if you like."

She had nearly finished her slight
repast when he came down, annoyed, more
than he would have owned even to himself,
by her carelessness of his comfort ;
so markedly in contrast with her former
-care for his every small whim in small
things.

'' Will you come to our box ?"

Who is going ?"

Only Lady Barsaker and Lord Fits
and — and that's all."

'' That's all, is it ?"

*' That's all. Will you ring and ask
whether the brougham has come ? I must
go and get my cloak. It is nearly eight
already."

He ate the cold entree meditatively. There
must be an end to this state of things, which
had now gone on for more than three
weeks. To live with a woman who cared
no more for him than she did for the
pictures on the wall was a new and unpleasant
experience for our Don Juan, and
not to be borne.

Do you mean to come to the box ?
I wish you would say yes or no, for we
can get some one else if you won't."

Look here, Ethel," said her husband,
stopping her as she was about to leave the

room, and closing the door against the
curious ears of the servant outside, '' I
have had enough of this sort of thing,
and "

Of course," said Mrs. Seyward, in her
haughtiest and most indifferent accents,
*' of course you have. I forgot how much
you had been to the slay in Paris and
Vienna. But, you see, I have not had
your opportunities. Will you let me pass,
please ? I promised Lady Barsaker topick
her up at eight. Well, we won't
keep a place in the box. Thank you.
Good night."

Despite himself and his anger, which was
hot within him, he obeyed her imperious
gesture and opened the door for her to
sail out, looking, as he could not help
owning, the handsomest woman he had
ever seen.

Before he had eaten many more mouthfuls
the last postman came and rapped his

eventful double-knock at the door, and a
letter with the Paris postmark was put
into Harry's hand : —

'' MoN CHER Ami,

'' You see I am at Paris. In
another day I shall be in your detestable
town. I have accepted a season's engagement
in the French plays, for I grew sick
of Vienna, and — and perhaps I wanted to
see you again.

Bottoloffski has gone to St. Petersburg,
to his wife, I believe. They say she
has influence with the Czar, and he was
ordered home on peril of Siberia ; but I
know not. Delafosse has given me a
magnificent necklace ; the stones are — but
you shall see them.

''He — Delafosse — cannot get away from
the Bourse, or he would have come to
London. But — acres tout, I shall be very
glad to see you again, Harry."

And so on. A short time ago he would

have been in ecstatics at the recall of the
Eussian Prince and the inability of the
stockbroker to leave Paris ; but now, although
of course, as he said to himself,
Nettie amused him infinitely, still how
uncommonly handsome and well-bred his
wife had looked that night as she sailed so
scornfully past him !

"By Jove !" said Harry to himself, " 111
just look in at the theatre after all. There's
sure to be room."

But there was not much room, for Captain
Carkey was long in the limb, while
Lady Barsaker's cavalier was also of huge
proportions, and the box was small.

Not so small was it, however, as Harry
Seyward felt after spending ten minutes
there, during which he was adroitly made
by the other four to feel like an interloper.


One whisper indeed Lady Barsaker, with
whom he had once been intimate enough,
vouchsafed him behind her fan when the

others were all deeply interested in the
stage business.

"Don't spoil sport, Harry."

"Spoil sport!" he gasped, for this was
sufficient to astonish even him.

No, you of all people shouldn't. By
the by, shes coming here, I hear. Why
didn't you tell us ? Perhaps it's lucky we
chose to-night to come here, eh ?" And
her ladyship glanced across the box at
Ethel, who was just at that moment laughing
at one of Captain Carkey's witticisms,
for Captain Carkey was an acknowledged
wit.

Harry, whose philosophy was not so
deep as he had imagined when it was only
tried by the misfortunes of others, ground
his teeth, and soon left the box and went
to '' Pratt's " in so bad a temper that even
the mild beings who spend their evenings
at cribbage in the corner of that historical
kitchen could almost have quarrelled with

him in the intervals of countino'tlieir '' one

CD

for his nob."

XI.

This tale, which has no merit except that
of being strictly true, has covered so much
more pander than was intended at its commencement,
that we must be excused if we
hurry a little over its closing lines. Mademoiselle
Nettie Vender came to London as
advertised, and appeared in the French
comedies that were delighting the West
End world of London. She sang delicious
little songs, specially interpolated for her,
which old Lady Atherton declared were
agonizing in their sweetness, and which a
serio-comic poet described in the Morning
Telegraph as " touching with their playful
pathos and half-sad coquetry;" and great
ladies were not ashamed to send their
maids to the dress-circle to take note of

lier ever-changing, ever-wonderful costumes.


Harry Seyward ought to have been a
proud man. Everyone envied him ; and
so great was the desire of " the best people "
to have Mile. Vender in their houses that
they got up quite a sad sentimental history
of her attachment to our hero ; and even
the Duchess of Stornoway felt that in this
case, for some mysterious reason, the usual
standard of British morality might be a
little departed from. All the time Harry
himself was in the position of a man gradually
recovering his sight and senses. A
hundred things in the actress that before
had delighted him as pretty originalities
now struck him as simply vulgar. The
paint on her face, the powder on her hands,
even the ready repartee, all began to disgust
him. Do what he would he could not
help comparing her with his own wife, who
was with Captain Carkey probably at the
very moment he was thinking of her. It

was infamous ! No — by the way — not sa
very; for was not he with Miss Nettie?
But that was different.

Lucky dog!" said old Bobby Smedhurst,
who was privileged to say anything he
chose, "you have a friend to give you
happiness abroad, and another friend to
ensure you peace at home. Lucky dog !"

And the lucky dog slunk off to the
Bingham Hotel, where Mile. Vender was
lodged in much splendour, feeling more
like a schoolboy going to his daily task
than a smart man of fashion pursuing a
splendid success. It was an expensive
amusement too. Nettie was accustomed
to Eussian Princes and Parisian bankers
and stock-jobbers, and partook to a large
extent of the qualities attributed to that
daughter of a horse-leech of whom we have
all read ; and Mr. Sey ward was not a man
to have much spare money to spend. To
run up enormous bills for his wife to pay
seemed mean, especially when he thought

that probably Carkey would look over them
and perhaps advise as to their settlement.
Altogether, although no doubt it was rather
pleasant to have his name associated with
that of the beautiful actress of whom all
men and women talked, still there was a
crumple or two in the rose-leaf.

The Season began to wane ; the French
plays were approaching their end, when
Ethel announced to her husband that she
intended to go to Homburg with Lady
Barsaker.

And who else ?" he asked.

'' Lord Barsaker, I suppose."

"Lord Barsaker never stirs from Bear-acre,
as you know. You mean his Lordship's
proxy — I forget who that is just
now. Who else?"

I'm sure I don't know or care''

"Jack Carkey, perhaps?"

Perhaps. Lucy Barsaker has not told

me exactly whom lie has asked to come
with us, but of course we must have two
men to look after us."

^^AndGreyton?"

Oh, Grey ton may take care of itself, or
you can go there if you like."

Thank you."

'' Where does Mademoiselle Vender go
when she leaves the theatre here ?"

'* I don't know."

"Oh!"

The contemptuous incredulity she threw
into this monosyllable was grand — worthy,
of Miss Vender herself.

"I am to sing at Birmingham, Liverpool,
Manchester, Dublin — all sorts of
horrid places," said the actress to him a
few hours later ; 'you will come ?"

He thought of that " Oh !" of his wife,
and made answer —

Yes, of course I will come."

But, nevertheless, he hated the idea of

another long absence from — from wliatr
From England, from Greyton, or, could it
be — from bis wife's side ?

Mrs. Mirrables, whom be met at a party
that night, consoled bim prettily.

"It's much better so, Harry. Of course
your business with this actress won't last
for ever, neither will Ethel's with Jack.
But, when a split must come, it's better to
have it over and done with. You each go
your own way now without any bother or
jealousies, and — and, Harry, if ever you
want a quiet talk by the chimney corner,
and perhaps a word or two of sympathy,
you know you will always find me in Park
Street."

And Lola gave her most dangerous look,
which she might just as well have spent
upon a brick wall.

For — it is of no use our trying to keep
the secret any longer from our discerning
readers — Harry Seyward had fallen hopelessly
in love with his own wife !

XII.

By a coincidence — if there be such a thin
in this world of predestination — it happened
that the day chosen by Mrs. Sey-ward
for her start for Homburg was the
same day on which Mr. Seyward was to
escort Mademoiselle Tender to Liverpool.

Of course there was much packing the
day before in Prince's Gate, and there was
not much time for the husband and wife to
exchange many words. At lunch there
were the usual amount of people who liked
Harry's dry sherry — Captain Carkey among
the number — and after lunch Ethel started
off on a round of farewell calls, tempered
by much shopping. Harry roamed about
the streets for some time irresolute and
unhappy. The latter was a new feeling to
him, and it angered him as the first fit of
gout does. It seemed to him that the next
day the door would be irrevocably closed
on the possibility of an explanation with
his wife ; as if, once they went their re-vol.

II. P

respective roads, those roads could never
meet again.

And she had never looked so queen-like,
so entirely a woman that a man might be
proud to call his own, as she did that day
among her guests at luncheon. Her ease
of manner was so different from the wild
familiarity of Nettie Vender's. Her low
soft laugh was so sweet compared with the
other's rather shrill gaiety. And yet — he
was her husband, and Captain Jack Carkey
it made his blood boil, and even as his
blood was boiling he called a Hansom and
drove to the Lans^ham Hotel. Here a
surprise awaited him.

Ha, Harry !" said Nettie, nodding to
him as he entered, but continuing her
occupation, which was the unusual one of
writing a letter, " I was going to send you
a note. All my plans are altered. I have
refused to sign the agreement for the
nasty provinces. I am going to take a
holiday — a holiday in Italy."

And you clout want me to come ?" ex*
'Claimed Harry, trying to throw dismay
into his voice, but feeling like a reprieved
criminal.

Nettie was a little embarrassed — only a
little, she was accustomed to these things.

Well, mon cJier^ no. The fact is, weare
both getting a little tired of each
other; not our fault — nature. And we
shall meet much more agreeably in a few
months' time."

*' I suppose the Prince has obtained
leave from his wife and the Czar to come
back from Russia ?" said Harry, sarcastically.


You have guessed it," she cried, clapping
her hands. '' How quick you are !
His wife is dead, at least, so the didn't want
leave from her ; and he is to be in Paris to
meet me on Tuesday. Oh ! how I should
have detested Liverpool and Manchester !"

With me ?" This with some pathos,
for Harry thought he ought at least to be

r2

thrown over, even for the richest prince in
Russia, with some show of decency.

With anyone, my dear. You are not
offended ?"

She went on writing as she asked the
question.

*' Not the least. And the bill here — the
Prince pays, I suppose ?"

The pen stopped.

Ah ! La note. No ; will you see about
that, Harry, and about the payment for
the horses and carriages and things ?
That's a good child."

And when do you start ?"

Mon Dieu ! Immediately. I have
time for nothing — not even for you. If
you only knew the things I have to do ! I
declare I wish dress had never been invented
!"

"So do I," said Harry, with some sincerity,
remembering sundry dressmakers'
accounts he had lately been called upon to
settle.

And then, with his purse, perhaps his
heart also, considerably lightened, he went
to his Club, and eventually, after dining
there, for his wife dined with Lady Bar-sake,
back to Prince's Gate.

And as he sat in his room at the back,
and smoked, with the last edition of the
Globe on his lap, he thought of many
things ; but chiefly of a certain day when
he had forgotten that Ethel Erie was an
heiress, and only remembered she was a
sweet honest woman who loved him.

Worldliness and cynicism do not flourish ■
in solitude, and the natural good that was
in the man came to the surface as he sat
there alone, with the blue wreaths of smoke
around him ; as he sat there alone like any
ordinary unhappy husband — like poor John
Mirrables, for instance — and wished and
regretted, and did all but hope.

He started as he heard a knock at the
front door, and stood up irresolutely when
he heard his wife's accents in the passage,

giving the servant some order for tomorrow.


He heard her words — they were about
her departure by the early train. He
opened his door just as she was going past
it, and called her'' Ethel !"

Only her name ! The servants were
still in the hall, closing the front door.
Only her name ! But there was something
in his accent that made her pause,
and caused her colour to come and go as
she stood there.

^' Ethel!"

The servants had gone downstairs. She
came to his room half unwillingly.

He said not another word. She looked
up into his face, and saw that tears were
in his eyes. She saw that he held out his
arms, and in another moment she was
clasped to his breast.

'' Forgive me, wife !"

Say that again — not about forgiveness-but
the word ivife ! Say that again !"

My wife !"

'' Oh, Harry 1"

There was a long pause.

I am a scoundrel," he said at last; and
then she looked up into his face.

*^No — you are — my husband! Oh,
Harry, did you believe in all that about — •
about Captain Oarkey ?

No," said he, but with a gulp.

You must have. I was acting — I have
been acting all the while. I hated it all ;
I loathed Captain Carkey. He said a
thing to me to-day which — which nearly,
drove me mad to hear ; but I had begun
my plan — my wretched plan — and — and
I couldn't stop."

"You love me still?"

Still. Why do you think I have done
all this — even painted my face," she
exclaimed, with a spasmodic rub at it with
her handkerchief, '' except for one reason ?
But, Harry, I couldn't have gone on with it ;
I couldn't have kept up my friendship for

Lady Barsaker and all those horrid people
any longer. I should have died of
it all."

*sand you didn't like Carkey?" asked
Harry, still bewildered.

^* I hated him all along ; but he was the
first man I happened to meet after I — after
I had determined to try and — to try and

be more like you " she added, with a

shy smile.

He kissed her lips. " So it was a
plot?"

Yes ; it was wicked, wasn't it ? — but I

I Oh, Harry, are you going to

Liverpool with that woman?"

No. Are you going to Homburg with
that man ?"

After this !" she said, putting an arm
round his neck. '^ Do you know that I
couldn't have gone anyhow ? I felt that
to-night I must have broken down and
implored you to come to me again, my
darling ! I was stupid and dull with you

before — about Greyfcon schools and things
when I ought to have amused you and
been more of a companion to you. But
and my heart seemed breaking to-night
when I heard you say Ethel somehow I
felt that — that my heart needn't break
after all !"

I am not worthy of you, Ethel !"

Of me ! — of the woman all London is
talking of for her flirting and painting !
I am not as pretty as Miss Vender, I know
—but "

'' Never say such things, my love ! You
are the best and the most beautiful woman
in the world ! How could lever have left
you for a moment !"

Because I was so dull and cold Harry.
And now — we can't stay in London — where
shall we go tomorrow ? To Paris ?"

No ; to Grey ton. I want to help you
to look after the schools."

"• But you will be so bored. There will
be nothing for you to do !"

*' I want to have nothing to do, Ethel, but
to look into your sweet eyes and to hear a
hundred times a day from your sweet lips
that you forgive me, and that you love me
and not Captain Carkey !"

KILSHEELAH

Then the late Earl of Quorn was gather
ed to his fathers, dying, no doubt (his
Lordship's spiritual adviser said so), in the
odour of sanctity, but certainly also in the
odour of brandy — for his Lordship's disease
would have been called " delirium tremens"
in a lesser mortal — shrewd mothers, with
little girls learning their Mangnall's Questions
in the school-room, made mental notes to the
effect that the Quorn estates were amongst
the largest in England, and that the young
earl had a minority of some ten years, in which

a sum of ready money might be amassed
which would certainly make him, on attaining
the magic age of twenty-one, the richest
young Peer that could be found. And of
the fact of his importance the boy was
never suffered to be oblivious. Governesses,
tutors, servants, relations all dinned into
his poor little head what a great personage
he was. At Eton — though the boys might
kick him — the masters bowed down ; at
Oxford he quickly was surrounded by a
circle of admiring and dirt-eating toadies,
who were ready to call his clouds weasels,
or whales, or' anything else his grandeur
chose to assume them to be.

From morning to night there was one
chorus of adulation and flattery around him ;
and by his mother (who had been a great
beauty, and who was supposed to have had
a history in her youth — a history that
Society had prudently forgotten) he was
taught not only to despise, but to take the

utmost advantage of, the willingness of his
brother mortals to be kicked. True, he
sometimes seemed to be inclined to run out
of the groove, and there was terrible
excitement in the family and all its branches
(which, as everyone knows, embrace half
the Peerage), when it became known that
young Reginald had expressed his absolute
determination to wed a young lady he had
encountered at a fair which was held near
his private tutor's — a young lady who
enacted the principal part in the ten minutes'
dramas which were performed in the caravan
theatre.

He was then seventeen, and the girl about
the same age, and they had billed, and
cooed, and kissed in the summer evenings
for some little time before the discovery
was made by the tutor. Then young Quorn
showed his teeth, threatened to kick the
reverend gentleman if he wrote to Lady
Quorn, and finally, when he found that even

this strong measure could not prevent it,
wrote to her himself, and boldly declared
his intention.

Then when a separation between the
young couple had been effected — a separation
the more complete as Jenny could not
write — he vowed that nothing should prevent
him, when once his own master, from
seeking her out and conferring on her his
august hand. But the powers were too
strong for him. Whether Jenny was sent
to America, or exterminated, or sold into
slavery, he did not know : she disappeared
entirely, and with that last kiss, snatched
amid a profusion of sobs in the little lane
behind the fair green, vanished Quorn's first,
perhaps his purest, bit of romance.

Of course the tutor lost his lucrative pupil,
and — poor man — he turned in revenge upon
the cause of his misfortune, and had a great
deal to do with the putting down of the
fair where Jenny had shown her too seductive
charms to the young nobleman.

At College young Quorn seemed determined
to exhaust all the pleasures and
excitements of life ; to anticipate his entrance
into the real world. Terrible stories were
told of his gambling, drinking, and other
excesses which will not bear the light.
Perhaps half was true, and certainly the
young gentleman who at twenty startled all
London by making his debut as the winner
of nearly a hundred thousand pounds on
the Derby had very little of the tyro in him,
nor needed much initiation into " life."

Living in the fierce light that beats upon.
a titled millionaire, every action of his was
magnified and distorted. Those who personally
liked him, or who hoped to get
anything from him, formed one party who
vowed he was perfection ; the general bulk
of Society, who thought " the line should be
drawn somewhere, you know," took delight
in retailing fearful tales of him in Club and
drawing-room, but was uncommonly civil to
him notwithstanding.

VOL. II. Q

That there were ladies living at his expense
in most of the capitals of Europe ;
that his doings when on a tour in India
were too awful for Christians to name ; that
he had already had two attacks of delirium
tremens ; that he employed his wealth for
the basest uses; that he had murdered a
husband in Italy; that he had caused the
suicide of a girl in France — such things as
these were said of him as a matter of course ;
and scarcely a week passed without one of
those newspapers which our civilization has
produced, for the purpose of ministering to
the desire of ladies and gentlemen to be
notorious, publishing a thinly veiled allusion
to him, with some new scandal evolved from
the editor's inner consciousness, but amusing
enough all the same.

At first Quorn, surprised and taken aback
at the disagreeable fame thus thrust upon
him, protested that, if he had his faults, he
was not worse than others of his kind and
class. No. Society had made up its mind

to have a magnificent monster, and who
would act the part better than this good-looking
young man, with his contempt for
les convenances and his unlimited purse and
grand position ?

Then he became disgusted, and ended by
surrounding himself with a little court of
adroit, if somewhat vulgar, parasites, who
kept the outer world from his majesty, and
amid whose endless chorus of praise he was
content to live — like the fabled beast who
puts his head in the sand to escape detection.


He gave himself up — or seemed to give
himself up — to purely animal pleasures.
His racing stud was the largest in the kingdom
; he took a pack of hounds ; he yacht ;
he shot stags and grouse in Scotland, pheasants
and partridges by the cart-load at his
places in Norfolk and elsewhere. His fondness
for reading, which more than one of
his tutors had hoped would be the saving
of him, seemed to have evaporated. 



rounded by his little court of toadies, he
lounged through life in the best of everything
; cold, impenetrable, now and then
rather troubling his satellites by flashes of a
disdainful wit they did not understand, but
open-handed and very careless as to the
little liberties they took with his purse and
house, as long as he was never thwarted in
the smallest particular. His hatred of opposition
had almost become a mania, and a
moment of forgetfulness, when the natural
man for an instant asserted itself over the
toady, had cost many an unfortunate the
entree to Quorn House and all the other
palaces where the young nobleman dispensed
what the papers call a '' princely
hospitality." And, indeed, such a host had
never been seen before. When you stayed
with him in Leicestershire, two horses were
daily sent on for you as naturally as you
were given your breakfast. Should you
wish to drive you ordered your coach, or
phaeton, or dog-cart, as if the stables were

jours. When you went to shoot with him
there was no necessity to take cartridges ;
and what luncheons that caravan-like cart
used to bring out to refresh the sportsmen
wearied with over-shooting !

Special trains everywhere for himself
and his friends were a matter of course ; did
one of the charmed circle wish to go anywhere
out of the way, one of the yachts was
put at his orders immediately; was one of
these lucky persons in a temporary difficulty,
he had only to name the sum and the
cheque was written. As some one said at
the Club, '' Quorn has raised the character
of toadyism, for he has made its reward
only second to the reward for piety." And
if his courtiers were not perhaps of the very
first refinement, they were, at any rate, quite
capable of appreciating the joys of the position
they had attained.

It may be imagined what consternation
was caused among them when the rumour
at first scouted as preposterous — grew to

certainty, by announcement in the Morning
Post, "Lord Quorn was engaged to be
married to Lady Hilda Charles."

II.

Bet you two to one it doesn't come off,"
said one young gentleman to another in the
M Club.

Can't bet on a certainty. Jonson told
me yesterday that the day was fixed."

But Q.'s bolted."

"Bolted? No. He goes away — no one
knows where — for three months every year.
He caught some one — Thunder it was, I
think — trying to find out where he went
last year, and poor Toddy's lost his berth at
Quorndale for good. They say he heard
him asking questions of his valet and kicked
him downstairs."

Bet you I know where he goes."

Where ?"

To his wife."

*' His wife !" There was a general chorus
of astonishment.

Yes ; don't you remember that story
about the girl he tried to marry when he
was at a tutor's ? Bet you six to four he's
married her, and that's where he goes."

*' He might go to her without so much as
all that," said another.

*' Oh, he's one of your infernally unprincipled
fellows who always do these conscientious
things ! They are so wicked, they
are afraid of their conscience, you know."

Bet you three to one Q. has not got a
conscience," put in the sporting youth.

But about Lady Hilda," said a man with
regular features, curly chestnut hair, and an
exquisitely neat and well got-up figure,
approaching the group; "what on earth
does she do it for ?"

For ? Where's the new Doomsday
Book ? Why, Q.'s income must be at
least "

*' Oh, I know; but she might have done

nearly as well, I should have thought, without
taking him. He'll probably kill her ina
fit of D. T., and, as to the story of a wife
somewhere and his odd disappearances, I
am rather inclined to believe it."

"It'll be rather fine if the other lady
appears at the church and stops the ceremony.
I'm hanged if I won't go. But it
would be a bore for Lady Hilda."

I can't make out why Q. wants to
harry her."

Oh ! I believe they met at Coverdale
last year, and he was surprised at her not
throwing herself at his head like the rest,
and got piqued, and then I think he was
sorry for her with Lady Tip. I hear he
said he proposed for the novelty of being
snubbed ; but he didn't get it, for she took a
month to think it over and then wrote to
accept him. I expect she's a young woman
who knows what's what."

Hush !" murmured one, with a glance

at him of the chestnut hair and good
figure.

Oh, Jack Spang chucked it up long ago.
She wouldn't have him at any price — for all
his looks, poor Jack ! Ah ! here's Lord
Tipperary. I must congratulate you on
what I see here," pointing to the Morning
Post

Yes ; we're going to put her in double
harness," said Lord Tipperary, twirling his
splendid white moustache. " A devilish
good fellow Quorn, devilish good fellow.
I'm not a man to care for money, and all
that sort of thing ; but, of course, it's gratifying.
I never saw two young people so
much in love with one another. Any whist
going on ?"

'' Yes, they are asking for you."

And the Peer who had long puzzled the
world as to how he managed to play whist
for ** monkeys " and back horses for
*' thous " on his slender income — with so

expensive a wife, too — passed away to his
favourite amusement.

The man they had called Jack Spang,
after a fond look at his handsome face in
the glass over the mantel-piece, lounged
out of the Club, up St. James's Street,
nodding to many acquaintances, and taking
off his hat to many carriages as he
went along, and eventually rang the bell
at the door of a house in Dover Street.

Lady Tipperary at home ?"

'' Yes, sir."

"Oh, Captain Spang, I am so glad
you have called ; I wanted to ask you
about the poor X's. Is it true that she has
i^one ?"

Jack Spang did all that was required of
him in the way of gossip, but his eyes
wandered continually to the door, and at
last he gave his details so badly and with so
little artistic finish that her Ladyship rose,
evidently intending his visit to come to a
termination.

*' Lady Hilda is quite well ?" he asked,
twisting his hat about in his hands,
and looking less at ease with himself than
usual.

Very well, thank you, Captain Spang,"
said Lady Tipperary, coldly, 'rand very
happy. She is out now."

Of course so great a lady would not tell
what is called in the nursery a taradiddle,
but poor Jack felt sure, as he went mournfully
downstairs, that he heard a note
of the piano from the room which was
sacred to the Penates of the future Lady
Quorn.

And as he walked down Dover Street
he muttered something between his teeth
that was not complimentary, we fear, to the
Countess.

III.

The piano ceased playing, and Lady Hilda
came into the drawing-room. A lovely girl

you would have said at the first glance — upright,
graceful, dignified, with perfectly cut
features and large hazel eyes. Scarcely a
loveable girl you would have said at a second
glance. The look in the eyes was hard, the
expression of the lips was proud, contemptuous.
A girl you could not help admiring asa
work of art ; scarcely one you would care
to take to your home as a companion.

There was something about Lady Hilda
that seemed to deny her the ordinary
successes of an acknowledged beauty.
When she first came out people had raved
of her ; artists raved of her still ; and no
Academy Exhibition was perfect without a
counterfeit presentment of her features.

But, although she was "the fashion," nomen
— except poor Jack Spang, who had nota
sixpence — had ever wished to take her
and her beauty for their own. She seemed
to be isolated in her loveliness — to freeze
back the warm words that lesser beauties
called forth. Her third season had arrived,

and her rather was in despair. All the
expense of the London house, and the
dinners, and the one ball ; all the trouble
and the sitting up of nights and the little
ruses to catch elder sons — all for nothing.
Nothing caught in so fine a net except the
little minnow, Spang, who had, of course,
to be thrown back again as useless-lady
Tip, as her friends and her enemies
called her, was not one to take reverse
easily, however placidly her daughter might
bear her reproaches ; and the scenes between
the two, when at the end of the season the
bills came in and Lord Tipperary stormed
at their magnitude (though perhaps he had
lost or won double the amount on a racecourse
the day before), were not pleasant to
witness. But no one ever did witness
them ; for in public Lady Tip was a most
affectionate mother, and very proud of
"dear Hilda's determination not to marry
till she is really attached."

^' I have heard this evening from dear Reginald,"

said she, as her daughter came into
the room with that stately step of hers
which alone was enough to alarm most men
out of an offer.

'^ Oh !"

Have not you too ?" '

Yes ; I had a note from him."

And you never told me."

It scarcely matters, as you say you have
heard."

'well, you couldn't tell that. But, of
course, I must bear anything from you now.
After all I have done to bring this about,
the way I have worked to put you in the
position you now — thanks to me ! — are
in."

I think we have had enough of this,
mother. Having been given up as a failure,
I have now exceeded your proudest hopes.
Surely that may content you."

"Hilda, you are the most ungrateful
girl !"

Surely I am showing you my gratitude
now."

By treating me in this manner?"

By marrying Lord Quorn ?"

'' A great sacrifice, truly. You — a girl
who has had but one proposal in three
years — to turn up your nose at a manlike
that !"

I don't turn up my nose at him. I
like his position and his honey very much.
Only I don't like him ; and if Captain
Spang had only had just enough to live
upon I would never have accepted him, as
you know."

Captain Spang ! A snob like that !
Why, when he was here just now I couldn't
help comparing him with Reginald — the
handsomest, noblest "

"Stop, mamma. You are confusing him
with his bankers' book. As to Captain
Spang, I am perfectly aware that to accept
him would be madness ; but T tell you

plainly that I don't intend to get up any
enthusiasm about Lord Quorn. I will
marry him, if he chooses ; but before I do
so — to-night, as he has come back from his
mysterious hiding — I shall tell him exactly
the truth."

And spoil the whole thing, ruin your
whole prospects, and break your father's
heart I" almost shrieked poor Lady Tip.

Nothing is likely to do that except his
partner revoking, I should think," said the
girl, calmly, with that repressed scorn which
frightened everyone — even her mother.

'* But you will be civil to him — at least,
you will be nice and kind to him ? You
know you can't marry Captain Spang," she
pleaded, almost piteously. ''If it were to
be broken off now it would be so terrible.
People would say "

People would say," interrupted the girl,
almost fiercely, *' that he had thought better
of it ; that I hadn't played my cards quite
well enough ; that you and I were fools tolet

him get away. That's about what people
would say."

I never heard such horrible language !"
said Lady Tip. At that moment Lord
Quorn was shown in.

Acting from impulse, as he always did, he
had come straight from the railway to their
house ; but travel stains and careless, almost
slovenly clothes could not disguise the fact
that he was as fine-looking a young man as
you would find in a very long walk. Scarcely
noticing Lady Tip, whom he treated with a
careless unconcern that she vowed to have
her revenge for some day, he sat down at
once by Hilda's side on the sofa, and addressed
himself so entirely to her that soon
her mother thought it advisable to retire
and leave the young couple alone.

Hilda said but little, and listened with an
impassive smile to his queer, abrupt snatches
of conversation. At last he said —

*' Are you sorry the day is fixed ?"

No."

VOL. 11. R

"Well, it is always as well to know
exactly "

The day of execution," he said, finishing
her sentence for her, and laughing rather
bitterly.

"Exactly when one's things must be
ready," she went on, as if he had not
spoken.

He looked at her rather wistfully for a
moment. If he tried to divine her thoughts
he mis2^ht as well have looked at a statue.

Why do you marry me ?" he asked,
abruptly.

"Whydol "

"Yes. Do you love me? 'No, perhaps
that is a word of no significance now. Do
you care for me as a girl should care for the
man she is to marry ?"

He stood in front of her with folded
arms and a peculiar expression on his face.
Lady Hilda thought for a moment ere she

answered, and then said, in her usual calm,
cold tone —

I hope I shall do my duty as your wife,
Lord Quorn."

*' Do you hope that ? Duty ! A pretty
word for lovers. But a good word, too ;
and a good thing, duty. Look here, Hilda.
Of course I know what people say of me ;
but perhaps I'm not as black as I am painted.
I want to marry you because I must
marry ; they tell me it is my duty, and, this
being so (you see I am frank) — I like you
better than any other girl I have seen — I
think you will fill the position (as it is
called) better than any other I know. Tell
me your reasons."

You asked me whether I loved you.
No. Love and I have nothing to do with
one another, I think. I will be as frank as
you. I have accepted you because I must
marry — because (I know I can trust you) I
cannot live any longer with my mother,

11 2

whose worldliness sets my teeth on edge
hourly. Of course you may say that I am
the more worldly in doing this. Perhaps
you would be right. I have cared for a
man — whom it is impossible I should marry
and I have put him out of my thoughts.
I will marry you, if you like to take me,
because you are rich, and because you can
help my father and take me from a wretched
home."

And I accept your sacrifice, Hilda," he
said, taking her impassive hand in his. " It
is a purely business transaction, fitting to
our enlightened nineteenth century."

And there was sadness as well as bitterness
in his voice as he spoke.

IV.

A LITTLE cousin and old playfellow of
Hilda's, Emilia, had married a parson of
the name of Harrison McCorquodale, and
living in the wilds of Western Ireland,

where he had just obtained a cure of souls,
they were very glad of the house in Dover
Street when they came to town on an occasional
visit. These visits gave much annoyance
to Lady Tip, who hated doing a kindness
that did not bring its own reward with
it ; but Hilda knew how to get her own way
in small matters on which she had set her
heart, and the pretty, laughing face of
Emilia McCorquodale was very frequently
seen at their dinner and lunch-table during
the summer.

Emilia was an enthusiast, believing in her
husband, who prophesied the end of the
world, and wrote terrible diatribes against
the Pope, and raved about Ritualism,
Jesuits, and other horrors. She even believed
that she liked being shut up with
that estimable man in the damp and lonely
parsonage to which he had just been appointed.


You must come to Kilsheelah some day,
Hilda; it is the loveliest village you ever

saw — on the lake, you know ; and Mr
Harborough has made it a very Paradise."

And who is Mr. Harborough ?" asked
Hilda, patting her friend's silky hair.

Hilda was a woman who assumed, as a
matter of course, a kind of protective, petting
manner with other women who were
young and pretty — being one of the few
women who could honestly admire another
without a particle of jealousy or detraction.
Nay, she had a way of falling in love with
them in a manner aggravating for the other
sex to witness.

Mr. Harborough is a wonderful man,"
said Mr. McCorquodale, solemnly. " Perhaps
one of the most wonderful men I have
ever seen."

Oh, he's such a dear ! No one knows
anything of him, except that he is quite perfect
He came to Kilsheelah five years ago,
and took a tiny cottage ; and they say he
lives there on next to nothing, with an old
woman to look after him, and a few books

and a dog ! And the good he does ! At
first the priests interfered, but now they
know he won't try to worry the people
about their religion. The way he looks
after the old people and those that are ill !
He knows more than the doctors, and they
send for him ; and I believe he pays the
doctors not to mind ; and he reads to the
old people for days together, and nurses the
babies when required, and helps them all in
their farms — as well with advice as with
actual labour. And out of his savings —
Harrison is afraid he is giving away all he
has — he has built a little club in the village,
and managed to get gardens for a lot of the
cottages ; and he always comes with a heap
of presents for the poorest people ; and then
you'd scarcely believe it, Hilda — but he's
quite young, and so handsome !"

Upon my word," said Hilda, laughing,
he does seem to be perfection ! And so
they all like him, then ?"

Like him ! They simply adore him.

Harrison thinks he is a man who has been
in some trouble — done something wrong,
and has to keep out of the way ; but I can't
think that he has ever done anything wrong.
The only thing is that he has business which
takes him away a great deal ; but when he
comes back, I declare you would know it
by the smiling faces of everyone for miles
round."

Mrs. McCorquodale's eulogium had to
cease here, as visitors entered the room, and
she soon departed with her husband for the
Royal Academy, to wonder at British
Art.

"What a difference," thought Hilda to
herself, as she sat beside her mother in the
carriage that night on the way to a ball,
'between that man Emilia was telling me of
and one like Lord Quorn. One useful,
loved, splendid in his humble way ; the
other useless, flattered, and disliked — a
waste of creative power on the part of
Providence."

Poor Jack Spang gnashed his beautiful
white teeth that night as he saw, for the
first time, the engaged couple together ;
but was somewhat consoled to mark that
she selden spoke and appeared little flattered
by her enviable position. Besides, Miss
Metropolis was there, and Jack felt himself
in duty bound to make himself agreeable to
that young heiress. His flirtation with this
young lady would perhaps have progressed
less smoothly could he have overheard a
conversation later on that night in the
supper-room, when Quorn and his intended
were seated at a corner table,

*' I should like to spend the honeymoon
in Ireland."

"In Ireland ! Well, I have no objection.
But where in that land shall it be?
Killarney?"

''No. A village called Kilsheelah, in the
West."

Quorn started slightly. '' Kilsheelah !
I have heard of it. Why, it is miles away

from any railway. No, no, we cannot

possibly go there."

But if I have set my heart on it ?"

I am sure you would not set your heart

on anything so preposterous."

*^ But I have. I insist on this. Lord

Quorn."

His brow darkened ominously at the

defiant tone she used. Perhaps it seemed

to him a good opportunity of once for all

asserting his authority, for he made answer

with unnecessary sternness —

I am sorry, Hilda, to be obliged to

refuse any request of yours at such a

time."

But you do refuse it?"

Yes. It is a whim which "

Let it be a whim or not, it is the first

thing I have ever asked of you. I will go

nowhere else for my honeymoon."

'' I am sorry," said he, a peculiar look in

his face as he met her resolute eyes, "but

you will not go there."

"Then I will go nowhere — with you."

Be it so," and he bowed gravely, offered
her his arm, and took her back to Lady
Tip.

Once again during the evening he
approached her, as she was waiting for her
mother to extract her cloak from the
enormous bag, embroidered with a huge
coronet and J, T. in raised gold, which that
lady carried to balls with her.

Is this your final resolve, Lady
Hilda ?

'eyes, Lord Quorn."

It was not long before the male tattlers of
Society were buzzing about the five o'clock
tea-tables with their different versions of the
breaking off of the marriage between Lady
Hilda and Lord Quorn. That he had suddenly
left London was certain ; the rest was
rather speculative, for Lady Tip, when interrogated,

was sphinx-like in her replies.
Poor woman, to have her hopes crushed at
the eleventh hoar was indeed cruel, and the
more so as she could get no reason for this
change out of her daughter.

You may call it a quarrel if you
like, mamma, but not a ' lovers' quarrel.'
We agreed to differ, and we discovered
that we had better differ apart than together."


*well," said her Ladyship, with a concentrated
bitterness that was appalling, "if
it was for the sake of your Captain Spang
you have made a slight mistake, as it is
announced to-day that he marries that vulgar
Miss Metropolis."

It was not for the sake of Captain
Spang, and you have no right to say
so."

All London " — as those flies on the
coach-wheel, the denizens of the West End,
call themselves — said all sorts of things

about it. He had a wife after all ? Yes,
and seven children. And it was to be all
proved at once. Nay, he had two wives,
and would be indicted for bigamy at next
Sessions. He had grown sick of Lady
Hilda. He had come drunk to Dover Street
and insulted her. He had caught her trying
to run away with the footman, and cast her
off.

Society had great sport over it, and tore
it and worried it with much animation.

At last, wearied out by her mother's
ceaseless accusations and recriminations,
Hilda offered to spend a month with her
cousin Emilia at their Irish rectory — an
offer joyfully accepted.

"Oh, darling'' said Emilia, "it is all
very dreadful and mysterious. Of course I
don't want you to tell me any secrets, but
was he so very dreadful ? I never saw him,
you know."

'* Not so very," said Hilda, with a half

smile, ^' only we didn't care for one another,
you see."

vr.

KiLSHEELAH, as far as beauty of situation
was concerned, certainly deserved all the
praise the rector's wife had given it. It was
nestled between two hills that swept down
in all the beauty of heather and gigantic
many-coloured rock to the edge of the Atlantic,
which fretted and fumed up to the
very doors of some of the fishing cottages
at high water. Above it stood the mountain
from which the great Irish saint pronounced
his curse against the reptiles and
drove them for ever from the land ; while
all around stretched the wild heather-girt
moors, carrying the eye on to the distant
range of blue hills on which the grouse disported
themselves, undisturbed by tourist
and sportsman.

^' It was," as Hilda said, '' a splendid

place to forget London in — a place where
one almost forgets there are such things as
worldly people''

Yes," said Emilia, who had come in
bursting with intelligence ; " but he's here,
dear."

"He! Who's

"Mr. Harborough!"

Ah — yes — I had almost forgotten your
paragon. And yet it was a curiosity to see
him and the place you say he has done such
wonders for that made me "

And she stopped, musing over the slight
things that suffice to alter a destiny. Did
she regret her petulance and its result? Did
she sigh once again to stand on the pedestal
of the last of the Quorns' destined bride ?

She walked with her friend into the village,
and was surprised to note its difference
from any other in Ireland she had seen. It
had been terribly neglected, she was told,
for the landlord lived away in England, and
even the agent only came to that out-of-the-way

spot to collect the rents. The people
were very poor too ; and their trifles of land
and casual fishing scarcely sufficed to keep
them alive. Yet in every house she found
cleanliness and contentment, and everywhere
there was one strong feeling — love
and gratitude to this Mr. Harborough, who
had done all the good.

Hilda soon saw that — although everything
had been done so unostentatiously as to almost
escape detection — there must have
been a great deal of money spent by this
mysterious philanthropist. A new door
here, the price of a roof there, a pigsty in
another place ; presents of books, of crockery,
of farm instruments, of all kinds of
little things, the want of which crippled
these poor folk in small ways — all these
things had been supplied by him ; and
besides this, she heard of debts to the landlord
paid by him, of little scores at the
sheen-house wiped off, of many bits of
generosity of the like kind.

*she is a fairy prince your Mr. Har-borough,
but when shall I see him in the
flesh?" she said.

*'I don't know," said Emilia, despondingly
; 'she seems to avoid me. I have
written him at least three notes, and he has
taken no notice. And I never see him in
the village now."

Hilda grew interested in this little mystery,
and often talked to the people of their
benefactor. " It isn't the things he gives us,"
one remarked, 'rit's what he says to us and
does for us. When Paddy Blake's boy was
so ill, didn't he sit up with him for three
nights, for poor Paddy is in bed, you know,
and never lave him, and didn't the doctor
say he'd saved his life ? There's Johnnie
Maguire, dying yonder now, the poor old
critter ; it was Mr. Harborough got him to
lave off the whisky — when he'd near died
of it last year. I'd wager he's there in the
house with him now." And the man nodded
to a cabin hard by.

VOL. II, s

Insatiable curiosity seized upon Hilda.
She went to the cabin, gently opened the
half-door, disturbing an ancient hen which
sat thereon, and looked in. By the dim
light (for an Irishman delights in tiny windows)
she saw an old man lying on a bed,
and seated by him, with his back to her,
another, reading a chapter of the Bible.

Something in his voice charmed her to
the spot. Never had she heard the sacred
book with so much tender pathos.

The reading ceased, and the reader spoke.

*' I will leave you to sleep now, Johnnie,
and come back tomorrow morning. You
feel happier — more ready to go now than
you did ?"

She could not catch the old man's answer,
but she saw his wasted hand close on the
other's, and she saw a feeble effort to carry it
to his lips.

Then she had only time to step hastily
back, when he who had been reading rose
up and came out of the cabin.

*' Lord Quorn !"

VII.

"Why have you followed me — even here?"
he asked, the softness fading out of his face.

I have not followed you," she stammered.
"I did not know — I "

"You did not know I played the fool
elsewhere than in London. At least you
might have left me this."

"What does all this mean, Lord Quorn ?
Are you "

"Must I answer your questions? No,
you have no right to ask them. I asked
you to be ray wife, and, for a silly whim's
sake, you rejected me. Leave me alone
when I am happy."

Are you Mr. Harborough ?" she asked,
persisting, but amazed almost beyond words.

Yes, I am Mr. Harborough. I knew
you were here, but I hoped you would go
before long, and that we should not meet."

s2

But why "

She could not finish her sentence. The
world seemed to have turned upside down.

'' Why do I come out here under another

name, and trouble myself about these poor

people ? I will tell you, Lady Hilda. When

I was a boy I fell in love — a foolish affair,

no doubt, but I was in love all the same.

I forgot it. Years after, wandering — trying

to get rid of myself— 1 came to this village.

Accidentally I learned that the girl that had

won my boyish love had gone to the bad,

and then come back here — for she was a

Mayo girl — to die. I lingered here — a

sentimental folly, was it not ? — and I grew

fond of these poor, kindly people. It amused

fine at first to see their intense gratitude for

little things that cost me nothing ; but at

last their miseries saddened me. I began to

■ hate my life as you know it, but I was too

weak entirely to change it. But I came

here, for a time each year, to live, as it

were, a new one. Away from the mockeries,

and cruelties, and corruptness of what we
call 'life' over there, I am a new man. I
forget myself. I live happily in trying to
make others happy. In the society you
love, Lady Hilda, such a one as I am here
would be out of place. Here he can do
good. I have gained the love of the poor
folk here ; and love, which, with all my
money, I cannot buy in London, is sweet tome.
You have heard what I am called. Perhaps
the world is right, but is it the world's
fault. Why did they always teach me that
1 was not a man, but a demi-god ? You
have found me out, Lady Hilda. Go away,
and, when we meet again, try to forget that
you have ever known me other than what
my friends —friends! — think me. You ivill
respect my secret, Lady Hilda?"

But Lady Hilda made him no promise
on this point. She only stood abashed
before him, holding out her hands, and
saying,

Forgive me."

VIII.

Lord Quern — or Mr. Harborough, as he
was at Kilsheelah — did not depart from the
village as he had intended when discovered
by Lady Hilda. He did not even shun his
friends the McCorquodales any more. He
was learning a new lesson — one that no
man ever thoroughly does master — that a
woman is not easily comprehended. Lady
Hilda was a book of which hitherto he had
only known the outside. Little by little he
was allowed to peep between the leaves, and
what he read made the study very pleasant.
We have no time to linger with them amid
the heather of the Mayo hills, which the
dying summer was making more beautiful,
as if to challenge the advancing foe armed
with snow and ice ; we can only record that
the London world, or rather that world as
it exists in its country quarters, was rather
disappointed, after all its good stories, to
hear that the match between Lord Quorn
and Lady Hilda was not off after all, and

that there was to be no trial for bigamy, or
even any action by a plebeian wife for
matrimonial rights.

But when, after the marriage, the Quorns
did so little for London Society, Society revenged
itself by fearful stories of the husband's
jealousy, of terrific scenes in the
country, of lockings up and knockings
down ; and loving mothers shrugged their
shoulders, and asked what poor dear Lady
Tip could have expected when she let her
girl marry such a man, even though he
might be the richest peer in England.

And yet, improper as it may seem, when
the opinion of Society is taken into account,
it would be difficult to find, through the
length and breadth of England, a happier
couple than these two silly people who first
knew each other at Kilsheelah.

A BEAR FIGHT,

That you ask me to tell you happened
' a long while ago, and it is a subject
I never willingly recur to. However, as it
may possibly be of use that the facts should
be narrated exactly as they occurred, I accede
to your request, merely remarking that
the reader must make every excuse for one
unaccustomed to literary exercises.

It is a good many years ago now since
the 30th Hussars were in Canada, quartered
in that charming town of Quereal, the
heaven of subalterns, the very Elysium of

all who are fond of flirting. The stern
business that had called us across the water
was soon finished, and we turned our attention
very seriously to those little affaires de
coeur which begin so easily, which mean so
little, and which it is understood clearly on
both sides are to lead to nothing at all. I
think almost everyone in the regiment was
provided with a muffin except young Arthur
Desborough, one of our latest joined
cornets, and the puzzle of the whole mess.
Be it understood that we were rather a
rough regiment — that give and take was
our motto, and personal strength a decided
advantage; that in our eyes the era of
practical joking was far from over; that in
the way of literature, save and except those
oblong volumes which registered our wagers
on horse races, of which we knew little
except from the sporting papers,

Our only books
Were woman's looks,"

and it may also be understood with what a

feeling of aversion and repugnance we welcomed
a cornet who brought with him a
volume of Shakspeare, another of Schiller,
a well-thumbed de Musset, and other books
of that perniciously effeminate stuff called
poetry, and absolutely sat upstairs in his
bed-room reading them when we were enjoying
high jinks in the ante-room after
mess.

It perhaps can be imagined in some slight
degree how the poor boy was bullied ; how
his books were burned solemnly ; how his
furniture was thrown out of window ; how
he was perpetually "drawn," tried by mimic
court-martial, and chaffed without mercy or
respite. Yet he persevered in his habits
with a mild firmness which incensed some
of us very much, notably a certain Captain
of ours called Harroch, who seemed to take
every indication of a cessation in the warfare
of the subalterns of the 30th versus
Desborough as a personal injury to himself,
and who urged us on with a quite peculiar

vehemence. And there were times when
we did want to stop. You could not dislike
Desborough, whatever you might think
of his habits. And his looks had some
effect, too, for looks in a man do have an
effect even upon men. Slight and well-made,
active though not strong, he held his
own pretty well in most of our athletic contests
when sheer strength was not required
that is, when it suited him to do so.
When he wished to read no power on
earth would induce him to take part in
even the most spirited of bear fights, and I
remember one occasion, when the 39th
Lancers dined with us, and we had, vi et
armis succeeded in tying nearly all of them
together in one grand struggling mass of
humanity, that he utterly refused to come
to our assistance with regard to a fat
captain who had hitherto eluded our most
determined efforts. With all his faults,
however, he gradually became very popular
with us all except Harroch, who held him

in unaccountable aversion, and imperceptibly
we became, I think, rather ashamed of
bullying him, for with all his poising and
humbug he was not in any acceptation of
the word a " muff," was always ready to do
his brother officers a service, and preserved
always a good temper which few of us
could have kept under such trying circumstances.
I can see his face now, with its
sweet smile, the large, dark blue eyes and
delicate features, the thoughtful brow and
the clustering chestnut curls. Dear me ! I
wonder whether, if events had occurred
differently, he would have been now a
grumbling old half-pay buffer like me ?

I often used to rally him while we were
at Quereal on the coldness he showed to the
attractions of the many lovely young creatures
who would willingly have become his
muffin, and driven with him in his sleigh ;
but he always turned the subject, if possible,
and, if not possible, simply said that he
did not care about that sort of thing.

Not care about women !" I said, once.

No. " he replied (we were having a
pipe in my room after a field-day), *' not
in the way you mean. I don't like the
idea of dribbling away the gold there is
in loving a woman in the small change of
muffin ism."

But, my dear fellow," I remember answering,
" it's the best fun going. No one
expects you to be in earnest ; but you must
admit it is jolly to drive home from a good
dinner with the sleigh bells ringing in the
frosty air, under a grand moon, a splendid
cigar in your mouth, and a lovely girl looking
into your eyes, and squeezing the hand
that hasn't got hold of the reins."

'* I can imagine it, but I'm not quite — I
mean I take things rather more seriously
than you do. I ca]:i't draw the line so
exactly, you see."

And he laughed merrily, and I laughed
too ; and I forget the rest of our conversation,
except that I failed as usual in inducing

him to take to himself a young companion
of the other sex for the winter.

I really wished him to do so for his own
sake and also for the credit of the regiment,
as we had already monopolised nearly all
the prettiest girls of Quereal, much to the
disgust of the other regiments there. Besides,
I was getting tired of being perpetually
pestered with inquiries about our woman-hating
cornet, as they called him ; and my
muffin, a young lady who became engaged
regularly a few months after a new regiment
marched in, and was as regularly
thrown over again when it marched out,
was one of the most inquisitive of the
inquirers.

"He is so beautiful," she would say, as I
drove her along.

Oh, bother that ! We needn't waste
the afternoon talking of Desborough."

'*No; but I wonder why he won't come
to the party. Do try to make him, dear
Captain Brown."

VOL. II. T

And at last I did make him. He came
to one of our Club drives, with a brother
cornet in his sleigh, and certainly not one
of us — not even Harroch, who was decidedly
our "beauty man" — could hold a candle
to him. Every woman there fell in love
with him on the spot, and I don't wonder
at it. He was so young, so handsome, so
modest, so clever, so amusing. Having had
so much to do with his being there, I felt
quite proud of him, and was as pleased as
if I had been the life and soul of the party
myself.

Harroch had driven down a girl who had
very lately'' come to Quereal from the
States ; dark, with enormous eyes, and the
very best type of American beauty altogether.
But, after looking at her eyes, you
somehow forgot the rest of her face, perfect
as it was, as you can see nothing of the sky
after glancing inadvertently into the sun.
Harroch was very proud of her,' and hinted
darkly that she was the only child of her

father, a millionaire in New York city ;
while we who had eyes could easily see that
there was very little interposing between
our gallant Captain and the possession, if
he so pleased, of those millions, plus-the
lady.

That is, until after this party. And
that brings me at last to the bond fide commencement
of my story, all this having
been only preliminary.

II.

I AM not a very observant person — at any
rate, I was not in those days — and at this
especial dinner much of my time was taken
up in attending to the wants of my muffin,
who was rather exigeante, as a lady of such
vast experience in lovers was certain to be ;
but even that night I thought I observed
once or twice that Miss Hortense Callum's
eyes were turned on Desborough, even
while Harroch was making his prettiest

t2

speeches to her; and that Desborough
seemed always to look at her when joining
in the general conversation at our end
of the table.

After the dinner was over I found myself
near her.

*' Who was that opposite me, Captain
Brown?" she asked, with that little half
saucy, half imperious manner which added
so much to her charms.

Desborough, one of our cornets," I answered
; wishing I was Harroch, and that
my muffin was — at home.

^' Bring him to me."

But he would not be brought. He was
out in the yard seeing his horses put to,
and nothing would induce him to come in
again.

But you must wish to be introduced to
her. I saw you admired her."

"Yes, I did. It is best to leave off with
an appetite," he said, arranging his leaders*
reins. *' Besides, Captain Harroch — "

At that moment Harroch came up to us,
and Desborough stopped abruptly.

Are you going away, young un ?" he
asked.

Yes," said Desborough ; " I must begin
these things with small doses at first.
Quiet, mare!"

I followed Harroch back into the room
where, the table and chairs being removed,
we were going to dance ; and could not
help overhearing Miss McCullum's first
speech to him as he entered and went up to
her.

"Well, where is he?"

I did not hear the Captain's answer, but I
did observe that the ornament of our
regiment was not at all in his usual form
that night ; and, had it been possible for a
Cornet to think such a thing of such a man,
I should have said that he was suffering
from severe snubbing on the part of his
lady-love. I know that he drove home
alone, as she insisted on occupying a vacant

seat in old Colonel Dearlove's big sleigh
beside his wife ; and, in the ante-room,
when we got home, Harroch gave vent to
such awful sarcasms about women that I
remember dreaming that night that my
muffin was sitting on my chest, extracting,
with a red-hot pair of tongs, my heart from
its natural position, and placing it in small
pieces upon the fire.

But this may have been as much owing
to the grilled bones and anchovy toast with
which we finished up as to the Captain's
caustic remarks.

For about a fortnight after this Desborough
refused to come to any of our drives or
pic-nics, or parties, till one night, just as I
was tying my tie for the occasion of a grand
ball at a Mrs. Swinehead's — where, by the
by, Hortense McCullum was staying — he-burst
into my room in his impulsive way,
and, throwing himself into a chair, exclaimed
—

Tom, do you think I could get an invitation
to this thing?"

Why, you refused, didn't you ^"

*' Yes, but I want to go."

Well, old chap, you see "

'' Can t you ask Mrs. Swinehead ? I'll
send my servant, and he can bring a
message here."

Of course I promised, and equally of
course good-natured old Mrs. Swinehead
was delighted, and the message was at once
despatched to barracks.

I happened to be dancing with Hortense
when Desborous^h came into the room, and
was just telling her, as a good joke, how our
misogynist cornet had suddenly recanted,
when I felt her start violently, and saw her
turn very pale. At that moment Harroch
came up, and, the dance ending, took her
off to the conservatory or somewhere.

Desborough, after all the trouble I had
taken to get him there, did not seem to enjoy
himself much after all. He stood about in

doorways, and altogether behaved in a
manner quite unfitting one of Her Majesty's
30th, for we prided ourselves on our
demeanour in Society.

Towards the end of the ball I met him,
lingering outside the supper-room, where I
saw Harroch making great running with the
New York beauty.

I never saw such a fellow," I said,
rather crossly. ^' You were so keen to come,
and you go about when you are here like a
mute at a funeral."

He did not seem to hear me, but was apparently
absorbed in watching the white
shoulders of Miss McCullum and the broad
back of our handsome captain as he leant
over her and attended to her wants.

Why don't you get introduced to her ?"
I asked, following his eyes.

He turned away with an exclamation I
did not hear, and I was caught by a hungry
chaperon, whom I had been evading for the
last hour. When I at length escaped from

the supper-table Desborough had gone, and
I heard rumours of all sorts concerning
Harroch and the heiress.

These rumours were confirmed later that
night, when he announced to a select circle
over our parting glass that he had proposed
to and been accepted by that lady.

Next day we were all rather surprised by
Desborough applying for leave to go to the
backwoods, as no one thought he cared to
slay a moose; but of course the topic of
Harroch's engagement dwarfed everything
else.

I saw the boy off, and thought as I shook
hands with him that he looked ill and
melancholy ; but at that time of life we put
everything down to a glass too much overnight.
Young cynics that we were, we
traced all feeling to the stomach.

III.

It was some weeks before Desborough came

back from his so-called sporting expedition.
As he brought back no head of moose, or
tales of having nearly killed one, and could
not even boast of the carious which had
fallen victim to his prowess, he was of course
unmercifully chaffed by the young ones on
his want of success. Harroch was especially
hard on him and gave vent to much cutting
sarcasm as to the uses of "muffs," which
would have angered most men. Des-borough,
however, took it all very calmly,
and lived a quieter and more retired life
than ever with his books ; generally disappearing
from the ante-room soon after mess,
unless, as was not unfrequent, a select party
of boisterous spirits was told ofP to " draw "
him and bring him down nolens volens into
our sweet society again.

'rit is really too bad," I said to him one
day, when I had persuaded him to come fora
drive with me in my sleigh. "They
bother you more than ever now. I shall
see what I can do to stop it."

No, don't, Tom !" he cried ; " leave them
alone. It amuses them, and it don't hurt
me much. Besides, .they must soon get
tired of it. I suppose it is to a certain extent
my fault. I have no right to live a
different sort of life from the others. But if
I prefer my own ways and the bullying to
their ways minus the bullying, that is my
own affair."

*' But I am not sure it is all good-naturedly
I said, catching my whip artistically. " Har-rich
seems always to "

Harroch don't like me. I scarcely
know why, except that I don't like him,,
equally without cause. It is what you may
call * natural dis-affinity,' I suppose. By the
way, I suppose he will be married soon ?"

I thought Desborough's voice shook justa
little as he asked this question ; but his
face was quite calm when I looked curiously
into it.

Yes, I suppose so. It's a capital match
for both, isn't it ?"

You mean that she has money, and
that he will be a peer, and want it."

'' Well, that's the sort of idea. Not that
he will be badly off, but I have no doubt
the money will be useful in case the old
lord lives much longer, for Harroch's an
extravagant fellow."

"Do you think she cares for him?"

"God bless my soul! how can I tell?
Yes, I should say she did, though ; I saw
her look at him the other night in a very —
very luscious sort of way."

Desborough shuddered.

What horrible expressions you use,
Tom ! Luscious ! Her eyes are unlike
anything I ever saw before. Luscious !"

Well, dreamy — longing ; there was
something odd in the look, I know. My
muffin couldn't do it if she tried for a
month."

Oh, don't mix Hortense McCullum up
with your muffin !" he cried, impatiently.

"Why not ?" I asked, with some dignity,

for one's muffin is always a tender point.
How is she so much better ? — a low-born
Yankee girl with a vulgar father, who has
made some dollars, probably by robbery,
and who is willing to sell her to a future
lord. I really don't see "

You don't see, my dear fellow," said he,
with the calm smile that always made Har-rich
so angry, " that, whatever her parentage
and belongings, she is something different
from the little women who make eyes at
us here ? Oh, yes, you do see ; you have
sufficient observation for that, Tom !"

And, as I did see it, I thought it better to
say no more, even though my muffin had
been depreciated.

We had not driven much farther before
we saw that there was something occurring
in a wood before us ; and before long we
came up to what was not a very extraordinary
occurrence in those days — namely, a
hand-to-hand encounter for the right of way
between a gentleman and a lumber-man,.

who objected to draw his lumbering vehicle
aside for the passage of the elegant
equipage of his rival.

It was Jack Howell of the 114th, with
a heart of oak, but a meagre frame, who
was doing battle with a very large and
powerful man. In his sleigh, and looking
very frightened, was his muffin, a very
pretty girl with golden hair, awaiting the
termination of the combat with much natural
anxiety, for Jack's chance seemed small,
and what would happen then ?

She turned to us with heartfelt gratitude
as we came up, and at that identical moment
the lumber-man put in a slogging blow with
his right, and the 114th man measured his
length on the snow.

Now just draw that sleigh off," said the
man, triumphantly insolent, to the poor
little muffin.

Stop a bit," said Desborough, very
politely ; " stop a bit, sir ! I admit that by

the rules of the road here you have a right
to keep the centre of the track as far as that
sleigh is concerned; but here is another.
Do you intend to pull off for us ?"

'' D a bit !" said the man, surveying

Desborough's slight frame with a sneer.
*not for you, my fine fellow !"

^' Oh, bother it!" said I, who was averse
to needless trouble, "let the brute go
past."

*' Certainly not, Tom," answered my companion,
with decision. "Now, shall you
fight him, or I ?"

"Draw lots," I suggested.

'*No; we'll give him the choice. Which
would you prefer to fight, my friend ?"

'come down, you little beggar, and I'll
teach you manners !" said the man, irritated
by Desborough's mocking tone.

You see, he chooses me. Don't be
alarmed, Miss Jones ; Jack '11 be all right ina
moment — he's only knocked rather silly.

and I'll be as quick as possible ;" and,
divesting himself of his coat and waistcoat,
he stepped down into the snow.

The combat was for some time very undecided.
Desborough had had a few lessons
in boxing, and managed to avoid most of
the other's furious blows ; but whenever he
did get one it did execution, and his face was
covered with blood, and one of his eyes
showed an extreme desire to close itself up,
before he contrived to get in a sufficient
number of scientific taps upon the lumberman's
face to make that worthy think that
even the right of way may be too dearly
purchased, and, lowering his brawny arms,
to cry for peace. At this moment, from
the opposite direction from which we had
come, who should drive up in a carriole but
Mrs. Swinehead and her guest,, Miss Hortense
McCullum. They were just in time
to see our victorious finale ; and the young
lady, who had jumped out of her sleigh,

was introduced by us to the hero of the
episode, as he was putting on his coat and
trying, as he said, to look like a peaceable
Christian again.

And, as I performed the ceremony, I
heard him mutter under his breath a word
that sounded like *' Kismet."

'' How well he fought !" Miss McCuUum:
said to me in a low tone, while Desborough
was greeting Mrs. Swinehead. '' I had
no idea — I mean Captain Harroch told
me "

And then she blushed and said no more ;
and blushed again when Desborough turned
to her and looked, as I told him afterwards
prettier than ever.

Harroch pooh-poohed the whole thing
very much when he heard of it, and vowed
that anyone could thrash a lumber-man,
even with one arm tied up. When he proposed
to draw Desborough, however, he
found no seconder, it being the general idea

VOL. II. u

that the studious cornet had earned, for
that night at least, the right to do as he
liked.

IV.

I don't know how it was, but gradually I
became, after this episode, very friendly
with Miss McCuUum, and scarcely a day
passed but I went up to old Mrs. Swine-head's
house, and had a chat with the
American beauty. And the more I saw of
her the more I liked her. She was of
Southern extraction, and had none of the
twang which sometimes so spoils our lovely
cousins from over the sea ; and there was a
subdued sadness about her which was very
touching and alluring. She was so soft and
gentle that you could not help feeling a wish
to protect her, or do something great for
her sake ; and yet she had a latent strength
in her character, a power of flashing in her

eyes, that won your respect and ensured
your abstention from any of those little
doubtful jokes which so mightily amused
some of the fair ladies who were good
enough to flirt with the garrison.

Mrs. Swinehead was a vulgar old woman
enough, but chaperons are not permitted
to be in the way in the City of Quereal,
and, if by accident I ever found the old
lady in her own drawing-room, she always
scuttled out with almost ludicrous
haste.

'' They make life pleasant for the young
on this side of the Atlantic," Miss McCullum
said to me one day; "but I'm not sure ita
good plan ; one ought to have the best
part to look forward to."

I never was with her long before we
drifted into converse on the same subject —
Desborough. She brought him in so cleverly
that it often seemed as if I had done so ;
yet, much as I liked him, I was not quite

u2

unselfish enough to voluntarily talk of hint
all the time I was within shot of Miss Hortense's
eyes.

"So he is very poor?" she would say,
leaning forward, and looking straight into
my e3'es with her earnest gaze.

"Yes."

And very clever ?"

Oh ! clever enough."

"And a poet?"

I believe he writes rhymes."

And very courageous ?"

I fancy we most of us would have tried
at least to lick that lumber-man, Miss
McCullum," I said, wishing I had not been
so lazy that day.

She laughed.

Oh ! of course ; but he licked one of
you, and another one sat still."

Howell is not in the 30th, and — and
well, yes, I did sit still, because you see
I wasn't wanted."

As I happen to be over six feet high,

and pretty strong for my size (at least, I
was then), I did not think it necessary anymore
to vindicate my behaviour on that
occasion ; although I must own that I should
have liked, in Hortense's company, to come
again upon that lumber-man, or even a bigger
one.

'' Why doesn't he come and see me ?"

He has two black eyes."

"What does that matter? Has he a
muffin ?"

Oh, dear, no ! He says-^^ "

'' Well, what does he say ?"

That he won't waste the real article in
the small change of muffins."

"The real article !" she said, with a sigh,
getting up and walking towards the window.
What does he know of that? How does
he know there is such a thing ? Oh, here
is Captain Harroch ! What a pretty tandem
those ponies make, don't they, Captain
Brown ?"

I joined her at the window, and

saw Harroch, looking very handsome and
smart, as he smiled up at her from his
sleigh.

The winter was beginning to get old and
shabby and be-draggled, as the winter in
Canada does ; the snow was losing its purity
of white, and the sombre earth was beginning
to re-appear through its fleecy covering
; the reign of slush was commencing ;
our waterproof boots were powerless to
keep out the cold oozing water ; doubt was
in every coachman's mind as to whether
runners or wheels were the best means of
progression — when the news came to us
that old Mr. McCullum, merchant, of New
York City, had failed to the tune of a great
many thousand dollars. Harroch had gone
to England, and we were speculating as to
what effect this would have upon his courtship,

when we heard that his grandfather
had died, and that our Captain was now
Lord Isleworth, with a large fortune. His
papers went in immediately, but great was
our astonishment to hear that he intended
to come out again to Canada — " To say
good-bye to the fellows, and for other
reasons," he wrote to me. " Of course,
I cannot go out in England now, being in
mourning, and I should like to see Quereal
again. Besides, as you know, I have a
very important reason for coming over,
so expect me to mess in a fortnight's time.
I daresay you'll make me an honorary
member."

We all said this was very nice of him,
although I am sure I would have gone
many Atlantic voyages to see Hortense's
bright eyes ; and it was generally agreed
that he intended to carry out his intentions
with regard to that young lady, and take
her back to England as Lady Isleworth.

She had left Mrs. Swinehead's now, for
her father had come to Quereal, bringing
with him two sons, boys of twenty and
seventeen ; and they had all settled in a
cottage about half a mile outside the town.
A pretty cottage, though it must have seemed
very small and comfortless after the New
York Palace, or even the substantial house
of old Mrs. Swinehead. I had only seen
Miss Callum once since the catastrophe —
as I did not like to intrude on their trouble
and then she had completed the conquest
of my heart (if any completion of that performance
was possible) by her frank acceptance
of the situation.

My poor father is very much cut up,"
she said ; " but he seems to get great consolation
out of ray engagement."

"You have heard from Harroch?" I
asked.

"No," she said, rather nervously, twisting
her handkerchief in her white fingers.
*' No, not since his grandfather died."

*' He is coming over almost immediately."

She started.

Immediately ! How do you know ?"

I showed her the part of his letter which
I have transcribed here.

I had got into a habit of watching her
mobile face — it was so very beautiful — and
I thought I saw an expression on it now
that was not joy. And yet we, in the anteroom,
had all agreed that Harroch's fidelity
was rather wonderful, and should fill the
McCullum family with delight.

I met Desborough as I came away from
the house, after being introduced to Mr.
McCullum — a stern, hard-featured gentleman,
who looked uncommonly angry with
the world which had ill-treated him — and
was astonished at the eagerness in his usually
calm face.

In a couple of hours he came back to
barracks and into my room to have a chat
before mess.

She is an ano^el," he remarked, after

sitting gloomily in my straw chair for some
ten minutes, staring at the stove.

Of course I knew whom he meant.

Yes, she bears it wonderfully, and the
father don't look very sympathetic."

'san old scoundrel," burst out Des-borough,
jumping from his chair; "a
swindling, grasping, mean, bankrupt blackguard
— a man who should be drowned like
a blind puppy."

Hullo !" cried I. " Why, what has he
done to you? Had you any shares in the
Arkansas Tram Company, or the Minnesota
Balloon Despatch Company, or the Submarine
Parcels Delivery Company, or "

"Don't be a fool, Tom. You know I

have no money even to lose. If I had "

and he struck his hand on the table.

'' You would " 1 prompted.

*'I shouldn't even then be a peer of the
realm," said he, gloomily, sitting down again
in his chair.

Of course sou heard about Harroch's
coming back ?" I asked, after another pause.

He nodded.

And that he sticks to the thing."

*^ Sticks to the thing ! What condescension
! Do you think she isn't a million
times too good— too " But he interrupted
himself, and soon after went to his
room to dress for dinner.

VI.

It is not a habit of mine to listen to conversation
not intended for me, but one day
at the McCuUums' cottage I could not help
being the auditor of some words between
Desborough and Hortense, which opened my
eyes very wide indeed.

I had strolled into the little conservatory,
and they had come in so suddenly,
and he was so evidently just about to
leave the house, that I could not come out

soon enough to save them the confusion
of the knowledge that I knew their
secret.

"Then you will marry him?" I heard
our cornet say, in a low, fierce, unnatural
voice.

'' Yes," she said, also in a low tone.

And you love me ?"

Oh ! darling, do not torture me. Do
you not see that I must — that my
father "

He can only sell stocks and shares ; he
cannot sell flesh and blood."

*' You should not speak so of him. He
has toiled all his life for us, his children.
He has sacrificed his time, his health, his
pleasure for us. He is old, broken-down,
ruined, and he asks a sacrifice of me — one
for whom he has done so much. Is it all to
be on his side ? Are we to do nothing ?
san I refuse ?"

You should refuse. Yes. This bargain

is wicked in the sight of God. Hortense,
see here. I am a poor man, but I can
work ; I have brains, I have determination.
Only say one word, and I will give up the
regiment, and see whether I cannot hold my
own with the money-letters. With your
father's knowledge and my energy what
could not be done ? Hortense, you cannot
do this thing !"

There was a pause, as if she were steadying
her voice to reply, which she did with a
mournful sweetness quite indescribable.

My poor boy, you do not understand.
I never meant you to know ; but your words
when we first knew of our misfortunes, your
generous offer of all you had — oh ! darling,
I shall never forget that — forced my secret
from me ; and I cannot deny it now. 1 do
love you. I shall always love you ; it is a
love that will make my life a long misery —
but it is sweet, too ! But you do not know
my father ; he is set upon this marriage ; he-has

— like many Americans — an exaggerated
notion of British Lords ; he thinks my being
the wife of one will raise him somehow, and
Captain Har — I mean Lord Isleworth — has
been very generous in his offers. No, no,
it is hard ; as hard, darling, for me as for
you ; but it must be."

It shall not be !" I heard Desborough
exclaim, hoarse with passion ; and then Mr.
McCullum came in, and they all went out
into the hall together, and then I escaped and
went back to barracks with a heavy heart,
pondering on the adage as to true love,
and wondering why Providence should
have made these two poor young persons
fall in love with one another.

Harroch, now Isleworth, arrived by the
boat he was expected by, and brought a
magnificent present to add to our table
plate, and made himself so agreeable that
we all regretted more than ever that we had
lost such an ornament to any regiment.

It was only the elder among us who had
discovered how much of scheming selfishness
there was hidden under his careless hoi"
home ; and selfishness, to which we are all
subject, does not touch us very acutely in
others, unless it happens to interfere with
ourselves in some especial manner.

And as Harroch grew more popular, so
Desborough went in the reverse direction.
He shut himself up more than ever, only
spoke when addressed, and that if possible
in monosyllables, and avoided even me.
Knowing his secret — though unable to tell
him so and to sympathise — I was not surprised
at his conduct ; but the other cornets
were much incensed at his want of geniality,
and were ripe for any mischief which might
be proposed in the way of Desborough-
baiting, when, on one unlucky night, the
troth Fishers, noted for their drinking
and bear-fighting qualities, came to dine
with us, in return for a dinner they had

lately given to us, when the evening had
been ended by a moonlight sleigh race,
in which one arm, one collar-bone, and any
quantity of ribs had been broken.

VII.

*' Lieutenant Arthur Desborough," said
Isleworth, when the cloth had been removed,
in tones of mock solemnity, "the
pleasure of a glass of wine with you."

There was no response.

''Desborough," said the Colonel, with
some asperity in his tone, "did you not
hear ? Isleworth wishes to take wine with
you."

Desborough bowed slightly, and just
touched his glass with his lips, while several
of the youngsters, who had guessed —
heaven knows how ! — at his feelings with
regard to Hortense McCullum, nudged each
other.

Look at the jealous little beggar !"

Almost immediately after we had adjourned
to the ante-room and cigars were
being lit, he disappeared, and in the confusion
of tongues — the loth being a peculiarly
noisy lot — he was for some time not missed.
We played at different games — Van John,
Poker, and others — until the seniors went
to bed, it being understood that a certain
amount of restraint was to be exercised
until then. But after that the fun grew
fast and furious ; rough and tumble and
burnt punch was the order of the day, and
every kind of wild suggestion for noise and
excitement was being made when, in a pause
in the disorder, I heard a voice, which I
thought was Isleworth's, say, " Why not
draw Desborough ?" There was a shout of
assent, and a group of semi-drunken young
gentlemen straightway raced upstairs for
his room.

I did not follow them, and my heart was
heavy as I thought of the poor boy with his
sorrow and his loss being obliged to endure

A'-OL. II. X

this rough horseplay. He was only half-dressed,
I noticed, as he was carried in
triumph down to the ante-room and held
tight by two athletic cornets while a council
of war was held.

Numerous suggestions for the bestowal of
his person were made, during which he
stood silent, his anger only showing itself in
his large dark eyes.

'' Let's give him a swim in the river, it'll
wake him up," said the same voice as
before.

Desborough darted a glance in its direction,
but said nothing.

** To the river ! to the river !" was the
cry; and a general rush — the prisoner
being in the midst — was made down the
lilacs or square, at the bottom of which ran
the broad, dark St. Lewis ; bits of ice floating
down it here and there, the last witnesses
to the past winter.

I and one or two others ventured to

expostulate, but the majority were half
angry and half drunk — a dangerous state of
mind when violence is on foot.

We won't do it if he says he's afraid,"
said Isleworth, standing close to him, with
a sarcastic smile.

Desborough looked him in the face — a
look I shall never forget, nor, I think, will
the noble Lord — such defiance and such
contempt were blended in it — but answered
nothing.

It was this silent, contemptuous braving
of them that roused their anger ; had he
struggled or laughed, the joke would have
ended here ; but the wine was in and the
wit was out. I did all I could — yes, I conscientiously
affirm I did all I could — to stop
the thing ; but I was swept aside, and in
another moment Desborough was flung into
the water.

For a minute the rioters seemed a little
ashamed of themselves, as he swam away

x2

into the darkness ; but this is not a state of
mind to be encouraged, and feeling the want
of sustenance after their exploit, they returned
for broiled bones and more liquor,
never doubting but that the victim of the
joke would soon re-appear, safe, if cold and
dripping.

VIII.

Kept awake by her thoughts, Hortense
McCullum sat by her window and watched
the rising of the sun, the beginning to her
of a new day of self-repression and sorrow.
She had made up her mind, and would not
swerve a hairsbreadth from her determination
; but it was very bitter.

Oh, Arthur, Arthur !" she cried to the
cold sky, " if you knew what it is to do my
duty ! But God will help me."

The angry river dashes past, close to the
cottage walls, and seems to bear away with
it the hope of her maidenhood, the romance

of her life. She leans her fair forehead
against the window-pane, and a sob bursts
from her.

Stay ! What is that battling with the
water, not fifty yards from the shore ? It
is a man, struggling, drowning ! Yes, she
sees his arms thrown up. She flings open
the window, and she hears a cry. It is her
own name ! '' Hortense !" is wafted across
the waters.

She flies out of the room, and cries loudly
for assistance. A servant is roused, and
she dashes down, fumbling, in her excitement,
with the door-fastenings, and losing
a precious moment. To the river-side !
Nothing !

But I saw it ! — a man — close in ! Join
hands ! It was coming in shore ! It may
not be too late."

A couple of fishermen come running up,
and they confirm the statement — there was
a drowning man close by a few moments
ago. Others come up ; a boat is launched.

There is confusion, but some method, and
their efforts are rewarded. An arm shows
above the water for a second — they are too
late to grasp it, and wait anxiously. It
comes up again, this time to be seized b}"
two pair of strong hands, and Desborough,
inanimate and dying, is dragged into the
boat.

Ah, too late now, Hortense, for all your
love, for your warmest caresses ! Not a
word, only one sigh. Does he know that
his last wish, that his determination when
they threw him into the cruel river, is attained,
and that he has come to die at the
feet of his love? There he does die, and
dead he is carried to the cottage and laid
upon her bed (for so she will have it),
beautiful and still, but only clay for all
that.

IX.

They said it was his own fault ; why did he

not swim to land, instead of three miles
down the river in such icy water? They
said she was demented to refuse such a rich
lord, just because he had unfortunately been
mixed up in the bear fight. They said she
caught cold that night, and that it settled
on her lungs, and eventually carried her off;
but I think that he killed himself for love of
her, and that she died of a broken heart.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

OF THE

U N Diversity

or ILLINOIS

V.3

OTHER TALES.

VOL. III.

AND

OTHER TALES

BY

THE Earl OF DESAET

AUTHOR OF

'the HONOURABLE ELLA,"
KELYERDALE,"

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. m.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1880.

All rights reserved

PRINTED BY DUNC/JT MACDONALD,

BLENHEIM HOUSE.

V.3

THE Armor MYSTERY.

VOL. III.

No. Statement of Miss Alice Rowclipfe,
OF 103, Grosvenor Square.

/^F course I remember Helen Morningtjoii
^-^ the year she came out in London.
There were five or six what are called
beauties came out that year, of which I
believe I may, without vanity, call myself
one — quorum pars — (I forget the rest) ; but
certainly she was far and away the prettiest.
I never saw anything like her skin ; you
might have compared it with velvet, if velvet
could have been such a colour and so soft :
creamy it was, and it never tanned or

B 2

freckled, as some skins of that kind do. It
was always the same. Her hair, too, was
very remarkable — a rich auburn, and almost
down to her knees ; indeed, with a very
slight stoop, it did reach her knees, and not
scraggy, as long hair often is. The morning's
— who were very poor, for all their
great relations — lived in a little house just
outside papa's lodge gates, and I soon grew
very fond of Helen. She was so patient,
and bore all the little troubles and worries
that surrounded her so wonderfully ; and,
under that calm and dignity, there beat a
passionate heart ; her nature was self-contained,
but ardent. She was the sort of
girl one felt would never flirty but would
have many men at her feet, and would love
one, and one only.

Of course when we both came out the
same year at the very same ball (Lady
Gillingham, Helen's aunt, presented her at
the Drawing-room), we had a sort of
friendly chaff between us as to who would

obtain the first offers — or the first offer — I
forget which. I need not explain how it was
that my offers — which, after all, were numerous
enough — all came to nothing (I forget
who it was — some clever man — said the
other day that pretty girls with brains often
did not marry) — and will go on to tell you
how mortified we all were when Helen
announced one day, in her quiet, resolute
way, that she intended to marry Harry
Hengist. Of course he was very good-looking,
and nice, and all that, but his
iB2,000 a year, or whatever it was, was not
enough for himself alone, for his bets and
his beautiful horses and clothes. Of course
we all expostulated in vain. I, indeed,
went so far as to hint that a certain Baronet
with an enormous fortune only required a
little encouragement to come to the point.

'' You mean Sir John Fell," she said,
looking very proud and lovely. '* Well — -
yes — he did nearly come to the point, as
you call it, and then I snubbed him, and

he has gone to Paris with somebody you
and I may not mention, though we may
look at her photograph in the shop windows
and dress after it. And so, my dear, good
little Alice, let me never hear the worthy
Baronet's name again, but sit down and talk
about Harry. Isn't he charming ?"

Of course I said he was, as he really was,
only rather extravagant ; but I felt bound to
try to show Helen that she ought to think
twice before she committed herself. She
was very fond of pleasure, of dress, and
position ; and during the short time she had
been out in London she had wanted for
nothing, having, as I said, plenty of rich
relations. And her success in Society — for
she was certainly the beauty that season —
made them very generous to her. She let
me go on a little about making two ends
meet, and all that, and then said, very determinedly,
'' Yes, Alice ; I've thought it allover,
and I can do it. I can give up all these
pleasures — and I love them very dearly, I

love them horribly. I always feel I was born
to live in the purple and feast, but I have
chosen deliberately. I love Harry better
than fine clothes and a big house. Yes, I
am sure I do. Don't say any more about it."
And then we talked of other things. The
bridesmaids' dresses was one of the topics,
but I never forgot the deliberate way she said
these words to me. And I was very sorry
for Sir John Fell, notwithstanding his going
to Paris with that horrid person.

I never saw a man so much in love with
anyone as he was with my beautiful Helen.
Two or three days after the announcement
of her engagement to Mr. Hengist had appeared
in the Morning Post he came to
Grosvenor Square, looking as if he had not
been to bed or washed, and asked me if it
was true. His lips were white and trembling
; and indeed he shook all over ; and
when I said, "Yes," I thought he would
have fallen.

"If I had only spoken!" I heard him

whisper to himself. I felt very sorry for
the poor man, but I thought it better to tell
him at once that no speaking would have
done any good, that she was very much

attached to Harry, and that but he

did not wait for me to finish my sentence,
and rather rudely dashed out of the room,
with a most diabolical expression on his
face — or, at least, I thought so in the glimpse
of it I had. Poor man ! He was out of his
v/its with grief, and certainly Helen was
almost worth going mad about — at least, if
a woman ever was.

I had not told Sir John more than the
truth. She was very much in love with
Harry Hengist; and it seemed to me that,
when listening to his careless, rather witty,
and superficial talk about himself (always
about himself), she put aside for the time
her ready sense of the ridiculous, and her
shrewdness, and took the good-looking
young gentleman rather too blindly at his
own valuation. He certainly was very

handsome, and always beautifully dressed,
and he could talk agreeably enough — that
ib', if you took an interest in the subject —
but sometimes I wondered whether he was
worthy of the admiration Helen, who was
sometimes so sarcastic and clever, lavished
upon him, and whether in this instance her
customary penetration did not fail her. 1
do not mean to say I was not in love, rather,
with Harry Hengist. We all were. Every
girl as she came out fell in love with him,
as certainly as she was presented at Court ;
but, when it came to the serious question of
Helen's trusting herself to him for life, it
was rather a different matter. People said
that he used once to drink, that he gambled,
that he had behaved ill to ever so many
women, that he had an establishment somewhere
; but all these tales, which were
of course brought to her, had no more
effect upon Helen than water on a duck's
back.

I would marry him," she said, with her

white teeth clenched, "if they proved he
had murdered an archbishop."

Well, I was one of the bridesmaids at the
wedding, which came off in St. George's,
Hanover Square, and I certainly thought
then, and think now, that never had I seen
so handsome a pair. T was very sorry to
miss my friend, for she was a woman who
could be a real friend, and would willingly
give up a ball or party to sit with one if one
were ill or low ; but the letters she wrote
me were full of happiness for about eight
months. Then a hope which had been — I
could read between the lines — great happiness
to her was dashed away, and after that,
I thought, a tinge of sadness, of bitterness,
had crept into her correspondence with
me.

i\.las ! This was soon explained, for I
was told one evening at a party by a great
friend of his that he was utterly " smashed "
"backed Desdemona for the Oaks, stood
to win fifteen thou," and was going to India

with his wife, to take some appointment
there. I met them in London soon after,
and was shocked to see how ill and worn
she looked ; but still she was very beautiful.
She told me that they had got a reprieve
from India for a year, and that they were
going to try to economise in a tiny house
they had taken in Stanley Street, Piralico.
Poor Helen seemed to have lost all her
spirits, and the visits I paid to Stanley Street
told me that they were very poor. Once
there were some strange men in the house,
and Helen was crying upstairs, and I heard
Mr. Hengist's voice — swearing I fear he was
in the dining-room. She tried to meet
me as if nothing had happened ; but, poor
dear, it cost her a great effort. Then I
heard terrible rumours of him. How he
drank, and spent the little money he had on
some other woman, and — they even said
this — that he beat her when he had been
drinking. People said worse things even —
things I cannot put down on paper — about his

asking Sir John Fell and other old admirers
of her, who were rich, to the house ; but of
course I did not believe them, knowing my
proud Helen too well.

The next thing I heard was that they had
gone down for a short visit to Arlmore, Sir
John Fell's place, and then — but I believe
that is not to be part of my story. As ray
pen is to be again required, however, I will
only say au revoir to the reader of these
lines.

No. II.— Statement of Miss Marie Martin,
Lady's Maid, now out of Place.

I was engaged by Miss Warrington, about
a month before her marriage with Mr.
Hengist, to come to her on the day of the
ceremony. Of course it was not to be expected
that I should have any of the trouble
of the trousseau and the packing. Thank
Heaven, I know my duty, and never interfere
with other people's. I have been

asked to put down exactly what I remember
important that happened during my service
with Mr. and Mrs. Hengist. Except that
Mr. H. was a brute, and drank, and ill-used
his wife — which is not so uncommon among
the upper classes as some folks suppose —
nothing much occurred till the end, except
that, of all the villains I ever came across
in my pilgrimage through life, Jackeymo
Branchy, Mr. Hengist's Italian valet, was the
worst. I predicted what would happen
from the first ; at least, I always knew he
was not born to be drowned.

He hated me because he knew that I
could read his black heart like a book ; but
there was one person he hated worse, and
that was master. This very feeling made
him pity poor Mrs. Hengist, as, indeed, I
did, and sometimes when he came out of
the room, when Mr. H. had begun to go at
her with his foul manner, I have seen Lackeys
come out shaking his fist, and muttering
and looking as black as thunder. Not being

a scholar, and his muttering being in Italian,
I cannot tell what he said, but more than
once I caught the word "deavolo," which, I
am told, signifies something bad. Of course,
when Mr. Hengist settled to go to India I
gave warning, having a respect for my liver.
And, indeed, I had only stayed on so long,
through all the fusses and worries and
executions in the house, and what not,
because of a kind of affection I could not help
feeling for poor Mrs. Hengist.

Before they started for Marseilles, however,
they were going a short visit to Armor
Hall, the residence of Sir John Fell,
Baronet, a very nice rich gentleman, who,
they tell me, Mrs. H. might have had if she
would — more fool she not to, say I, with all
respect— but I always say what I mean.
The day after we arrived was the 16th of
August, and the gentlemen all went some
miles away to the moors to shoot grouse.
Mrs. H. was in very low spirits all that day;
I never saw her so low before, and so restless.

This going to India, as it got nearer,
frightened her, T fancy ; and, indeed, it
would have frightened anyone to go away
alone with him.

The night we arrived there had been
some fuss about the luggage, and Mr. H. had
discharged Jackeymo then and there, surprising
all the servants there, who are a
very respectable sec, by his violence. He
would not let the man into the house, but
reviled him from the steps, told him to go to
h — 1 for his wages, and to walk every step
of the way back to the station, which was*
nine miles off, and be d — d. Little as I
liked the man, I felt rather sorry that he
should be insulted before the butler (a very
respectable man I had known before) and
footmen. As I turned away into the house
I caught sight of Jackeymo's face ; it was
quite awful. He shook his fist in the air in
quite an operatic manner, and disappeared.
I looked round to see whether Mr. Hengist
had remarked it, but he was engaged in

asking his wife, who had been looking on
at the scene, why the d — 1 she could not goon
to the drawing-room.

I have little more to tell. I slept in a
room in the same passage as those occupied
by her and Mr. Hengist ; for the last two
or three months they had occupied different
rooms. My mistress retired to bed at
about eleven ; and happening to sit up
writing to my brother — who is the principal
clerk in one of the first houses of Baltimore
I heard Mr. Hengist step along the passage.
I knew it, for, as usual, he was very
much intoxicated. I heard his heavy kind
of breathing and muttering as he passed,
and he fell against my door. Then I heard
him, after one vain effort, succeed in opening
his door, and bang it with a violence that
would have waked the dead.

And then I went to bed. Suddenly — I
afterwards ascertained it was about four
o'clock — I was awoke by shouting in the
garden, answered from the house. The

man, a watchman, said some one had broken
into the house through the pantry. Of
course I got up and put on my clothes,
having doubly-locked my door, for there
are things I cannot pretend not to be
frightened of. Everybody about the house
seemed to be roused, and to be running
about, when, almost at my door, there was
a loud shout of '* Here he is! We've got
him !" I plucked up ray courage and peeped
out. There were two men — a footman
and the watchman who first roused us —
holding some one by the collar, and that
some one, with his eyes starting out of his
head — not as if he was ashamed of himself,
but as if he had seen something horrible —
was Jackeymo Brachia.

I was about to express my astonishment,
when we heard a loud cry from the room
where Mr. Hengist slept. At first I was
inclined to shut myself up in my room, but
there were so many of us that we all went
together to the door, Jackeymo being drag-vol.

III. c

get along. I shall never forget the sight
that awaited us. There was Mr. Hengist,
on the bed, with his head hanging down,
and the blood dropping from a great wound
in his neck on to the floor.

No. III.— Statement of Mr. J. Hardly Clark,
OF 99, Duke Street, St. James's, S.W.

I AM a financial agent, and occasionally procure
advances for noblemen and gentlemen,
sometimes on their note of hand. On the
11th day of August, 186 — , I received a
visit from a client, Mr. Henry Hengist, who
required a loan on his note of hand, which
was backed by a goodish name, his own, I
should mention, being worthless in the
market.

He objected to receiving a cheque, sang
that he did not wish to pay the money in to
his bankers (having, as I suppose, overdrawn
his account there), and I paid him in
notes and gold. The sum was £275.

No. IV. — Statement of Inspector Dryden,
OF THE Detective Police.

On the 18th of August, 186 — , I was sent
down to Arlmore, the residence of Sir John
Fell, to investigate the circumstances of the
death of Mr. Henry Hengist, who had been
found dead on his bed the morning before,
with a jagged wound in his throat. A pair
of large scissors which lay on the ground
near the bed, and which were covered with
blood, showed what the weapon had been.
The case did not seem to offer very much
difficulty, as a discharged servant of the
deceased, from whom he had parted with
angry words only the day before, and who,
they told me, could be proved to have been
lurking about the place for twelve hours
before the murder, had actually been caught
in the house ten minutes before the murder
was discovered, having broken through the
pantry window, and so entered. I could
scarcely be blamed for forming an opinion
on such evidence.

c2

My first inquiry was, of course, whether
anything was missing from the room. The
maid-servant said no, but on my insisting on
an interview with the wife of the deceased,
who seemed overwhelmed with grief, she
told me that there was a sum of over £200
in gold and notes in his travelling-bag, which
opened with a peculiar spring. The bag
was open, and the money had certainly
gone. Asked who besides herself knew of
the existence of this money, she at first replied
no one, but, being pressed, said that
the discharged servant, whom I mentioned
as having broken into the house — an Italian,
Giacomo Bracci by name — knew of it. It
also transpired that this Bracci knew the
secret of the spring of the bag.

There is scarcely any other important
fact connected with my visit which I need
mention. There was a fussy old gentleman
of the name of Guelrose, who was eager to
tell me many irrelevant facts, and was full
of a quarrel he had witnessed between Sir

John Fell and the deceased, and some
words he had overheard in some mysterious
way in the drawing-room. However, putting
Mr. Guelrose firmly aside, I pieced my
evidence together, and a verdict of wilful
murder was returned against Bracci at the
inquest.

Note by the Compiler.

It is scarcely necessary to follow Inspector
Dray den through his account of the well-known
trial with its result — the conviction of
the Italian. Although the man at times protested
his innocence, he never explained, or
attempted to explain, his breaking into the
house that night, but seemed to be seized with
a mysterious kind of wondering horror and
surprise. He asked several times to see the
widow of his victim, but, although she expressed
herself willing to go to the prison,
the state of her nerves was such as to render
it impossible — at least, in the opinion of her
friends.

As everyone knows, Bracci was condemned
to be handed ; then there was a
reaction in his favour in consequence of
the general distrust of circumstantial evidence.
No one certainly had seen Bracci
strike the fatal blow, or even enter the
room where the murder took place ; the
stolen money had never been found on him
or traced to any accomplice of his. Petitions
to the Home Secretary poured in ; the
penny papers took it up and published
legions of letters and articles, and at length
the Home Secretary gave way, and, illogically
enough, commuted the sentence to
penal servitude for life. Equally illogically,
too, the very paper that had urged this
course now turned round and said that
either he was guilty or innocent ; if guilty,
he should be hanged, for it was a foul
murder ; if innocent, he should be set free.
Soon, however, the whole thing was forgotten,
and the Arlmore Mystery, as it was
called by the newspapers while the decision

was pending, went to the limbo of other
nine-days' wonders.

No. v.— Second Statement of Miss Alice

Radcliffe.

After the terrible Arlmore tragedy I lost
sight of my poor darling Helen for a longtime.
They said she was very poor, but
very resigned ; and now and then I got a
little note from her, just saying she was
alive, and that we should meet again some
day. I did so long to see her, for I had nty
trouble, too, then — trouble of the heart
which she would have understood ; and besides,
I felt that she must look too lovely ina
widow's cap. A disappointment, which
has nothing to do with what I am to relate
—but which I cannot quite forget ever —
had made me anxious to leave London fora
time, and it was early in June in the year
186 — that papa, who is always so good tome,
announced that he had arranged to goto

Paris for the season, and could take
mamma and me to the Italian lakes, or
Switzerland, or wherever we chose. I
mention this because it fixes the date of
Helen's first visit to me as a widow. The
cap did suit her, as I thought. But there
were lines on the white skin which were
new to me. An expression of pain I did
not remember seemed to flit now and then
over her face, but she was to me the dear, •
beautiful, sympathizing angel she had always
been. It is dreadful to think of all my
selfish talk before she had time to get in her
news.

I hope you won t be shocked, Alice,"
she said, in that soft, low voice of hers, " I
am going to be married again."

Shocked ! I jumped up and kissed her.
Her lonely life seemed so unnatural, and
she was so young. I was delighted.

"Do I know who it is, dear? Oh, I
hope so," I said.

'* I think you do," she answered, smiling
a little.

*sir John Fell?"

Yes, Alice," she said, in a low voice.

I noticed she got very pale suddenly, and
her lips quivered, but then of course the
name, spoken first to her, must remind her
of Arlmore and all those horrors.

Of course we put off our journey abroad,
and I think papa was very glad to stay, after
all ; and, though Helen had no bridesmaids
this time, for my part I thought the wedding
gayer, or at least more promising, than'
the first. Sir John was the most perfect
gentleman, something older than she, but I
think that is so much the better. He worshipped
the very ground she trod upon, and
although he had shut up his principal place
in the north — where the murder was — he
had several others still nicer, and such a
charming house in Park Lane ! I never
saw a man so much in love. I could not

help watching them both, and I thought I
noticed once or twice, when she met his
affectionate, admiring gaze, something like
a tear trembled in her eyes. One thing I
may mention before my part of these recollections
is finished — namely, that Sir John
told me, a few days before the wedding,
that she had made him promise to leave no
stone unturned to effect the liberation of
the murdering Italian, Giacomo Bracci. I
told him I did not think it quite good taste
of her, even though she was actuated by
generous pity; but Sir John, who is quite
mad where she is concerned, was almost
rude to me, and told me I did not understand
what noble nature was.

Note by the Compiler.

Stern necessity has obliged us to leave
out some very beautiful reflections and sentiments
with which Miss Radcliffe's statement
ends.

No. VI.— Statement of Lord Naseby, of the
Albany, Piccadilly, W.

Sir John Fell was a great friend of mine.
I thought him an ass to marry. I think so
still. The woman's being a widow made
the folly still greater. However, I was
astonished when he came to me about a
month after his marriage, and asked me to
come with him to his lawyer's to witness his
signature to a deed of separation from his
wife, and to arrange about being a trustee
for the money he settled on her.

He looked very ill and wretched, and,
had 1 not made it a practice never to be
sorry for anyone but myself, I should have
pitied him.

I undertook the trusteeship, which will
be a cursed trouble. I am convinced, from
things he said, that Jack was as much in
love with the woman the day he signed the
deed of separation as the day he married
her. It is very mysterious.

No. VII.— Statement of Mr. Guelrose, of
White's, Boodle's, and the Marlborough
Clubs.
I was staying at Arlraore at the time of
the murder of Harry Hengist ; and, indeed,
I was the first to take the right version of
the story to London. Of course one could
not pretend to be very sorry for a man who
violated all the convenances in the way he
did; but it was a terrible blow to poor
dear Mrs. Hengist, a lovely and charming
woman.

I am asked to state anything that I happen
to remember with regard to that visit, and
with regard to circumstances which raised
certain suspicions in my mind — suspicions
which an idiotic police officer of course
pronounced nonsense, because they did not
tally with his sledge-hammer way of looking
at the case.

Imprimis, on the 16th of August, the day
before the murder, I happened to be seated
in the large bow window of the gallery, a

very beautifully-shaped room, with the
Vandyke in it, in the afternoon. I had not
gone out shooting with the other men. Sir
John Fell, our host, entered, and was saying
something to Mrs. Hengist, who was sitting
in the room, and, having come in after
me, was, I fancy, unaware of my presence ;
immediately after entered Hengist, who had
evidently had too much whisky on the hill,,
and made use of a very coarse expression
to his wife. Sir John resented this, and
there were some very fierce words, ending
by Hengist leaving the room, swearing that
he would pay off his (Sir John's) insolence
on his own wife, to whom again he applied
a very opprobrious name. I would willingly
have escaped from my disagreeable position,
but it was impossible ; and I could not
avoid hearing these words pass between
Mrs. Hengist and Sir John : —

*^ You must not say such things to me,
Sir John. It is almost like believing I am
what he calls me."

** And you will go to India with him ?
He will kill you."

^' I must."

Oh, if you were free, my only love !"

You would marry me ?"

"Marry you! Oh Helen, if you knew
how I long for you !"

Then some one came in, and I was enabled
soon after to escape. That is all I have to
say.

No. VIII. — Statement of the Rev. R. Bolton,
Rector of St. Mary's, Roseate Street,
Putney.

On the night of the 20th of December
last, I was sent for to go to the bedside of
a dying lady, who had lately taken some
lodgings — poor ones enough — in my parish.
I had noticed her on two or three occasions
in church, principally because she used to
leave before the end of the service. I
happened to see her face as she left on one
of these occasions, and was struck by its

frightened expression. She was young and
handsome, and was dressed very quietly in
black. It was easy to see she was a lady.

I found her evidently dying, from the
effects, the doctor told me, of an overdose of
some poison she had swallowed by accident.
He had done all he could. The pain was
over now, but she was sinking fast.

I could make neither head nor tail of her
gasping and whisperings to me. Such words
as " Forgive — Sir John — he loved me ; the
devil tempted me. Quick ! Yes ! I did it.
Let the poor man go free !" They told me*
nothing. I saw that the poor woman suffered
agony of mind through not being able
to communicate her ideas to me; but I
could do nothing to help her, and the effort
to speak only hastened the end.

At last, after a weary waiting, the convulsive
shudders that presage the departure
of the spirit began, and for a moment I
ceased my prayers, thinking she was gone.
She raised herself in bed with a supreme

effort, and, ejaculating in my ear, " I did
it ! Take that letter to them ! I confess !

Not Giacomo ! I " and she fell back,

dead.

The letter she alluded to I supposed to
be one addressed to the Home Secretary,
which I posted to the Home Office. After
some difficulty, we ascertained that the lady
was Lady Fell, wife of Sir John Fell, and,
I believe, separated from her husband. Sir
John Fell arrived when we had made the
death public, and his excessive grief caused
us to wonder at their separation. I mentioned
that I had sent the letter to the
Home Office, and he grew perfectly livid ;
accused me of officious meddling, and was
altogether so rude that I was glad to get
away to my house and have done with the
business. This is literally all I know of the
matter.

Notes by the Compiler.
The following paragraph appeared in the

newspapers on the 30th of December in the
same year : —

^^ The Ashore Mystery. — We have to
announce that the convict Giacomo Bracci, •
who was sentenced to death live years ago
for murder (the sentence being commuted
to penal servitude), has been granted a free
pardon by the Crown ; circumstances having
come to light that show him to have been
innocent of the crime laid to his charge."

After the death of Sir John Fell, which
happened nearly a year after this, the new
baronet. Sir Harold, had extensive alterations
made at Arlmore ; especially in that
part of the house made detestable by the
memory of the again mysterious murder.
Buried under a loose board in the flooring
of the room that had been Mrs. Hengist's
on the fearful night, a workman found no
less a sum than £251 in gold and notes.

Extract from " The Lancashire Gazetted
*' It will be in the memory of our readers

VOL. III. D

that we announced the intention of Sir
Harold Fell, Bart., to erect two monuments
side by side in Arlmore churchyard, to the
memory of the late baronet and his consort,
who died within a year of one another. On
Saturday last these two monuments were
erected, and were universally admired ; but,
unfortunately, the next morning it was discovered
that during the storm the monument
to the memory of Lady Fell had been
struck by lightning and utterly destroyed."

Part of a Letter found in 187 — by Sir
Harold Fell, Bart., in a box of old
papers, the first half of the letter being
missing.

God knows I understand your feelings
your misery. Why do you not hate me ?
Oh, how I hate myself! Yet, John, I did
it for you. Insensate that I was, it was
only when too late that I found what I had
rejected in rejecting you ! Try to forget
me; or, if you must think of me, think of
me as I was before grief and hope combined

had maddened me. Yes, you are right ; we
must not meet. To look into each other's
eyes now would be misery unbearable.

I pray to die, John — I pray to die !
God only knows what I have suffered —

before and after ! [A piece was torn out

here.] It was life for life, John. One of
us must have died, and I could not bear to

give up the glimpse of happiness I saw

[Another hiatus.] Your promise about
Bracci — conceal nothing if necessary. I
am not afraid ; I have lost all in losing you !
Good-bye !"

d2

A FRAGMENT FROM THE MEMOIRS OF AN
ENGLISH LADY.

SHOCKING!

I HAVE ventured to call the story of a
little bit of ray life "Shocking," to
remind my readers that they are expected
to be shocked by it, and that the moral it
conveys should be repugnant to the heart of
all truly fashionable people. Of course
none but fashionable people will read it.
But, shocking as my conduct was, I fear I
cannot repent or be ashamed of it, though
I am philanthropic enough to hope that my
sad example may act as a warning to all
young married women.

The essence of autobiography is egotism,
as some writer remarked, and I shall not

therefore apologise for the number of " Fs "
which will occur in the following pages.

My mother was a very well-known person
in London Society, and in other societies too.
She lived in and for the world — the world
of ball-going and amusement — and played
her part in it with much zeal and success.

It was only when an unfortunate redness
of her nose, caused, ill-natured people said,
by over-tight lacing, disgusted her with the
looking-glass, that she adopted the High-church
pietism which she now is so devoted
to ; and as she sits in her favourite corner
of the pretty church she attends so regularly,
with her lovely books of devotion, her
smelling-bottle, and her general air of condescending
piety, you really forget all about
her nose, and are inclined to honore the
reason which has so happily, if painfully,
brought her into the arms of the Church.

She was always a very good mother tome,
and, from the auspicious day which saw
my debut before our gracious Queen at St.

James's, till that no less auspicious when
she wept quietly behind me as Tom placed
a gold ring on my hand at the altar of St.
George's, Hanover Square, she was always
most careful of my welfare, and eager for
my advancement and happiness. And what
a chaperon she was ! Even at three in the
morning, when other chaperons were asleep
or fuming with the desire for bed, there she
sat, pale and determined, ready to encourage
a good parti or frown upon a bad
one, or on me if I encouraged him. Many
a time have I reached home smarting from
the pinches she, for my own good, had bestowed
upon my arms when I had been
more than usually obstinate in preferring
some good-looking Guardsman, with three
hundred a-year, to an elder son ready to
place the disposal of his prospective income
at my feet.

And her vigilance had its reward, for at
the end of my second season, just as papa
was beginning his annual growl about the

bills, the Morning Post was enabled (by
mamma sending them the information) to
announce my forthcoming marriage with Sir
Thomas Tilbury, of Happlehome Hall,
Hearts, and Dustygrove Manor, Staffordshire,
quite one of the best men, in a pecuniary
sense, of the year. Tom loved me in the
most ridiculous, old-fashioned way, and
always treated me as if I were in some way
his superior, whereas — but I suppose I had
better keep my deficiencies to myself. Let
it suffice that I was rather pretty, could play
on the piano and sing after a fashion, knew
the date of a good many events in English
history, and the capital towns of some of
the principal countries, and had developed
unaided by any previous knowledge or
training — a quite marvellous amount of
aesthetic taste in what we all called ^' High
Art" furniture. I think I knew how to
dress, too, and papa — who usually found
fault with me, so his testimony is important

said that I had an enormous talent for
spending money.

Well, " we were wed, and merrily rang
the bells" in Hertfordshire and Staffordshire,
and down at papa's place, such a dismal
one, where we used to have shoulders
of mutton for lunch and rings for our napkins
; and we went off for our honeymoon
amid the orthodox shower of old shoes,
grinning like a couple of idiots, as we no
doubt were.

And here one of the most humiliating of
my confessions must come. I was absurdly,
inexpressibly happy during this same honeymoon.
I had so often laughed at the thing,
and vowed it was a relic of barbarism, and
that a married couple should at once commence
the life apart from each other, except
at meal times, which is their after-fate, that
it was very dreadful to me to be so happy.

Of course, no one is ever " in love " nowadays,
so it could not have been that. No,.

I fancy it must have been the getting away
from papa and mamma; combined, perhaps,
with the feeling that I was now free to
.amuse myself as I listed ; with no one to
frown or say unpleasant things to me when
I flirted, even if it were with dear, handsome,
penniless Captain Regy Rapper of the
Lancers. Regy had always been my favourite
partner, and his despair when I told him
that the announcement in the Morning Post
was true was very touching.

'* I suppose I shall never see you again
now," he said, and I declare the look in his
big blue eyes quite made my heart beat. I
assured him that my marriage would make
no difference ; except, indeed, that it would
enable me to see my friends oftener than
ever. But he would go on talking nonsense
about my being lost to him, and so on, till
I was quite glad when my next partner
came up and took me away from the poor
captain.

A melancholy man at a ball is perfectly

intolerable ; he should do all that sort of
thing at his club, and put on high spirits
just as he puts on a dress-coat when he
comes out to amuse us.

He came to the wedding — which he
thought it funny to call " the funeral," I
remember — and really made it look as if it
were what he called it ; and the reproachful
look he gave me as I got into the carriage
with Tom would have been touching, only
at that moment I was taken up with Tom's
stupidity in letting some of my lace get shut
up in the door.

It was rather curious that the very first
words I ever addressed to my husband —
after he was my husband — were cross ones,
but seeing lace like that in such danger
would make anyone cross.

But somehow, clumsy and stupid and
ridiculously in love as Tom was, the honeymoon
went like lightning, and I scarcely
opened one of the many books (French
novels nearly all of them) that I had taken

to while away what I thought would be so
very dreary a time.

However, as there was no one there to
see except the servants, and they expected
us to be loving, I managed to put up with
treacledom of the most orthodox type : let
Tom put his arm round my waist whenever
we sat down on a bench in the park, and
left my hand in his for hours together ; in
fact, we "kept company "just as the footman
and maid do, and spooned like a
couple of sentimental German tradespeople.
But everything must have an end, and
eventually we returned to the world, which
no doubt had not missed us very much
during our absence.

The first person to call in Belgrade
Square, where we had a house furnished in
high-art style from cellar to attic, was Regy
Rapper, who looked rather ill and depressed,
poor fellow, but rallied when he saw
that he was boring me, and told us all the
news, and made himself very agreeable,

taking Tom off at last to look at some
horses at TattersalVs — some of his own, I
think they were — which poor Tom ended
by buying, and did not pay more than
double their value.

That was Tom's great foible, good-nature ;
he never could say " No " to anyone, and,
if he fancied a man of his acquaintance was
hard-up or in any trouble, there was scarcely
any folly he would not commit.

"What's the use of my being rich if I
can't help my friends who are poor ?" he
would say; and it was in vain I preached'
to him on the utter uselessness of such doings,
and on the host of enemies he would
raise up for himself if he lent people money.

'' Then I'll give it, you small philosopher,"
he said, giving me a kiss ; " but don't you
be led away by those humbugging sayings.
A gentleman feels no humiliation in being
under an obligation ; it's only a cad who
dislikes the man who has helped him."

Of course we did not stay in London long,

but soon migrated to Dustygrove — a nice
old place, well situated for hunting — and
soon after arrived Elegy Rapper, with four
horses, and took up his abode with us,
apparently for the rest of the hunting
season. I thought this rather cool, for I
am sure, whatever I may have said, I never
meant him to stay more than a usual visit ;
but, after all, he was very amusing and useful,
and fetched and carried for me very
well, and always looked nice, and never
dreamed of flirting with anyone but me,
though Lady Daydreeme would have given
her eyes to detach him ; so, as long as Tom
did not object, it was not for me to do so. But,
after he had been with us about six weeks,
Tom did object, and for the first time his
manner to me was decidedly unpleasant.

*' Some ill-natured woman has been abusing
me to you," I said, for I was annoyed.
I liked Tom always to be smiling and affectionate
to me.

*' I shouldn't allow anyone to abuse you

to me, but I confess that I have heard
something that has put me out."

*' So you want poor Regy put out too," I
said, with angry flippancy.

*' I certainly think such a long visit as
this unusual, and I don't choose my wife to
be talked about."

And I don't choose my friend to be
turned out of my house just because a set
of country bumpkins, who know nothing of
Society, choose to jabber."

Tom got rather white. I had never seen
him angry before, and I think it became
him. I felt that if he looked at me lonsj in
that stern way, I should give in, and begin
to cry, and ask him to pet me again ; but
he said nothing, evidently putting a good
deal of restraint on himself to remain silent,
and left my room. And then I set to work
and cried, just like the heroine of one of
those dreary romances that amused our
grandmothers, who were always retiring to
their own rooms, letting down their hair,

VOL. III. E

and, while calling upon their lovers by their
surnames, shedding bucketfuls of tears. But
it was of course important that in our first
domestic difference I should win, so I stood
firmly to my guns, and that very night,
before Tom and several other people, I
asked Hey to manage so that he could stay
with us to the end of the season. Regy,
who had never intended to go, accepted
with rather an amused look in his face, and
said things that evening to me — when Tom
was nodding over the paper in the smoking-room
— which I ought not to have allowed ;

but I was angry with Tom, and — and

Well, anyhow I did not resent them.

And let me mention here that it is not so
easy a thing for a virtuous matron to resent
these things as it may seem to those who
think the fictions I before mentioned — with
the heroine's awe-inspiring " Sir !" — are
natural and like unto life. You cannot box
a man's ears without creating a scandal ;
leaving the room is not much use ; and as

to bringing confusion on a nineteenth-century
adonis by cold looks or proud glances,
you might as well try to quiet a naiad bull
with a bundle of tracts.

AVell, I am not going to weary you by
the account of how Regy gradually got a
certain amount of influence over me, and
made me do things which I did not at heart
want to do, and made me tell him — which
was not true — that I was fond of him, and
made me use all sorts of little mean tricks
to blind poor dear credulous Tom, who
nevertheless seemed to be losing his spirits
and fretting a great deal about something.

Of course Regy was quite right when he
said that 1 was only doing exactly what
everyone else in my position was also doing
; that the age of prudery and all that
kind of folly was over ; but then there was
one thing that he overlooked, and which I
am really ashamed to put down here : that
I liked my husband better than Captain
Rapper.

UNIVERSITY OF E 2

Of course Elegy was a hundred times
better-looking and more clever and popular
than Tom, but — it was some sad want in
ray constitution — I neglected to find the
usual sweetness in him, and secretly and
with much confusion preferred the plain
bread and butter of everyday life to which
I was lawfully and prosaically entitled.
And at last I think this strange fact seemed
to dawn upon Regy ; he became savage,
and tyrannised over me in the most fearful
ways. T really had to manoeuvre with intense
cunning to get a little time alone with
Tom now and then ; and Regy was always
catching us together, and was angry after
having done so, so that ray life was made
perfectly wretched. Tom's low spirits, too,
did not make things much pleasant ; and
my delight knew no bounds when, one day,
towards the end of February, Regy announced
that he was going to Melton for a
week's hunting. I tried to catch Tom's eye
as he told us this, but only caught Regy's ;

and he divined what was in my mind, and
looked positively diabolic.

As the time for his departure grew near,
I counted the days ; but my disappointment
was great when, the very day before the
blessed departure was to take place, Tom
suddenly determined to go to London.

I have had some business to do for
some time," he said, when we were alone
together for a few moments, Regy having
gone to the stables to smoke a pipe ; " and
and — it is best perhaps you should know
the truth. Cicely. You have chosen that
the county should talk of you in such a
way that, though of course I do not believe
there is a particle of truth in the gossip,
yet I don't choose to leave my home while
Rapper is here. His visit to Melton enables
me to do my business."

I longed to tell him all — yes, all the
truth — for Tom would have forgiven me, I
know, and there was nothing really bad to
tell ; but Regy came in at that moment, and

the opportunity was lost. The next day he
Tom — went by an early train, and Regy
was to go after lunch. I found a note on
the hall-table when I came down in my
husband's hand. It was to the effect that,
although he disdained such a feeling as
jealousy, and would not insult himself and
me by thinking there could be anything
wrong, yet my conduct in insisting on the
perpetual presence with me of Regy was
very hurtful to my reputation and his feelings
; that of course, if I insisted, he was
not prepared to take any active steps to
shorten that gentleman's visit, but that he
could not help thinking I would respect his
wishes, and perhaps, in memory of the affection
he still believed I had once borne him,
would , &c., &c.

It was stiff and ill-expressed, but I could
read affection and pain between the lines,
and I made up my mind on the spot as to
my course of action.

I managed to avoid Regy till luncheon.

and then, to my horror, he informed me
that he had changed his plans, and was not
going to Melton.

"Indeed, I wrote to put that off three
days ago," he said, smiling in such a cunning
way, " directly I heard he was going to
town. We shall have a whole week together."


I tried to snub him — I tried to tell him
the truth. Whether it was my excessive
weakness, or his enormous strength of
character, I know not, but I only know I
failed, and felt more than ever in his power
now ; and with my husband ever so many
miles away, too. What could I do ? I
could not turn the man out of the house ;
and yet I knew the talk — bad enough before
— would redouble now. What could I
do, I say ? I made up my mind. Just as
the servants were laying the cloth for dinner,
when Elegy was smoking his usual cigarette
in the conservatory, a veiled figure might
have been observed to steal from the side-door

near the garden, and take the direction
of the town. It was 1. My heart
stood still as I moved noiselessly past the
conservatory. My terror of the man there
was causeless, but it was absolute. I felt
that, were I caught in my flight, he would
keep me chained at home, unable to escape
from his influence ; so I stole away ; half
walked, half ran the five miles between me
and the railway station ; took a place in the
night mail to London, and whirled into that
city about nine o'clock, cold, hungry, footsore,
and excited. I had forgotten to bring
enough money, and fearing I should not
perhaps find Tom, was afraid to take a cab,
so, losing my way constantly, I walked
through the wet streets from Euston Square,
and eventually reached the Albany, where
Tom had rooms — his old rooms — as the house
in Belgrade Square was being repainted.

The woman who opened the door belonged
to the place, and did not know me.

Sir Thomas is engaged," she said.

Oh ! tell him a lady wishes to see him
on urgent business."

Why, that's what the other lady said
just now," said the woman, grinning.

'' The other lady !"

'' Yes ; as is with him now."

I turned pale, faint. TJiis was my reward,
then, for flying from my home !

Let me in !" I exclaimed, pushing past
the old woman with the strength of a fury.
Let me pass ! I am his wife !"

I do not know whether my strength or
the announcement of my position did it, but '
I got in, and dashed into the room, knowing
the way, as I had come with mamma to
have tea with him once after we were engaged.
There was Tom standing by the
fire, and there — yes — there on the table,
were a bonnet and shawl !

I could not speak. I merely advanced
to the centre of the room, and pointed to
the evidence of his depravity.

He vas too astonished to speak either,

and we stood silently confronting one another
for a moment. Then the door of the
other room opened, and there came out —
his sister Emily, a dear old thing, but rather
too fond of lecturing her-brother's wife.

The revulsion of feeling, the journey, the
excitement, perhaps the want of dinner,
took effect on me, and for about the first
time in my life I fainted away. When I
came back Emily had gone, and I was alone
with Tom. Then, with my head on his
dear broad shoulder, I told him everything
everything, and he forgave me ; and that
night in his old bachelor chambers was the
happiest, I think, of my life.

But, readers, if you are shocked at the
sad story of a woman running away from
a fashionable existence to the goody-goody
delights of legitimate affection, do not be
cast down. My story may not be true ;
and, if it is, it may be looked upon as the
history of an event pretty certain never to
occur again among us.

THE PRIDE OF Kildare.

CHAPTER I.

rriHE Hunt dinner at Kilmacruddery.
-^ Need coats and red noses, sparkling
jokes and equally sparkling wine, long
stories and long draughts at the old claret
—'48 some of it, at least, so the M.F.H.
says ; spirited compounds and more spirited
accounts of " ancient runs, devoid of truth ;"
great fences jumped over the mahogany,
which, in the good old fashion, is stripped
of its linen cover after dinner; popping,
prosing, punning, and poesy.

"We must have a song," said the M.F.H.

A song !" was the universal cry.

I don't mind," said Mr. O'Halloran of
O'Halloran ; '' but it's only one I made
myself."

What's the name ?"

'the Pride of Kilclare.' "

Haven't I heard that title before ?"

No ; only something very like it."

"Well, go ahead!"

O'Halloran of O'Halloran rose, and
putting on an intensely sentimental face,
which caused a titter among the younger
men at the table, commenced in a voice
none the worse for its mellow brogue : —
I.

There are sweet eyes around the land,

And honeyed words are flowing ;
And men and maidens, hand-in-hand,
In moonlit walks are going :
But who can e'er
For eyes compare
With Nora — sweet Nora —
Oh, Nora ! the pride of Kilclare ?

II.

Her gentle words such music are,
That the angels cease from singing ;

And the south winds waft their notes afar
On the balmy breezes ringing :

For who could e'er

For tones compare
With Nora — sweet Nora —
Oh, Nora ! the pride of Kilclare ?

III.

When she steps forth on the green earth,

The daisies bow with pleasure,
And the night-fays dance, in airy mirth.
On the faith a happier measure :
Though they could ne'er
For spells compare
With Nora — sweet Nora —
Oh, Nora ! the pride of Kilclare !

IV.

But the eyes are dim we love so well,
With tears that are hateful seeing ;
For a haughty Saxon bears the bell.
And our Celtic love is fleeing.

And though she cries.

She will not be wise,
And stay in her own Kilclare :

So we must e'er

With the stranger share
Our Nora — sweet Nora —
Once Nora the pride of Kilclare !

There was great rattling of glasses and
thumping of knife-handles at the conclusion
of the song. Dermot Desmond only evinced
no admiration, but sat gloomily silent,
with anger in his dark, wild eyes.

Two or three of those around had glanced
at him during the song ; it was evident that
it was considered of especial interest for
him. But he said nothing; only his hand
unconsciously clutched the glass before him,
as if it had been the neck of an enemy.

"That's a capital song," said one, "and
embodies exactly what we all think.
O'O'More ought to be kicked for selling his
daughter to a dirty London tradesman."

There's a big debt on the estate," said
another.

"What of that? Isn't there a big debt
on all our estates ? To my mind there's
something shabby in an estate without a big
debt on it."

"Devilish little shabbiness here, then,"
said Dermot, speaking for the first time.

*this Englishman, Smyth — fancy an
O'O'More turning into a Smyth ! — he's going
to pay off every penny of the debt, I'm
told," said an elderly man at the top of the
table, a magnificent specimen of the Irish

gentleman, owning some twelve thousand
acres, and with nearly enough mortgage
deeds to cover every acre with their parchment.


'' It's a good price for an Irish girl, eh ?"
said Dermot, with suppressed rage. *' She's
doing credit to her bringing up, after all.
You see there is some use in blue blood."

Several of the men looked at each other
meaningly ; for it was well known throughout
the county that Dermot Desmond and
Nora O'O'More had been in that semi-state of
eagerness, which is only prevented from
blossoming out into the real thing by lack of
funds, for two or three years.

Nora was the daughter of Mr. O'O'More
of Castle O'O'More, the representative of a
family that traced its history back into the
mists of a time when the '* old families " of
England had not been thought of, and Der-mot,
not a whit inferior to him in blood, ran
him hard for equality as to the amount
of encumbrances placed by careless and

VOL. III. F

hospitable ancestors upon his broad acres.

That Dermot would have married his
*' own love," and that they would have
scraped along through debt and difficulty
much as their parents had done before themis
certain, had not a quantity of the mortgages
fallen into the hands of a London
merchant, whose liking for sport and scenery
led him to desire an Irish estate, and had
not that merchant's eldest son come to the
county of Kilclare, and been at once
knocked over by the bright eyes of Nora,
the pride of the said county.

Old Mr. Smyth cared little for his son's
love affairs, and insisted on foreclosing. To
lose the old property and the Castle was a
sore trouble to Mr. O'O'More. It can scarcely
be wondered that when young Smyth came
forward and offered to avert this danger by
means of his own fortune, which his father
could not touch, the extremity of the crisis
made his condition. Miss Nora's hand, seem
less onerous than it might have done had

the calamity not been so great and pressing.
As to Nora, she quite agreed with her
father that to save the property for the
family — for young Mervin, her brother,
and those who might come after him — the
sacrifice of herself and her love was not too
great. Dermot was very dear to her. The
idea of being his wife some day had always
been in her heart ; but it could not be ; and
she nerved herself to bear the inward pain
as befitted the descendant of old Irish
Kings. That the last years of her father's
life should be happy was a great thing, and
she almost forgot Dermot's wild passionate
eyes when she heard the old man planning
the wonderful things he would do when the
money came, and for the first time for
centuries the full rents of the estates had
not to be paid away immediately after receipt
at the office : how he would build new
stables, and make another approach, and
set up a model farm, and many other
pleasant and interesting improvements.

f2

But Errant, half-educated and passionate,
did not take things in this quiet way. At
first he vowed he would have Miles Smyth's
life, and was very tragic and nonsensical ;
then he would emigrate, which might have
done him a great deal of good ; then he
tried to make Nora run away with him, and
used very bad language when she refused,
and drove the poor girl wild by making
her bare her heart over and over again
before him.

You know I love you, Dermot," she
said. " Why make me repeat it so often ?
I so love you, I would give anything almost
to marry you."

'' Almost !" he repeats, with a sneer.

*eyes, almost. I am called upon to
sacrifice myself "

And me "

*'!N"o, Dermot dear! You are a man.
You will go into the world and do things
and forget. You are angry and hurt now,
of course ; but it will soon be over. Don't

look SO angry' ! There ! — that is the last
kiss I shall ever give sou, for it would
be wrong. Good-bye, Dermot dear ! Of
course, we shall often meet, but not like
this again. No ! I could not bear it. But
for this half-hour it was pleasant to be
again the Dermot and Nora of old days.
But that is over now. Good-bye."

'* It shall not be so ! — it is not over !" he
cried, passionately, holding her in his strong
arms. ** No one in the world shall part
us, for we love one another. Your father is
a selfish old fool, and only sells you for his*
own "

^' You shall not say those words," she
said, disengaging herself and facing him
angrily. "I give myself to — to Mr. Smyth
of my own free will, for the sake of my
family."

He gave a mirthless, bitter laugh at her
hesitation over the name of her selected
husband.

So be it," he said, looking wonderfully

handsome in his scorn. "Go to your
money-bags with your Smyth, and comfort
yourself with the thought that you have
broken the heart that loved you !"

Then he turned and left her without a
look — left her alone with her sorrow.

Miles Smyth was one of those men who
were nearly unknown in this country fifty
years ago. He claimed no gentility other
than that which was natural to him. He
was proud of his position in the middle
class, and, while not aspiring to be better
than he was, would have been ashamed to
descend one inch in the social scale.
Brought up in exactly the same way as the
sons of the greatest in the land, and having
made many good friends of those above
him, he found no difficulty, on arriving atman's
estate, in understanding the nature of
the gulf that divided him from them. He
saw, of course, that many of his compeers
built bridges of gold, cemented by flattery
and tuft-hunting, which carried them across ;

but he also realised how very frail these
structures were, and how difficult and
degrading it was to keep them in working
order. Having met on a tour in Italy,
after leaving college, a Christchurch friend,

the Marquis of A , he willingly joined

him, and visited in his company the wonders
of that sunny land ; but, to the noble lord's
astonishment, he said, as the steamer was
nearing the harbour of Dover —

Good-bye, my Lord !"

''My Lord! What do you mean.
Miles?"

*'Mr. Smyth, please. 1 am Mr. Smyth,
of Bishopsgate Street, and you are Lord

A , of ever so many places. Your way

and mine lie far apart. We have enjoyed
ourselves vastly, I admit, and I am sorry
it is over. But now it is over, I want you
to understand our relative positions."

'not a bit of it!" cried the Lord, hotly.
Such distinctions between gentlemen "

'' Are necessary and salutary' interrupted

Miles. "The gentlemen argument won't
wash. Any one of my labourers may be
as much a gentleman at heart as I, but I
don't care to make him my friend. The
safety and welfare of Society depend upon
keeping up the lines between classes. I
have my pride, my Lord, and I should not
care to go about among those superior tome,
having to own and to feel their
superiority every moment. I daresay it's a
weakness — pride often is — but that is the
fact."

Well, you are a queer chap. Miles,"

said Lord A , and then the steamer

bumped against the pier, the scramble for
bags, and umbrellas, and rugs commenced,
and the two young men drifted apart, and
remained apart ; for Miles acted up to his
opinions.

No one could say Miles Smyth was ugly,
but neither could they call him handsome.
Manly, self-reliant, healthy, and English-looking,
he was just such a one as you may

see every day in this country ; common-place,
perhaps, but not such a bad specimen of
manhood after all. His principles did not
interfere much with his projects as to the
O'O'More family ; for, truth to tell, he looked
upon their splendid ancestry as a myth, and
could see no beauty or object of reverence
in a rank which rested only on tradition,
and which was so palpably out at elbows.
Blue blood that was unconnected with
influence or with money did not find much
favour in his sight, and when, on his first
visit to the Castle, he had suggested that
young O'O'More — then fourteen yea.TS old —
should be sent into trade, the father's indignant
answer roused in him nothing but rather
contemptuous amusement. He thought it
quite according to a wise scheme of the
universe that '^ the mass ought to labour,"
and the aristocracy "lay on offices," as
Bigelow has it ; but then the aristocracy must
have all the attributes of their kind, and
must be able to pay handsomely for their

grand indolence. The past was of very
little moment to him if it had left nothing
but its memory behind, and the only thing
he did not fully like in Nora was her blind
adoration of the traditions of her house.
Her ancestors might no doubt have been, as
she said, Kings of Ireland, but a King who
left his descendants to live upon rabbits,
screw the tenants, and plot and scheme for
the decencies of life, stood about as high in
Miles' estimation as a bankrupt stockbroker.


Nora scarcely understood the character
of the man she had promised to marry.
She exaggerated his hardness, his utilitarianism,
his determined way of looking only to
results, and gave him little credit for the
many good qualities which his reserved
nature seldom allowed him to show. It is
true that he had proved himself very
generous as regarded the pecuniary assistance
he was to give her father ; but then, the
girl thought, with a pride pardonable in

such an acknowledged beauty, he was only
giving a big price for an article he wanted
very much ; in the same way that Manchester
men gave unlimited hundreds for their
horses, and thousands for their pictures.

That he had tact she was forced to admit,
for not even Dermot had ever got on so
well with her irascible father, whose scarcely
veiled contempt for the roturier he good-naturedly
ignored ; while his skill with gun
and rod had already done away with all the
prejudice which her little brother Mervin
had cherished against the rich Englishman.

Many people called Miles Smyth purse-proud,
and, in a certain sense, no doubt
with reason. He was proud of the skill,
perseverance, and honesty which had raised
his family from their obscure position ; he
vas proud of being an English merchant ;
he was proud of having it in his power to
assist his fellow-men.

To be rich was very pleasant to him, to
be richer still would be pleasant; the

measure of greatness of his class was wealth,
and he was not a man to stand still when
well on his way up the hill.

When I make a big sum from a fair,
sound venture," he said on one occasion, " I
feel much as I suppose an earl feels when
he hears the Sovereign intends to make him
a marquis, or a duke when he gets the
Garter, or as a day-labourer feels when he
is made foreman."

Such was the man whom Nora O'O'More,
the wild, high-spirited beauty of Kilclare,
was to wed. No wonder there was much
wagging of heads and utterance of gloomy
prophecy among his friends and relatives in
London when they heard of it ; no wonder
that old Mr. Smyth raged furiously, until he
brought on a fit of the gout which would
have done credit to the highest-fed duke in
the land.

I thought him the cleverest of the
bunch," groaned the poor old gentleman,
^* and here he is marrying an Irish pauper

to fling away his money and look down upon
him because he hadn't a barbarian king as a.
great-grandfather."

Nothing, however, could stop Miles
Smyth when once his mind was made up ;
and the marriage was duly solemnised in the
little church near the Castle ; the bridegroom
signalising his victory over the
gloomy Dermot Desmond by an invitation
to stay with him in South Kensington, which
invitation caused that gentleman some little
wonderment, mixed with a satisfaction of
which we had rather not inquire the reason.
Miles had found out — no matter how —
the state of affairs between the lovers, and
perhaps felt that some little compensation
was due to the defeated rival. As to doubting
his wife, he would have as soon doubted
the sun and stars, for he was a man who did
not give his trust at all except in full.

CHAPTER II.

*' 1\1"Y DEAR," said Miles one day, entering

[^g ]sis wife's pretty boudoir in their
South Kensington House, ''I hear Dermot
Desmond has come to town, and is at the
Euston Square Hotel. Will you write and
ask him to come here, and to stay here as
long as he is in London ?"

Nora hesitated a moment, and then,
blushing slightly, said,

I had rather not, Miles."

'rather not! Why, I thought he was
such a friend of yours !"

We have known each other from— from
I don't know when."

*well, all the more reason for asking
him."

Miles," said she, turning to him suddenly,
*'I think I had rather he didn't come
here."

"Why?"

I don't know ; at least, must I have a
reason for everything?"

No ; women need not, I believe. Butin
this case I think you should. At any
rate, I am afraid he must be asked, if not
by you, then by me ; for I know he only
comes to tov^n on the strength of my invitation
here — and perhaps his finances "

How you despise poor people !" she*
flashed out.

Certainly I do not. I have perhaps no
great admiration for those who are content
to be poor when they are young and strong ;
but "

As if Dermot Desmond could be expected
to be a clerk and sit on a three-legged
stool !"

"As I do?"

You ? You are different."

"Yes, I'm only a plain, every-day kind
of animal, and Desmond is the descendant
of a line of kings. Nevertheless, His
Majesty has consented to live a short while
in his subject's house ; and so the letter had
better be written. Will you write it ? I
had rather it came from you."

And I had rather it came from you, if
it must come at all," she said, with something
very like crossness in her tone.

Don't you see, my dear," he went on,
calmly, and in what Nora called his ^' business
manner," " don't you see that it will be
ever so much nicer for him to get the invitation
from you ? I know him very little,
and I don't think he is particularly fond of
me. Of course I only ask him as a friend
of yours. Sit down like a good child, and
tell him to come at once. We'll have some
people to amuse him at dinner tomorrow."

She put her hand on his arm.
You are really anxious I should
write ?"

Miles looked into her eyes for a moment,
and then said, with a laugh —

^' Why, what a serious business we make
of it! Of course! Send the note by a
messenger. And now I must be off to the
City."

So Nora, as the door closed behind her
husband, sat down and wrote, in her rather
sprawling, but characteristic hand —

'' Dear Dermot,

We have only just heard you
are in town. Of course you will leave that'
nasty hotel and come here. Your room is
ready for you, and my husband begs me to
say that he hopes you can come to-day. I
shall be very glad to see you again.
'' Yours very truly,

Nora Smyth."

It must not be supposed that this note
was written without effort. Many copies
were made, some beginning with " Dear
Mr. Desmond," some *' My dear Dermot,"

VOL. III. G

and some solving the initial difficulty by
plunging at once in medias 7'es without
any commencement ; but eventually she
sent the one she had first written, in despair
of finding any to please her better.

That last sentence was certainly too warm,
but then without it the letter was decidedly
too cold. If she had married twenty'' Mr.
Smiths it would not do away with the fact
that she had known Dermot all her life.
Of course Miles knew how intimate they
had been ; she suspected he knew of the
love affair ; and therefore his wish to have
Dermot in his house showed that he had no
dislike to their intimacy.

She wondered whether he was as good-looking
as ever — as she remembered him
on that eventful day eighteen months ago,
when she met his reproachful look as she
stepped into the carriage to go forth with
her new lord and master. She wondered
what his manner now to her would be.

Would he accept the situation gracefully,
and let them glide back into the old 
friendship that had been so pleasant
until love came in and made it — if
pleasant in some ways — still full of pains
and penalties? Or would he be reproachful
and gloomy, and keep the memory of
her broken faith before her always ? How
handsome he was ! how courageous ! It
seemed almost impossible to believe that ina
few hours he would be standing there in
that room, where she had spent so many
dull hours of converse with the most respectable
wives of City magnates.

Every time the door-bell rang her heart
throbbed and her hand trembled. She
would have given all she had in the world
to prevent his coming ; she would die if he
did not come.

She hated herself for her folly, but she
would not have exchanged that folly for all
the wisdom of Solomon. And among the

g2

thoughts surging in her poor little head
came a dim consciousness of unworthiness —
a feeling that she was base to betray, even
in thought, the trust Miles had placed in
her.

The awful moment arrived. *' Mr. Desmond
!" was announced, and, to her surprise,
Nora found herself asking the usual
questions about the state of the Channel,
the punctuality of the trains, &c., with which
we greet a traveller. Not for some time
did she venture to raise her eyes and survey
him.

Yes, he was as handsome as ever; perhaps
not quite as much at his ease in his
London clothes as he used to be in the
careless garb of the country, but with a
high-bred air that there was no mistaking.
And then, just as Nora had settled that no
one she had ever yet seen could look like
this, in came Mr. Smyth, dirty and smart,
from his office ; and who could have helped
comparing the two men ? Miles's rather

prim, methodical manner, too, stood in
marked contrast to Dermof s easy, indolent
grace. Nature had taught him how to
address a woman so that the most commonplace
remark was a compliment, and a
compliment in his lips was almost a caress ;
but Nature had not taken the trouble to
instruct him as to his demeanour to his own
sex, and his manner with men he did not
intimately know was generally overbearing,
and sometimes offensive in its careless rudeness.
Personal courage was about his only
virtue, and, as Bernard Mandeville marksman
attribute we share with wild beasts is
scarcely one to be very proud of. Miles
Smyth thought he had fathomed his character
; and, although it was not one he liked,
he gave the Irish Adonis credit for many
good qualities he did not possess. He
thought him generous, if spendthrift, while
he was avaricious to a high degree. He
thought him trusting and frank, while he
was cunning and a schemer by nature.

Taking it altogether, the man who admitted
a viper into the family circle did a wise
thing compared with Dermot's admission into
the South Kensington household.

It may be said that Nora, who was no
fool, should have learned this man's character
during their intimacy, but a little
brilliancy in a handsome man goes a long
way with even clever women, who see so
often, as it were, with their hearts, and
clothe with all imaginable virtues of their
own invention the creature whose outward
semblance has caused those hearts to flutter.
And Dermot was adroit enough to conceal
his bad qualities from the girl it amused
him to think he loved, and whose flattery
and affection were soothing to his vanity.
He was ill-tempered before her sometimes,
it is true, but allowed himself to be
coaxed into equanimity again so nicely that
Nora rather enjoyed the bursts of passion
which she was called upon to quell, and was
proud of her power over them. His selfishness

she took as a matter of course, and
never ceased to pity him for lacking pleasures
that so many lesser beings enjoyed.

Now, when he came to her house, her
heart swelled with indignation to think that
her husband should roll in riches, and that
to this being — this almost demi-god — a
journey from London to Dublin was a
serious matter to be thought over with much
calculating of resources.

The Desmond had some relatives in high
places in London, and soon Dermot's 
in the little sitting-room they had
fitted up for him, leading out of his bedroom,
was encircled by a quantity of cards
of invitation ; for his looks were a sure
passport. He did not become popular with
men ; but he cared very little for that, and
revelled in the new life now, for the first
time, opened to him.

I told you he would make a sensation,"
said Nora, to her husband.

"Yes, and I daresay he will; probably a

very unpleasant one. Do you lend him
money, Nora?"

She coloured.

"If you mean as a habit, certainly not.
The other day he wanted some for a short
time — just till "

*' Till his rents come in, I suppose?"

"Well, his rents do come in, don't they?
I can see nothing to be sarcastic about,
Miles !"

How much did you lend him ?"

"The money you give me for myself is
my own, isn't it ?"

"Of course it is; but I want to know
how much you lent him."

A hundred pounds."

Oh ! He's moderate at first. Look
here, Nora, I don't intend this to happen
again. If he wants money to go on with,
let him ask me."

Oh, he couldn't well do that, you know.
He is so proud "

So proud that he goes to my wife

behind my back," said Miles, contemptuously.


You forget that we are almost brother
and sister."

"I forget nothing. But this I know,
that if Mr. Desmond can't do without borrowing,
and insists in fixing upon you to
borrow from, I shall ask him to leave ray
house."

And I shall ask him to stay," she cried,
with her eyes flashing.

Miles smiled.

"I daresay he would stay, too. Ili
quarters are comfortable enough here. And
the living is cheap."

'' I declare I believe you measure everything
by your dirty money," she said,
angrily.

However dirty, I fancy it is a thing to
which our friend is not averse. But listen
to me. I happen to know he has been
playing of late ; and I'm not going to give
him money, through you, to gamble away.

If he asks you for money again, Nora, I
insist that you refer him to me."

When Miles put on that tone, Nora knew
that it was of no use to argue, so she very
wisely held her tongue.

Dermot did come to her again for the
sinews oE war, and was referred to her husband.
Miles was very disagreeable and
firm about the high whist ; but, after all, as
Dermot said to himself when he left Miles's
study with a cheque for £500 in his pocket,
promises are quite as easy to break as they
are to make.

CHAPTER III.

Thou have no doubt often passed down
-■- the short street leading eastward from
Arlington Street to St. James's Street without
remarking a blue baize door, giving
entrance into a modest, sleepy-looking
house, which might pass for a decayed
but genteel hotel, or the office of a languishing
if honest company, say for the
diffusion of morality among the upper
classes ; or, if you happen to have remarked
the door, you have never felt the
smallest inclination to pass through it and
penetrate to what you no doubt suppose
would be gloom and shabbiness. And yet
this is the well-known Exminster Club,,

named after its founder and principal
patron, an evening haunt of the greatest in
the land, where thousands of pounds change
hands nightly, and where, from ten or
eleven until the daylight is far advanced,
may be heard the rattle of the dice and the
smothered oaths of the losers. To be a
member of the Exminster requires a good
many attributes, not perhaps exactly of
goodness or greatness. To be elected you
must be rich, or at least be able to live as if
you were rich ; you must be of the best
Society; and you must be fond of play. If
you are very rich and very fond of play, no
doubt the other qualification may sometimes
be dispensed with, for, after all, it is
no disgrace for a lord to ease a shopkeeper s
son of money, if the shopkeeper's son knows
how to lose it like a gentleman.

Some people said that the pay at the
Exminster was not always as prompt as it
should be, and that the standing — or rather
running — account which some members kept

and left in the hall-porter's hands was rather
a farce ; but then such cavilling outsiders
did not know that it was only the privileged
ones who could do this : men who were
absolutely certain to pay sooner or later,
and whose position in Society and influence
were such that no lesser beings would dare
refuse to play with them. These dilatory
aristocrats were a nuisance certainly, but
then you must expect to pay a good price
for being able to jostle the big ones of the

land every night in the charming familiarity

•

of gambling greediness. Dermot Desmond,
at any rate, was willing to take his chance
of being kept waiting, and perhaps one of
the proudest moments of his life was when
Lord Exminster slapped him on the back in
Piccadilly, and told him he had been elected.
Dermot was a true gambler, and nothing but
his attenuated purse prevented his being a
very worthy member of this noble society.
However, such a trifle was not allowed to
stand in his way, and, aided by Fortune fora

time, he played as if the Bank of England
was at his back.

Nora was much perturbed at all this, but
found herself quite unable to check his
downward course ; and, as he came less to
South Kensington now (having removed to
a lodging in St. James's), and generally
timed his visits so as to avoid Miles, that
gentleman scarcely ever mentioned his
name, save every now and then to inquire
of Nora whether he had yet returned to
Ireland.

A few days after Dermot's election to the
Exminster Club, he, having fortified himself
by a good dinner, went through the blue
baize doors for the first time, his heart
beating rather quickly, determined to do or
die.

He was a vain man, fond of dramatic
effect, and he thought it would be well of
him to commence with a flourish. So he
got together all the money he could, borrowing,
we are sorry to say, again from

Nora, and thereby causing her to break a
promise, and, armed with this wealth, prepared
to court the smiles of Fortune.

And at first he gained them. The fickle
goddess, woman-like, seemed to have taken
the handsome good-for-nothing under her
especial protection, and murmurs of astonishment
at his luck went round the room.
It was not as yet the fashion to cheat at the
Exminster, which was perhaps lucky for
Dermot's character at that moment.

Just as he had landed a supreme coup at
hazard, Lord Exminster, Founder and King
of the Club, came in.

Lord Exminster deserves a few words of
notice at our hands. Having commenced
life as cadet of a great family, he had at
once perceived that in the world money is
power. To get money as quickly as possible
was therefore the sole aim he put before
him. Being a gentleman, he must be honest.
That went without saying; but then
people's ideas as to where the line between

honesty and its opposite should be drawn
differ a good deal. Charlie Hardly — as he
then was — discovered a consumptive heiress,
and employed upon her all his undoubted
power of fascination. There was not quite
time to be married, but there was time for
the infatuated girl to make a will ; and
when she died, her hand in her lover's, his
grief was somewhat assuaged by the knowledge
that he was a rich man. Some of the
poor heiress's relatives were angry, but their
voices were soon drowned by the hubbub
the lucky legatee created in London with
his stepping horses, and his good cook, and
his villa at Richmond, and his hunting
quarters in High Leicestershire, and his
unbounded hospitality. What could be
refused to such a man ? A minor post in
the Ministry ? A peerage ? Certainly not !
So he got both, and looked charming on
the Treasury bench of the Upper Chamber,
and had lovely note-paper to write to the
ladies upon with enormous coronets and

extortionate E's. Then, as his ambrosial
locks began to thin, he for the first time
contracted a vice which was not wise. He
became enamoured of gambling. Rich ashe
was, he found this an expensive taste,
and he determined to marry money. There
was but little difficulty about this. Lord
Exminster — he had taken his title from the
estate which was left him by his heiress
fiancee — was, if not in his first youth, still
good-looking, graceful, young to all intents
and purposes. What more natural than
that the pretty Lady Bolserville, widow of
the rich Sir Edward Bolserville, of Dangle,
and mistress of his entire fortune,
should fall in love with his face, his figure,
and his aristocraticalness. Lady Bolserville
was not blue-blooded herself, and reverenced
the tinge like an American or a
Radical.

All Lord Exminster's relatives were delighted,
and received her with open arms.
What a house they had in Piccadilly !

VOL. III. H

What dinners ! What charming parties !
What music ! And his Lordship was happy,
for now he could really afford to indulge in
his favourite amusement, the more so as no
children were born to them to suffer in the
future from the perverseness of the cards.
Such was the man who entered the club
just as Vermont Desmond's luck seemed to
have reached its summit.

Run of luck, eh ?" he said, divesting
himself leisurely of his white gloves, and
running one ringed hand through his side
locks, which curled lovingly upwards, as if
eager to cover the deficiencies of the top of
his Lordship's head. " A very nice thing,
a run of luck. How are ^''ou, Desmond ?
Congratulate you. Why, is there no more
hazard ?"

"No," said the man addressed. 'most
of them are at baccarat in the other room,
and there is a good deal of whist to-night.
We're not enough for hazard, that's the fact."

Well, Desmond," said Lord Exminster,

turning to our Irish chieftain with a courteous
smile, '' what do you say ? Shall I
try to relieve you of some of your winnings
at — well, say at ecarte f

Now Lord Axminster was one of the
finest ecarte players in the club, capable of
holding his own among Frenchmen, and
Dermot played the ordinary Englishman's
game, totally unenlightened as to the finer
subtleties of that most deceptive of all contests
of combined skill and chance.

Dermot did not like it, but he thought it
would look cowardly to say " No." This was
his first night at the club, he had won very
largely, and it was his proposer, the monarch
of the place, who desired him to play. So
he said "Yes."

The result was not very long in doubt.
Despite his luck, despite his frequent kings,
the losings mounted steadily up.

Dermot lost his head, and played wildly.
He drank brandy-and-soda, and played more
wildly still.

h2

At last his opponent stopped, just as he
was about to deal, and said, '^ I think one
rubber of five games more will be enough,
Mr. Desmond."

He had called him Desmond before ; but,
Dermot having in his excitement become
rather too familiar, the " Mister " came in
again.

*' Very well; but then I've no chance of
getting back anything worth mentioning,"
said Dermot, sulkily.

Excited as he Alas, he was well aware
that he had lost a sum which without help
he could never hope to pay. In his extremity
he thought of Nora, as an Italian
sailor invokes the Madonna in a storm.

*' You will not find me backward as to
stakes, Mr. Desmond," said the other,
glancing at the interested faces round the
table, for the news of a big battle with Ex-minster,
the plunger, in it, had attracted
members from the other rooms, and the

baccarat had languished and died. " I did
not know you wished to play higher.
What do you say to five hundred a game
and a thousand on the rub?"

Rubber of five ?"

Rubber of five."

'' Very well ; but must it be the last ?"

'' As you please ; but let us settle beforehand,
as it is getting late. Shall we play
three rubbers ?"

Dermot assented — he would have assented
to anything just then — wondering whether
the spectators could read in his face anything
of the desperation in his heart ; and his
opponent dealt the cards. Whether it was
that Lord Westminster played better now or
Dermot worse, is doubtful, but from this
moment the latter never won a game ; and
as he threw down his last card at the conclusion
of the third rubber, a loser of £7,500
on these three rubbers alone, a murmur,
partly of commiseration, went round the
room.

He rose from the table, his legs trembling,
and called for drink.

'never saw such luck," said one.

Never saw such play," said another.

"He's about done," whispered a third.

"Who is he? Is he rich! Irish! sure
to be poor. I suppose he'll pay. Must
have lost ten thousand in the night."

Such were the remarks heard on all
sides.

Lord Exminster, having made some notes
with a gold pencil in a coroneted pocketbook,
was about to rise, when Dermot suddenly
re appeared at the table, his face
flushed and his eyes staring.

AYill you go double or quits for the
whole, my Lord ?" he said, in a hoarse
voice.

There was a dead silence in the room,
only broken by his Lordship's slow sipping
of his weak sherry and water.

"It is a large stake," said he, at last

putting down his glass, and taking his notebook
from his pocket. "You owe me
now £8,700, Mr. Desmond."

"Do you suppose " began Dermot,

hotly.

'^ I suppose nothing. Of course no gentleman
in this club would risk more than he
could pay."

Of course not," said Dermot. " I know
it's a large sum, and will take me a day or
two, perhaps a week, to get, if I lose it, but
ray luck has been so infernal that "

"You think it's time it turned," put in
his Lordship, smiling. "Well, it is usual

here to settle at once, but in this case

You said a week, I think, Mr. Desmond ?"'

Dermot felt as if everyone there knew
the state of his banker's book, as he replied,
huskily,

"A week."

"Very well. I am rather sleepy, and
can only play one more game — that shall

be for double or quits on the whole amount
you owe me : that is, I think — yes — £17,400
or nothing."

Even for the Exminster this was a high
stake; and the excitement was breathless
as the game proceeded.

Errant began by scoring the king and
trick ; then he made another trick. Three
to nothing.

Lord Exminster made a vole.

Two to three. Dermot turned up another
king, but his opponent just managed
to make the trick.

Four to three. Beads of perspiration were
on Dermot's brow. Only one point to get
and he was saved — saved from disgrace —
from ruin !

The next deal he held a hand which he
thought would almost have justified him in
playing without proposing. Alas! Lord
Exminster held three trumps and a king,
and thus easily scored the trick. Four all !

Men standing by, to whom the result was

nothing, drew their breath hard as they
looked on. The calmest, coolest man there
was Lord Exminster, who sipped his sherry
and water, and observed,

A pretty fight, Mr. Desmond."

The other tried to answer in a similar
tone, but no word would come.

It was his Lordship's deal. Three cards
to Dermot, three to himself; two to Der-root,
two to himself, and then the trump
card.

"King," said he, calmly turning up the
king of diamonds.

'look at Desmond's face!" whispered
one of the lookers-on.

And Lord Exminster heard the whisper,
and regarded his defeated enemy.

By Gad ! I hope he'll pay," muttered
he, as he finished the sherry and water.

CHAPTER IV.

"Stow is your toothache, dear?" asked
-*— *- Miles Smyth of his wife, as she
appeared at breakfast just before he started
for the City.

Oh ! I scarcely feel it at all now, and
that heavenly laudanum gave me some
sleep last night."

"Take care you don't overdo that; I hate
those narcotics," said Mr. Smyth, taking up
the Times. " By the way, Nora, I never
listen to tittle-tattle if I can help it, as you
know; but I have heard rumours of that
cousin of yours lately which are worse than
ever. I am told he has lost large sums of
money, and you know as well as I do that
he cannot pay them."

Nora had heard and had mourned over
these rumours too.

^*If," she began, timidly — ''if he has lost
more than he can pay, and I believe debts
of honour must be paid "

'* Debts of honour !" snorted her husband,
over his Times,

'* If he has, Miles dear, and if it would
be ruin and disgrace to him not to pay
would you "

Miles threw down the newspaper, and,
going up to his wife's chair, laid his hand on
her arm. "Listen to me once for all,
Nora," he said, in that calm, firm tone she
knew so well. "I detest gambling, and I
am not very fond of your cousin. I look
upon a man who tries to win his friend's
money, when he could not pay what he
risks to do so, as a common swindler, who
should go to the treadmill. I have given —
I believe he calls it lending— given Desmond
a large sum of money already ; he
promised me on his honour — on his honour!

to play no more, and I have reason to
know that the very sum to obtain which he
made that promise was risked over cards
that night. Nothing — mind you, Nora —
nothing shall induce me to do more for him.
If people choose to stake their good money
against his empty pockets without inquiry
they deserve to lose. I am not bound to
help them. If Desmond is at any time
absolutely in want "

In want !"

I will give him enough to take him
back to Kilclare, where he should have
stayed."

'you don't quite understand Dermot,
Miles."

I daresay not. I don't want to. I am
not, perhaps, a gentleman, as they understand
the word in his set, but I know what
a gentleman should be. At any rate, you
have married me, Nora, and know that in
some things I must be obeyed. Never let

rae hear a word of Desmond's gambling
transactions again."

He kissed her forehead, and went to the
City, leaving his wife uncertain whether to
be angry or to burst into tears. There
being no one to be angry with — as she was
not one of those who vent their spleen upon
the nearest person with splendid impartiality
she chose the latter way of relieving her
feelings ; and when, an hour afterwards,
Dermot called, he found her with red eyes.

"Been crying?" he said, throwing himself
into an arm-chair. " By Jove ! I wish
I could cry. Women have a grand pull
over us there."

"Why should you wish to cry?" she
asked, anxiously.

'why? Shall I tell you, Nora? I'm
simply done for. Utterly broken, and
worse."

"Worse?"

"Yes, disgraced; but there is one way
out of it."

What do you mean ?" she asked, alarmed
by his tone and manner.

"Simply this. I have lost an enormous
sum — nearly twenty thousand pounds — and
have till next Saturday to pay. If it was
till doomsday the chance would be as good.
But, thank God, there is always one way
for a brave man to escape disgrace !''

"You don't mean "

I mean that death is far easier. I mean
that I will never — I swear I will never live
to be pointed at as a defaulter, as a swindler.
If the Desmond are to come to an end
now, it is better that the last one should
show that he has — if no money — still a
little courage left."

You are raving, Dermot. Surely something
can be done !"

"That is so like a woman — something be
done! I have to get £20,000 before
Saturday. That is what is to be done!
Does it look easy ?"

£20,000 !" repeated Nora. " Oh ! Der-mot,
how could you play so high ?"

It's done now, so that question is of
no use. Everyone is talking about it ; and
I believe they are betting, d — n them !
as to whether I can pay or not."

Oh, Dermot !" again cried Nora, and
was silent.

What do you think of doing ? Would

not Who is it to ?" she asked, after a

pause.

'' Exminster."

Would he not wait ?"

*' He has vowed that he will have me
turned out of every club I belong to, and
cut by everyone in London, if I don't pay
by twelve o'clock on Saturday night. The
idea that I can't has driven him wild with
rage."

"And if you don't pay?" asked she.

"I shall take a dose that will save them
the trouble of removing me from my clubs."

Dermot, it is wicked, foolish, to talk
like that !"

"Is it? But I swear by my Maker that
I will do it," he said, grimly.

There was another pause, and then the
man spoke.

Your husband — do you think "

She shook her head sadly.

I know that is useless, Dermot dear."

"The stingy " began Dermot.

Don't abuse him," she said, coming to
his side, and putting her hand on his shoulder.
" He is very good to me."

Good to you, Nora ! Oh ! Nora," and
he seized both her hands, and looked up
imploringly in her face, " save me ! Save
my honour ! Save my life !"

You know I would, but how ?"

There is only one way — one only that
I can see. But, no, you would not consent.
I must die. And it is hard to die so
young !"

"Tell me what it is. If it is possible "

"You would think it impossible."

"Try me; tell me."

"You often, you tell me, fill up your
husband's cheques, and he signs them. You
always were clever at imitating handwriting.
Do you remember that letter we sent
O'Halloran, which was supposed to be from
old Miss Grady, demanding his hand ;
and how he was taken in ? Miles's writing
is not so difficult to copy as Miss Grady 's,
and it is only two words. Then when he
finds it out what can he do ? He cannot
prosecute his own wife. Do you understand,
Nora? His bankers would honour
his cheque for £20,000 without question,
or, at any rate, I could get nearly that
amount on the cheque — enough to save
me. Nora, I know it is wrong — I know
what you think ; but it is my only chance.
It is for my honour, my life, I plead. You
used to love me ; prove some of that love
remains. Save me, Nora, save me !"

Not a word did she utter, not a move-vol.

III. I

ment did she make, during this speech. It
seemed to stun her, and it was as if she
were asleep that she said, at its close —

Forgery !"

"No, not forgery in a wife. He is so
rich, what is £20,000 to him ? To me it is
life. Do this and I shall live — live a better,
a different life in my own country, away
from this town and its temptations. Refuse,
and I swear to you that before the sneering
fellows at the club know that Dermot Desmond
is a blackguard he will be a corpse !"

Still Nora neither spoke nor moved. She
seemed to be thinking.

Oh, Nora," he went on, " you are cruel !
You would not abate one scruple to save
the life of your old playfellow. When I
am dead, you will be sorry, perhaps, that
you have sacrificed me — that you have
murdered me — to save £20,000."

She spoke at last, in hard, measured
accents, singularly unlike her own —

I will do it, Dermot."

My angel ! I knew you would save
rae ! Oh, Nora !" He tried to seize her,
but she rose, and waved him off with an
imperious gesture.

^' Go now. To-morrow is Friday. Come
at two o'clock, and you shall have it."

Something in her manner awed him, and
he went without a word, and was soon cantering
down Rotten Row with so happy an
expression on his face that those who had
laid odds against his paying up felt uncomfortable.


For a long time after he had gone Nora
sat alone and pondered, the same dazed
look upon her face ; and when her husband
came home, she pleaded her toothache, and
went to bed, sending her maid out for so
much laudanum that Miles very nearly
risked awakening her to remonstrate.

The next day was Friday, and on that
morning Miles went to stay till next night
with a City friend who was laid up with

i2

gout at his place in Kent, and with whom
he had important business.

*' Good-bye, dear," he said to his wife,
the brougham being at the door. " Take
care of yourself, little woman, and get rid
of that toothache. Go to the dentist, and
take no more laudanum at night."

She put both her arms round his neck.

Give me another kiss. Miles dear — another.
I've been a good wife to you.
Miles ?"

"Why, what's the child at? You've been
upset by this pain, my love."

But say I have been a good wife.
Miles !"

** Of course you have. There, darling,
let me go, or I shall miss the train. Drive
quick, John ; only fifteen minutes to do it.
Poor little thing, she's quite hysterical !
All those infernal drugs !"

And so he went to Kent, and Nora to
the drawing-room.

When Dermot called — punctual for once

he was informed that Mrs. Smyth was
invisible, in consequence of her toothache ;
but he was handed a letter, with which he
seemed quite content.

* * * ^ *

Saturday night. Two scenes.

Scene i. — The Exminster Club. A quarter
to twelve o'clock. A throng of members,
not playing as usual, but engaged in
animated converse, and all perpetually
looking at the clock. At ten minutes to
twelve Lord Exminster arrives, cool and
vicious.

"Ten to one against his coming to time !"
says a youth, with a big cigar in his mouth.

There is no response.

'twenty to one !"

''No good, Harry. I wouldn't take any
odds now. Wh}^, there are only six minutes
more."

The six minutes pass. The first chime of
midnight is heard, when the door opens,
and Dermot Desmond walks in. There is

dead silence as he goes straight across the
room to where Lord Exminster is standing
surrounded by admirers.

Lord Axminster' he says, looking very
handsome in his virtuous indignation, *' I
beg to pay you my debt — seventeen thousand
four hundred pounds. Have the
goodness to count the notes, and, if they
are correct, to take my name off your club.
I do not know what may be the general
custom in London, but in my country we
do not make bets upon the likelihood of
our friends being swindlers. Good evening,
gentlemen."

Verily it is a king who stalks haughtily
through the abashed dandies, and leaves
them to be ashamed of themselves.

Scene ii. — A fine house in South Kensington.
A brougham rattles up to the
door, and Mr. Miles Smyth, of Bishopsgate
Street, merchant, springs out, and, using his
latch-key, enters. What does all this confusion,

this running wildly about of servants,
mean ? And what is Dr. Jameson doinoj
there at this hour ?

Mrs. Smyth's toothache " begins

Miles.

My poor friend," interrupts the doctor
taking one of Miles's hands in his — " my
poor friend, Mrs. Smyth "

Is ill — dangerously ill ?" asks Miles,
breathlessly.

In the doctor's face he reads the truth,
and in another moment he stands beside a
form which bears still the outward semblance
of human beauty, but is only a heap
of clay.

There is a note for him to read when his
first burst of grief is over, one part only of
which we need transcribe : —

"You said I had been a good wife to
you, Miles — you said so before you went —
and it was the sacred truth. But he was
the friend of my childhood. I could not
help loving him. Try to think of me as a

good wife in after-years, and not as a woman
who betrayed your trust and forged
your name. That act is all I have ever
done that was wrong to you, Miles. Forgive
me, forgive me, and kiss me when I
am dead. I cannot face your kind eyes
again."

The letter is burned, and the coroner
asks no disagreeable questions. An overdose
of laudanum, taken by mistake to
soothe the pain of toothache. And so ends
the short life of the poor '' Pride of Kil-clare."


Everyone of course knows Mr. Dermot
Desmond, M.P., who was so lucky last year
as to secure the hand — and fortune — of the
wealthy Miss Higgins, of Biggin town House,

in S shire. His dinners are feasts for

the gods.

THE MYSTERY OF ELLABY CASTLE.

CHAPTER 1.

THERE was nothing very extraordinary
in his proposing to her. When we
were all children together, young Frank
Ellaby was always her favourite ; and as
there is only eight miles between our modest
house and Ellaby Castle, our visits there
were pretty frequent. The young Lord,
who died just after coming of age, we never
cared so much for. He was always moody
and odd, his temper uncertain, his glance
mistrustful. There was an air of mystery
about him from which we children naturally

shrank, although in appearance he was
singularly like his younger brother.

In those days Lady Halberton was alive,
having been just left a widow, under very
sad circumstances, for her husband died
very suddenly, some said by his own
hand. Old Colonel Ellaby — belonging to a
generation further back — came to the Castle
when the widow settled there with her two
sons, and managed everything for her. I
recollect him, a stern, proud-looking man,
very erect and solemn, with a grand
courteous manner that was intensely alarming.
Frank — the second son — was as bright
and cheery a youth as you could fid in a
long day's march, and we were all desperately
fond of him, and were much
grieved when, immediately after the young
Lord's death (on board a sailing vessel on
his voyage to Australia, we were told),
Ellaby Castle was shut up, and we saw
Frank — now Lord Halberton — no more.

Kate — then seventeen, and so pretty that

even I, her brother, appreciated her beauty
felt this separation a good deal, and all
the more when Frank's letters suddenly
ceased, after a final cold one, over which she
made her pretty eyes red many times.

Still, the foundation of childish fondness
having thus been laid, there was nothing
very extraordinary in his proposing to her
three years afterwards, when they had met
perpetually in the London season. What
was extraordinary, at least to me who had
so often received Frank's confidences as to
his determination to wed none but Kate, was
the time he took to come to the point,
and, when he had learned from her lips
that she had never forgotten her girlish love,
the strange hesitation he evinced in the
matter of naming a time for making himself
and her happy. There was no obstacle in
their way. Our family, although untitled,
was in no way inferior to his. Her fortune
was as much as could reasonably be expected,
and he was a rich man, with but few of

those claims upon him which often make a
man with a long rent-roll far from being a
man with a heavy balance at his bankers.

He had no country-place but Ellaby
Castle ; and the house in Grosvenor Square
was furnished and ready for them. Yet he
hesitated ; a whole winter elapsed ; the next
season was half through, and still no mention
of the day passed his lips. I thought ray
father ought to speak to him, for poor little
Kate was growing silent and anxious, and
congratulations were beginning to be given
in a somewhat ironical tone. But my father
was obdurate on this point. 'let them
settle it between them," he said. '' When
two young people can decide so important
a matter as the whole of their future lives,
it certainly must be possible for them to
fix upon the mere detail of a date."

Frank and I were walking home from a
ball one night, enjoying that cigar which
tastes so delicious after hours of hot rooms,
when he suddenly said to me —

^' Charlie, is Kate at all nervous ?"

*' How do you mean ?"

Afraid of — ghosts and things."

Well, I don't know. Not more than
most women, I suppose. Are you thinking
of the Ellaby ghost ?"

Yes ; you see I am bound by will, as
well as by the wishes of my mother and my
uncle, to go and live there. And that ghost
is real, you know."

''A ghost cannot be real," I replied,
valiantly, relying upon my common sense.
He sighed, then suddenly stopped and faced
me. ''I tell you it is real, this one. It is
our curse, and whoever marries me will
have to bear it. Do you think your sister
is brave enough ?"

'^ Oh ! she's not superstitious," I said,
moving on; "and I didn't think that you
were, either."

He looked very serious as he laid his
hand on my arm.

Charlie, you can't laugh this away.

There is a sad secret attached to us, which
I can't tell anyone. I wish to God I did
not know it myself; but I am not superstitious
when I tell you that anyone who
marries me will have to be brave — and to
be silent."

^' What, will Kate know the secret when
you are married ?" I asked, overcoming with
difficulty my disposition to laugh at his
long face. " If so, I shall know it too, for
Kate never could keep anything from me
long."

"I hope she may never know it — I trust
not," he said, as pale as a ghost himself.
But I tremble when I think of the chances.
Do you think she — she is fond of me,
Charlie ?"

'* Fond of you ?" 1 echoed, puzzled. " Of
course she is. Why, she has never thought
of anyone else since she was in short petticoats."


"I have behaved ill to her, perhaps I
ought to have kept away, never exposed

her to this; but I coiddnH do it." This
was half to himself, and I said nothing,
for I began to think Frank had been
drinking too much of the doubtful ball
champagne.

^' Will you tell Kate I shall call before
lunch tomorrow to have a talk to
her. She won't mind missing her ride for
once."

I think she can manage to exist without
it," I replied, and we parted.

Next day there was a long conference
between the interesting couple, and Kate
came to lunch looking rather excited and
red-eyed.

*well, have you fixed the day yet?" I
asked, catching her on her way to her
room, and detaining her by main force.

"Let me go, Charlie," she cried, struggling
; " you shouldn't be so curious. Let
me go."

"But tell me, dear, have you?"

"Perhaps," was the enigmatical reply,

VOL. III. K

and with that I was forced to be content.
She never could keep anything from me
long, however, and soon I learnt that
Frank had talked to her much in the same
way as he had to me the night before ; told
her that she would have much to bear as
his wife ; and whatever happened at Ellaby
they would still have to live there a great
part of the year, and bear it; that there
was a horrible secret, which he hoped she
might never discover, but that, if she did
discover it, she would have to swear never
to reveal it ; and then he had asked her to
take a week to think it all over, and finally
to decide whether she would venture to
marry him, knowing this.

Kate was a nervous little thing, and I
think she was rather appalled at the
prospect; but of course at the end of the
week her mind was made up, and the
marriage day was finally fixed.

It was a very cheery wedding at St.
George's, Hanover Square. Breakfast atour

house in Eaton Place — plenty of favours
and old shoes, and cake, and champagne,
and cheering, and a speech from a Bishop —
all quite as it should be. I thought Frank
looked rather pale and solemn ; but no
doubt that was correct. And as to Kate,
with '^ a smile on her lip and a tear in her
eye " as she bade us good-bye and jumped
into the carriage amid a shower of old
shoes, she was perfectly delicious. I knocked
Frank's servant's hat off with my shoe,
which amused the maids looking out of the
upstairs windows amazingly.

Of course, as there is nothing so trying to
the temper and altogether uncomfortable as
travelling with a heap of luggage and servants,
and smart new clothes, which label
you unmistakably "newly married," they
went to the Continent. Perhaps the cause
of this mysterious custom is that it is considered
best that the two young people
should begin by seeing the worst side of
each other's characters at once. I do not

k2

know ; I merely throw it out as a suggestion.
For I have never been married, and I do
not intend to be.

There were great rejoicing at EUaby
when they came back, a month afterwards ;
but my military duties in London tied me
by the leg, and I had to content myself with
reading a full account of it in the county
paper while surveying Pall Mall from the
windows of the Guards' Club, clad in Her
Majesty's livery of scarlet.

Kate wrote to me from time to time. At
first her writing was full of the delights of
the place ; the big woods, the lake, the
garden, the horses and dogs, and the grim,
quaint old castle, with its portcullis and
banqueting-hall, and dungeons, and the
rest of it. But gradually this tone died out
of her letters, which, to tell the truth, became
dull and almost cold. She rarely said
a word now about Frank and her happiness
With him, or about the place she had at first
taken so great an interest in. Her chief

delight seemed to consist in riding out to
see her father ; and when he left for the
south of France, ordered there by the doctor,
she scarcely filled two sheets of the
weekly letter she had agreed to write.
What with duty, and a little racing, and a
couple of horses I kept at Leighton Buzzard,
I had a good deal to do, and did not attach
the importance to this that I might have
done ; for the friendship and confidence
between my little sister and myself were
stronger than is usual between relations.
At last — I remember it was on my return
from a capital day with Mr. Lowness — I
got this short note from her : —

Darling Charlie,

I can bear it no longer. Oh,

it is so horrible ! and he will not come away,

but says it must be borne. Do get leave

and come here and see me — I want you so

badly.

"• Your affectionate sister,

*' Kate."

'important family business?" said the
Colonel, when I visited him next morning
in the orderly room. " Well, I suppose
you must go, though if you transact family
business in the same way that you command
your company I scarcely think you will be
of much use."

The Colonel was sarcastic, but he was a
good fellow all the same, if you took him
in the right way. Most people are goodby
the by, if you take them in the right
way. I know I am. My journey down to
shire was unpleasant, as the smoking-carriages
were full, and an old boy who
travelled with me — I think he was a dean,
judging from his legs — objected to tobacco,
and even objected when I told him what I
paid for my cigars. He seemed to think
that all tobacco is the same, on the same
principle as, I daresay, he thought all people
who did not agree with his theological
opinions were bad people. He read the
Contemporary Review and grunted for at

least two hundred miles, but at last fell into
a sweet sleep, during which I managed to
smoke at least half a cigar, and felt happier.


Kate was much changed even in the few
months that had elapsed since I saw her.
Her cheeks were pale, and there were black
marks under her eyes. Frank was in the
drawing-room when I came in, so of course
no confidences passed between her and me
that night ; but Frank, while we smoked
before going to bed, told me that he was
very anxious about her.

'' Is it the ghost ?" I asked.

He started and looked uneasily at me.

"Who told you about the ghost?"

Why, you did, long ago. Haven't you
managed to lay it yet ?"

"Don't joke about it here," said he,
glancing over his shoulder, and making
even me feel nervous, so alarmed did he
look.

Tell me, has she written to you ? did

she ask you to come here for any particular
reason?"

*' Well, she seemed by her letter to be
rather uncomfortable about something, and
she didn't think you sympathized with her.
You see, women all like sympathy," I added,
with the wisdom of two-and-twenty.

Poor child !" he said, half to himself.
'' Poor child ! But I warned her. Look
here, Charlie, you are in her full confidence,
and I know she trusts you more than she
does me. Now, can you not try to persuade
her tomorrow to be brave, and to bear ita
little longer without asking questions, and
without mistrusting me ? It may not be for
long."

*' Oh, it's not a perpetual ghost, then.
I'm glad I've come before it's faded
away."

'' You are the first stranger that has
stayed in this house since — since my brother's
death, and "

I interrupted, " That accounts pretty well

for Kate's not being happy. Women can't
do without society, you know."

"^ Yes, it seems cruel of me ; but what can
I do ? Oh, Charlie, if you only knew what
I have to bear ! But we won't sit up any
later; it's trying to the nerves. Good night.
You know your room. Don't be frightened
if you hear noises in the night. The wind
plays all sorts of pranks in this old house ;
and the ghost won't come your way."
^*^^' He tried to smile as he said this, and ashe
lit our candles I noticed that even the
strong glass of brandy and water he had
just swallowed had failed to steady his
hand.

Sitting up trying to the nerves — noises
in the night !" I went to my room pondering
over these things, and wondering what
had changed my laughing little sister so
quickly, and converted strong-minded Frank
Halberton into a nervous, superstitious donkey.
That a grown-up man should be
frightened by a ghost seemed to me incredible

; for even Dr. Johnson's belief in them
was not enough to shake ni}^ incredulity.
My room was at the end of a long corridor
which, at its other end, communicated,
through two baize doors, with the principal
gallery of the house ; which gallery ran all
the way round a square courtyard in the
middle of the Castle. This gallery was
lighted by mullions windows looking into
the courtyard ; but you could not see out of
them, as their lower part was filled with
dark-stained glass. I remembered, in the
odd way children remember unimportant
incidents, that once, when we were going
over the Castle in old days, my father had
remarked that this stained glass darkened
the gallery too much and should be removed,
and 1 remembered the extraordinary
sternness with which old Colonel Ellabv had
replied that they liked everything there just
as it was, and that the stained glass should
never be removed.

In the midst of my reminiscences and

wanderings I fell asleep, and it would have
taken more noise than any wind could make
to rouse me, until I found my servant gently
shaking my arm, assuring me, with the same
useful mendacity he employed as to parade
being " fallen in, sir," that breakfast was
already commenced.

He was a loquacious gentleman, and informed
me, when, after ablution, I rang for
him to assist in my toilette, that things were
very *' odd and queer " at the Castle ; that,
except two old servants and a strange man,
Who called himself groom of the chambers,
but who apparently did nothing but sleep,
no domestic would stay there over their
month. He said the night was made constantly
hideous by horrible shrieks and cries
of a most ghostly nature; and that, besides
this, there existed a most obnoxious rule
that every servant's door must be locked on
the outside at night.

"Most dangerous in case of fire," as my
man observed.

'' Yours was so too, sir," he said, when I
had expressed ray concurrence with his
views on this matter.

Mine ! What do you mean ?"

"The key outside was turned in the lock
when I came to call you this morning."

Hang it ! That's rather strong. I must
stop that at once."

It's the rule here, sir. I am told that
her Ladyship is locked in too."

Nonsense, Simmons ! Don't believe
what you hear," I exclaimed, angrily ; and
I proceeded to the dining-room more
puzzled than ever.

Look here, Frank," 1 said at once, after
providing myself with a substantial helping
of kidneys sautes ; " this won't do. I'm not
going to be locked into my room at night
like a prisoner."

Kate looked up with terror in her eyes —
first at me and then at her husband, who
answered, solemnly —

*' I ought to have told you, Charlie, but I

forgot to. I am sorry, but it is the absolute
rule here, which I can break for no one.
You need not be afraid of any danger.
There are persons always ready to unlock
the doors if necessary, but locked they must
be."

'' Oh, come, you know " I began,

rather angrily, when Kate interrupted me.

"You won't mind for a few days, Charlie
to please me."

Oh, if you put it in that way !" I replied,
still bubbling over with annoyance ; " but
it's a most extraordinary thing."

"It is," said Frank; 'sit is; but I can't
help it. I am afraid it is not the only extraordinary
thing here."

"They are all locked," whispered Kate,
putting her hand on mine ; " even mine
is."

"And his?" I asked, nodding towards
Frank, who was helping himself at the side
table.

"I don't knows think not. He is

scarcely ever in bed at night — always roaming
about the house."

"Enough to make any man nervous," I
thought to myself, as I proceeded with my
breakfast. " It certainly is not very cheery
at Ellaby Castle. Frank is reserved, silent,
evidently unhappy, while Kate is a different
being from what I knew her. Her constant
glances at her husband bespeak something
akin to terror. The shadow of this wretched
secret, or ghost, or whatever it is, seems to
have blighted their lives."

Have you seen it ?" 1 asked her, when
at last we were alone in her little boudoir,
the only comfortable, home-like room in the
whole of the grim old house.

The ghost ? No. But the noises at
night ! Oh, Charlie ! you don't know how
horrible they are. Yells and curses, and
struggling ; and then there are always
people moving stealthily about and doors
being cautiously opened — and Frank is so
odd. Every night, he goes away after everyone

has gone to bed, and comes back in an
hour or two, looking so pale and strange,
and he gets more and more low and unhappy.
It's horrible that there should be a
secret between us — and such a one. Do
you think — is it possible ? — that all these
horrors have a little unsettled him ?"

I never knew a saner fellow than Frank
till now," I answered. " But what can he
want to do with the ghost ? and why should
we all be locked in ?"

I've asked him a hundred times, but he
will tell me nothing, but says that, if I
knew all, I should be miserable — as if I
could be more so than I am."

Can't you leave EUaby for a time?"

'^ No. He says he is bound by a solemn
vow to stay here. There are nothing but
solemn vows and mysteries here, I think —
it drives me mad !"

And she rested her head on my shoulder
and cried hysterically. Although it was
sad to see the poor child so unhappy, and

pitiable that Frank could make such a fool
of himself, there was, at the same time,
something rather interesting and amusing
about the whole affair. Perhaps I was to
be the person to discover, and, by discovering,
to banish this mystery — to lay for ever
this very inconvenient ghost.

I had often heard of ghosts that would
enter your chamber and haunt you, no
matter how thick the door or how firm the
lock ; but here was a ghost that was so
averse to being seen that human beings had
to be locked out of sight. I determined to
guess the riddle, and of course my first
thought was to secure the key of my door.
But this was of no avail. The mysterious
gaoler had duplicate keys, and, as he left
the one he used in the lock, I could not get
mine in on the inside. I fell asleep soon
after this defeat, and again filled to hear
anything of the noises. In the morning I
secured the second key, but during the day
(while I was out shooting with Frank, and

had fair sport, Frank astonishing me by
shooting very ill), a bolt was screwed into
the outside of the door, and again, for the
third time, I was prisoner for the night.

The fourth night I sat up, and, when I
heard footsteps approaching, I went out into
the passage and confronted my host.

You do not like our rules, Charlie," he
said, quite calmly. " But you need not stay
here. Take lYiy advice, and leave this
plague stricken house."

"And leave my sister to " I began.

She chose it deliberately," he replied,
and there was a tone of authority in his
voice I had seldom heard before. " All was
put before her, even this looking of the
doors. I am wretched to see she is unhappy,
but I have a duty to perform, and
nothing can stand in its way."

'^I know one thing," I said, standing so
that he could not close my door, 'rand that
is that I will not be locked in."

Charlie," said he, gently, laying his

VOL. III. L

hand on my arm, " you have chosen to come
to my house — you yourself have voluntarily,
for the time, put yourself under the rules of
that house. I must ask you to obey them.
You are free to go where you will, but
while you are here I must demand as a
right — nay, Charlie, I will ask it only as a
great favour to me — that you will let me
carry out this rule."

'ris this — this Thing — so horrible, then?"
I asked, curiosity getting the better of indignation,
"that no one can be allowed to see
it?"

It is indeed."

"And yet you can roam about the house
and meet it?"

I said I had a duty to do. Do you
think I would not rather be in bed ? Do
you think it is a pleasure to me to "

He stopped, and appeared to listen intently.
In the distance I thought I heard
the clank of a chain, and there was the
distinct sound of the closing of a door.

Go in, Charlie ; go in," he whispered,
and I could see, by the light of the flat
candle he carried, the beads of perspiration
on his brow. '' For God's sake go
in!"

His tone of entreaty was so piteous that
I moved a step backwards to obey him. As
I did so there arose, echoing through the
corridors and halls of the old Castle, a
shriek more horrible than can be described,
scarcely human, whether of agony or rage
you could not tell — a shriek that reminded
me more than anything of the cry of a man
stricken by epilepsy. It was followed by
the same rattling of chains I had heard
before. Then all was silence.

Go in," whispered Frank, again. Then,
seizing his opportunity, he gave me a push
that sent me well into the room, and, banging
the door, had bolted it before I had
time to put my foot against it. I heard him
walking swiftly down the passage, heard
the baize door at the end swing open and

L 2

close again, there were more shrieks in the
distance, and then — silence.

I felt no fear, only anger with my
brother-in-law for playing me this trick ;
and I determined to get out if I could.

It was a bright, moonlight night, and,
craning my head out of the window, I saw
that, about four feet below, there was a
narrow stone ledge which ran all along that
side of the house.

The room next to mine was empty; consequently
there was little chance of the
door of it being locked. It seemed possible
to climb out upon the ledge, and, if the
window of that room could be opened, I
might get in by it and be free. The difficulty
was to keep my balance on the narrow
ledge, as there was nothing for a space of
about five feet to lay hold of. Taking off
my boots, so that I might be less liable to
slip, I got cautiously out, and, pressing my
face and breast against the cold stone, I
made three side steps, and, just as I felt

myself falling backwards, contrived to grasp
the iron bar of the window of the empty
room. It was not bolted, and in another
moment I stood inside. As I thought, the
door was open, and I stepped out into the
dark corridor none the worse save for a
torn trouser-knee and with my heart beating
rather quicker than its wont.

CHAPTER II.

Whatever the intentions of the
' writer may be, litera scripta manet,
I know, so I must just mention, once for
all, that this story was put on paper for the
sake only of myself and a few of my intimate
friends, and was not intended for the
public gaze and criticism. There is no
attempt at fine writing in it; it simply puts
down what actually happened to me during

my eventful visit to Ellaby.

******

I have said that, when I began my dark

walk up that long corridor, my heart was

thumping rather loudly against my ribs, and

I am not ashamed to own it. That shriek

would have discomposed the strongest nerve.
I think, however, that a determination to
see this affair through, to get at the bottom
of the 'mystery" which was wearing my
sister's life away, was the strongest feeling
in my mind. All was still as I walked
along, and there seemed even something
uncanny in my own noiseless footfall, for I
was without boots. I coughed to re-assure
myself; but the way in which that unlucky
cough echoed along the vaulted roof was
certainly not re-assuring.

The baize doors I opened and shut with
immense care, and contrived to slip through
without making the slightest sound. Now 1
was in the principal gallery, lit, as I have
said, from the courtyard, and running quite
round it, supported on pillars, which formed
a sort of cloisters beneath. The moon shone
in, and made the faces of some of the Ellaby
ancestors look very ghostly and forbidding.
I looked steadily at one, to assure myself
that his eyes did not follow me ; and then I

imagined I saw his lips move. '^ This will
never do," I said, angrily, to myself.
*' What are you thinking of, Charlie, my
boy? — afraid. of your own shadow!" I do
not think I had ever known what it was to
be nervous until that moment ; but then
the scream I had heard ! I could not forget
that!

What a length that side of the gallery
seemed ! Not that there was any object in
turning the corner, but I had a vague notion
that I should be happier where the moon
did not shine, and where the shadows of
such common-place things as chairs and
tables did not assume such fantastic shapes.
There was a door leading to the north gallery
a large folding-door, some nine feet high,
with an immense brass handle about level
with your chin. I slipped through as
noiselessly as possible, and as I carefully
closed the door, close to me, in the courtyard
under the window, arose another of those
unearthly yells, followed by guttural muttering

and a noise as of some one dancing
upon the stone pavement. Then came a
laugh — a demoniacal laugh which froze my
blood — and then all was silent.

I tried in vain to look through the stained
glass of the window, and then, remembering
that it only reached a few feet up,
I mounted on a chair and looked
out.

The moon was behind one of the clouds
flying across the sky, for it was blowing
half a gale, and I could make out nothing
but a dark object in one corner of the
courtyard, which I fancied moved slightly
as I watched it. In a few moments, which
seemed like hours, and during which my
heart beat so loudly that I feared it would
raise an echo, the cloud passed away, and I
could see clearly.

The dark object was a man, clad in a
long cloak, kneeling down and trying
apparently to tear up one of the flags which
formed the pavement. On the opposite

side of the court, half-hidden by the shadow
of the pillar, stood three other men,
who seemed to be watching the crouching
figure.

Suddenly it raised itself, and, flinging up
its arms, gave vent to one of those screams
I had heard before and, flinging its arms
high in air, commenced a sort of dance.
The three figures in the shadow never
moved, and for I suppose some three
minutes this weird dance continued, to
which the shrieks and horrible laughter
formed a dreadful accompaniment. I do
not know whether fear was what I felt ;
but I do know that a cold perspiration
bathed my face, and that my legs trembled
under me, as I watched.

The dance suddenly ceased, and, with a
wild cry, the figure sprang at the nearest of
the men watching it. There was a confused
struggle, in which the other two men took
part, and I thought I could see, in the
moonlight, the glitter of the chains whose

rattle I plainly heard ; and then round and
round the courtyard went a strange procession
— two of the watchers holding the figure
that had been dancing, and the third slowly
marching behind them. Found and round
the yard till I grew dizzy from watching
them ; while ever and again came a shriek
from the man in the cloak which made my
blood run cold.

I suppose that I must have stood there
nearly an hour watching them before they
disappeared under the pillars, on the south
side of the house, and the courtyard no
longer echoed with the dreadful cries. Still
I heard them in the distance, growing
gradually fainter, and eventually ceasing
altogether, after I had distinctly heard the
banging of a door. I waited some ten
minutes longer, but they did not return,
and I got off the chair more puzzled than
ever. As I turned to retrace my steps to
ray own room I heard the door at the end
of the gallery open, and I saw a light

appear. Crouching into the recess of the
window, I waited, and soon the butler, with
a candle in one hand and in the other a
plate containing meat and bread, came
slowly past me. As he passed I saw the
neck of a bottle protruding from his
pocket.

Everything connected itself so much in
my mind now with what I had seen that
no thoughts of peculation or amorous irregularities
crossed it, and I determined to
follow him. But when I reached the small
door through which he left the gallery I
found it locked on the inside. So nothing
remained but to return to bed, which, after
performing the same gymnastic feat as
before to reach my window, I proceeded todo
; and, after some hours of thought,
during which the sweet light of morning
came in and sent all ghostly fears to the
deuce, I went to sleep, as far as ever from
solving the mystery of Ellaby Castle. The

next day I employed myself in making a
neat arrangement of ropes, by which I could
with less risk to my neck climb from my
window to that of the room next door.
Frank seemed much relieved at my making
no more objection to be locked in at night;
and Kate was delighted when I told her that
I intended to stay on with them to the end
of the week's leave I had obtained from my
sarcastic colonel. The dinner that night
was as dull as ever— Kate silent, watching
her husband with the same odd look 1 had
before observed — Frank restless, pre-occupied,
and now and then putting on a false
air of mirth that was worse than his natural
gloom.

At last Kate lit her candle, and we
adjourned for a silent smoke. Again my
host drank brandy eagerly, and in a manner
totally at variance with his usual sober
habits ; again I heard the lock turned in my
door an hour or so after I had retired ; and

soon again I stood in the empty room
next to mine, the rope contrivance answering
admirably.

It was a few minutes after twelve, and I

hurried down the long gallery, hoping to

reach the staircase, and gain the courtyard

before the arrival of the strange beings I

lead seen the night before, for something

told me that the same thing happened each

night. The door into the yard was locked

but to get through a low window beside it

was an easy matter. Creeping cautiously

round the cloisters, I crouched down in a

recess behind a statue, close to the corner

whence they had emerged, and waited.

Soon I heard the shrieks in the distance,

the clanking of chains, and the opening and

shutting of heavy doors. Then the one

close to my hiding-place opened, and, with

a wild yell that made me shiver, the figure

in the long cloak dashed past me, and again

commenced its fruitless efforts to tear up

the paving flag. As before, it was attended

by three other men, who stood silently
watching its antics, one of them so close tome
that I could have touched him. The
strange creature kneeling in the centre of
the courtyard gave vent at intervals to most
fiendish chuckling and laughter, though
after awhile, as if infuriated by the failure
to move the stone, it raised itself and
emitted one of those unearthly yells, and I
could hear the gnashing of its teeth.

Then began that species of dance, the
arms high above the head, the fingers cracking,
the cloak waving in the wind, while the
shrieks were incessant. As in its round of
the courtyard it passed the man who stood
close to me, with a sudden leap it was upon
him, and I saw one of its hands clutch him
by the throat. In a second the other two
had seized it and torn it off him ; and then
commenced the strange promenade round
and round the yard, and I could see that
the wrists of him in the long cloak were
imprisoned by handcuffs.

It was again a wild, stormy night, and
the moon only gave fitful gleams of light.
In one of these, however, as the four men
turned and faced me at the end of the
court, I could see them plainly for the first
time ; but my eyes were riveted on the
features of one, the awful creature uttering
howls like a furious wild beast ! Good
God ! it was no other than Frank Halb^rton
himself!

CHAPTER III.

T Scarcely know how I got back to
-*- ray room that night. The discovery I
had made was so fearful that it almost deprived
me of the power of thought. My
sister was married to a raging lunatic!
True he seemed sane enough in the day,
except as regarded this " mystery " — save
the mark ! — but at night ! I tried to remember
instances of people going mad only
after sunset, but could think of nothing but
some vague notion of the full moon having
an effect upon madmen. But this shrieking
at night had gone on for months, and the
moon could not have been full all that
time. Of one thing I was determined :

VOL. III. M

Kate must at once leave this dreadful house
and fly to the safety of her own home. Nota
wink did I sleep, but lay torturing myself
with plans until the gong sounded, which
told us it was time for prayers. To think
of the man I had seen last night dancing
wildly in the moonlight, and trying to
murder his keepers, solemnly reading
prayers to his household in the morning !
It was like an impossibly hideous dream.
Kate and I were equally late, and both
entered the dining-room at the same time.
Frank was reading the Times, and carelessly
turned to kiss her cheek. Horrible ! I
half expected to see him clutch her throat,
or to hear his teeth gnash together as they
had not many hours ago. For nearly the
first time in my life I could eat no breakfast.
Frank remarked it, and said, sadly,

"You see, Kate, Charlie already feels the
influence of the place. He looks pale and
worried, and eats nothing."

Oh ! I'm all right, I said, hastily.
Only had a sleepless night." I looked at
him as I spoke, but he did not change
colour.

'sleepless nights are very trying," he
said, taking up the Times again.

Soon afterwards he came into the library,
where I was trying to compose myself
sufficiently to write a letter to my groom
about the horses, and asked me whether I
would like to shoot.

"No, thanks; I don't care about it," I
said, rather to his surprise — and then I went
on, for I like coming to the point at once,
I say, Frank, of course I should hate to do
anything to hurt you, but Kate is not happy
here."

'' I fear not."

She ought not to be made so miserable."

"It may — it must — be soon over," he
muttered, sinking wearily into a chair, and
covering his eyes with his hand.

M 2

Do you mean you do not expect to livelong
?" I asked, for his manner, knowing
what I did, irritated me.

He looked at me surprised.

No — I hope I may live — but yet — what
is it that you are driving at, Charlie ?"

"I think Kate should go away from this
place," I said, standing up.

'you mean from me?" he asked, standing
up too, and looking very pale.

"Yes— if it must be so. This life will
kill her — she is simply fading away now.
If you love her "

"If!"

You should let her go."

"Does she wish it?"

"That is nothing," I answered, angrily.
You know she ought to go."

If she desires to leave me," he said,
slowly, " to leave me alone here, I will not
stand in her way. Here she is — ask her."

Kate came in as he spoke, and stopped
short when she saw our serious faces.

Kate, come here," said Frank, taking her
hand, and looking tenderly into her face,
no madness in his eyes now ; " Charlie
says that you are pining away, that you
ought to leave Ellaby "

Oh ! yes, Frank. Let us "

"Leave Ellaby, and me' he went on,
with sad emphasis.

"Leave you!" Kate said, looking at me.
What do you mean, Charlie ?"

I mean that your living any longer herewith
your husband is out of the question," I
said, sternly, for I detest a scene ; " and
your husband knows it is so."

"Do you, Frank ?" She was holding his
hand in both hers now, and looking at me
with something like defiance in her eyes.

I don't quite know what he means,"
said her husband, calmly. " I only know
that if you cannot bear this life — which
Providence may, in its mercy, change before
long — you are free to go, to leave me to
bear it alone."

Never, Frank !" cried Kate, burying
her head on his shoulder ; " never ! I love
you, and will always stay with you. The
horrors would be less if we could only share
them between us."

My poor darling !" he said, raising her
face to his, and looking into her tearful
eyes ; then, turning to me, " I wish we could.
You see what she says, Charlie."

*' Yes, but she does not know all."

He started.

'all? Do you?"

I saw that I had made a false move. I
must be a little surer of my ground before
I could speak out.

I only know," I answered, " that there
is some wretched secret in this house which
renders her life miserable, which is ruining
her health, which "

Kate interrupted me.

You must not interfere between my
husband and me," she said, rather haughtily.
"No doubt you meant it for the best,

but you had no right to speak like this."

I knew not what to say, so held my
peace.

"We are friends still?" asked Frank,
holding out his hand.

I could not take it, the scene of last night
came so vividly before me, and I turned
away and left the room. As I went I heard
him say softly to my sister, who was in his
arms,

"Be brave, my darling! We shall be
happy some day, when all this is over. Be
brave !"

I think they were both surprised when I
expressed my determination to adhere to
my original plans and finish my week with
them ; for, of course, we were all more uncomfortable
than ever together now. But
I was resolved to visit the courtyard once
more before I made a final effort to rescue
my sister from the danger she was in.

Frank did not come to the smoking-room
to-night, which was a relief to me,

and, after a solitary pipe, I betook myself
to my room, and was soon securely locked
in.

Practice had made me very perfect in the
use of my rope balcony, and, armed with a
leaded stick I found in the hall, I was soon
in the courtyard again. The same scene as
on the other nights commenced at the same
hour, but this time I hid myself so that
when the strange figures entered I was able
to slip through the door whence they
emerged. It led down a narrow passage,
along which I groped my way to a small
winding stone staircase, feebly lit by narrow
slits in the thick wall". Down this I went
cautiously, my heart beating at the thought
of what might come of my temerity ; at the
bottom the light entirely ceased, and I could
only feel that there was a narrow door of
immense thickness, covered with bolts and
bars, and inside this another, both of them
being ajar. I knew that I must be down

in the old dungeons of the castle, about
which our nurses used to tell us horrible
tales as children ; and here — for the darkness
was so intense I dared go no further
forward — I determined to await the return
of those in the courtyard. I heard the
shrieks in the distance, and once or twice I
*' pulled myself together," as I imagined
that they were approaching me.

At last it was no imagination. They
were unquestionably coming closer and
closer. I heard a door shut — the clanking
of chains — the muttering and ravings of
the lunatic ; and then a dark form came
with a rush towards me, and a yell sounded
close in my ears. I shrank back through
both the thick doors, and crouched down
in the darkness in what seemed to be the
corner of a small room. There was a carpet
on the floor, and the wall was covered
with some thick substance ; I heard the
gnashing of teeth close to me, and there

was a confused struggle and a sound like
the snapping of a lock — the lock of the
handcuffs, I suppose.

Then, before I had time to make up my
mind what to do, the ponderous door was
shut with a bang ; I heard the bolts shot
and the keys turned, then the closing of the
outside door — and I was alone. No ! the
silence lasted only for a moment. Then
arose from my side another of those dreadful
shrieks, and a sickly light coming from
a small window high above enabled me,
now that my eyes had grown accustomed
to the gloom, to see a dark figure crouching,
much as I was, close to me.

1 was alone with the madman ! How
long it was that 1 sat there watching what
was as yet little more than a confused heap
of black, I know not ; it seemed ages.
Then, as the morning broke, I realised that,
small as the window was, there would soon
be light enough for him to see me. I am
young and strong, but stories of the strength

of madmen flashed across my memory, and
I had been witness to the difficulty with
which three men subdued this one in his
violent fits. I clutched my stick and prepared
for the worst, mentally anathematizing
the foolish rashness that had led me into
this predicament. A horrible laugh rang
through the room, and I shivered. Then
it spoke —

'' Dead — dead ! She's dead, I tell you,
and can tell no tales. The knife went in
deep enough ; look at her throat — from ear
to ear ! Down with her ! Bury her deep,
under the flags ! Ho ! ho ! we'll walk over
her head ; keep her down — down ! Quick!
Was that a light ? Quick ! put her in, head
foremost ! She can dance on her head
then. Is that a foot sticking out ? Down
with it ! more earth ! Why, it comes up
again ! Oh !"

He ended with a long-drawn scream of
mortal terror, and started up. As he did
so, he caught sight of me, and stood still, as

if petrified, his glaring eyes fixed upon my
face. So we remained for minutes, neither
of us moving ; then suddenly he dropped
upon his hands and knees, and looked like
a dog about to spring upon a foe. His lips
were curled up dog-like, and displayed his
teeth, and his matted hair almost, but not
quite, hid the fearful stare of his wild eyes.
I did not dare to move lest he should spring
upon me, and nearly an hour must have
passed while we thus confronted one another.
The light grew stronger, and I saw
that, although strangely like him, it was
not Frank Halberton. No ! — wonder of
wonders ! — it was the elder, Geoffrey, whom
we had thought dead so long !

At last he turned his eyes from me, and,
to my inexpressible relief, turned over on
his side with a moan, 'and went to sleep. I
looked hastily around : there was no cord
or chain — nothing with which I might contrive
to bind him ere he woke. The room,
or cell, was plainly but comfortably furnished.

A bed in one corner, and on a
table the remains of a meal. Cushions on
the floor formed the only seats, and the
walls were thickly padded with leather.
There was no chance of escape : the cell
was fully fifteen feet high, and the window
was close to the ceiling. No, I must remain
there, face to face with this terrible
creature, until the night came, for I felt
sure that he was only visited once in the
twenty-four hours. Five o'clock ! At least
seventeen hours to pass in this horrible
prison. At last I fell asleep, worn out with
fatigue and excitement, and woke with a
start, to find that I was being watched furtively
by the madman, who was now only
feigning sleep, and that he had crept close
to me while I slept. No pen could ever
describe the horrors of that long day. Each
time I took my eye off him he moved an
inch or two nearer to me, until at length I
could have touched him with my hand. At
last — it had grown almost dark again — he

rose to his full height, and I prepared for a
struggle for life. No ! He turned to the
table, and seizing what remained of a leg
of mutton he tore it with his teeth and
worried it like an animal. The malicious
glitter in his eyes, which he turned on me
from time to time, warned me to be on my
guard. I was standing up now, and held
my stick so that he could see it firmly in
my hand.

Fancying I heard the noise of an opening
door, I turned away from him for an instant,
and he was upon me. With both
hands he clutched my throat, and I felt his
hot breath upon me as he gibbered in my
face. In vain I struggled with him ; my
strength was puny compared with his. I
lost my footing, and he fell with me, never
relinquishing his murderous clutch of my
throat. My eyes seemed to be starting from
their sockets ; I ceased to struggle — I was
suffocating — dying — and then all was dark.
?!J * * * *

"There, he is comme to now! His eyes
are opening. How do you feel, Charlie ?"

It was Frank bending over me. I was
in my own room, in bed. Had it all been
a hideous dream ?

I suppose I said this aloud, for Frank
answered —

*' I wish it was a dream. You have had
a narrow escape. How you got there I
cannot understand ; but now, when you are
well enough, you must know all."

The shock had been terrible, but my
youth stood me in good stead, and I soon
was able to get up and go about again.
Then I heard the whole story, which was
shortly this. Geoffrey Ellaby had committed
a crime so heinous that, could it
have been made public, no expiation would
have been possible, and there was one witness
to it — a maid-servant in the castle
named Ellen Grey. She was a mercenary
girl and often threatened exposure. One
night Geoffrey met her in the courtyard,

for the alleged purpose of giving her a sum
of money before she left — a sum large
enough to make her independent for life.

This sum Geoffrey had failed to obtain, as
his father was then alive. Excuses were of
no avail; the girl furiously declared that
Lord Halberton and all the world should
know the horrible secret in the morning.
Exasperated beyond control, Geoffrey struck
her, and she fell stunned to the ground.
The sight of her lying there insensible suggested
an awful means of stopping her mouth
for ever; and, drawing a hunting-knife he
always carried, he cut her throat.

Under the courtyard ran a stream, which
served as sewer to the castle ; and, it having
been choked up, a hole had been lately dug
some twelve feet under the flags. This was
only partially filled up, and the next day
the job was to be completed. Into this he
threw the body, removing the earth already
thrown in, and then replacing it as before.
The labourers' work was finished next day ;

the maid, who had no friends among the
servants, and whose enigmatical threats and
vague airs of superiority had caused them to
think her " odd," was supposed to have
gone early in the morning, and there was no
suspicion of the deed that had been done.
But Geoffrey's mind, unhinged probably
before, was unable to bear the strain of the
constant terror of detection, and he became
insane.

In his first outbreak he told all the dreadful
story — luckily in the presence of his
father alone. Lord Halberton, sending
away all the servants, and taking care that
no one but himself and two old retainers he
could trust had access to the lunatic, made
certain of the truth of the story by a search
in the courtyard. It was given out, first,
that Geoffrey Ellaby had gone a voyage to
Australia, for his health, and then that he
had died at sea. The necessary proofs were
easily obtained ; and it was arranged, as the
safest plan, that the murderer should re-vol.

III. N

main for the rest of his life in the dungeon
of the castle where I had found him.

Lord Halberton never got over the shock
these discoveries had given him, for his
pride in the unstained name of his family
was almost a craze. In a sealed letter he
left after his death he told Frank — now
supposed and supposing himself to be Lord
Halberton — the horrible story, and bound
him, by his love for his father and his duty
to his family, to live at Ellaby, and to preserve
the dread secret, the publication of
which would drag the old name in the
mire. And, not long before his death, he
had extracted from Frank a solemn vow —
which, poor fellow, he gave readily enough
to the father he adored — to obey the instructions
he would leave at his death.

"What was the crime?" I asked, when I
heard Frank's recital.

He shivered.

Never ask — it is too horrible! I could
not put it into words."

*' And so you must go on keeping him
here, and taking him out every night, till he
dies?"

I must."

'why not tell Kate?"

"I have promised to tell no one. The
three men who know are devoted to us :
my father had to tell them. You ought
never to have known ; but as you found out
so much I thought it best you should
know all."

'' Poor Frank !"

Poor Kate !" he sighed, wearily.
* * # 5?^ *

I went back to my duty, and in a few
months received the following laconic
note : —

Dear Charlie,

"Ghost laid at last — for ever.
Thank God ! Come and stay with us. —
Yours,

"Frank."

n2

I did go and stay. There was no more
locking of the doors at night, no shrieks, no
mystery, and the colour had come back
again to my little sister's cheek.

OUR Vigilance COMMITTEE.

I.

T HAD better call the Club of which I have
-*- the extreme happiness to be a member
the Pall Mall Club, That is not its name, but
it would perhaps be invidious were I to tell
you exactly which of the palaces in that
thoroughfare it is. Suffice it that it is
second to none as to its wines, cookery, and
members. We blackball pretty freely at
the Pall Mall, and I do not think I am
wrong in saying that it is about the most
exclusive Club in London. At the head of
our Committee is the Duke of Putney and

Dorset, Keg., and among the members are
such names as Lord Middlemarch, '' the
poet of the dining-room," as some one called
him, whose father, the eminent stockbroker,
was created a Peer for Party
reasons; Mr. Everard Chutney, the richest
commoner in England, senior partner in the
eminent firm of Chutney, Pickelham, and
Co., who has twice won the Derby, and
who married, as everyone knows. Lady
Dora Little, second daughter of the Duke
of Sleepers, such a sweet hostess, with such
a cook! Then we had for another Committeeman
Sir Villiers Howard Tomkins, M.P., the
candid friend of the Ministry, lately given a
baronetcy to moderate his candour, and
who had totally eradicated all traces of the
old soap-boiling establishment by a very
serious and painstaking course of fashionable
struggling. Sir Villiers was perhaps our
most useful man; and it was, indeed,
owing to his efforts that we, alone among
the Clubs of London, used scented water ia

our finger-glasses and tooth-picks engraved
with the arms of the Club — a hand gloved
(lavender) and belonged (diamonds and or)
holding a ducal coronet.

One afternoon I strolled down to the
Pall Mall as usual to see whether I could
pick up some stray pieces of information
for the amusement of my wife during our
tete-a-teie dinner, and I found the morning-room
in a state of excitement.

In the centre of a group in the bow-window
was Sir Villiers Howard Tomkins
with a newspaper in his hand.

'' It is scandalous !" he was saying.

"Disgraceful!" said Lord Middlemarch,
shaking his tangled locks.

*^ Something must be done!"

Certainly, something must be done !"

Oh, here's the Duke !" as the Duke of
Putney and Dorset entered the room.

*' Duke, have you seen this ?"

'what? Eh? The new paper— the
Upper Ten ? No ; what's in it ?"

'Til read the paragraph to you," said
Sir Villiers, solemnly, and he proceeded todo
so : —

"' ' No, my dear Duchess, even a person of
your exalted rank, even one whose brother
is a Marquis, and who is first cousin to two
of the Cabinet; even a lady owning the
largest pearls and the prettiest grey ponies
in London, cannot quite defy the convenances.
You have lived too soon, ma petite Duchesse ;
if you will bathe in the Thames in view of
the vulgar public, are there no bathing
dresses to be obtained ? Oh, fie ! Despite
your lovely figure and marvellous ' headers,'
you have made us blush.' "

"Ah!" said the Duke, when Sir Villiers
put down the paper with an air of desperation.
"Ah! very interesting; but whom
does the fellow mean ?"

There was rather an embarrassed pause
for a moment ; no one was prepared for so
much ducal stupidity.

At last a sepulchral voice said —

*' Who is first cousin to two members of
the Cabinet?"

And then another voice, with increasing
solemnity —

*sand who is sister to a Marquis?"

Again a third voice —

"And who has the biggest pearls in
London ? "

'^ And the prettiest grey ponies ?"

'^ God bless my soul !" cried the Duke,
looking from one solemn face to another in
dismay; "they mean my wife!"

II.

^' Something must be done," again said Sir
Yilliers, pulling down his shirt-sleeves.

There was a general murmur of acquiescence.


The man must be worshipped !"

'Clicked r

Prosecuted !"

Indicted for libel at once !"

The Duke looked very uncomfortable
but said nothing. He had a small frame
and a large stomach, and the first two suggestions
were visibly inappropriate.

'' It is time," said Sir Villiers, " that these
abominable things are finally put a stop to.
Such an outrageous insult on a lady whom
we all have the honour of knowing, the wife
of the President of our Committee, should
be taken up and resented by the Club as a
Club."

With a Club," put in a wag ; but no
one laughed — the matter was too serious,
and levity was felt to be out of place.

The Duke looked somewhat relieved ; no
personal action on his part seemed to be
required.

It is very wrong," he muttered, reading
the peccant paragraph over again ; " but it
is just possible that wee may be mistaken,
that the man doesn't mean "

"Is there another Duchess who drives

grey ponies and who has two cousins in the
Cabinet?" asked Sir Villiers, severely. ^' No.
The whole world knows who is meant, and
the outrage must be dealt with at once.
We must strike quick and strike hard, in
the name of Society."

'^ A la lantern cried a young member,
who had been to the Paris Exhibition, which
he called Exposition, for a week, and learned
French during the period.

^' I wonder whether the editor of the
Upper Ten is a large man," murmured Lord
Middlemarch, dreamily.

"Oh, anyone can thrash a d — d writing
fellow," said the wag, who had sent many
jokes to Punchy and felt just anger at their
never having been inserted.

I think we should keep within the law,"
said the Duke, hesitatingly.

'' The law," enunciated Sir Villiers, in a
tone which carried conviction, "never will
protect the vermin who libel ladies and

gentlemen behind their backs. What I
propose, gentlemen, is that we at once forma
Vigilance Committee."

"Capital!"

'just the thing!"

Of course !"

"Yes — well — perhaps " said the Duke.

"But — excuse my asking — what is the
nature and what will be the duties of a
Vigilance Committee?"

To protect Society from the slanderous
attacks of anonymous writers in the Press."

"Ah!— but how?"

"By promptly resenting them. Would
you permit this slander to pass unpunished
?"

"Well," said the Duke, gently, " I think
that perhaps the Duchess "

A woman cannot protect herself; it is
for us to do so. We will take this insult as
to each one of us, Duke."

Oh, thank you," said the poor Duke,
"but "

Yes, let us form a Committee at once,
and it can then hold a meeting upstairs to
concert measures. You will be the Chairman,
Duke ?"

I ? No, as it's a personal matter, I think
1 had better not."

As you please," said Sir Villiers, with a
touch of scorn. 'now, gentlemen, who will
join the Committee?"

After some further conversation ten members
were elected, of whom I was one, and
we proceeded upstairs to concert measures ;
the result being that it was decided to take'
no hostile steps against the editor of the
Upper Ten for this particular paragraph,
but simply to order our news agent to discontinue
sending in that paper, and to
request the Committees of other Clubs todo
likewise. As most of them complied,
the result was that members had to buy the
paper for themselves— it being understood
that the next libel was to be dealt with in
some mysteriously awful manner — and the

circulation of the Upper Ten was very
largely increased.

III.

The Upper Ten came out on Thursday, and
on that day in the next week the Vigilance
Committee came together in a very excited
state, each of us brandishing our six-pennyworth
of scandal.

'' Have you seen it ?"

Worse than ever!"

Shameful !"

Sir Villiers came in last, and we noticed
that he had discarded the neat umbrella
with an onyx top which he usually carried,
and instead held in his hand a strong cane
with a piece of leather to go round the
wrist. His face was solemn, and portentous
of determination and fixity of purpose.

'* You have seen this week's Upper Ten f
he asked. Eagerly we all held up our
papers.

^' Perhaps it would be best for me to
read the paragraph we all of us are thinking
of:—

' You have very pretty ankles, dear
Duchess, and, as we told you last week,
your figure is as exquisite as your pearls
and your ponies ; but surely the dehardeuse
costume is scarcely en regie, even to play
lawn-tennis in, when you are alone amongst
a party of 3'Oung men at your pretty
Maidenhead villa ! And, Duchess, what is
this we hear of a statue of your Grace, life-size,
as Venus rising from the sea — strictly
classical — and the sculptor is young, is he
not ? What is the poor dear Duke thinking
of? You are young and pretty — we own it
but a line must be drawn somewhere'' "

There was a dead silence as Sir Villiers
finished his reading. The Vigilance Committee
felt its responsibility had commenced
in earnest.

'' I presume there can be no doubt in any
of our minds as to who is meant. The

VOL. III.

villa at Maidenhead — the pearls — the ponies
all point to the Duchess of Putney.''

The Duchess of Putney and Dorset''
put in a member, who was a stickler for
correctness.

^*The Duchess of Putney and Dorset, of
course," said Sir Villiers, frowning. " The
time for action has arrived, gentlemen."

We all assented, and waited to hear what
form the action was to take.

To recount all our discussion would be
tedious. Suffice it that at last we named a
deputation of three who were to wait upon
the editor of the Upper Ten, and require
the name of the author of this abominable
paragraph. I was of the three.

Arrived at the office, we were, after some
delay, shown into a room at the far end of
which, seated at a table which was between
him and us, was an individual with a hook
nose, dark whiskers, and a profusion of
jewellery.

Be seated, gentlemen," he said, pointing

with his pen to some chairs near the wall.
Then, observing that we hesitated, '' Pray
be seated. I cannot transact business with
persons standing up, and it's a peculiarity of
my dog " — here we observed that an enormous
bull-dog was lying on the hearth-rug
^' to fly at people moving about in a room.
He is very quiet out of doors, but in a room
I cannot always answer for him. Might I
ask you not to shuffle your legs about, as it
annoys him ? — and I am sorry to say he is
in so bad a temper this morning that I cannot
quite answer for him."

*' Had you not better send the brute out
of the room?" said SirVilliers, looking pale
and determined.

I fear he would not obey me — and I
would prefer not to disturb him. There will
be no danger if you sit still and do not raise
your voices too much. I could scarcely
keep him off anyone who became excited
or moved suddenly."

Really, sir," I said, with some petulance,

o 2

for I detest dogs — especially bull-dogs — " it
is too absurd that "

Hush, please r said the editor, looking
anxiously at the brute. " Do not speak
excitedly, I entreat. I see Bob has his eye
on you."

He had — he certainly had his eye upon
me. The deputation of the Vigilance Committee
of the Pall Mall Club sat very still
on their three chairs, and even Sir Yilliers
seemed for the moment to forget that his
shirt-cuffs were not visible.

"Well, gentlemen, your business, if you.
please?" said the editor, politely. "My
time is valuable."

We come, sir, on behalf of " began

Sir Villiers.

Please speak gently, sir — quite gently
thank you."

We come," went on our chairman, in a
dulcet whisper, '^ on behalf of a Vigilance
Committee, formed at the Pall Mall Club,
for the protection of ladies and gentlemen

in Society from libels in the Press, to demand
the name of the author of a certain
paragraph in your paper which unmistakably
points to a lady who is the wife of one of
our members, and alludes to her in terms of
the grossest kind."

This would have been impressive delivered
in Sir Villiers' usual peremptory tones, but
spoken as if it were a tender inquiry after
the editor's health, or a friendly invitation
to dinner, it somehow missed its effect.

Thank you, you have not disturbed
Bob'' said the editor, courteously. " And
what is the name of the lady who considers
herself aggrieved ?"

Bob yawned, and we involuntarily looked
at the huge teeth the action revealed.

"We consider ourselves — we consider
society — aggrieved by the insult to a leading
member of it, and we come to you in
the name of Society," said Sir Villiers, in a
very low tone.

'' Ah, in the name of Society !" repeated

the editor, picking his teeth; "indeed'*
Yes, sir," cried Sir Yilliers, putting back
one arm for the purpose of pulling down
his sleeve, but pausing in the act as he met
Bob's glassy eye. '' Yes, sir," he went on,
very gently ; " and to demand the name of
the writer of the paragraph."

I'm afraid I can't manage that."
*' You refuse ! Then let me tell you — "
Take care, sir — for Heaven's sake take
care ! If you raise your voice I cannot
answer for the consequences, and — excuse
me — but I should not like an accident to
happen here. Will that gentleman be good
enough not to swing his leg about ?"

I planted my feet firmly on the floor,
noticing as I did so that Bob was watching
them as a cat does a mouse.

*' I advise you to think twice before sending
us back to the Committee with such an
insolent answer," said Sir Villiers, almost ina
whisper.

^' It don't require any thought," said the
editor, lighting a cigarette. " It is not our
practice to give up the names of our contributors
unless they wish it. I will communicate
with the person who wrote the
paragraph of which you complain, and possibly
the name may be given you, although
it will be against my advice if it is. In the
meantime, you have your remedy at law ;
you, or rather this lady's husband, can take
any action you please. As I observed before,
my time is valuable — good morning,
gentlemen. I am very pleased to have-made
the acquaintance of such zealous and
courageous champions of Society. Please
be careful to rise quietly — thanks — and
don't put on your hats till you are outside
the door. Bob is the champion of good
manners, just as you are the champions of
Society. Good morning."

When we rose Bob had also risen, and
perhaps it was owing to this fact that Sir Villiers

made no reply to the wicked insolence
of the scoundrel editor.

I had no idea our chairman was so heavy
till he stood on my corn as we jostled
through the door together ; but Bob was
advancing, and I thought it impolite to cry
out.

We were all very silent as we drove back
to the Club.

Energetic measures must be taken," said
Sir Villiers, firmly, as we got out of my T
cart.

Certainly," we rejoined.

Even if I horsewhip that insolent snob
myself."

Most decidedly," we again replied.

'' Perhaps we had better not report to
the Committee at present. It is of no use
doing so in the middle of the negotiation,"
he remarked, at the top of the steps. In
this we most cordially agreed ; and, having
arranged for a meeting on the morrow, we
separated, with mixed feelings as to the

pleasure and dignity of belonging to a
Vigilance Committee for the Defence of
Society.

IV.

It is rather a curious coincidence that I did
not happen to know the lady in whose behalf
I was enlisted. She was such a very
great person and so generally known that I
had got into the habit of thinking that I
was personally acquainted with her, while
in reality I blush to say that I did not even
know her by sight, although there were one
or two ladies among whom lay the choice
in ray mind ; but I was ashamed to ask
anyone, for such ignorance would have been
too humiliating.

No knight of old days, however, could
have buckled on his armour to do battle for
his lady with more zeal than I braced myself
for the conflict to avenge the Duchess's
wrongs, for was I not one of her order, my

great-grandfather having been first cousin
to a peer ? And does not noblesse oblige ?

So when I received a hasty note from Sir
Villiers, two days after our visit to the
editor with the bull-dog, saying that a letter
had been received by him to the effect that
the author of the dreadful paragraph was
willing to meet one member of our Committee
at the office of the paper, and that I
had been selected as the emissary, I tried to
forget all about Bob's tremendous fangs, and
drove valiantly down to the Strand.

I took with me a good strong cane, and —
let me confess it — I also took inside me a
good strong glass of the old Club brandy.

Visions of hand-to-hand encounters, of one
heroic gentleman struggling alone against
editors, contributors, sub-editors, printers,
and printers' devils, with one calf firmly
held between the teeth of a bull-dog — visions
of trials for assault and battery — of hard
labour — of enormous fines — of duels and
hair-triggers — but also of much praise and

honour in the drawing-rooms of Society and
morning-rooms of Clubs — flitted through my
brain as I entered the outer ofl&ce of the
Upper Ten and sent a note, previously
written at the Club, to the editor. I was
shown into a small room upstairs ; it was
empty. Were the contributors, as well as
the editor, also accompanied by bull-dogs
with irritable nerves? 1 wondered. The
handle of the door turned — I drew myself
up to the full height — I grasped my cane
firmly in the right hand, while the left I
prepared as a shield and buckler against the
blows of the coming enemy — the door
opened — and there entered the prettiest
small lady imaginable, plainly dressed in
black, with great laughing blue eyes and
curly auburn hair. She made me a demure
little curtsey, and, taking a seat, she
motioned to me also to be seated.

"You do not know me?" she asked
looking, 1 thought, at me in some surprise.

Evidently some well-known authoress.

^^No, Madam," I stammered; "although
I daresay I know you well by your works."

*' Well, sir," she went on, with fun dancing
in those wonderful eyes, " so you have
come to horsewhip me. wrote the paragraph
about the Duchess of Putney — and I
meant her. Now then !"

She crossed her arms with a little air of
defiance that was quite enchanting. Horsewhip
her! I longed to fall down and
worship her. If there were many contributors
of this kind, I would myself start a
society Paper" at once.

You really shouldn't have written it, for
you know it is not true, and — and — it has
hurt the Duchess's feelings."

"Oh, has it?" she said, dryly.

Of course you don't know the Duchess ?"
I asked.

Well, no, not exactly. Do you?"

Yes, Madam," I replied, and, indeed, I
felt, as I have explained, as if I did know
that lady.

*' Oh, and she is hurt, is she ?"
*' Terribly ; as are also her friends."
'' But supposing the paragraph told the
truth ?"

*the greater the truth the greater the
libel," I said, with a dim recollection of
some legal axiom of the sort, which, by the
way, sounds very silly when you think it
over. " And, besides, Madam, if it were
possible, which of course it is not, for such
things to be done by persons in Society, they
are not to be put in print for the amusement
of all the shopboys who choose to buy the
Upper Ten. They are not," I cried, warming
into eloquence, and a little stung by the
expression of amusement on her lovely face,
'' to be made the subject of coarse jest and
inuendo in the street and the tavern, in the
servants'-hall and the pantry." '^ The pantry
" was weak — T felt it was weak — but I
could think of no other place at the moment.
'coal-barge" came into my head,
but I had my doubts as to whether bargees

did take in sixpenny '* Journals of Society."
"Why not?" said the contributor.
Why not, Madam ! Can you ask me ?
Because there is a delicacy, a refinement,
which, although it may sometimes overstep
the boundary of strict decorum, will always
among the upper classes — shrink from
the vulgarity of the public gaze." This was
good — very good ; but still I saw her covert
smile — which became her rosebud mouth
wonderfully, by-the-by — and I began to
wonder what would be the upshot of it all.
I saw that I could gain nothing better than
an apology, and, looking at her face, I
scarcely thought I had much chance of even
that.

*you are behind the age, my dear sir,"
she said, taking a little cigarette out of a
dainty silver case. " Publicity is part of
the thing now. We all revel in a glasshouse
existence, aud rather enjoy the game
of stone-throwing. The crash of the glass
is music in our ears. Have you a light ?"

I lit her cigarette for her. What a lovely
little hand she had, and how deliciously she
sent her first puff of smoke into my face and
nearly blinded me, and laughed, such a sweet
ringing laugh ! I laughed too as I rubbed
ray eyes, and thought of Sir Villiers sitting
at the Club, pouring out strings of anathemas
against the reptile libelling. She a
reptile ! She was — but I must proceed with
my true narrative.

'well, sir, what do you propose to do?
Why don't you horsewhip me ? I should
rather like it. I came in to be horse-whipped,
you know."

"Ladies cannot be punished in that way.
There is a way, though," I said, looking as
arch as ever I could.

"And what is that?" she asked, leaning
back in her chair and revealing the daintiest
of little feet and high-heeled boots.

I hesitated. Bah ! She was one of the
contributors to a low newspaper.

"The ordeal by kissing " I began.

Sir !"

I was electrified. Her tone was that of
an offended queen — but there was a twinkle
in her eye too.

''If people choose to behave " I

began.

Don't be foolish, sir ; and stick to your
business. Is the Duke — the Duke of Put-ney
— one of your precious Vigilance Committee
?"

^'No;he "

'' Who is the head of it? Are you?"

Sir Villiers Howard-tokens, Member
for Scarborough, is our chairman, and Lord
Middlemarch "

"Old March Hare!" and she burst out
laughing. " Who else ?"

I was offended by her levity. But what
could I say to so lovely and fragile a little
creature?

Mr. Chutney, of Chutney."

Pompous Chut, too 1 Oh, dear ! This
is very funny," she went on, her manner

becoming suddenly serious. 'the great
position and social importance of your Committee
induce me to make a great concession.
Your vigilance shall have its reward.
I will consent to go and see the Duchess
and apologise in person to her, and, if you
and the gentlemen you have named will
come to Putney House tomorrow at twelve
o'clock, I will meet you there, and you shall
introduce me to them, and hear me also
apologise to them, if they then require it."
"They will require a very ample apology."



'* They shall have it, if they want it."
'but I am not sure that the Duchess will
consent to receive you."

'*I will take my chance of that. She
can scarcely refuse to allow me to express
my contrition for having hurt her Grace's
feelings, or also to apologise, through your
Committee, to outraged society for my
offence. Sit down and write a note to herat
once — here are paper and pens — men-vol.

III. P

turning that the other gentlemen will arrive
at twelve."

She had an imperious manner which no
one could have resisted, and I sat down
and wrote. Would Sir Villiers or any of
the others have succeeded as I had done ?

I doubted it. Perhaps my manner with
women was rather good.

The letter was sealed and directed, and I
took my leave, pressing her delicate fingers
as I did so, and looking forward to the
morrow, when I should see her saucy riante
face again.

If I told you that I had fallen in love at
first sight with this wicked little scandalous
writer, you might not believe me, but it was
a fact for all that.

V.

Even the Member for Scarborough could
not — although he seldom approved of anything
not done by himself — refrain from

some slight praise of my tact when I related
to him the particulars and result of my
interview.

Ladylike you say she was, eh ? Pretty,
1 daresay, in a dairymaid, vulgar style ; but
ladylike ! No, my dear fellow, you must
permit me to doubt that, for you are so
easily imposed upon, you know, and there
is a je ne sais quoi about a lady which it
requires peculiar qualities quite to appreciate.
Having such a person in her house
will be very disagreeable to the Duchess, of
course ; but, if she agrees, we can only
make the interview as short as possible.
Twelve o'clock, eh ?"

At twelve o'clock punctually next day
we were, all ten of us, at Putney House,
and were shown into the dining-room,
where we found the Duke, looking rather
annoyed, I thought, as well he might be.

It's the most foolish business," he said.

Really, Duke !" said our chairman,
rather huffily, "I cannot see that. This

atrocious woman shall hear from me — in
the presence of the lady she has insulted —
some home-truths ; and who knows but that
our prompt action in this matter may not
have effect on the rest of the brood of
vipers r

The Make shrugged his shoulders. I
fancied I discerned a smile at the corners
of his mouth.

A servant entered and asked me to follow
him. In a small room in the same
passage, whither he showed me, I found
my pretty little writer, looking prettier
than ever. It was all I could do to prevent
myself falling at her feet then and there.

"You mustn't be nervous. The Duchess
is very good-natured," I said, holding her
hand as long as I could.

Oh, is she ? I'll try not to be nervous."


'' You'd better have accepted the penalty
I proposed," I whispered in her ear.

I think we will go into the drawing-room,"

she remarked, gently withdrawing
her hand from mine.

One thing remember," I said, hurriedly,
as she moved towards the door. *' I acquit
you of all blame in this matter, and — and
v/ill you allow our acquaintance to continue
may I call on you — will you give me
your address ?"

You will know it directly," she said, as
I followed her into the passage.

Go in first and tell them who is with
you," she whispered, and, entering the
drawing-room, I said —

Gentlemen, allow me to present to you
the lady who acknowledges to having written
the paragraph in the Upper Ten which
we were obliged to resent, and who is anxious
to apologise to you for the same."

I caught sight of the Duke's face as I
spoke, and was puzzled at the intense
amusement depicted on it. I turned round,
and the wicked little woman entered.

Sir Villiers turned ashy white, Lord

Middlemarch started up with an ejaculation,
and Mr. Chutney exclaimed, in accents of
surprise I can hear now, " The Duchess !"

VI.

Yes, gentlemen," she said, coming forward,
and standing by the Duke, and placing
her little hand within his arm, ^' I wrote
the paragraph which you wished to resent
in the name of Society. I had heard tell
of the deeds you were going to do, and I
wished to test your zeal for that Society
which you adorn. Might I recommend you
in future to do two things ? — to mind your
own business, and — not to be afraid of bulldogs.
And you, sir," — here she turned tome
with a smile — " you really mustn't make
love at first sight to writers for the Press,
or they might put in paragraphs which your
wife could understand. And, now that
Society is avenged — shall we go in to
luncheon ?"

A COWES Idol,

JOHN,

M

II /■ ANY people have forgotten, for at the
-^^^ pace we live now even the most
interesting scandal can scarcely claim its
legitimate nine days of wonder — many people,
I say, have probably forgotten the little
excitement at Cowes last year, when Lady
Peckover did something which caused such
anguish to the soul of Sir Henry, her husband,
as to force him to take refuge in the
Court of Bankruptcy, while the lady retired
to the temporary seclusion of her parents'
country home. The Peckovers have come

together again since then, and, some mysterious
improvements in their pecuniary
affairs having taken place, give charming
little dinners in Park Lane. If Lord Gold-bury
is very often there, it is no affair of
ours, and, as long as we are invited to partake
of their banquets, what does it matter
to us who pays for them ? I, for one, detest
the carping spirit that insists on looking every
gift horse in the mouth, and which cannot
allow a pretty woman to wear pretty clothes,
ride a pretty horse, live in a pretty house,
and spend a pretty penny, without inquiring
into the state of her husband's banking account.
Such pettiness is beneath the tolerance
of our nineteenth century. I myself
had quite forgotten all about the Peckover
incident of last year, although at the time
its mystery had rather piqued my curiosity,
and should probably have never thought of
it again had not my steps turned last winter
to an unfrequented village in the south of
Italy, where I went to contemplate Nature

for a space, undisturbed by the cackle of
English and American tourists.

It was about twelve miles from a railway
station, and the inn was small and poor ;
so that I heard with some surprise at the
small table-d'hote the familiar accents of the
Anglo-Italian tongue, and, turning round,
was still more surprised to see, partially
disguised by a new beard, no less a person
than John Harding, of Harding, the young,
millionaire who had burst upon London a
couple of seasons before, and who had disappeared
entirely from view at the very
time of the Cowes excitement concerning
the Peckovers.

As I warmly greeted him, and remembered
that at first his name had been mixed
up with that of her sprightly little ladyship,
but that, when she was known to have retired
alone to the innocent quiet of her
parents' house, it became apparent that we
had falsely suspected the shy John Harding
of Don Judaism, I remembered, however,.

that when I had imparted my first suspicion
to Alan de Beandesse (the Duke of Beefan-
ham's second son), that smart young gentleman,
a great friend of the Peckovers, had
looked so mysteriously knowing, and been
withal so uncommunicative, that I had longed
to kick him, and that he had not seemed
afterwards entirely to agree with me in
acquitting Harding of all share in the Peck-over
quarrel.

What on earth are you doing here ?" I
asked, as we proceeded to tackle the doubtful
table dliote food-john
replied, looking rather sheepish,
Oh ! I don't know. Nice quiet place ;
out of the way."

'* Quiet enough, in all conscience, and out

of the way. But you don't mean to say you

have been staying here long?"

'* Only three months."

Only three months ! Why, my dear

fellow," I began, for the idea of a man staying

three months in such a place filled me
with horror.

*' I had a reason for wishing to be out of
the way, which, perhaps — By-the-by,
where are the Peckovers now ?"

He asked the question suddenly, keeping
his eyes on the table, and I thought I saw
a blush come upon his cheek.

The Peckovers ! Oh ! I believe they
have made up their quarrel, whatever it was,
and are living together again. It was mysterious,
that row, wasn't it ?"

"Did no one, I mean has no one, any
idea what it was all about ?"

There was deep agitation in his voice, and
the prospect of clearing up a mystery cheered
me, and enabled me to face the so-called
beef now presented to us with greater chance
of mastication,

''No. There was a notion once that



groaned; and an Italian bagman

opposite, who thought his feelings were hurt
by the toughness of the meat, groaned from
sympathy.

Don't, my dear fellow ! For God's
sake don't !"

Why? Is it a sore subject ?" I asked.
*sore! It is perfectly appalling! So
you say they have come together again ?"
'eyes."

He gave a sigh of relief, and changed the
subject, his spirits visibly raised by ray intelligence.


After dinner I went to the expense of
ordering a bottle of champagne, which,
sweet as it was, led to another ; and, when
we adjourned to the pretty garden to smoke,
John Harding was in that comfortable, communicative
state which only needs the addition
of a good cigar to make a man do a
kindness or let out a secret. I gave him a
good cigar. And this shows the strength
of my desire for information. I, a traveller
in Italy — the land of prohibitive tobacco

duties and Cavour weeds — gave him a shilling
cigar from my London tobacconist's !

We got on the subject of women before
long, as men so often do after a bottle or
two of wine (the next stage is theology).

"They are queer creatures," enunciated
my friend, gazing at the moon, and making
rings with his smoke.

They are, indeed," I assented.

'^ Awful creatures," he repeated, with emphasis.


'' Awful," again I echoed.

By Gad, sir !" and he raised himself in
his chair and looked in my face, " they will
do anything, will women — anything !"

*' Sometimes."

^' Sometimes ! Always. There is no fear,
no hesitation — look here — it's been on my
mind for a long while, and I feel that I
could bear it better if I told some one. I
am exiled by a woman !"

By Jove !" — I was getting near the
secret now.

Yes — positively exiled by one. But I
daresay the story would bore you ?"

No, not at all. Indeed, I should rather
like to hear it."

'' Well, you remember that fuss at Cowes
last autumn ? You were talking about them
just now."

''ThePeckovers? Yes."

It's a horrible story' he said, shuddering
; " but 1 think I'll tell you. Perhaps if
they have come together again I may. At
any rate, I'll tell you all about it, and I
shall expect your sympathy."

*you shall have it, old fellow," I rejoined,
pressing his hand. '' Go ahead."

II.

'the first thing I saw in London when I
first came up from Oxford was Lady Peck-over's
face," he began, " and after that I
saw nothing else. It was as if I had looked
into the sun and was dazzled. She was

everywhere. She seemed, so to speak, to
pervade my whole existence. Of course I
fought against it as much as possible, for I
never forgot that she was a married woman,
and I never was one of your unprincipled
fellows, you know. At any rate, I determined
to worship her at a distance, and
never let her know what I felt. She seemed
so good and pure that I knew — or
thought I knew — my sentiments would have
shocked her terribly ; and, besides, I never
would have done so wrong a thing by a
friend (and I made great friends with Sir
Henry) as to make love to his wife. I must
have managed my concealment very well,
too, for it was extraordinary how often he
asked me to dinner, and was always making
little plans by which I found myself alone
with her. Often, even when I called —
against my wish, but my legs hould carry
me to their house — and he happened to beat
home, he would go out, leaving me to sit
like a fool, scarcely daring to look at her

VOL. III. Q

lovely face, and too afraid of myself to dare
to speak. And I couldn't go away. Oh !
the hours I have spent sitting in a chair in
that little dining-room, with my hat beside
me, not saying a word ; but listening to
her rippling talk, and now and again just
glancing at her bright eyes ! By Jove !
how bright they were ! She was so popular
that I often wondered no one else called
when I was there. And I often fancied I
heard rings and knocks at the door. But
certainly, I scarcely ever was disturbed.

Sir Henry's confidence in me was wonderful,
and amply repaid me the little
assistance I was enabled sometimes to give
him ; for you know he was not quite as
well off as he might have been."

'eyes, I know," I replied, wondering at
the innocence beside me.

"Well," went on John Harding, "as the
season went on I grew more and more infatuated
; but I kept a strict watch on myself,
and though I will own to you, my dear

fellow, that the opportunities Sir Henry gave
me in the house I took for Ascot, and again
at Bognor, where I got a place for Good-wood,
and again at Cowes, when they came
on board my yacht, and afterwards in Scotland,
when they came to my place, were
ample, I came through with flying colours,
and never said a thing (whatever I may
have thought) that could cause me to hesitate
to take the man's hand and look him in
the face.

"I thought sometimes that he did not
much care for his wife, and certainly they
had some quarrels which appeared to me
to be rather more bitter than necessary.
And of course I knew that he was a great
deal with that actress ; but because he behaved
ill that was no reason I should do so.
T was determined to keep my love (I always
called her that to myself of course) on the
pedestal where I had placed her ; and I give
you my v/ord that I never did more than
on one occasion press my lips upon her

Q^2

hand. Then we got through the next
season, during which the differences between
the Peckovers got worse and worse, and I
fear the pecuniary difficulties increased in
the same ratio, for Lady P. was an extravagant
little woman, and aesthetic ; at least she
said she was esthetic, and then — and then
we went to Cowes for the second time."

He shuddered slightly as he came to this
point in his recital and paused. When we
had ordered cognac, *' fine champagne," and
a syphon, he took in some Dutch courage,
and resumed —

*' I had given up my yacht then, for I
was always sea-sick if we went outside the
Solent, and it's no use paying through the
nose and mouth for a thing you hate — and
determined to enjoy myself looking at the
yachts from the shore. The Peckovers came
to the same hotel as myself; but things were
not quite comfortable between us. Sir Henry
had been losing a great deal all the racing
season, and, though not, I hope, a stingy

fellow, I had thought it necessary to draw
the line somewhere, and had — it was just
before we left town — absolutely refused to
lend him any more. What between him and
his wife I had spent — but it's no use going
into that now. He seemed very angry fora
moment, but checked himself, and was
quite friendly when we met at the Castle at
Cowes, more friendly than ever, I thought.
So was she. Never had I had such a struggle
with my inclination as I had that first
week at the sea. I was never away from
her side for a moment; or, if I was, her
eyes, in which there was something inexpressibly
melancholy and touching, immediately
recalled me. Of course I knew people
were talking — had been talking of us for
some time; but as long as I had a clear
conscience I did not care, especially as, when
I had once hinted something of this to her,
she had laughed and declared she did not
mind what they said.

' You know, John, it is all untrue,' she

said, sighing, and transfixing me with her
gaze.

' Yes, Lady Peckover,' I answered.

*' 'You never call me Nelly ; even people
I don't care about call me Nelly,' she said
again, with another sigh.

'' I explained to her that it was better
not; that, whatever others might do, I, at
least, was never going to overstep the
boundary of deep respect, mingled with devotion
of the purest kind. And, as I said
this, I raised one of her white hands to my
lips.

Looking up afterwards, I certainly imagined
I saw an angry expression on her face ;
but it probably was only fancy. Her face
was as changeable as an April day, but
always beautiful. Even when she scolded
her maid — as she had done pretty sharply
before me once or twice — and her eyes
flashed, and her little foot stamped upon
the ground, she was perfectly enchanting;
and I envied her maid, who touched her

hair — such hair as it is ! — without any qualm
of conscience.

*' We had a common sitting-room at the
hotel, Alan de Beandesse making up the
party. Alan had become a great friend of
mine, and was always talking of Lady Peck-over,
whom he called Nelly; and, in a
wrapped up way, urging me to — well, to do
what would have been wrong; but Alan
had no more principle than a cow. No De
Beandesse ever had, I believe, from the
days of William the Conqueror (when the
representative of the family had the privilege
of presenting the monarch with his
morning draught) until now.

'this is a capital cigar, but it's done.
You haven't another, have you? Mine
have been gone a long time, and those here
are unsociable."

It was a high price to pay even for the
interesting denouement of his tale ; but I
gave him another, and, puffing, he proceeded.


III.

*' Alan had, as you know, one of those
beastly white boats — Una boats, they are
sometimes called — with a box in the middle
for a keel or something ; an arrangement I
have never understood, for I always thought
the keel was at the bottom of a vessel ; it
certainly was in my yacht.

"The little ruses 1 practised to avoid
sailing in this detestable machine were
numerous ; but Lady Peckover had set her
heart on it, and of course she had her way
in the end. So one morning — a fresh breeze
blowing 'ois the land,' as Alan said, 'just
the thing to take us over to Southampton to
lunch ' — we sallied forth, armed with opera-glasses
and rugs innumerable, and found the
instrument of torture at the landing-steps,
with Alan, superbly attired in blue serge,
awaiting us.

"The boat looked so very small and
insignificant that I couldn't help asking
whether it was safe, as there was a good

deal of wind, which appeared to be rising.

"safe as a church — jump in — now,
Lady Peckover — that's it — sit down there :
in the well, like Truth. The True is the
Beautiful, you know. Isn't that what you
High Art people say? Now, John, in you
get ; we don't want the keel down, as ita
dead run across; — why, where's the
Baronet?'

^ Oh, he always forgets something,' said
his wife. * He's left his glasses at home or
something.'

' Well, we'll just get her away from
these steps, as she's bumping her paint off.
Catch hold of the tiller, John, for a moment.
I want to get the jib up.'

*' ' But I can't steer,' I cried.

' Never mind, put it up, to your left —
that's right ; we can come back to pick up
Sir Henry.' As he spoke, a gust came and
laid the boat over on her side, but she
righted again at once. 'That's because the
keel ain't down ; but we shan't want it when

we're once ois,' said Alan, with a heartless
laugh — heartless because he might have
seen the agony depicted on my face. How
I regretted that Lady Peckover was so
largely endowed with courage ! but she
showed no sign of wishing to back out of
our dangerous enterprise.

'behave you left your keel at home?' I
asked, snappishly.

"eat home! No,' he said, laughing;
but, by Jove ! I have left something at
home — the key of the locker. We'll just
go in to the pier. That's it ! Now catch
hold of the tiller and keep her up in the
wind till I'm back — won't be a minute.'

"He brought the boat up close to the
steps as he spoke, and jumped out. The
action of his foot sent the boat's stern out ;
something happened — I don't know what —
but before I could do anything to prevent it
the mainsail flew out — the cord or sheet,
or whatever stupid name sailors may give it,
having been improperly secured, and, to my

horror and agony, we were flying away
from the shore at a terrific pace.

' Bring her up ! Pat your helm down T
shouted Alan, from the shore.

"I pushed the tiller one way, and in a
moment we were lying on our side; so I
pulled it back again, or we should have
upset.

' Let down the keel !' yelled Alan.

Let down the keel ! How was I to do
so? I didn't even know where the keel
was, nor where it was to be let down to.
I frantically undid a rope, and a little stick
a topmast, I think it is called — came
down like a rocket stick, and went close by
Lady Peckover's head.

The wind howled in my ears ; surely it
was blowing a hurricane ! and madly I
pushed the dreadful tiller away from me ;
again we lay over on our side, and the water
covered the deck until I pulled it back
again ; and then again we flew before the
wind, escaping collision with the anchored

yachts by a succession of miracles. Despair
seized upon me. I looked back on the
receding shore ; I saw Alan gesticulating
wildly, I saw Sir Henry join him, and seem
to be expostulating angrily with him; then
the latter dashed down the steps, and
jumped into a boat that was lying there,
which immediately shoved off. But pursuit
was useless — we were literally flying — and
in a few minutes the Baronet stood up and
could I believe my eyes ? — shook his fist
in fury at us. I turned to my companion
with a frenzy of despair, and my eyes met
hers. She put her hand in mine, which
still grasped the cursed tiller, and said, in a
low, thrilling tone I shall never forget —

^ Oh ! John, why have you done this ?
You have ruined me !'

rv.

Can anyone imagine a more fearful position?"
went on John Harding, with emotion,

"alone with the lady in a boat, the
management of which I did not in the least
understand, with the wind howling and the
open sea before us, and with the husband —
perhaps naturally misunderstanding the
situation — howling behind us. ^ You have
ruined me !' What did she mean ? Did
she also believe that I had done it on purpose
— that my ignorance of the accursed
boat, or of the use of the tiller and the
main-sheet was assumed ? I could scarcely
believe it. Yet when, her hand still being
on mine, I glanced at her face, I read
nothing but fear and soft reproach there.

"ruined you!' I gasped, clutching the
tiller, and making the boat lie over on its
side by another attempt to turn her round.
'IT

^ Oh, John !' she cried, putting both her
hands on mine, *do turn before it is too
late. Perhaps even now he would forgive

me — I am weak — foolish, but Yes,

John, let us turn back even now.'

"Turn back! Oh, that only I could!
But on we flew, and no efforts of mine could
stay us. I tried to remember what I had
seen done to the keel, but it was an enigma
to me.

*' 'Can't you undo it?' I cried, petulantly.

^ Would that we could undo it ! — perhaps
it is not too late,' she murmured, pensively,
bowing her head down upon her hands.

'' ' No— I mean the keel '

* Ah ! I was not talking of keels, John,'
she said, in accents of reproach.

' But, good heavens, Lady Peck-over
! '

' At such a moment — Lady Peckover !
You might call me Nelly now.'

' Well, Nelly — or whatever you please —
don't you see that we are helpless — that I
can't do anything with the beastly boat —
that we shall be carried out to sea and
drowned unless we are picked up by some
steamer ?'

"That thought gave me some comfort,

and I eagerly scanned the water in search
of some vessel that could save us.

' And then where shall we go, John ?'

' Where ? Why, back again.'

^' ' No, no !' she cried, sitting up and
looking me full in the face. 'Back?
Never ! Do you think T could face him ?
Do you think I could let you incur such
danger for my sake, John ?'

At any other time the tenderness in her
voice and eyes would have thrilled me;
now, however, I was too agitated and
alarmed to be impressed by it.

^* ' There is no danger in returning I
said. * Sir Henry could never suppose
'

^ Sir Henry ! Did you see his expression
as we sailed away? Sir Henry does
suppose the worst. It is done, John — done,
irrevocably done.'

It seemed like a hideous dream. There
we were, flying away from land, from
hope, with unknown danger on every side ;

and by my side the woman talked calmly of
our having done a thing against which my
whole moral nature rebels.

' Can we not let down the keel ?' I
exclaimed, helplessly.

^ Where is it ?' she inquired, indifferently,
looking up at the mast, to which, indeed, I
believed it to be in some mysterious manner
fastened.

'' On ! on ! we went ! The wind changing
a little, we were obliged to keep to the
right of Portsmouth — to the right of the
forts. In vain I waved my handkerchief
and shouted as we passed the second of
these. The artillerymen lounging about
thought it was only a demonstration of joy,
and shouted back again. On ! on ! The
hand that held the tiller grew numb ; I
felt a singing in my ears. Lady Peckover
remained in the same situation of half-remorseful
affection. It was maddening !

*' I looked round. Good Heavens ! We
were leaving the island fast now, and there

was nothing but open sea before us. There
were yachts about us ; but I did not know
what were the orthodox signals of distress,
and the people on board them only grinned
and waved their handkerchiefs back again
in answer to my frantic demonstrations.

*' On ! on ! I don't know how many
hours I had sat there in stony despair,
when I became aware that Lady Peckover
had risen and was searching about for something.


*' 'I am*hungry, John,' she said.

•*' Hungry! That she could be hungry
under such circumstances !

"^I suppose you brought something?
Where are we going to, John ?'

** At any other time the way she nestled to
my side would have filled me with delight.
Not now.

' Going to ?' I replied, gloomily. * Going
to be drowned, I think.'

*' ' Oh, I hope not ! You manage the
boat so beautifully. Let me see, France

VOL. III. K

will be the first land if we keep on as weare.
Perhaps you are right, dear. France
will be best. But have you brought anything
to eat ?'

Under the seat she found a Strasbourg
pie and a bottle of champagne ; and, to my
extreme wonderment, proceeded in the
most business-like manner to discuss these
delicacies.

^' ' Do have some, John, you will want
keeping up ; we have much before us, you
know.' 4

Before us ! Yes, there was the open
sea, death by drowning, death by starving,
death from thirst ; and, besides, there was
that other horror which she had hinted at,
but which I steadily refused to entertain.
The wind did not seem to have at all
abated. An occasional wave curled close
up behind us, and seemed about to swallow
us up. Every time T tried to bring the
boat round she simply lay down on her
side, and I was only too thankful to put

her before the wind aorain. Fearful as thos



IS

involuntary flight was, it seemed in some
degree better than being drowned at
once.

' Don't be so melancholy, John. You
are all I have now, you know.'

' All you have ?' I stammered. ' Why,
this little accident, if we can get anywhere,
will easily be explained to Sir Henry,
and '

*' ' Oh, you don't know Sir Henry,' she
said, opening her big eyes to their full
extent, and laying her head on my
shoulder. ' He is perfectly fearful when
jealous, and now — what is the good of disguising
it ? — we have run away, John, you
know.'

'The boat has run away, you mean.'

' Do you think he will ever believe
that? Do you think anyone will ever
believe it ? No, no, John ! It is done.
I am ruined — and for you.'

"She looked up into my face as she said

R 2

this, with her lips not six inches from mine
and had not a bigger wave than usual come
curling right upon us, as it seemed, I don't
know what might have happened.

"'He has suspected us for some time,"
she went on, when the wave had been surmounted
; ' and I have daily been expecting
an explosion.'

"I thought of the way in which he had
left us together — of Ascot, of Goodwood, of
Scotland, of our common sitting-room at the
hotel at Cowes — but who in such a position
as mine could argue the point ?

' I do trust you won't fight, John ! No
one fights about these things now-a-days,
and Sir Henry can't be so unreasonable.
Where shall we live till — I mean, at first ?'

I was exasperated, as well I might be.

'' *Look here, Nelly, this is all nonsense.
You know as well as I do that this is the
merest accident. If we ever get safely to
shore it will, of course, be explained,
and '

* No, John, no ! Don't deceive yourself.
/ at least am ruined, but perhaps you
will desert nie — perhaps, having taken from
me my home, my character, my husband,
everything — you will leave me to starve
upon a foreign shore !' And she burst
into tears, with her head upon my shoulder.

'what could I do but console her?
What could anyone else in my place have
done ? It was a situation absolutely unique.,
I defy you or anyone to produce a fellow
to it. Well — I put one arm round her
waist, grasping the tiller with my right hand,
and soon she went to sleep, and I got the
cramp in my arm ; and the night came on,
and the stars came out and seemed to be
looking down upon me with derision ; I
thought I discovered a grin even in the face
of the moon; and still on — on went the
accursed boat, With its load of very innocent
crime.

'*T don't think I ever thought so much as
I did through that long night ; and I will

confess to you that as I found the waves did
not engulph us, and the wind did not grow
stronger, I began to feel a slightly satisfactory
heroic glow. Alone on the broad
ocean with a lovely woman confiding herself
to me with such sweet candour ; all —
our safety, our future — depending on nie
alone ; with an angry husband in the
distance, and a vision of pistols and manslaughter
in the future — yes ; there was no
doubt about it — I was a hero ! There was
something rather fine, too, I couldn't help
thinking, in an elopement by Una-boat — unusual,
unhackneyed, romantic. So, giving
myself up to such thoughts, I had nearly
fallen asleep when a peculiar noise roused
me, and, looking up, I found we were close
to a large steamer, which was indeed rapidly
catching us up.

'* Quietly removing my arm from its imprisonment
by Lady Peckover, I, impelled
by a happy thought, undid every rope I
could see, and, as I had hoped, down came

our sail. I should have done this before
but that the incident of the top-mast falling
had alarmed me as to the possible consequences.
Now, however, with assistance
close at hand, I determined to venture it,
and with complete success. Then, standing
up, I shouted at the top of my voice for
help.

The steamer slackened her speed, then
stopped.

' What do you want?' hailed a man on
the bridge.

'* * To be taken on board !' I shouted in *
return.

' Oh, John,' said Lady Peckover in
my ear, ' is this wise ? Suppose Sir Henry
is on board ?'

"all right?' hailed the man on the
steamer. ' I'll send a boat.'

"And in a few minutes we were ascending
the good ship's side.

' Do you want your boat taken in tow?'
asked a man on deck.

^No !' 1 exclaimed, with a sudden access
of fury. ' Let her go where she likes —
leave her to find her own way home.'

'' The men. on deck looked at me in
some surprise, but did not obey my order ;
and I had the pleasure of seeing the boat
following in our wake, like Care (painted
white for the occasion) pursuing the unfortunate
horseman.

"the lady — your wife — would like a
cabin ?'

'The lady is not my wife,' I answered,
not heeding the significant look of Lady
Peckover ; ' but she would like a cabin.
We were blown out to sea accidentally from
Cowes, and want to get back there as
soon as possible, please.'

'^ ' Well, you'll be able to catch tomorrow's
boat from Havre to Southampton.'

' Havre ! Are you going there ?' I
asked, aghast.

*' ' Yes, sir.' And I saw the man smile at
his fellows as I had seen him do when I

mentioned our blowing out to sea. ' Hope
that'll suit you and your— and the lady.'

They all believed it was an elopement.
I saw that at a glance. If these unsuspicious
mariners were so ready to think this, what
could I expect of the censorious world of
fashion ?

"I groaned, and Lady Peckover, after
an affectionate look at me, retired to a
cabin.

V.

Arrived at Havre," went on Harding,
after another pu]] at the cognac and syphon,
'* my embarrassments in consequence of our
equivocal position were legion. The waiters
at the hotel to which we went seemed to be
in a conspiracy to mistake Lady Peckover
for my wife ; and the arrangements as to
rooms, &c., were enough to have made
more brazen men than I am blush.

What a day we spent ! She went out

shopping, and provided herself with a most
extensive assortment of clothes, for, said
she, ' Perhaps it would be as well not to
send to Sir Henry for my things yet.' I
wrote the beginning of ever so many letters
to that gentleman, but always tore them
up ; and you will allow that the task of
writing to him was a difficult one. I wanted
to telegraph, but she would not let me, saying
it would be better to wait at least
twenty-four hours and see what happened.
1 was quite astounded by the calm way in
which she took it all, just as if she were
accustomed to elope once a week.

"At last the day ended, and Lady Peck-over
— tired out by shopping and sightseeing,
for she had insisted on 'doing'
Havre thoroughly — went to her room, and
left me gloomily sipping my glass in the
dreary hotel smoking-room. I still felt as
if I were in a dreadful dream, and should
wake soon to find myself in my room at
Cowes. That I had really committed myself

in the manner so easily taken for
granted by Lady Peckover I could not
bring myself to believe. What should I
do ? Something whispered in my ear,
Fly !' And yet there was something very
exquisitely — pleasant in being the protector
of such a lovely woman, whom I had
so long proudly worshipped at a respectful
distance. As I sat revolving these matters
in my mind the door opened, and there
entered no less a person than Sir Henry
himself.

I started up — not quite knowing what I
did — and put myself in what I believed to
be a good posture for defence. But Sir
Henry did not fly at my throat, as I expected.
He stood looking at me silently
for a few moments, and then — burst out
laughing.

"I laughed too— half nervously — and
our combined laughter made the glasses
shake.

' Fm so glad you've come, Sir Henry I

said, at length ; ^ it puts an end to much
inconvenience. It was a most ridiculous
accident — was it not ? — being blown out to
sea like that ; but now you've come it is all
right. Lady Peckover was tired, and has
gone to her room. I'll ring for the waiter
to show it you. It's Number '

' Mr. Harding,' said Sir Henry, all his
laughter having gone now, * your levity is
ill-timed, and your excuses are, in fact,
bosh. You've run away with my vvrife, sir ;
but, by Gad ! I can't help laughing to think
of your infernal cunning — devilish it was,
in point of fact ! Just while I ran back to
get my coat you got Alan out of the boat,
and were off. By Jove ! it was the neatest

thing But of course you're aware of

the consequences?'

'ras he asked this, he became serious
again.

' Consequences ? I assure you, Sir
Henry, it was entirely an accident. The

boat ran away with us, till we were picked
up by the Havre steamer, and — and — we
were awaiting you at this hotel.'

' Do you think I'm a fool, Mr. Harding ?
No, sir ! You have chosen to take my-lady
you may keep her. I wish you joy of
your bargain. You're rich, and perhaps
you will be able to satisfy her. As to your
excuses, you have gone off with her in a
boat, been with her in a steamer, stayed
with her in an hotel. I only came over to
make sure, and have my evidence correct.
I suppose T ought to have a shot at you,
but, by Gad, sir, I feel more inclined to give
you a testimonial. There isn't anything of
mine that you could have taken and been
so welcome. I wish you joy, Mr. Don
Juan Harding. You will hear from my
lawyer shortly. Good evening.' And before
I could speak again he had departed,
with a sardonic smile on his face that electrified
me.

Before I had recovered, a waiter came
in with a message from ' Madame to the
effect that she wished to speak to me.

' Where is that gentleman who just left
the room ?' I cried.

' The gentleman who arrived by this
evening's boat, and has been making inquiries
at the hotel — of the waiters and
-concierge ? Ah, that gentleman has just
gone to the train for Paris.'

"There was no time to lose. I made up
my mind with the rapidity of lightning. I
put money for the hotel bill, and with a good
margin, into an envelope, and with it a bit
of paper with the words ' Good-bye, write
and explain it all to your husband,' and left
it at the office, to be delivered next morning
to the lady in No. 27. I sauntered
quietly out into the moonlight, remarking
to the hotel-keeper, who was smoking a
pipe outside, that I should take a stroll
before going to bed. Once out of his sight,
I flew through the deserted streets out of

the town, and eventually came to a small
country station. There I took the first
train inland that came by — I forget where
it went — and have been wandering: ever
since. No letters have reached me, for I
have given my address to no one, and by
avoiding frequented places I have met no
one 1 knew till yesterday. And you say
that the Peckovers have come together
again ?

Most certainly they have," I replied.
** They have a charming house in Park Lane,
and Lord Woodbury is a great friend of — of
them both."

By Jove !" exclaimed Harding, throwing
away the end of his cigar, " it makes
another man of me to hear it. By Jove,
old fellow, I think I'll go back to England
tomorrow !"

A VERY STRANGE STORY.

VOL. III.

THE LOST LADY,

T WAS sitting one December afternoon in
-■- the smoking-room of my club, in that
meditative smoky state which follows a
rather heavy luncheon, inclined to moralise,
inclined to wonder whether I had wisely
chosen my lot ; whether it was better to sit
here and listen to Old Nobbler's stories and
Old Cobbler's snores, with the prospect of
nothing better than dinner downstairs, with
Cobbler abusing the waiter on one side of
me, and Wobbler eating and drinking himself
slowly to death on the other, than to
be surrounded by the bright faces and
prattle of an infant tribe in a house of one's

sown,

domestic happiness tempered, perhaps,
by the sharp tongue of a shrewish wife, or
the disagreeable calls of a milliner's " collector."
Were the men whom I had so
long pitied, who were wont to look into the
club of an afternoon, anxiously collecting
scandal, or who were called for by high-courage
women in barouches and whisked
home to dress for a bad dinner, an enviable
race after all; and was I, the old bachelor,
whose associations were all of the club
chubby, the creature deserving of pity ?
There was fog outside, and even inside the
room a yellow vapour hovered. Whether
it was that I had had a glass too much or a
glass too little sherry I do not know ; certain
it is that I felt low and hipped, and for
the moment hated Nobler and Cobbler,
Wobbler and Cobbler, detested myself, and
loathed even my favourite arm-chair.

I have written this to explain how it was
that when a letter was put into my hand
inviting me to spend my Christmas at

Saxworth Castle, I determined to break
through for once ray invariable custom of
dining alone, with two candles and a French
novel, on that festive occasion, and to accept
my young kinsman's invitation.

George Le Roy, of Saxworth — the kinsman
in question — was a lucky young man, who
had been brought up as destined to scrape
through life as best he could on some £200
a year, besides his army pay, and who had
been informed one fine morning, when
soldiering at Fyzabad, that by the unexpected
death of a cousin he had become possessed
of the Saxworth estate — a nice little
£30,000 a year — and one of the finest old
castles in England. There is no room here
for me to go into the Le Roy pedigree, but
I may as well say that the family, with
which I who write am closely connected,
.gave way to none in the matter of ancient
honour.

When William the Conqueror— but there
.is not room for me to tell you of our family.

I will write its history some day, and you
shall purchase a copy at fifty-two shillings.
Of the party who were assembled at
Saxworth when I arrived there one bitter
evening, after an excruciating drive of six
miles along a rutty road, I need only
trouble you, kind reader, with a partial
description.

First of all, George Le Roy, gay and
handsome, only a little older and more
manly than when I saw him last, flushed
with exertion and victory, stepping out of
the Oxbridge eight at Putney ; bronzed a
little by Indian suns ; a larger moustache on
his upper lip ; but the same boyish, hearty
manner; the same mischievous smile and
winning way.

There had been a bit of romance about
him just before starting for India, I
remembered; indeed, he exchanged his
regiment so as to get away. Poor little
Julie de Renan ! She^would have made a
pretty mistress of Saxworth, and that artful

old schemer, Madame la Comtesse de
Renan knee Rugby), must be gnashing her
sham teeth now, I thought to myself, at
the mistake — certainly rather a natural one
that she had made. Lord Huntington,
for whose coronet George Le Roy had been
jilted, could scarcely have one half of
George's income; and although certainly
Julie was now a baroness, and had a crown
on her pocket-handkerchiefs, still everyone
knew perfectly well that George had
only to ask it of the Government to obtain
the restoration to his family of their ancient*
Earldoms of St. Nets and Buckworth,
forfeited in the old times for too much
loyalty. And, having a particular dislike
to Madame la Comtesse, I rather
chuckled to myself over the old lady's
discomfiture, and was in consequence a little
taken aback when the first person I
encountered in the drawing-room, to which
I was conducted on arrival, was that very
person. However, she was very gracious ;

gave me a cup of tepid tea, informed me
who was staying in the house, and told me
that at that moment they were all in the
billiard-room, where a grand match was
being played between George (with one
hand) and Lady Huntington.

"And is Lord Hummimyton here?" I

o

asked.

*' Oh, yes ; dear Alfred is here. A little
fussy, but getting on very well with Mr.
Le Roy, I am glad to say."

I do not know what made me wonder at
that moment whether Lord Huntington
knew of the little romance that had preceded
his marriage ; but I am perfectly certain
that the same subject occupied Madame
de Renan's mind at the same moment,
unsympathetic to each other as we
were.

I am — as I think I have before told you
an old fellow, and was rather knocked up
by the journey, so I did not join the others
in the billiard-room, but went up to my

room for forty winks ; from which I was
awaked bj the hearty greeting of my young
host, whom I have, in some degree, already
described.

In the drawing-room before dinner I was
introduced to Lady Hummington — for of
course she had forgotten me — and, sitting
opposite her at dinner, I had a good opportunity
for satisfying my curiosity as to
whether her looks had carried out the
promise of her early youth. Yes ; she was
lovelier than ever. The shade of sadness
I could trace suited her better, I thought,
than the careless gaiety of her younger days,
when half the young men in London raved
of her, and her manner had gained by
knowledge, of the world without losing its
charming freshness. She sat next to George,
but I remarked that they exchanged but
few words, and those as if under restraint.
Her face was so exquisite that I could not
help watching her ; and, indeed, I missed a
cliaud'froid de cailks, which old Marylebone

afterwards told me was delicious, in my
absorption.

Lord Hummington seemed to share in my
fascination, for he, too, sat with his eyes
riveted on his wife's face. Madame de
Renan told me afterwards that this was not
love but jealousy, and that he was quite
mad in this particular.

'' Not that dear Julie has ever, or could
ever, give him the smallest cause, my dear Mr.
Meeting ; she was too well brought up —
not the least like the young women of the
period. But I assure you his absurd jealousy
is sometimes unbearable. In town she
can never see anyone when he is out of the
house. He will not hear of her going to
a party or ball without him, and once there
he never leaves her side. He drives with
her in the afternoon ; and, with the exception
of half an hour in a country house at
night, when he has to smoke his cigar with
the other men, and cannot take her with

him, I don't believe she is ever out of his
sight."

Lord Hummington was an elderly, red
man, with a bottle nose and the manners of
an Afghan — suspicious, proud, and violent,
I did not much envy Lady Hum milton's life,
if what her mother said were true ; and his
manner at dinner and in the drawing-room
afterwards certainly confirmed the story. It
was not for some time — indeed, when the
ladies' candles were being lit — that I had
an opportunity of talking to George Le
Roy.

"Lady Hummington is very beautiful,
George."

" Do you think so ? Yes, I think she is."
And not very happy, I should say."
Happy? No, I don't suppose she is."
There was a bitterness in his tone and in
the expression of his eyes as he glanced at
Hummington, then in the act of accompanying
his wife from the room, that convinced

me the old romance had not entirely died
out on his side, at any rate; on hers it
seemed wholly extinct.

'* Will you believe it," said Marylebone —
the elderly peer with the stays, a relative of
the Le Roys — "will you believe it? The
man actually reads all her letters — both
those she receives and those she writes. I
can't understand a handsome woman with a
spirit standing it as lie does ; and she certainly
has a spirit — you can see that in her
mouth. Old Hummington had better not
go too far, or "

The speech was left unfinished. Lord
Hummington came in at the moment.

As probably happened on the occasion of
every party at Saxworth, the conversation
soon turned upon the ghost.

No, I've never seen it," said George, in
answer to a question, " but I believe in it,
as a matter of course ; all Le Roys must.
In point of fact, it isn't often seen. The
odd thing is that it is supposed to have an

appetite, and a bottle of wine and some
plain dish are put every night in a certain
old cellar or dungeon. Each owner of
Saxworth leaves directions in his will as
to this, to which tradition attaches great-importance."


*' And are the things eaten and drunk ?"

'sometimes; superstitious people say by
the ghost, others say by some hungry servant.
I don't myself think many servants would
have the courage to face the old vaults-under
the Western Tower alone at night.
They certainly are rather ghostly. It is in
the Western Tower where the crime took:
place."

** What crime?" asked Hummington. He
was one of the few among us who did not
know the story of the Saxworth ghost.

Why," said George, opening a bottle of
soda-water, *' one of the old Le Roys — it
was the third Earl of Buckworth — was a
sad dog till he was old and ugly, and all
women turned from him. Well, the old

scoundrel took a fancy to the newly married
wife of one of his retainers. She treated
him with scorn. He got her somehow into
his power here, and the story goes that he
slowly starved her to death, food being
placed just out of her reach, which she
might have had by saying ^ Yes.' However,
she was a good-plucked one, and died saying
' No Then the husband kicked up a
row — which was natural enough, perhaps —
and managed to get into the Castle and use
fearful language to his Lordship, and was
hanged for his pains. But tradition says
that the husband's curse is still upon the
house, and that the spirit of the old Lord
(who died soon after, in his bed, with all
the offices of the Church) will never rest,
but prowls about in human form, vainly
striving to decoy imaginary maidens into
the vaults of the Western Tower. The
tradition goes on to say that at periods of
a hundred years he can actually succeed,
and that — this is the odd part of the whole

thing — in 1778 a woman did actually disappear
from this house, and was never heard
of again. I have often tried to get at the
truth of this, and I must say there is plenty
of evidence in support of it ; but of course
the ghost had nothing to do with it. She
was a beautiful maid-servant of rather
eccentric habits, and she probably ran away
somewhere with a lover. As to the other
case, some hundred years before that, it is
very vague, and I can't find out much about
it. It is a curious superstition, isn't it?"

"Most extraordinary," said Lord Hummington.


*' I met the procession with the food one
night," said one of the party, " when the
house was crammed, and I was in a room
down on the ground-floor of the Western
Tower."

Yes," said George, *' they always go in
fear and trembling, and I believe generally
take to running when they put the things
down. Of course," he went on, turning to

Lord Hummington, " you know the extra
window here is like that at Glacis
Castle ?"

'' I had heard of it — and so there is
one ?'' asked the other, rising with a glance
at the clock, and throwing his cigar into
the grate. *^ Very curious — devilish odd !
rd pull the place down to find it out if I
were you. Good night. By-the-by, I turn
to the left at the top of the stairs, don't

T r

"Let me see. Oh, yes. You're in the
Western Tower. Turn to the left, and go
down the Queen's Corridor, as it is called.
Good night."

They are in the Queen's Chambers,
then, are they ?" I asked, when the door
was shut.

Yes ; they were done up not long
ago, and are very comfortable now,
though it's almost the oldest part of the
house."

Very curious rooms those, with all sorts

of secret passages and staircases out of them,
if I recollect right ?"

But George had turned away to another
ground and was discussing fox-hunting with
much animation.

We were to have shot next day, but the
morning was so bad, with heavy snow falling,
that the idea was abandoned, and we
had to give ourselves up to a day in the
house. At this some of the men were very
much put out. Not so George, who seemed,
I thought, almost glad of it; he declared
he was much disappointed.

*' What are you doing — adding to a
song ?" I asked, looking over his shoulder.

^^No," he said, rather pettishly, I thought.
No, I was only scribbling on the music.
There, Lady Hummington is going to
sing. Do go and turn over the leaves for
her."

But I was not quick enough ; for when I
reached the piano her husband was planted
by her side, with the air of a showman

VOL. III. T

exhibiting his goods. And she certainly did
sing divinely.

At the end of her second song she left
the piano, saying laughingly that no one
should inflict more than two songs upon
people ; and as she approached the fire
George met her and asked her to sing a
song which he held in his hand.

She took it and glanced over it, and
then returned it, saying it was too difficult
for her to sing at sight.

May I look at that song, Mr. Le Roy ?"
said fussy Lord Hummington. ''I scarcely
see how anything could be too difficult for
Julie; and I like her to add to her
Te^pevtoire^ and he put out his hand to
take it.

George laughed and held the music-roll
behind his back. " No — no — my lord ; it's
only an amateur's attempt, and I can't have
it criticised by such a musician as you are.
I daresay her ladyship will try it some
other day, and then you can judge."

"I never knew you wrote music before,"
I said to him soon after, when all the others
had left the room on their way to play
billiards.

"No more I do. This was shocking
trash. I shall burn it;" and he flung it
into the fire and patted it down with the
poker.

So perish discord, consumed to the last
rag ! Come and play pool ! "

I do not know why I have put all this unimportant
matter down on paper. It maybe
that the most trivial circumstances of
that eventful day are so clearly stamped on
my mind ; and this happened to be the last
time I spoke to George before the catastrophe.


Well, we got through the day somehow,
and ate tremendous dinners at night, all
vowing that the want of exercise had
destroyed our appetites. By-and-by we
settled down into comfortable arm-chairs fora
good smoke.

Lord Hummington came down as usual
in his dressing-gown for his half-hour cigar,
and made himself as unpleasant as ever ;
so that a general sigh of relief broke
from us when the door closed on his
retiring form.

"Curious fellow, Hummington !"

Very curious — old, dry, and crusty."

"Do you know he is really mad?"

"Mad?"

Yes ; he has a monomania — the fear of
ridicule. I believe he will some day kill
his wife lest she should make him ridiculous,
and then kill himself for fear he has made
himself ridiculous."

He'd better begin by the last action.
I'm sure I'd certify it was a most sensible
deed."

Thus the ribald youngsters talked, when
a message, by a servant, came for George.
Then another message came for Marylebone,
who was a relation of the family, as I have
said; and at last, when we were a little

puzzled, I was sent for. I was conducted
to George's room, where he was accustomed
to receive his bailiff, stud-groom, keeper,
&c. And there I found George, Lord
Marylebone, Hummington, perfectly purple
in the face with excitement, and, to my
surprise, Madame de Renan, in a charming
deshabille ,

They were all talking together when I
entered. But my entrance caused a silence,
and Madame de Renan spoke —

''My dear sir, as an old friend of the
family and of George's, we have asked you
to come and help us in this difficulty. My
dear son-in-law left Julie in her room when
he went down to smoke at half-past ten ; at
eleven he returned, and she was not there.
It is now half-past twelve, and no trace of
her can be found. alfred is naturally very
much — amazed, and wishes us to search the
house; but it seems to us that such a
proceeding would be very— very imprudent.
We want your advice."

I care for no man's advice !" broke in
the husband. '' Every room in this cursed
house shall be ransacked at once !" He
made towards the door as if to begin at
once !

Ladies' rooms as well as men's ?" I
asked.

Every room."

"There might be some difficulty in that,
you see, my dear Lord Hummington, and
and — this is an immense house. Besides,
if you won't mind my saying it, wouldn't
such a proceeding as this tend to make you
a little "

•'A little what, sir?"

A little ridiculous in the eyes of the
world. It is a most mysterious, extraordinary
thing; and really. Lord Humming-ton,
disagreeable as suspense is, I think you
had better wait till morning. There may
then be an explanation. To lose oneself in
these long corridors is easy, and "

"There can be no explanation," thundered

Lord H., on whom, however, I could see
I had made an impression ; and eventually
it was agreed that we should bind ourselves
to secrecy, that in case Lady Hummington
did not turn up by morning we
should attribute it to illness, and that in the
meanwhile every outlet to the Castle
should be watched, and that on some pretext
or other a thorough search of the
whole house should be made after breakfast.


I thought poor George looked fagged
and Worried, and indeed it was very unpleasant
for him to have such a thing
happen in his own house.

Do you believe in ghosts ?" he asked
Madame de Renan, before we separated.

'' Ghosts ?— no. Yet stay ! Can it be—
Bah ! what a fool I am !"

'' I don't know," said George, shaking his
head, gloomily ; " I don't know. We are an
accursed race, you know."

And as I tumbled about on my pillow

that night his words seemed to ring in my
ears, and I felt more superstitious than I
had ever felt before in my life.

I should weary you did I tell of the
dreadful four days we spent, incessantly
searching, but searching in vain. Lord
Harrington, in his fury, his half-developed
superstition, and his anxiety to keep the
state of things secret from the rest of the
party, nearly went stark, staring mad. One
thing we had ascertained for certain : not a
soul had left the Castle the night of Julie's
disappearance. There had been a heavy
fall of snow at 9.30, and no footmark was
on it. The other guests shot and hunted.
There was nothing odd in two old buffers
like Marylebone and myself staying at home,
and George excused himself on the plea of
illness, and indeed he appeared to be quite
worn-out. I saw very little of him, for, ashe
told me, he was constantly searching
about the house and grounds. One night,

indeed, I went to his room at a very late
hour, being restless and wakeful, and he
was not there. He told me that he searched
when we were all in bed, and it was quite
evident to me that this dreadful disappearance
of the poor lady had roused anew the
old feeling: in his heart. That this should
happen in Ms house to her ! Yes, I could
quite sympathise with his feelings, though I
grew alarmed for his health.

Do not do so much," I urged ; " at least,
stay quiet in bed at night."

But he was stubborn, and entirely refused
to cease a search that seemed almost hopeless.

It was on the Tuesday, I remember (the
occurrence having been on the Friday), that
Marylebone and I agreed that it would no
longer do to defer to Lord Hummington's
fear of ridicule. It was too serious for that.
The police would not believe in any ghost ;
and here was the plain fact that a lady had
utterly disappeared. The thing must be

made public. George agreed with us ; and
eventually Lord H. consented that one of
us should go to town next morning and seek
counsel at Scotland Yard. In my opinion,
his lordship cared far more for his own
position and dignity than for his pretty lost
wife.

And now comes the end of my strange
tale.

Again the scene is the smoking-room.
Again messages for George, Marylebone,
and myself are sent (after Lord H. has had
his cigar, for he keeps up this custom to
divert suspicion) ; this time again we meet
in George's room ; Madame de Renan being
there, and Lord Hummington in a state of
wild excitement.

'' She is found !"

'^ Found ?" we all cry in a breath.

"Yes — she — "but his lordship is literally
too excited to speak.

"When Alfred went up to bed after
smoking," said Madame de Renan, in rather

awe-struck tones, " he found lier in exactly
the same peignoir he had left her in on
Friday night — lying asleep on the sofa. He
woke her, and she simply said, ' Oh, it's you,
dear — how long you have been ! I suppose
I've been asleep.' Isn't it extraordinary ?"
The poor woman's voice shook, and I own
to a creepy feeling coming over me.

"Horrible!" ejaculated George, as white
as a sheet of paper. 'then Alfred told
her, and — — "

'then I told her," broke in his lordship,
in a shaking voice, too, " and — perhaps I
ought not to have — it has almost frightened
her to death, though at first she was furious
with me for telling her such lies, as she
called them; and then she had hysterics,
and — no wonder — no wonder — for it is
most fearful."

And we actually saw tears in Humming-ton's
eyes.

'' Poor child," said old Marylebone, rather
huskily, too ; " she will get over it ; but we

must be careful with her, or her mind might
go."

''"We must indeed; in the power of a
supernatural being for four days — oh, my
God !" cried the poor mother.

Then my club common sense (commonsense
is manufactured in a club smoking-room)
came to my aid, and I said —

My dear friends, will you let me give
my advice ? "When she recovers from the
effects of the alarm our poor friend Hummington
so naturally, but so injudiciously,
threw her into by telling her of the awful
and fearful mystery that she has, so to speak,
been in, let her think, as she thought when
she first woke, that nothing has happened —
that the days have not elapsed. Probably,
like most women, she knows little or nothing
of time or space. It may possibly be
done, and, if it did succeed, her mind would
be at ease. Otherwise "

'she would live a life of agony and fear,

and end by going mad. It must be tried,"
said Madame de Renan.

Suffice it to say that it was tried, and that
it entirely succeeded. Julie Hummington
knew and cared less than even most women
for time and space, I suppose ; for the cutting
out of five whole days from her calendar
seemed to make no difference to her ;
and when she went away, which she did
with her husband next day — for he naturally
would not trust her in the haunted Castle —
although she looked pale and tired, there
was no longer any danger to her mind.

I have often tried to talk the matter over
with George since ; but he always turns
the conversation, and Madame de Renan is
downright rude to me on the subject, and
has gone the length of calling me a gossip,
as if one could gossip about a ghost. As an
authenticated ghost story, and as bearing out
the traditions of the Le Roys and of their
Castle, its relation cannot fail to be interesting,

for the psychological problem it raises
is of the most intense importance. I do not
pretend to explain it. I do not even ask
the reader to believe in the supernatural,
as I did henceforth. I only tell, as plainly
and simply as I can, my true tale of the
Lost Lady.

THE ACE OF SPADES.

TT was towards the end of the season.
-■- Lady Leamington's ball had been an
excellent one, and I, although somewhat
tired of such things, had enjoyed myself
mightily. I forget exactly why, but I suppose
I met the right person or persons. I
had been pleased, too, to meet my old
friend, Tom Arthurss, whom I had not seen
for an age, and whose bright face brought
back to me the happy days when I was as
all these whiskered, eager youths, and
roved from partner to partner like a bee
from flower to flower. The honey had been
very sweet in those days, and the flowers
VOL. HI. u

gave it prettily and so readily. Of all of
them, perhaps, I had never admired any so
much as sweet Blanche Morton, now Countess
of Leamington, and my hostess. She
was certainly by far the handsomest girl of
her year, and no one was much surprised
when Leamington, the parti of the season,
had laid his many-acred coronet at her feet,
as the penny-a-liners say. But some people
myself among the number — were rather
astonished at her picking up the said coronet
so unhesitatingly. It was no secret that
Algy Hambermere adored her, and he was
scarcely the man to adore in vain. But she
was ambitious.

The wedding duly came off, and soon
after we, hearing the sad story of Algy's
downfall, acknowledged the wisdom of her
conduct. Before this event, however, there
had been whispers that Algy had not
entirely relinquished his love when she
changed her name ; and one or two
travellers returning from Paris, where the

Leamington had a charming hotel near the
Champs Elysees, declared that things did
not look bright for the menage. However,
the crash came which struck off the roll of
Society one of its most popular members.
Algy Hambermere disappeared for ever,
and from that day till now there had been
no breath of scandal on Lady Leamington's
fair fame. I often wondered how she
managed to get on so well with such an ill-tempered,
jealous creature as her husband,
but at any rate she did seem to pull with
him wonderfully, and the world — our worlds
universally agreed that Lady Leamington
was a perfect specimen of a beautiful irreproachable
British matron.

To see her in her barouche, and surrounded
by lovely children, drive down the Park,
was really a pleasant sight; and if she
appeared sometimes a trifle haggard and
worn ; if in moments of repose a look of
weariness, almost of despair, would steal
across those classical features, it was only

u2

sentimental donkeys like myself, who had
tender reminiscences of the past, who
noticed them, or put them down to anything
but physical exhaustion, or perhaps indigestion.


As I stood pondering these things Tom
Arthurss, having just put a Dowager into her
carriage, appeared at my side.

Well, are you ever going home ? I
suppose you live at the old place ? I'm
close by. It's a charming morning. Let
us walk. I have plenty to say to you."

Cigars were lit, and in the fresh dawn of
morning we set off. There was a mile and
a half to traverse, and years of 'told times"
to be talked over.

But Tom appeared to have something on
his mind, and scarcely entered into the
spirit of my recollections of old jokes, old
dinners, old loves, old sport, and "ancient
runs devoid of truth."

How handsome Lady Leamington is !"
I hazarded.

"Handsome? Yes; I suppose she is.
But I can't bear the sight of her. Charlie,
old chap, I was going to tell you of it all
tomorrow; but I don't see why I shouldn't
now."

Go ahead," said I.

It's the most curious, saddest story I
ever had to tell."

Get it over, then ; I hate sad stories."

Do your remember poor Algy Chambers
?"

"Remember him? Poor old Algy ; my
greatest friend once. Why couldn't he keep
straight ! Have you heard of him ?"

I have. But I had better begin at the
beginning. No, my good woman, I have
nothing for you. There — don't spend it in
gin. Look at that woman — that poor
draggled painted wretch, Charlie — I'll wager
she's a better, honest, nobler woman at
heart than that splendid lady whose ball we
have just been to."

I was so surprised at his words and

his vehemence that I could only ejaculate,
*eh?"

"Yes. Well, here goes. You know-that
when Leamington proposed to Blanche
Morton — with whom we were all rather
in love — she was in a kind of way engaged
toAlgy?"

'' I knew there was something between
them."

*' There was a great deal more than I
suspected then. But she was too ambitious.
He was old Sir Throckmorton's eldest son,
it is true ; but the estates were small and
were not entailed, and Algy was a reckless,
gambling chap. No doubt she did the
prudent thing. But it nearly drove Algy
mad with grief, and it made horn more reckless
than before. After the honeymoon the
Leamington went to Paris, and somehow
or other Algy found himself there too, and
soon, against his will, got into the habit of
dropping into their house. He thought,
like an ass, that he was strong enough to

meet her and ignore the past. Perhaps she
thought so too^God forgive her — God forgive
her !"

His eyes filled with tears as he spoke.

Why— what "

Don't interrupt me, old chap ; let me
tell it my own way. Only if you had seen
what I saw only the other day ! Well, they
drifted — he and Lady Leamington — into
that sort of friendship which is so dangerous
when a warmer feeling has existed — •
nay, exists still, for the Marriage Service
cannot work a miracle. I honestly believe '
that Algy did his best to fight against it,
but you remember how beautiful, how
seductive she was ; and I fancy what she
had of heart was given to Algy. Leamington
at that time was fond only of two things
drinking and play; and, besides this, he
suspected, with reason enough, that love
was not the motive that had caused his wife
to accept that high position. Of course he
knew all about the affair between her and

Algy, but he didn't in any way set himself
against the renewal of the acquaintance. I
can't make out quite what he wanted —
whether he would really have got rid of
her if he could, or whether he only wished
to find out enough to put her in his power
and make him free to go his own way.
But certain it is that he watched and waited
while Algy got deeper and deeper into the
mire, and while people in Paris — who are
not particular — made jokes about the cava-here
servant that la belle Comtesse had so
quickly set up. My idea is that he had
conceived a sort of drunken hatred to her,
and all he wanted was an esclandre which
should entirely ruin her for ever. Then
she told Algy of his ill-treatment of her ;
there was a bruise to be explained, and
sometimes there were oaths and coarse expressions
used before strangers. Pity came
in to add to the force of love. I don't
wonder at anything when I think of it all.
Poor Algy !"

He sighed, lit his cigar, which had gone
out, and resumed —

"Leamington, not content with the play
at the Club, used to have kate and baccarat
parties at his own house ; and Algy always
attended these functions. I daresay you

know that at the Club the cards, after

being very little used, become the perquisites
of the waiters, and they sell them
privately to the members. They have the
Club arms on the back.

'* Well, Algy had been having, at the
time I speak of, a most wonderful run of
luck at ecarte, Kinsjs came to his rescue as
if by magic, and in about four days' play he
had won something like three thousand
pounds, most of it from Leamington himself
Now, as you know, Leamington, having
forty thousand a year, can't lose money like
a gentleman, and he was furious ; and hinted,
not in Algy's hearing you may be sure, that
there was something wrong.

'wrong or not, the luck continued.

Algy, who was always on the wrong side
of his banker's account, and who had had
I remember it well, for I plunged and
lost that year too — a shocking racing
season, was in great feather, and ready to
back himself for any amount. Then came
the fatal evening we all heard about "

When he was caught cheating," I
put in.

Wait a bit, I must go back in my story.
It appears that Leamington had been
treating his wife worse than usual — had
driven past her in the Bois and sat opposite
her at the Opera with-r-with some one else ;
some one very notorious — and the poor
woman was in a dreadful state. She was
afraid of him, too ; for when he had lost at
the Club, or had drunk more than usual,
he was very violent. Altogether, I don't
think one can blame Algy so very much for
speaking. You see, the poor devil was
madly in love with her. Anyhow, he did
speak ; and, as far as I can gather, she

repulsed him in a sort of half-hearted
way that meant very little. Certain is it
that he didn't cease coming to their house
he was quite the ami de la maison — and
seeing a good deal more of Leamington's
brutality and her sufferings. Mind, I don't
excuse him ; for I never was one of those
fellows who follow the fashion in morality
any more than I do in the cut of my coat ;
but I think you must allow that there
were excuses to be made. Algy was always

a soft-hearted fellow, and always a reckless



one. Of course you can guess what he
proposed. He was not the man to eat the
other's bread and sit in his company while
he was deceiving him in such a matter. He
wanted to go. The question he put to her
was this : ' Is your life with your husband
more bearable than your life ostracised
from your world, but with me to love and
protect you, would be ?' And it was a question
that Blanche Leamington found it difficult
to answer. She had been a spoiled child .

and this roughness, and insult were a new
experience to her. She revolted against it,
and I do believe that the woman had some
heart — that she was really fond of

Algy.

"Well, I'm rather long-winded. But I
want you to understand exactly how matters
stood when the eventful evening came.

"Lady Leamington, with some friends,
among whom was Algy, had been to the
Francis to see a new piece, and again,
opposite to them and apparently glorying in
his defiance of decency, was his Lordship
with the — other person. His wife caught
a smile and a sneer or two on the faces of
the others, and also saw Algv's face of
devotion and pity, and when she reached
home — not having had the opportunity
of exchanging a word with the latter
she had made up her mind. There
was to be a card party at their house
later on, and Algy walked there with an
old friend, Delacroix, whom I daresay you

have met— the perfection of a French
gentleman. He had marked Lady Leamington's
and Algy's faces at the theatre, and
had taken some trouble to have a tete-astute
with him.

"As they walked along—just as you and
I are doing now — he spoke out as a man
should have spoken. As far as I can
remember what Algy told me, these were
his words. I am telling you it all just as
Algy told it to me not five days ago.

'' ' You are on the brink of doing a terrible
thing, mon ami,' he said ; and Algy did*
not resent his words. No one ever could
think old Delacroix meant to be impertinent.
' Do not do it. It may seem almost
a necessity now ; but think of your future
lives. I grant the man is a brute ; but think,
Algy, of what the life of a proud, sensitive
woman must be when she has forfeited all
that makes life worth having for her. " Your
love." Think of the day when she remembers
what that love has cost harsher

friends, her position, her honour, her good
name, her fortune. And love does not last,
ray friend — not unless it is backed by respect,
and you could not respect a woman
who '

' Stop, Delacroix !' Algy said, almost
choking ; ' you scarcely know all — you do
not know what she suffers. I should always
reverence her — should make her life bright
in spite of all.'

"'Do you know her? What are her
chief pleasures ? Is she not fond of society
of her position? If not, why did she
marry this man ? Why did she not marry
you whom she loves? Do you think her
whole nature is changed because he is a
brute; because just now she is miserable and
you are by? Do your duty, Algerian
Hambermere. Seem cruel, if necessary,
only to be kind. Go, and do not see her
again till the madness has passed away.
She has friends and relatives who can protect
her from him if he grows worse, whose

interference can do no harm. I will charge

CI

myself with that duty, which ray age would
enable me to perform. For her sake — for
her sake only — go.'

He said much more to the same effect,
and Algy was profoundly touched. His
eyes were opened to the madness of what
he had contemplated, and he thanked Delacroix
for his frank speaking. Then Delacroix
begf^jed him not even to see her once

DO

more.

' I must go there to-night,' said Algy,
for I promised the man his revenge. You *
know I have won a lot of money from him
of late.'

' What does it matter ? He is rich.'

' I must give him his revenge. I have
promised.'

And so they parted at the door of the
Jockey Club. And Algy went on— to his
doom.

"When he entered the room they had
already begun to play, and Algy, putting

down some money on the side opposed to
Lord Leamington, looked on for a time.
Some cards that were not in use lay on a
table near ; and he saw Lady Leamington
take up one of them and turn away. He
fancied also that her husband, who was
playing, saw the action. The game came
to an end.

"'Oh, here's Algy,' said one of them.
Brought your usual luck with you, I hope.
Sit down. I'll back you'

Lord Leamington, who had won the
last game, remained seated, glaring first at
his wife and then at Algy. He had evidently
drunk quite enough, and seemed ina
bad temper even for him. Algy had
taken the seat vacated by the man who had
just lost the last game — it was ecarte — and
had dealt the cards and turned up a trump
hearts — when he became aware of Lady
Leamington passing him and gently touching
his sleeve as she dropped a card on the
chair. With the rapidity of lightning he

picked it up and put it — his hand still clasping
it — inside the breast of his waistcoat.
But not quite quick enough.

'lord Leamington rose, his eyes almost
starting out of his head.

' Show me that card !' he shouted.

"lord Leamington!' exclaimed Algy,
while they all jumped up in astonishment.


'^ ' Show that card ! Gentlemen, Captain
Hambermere has a card concealed in his
waistcoat. I accuse him of secreting a king.
Now we know where the luck comes
from.'

'^ There was that silence which means so
much ; all eyes were fixed on Algy. His
hand was still grasping the card. Could he
show it? He dared not turn round to see
Lady Leamington, who was behind him.
He remained silent.

^'Then a Frenchman spoke — a man of
whom he had won a good deal of money,
and who had only yesterday said he had

VOL. III. X

never seen a man hold the king so
often.

' If you have a card there you must
show it

"Lady Leamington had moved across
the room, so that Algy could see her face in
the glass. It was ashy pale, and he could
see her hand tremble. He made up his
mind.

' How do you know — why do you think
I have a card here ?'

' Because I saw it,' shouted Lord
Leamington.

' You must show it,' said another, very
gravely, for he thought — and not unnaturally
that Algy's hesitation must arise from
guilt.

'' ' I refuse !'

"- There was a kind of stifled sob from
the corner where Lady Leamington stood.
They were all too absorbed to notice it
except Algy, and his grasp on the card
tightened.

''^ You refuse!'

Even those who up to this hesitated to
believe in his guilt turned on him now.

' You must show it.'

'' ' I will not.'

"'Do you know,' asked the Frenchman
who had spoken before— 'do you know
what must be said of you if you do not show
this card?'

'' ' That you are a d d swindler !' put

in Lord Leamington, at the top of his
voice.

'see how the case lies,' went on the
Frenchman, calmly. ' Minor says he saw
you secrete a card ; he says your hand in
your waistcoat now holds it. He avers it is
the king of trumps '

"eyes; taken from another pack!'
shouted Lord Leamington.

' And you do not deny you have a card
there, and yet refuse to show it ! If you
don't show it I am bound to tell
you—'

x2

^ Well, sir ?' said poor Algy, looking
again at the white face in the mirror.

"that you are an escroc, and unfit for
the society of gentlemen !'

"Algy started forward; then restrained
himself, and said —

'' * I am ready to give you my word of
honour that, to my knowledge, the card I
have in my hand is not the king of trumps.
I give you my word I do not know what
the card is ; but I will not show it.'

The look of gratitude in Lady Leamington's
eyes almost repaid him for the
meaning glances of mingled scorn and pity
in the men's faces round him. There vas
a short pause. No one quite knew what
to say or do. At last Lord Leamington
burst out —

' And now, sir, that you have been convicted,
I shall beg you to leave my house,
and never re-enter it.'

Algy bowed his head. He scarcely
dared trust himself to look in the mirror

again ; but he felt that her eyes were still
fixed on him.

Old George Wayland, who had loved
Algy like a son, came forward, and, in a
broken voice said —

' I didn't think it of you, Algy. By God,
I didn't think it of you ! It cannot be.

Prove it's all a d d lie ! Show that

card !'

"He used stronger lanf^uaoje than he
should before a lady, but you see he was
very much moved. •

* I cannot,' said Algy, simply.

* You cannot !' and the old man's tone
changed. 'Then I have done with you.
Stay, sir. Before you go, let me say a few
words. You are aware that this matter
cannot stop here ?'

"Algy inclined his head again.

'* ' You have probably enough self-respect
left to avoid forcing us to take steps against
you. You will at once remove your name
from all your Clubs. You will not attempt

to enter a gentleman's house. You will — '

' I will stay out of England always.'

They all turned, startled by a suppressed
shriek from Lady Leamington ; but her face
was calm — quite white, but calm — when she
turned to meet their gaze.

"Algy was moving to the door, when
Leamington stood in front of him.

"look here,' he said, catching at the
other's waistcoat. ' I've a curiosity to see
that card.'

Algy hurled the man across the room.

"hands off, my Lord!' he said, in a
voice of suppressed fury. ' If you touch me
I'll kill you ! Let me go !'

He looked round with an expression
that old Wayland always told me had
haunted him ever since — like that of a wild
animal trapped.

'let him go, Milord said the Frenchman,
in a quiet tone of scorn ; ' he may keep
his precious king. At least we have rid

Society of one scoundrel. Aliens ! Let us
play another game.'

"And Algy passed away out of the room,
out of the house, out of Society, out of even
the memories of his friends. They didn't
play another game, however, I believe, as
Lady Leamington, overcome by the heat
or something, happened to faint, and refused
to come to."

Good God !" I exclaimed, " and can nothing
be done ?"

"Nothing; it is too late for anything to
be done. And I am telling you this as his
friend. His father and sister and you are the
only people who are to know the truth."

"And how did you learn it?"

I have been travelling in France, as you
know, and wandering a good deal off the
beaten track, for I detest tourists. I came
last week to Cette — where I meant to take
ship for Marseilles, and so come gradually
home— and went to the ' Lion door' there.

The landlord seemed delighted when he
found I was an Englishman, and told nie
that a fellow-countryman was lying ill upstairs.
It was Algy. I never saw a man so
changed in all my life — worn to a shadow
and as grey as a man of seventy. Little of
his old good looks — and he was the best-looking
fellow I ever saw — left. He cried,
poor old chap, when I grasped his hand ;
and then he asked about Lady Leamington,
and then about you. ' He was my best pal,'
he said, ' and yet he believed I cheated at
cards.' I explained to him that after what
old Wayland told us there really was no
option. Then the doctor came in and said
he could scarcely live through the night,
and then he told me all I have told you.
His father, old Sir Throckmorton, allowed
him some wretched sum as long as he never
set foot in England. And he told me his
life had been very sad, and that he was
very glad to die. ' You see,' he said, ' I
couldn't put myself right without hurting

her, and I love her — yes, Tom, I love her
still I implored him to let me tell all his
old friends, but he restricted me to his father
and sister and you. 'The others oughtn't
believe me,' he said — he was getting very
feeble then — ' but I know Charlie will —
and the governor ought to — and Jennie —
she was so proud of me once. It was hard
to be ruined as I was — yet not hard either.
If you could only have seen Blanche's face
when I refused to show that card ! It would
have explained all to you. Thank God I
saved her !' "

We were standing outside the door of my
chambers now. The sun had risen well
above the horizon, and even London looked
beautiful in the fresh brightness of a new
day.

And to think," I said, " that that woman
can have lived on knowing all she has done !"

'' She certainly was not worthy of such an
affection as Algy's," said Tom; 'but I must
tell you the end. He slept a little at intervals

during the night, and he dreamed of the
old days. I could trace some of his ideas
when he talked in a sort of semi-sleeping
delirium. That night we — fresh from college
— took the knockers off. Then that
grand coup when he won the Liverpool Cup
with an outsider, and we were all on.
Then came that little fight outside Jemmy
Shaw's when we were all so nearly locked
up ; and then — it nearly broke my heart —
I heard interjections about his being cut— I
could see exactly what agony his life must
have been. How Jack Gillingham turned
his back on him here, and Harry Thornham
there. He must have suffered fearful tortures,
poor chap."

''I never cut him," I said.

"No, he told me he had only caught sight
of you twice since it all happened, and had
each time got out of the way lest you should
see him. He seemed very much relieved
when I told him I would tell you and the

Others the true story ; and then he implored
nie to be a friend to Lady Leamington."

D— n her !" I burst out.

"Exactly my feeling. But eventually 1
did promise. And at last, just as the light
of morning was coming in at the windows,
he fell asleep, one hand in mine — he had
declared it was such a pleasure to touch a
friend's hand again — with a smile on his
poor worn face, a smile which I expect had
not been there for many years. The people
of the inn told me that he had been there
several times before ; that he was supposed
to be a man with some cloud upon him, so
restless was he ; but that in the neighbouring
district, where he had managed to stay a
whole year, he was much beloved by the
poor people for his kindness and for the
little acts of generosity he did.

'Above all,' as the old landlord said to
nie, with a grand air, 'il etait gentilhomme'
So he was. No one could mistake Algy

Hambermere for anything but a gentleman.
Before they buried him I looked through
his papers. There were not many in the
desk — which I remembered in the old days
on his writing table in the Albany — and
only two of any interest to us. Here is
one."

He handed me an envelope addressed
To be sent after my death to my father,
Throckmorton Hambermere, Hambermere,
Cheshire, England ; or, in case of his death,
to " — mentioning me. I opened it. '' When
you read this I shall be dead, and can have
no further occasion to conceal the truth. I
solemnly swear to you that I have never in
my life cheated, or thought of cheating at
cards."

'' And the other ?" 1 said.

"Here it is." And Tom Arthurss handed
me a playing card, dirty and worn. It was
the ace of spades, and on its face I could
just decipher the words, in pencil, "My

darling. To-night. I can bear it no longer.
I will go."

You see the club arms at the back," said
Tom, taking back the card. '' The trumps
were hearts, you remember, and an ace at
ecarte isn't much good"'

Send that card to Lady Leamington !"
I exclaimed.

"I am going to give it her, that she may
destroy it, tomorrow. He has guarded the
secret well. Poor Algy !"

THE END.

LONDON : PRINTED BT DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM House.

MESSRS. HURST Am Blackens

LIST O F NEW W Ores.
ROYAL WINDSOR. By W. Hepworth Dixon.

Second Edition. Volumes I. and II. Demy 8vo. SOs.

CONTENTS OF VOLS. I. AND Ils-Castle Hill, Norman Keep, First King's House

Lion Heart. Kingless Windsor, Windsor Won, Geoffrey Plantagenet, Windsor

Lost, The Fallen Deputy, The Queen Mother, Maud de Braose, The Barons'

War, Second King's House, Edward of Carnarvon, Pert de Gaston, Isabel

de France, Edward of Windsor, Crecy, Patron Saints. St. George, Society of

St. George, Lady Salisbury, David King of Scots, Third King's House, Ballad

Windsor, The Fair Countess Richard of Bordeaux, Court Parties. Royal Favourites,

Rehearsing for Windsor. In the Great Hall, Simon de Burley Radiate

Bridge, A Feast of Death, Geoffrey Chaucer, At Winchester Tower, St George's

Chapel, The Little Queen, At Windsor, Duchess Philippine, The Windsor Plot

Bolingbroke, Court of Chivalry, Wager of Battle, Captive Little Queen, A New'

Year's Plot, Night of the Kings, Dona Juan, Constance of York, The Norman

Tower, The Legal Heir, Prince Hal, The Devil's Tower, In Captivity Captive,

Attempt at Rescue, Agincourt, Kaiser Sigismund, The Witch Queen, Sweet

Kate, The Maid of Honour, Lady Jane, Henry of Windsor, Richard of York,

Two Duchesses, York and Lancaster, Union of the Roses.

' Royal Windsor ' follows in the same lines as ' Her Majesty's Tower,' and aima

at weaving a series of popular sketches of striking events which centre round

Windsor Castle. Mr. Dixon makes everything vivid and picturesque. Those who

liked 'Her Majesty's Tower' will find these volumes equally pleasant. "—4i/jen«M7«.

"A truly fine and interesting book. It is a valuable contribution to English

history; worthy of Mr. Dixon's fame, worthy of its grand subject." — Morning Post.

Mr. Dixon has supplied us with a highly entertaining book. ' Royal Windsor '

is eminently a popular work, bristling with anecdotes and amusing sketches of

historical characters. It is carefully written, and is exceedingly pleasant reading.

The story is brightly told ; not a dull page can be found." — Examiner.

These volumes will find favour with the widest circle of readers. From the first
days of Norman Windsor to the Plantagenet period Mr. Dixon tells the story o{ this
famous castle in his own picturesque, bright, and vigorous way"— Z)a% Telegraph.

"Mr. Hepworth Dixon has found a congenial subject in 'Royal Windsor.' Under
the sanction of the Queen, he has enjoyed exceptional opportunities of most
searching and complete investigation of the Royal House and every other part of
"Windsor Castle, in and out, above ground and below ground." — Daily News.

VOLS. III. AND IV. OF ROYAL WINDSOR. By

W. Hepworth Dixon. Second Edition. Demy 8vo. sos. Completing
the "Work.
CONTENTS OF VOLS. Il AND IV.— St. George's Hall, The Tudor Tower, A
Windsor Comedy, The Secret Room, Treaties of Windsor, The Private Stair,
Disgracing a Knight, In a King's House, The Maiden's Tower, Black Days,
The Virgin Bride, Elegy on Windsor, Fair Geraldine, Course of Song, Windsor
Gospeller, Windsor Martyrs, A Royal Reference, Hatchment Down, The
People's Friend, St. George's Enemy, Lady Elizabeth's Grace, Queen Mary,
Grand Master of St. George, Deanery and Dean, Sister Temperance, Elizabeth's
Lovers, Dudley Constable, The Schoolmaster, Peace, Proclaimed,
Shakespeare's Windsor, The Two Shakespeare, The Merry Wives, Good Queen
Bess, House of Stuart, The Little Parti, The Queen's Court, The King's
Knights Spurious Peace, King Christian, A Catholic Dean, Apostasy, Expulsion,
Forest Rights, Book of Sports, Windsor Cross, In the Forest, Windsor
Seized, Under the Keep, At Bay, Feudal Church, Roundheads, Cavalier
Prisoners, The New Model, Last Days of Royalty, Saints in Council, Changing
Sides, Earshot Lodge, Cutting Down, Windsor Uncrowned, A " Merry
Caesar Windsor Catholic, The Catastrophe, Domestic Life, Home.
readers of all classes will feel a genuine regret to think that these volumes
contain the last of Mr. Dixon's vivid and lively sketches of English history. His
hand retained its cunning to the last, and these volumes show an increase m force
and dignity"— Athenaeum. „„„„« ,•»

"Mr Dixon's is the picturesque way of writing history. Scene after scene i8
brought before us in the most effective way. His book is not only pleasant reading,
but full of information"— G'rai)/»c.



MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S

NEW WOMiS—Contmued,

MONSIEUR GUIZOT in Private Life (1787-

187-i). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mrs.
Simpson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. just Ready.)

TALES OF OUR GREAT FAMILIES. Second

Series. By Edward Walford, ]Mea., Author of " The County
Families," " Londoniana," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s. (Just
Ready.)

THE VILLAGE OF PALACES ; or, Chronicles of

Chelsea. By the Rev. A G. Estrange, Author of " The Life of
the Rev. W. Harness," &c. 2 vols crown 8vo. 21s.

"Mr. L'L'Estrange's volumes are a fair specimen of the popular books on antiquarian
matters which are constantly coming out. They are pleasantly written
und fairly interesting." — Athenaeum.

One of the best gossiping topography since Leigh Hunt's 'Old Court Suburb.'
So many persons of note have lived in Chelsea that a book far less carefully compiled
than this has been from historical records and traditions could not fail to be
amusing." — Daily Telegraph.

This is a work of light antiquarian, biographical, and historical gossip. Mr.
L'L'Estrange is inspired by interest in his subject. The names of Chelsea celebrities,
dead and living, including poets, novelists, historians, statesmen, and painters
will be found thickly clustering in these volumes, to which we refer the reader."
Daily News.

Every inhabitant of Chelsea will welcome this remarkably interesting work of
the Eev. A. G. L'L'Estrange. It sheds a flood of light upon the past; and, while
avoiding the heaviness of most antiquarian works, gives, in the form of a popular
and amusing sketch, a complete history of this 'Village of VaAa.ces.'"— Chelsea
JVeics.

DIARY OF A TOUR IN SWEDEN, NORWAY,

AND RUSSIA, IN 1827. By The Marchioness of Westminster.
1 vol. Demy 8vo. 15s.

A bright and lively record. So pleasantly are the letters written which Lady
"Westminster sent home, that her book is most agreeable; and it has this special
merit, that it brings clearly before us a number of the great people of former
days, royal and imperial personages, whose intimate acquaintance the traveller's
rank enabled her to make." — Athenaeum.

"A very agreeable and instructive volume"— .Sfa^Mr^/a?/ Review.

"We recommend Lady Westminster diary to all classes of readers as a
highly instructive book of interesting travel, replete with graphic sketches of
social life and scenery, and abounding in many entertaining anecdotes. It is
written throughout with excellent taste and good senses"— Court Journal.

HOLIDAYS IN EASTERN FRANCE; Sketches

of Travel in Champagne, Franche-Comte, the Jura, the Valley of
the DouBS, &c. By M. Bentham-Edwards, Author of "A Winter
with the Swallows," &c. 1 vol. 8vo. With Illustrations. 15s.

Miss Edwards' present volume, written in the same pleasant style as that which
described her wanderings in Western France, is so much the more to be recommended
that its contents are fresher and more novo" — Saturday Review.

"Readers of this work will find plenty of fresh information about some of the
most delightful parts of France. The descriptions of scenery are as graphic as the
sketches of character are lifelike." — Globe.

The tourist could not have a pleasant companion than this pretty book, and
its well laid out itineraries"— (?rai)/tic.

MESSRS. HUEST AND Blackett

NEW WOUKS—Co?itinued.

CONVERSATIONS with Distinguished Persons

during the Second Empire, from 1860 to 1863. By the Late
Nassau W. Senior. Edited by his Daughter, M. C. M Simpson
2 vols. 8vo. sos.
Among other persons whose conversations are given in these volumes are— Prince
Napoleon; the Due de Broglie; the Marquises Chambre, Lasteyrie Pallas
Vogue; Marshal Random ; Counts Arrivabene, Circourt Corcell'e Kern
Montalembert, Re'musat, Zamoyski; Generals Changarnier Felon
Trochus; Lords Cowley-sud Clyde; Messieurs Ampere, Beaumont Chamber'
Chevalier, Cousin, Dayton, Drouyn de Lhuys, Duchutel, Dufaure, Demon'
Duvergier de Lausanne, Guizot, Lamartine, Dominie, Auvergne, Sanguinis'
Maury, Marochetti, Mas son, Me'rimee, Dillon Barrot. Pellets, Pietro, Kean'
St. Hilaire, Slide, Thiers, De Witt; Mesdames Circourt, Cornu, Moil' &c '
"Mr. Senior's 'Conversations with M. Thiers, M. Guizot,' &c., published about a
year and a half ago, were the most interesting volumes of the series which had
appeared up to that time, and these new 'Conversations ' are hardly, if at all, less
welcome and important. A large part of this delightful book is made' up of studies
by various critics, from divers points of view, of the character of Louis Napoleon,
-and of more or less vivid and accurate explanations of his tortuous policy. The
work contains a few extremely interesting reports of conversations with M. Thiers.
There are some valuable reminiscences of Lamartine, and among men of a somewhat
later day, of Prince Napoleon, Drouyn de Lhuys, Montalembert, Victor
Cousin, Renan, and the Chevaliers." — Athenaeum.

It is impossible to do justice to these ' Conversations ' in a brief notice, so we
must be content to refer our readers to volumes which, wherever they are opened,
will be found pregnant with interest." — The Tunes.

"Many readers may prefer the dramatic or literary merit of Mr. Senior's 'Conversations
' to their historical interest, but it is impossible to insert extracts of Such
length as to represent the spirit, the finish, and the variety of a book which is
throughout entertaining and instructive." — Saturday Review. »

CONVERSATIONS with M. Thiers, M. Guizot,

and other Distinguished Persons, during the Second Empire. By
the Late Nassau W. Senior. Edited by his Daughter, M. C. 'M.
Simpson. 2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.
Among other persons whose conversations are recorded in these volumes are : —
King Leopold; the Due de Broglie; Lord Cowley; Counts Arrivabene, corneille,
Daru, Flahault, Kergolay, Montalembert; Generals Lamorici^re and
Chrzanowski; Sir Henry Ellis; Messieurs Ampere, Beaumont, Blanchard,
Buffet, Auguste Chevalier, Victor Cousin, De Witt, Dachutel, Ducpetiaux,
Demon, Dastard, Duvergier de Lausanne, Leon Faucher, Frere-Orban, Grim-blot,
Guizot, Lafltte, Baume, Lamartine, Sanguinis, Mallac, Main, Merited,
Magnet, Jules Moil, Monticello, Dillon-Barrot, Quetelet, Refusal, Rogiei-,
Rivet, Rossini, Horace Say. Thiers, Trouve-chapel, Villain, Wolowski;
Mesdames Circourt, Cornu, History, &c.
"This new series of Mr Senior's 'Conversations' has been for some years past
known in manuscript to his more intimate friends, and it has always been felt that
no former series would prove more valuable or important. Mr Senior had a social
position which gave him admission into the best literary and political circles of
Paris. He was a cultivated and sensible man, who knew how to take full advantage
of such an opening. And above all, he had by long practice so trained his
memory as to enable it to recall all the substance, and often the words, of the long
conversations which he was always holding. These conversations he wrote down
with a surprising accuracy, and then handed the manuscript to his friends, that
they might correct or modify his report of what they had said. This book thus
contains the opinions of eminent men given in the freedom of conversation, and
afterwards carefully revised. Of their value there cannot be a question. The book
is one of permanent historical interest. There is scarcely a p.igo without some
memorable statement by some memorable man. Politics and society and literature
—the three great interests that make up life— are all discussed in turn, and there ri
,nodiscussionwhichis unproductive of weighty thoughtorstriking fact"— ^fAe«««H».

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW Works— Continued.

HISTORY OF TWO QUEENS: CATHARINE

OF ARAGON and ANNE BOLEYN. By AY. Hepworth Demon.
Second Edition. Vols. 1 & 2. Demy 8vo. sos.

In two handsome volumes Mr. Dixon here gives us the first instalment of a
new historical work on a most attractive subject. The book is in many respects a
favourable specimen of Mr. Dixon's powers. It is the most painstaking and

elaborate that he has yet written On the whole, we may say that the book

is one which will sustain the reputation of its author as a writer of great power
and versatility, that it gives a new aspect to many an old subject, and presents ina
very striking light some of the most recent discoveries in English history"—
Athenaeum.

"In these volumes the author exhibits in a signal manner his special powers
and finest endowments. It is obvious that the historian has been at especial pain
to justify his reputation, to strengthen his hold upon the learned, and also to
extend his sway over the many who prize an attractive style and interesting narrative
more highly than laborious research and philosophic insight." — Morning Post.

The thanks of all students of English history are due to Mr. Hepworth Dixon
for his clever and original work, 'History of two Queens.' The book is a valuable
contribution to English history. The author has consulted a number of original
sources of information — in particular the archives at Simancas, Alcala, and Venice.
Mr. Dixon is a skilful writer. His style, singularly vivid, graphic, and dramatic—
is alive with human and artistic interest. Some of the incidental descriptions
reach a very high level of picturesque power"— Z)at72/ News.

VOLS. III. & IV. OF THE HISTORY OF TWO

QUEENS : CATHARINE OF ARAGON and ANNE BOLEYN.

By W. Hepworth Dixon. Second Edition. Demy 8vo. Price SOs.

Completing the Work.
These concluding volumes of Mr. Dixon's ' History of two Queens ' will be perused
with keen interest by thousands of readers. Whilst no less valuable to the
Student, they will be far more enthralling to the general reader than the earlier
half of the history. Every page of what may be termed Anne Boleyn's story affords
a happy illustration of the author's vivid and picturesque style. The work should
be foimd in every library." — Post.

Mr. Dixon has pre-eminently the art of interesting his readers. He has produced
a narrative of considerable value, conceived in a spirit of fairness, and
written with power and picturesque effect." — Daily News.

HISTORY OF WILLIAM PENN, Founder of

Pennsylvania. By W. Hepworth Demon. A New Library Edition.
1 vol. demy 8vo-with Portrait. 12s.
Mr. Dixon's ' "William Penn ' is, perhaps, the best of his "books. He has now revised
and issued it with the addition of much fresh matter. It is now offered in a
sumptuous volume, matching with Mr. Dixon's recent books, to a new generation of
readers, who will thank Mr. Dixon for his interesting and instructive memoir of
one of the worthies of England"— Examiner.

FREE RUSSIA. By W. Hepworth Dixon. Third

Edition. 2 vols. 8vo, with Coloured Illustrations. sos.
"Mr. Dixon's book will be certain not only to interest but to please its readers
and it deserves to do so. It contains a great deal that is worthy of attention, and
is likely to produce a very useful effect" — Saturday Review.

THE Swimmers. By W. Hepworth Dixon.

Third Edition. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.
"A lively, interesting, and altogether novel book on Switzerland, It is full of
valuable information on social, political, and ecclesiastical questions, and, like all
Mr. Dixon's books, is eminently readable"— Z>a% news.

MESSRS. Hurst AND BLACKETT'S

NEW Works— Continued.

MEMOIRS OF Georgians, LADY Chatterton;

With some Passages from her Diary. By E. Engage
Bering. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.
Among other persons mentioned in this work are Lords Vanstone, Brougham,
Macaulay, Lytton, Houghton; Messrs. Wilberforce. Wordsworth, Hallam,
Rogers, Moore, Sydney Smith, Landor, Lockhart, Fonblanque, Warburton,
Harness, Chantry; Count Montalembert, Dr. Ullathorne, Dr. Newman,
Joanna Baillie, Lady Gifford, Lady Cork, Mrs. Somerville, Mrs. Norton, &c.
•' Lady Chatterton's Diary gives a sketch of society during a well known but
erin teres ting period. Mr. During may be congratulated on having furnished a
graceful epilogue to the story of an interesting life'— AtJmiieuTn.

THE YOUTH OF QUEEN ELIZABETH. Edited,

from the French of L. Wiesener, by Charlotte M. Yonge, Author
of " The Heir of Redclyffe," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
"]\L Wiesener is to be complimented on the completeness, accuracy, and research
shown in this work. He has drawn largely on the French Archives, the
Public Record Office, and British Museum, for information contained in original
documents, to some of which notice is directed for the first time. M. Wiesener's
work is well worth translating, for it is most interesting as showing the education
and circumstances which tended to form the character of that extraordinary
queen. Miss Yonge appears to have successfully accomplished the task which she
has undertaken." — Athenaeum.

A LEGACY : Being the Life and Remains of John

Martin, Schoolmaster and Poet. Written and Edited by the
Author of " John Halifax." 2 vols, crown 8vo. With Portrait. 21s.

This is, in many respects, a remarkable book. It records the life, world, aspirations,
and death of a schoolmaster and poet, of lowly birth but high-strung and
ambitious soul. His writings brim with vivid thought, keen analysis of feeling,
touches of poetic sentiment, and trenchant criticism of men and books, expressed
in scholarly language"— (7Mar(^ia«.

"Mrs. Crank has related a beautiful and pathetic story— a story of faith and
courage and untiring energy on the part of a young and gifted man, who might
under other circumstances have won a place in literature. The story is one worth
reading." — Pall Mall Gazette.

THE THEATRE Francis IN THE REIGN

OF LOUIS XV. By Lord Langton. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.

A most valuable contribution to dramatic literature. All members of the profession
should read it." — Morning Post.

A work on a most attractive subject, which will be perused with keen merest
by thousands of readers. It is written in a style singularly vivid, dramatic, and interesting."
— Court Journal.

HISTORIC CHATEAUX: Blois, Fontainebleau,

Vincennes. By Lord Lamington. 1 vol. 8vo. 15s.
"A very interesting volume"— 7^'mes.

"A lively and agreeable book, full of action and colours"— ^//jew^Mm.
"This book is bright, pleasant readings"— British Quarterly Review.

LONDONIANA. By Edward Walford, ISI.A.,

Author of " The County Families," &c. 2 volumes crown 8vo. 21s.

"A highly interesting and entertaining book. It bristles with anecdotes and
amusing sketches. The style is vivid, graphic, and dramatic, and the descriptions
are given with a terseness and vigour that rivet the attention of the reader, fine
historian, the antiquarian, and the lover of romance will combine m pronouncing
*Londoniana' one of the most readable books of the day-C'o«r«-^^onnial

There is variety and amusement in Mr. Walford's volumes. —Pall Mall gazette.

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW WOUKS—Co7it{nued,

VOLS. I. & 11. OF HER MAJESTY'S TOWER.

By W. HEPWORTH DIXON. DEDICATED BY EXPRESS
PERMISSION TO THE QUEEN. Sixth Edition. 8vo. sos.
From the Times:— "All the civilized world— English, Continental, and American
— takes an interest in the Tower of London. The Tower is the stage
upon which has been enacted some of the grandest dramas and saddest tragedies
in our national annals. If, in imagination, we take our stand on those time-worn
walls, and let century after century flit past us, we shall see in due succession the
majority of the most famous men and lovely women of England in the olden time.
We shall see them jesting, jousting, love-making, plotting, and then anon, perhaps,
commending their souls to God in the presence of a hideous masked figure,
bearing an axe in his hands. It is such pictures as these that Mr. Dixon, with
considerable skill as an historical limner, has set before us in these volumes. Mr.
Dixon dashes off the scenes of Tower history with great spirit. His descriptions
are given with such terseness and vigour that we should spoil them by any attempt
at condensation. In conclusion, we may congratulate the author on this work. Both
volumes are decidedly attractive, and throw much light on our national history."

VOLS. HI. & TV. OF HER MAJESTY'S TOWER.

By W. HEPWORTH DIXON. DEDICATED BY EXPRESS
PERMISSION TO THE QUEEN. Completing the Work. TJdrd
Edition. Demy 8vo. sos.

ROUND THE WORLD IN SIX MONTHS. By

LiEUT.-CoLONEL E. S. BRIDGES, Grenadier Guards. 1. vol 8vo. 15s.

The author may be congratulated on his success, for his pages are light and
pleasant. The volume will be found both amusing and \xseixi\."—Athmieum.

Colonel Bridges' book has the merit of being lively and readable. His advice
to future travellers as well as his estimate of expenses may be found serviceable."
—Pall Mall Gazette.

"A thoroughly interesting and amusing book, as full of solid matter as pleasant
anecdote. We have not met a truer picture of American, Japanese, Chinese,
Indian, Egyptian, or Maltese scenery and surroundings." — Court Journal.

A YOUNG SQUIRE OF THE SEVENTEENTH

CENTURY, from the Papers of Christopher Jefferson, of Bellingham
House, Cambridgeshire. Edited by John Cord Jefferson,
Author of "A Book about Doctors," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
"Two volumes of very attractive matter :— letters which illustrate agriculture,
commerce, war, love, and social manners, accounts of passing public events, and
details which are not to be found in the Gazettes, and which come with singular-freshness
from private letters." — Athenaeum.

Two agreeable and important volumes. They deserve to be placed on library
shelves with Pepys, Evelyn, and Kereaby."- A^'o^ei arid Queries.

RORAIMA AND BRITISH GUIANA, with a

Glance at Bermuda, the West Indies, and the Spanish Main. By
J. W\ Boddam-Whetham. 8vo. With Map and Illustrations. 1 5s.

"The author has succeeded in producing an interesting and readable book of
travels. His remarks on every-day life in the tropics, his notes on the geography
and natural history of the countries he visited, and, above all, his vivid descriptions
of scenery, combine to form a record of adventure which in attractiveness it
will not be easy to surpass." — Athenaeum.

Mr. Whetham writes with vigour, and describes the life in the forests and on
the rivers and prairies of South America with a picturesqueness and freshness of
interest not inferior to that of the late Mr. Water ton's immortal wanderings. Mr.
Whetham travelled in portions of Guiana little known, meeting with many adventures,
seeing many strange sights, and taking notes which have furnished matter
for a book of fascinating interest." — Daily Nevis.

MESSRS. HUEST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW Works— Continued.

CELEBRITIES I HAVE KNOWN. By Lord

William Pitt Lennox. Second Series. 2 volumes demy 8 vo. sos.
Among other persons mentioned in the Second Series of this work are— The
Princess Charlotte and Prince Leopold ; the Dukes of Wellington and Beaufort;
the Earls of Durham and Carlisle; Lords Byron, Clyde, Adolphus Fits
and Cockburn; Sirs Walter Scott, Q. Wombwell, A. Barnard, John
Elle, Sidney, Harry, and C. F. Smith ; Count Doorway ; Dr. Dodd ; Messrs.
Thomas Moore, Theodore Hook, Leigh Hunt, Jordan, James, Horace, and
Albert Smith, Bentley, Tattersall, Hudson, Ude, George Coleman, The Kemble,
G. F. Cooke, Charles Young, Edmund and Charles Kean, Yates, Harley ; Miss
Foots; Mrs. Nisbet; Mesdames Catalani,Grassini, Rachel, &c.
"This new series of Lord William Lennox's reminiscences is fully as entertaining
as the preceding one. Lord William makes good use of an excellent memory,
and he writes easily and pleasantly"— PaZZ Mall Gazette.

"One of the best books of the season. Pleasant anecdotes, exciting episodes, smart
sayings, witticisms, and repartees are to be found on every page"— Cowrf Journal.

COACHING ; With Anecdotes of the Road. By

Lord William Pitt Lennox, Author of " Celebrities I have
Known," &c. Dedicated to His Grace the Duke of Beaufort,
Keg., President, and the Members of the Coaching
Club. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.

Lord William's book is genial, discursive, and gossipy. We are indebted to the
author's personal recollections for some lively stories, and pleasant sketches of
some of the more famous dragoman. Nor does Lord William by any moans limit
himself to the English roads, and English coaches. Bianconi's Irish cars, Lie continental
diligences, with anecdotes of His Grace of Wellington, when Lord William
was acting as his aide-de-camp during the occupation of Paris, with many other
matters more or less germane to his subject, are all brought in more or less
naturally. Altogether his volume, with the variety of its contents, will be found
pleasant reading." — Pall Mall Gazette.

LIFE OF MOSCHELES ; with Selections from

HIS DIARIES AND CORRESPONDENCE. By His Wife.

2 vols, large post 8vo, with Portrait. dis.
"This life of Moscheles will be a valuable book of reference for the musical historian,
for the contents extend over a period of threescore years, commencing with
1794, and ending at 1870. We need scarcely state that all the portions of Moche
diary which refer to his intercourse with Beethoven, Hunmiel, Weber, Czerny,
Sporting, Rossini, Auber, Hal^vy, Schumann, Cherubim, Spohr, Mendelssohn, F.
David, Chopin, J B. Cramer. Clement, John Field, Habeneck, Hauptmann, Kalk-
brenner, Kiesewetter, C. Klingemann, Laplace, Dragouetti, Sontag, Persian,
Malian, Paganini, Rachel, Ronzi de Begnis, De Heriot, Ernst, Donzelli, Cinti-
Moreau, Heard, Bochsa, Reporte, Charles Kemble, Paton (Mrs. Wood),
Schroder-Devrient, Mrs. Siddons, Sir H. Bishop, Sir G. Smart, Staudigl, Thalers,
Berlioz, Veluti, C. Young, Bale, Abraham, and many other artists of note in their
time, will recall a flood of recollections. It was a delicate task for Madame Isosceles
to select from the diaries in reference to living persons, but her extracts have
been judiciously made. Moscheles writes fairly of what is called the ' Music of tho
Future' and its disciples, and his judgments on Herr Wagner. Dr. Liszt, bernstein,
Dr. von Billow, Litolff, &c., whether as composers or executants, are m a
liberal spirit. He recognizes cheerfully the talents of oar native artists, Sir Stern-dale
Bennett, Mr. Macfarren, Madame Arabella Goddard, Mr. John Barnett Mr.
Hullah Mrs. Shaw, Mr. A. Sullivan, &c. The celebrities with whom Moscheles
same in contact, include Sir Walter Scott, Sir Robert Peel, the late Duke ol Cambridge,
the Bunsen, Louis Philippe, Napoleon the Third, Humboldt Henry Nemo,
Thomas More, Count Nesselrode, the Duchess of Orleans, Prof. Wolf, 6.C. lu-deed,
the two volumes are full of amusing anecdotes"— /i</je«a;u/n.

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW WOnKS—Continued.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen.
Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4to, 5s. bound.

"These letters, the work of a pure and devout spirit, deserve to find many
readers. They are greatly superior to the average of what is called religious
literature." — Athensemn.

"The writer of the tenderly-conceived letters in this volume was Mrs. Julius
Hare, a sister of Mr. Maurice. They are instinct with the devout submissiveness
and fine sympathy which we associate with the name of Maurice ; but in her there
is added a willingness of tact, and sometimes, too, a directness of language, which
we hardly find even in the brother. The letters were privately printed and circulated,
and were found to be the source of much comfort, which they cannot fail
to afford now to a wide circle. A sweetly-conceived memorial poem, bearing
the well-known initials, 'E. H. P.', gives a very faithful outline of the life." — British
Quarterly Review.

This touching and most comforting work is dedicated to The Queen, who took
a gracious interest in its first appearance, when printed for private circulation, and
found comfort in its pages, and has now commanded its publication, that the
world in general may profit by it. A more practical and heart-stirring appeal to
the afflicted we have never examined." — Standard.

OUR BISHOPS AND DEANS. By the Rev. F.

Arnold, Bea., late of Christ Church, Oxford. 2 vols. 8vo. sos.
This work is good in conception and cleverly executed, and as thoroughly
honest and earnest as it is interesting and able." — John Bull.

LIFE OF THE RT. HON. SPENCER PERCEVAL ;

Including His Correspondence. By His Grandson, Spencer Walpole.
2 vols. 8vo. With Portrait. sos.
This biography will take rank, as a faithful reflection of the statesman and
his period, as also for its philosophic, logical, and dramatic completeness." — Post.

THE SEA OF MOUNTAINS : An Account of

Lord Dupferin's Tour through British Columbia in 1876. By

Molyneux St. John. 2 vols, crown 8vo. With Portrait of Lord

Dufferin. 21s.

""Mr. St. John has given us in these pages a record of all that was seen and done

in a very successful visit. His book is instructive, and it should be interesting to

the general reader." — Times.

Mr. St. John is a shrewd and lively writer. The reader will find ample variety
in his book, which is well worth perusal." — Pall Mall Gazette.

MY YOUTH, BY SEA AND LAND, from 1809 to

1816. By Charles Loftus, formerly of the Royal Navy,
late of the Coldstream Guards. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

"Major Loftus played the part allotted to him with honour and ability, and he
relates the story of bis sea life with spirit and vigour. Some of his sea stories areas
laughable as anything in 'Peter Simple,' while many of his adventures on
shore remind us of Charles Lever in his freshest days. During his sea life
Major Totus became* acquainted with many distinguished persons. Besides the
Duke of Wellington, the Prince Regent, and William IV., he was brought into
personal relation with the allied Sovereigns, the Due D'Angouleme, Lord William
Bentinck, and Sir Hudson Lowe. A more genial, pleasant, wholesome book we
have not often read." — Standard.

ACROSS CENTRAL AMERICA. By J. W. .

8vo. With Illustrations. 15s.
"Mr. Eoddam-Whetham writes easily and agreea\i]y."'-~Pall Mall Gazette.
A bright and lively account of interesting travel'" — Globe.

MESSRS. HUEST AND BLACKETT'S
PUBLICATIONS— Continued.

HISTORY OF ENGLISH HUMOUR. By the

Rev. A. G. L'EsTRANGE, Author of " The Life of the Rev. W.
Harness," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
This work contains a large and varied amount of information. It is impossible
to give any idea of the wealth of anecdote and epigram in its pages"— /o/t/j Bull.

A MAN OF OTHER DAYS : Recollections of the

Marquis de Beauregard. Edited, from the French, by Charlotte
M. Yonge, Author of " The Heir of Redclyffe," &c. 2 vols. 2l3.

MY YEAR IN AN INDIAN FORT. By Mrs.

Guthrie. 2 vols, crown 8vo. With Illustrations. 21s.
"Written with intelligence and ability"— Pati Mall Gazette.

RECOLLECTIONS of COLONEL DE Bonneville.

Edited from the French by Charlotte M. Yonge,

Author of the " Heir of Redclyffe," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

This work discloses a variety of details of interest connected with Napoleon's

escape from Elba, the Hundred Days, the Bourbon Restoration, and the Revolution

of July, 1830."— The Times.

THROUGH FRANCE AND BELGIUM, BY

RIVER AND CANAL, IN THE STEAM YACHT '« YTENE."
By W. J. C. Mons. R.V.Y.C. 1 vol. 8vo. With Illustrations. 15s.

MY LIFE, FROM 1815 to 1819. By Charles Loftus,

foi-merely of the Royal Navy, late of the Coldstream Guards.
Author of " My Youth by Sea and Land." 2 vols, crown 8vo. dis.

A BOOK ABOUT THE TABLE. By J. C.

Jefferson. 2 vols. 8vo. sos.
*' This book is readable and amusing from first to last— Morning Post.

Costs ESPANOLAS ; or, Every-day Life in

Spain. By Mrs. Harvey, of Ickwell-Bury, Author of *' Turkish
Harems and Circassian Homes," Second Edition. 1 vol. 8vo. 158.

PEARLS OF THE PACIFIC. By J. W. Boddam-
Whetham. 1 vol. Demy 8vo, with 8 Illustrations. 15s.

The literary merits of this work are of a very high order." — Athenians

TURKISH HAREMS & CIRCASSIAN HOMES.

By Mrs. Harvey, of Ickwell-Bury. Bvo. Second Edition. 15s.

MEMOIRS OF QUEEN HORTENSE, MOTHER

OF NAPOLEON III. Cheaper Edition, in 1 vol. 6s.
A biography of the beautiful and unhappy Queen, more satisfactory than any we
have yet met with"— Z)at7y News.

RECOLLECTIONS OF SOCIETY IN FRANCE

AND ENGLAND. By Lady Clementina Davies. 2nd Edition. 2 v.
Two charming volumes, full of the most interesting matter"— Po5<.

THE EXILES AT ST. GERMAINS. By the

Author of " The Lady Shakerley." 1 vol. 7s. 6d. bound.

PUBLISHED BY HUEST & BLACKETT.

MISS BOUVEEIE. By Mrs. Moleswokth, Author

of " Hathercourt Rectory," " The Cuckoo Clock," &c. 3 vols.

MERVYN O'connor. By the Earl of Desart,

Author of " Coverdale," &c. 3 vols.

A MODERN Greek Heroine. 3 vols.

Poor ZEPH. By F. W. Robinson, Author of

Grandmother's Money," &c. 3 vols.

POET AND Peer. By Hamilton Aide, Author of

Penruddocko," &c. Dedicated to Lord Lytton. 3 vols.

'Poet and Peer' is a novel of unusual merit, the work of a cultivated man of
the world, who describes what he has himself seen. It is, both in intention and
execution, the best of Mr. Aide's novels, and will interest and amuse every reader
who takes it up." — Athenaeum.

"A thoroughly readable and attractive novel." — Morning Post.

In these days of careless and ill-considered writing it is satisfactory to read a
novel like 'Poet and Peer ' that shows signs of reflection and conscientious workmanship.
Mr. Aide evidently knows society well, and is as much at home in
society abroad as in England. The final chapters are worked out with great skill,
and the story is sufficiently relieved with brightness and humour to make it not
only interesting but agreeable Tesi(lmg."—Saturda}/ Review:

"If Mr. Aide's aim in writing his 'Poet and Peer' was to produce a clever,
readable novel, he has succeeded in it remarkably well. In this entertaining and
interesting book there are numerous cleverly and carefully sketched figures of
modern life, and the arrangement of the story is artistic and well composed." —
Dailij News.

There Recruits, and The Girls They Left

Behind Them. By Joseph Hatton, Author of " Cruel London,"
&c. 3 vols.

"Mr. Hatton's new story is likely to become very popular, for it contains stirring
incidents, delightful love episodes, bright descriptions, and a most interesting
plot"' — Whitehall Review.

' Three Recruits ' is likely to surprise even Mr. Hatton's admirers by reason o-f
the powerfully dramatic character of its plot, the excellence of tie language, and
its remarkable picturesqueness. It is one of the best novels of the season, and is
sure to become exceedingly popular'' — Morning Post.

A vigorous and spirited novel, which will well maintain Mr. Hatton's established
reputation. The story is full of stirring incident." — John Bull.

"This novel is extremely entertaining. It is a bright and pleasant story"—
Laity News.

FOE HEE Dear SAKE. By Mary Cecil Hay,

Author of " Old Myddelton's Money," &c. 3 vols.
It is very seldom that a novel has appeared more deserving of popularity than
this unusually interesting story." — Post.

'For Her Dear Sake ' is a decided success"— /o/m Bull.
"Miss Hay undoubtedly has advanced considerably in this her latest contribution
to the novels of the day." — Sunday Times.

LILY OF THE VALLEY. By Mrs. Randolph,

Author of " Gentianella," &c. 3 vols.

A very pretty and romantic tale. Readers who begin the book are sure to
finish it "examiner.

A very excellent novel. The plot is marvellously ingenious"— Sunday Times.

This novel abounds in those brilliant qualities which characterised Mrs. randolph's
former books. We strongly recommend 'Lily of the Valley' as a work
which rivets the attention from the opening to the last page." — Court Journal.



PUBLISHED BY HUEST & BLACKETT.

THE GREATEST HEIRESS IN ENGLAND. By

Mrs.Oliphant, Author of " Chronicles of Carlingford," &c. Second
Edition. 3 vols.

'The Greatest Heiress in England' should add to Mrs. Oliphant's reputation.
It is noticeably good among the great number of her good novels. The story runs
along pleasantly, and maintains the reader's interest throughout"— .4</je«a;M/H.

"This book is a delightful one — fresh, interesting, wholesome, and well written.
It deserves to take rank amoris the best works of the author'' — Examiner.

"There is a great deal or Mrs. Oliphant's best humour and cleverness in this
novel. Her great store of observation and power of amusing description are
largely displayed"— 2)ai7i/ News.

YOUNG MRS. JARDINE. By the Author of ^' John

Halifax, Gentleman." Second Edition. 3 vols.

' Young Mrs. Jardine ' is a pretty story, written in pure English." — The Times.

There is much tenderness and good feeling in this book. It is pleasant ami
wholesome'" — Athenaeum.

'' 'Young Mrs. Jardine' is a book that all should read. Whilst it is quite tho
equal of any of its predecessors in elevation of thought and style, it is, perhaps,
their superior in interest of plot and dramatic intensity." — Moi-king Post.

LITTLE MISS PRIMROSE. By the Author of

St. Slave's," " The Last of her Line," &c. 3 vols.

"The graceful tone and quality of the work of the author of 'St. Slave's' are well
known to novel readers. 'Little Miss Primrose ' is a very good example of her
manner." — Academy.

'' The author has succeeded in this charming tale in maintaining her popularity.
She has drawn, in the heroine, a delightful character"— J/orain^ Post. ^

A SYLVAN QUEEN. By the Author of "Riches

Secret," &c. 3 vols.
A picturesque and very pleasing story, the principal merit of which consists in
its bright little pictures of country life and character"— 4 ^/jencewm.
A charming tale ; the plot is varied and entertaining"— /"os^.
A very well-told story, with much real tenderness and pathos in it"— John Bull.

YOUNG LORD PENRITH. By John Berwick

Haywood, Author of " Lady Flavian," &c. 3 vols.

An interesting and well-told story. The plot is exciting and yet natural"— Pos;.

The reader follows the narrative with pleasure and genuine admiration. There
are scenes which will have the charm of novelty for many readers and of masterly
treatment for alV'—Pall Mall Gazette.

IN THE SWEET SPRING-TIME. By Mrs. Mac-quod,

Author of " Patty," &c. 3 vols.

"A most interesting story of domestic life, written in Mrs. Macquoid's best
style It abounds with dramatic situations, and is not wanting m pathos and
humour. It is a delightful and refreshing book, in every way deserving of popularity,
and worthy of its author's reputation"— il/or«i«^ Post. , . , . ^

A pleasant and highly interesting story. The conversations are bright and
natural, and the descriptions of scenery picturesque"— fa/i Mall.

FRIEND AND LOVER. By Iza Duffus Early,

Author of " Glencairn," &c. 3 vols.

A powerful story, well worth reading. The plot is ingenious, original, and yet
perfectly natural. Miss Hardy sketches of character are truthful, vivid and
graphic It is decidedly one of the best written books ot the season. — / est.

The best novel Miss Hardy has written"— Josh Bill.

A remarkable, powerful, and fascinating hook"— Sunday Times.



LODGERS PEERAGE

AND BARONETAGE,

CORRECTED BY THE NOBILITY.

THE FOBTY-NIIfTH EDITION FOB 1 880 IS NOW READY.

Lodge's Peerage and Baronetage is acknowledged to be the most

complete, as well as the most elegant, work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family-histories,
honours, and connections of the titled aristocracy, no work has
ever stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal communications
of the Nobility. It is the only work of its class in which, the
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the realm, the most
Sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches of the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility of arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility.

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.

Historical View of the Peerage.

Parliamentary Roll of the House of Lords.

English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their
orders of Precedence.

Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain
and the United Kingdom, holding superior
rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage.

Alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers,
holding superior titles in the Peerage of
Great Britain and the United Kingdom.

A Collective list of Peers, in their order of
Precedence.

Table of Precedency among Men.

Table of Precedency among Women.

The Queen and the Royal Family.

Peers of the Blood Royal.

The Peerage, alphabetically arranged.

Families of such Extinct Peers as have left
"Widows or Issue.

Alphabetical List of the Surnames of all the
Peers.

The Archbishops and Bishops of England
and Ireland.

The Baronetage alphabetically arranged.

Alphabetical List of Surnames assumed by
members of Noble Families.

Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
Peers, usually borne by their Eldest
Sons.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Dukes, Marquises, and Earls, who, having
married Commoners, retain the title
of Lady before their own Christian and
their Husband's Surnames.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Viscounts and Barons, who, having
married Commoners, are styled Honourable
Mrs. ; and, in case of the husband
being a Baronet or Knight. Hon. Lady.

A List of the Orders of Knighthood.

Mottoes alphabetically arranged and translated.


This work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently deceased
members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stands at this day. It is
a most useful publication. We are happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy is a distinguishing feature of this hoo^."— Times.

Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: first, it
IS on a better plan ; and secondly, it is better executed. We can safely pronounce it to bethe
readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modern works on the suhiect."— Spectator
A work of great value. It is the most faithful record we possess of the aristocracy
of the day"— Pos.

"The best existing, and, we believe, the best possible Peerage. It is the standard
authority on the subject"— standard:



OF CHEAP EDITIONS OF

POPULAR MODERN WORKS,

ILLUSTRATED BY SIR J. GILBERT, MILLAIS, HUNT, LEECH, FOSTER,
Pointer, TENNIEL, Sands, HUGHES, Tambourine, &C.

Each in a Single Volume, elegantly printed, bound, and illustrated, price 5s.
1. SAM SLICK'S NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"The first volume of Messrs. Hurst and Blackett's Standard Library of Cheap Editions
forms a very good beginning to what will doubtless be a very successful undertaking.
Nature and Human Nature ' is one of the best of Sam Slick's witty and humorous
productions, and is well entitled to the large circulation which it cannot fail to obtain
in its present convenient and cheap shape. The volume combines with the great recommendations
of a clear, bold type, and good paper, the lesser but attractive merits ct
being well illustrated and elegantly bound." — Post.

2. JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

"This ia a very good and a very interesting work. It is designed to trace the career
from boyhood to age of a perfect man — a Christian gentleman; and it abounds in incident
both well and highly wrought Throughout it is conceived in a high spirit, and
written with great ability. This cheap and handsome new edition is worthy to pas*
freely from hand to hand as a gift book in many households." — Examiner.

3. THE CRESCENT AND THE CROSS.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.

Independent of its value as an original narrative, and its useful and interesting
Information, this work is remarkable for the colouring power and play of fancy with
which its descriptions are enlivened. Among its greatest and most lasting charms is
its reverent and serious spirit" — Quarterly Review.

4. NATHALIE. By JULIA KAVANAGH.

' Nathalie' ia Miss Kavanagh'a best imaginative effort Its manner ia gracious and
attractive. Its matter is good. A sentiment, a tenderness, are commanded by her
which are as individual as they are elegant" — Athenaeum.

5. A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"A book of sound counsel. It is one of the most sensible works of its kind, well-written,
true-hearted, and altogether practical. Whoever wishes to give advice to a
young lady may thank the author for means of doing so." — Examiner.

6. ADAM Gramme. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

A Story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its admirable pictures
of Scottish life and scenery. The author sets before us the essential attributes of
Christian virtue, with a delicacy, power, and truth which can hardly be surpassed-pos

7. SAM SLICK'S WISE SAWS AND MODERN
INSTANCES.

The reputation of this book will stand as long as that of Scott's or Buller's Novels.
Its remarkable originality and happy descriptions of American life still continue the-subject
of universal admiration." — Messenger.

8. CARDINAL WISEMAN'S RECOLLECTIONS OF
THE LAST FOUR POPES.

A picturesque book on Rome and its ecclesiastical sovereigns, by an eloquent Roman
Catholic. Cardinal Wiseman has treated a special subject with so much geniality, that
his recollections will excite no ill-feeling in those who are most conscientiously opposed
to every idea of human infallibility represented in Papal domination." — Athenaeum.

9. A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"In 'A Life for a Life ' the author ia fortunate in a good subject, and has produced a>
work of strong eSecV—Athenieum,



'• \ delightful book, that will be-welcome to all readers, and most welcome to those
who have a love for the best kinds of Readings"— Examiner.

11. Margaret AND HEB Bridesmaids.

We recommend all who are in search of a fascinating novel to read this work for
themselves. They wil find it well worth their while. There are a freshness and originality
about it quite charming"— J f/i«'n;fw»j.

12. THE OLD JUDGE. By SAM SLICK.

'the publications included in this Library have all been of good quality; many give
information while they entertain, and of that class the book before us is a specimen.
The manner in which the Cheap Editions forming the series is produced, deserves
especial mention. The paper and print are unexceptionable ; there is a steel engraving
in each volume, and the outsides of them will satisfy the purchaser who likes to see
books in handsome uniform." — Examiner.

13. Darien. By ELIOT Warburton.

"This last production of the author of 'The Crescent and the Cross ' has the same
elements of a very wide popularity. It will please its thousands." — Globe.

14. FAMILY Romance.

BY SIR BERNARD BURKE, ULSTER King OF ARMS.
"It were impossible to praise too highly this most interesting hook"— Standard.

15. THE Laid OF NOBLAW. By MBS. Oliphant.

"The 'Laird of Xorlaw' fully sustains the author's high reputation. ■■—5u72cf<Jj/ Times.

16. THE ENGLISHWOMAN IN ITALY.

"ills. Bretton's book is interesting, and full of opportune instructions"— rt'me*.

17. NOTHING NEW.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'Nothing New ' displays all those superior merits which have made ' John Halifax '
one of the niost popular works of the day'" — Point.

18. FBEEB's LIFE OF JEANNE D'ALBBET.

"Nothing can be more interesting than Miss Frees story of the life of Jeanne
D'Albret, and the narrative is as trustworthy as it is attractive." — Past.

19. THE VALLEY OF A Hundred Fires.

BY THE AUTHOR OF 'margaret AND HER BRIDESMAIDS."
If asked to classify this work, w e should give it a place between ' John Halifax ' and
••The Cantons'" — Standard.

20. THE Romance OF THE Forum.

BY PETER BURKE, SERGEANT AT LAW.
A work of singular interest, which can never faU to eh.3.rm."— HI distracted 3'w*.

21. ADELE. By JULIA KAVANAGH.

' Adele ' is the best work we have read by Miss Kavanagh ; if is a charming story,
fuUof delicate character-painting." — Athenaeum.

22. STUDIES From LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF-john HALIFAX, Gentlemen."
"These 'Studies from Life ' are remarkable for graphic power and observation. The
book will not diminish the reputation of the accomplished author." — Saturday Review.

23. Grandmother's MONEY.

"recommend 'Grandmother's Money' to readers in search of a good novel The
characters are true to human nature, and the story is interesting." — Athenaeum.

U

24:. A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS, By J. C. JTATFKESOX.

well &s the iriwii:g-rc-:i:i :i':le i-i the o:r:z"itii:;: i:":rirv." Laxc^

25. XO CHTJECH.

"We advise all who have-abe err-rrzn::- : - rein thi; rock." — ASkexjeum.

26. MISTRESS AND MAID.
BY THE AUTHOR OF ** JOHN HALIFAX, GEXTLEAIAS'."'
"AgoodwlKdesomebook. grmcefnUywiittai, and as pleasant to read as u is iaBtrao-
iixe-^—AthoMewm: " A channing tale fJiarmniety told." mmimri.

27. LOST AND SAVED. By HON. MRS. NORTON.

• Los: and Saved * wi'.I >:e read tr-;:h nearer-.iiterri I: :? 1 vi^.^rc -s :i:t~ — Time.
"A novel of rare excelled-ce. I: is Mrs. 5.':r:.:- s "ces: rrjse vr:rk."—i:.-j .:.•'-.

28. LES Miserable. By VICTOR HUGO.
AUTHORISED COPYRIGHT ENGLISH TRANSLATION.
"The merits of 'Les Miserable' do not merely consist in the conception of it as a
whole ; it abounds with de:o.ils 0: ttzeqniHed teautv. iL Victor Hugo has stakmir^ upon
every page the hall-mark c: ger^c^s. " — vuarr<fr;» R^ri^v.

29. BARBARA'S HISTORY. By AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

•' It is no: often that we Ugh; upon s novel of so much merit and interest as • BirbATi a
History.' It is a work conspicuous fir taste and literary cnlnre. It is a very gr3,0t?f;il
and charming book, with a wel-managed story, clearly-cut characters, and sentiments
expressed with an exquisite elocution. It is a book which the world will like." — Ti-r.^s.

30. LITE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
A good K>ok on a most interesting theme." —ri.- .5.

"A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. Irving's Life ought to Lave a niche
in evervgkliery of religious bio;jrat?hv." — S.i.':.r,;\i:- Acr;<:.-.

31. ST. Slave's.

"This charming novel is the work of one wh ■> r .assesses a great talent for writing, aa
well as experience and knowledge of the world " — A:'Ki~r:.\.

32- SAM SLICK'S AMERICAN HUMOUR.

"Dip where you will into this lottery of tun. you .ere sure to draw cut a prize"— Peri

33. CHRISTIANS MISTAKE.
BY THE AUTHOR OF *• JOHN HALIFAX. GENTLEMAN."

"A more charming story has rarely been written Even if tried by the standard cf
the Archbishop of "Work. we should expect that even he would pronounce "Christians
Mistake" a novel without .'\ fault." — Times.

34. ALEC FORBES. By GEORGE MAC DONALD. LL.D.

•• No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the work from the first p;ige to the '.As'j'—Athfnixun,.

35. AGNES. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

"agnes' is a novel superior to any o: Mrs. Oiirhan: s former works"— .4r"i^-:,rtffw
"A story whose pathetic beauty wiJ^ spread irresistible to all readers'— foe:,

36. A NOBLE LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "john HALIFAX, Gentleman**
"This is one of those pleasant tales in which the author of 'John Halifax" s^vak-
out of a generous heart the purest truths of life. ""—£ --;i';,fr.

37. NEW AMERICA. By HEP WORTH DIXON.

"A very interesting K>ok. Mr. Dixon has written thor. - v;^".l" — Ji :••<

"ewe recommend every one who feels any interest u- ure to reid Mr.

Dixon's very interesting book." — Saturday Eeciac.

U

38. ROBERT FALCONER.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.
• Robert Falconer ' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
Interest. It is a book to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts hud feelings." — Athenaeum.

39. THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

' The Woman's Kingdom ' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the
purest and noblest kind of domestic s,iOTiQa.—Athmseum.

40. ANNALS OF AN EVENTFUL LIFE.

BY GEORGE Webb DASENT, D.C.L.

"A racy, well-written, and original novel. The interest never flags. The whole
work sparkles with wit and humour." — Quarterly Review.

41. DAVID ELGINBROD. By GEORGE MAC DONALD.

The work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of readers." — Times.

42. A BRAVE LADY.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"A very good novel; a thoughtful, well written book, showing a tender, sympathy
with lilian nature, and permeated by a pure and noble spirit." — Examiner. '

43. HANNAH.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a
wide circle of readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare hQa.uij."'— Standard.

44. SAM SLICK'S AMERICANS AT HOME.

"This is one of the most amusing books that we ever read." — Standard.

45. THE UNKIND WORD.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"The author of 'John Halifax 'has written many fascinating stories, but we can
call to mind nothing from her pen that has a more enduring charm than the graceful
sketches in this work." — United Service Magazine.

46. A ROSE IN JUNE. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

'A Rose in June ' is as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and may hold ita
own with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford.' "times.

47. MY LITTLE LADY. By E. F. Pointer.

There is a great deal of fascination about this book. The author writes in a clear,
unaffected style; she has a decided gift for depicting character, while the descriptions
of scenery convey a distinct pictorial impression to the reader." — Times.

48. Phoebe, JUNIOR. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

"This novel shows great knowledge of human nature. The interest goes on
growing to the end. Phoebe is excellently drawn." — Times.

49. LIFE OF MARIE ANTOINETTE.

BY PROFESSOR CHARLES DUKE YONGE.

"A work of remarkable merit and interest, which will, we doubt not, become the
most popular English history of Marie Antoinette." — Spectator.
"This book is well written, and of thrilling interest." — Academy,

50. SIR GIBBIE. By GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

' Sir Gibbie ' is a book of genius"— PaW Mall Gazette.

"This book has power, pathos, and humour. There is not a character which is not
lifelike.— .4(^enceMm.




