CHAPTER 1.

Cerulean

qui me glides in vallies Semi
Stat et ingenii morum protect umbra ! '

English travellers, and still more English exiles in the
east, love the Cerulean Mountains for their suggestive
resemblance to the Surrey Hills. They love them, too,
for their blue, transparent atmosphere ; their sweet sylvan
vistas ; their woodlands thick with wild roses ; their
undulating stretches of sward, where the horseman may
gallop as freely as on the Brighton downs. Unlike the
gorgeous outlines of the great ranges of the north, —
Simla with its wide perspective and snow-clad horizon,
Naini-Tal clinging to its precipitous mountain side, or
the far-off, awful, chilling majesty of Everest and ,
— the Cerulean win you by a loveliness
which owes much of its fascination to being essentially

homely. The unpretentious landscape smiles suggestively
VOL. I. B

of the possibility of hamlets clustering round well-kept
mansions, of village spires embosomed in immemorial
elms, and comfortable homesteads nestling in
some sheltered bend. As you wander over the great
uplands, you would scarcely be startled to meet a ruddy
English farmer, jogging homeward from the market-town,
or a smock-frocked shepherd, sheltering his ewes
and lambs from the keen Christmas frost. But you
will meet no one — unless, perchance, you come upon a
group of startled buffaloes or the tiny-rounded abodes
of primitive hillsmen, who have lingered on from a
dim legendary past into the modern world, and
whose wild shouts to their cattle sound like the cry of
Faun or Dryad rather than the articulate utterances of
civilised humanity. If you part from your comrades
and, as you easily may, miss the landmarks that would
guide you home, you will speedily enjoy the unaccustomed
sensation of being lost. The path, which just
now looked so inviting, turns out to be an impracticable
swamp ; the woodland behind is tangled and rugged ;
the track by which you came has suddenly disappeared ;
the fast-setting afternoon sun is throwing the shadows
higher and higher on the mountain's side ; a weird
howl recalls with disagreeable vividness the exploits of

the leopard that is reported in the neighbourhood.
Except this all is silent ; and the oppressive tranquillity
reminds you that, to conventional mankind, solitude,
to be quite enjoyable, needs to be shared with someone
who will sympathise in its enjoyment and express
his sympathy in living words.

Such, at any rate, was the mood of the modern occupants
of Cerulean, — a kindly, sociable race, little given
to solitary wanderings or other egoistic, self-inspective
practices. Few of them, it may safely be affirmed, ran
any risk of getting lost. Rather they clustered in
closely-serried groups, — talked and laughed, — loved and
quarrelled, — dined and danced, — occupied themselves
intensely with each other's affairs, and lived generally
in the keenest and completest enjoyment of one another's
company. Among the various shortcomings against
which the successive Chaplains of Cerulean felt themselves
called, from time to time, to warn their flocks,
no one had ever been unreasonable enough to include
the sin of unsociability.

Mr. Chichele, who, at the moment when this story
opens, guided the fortunes of Cerulean, was as fond of
society as his subjects, but, perhaps, more discriminating
in his sociability. He was sometimes condemned as

inhospitable by dull people, in whom, with the kindest
intentions, he found it impossible to take an interest,
and by pretentious ones, to whom his laboured politeness
betrayed a lurking touch of sarcasm. Such persons
he, no doubt, banished, as often as official etiquette
would allow, from banquets at which it was his hobby
to collect all that Cerulean could produce of the best
ingredients of agreeable society. For the experience of
life had convinced Chichele — by this time middle-aged
and philosophic — that an official day ought to be ended
by a good dinner, and that good dinners are most enjoyed
and best digested when partaken of in the company
of agreeable and intelligent women. If they were
beautiful to boot, the effect was still more complete.
Soothed by such pleasant influences, Chichele's nature,
which froze into a sort of long enduring apathy under
the routine of officials and the expositions of secretaries,
blossomed into a geniality, which those who
shared it appreciated all the more for its intermittent
and fugitive character.

Chief among the alleviations of existence was a
pleasant little mountain settlement whither he was
wont, as the summer drew on, to betake himself and his
surroundings. Here life was, if uneventful, picturesque.

and, at any rate, free from many of the ingredients of
active boredom. Chichele was something of an artist,
and Mature was everywhere around him close at hand
and lavish with interesting effects. He was sportsman
enough to enjoy an occasional gallop after jackal over
the wide upland, sloping gently to the precipitous
ghat, which, all along the western confines of CoBrulea,
frowns upon the steamy Malabar lowlands, and sheds
upon them the swollen torrents of the south-west monsoon.
He had plenty of work, and Masterly, his Chief
Secretary, brought it all to him in a form, which gave
the dullest subject a touch of brightness. Nothing, not
even a box full of Coerulean office papers, could baffle
Masterly's diligence or damp his fun. The two men
often sat laughing together over the monuments of
other people's dulness. Masterly could knock a spark
of merriment out of anything, even out of blunders of
Cerulean officials. Mrs. Paragon, also, was a near
neighbour and a good one. She was distinguished by
an agreeable person, a fine turn of wit, a ready flow
of conversation, and a feminine appreciation of the
foibles of her neighbours. When, as not unfrequently
happened, the two met at Chichele's hospitable board,
they generally managed to pass an amusing evening.

The amusement was apt to take a more cynical turn on
those evenings, when Mr. Montemm, who, as president of
the Wear and Tear Department, naturally saw a good
deal of the seamy side of men and institutions, accepted
Mr. Chichele's invitation to a quiet rubber. His gloomy
view of life was the wholesome bitter in the salad of
which Mrs. Paragon's good humour was the freshness
and sweetness, and Chichele relished the one as much
as the other.

Michele

It little profits that an idle king,
By this still hearth, among these barren crags,

I mete and dole

Unequal laws unto a savage race.

That hoard and sleep and feed, and know not me.'

Ulysses.

When Mr. Chichele (two years before the time at which
this story opens) accepted the Secretary of State's invitation
to become ' Governor of Cerulean and the Hilly
Tracts,' he was labouring under one of those accesses of
boredom and disappointment which occasionally drive
Englishmen to make essays into the region of the unexpected.
Ten years before he would have resented the suggestion
as an implied disparagement of pretensions, which
justified a higher flight of ambition. He would have
sneered at such an appointment as a shelf Now shelves
are excellent things, but one does not like to get on them

too early in life. Every man, who has a grain of ' ambition's
perilous stuff' in his composition, feels himself,
till he is forty, capable of great things, if only luck will
bring the opportunity in his way. He sees his contemporaries
go on to glory, and he knows, in many
instances, that their qualifications for glory are in noway
exceptional. Boys, whose Latin verses he used todo
for them at school, have blossomed out into Cabinet
Ministers, Parliamentary Orators, or brilliant Generals.
The fag, whom he used to thrash for carelessness, has
become a Queen's Counsel. The pleasant comrade of
idle summer afternoons has become an Ambassador.
By degrees such a man's ambition grows tamer. He
recognises that luck is for the lucky few, and that,
besides luck, a great many things go to command success
or to make it possible. Audacity, diligence, adroitness,
the quick knack of seizing the right occasion and
taking Fortune at the turn, — the clear, keen sight that
is all the keener for having a narrow area of vision, —
the moral levity that glides with happy and unconscious
grace over difficulties which bring thoughtful men to
grief — all these are ingredients of success, as well as
genius, surpassing ability or peter-human energy. The
man who does not succeed may console himself with

the reflection that it is to the want of these, as much as
of nobler claims to greatness, that his failure is attributable.
By fifty a man is beginning to grow modest, and
to doubt whether, after all, he has not had fully as
much as, or even more than, he deserved. Despite such
philosophical consolation, however, the life of unsuccessful
men has doubtless its reactionary moments of
melancholy ; and when a man is dull and melancholy,
there is no saying what he will not do.

Chichele's career, so far, had not been fruitful in
great results. He had left Christ Church with no other
reputation than that of a popular member of a cultured
set, and had betaken himself, by way of completing his
education, to reading for the law. A few months in an
eminent Conveyancer's chambers had convinced him
that his chances of eminence at the Bar were not such
as to justify years of uncongenial toil. His patrimony
though too modest to allow of any extravagance — was
yet sufficient to enable him to dispense with the questionable
advantages of a profession. The influence of a
rich, unmarried uncle, whose presumptive heir he was,
secured him an easy seat for a Borough, which made
but small demands on his energy or his purse. A few
dinners, a few visits, still fewer speeches, straight votes

with his party, and a large number of local subscriptions,
satisfied all the political requirements of his constituency.
Meanwhile Chichele drank deep of the pleasures
and excitements of society, and formed a large circle of
agreeable friends. In course of time he fell in love, or
believed that he did so, with a very smart young lady,
with whom he had valued and chatted through half
a London season. The smart young lady, on being
brought to the test, lost no time in explaining to him
that her ambition had a higher flight, and that an
agreeable valser is not necessarily an eligible husband
for a lady, whose affairs of the heart were in strict subordination
to the necessity of providing adequately for
the maintenance of a brilliant position in polite society,
and the gratification of a large number of expensive
tastes. Then Chichele, in a fit of disgust at the heartlessness
of smart young ladies, had become more indolent
than ever, had renounced conventionality and taken a
plunge into Bohemianism, from which he emerged a
wiser and a sadder man, fettered with the extremely
inconvenient appendage of a wife, whom it was impossible
to introduce to his friends, and whose society —
when the first outburst of boyish passion had died
away — he himself found to be entirely insupportable.

His wife was not long in affording him legal justification
for an arrangement which secured him — what he
now felt the most paramount of necessities — a home,
which should never be darkened by her presence, and a
circle of friends, in which her name should be never
mentioned except in the bated breath due to a misfortune
of the past. Chichele's separation had been a three-days'
gossip in his own set, into which he was speedily
readmitted on the footing — not altogether without its
redeeming comforts — of a man whom it was impossible
to dislike, but equally impossible to marry. But he
was weary of purposeless enjoyment. His conscience
rebelled at the idea of becoming a mere idler. On the
other hand, it was not particularly easy to find anything
to do. Having satisfied himself that he was not in the
running as a future Cabinet Minister, that nobody
thought much about his speeches in Parliament, and
that, somehow, he did not feel inspired to write a book
worth ^\Titing, Chichele began to look further a-field for
active achievement; and when the opportunity presented
itself of reigning over a discernible fraction of
British India, of which he knew about as much as of
the internal economy of Kamschatka, he accepted it, if
not with enthusiasm, at anv rate with a laudable determination

to do the job as well as his resources, moral
and physical, would allow him. He had worked really-hard
at his task, and had been rewarded by becoming
far more interested in it than either he or his friends
would have believed it possible that he could be in
anything which Parliament recognised as only a far-off
colonial detail, and as to which no human being in his
London set could affect to possess the most rudimentary
knowledge, or to feel the very slightest concern.

Chichele's new post, however, was not without some
distinguished associations. Cerulean had, from time to
time, welcomed a succession of rulers, each of whom had,
in his own particular line, a substantial claim to be
considered remarkable. Again and again had one of
these heaven-sent despots come sailing sublimely up
from the southern horizon, and the official world of
Cerulean had donned its gayest attire and its gravest
looks, and honoured with unquestioning alacrity the
latest beat of that imperial pulse, which throbbed from
the far-off, tiny island of the west, leo one knew
exactly why they came ; for sometimes, so Fortune
willed, an interval occurred; and then the Coerulean
sun still rose and glowed according to precedent : the
south-west monsoon still came raging, as usual, over

the mountains : the melancholy ocean still heaved and
howled on the low AVinclipatam coast-line : the ships
rolled and staggered in the roads : and the husje cargo
boats, with their innumerable rowers shouting in wild
cadence, came, as heretofore, tumbling and crashing
through the surf. Life, in fact, went on as usual ; and
the more advanced Cerulean confessed a dawning
consciousness that Governors were an expensive superfluity,
which, if so Heaven willed, might be spared with
something short of a convulsion. Then the new
Governor's vessel would appear in the horizon, and with
the first applause whiff of gunpowder, all these anarchic
ideas died away ; Cerulean chanted its accustomed
welcome, and the new Sovereign was led off. —
serene, bland, and condescending, — by smiling Secretaries,
like a Queen Bee by her attendant males, first to
take the oaths of office, and then to be fostered, taught,
and managed as his predecessors had been before
him. For, from the nature of the case, the Governors
of Cceriilea needed a great deal of education and no
little management. It was a gi-eat thing people felt to
get freshness, but freshness has its price, and part o:
the price was unbounded ignorance. Some of them were
accomplished, courtly gentlemen. — learned their lesson

with quick intelligence, and practised what they were
taught with laudable tact and promptitude, — presided
at Missionary Meetings and proposed the bride's health
at weddings with affable condescension, — evinced a
thrilling interest in female education, shed a ray of
fostering benignity on hospitals and zenanas, and stirred
the pure depths of female loveliness by a smile which
told its happy recipient that Governors, after all, were
mortal, compounded of the ordinary ingredients of
flesh and blood, and animated by the same genial impulses
as thrilled their fellowmen. But others of these
imperial emissaries were of less malleable material and
of more stubborn wits. There had been, so tradition
whispered, Governors who would be taught by no one ;
whom Nature had intended, so their outward man
asserted, to succeed by muscle and sinew ; but whom
Fortune, in one of her playful moods, doomed to be rulers
of mankind. The succession of a ruler of this order
naturally produced an embarrassing result of independence
of judgment, stiff-wickedness of purpose, the vehement
self-assertion of one who knew his own will, and
intended that others should share that knowledge.
Panoplied against conviction, he would impress his
personality on Coerulean affairs with a painful distinctness,

— would do what he pleased, and in the way he
chose to do it, and ' would have his way ' in that disagreeable
fashion in which a resolute man, who goes
trampling through a crowd regardless of the wishes and
toes of aU who are unlucky enough to cross his path,
may be said to have it. The reign of chaos would seem
about to set in, and the Coerulean officials would be
looking very grave when Providence, tempering the
wind to the shorn Coerulean lambs, would send another
Pharaoh to restore order to a convulsed administration
and a community quivering with discomfort. Such a
saviour of society presented himself in Chichele's immediate
predecessor. The new ruler was accomplished,
erudite, with a wide experience of courts, salons,
libraries, and studios. Under him the Cerulean
speedily became aware of the high privileges of their
position. His inaugural address became at once a landmark
in provincial annals. It was followed by many
others, which explained exhaustively to the Cerulean
the grandeur of the British Empire, the weight of the
Coerulean Governor's Crown, the dignity of the Proconsular
Office, and the fact — hitherto but scantily
recognised — that it was round the Governor, as around
a sort of sacred omphalos, that the various atoms of

Coerulean existence were destined to live and move, and
have their being-round me,' he oracularly apprised
his subjects, ' for the future you will all revolve.' ' A
sort of solar system!' whispered a fair member of his
audience, rather awed, 'what does he mean?' 'He
must mean,' suggested Mrs. Paragon, whom nothing
could awe, ' that he intends to give plenty of balls. I
hope that he will honour me with a valse.'

Mrs. Paragon's hopes were disappointed, for the
Saviour of society was not an enthusiastic valser, and
had other and deeper interests than the aspirations of
ball-goers to satisfy. He travelled about his dominions
with a truly heroic zeal ; harangued his subjects, and
submitted to be harangued by them on every possible
occasion ; piled up masses of invaluable information,
and took an interest in every local product — even the
Coerulean butterflies — of which he and his Aides-decamp
formed an excellent collection. Mr. Chichele,
when he ascended the throne, fell far short of his
predecessor's standard both in interest and zeal. He
danced more; he minuted less; he made speeches on the
rarest possible occasions, and then in a manner which
proclaimed at once that he contemplated no oratorical
effect. On the whole, his popularity with his subjects

was, perhaps, none the fainter for a less pretentious
programme and a more human theory of humanity.
On the other hand, he now and then achieved, to all
appearance unintentionally, a witticism which told the
Cerulean that their ruler was something more thana
mere official ; and it not unfrequently happened that
impostors, social or official, whose fate it was to interview
Chichele, left him, after a few searching questions,
with a disagreeable impression that the new Governor
understood them and their machinations a good deal
better than they intended or approved.

VOL. I.

PRINCE CHARMING

Embroiled was he, as it were a mede,
All full of fresh flores, white and rede ;
Singing he was, or playing all the day ;
He was as fresh as is the moneth of May ;
Short was his gone, with sleeves long and wide ;
Well coude he site on hors and fare ride ;
He could songs make and wel endite,
Juste and eke dance and wel portrait and write. '

Canterbury Pilgrim.

Philip Ambrose was a young gentleman who had always
been a source of bewilderment to those who were
responsible for his education. There was a sort of
caressing familiarity about him, which his father constantly
felt to be impertinent, and yet did not know
how to check without surliness. An amiability which
nothing could ruffle, made any attempt to deal seriously
with him seem morose. His time at school had been a
disappointment, an anxiety and vexation. All his

monthly reports had been in one key, of which Mr.
Ambrose was absolutely sick. They all pronounced
Philip's abilities excellent, his disposition amiable, and
his tastes correct, but his character weak, and his
energy fitful and evanescent. 'He wants backbone,'
one of his complaining tutors had roughly said, and his
father had a cruel conviction that the criticism was just.
Every one agreed that he could do much better if he
only chose, but then young Ambrose never did choose,
and came back from school and college alike with
manifold stories of failure, and fluent explanations of
his reverses, which were so perfectly satisfactory to his
own mind that his father felt it in vain to endeavour to
refute them. ' My dear Philip,' he said, bitterly, ' you're
like that General whom Napoleon cashiered because he
had a perfect genius for scientific disasters.'

Only,' said Ambrose, with a sweet, pleasant smile,
*dear father, you can't cashier me, unfortunately, and
my disasters are not scientific at all, but accidental — I
am so frightfully unlucky.'

Well,' said his father, with a fatigued air, ' I am unlucky
myself; perhaps it is hereditary.'

You are lucky,' said Philip, taking his father's arm
with an air of affectionate familiarity, ' in having the

most dutiful, exemplary, and admirable son in the
world ; so now don't scold me any more to-day, there
is a dear, good father.'

Philip's shortcomings were rendered all the more
provoking by his occasional exhibitions of capacity for
better things. He had a good memory for anything
that pleased him, a delicate ear for rhythm, a pretty
knack of style, a nice perception of the delicate shades
of tense and mood, and a reverential love — the only
form of reverence, perhaps, that he ever achieved — for
the grand classical beauties, which form the inspiring
sentiment of academic life. His translations of Theocritus
brought a flush of pleasure into his tutor's cheeks,
and inclined even that austere functionary to condone
the wild irregularity of Philip's attendances at morning
chapel. He won the Newgate with a Prize Poem,
which, though ornate with conventional plagiarisms,
was admitted even by the stern censorship of Oxford
common-rooms to be extremely pretty. Its subject
was the Girondins, and Philip's description of Madame
Poland, as he recited it to an applauding audience of
undergraduates and young ladies in the Theatre, made
his father, who had come into Oxford for the occasion,
feel a proud and happy man. Many sympathising spirits

PRINCE CHARMING 21

understood his pride and joy; and brilliant were the
vaticinations on his behalf uttered by the young prize-man's
guests at the banquet, which he gave that night
in honour of his father and himself. Philip's delight in
his achievement, and his modesty as to its real merits,
were in the best of good taste. ' After all,' his father
thought, as he walked through the silent Oxford streets
back to his hotel, in a happier mood than he often
experienced — ' he is a clever fellow, and a nice fellow,
and I ought to be content.' Prize Poems, unhappily,
shed but an evanescent glory, and, despite his niceness
and cleverness, and the nicely-rounded couplets about
Madame Poland, Philip came as badly as ever to grief
in his next examination.

So matters had slid, and as the time for the close
of young Ambrose's college career drew near without
any achievement which promised future result, it became
a more and more pressing problem to decide
what could be done with so accomplished, irresolute,
and unpractical a young gentleman. None of the
ordinary professions, it was quite clear, would suit him.
The Church would have been a natural refuge for a man
of culture, who came of a stock with several good family
livings in its gift, and who was lacking in mental and

physical vigour; but the Church was, his father felt
with some bitterness, out of the question. Philip,
whatever else he was vague about, was perfectly clear
that he had no vocation for anything theological. His
father was a student, and had brought away from college
a deep-set reverence for Church history and Church
institutions, and a real veneration for Church authority,
however difficult it might be to ascertain its origin or
define its limits. He had succeeded early to a College
Eectory, and had brought to it all a student's tastes and
habits. Here he had been for years working, more or
less fitfully, at a heap of learned curiosities about the
early Councils. He had a project, too, more or less
incomplete, of some ' Studies in mysticism,' to which he
had devoted many laborious hours of affectionate research.
The result was the accumulation of a large
amount of somewhat obsolete learning, and of many
portraits of characters more remarkable for self-contemplative
piety than for practical robustness. He
was annoyed and discouraged to find that Philip could
not affect to take the slightest interest in his work,
and could scarcely speak of it with proper respect.
Once, when Philip was at home for the Long Vacation,
his father had proposed to him to read some of the

manuscript of his book, and Philip had readily assented,
as he assented to everything which cost no immediate
exertion or sacrifice. But he was in no hurry to begin
the perusal ; and when he did, Mr. Ambrose perceived,
in a few minutes, that the task was more than Philip's
energies could support. He fidgeted over it just ashe
had been used to fidget in old days, when Mr.
Ambrose had insisted on his sitting down in the
Library to his holiday task. Before he had read a
dozen pages, he got up with a sigh, put a marker into
the manuscript, and went out on to the lawn, where Mr.
Ambrose found him, an hour later, lying on his back
in the shade, smoking a cigar, and enjoying the pleasant
ripple of the stream, down to which the garden sloped.

That's a stiff chapter, father,' Philip said, apologetically,
' about the Council of Cappadocia ; it has given mea
headache. What fellows those old Popes were — were
they not? They stuck at nothing — did they? By
Jove ! there's a trout rising ; shall I go and get my rod,
and see if I can make him rise to me? Shall I try
that brown moth I had on yesterday, or what?'

Yes, Philip,' said his father, ' try it ' ; Philip went
for his rod, and Mr. Ambrose retired sadly to his study,
put away the discarded manuscript, and did not renew

his invitation to Philip to peruse it. ISTor did it occur
to Philip to ask for it again. He had no turn, it was
evident, for Church history.

Equally bootless were his father's attempts to interest
him in the mystics. 'I had always fancied,' Philip
said, when his father told him about his project, ' that
a mystic was the most useless and unintelligible thing
in the world — next to a metaphysician.'

'That,' said Mr. Ambrose, for once betrayed into
showing that he was provoked, ' is because you know
as little about theology as you do about metaphysics.
In my days it was the fashion at Oxford to learn something
of both.'

Well,' said Philip, ' I should like to learn something
about it too. Head me what you are writing, father.'

'It is St. Bernard,' said his father; and then Mr.
Ambrose read : ' External nature is but the shadow
of God, the soul His image. The chief, the special
mirror is the rational soul seeking itself. . If the
invisible things of God are understood and clearly seen
by the things which have been made, where, I ask,
rather than in His image within us, can be found more
deeply imprinted the traces of the knowledge of Him ?
Whosoever, therefore, thirsted to see his God, let him

cleanse from every stain his mirror; let him purify his
heart by faith.'

Now do you think that interesting ? '

It is beautiful said Philip, for a moment sobered
into seriousness.

You are right.' said his father : ' there is nothing so
beautiful as a pure and elevated soul busying itself
with the noblest and most sacred thoughts : " ardentis-
sima divini caliginis intuition." Dear fellow, Life would
be a poor affair without something of that sort in it.
Sometimes, do you know, Philip, I am afraid that you
are a heathen, — a pleasure-seeking, pagan, apologetic
Greek.'

'Come, come, father,' said Philip good-naturedly,
anxious to ward off a lecture on his own shortcomings ;
don't call a poor fellow bad names. I am a very good
Christian, you know, and a very dutiful son. All the
same I could not be a mystic if I tried ever so, could I ?
That is not the way that Nature made me.'

No,' said his father ; ' but I would give my right
hand, Philip, to see you for half an hour in earnest
about something, mysticism or anything else. You
had better go out now and see if you cannot catch
another trout.'

CHAP.

Scenes such as these had made it a recognised fact
between father and son that Philip could not go into
the Church. Mr. Ambrose would have regarded it as
an irreverence, his son as a bore. Nor did any other
opening present itself as acceptable. Philip himself
was completely at a loss, and provoked his father by
his serene indifference to the subject, and his lighthearted
unconsciousness that it was his business, anymore
than anybody else's, to decide how he would make
a living.

Something, he felt certain, would turn up. Certainty
of this kind is only another word for indifference.

Then the Indian Civil Service was suggested, and
Philip, after a spell of Mr. Wren, passed a very decent
examination, and was numbered among the future
officials of Cerulean. For once he had gained a practical
success. His father felt an inward relief that Philip
was at last tied down to some definite line of life, and
could no longer trifle with existence as if it were a
bouquet of roses. Philip accepted his fate without
demur, rather enjoyed the vague idea of life in India,
and was less unhappy than his father felt that he ought
to be at leaving his home.

To Mr. Ambrose, in his heart of hearts, his son's

choice of a profession was the crowning disappointment
of the long series to which Philip had accustomed him.
He had lived on for years in that lonely Eectory, and
the one thing that he really cared about was this lighthearted
lad, who was going off now, without a pang,
to seek his fortune in another hemisphere. He had
pictured to himself all sorts of pleasant schemes in
which Philip figured as his companion; and now all
vanished into air. Philip little suspected the pangs
which his adoption of an Indian career was costing his
father. He felt no pang himself. He was conscious of
a sort of fondness for his home ; but a little of it went
a long way. He never had been able to fancy how his
father could live on in that dreary house, consorting
with stolid farmers, and preaching, Sunday after Sunday,
to a handful of boors. It came, he supposed, from his
father having been a College Don, and so having learnt
to like a sort of half-monastic life.

But Philip had no touch in him of the monk. For
him a week of it at a time was as much as he could
stand ; so the thought of leaving it fell very far short
of agony. INIr. Ambrose, on his part, buried his disappointment
deeper and deeper under a calm exterior ;
hardened his heart as best he could against a tenderness

which he felt to be irrational ; and set himself
with Stoical philosophy to endure his son's departure
as he had borne other troubles, each one as it came.
He so far indulged his affectionate mood as to accompany
the young adventurer to Paris, and at Paris he
fell in with an old friend, and Philip closed one chapter
of his life with a romantic incident.

vale! vale!

Injurious Time now, vdih a robber's haste,
Crams this rich thievery up, he knows not how :
As many farewells as be stars in heaven,
"With distinct breath and consigned kisses to them,
He fumbles up into a loose adieu,
And scants us with a single, famished kiss,
Distaste with the salt of broken tears.'

The Hotel Melancthon was a quiet little Parisian
establishment, frequented by the country folk of Mr.
Ambrose's neighbourhood in their visits to the Continent.
The host was an enterprising Swiss, the hostess
a lady who had, in earlier life, served as a maid in
various comfortable English families, and who had
managed, on her marriage, to retain and expand her
English connection. Hither Mr. Ambrose used to
come because he knew the ways of the place and its
prices, and was sure of a good bath, an airy room, and a
wholesome dinner without ruinous expenditure. Hither,

too, came Sir Marmadiike Croft, — baronet, banker,
country gentleman, politician, and theologian, — and
with him his two maiden sisters and his orphan niece.
What mysterious influence led Sir Marmaduke year by
year to exchange the comforts, pleasures, and dignities
of his home for the vicissitudes of foreign travel, we
shall never know. It was not, presumably, amusement ;
for amusement was not one of the forces in life with which
Sir Marmaduke reckoned ; and his tours can hardly, in
the most liberal acceptation of the word, have been regarded
as amusing. His view of Paris and French life
in general was not that of sympathetic approval. It
presented itself to his mental vision as an irreligious,
expensive place, in which the ill results of Popery,
Sabbath-breaking, republicanism, and other objectionable
phases of human error were aggressively displayed.
There were, however, a few fine old faded mansions
which recalled to Sir Marmaduke the gaiety and flirtations
of his youth. There were, too, in Paris good little
English societies, where excellent people met from time
to time to raise a feeble protest against the prevailing
enormities, and to proclaim the truth, as they modestly
termed their views of morals and theology. At these
functions Sir Marmaduke was accustomed to assist with

a prowess that gave him great satisfaction. But these
performances gave less satisfaction to his companions,
and to his niece Camilla they were occasions of the
acutest suffering. The general feeling of discomfort
and repression, in which she habitually lived, rose at
these moments to absolute effervescence. Camilla's
mental constitution was such as continually to prompt
longings for a bolder flight than her present surroundings
allowed her. Her mother, Sir Marmaduke's youngest
sister, was considered to have been the flighty member
of the family. She defied its traditions of dull decorum,
scandalised her elder sisters by outbursts of ill-regulated
sentiment, and shook the family creed to its very base
by an independence of thought, taste, and action, which
Sir Marmaduke — a man with firm prejudices and a great
deal of fine, old, stupid blood in his veins — could neither
understand nor condone. Her want of self-control had
been at last exhibited, with distressing emphasis, in her decision
to marry, against her brother's wishes, a too carmine
officer of small means and extravagant habits, who
shortly afterwards committed the crowning extravagance
of going off on a campaign and getting killed in his first
engagement. His young widow had, for a year or two,
with her little daughter endured, with what grace she

might, the penance of Sir Marmaduke's grave and reproachful
charity. From this she presently escaped by
dying herself. Camilla since then had been the guest
of her uncle and the victim of her maiden aunts. The
two worthy ladies had laid their feeble heads together
for the purpose of oppressing her. They discovered,
even in her childhood, the symptoms of hereditary
flightiness, and warned by the mother's example, they
determined to crush it in the bud. Camilla, though she
had now arrived at the mature age of fifteen, was still
untamed. She had proved a reluctant and refractory
pupil in the arts of conventionality. Her sorrows were
mitigated by long intervals of school-life, which, however,
had the ill result of making her home seem all the
more unendurable on her return. The general sense
which her surroundings had produced upon her was one
of impending suffocation. There must be a world outside,
— Camilla instinctively felt, — beautiful, interesting,
wonderful, alive with every sort of pleasure and excitement.
Around himself Sir Marmaduke seemed to
create a sort of moral vacuum of decorous inanities and
realities, — an oasis of dulness into which no really
living thought from without could ever find its way,
or could have existed in it for an instant if it did.

At Paris Camilla always experienced this disagreeable
sensation with especial acuteness. Here loss the
world, she knew, — the grand stream of life raging along
only a few yards away, — rapid, sparkling, brilliant, mysteriously
delightful ; but her uncle's party were safely
moored in a little, dull backwater ; no eddy could find
its way to them to disturb the stillness of the pool.
When the regular sight-seeing of the day had been done,
the due quota of churches and picture-galleries inspected,
and her uncle was engaged with his home correspondence,
and her aunts had retired to repose, there
were still hours when Camilla felt in need of anything
rather than repose, and the quiet hotel began to feel
like a sort of respectable prison. She would have liked
to glide invisibly through the knot of servants who
guarded its portals, and fly out, — she knew not whither,
nor cared, so long as she could indulge a passionate
desire to escape from something she felt to be asphyxia
her. She longed for a fresh atmosphere, however
boisterous and shaken by whatever storms. Surely
kind Heaven would some day send the refreshing gust
that was to revive her drooping soul and to make real
existence begin.

The hoped-for relief presented itself in the form of

VOL. L D

two unexpected visitors, whom Camilla, coming into
the salon one afternoon, in a condition of despair,
found calling upon her aunts. She had often seen
Mr. Ambrose before at her uncle's, and Philip, too,
had occasionally, in his holidays, come with his father
on a visit to the 'Vines.' Neither of them had,
hitherto, impressed themselves on her mental consciousness
with any deeper import than attached to a
neighbouring clergyman and a Harrow schoolboy. She
now hailed both in the light of deliverers. They came
from the outer world, and broke down the sense of
isolation which her uncle's society always engendered.
Both visitors lost no time in securing their position in
Camilla's good graces, which, on the first impression,
she had assigned to them. Mr. Ambrose was agreeably
gentle and courteous, and treated her with a politeness
that Camilla felt very gratifying. Philip's boisterous,
restless, irrepressible good humour were a delightful
relief. It was like a rush of ozone into a stifling
atmosphere. What Camilla especially wanted just
now was contact with the outer world, and Philip at
once established connection of a most efficient kind.
He was enjoying Paris and its pleasures to the full,
and described his enjoyment with infectious vivacity.

He and his father had been to half the sights of Paris, —
amongst the rest to various amusing theatres, each of
which Philip described with natural frankness. He
had ' crammed ' modern languages at Mr. Wren's to
good purpose, talked French fluently, and joked, criticised
and mimicked with the daring of an experienced
Parisian. Even Sir Marmaduke felt himseK reduced
to playing second-fiddle to this impressive youth.
Philip accepted the role of his instructor without the
least hesitation, explained to him his mistakes about
the French and their doings, and laughed away the
elder ladies' pedantic scruples with an airy politeness
that could not be resisted. Camilla, as she listened to
his pleasant, eager talk, felt herself almost afloat on the
great stream of life.

Both parties were equally well pleased with a fortunate
meeting. Sir Marmaduke was tired of haranguing
his sisters, and found it a relief to have some
other men of the party. It was only natural to go
about Paris together ; and the fact that Philip was ina
few days to disappear on his journey to India and to
begin to belong to another world, gave their brief time
together, Camilla felt, a strange, melancholy charm,
and made it right and natural to waive all ceremony.

'When people go to India, for how long do they
go ? ' she asked.

Oh said her companion lightly, ' twenty or thirty
years, I believe.'

'Now twenty or thirty years at Camilla's age seems
a lifetime. If Philip had been going to start for the
moon, the departure could hardly have seemed more
absolute. She felt that the idea of it exercised a sort
of mysterious influence over herself, and invested the
pleasures, partaken in such exceptional circumstances,
with something of romantic, half-mournful interest.

The days sped all too quickly away. Every one
seemed determined to make them as pleasant as possible.
Sir Marmaduke relaxed his accustomed severity of moral
tone, and was several degrees less dogmatic and didactic
than usual. The two maiden ladies, infected by their
brother's mood and encouraged by his example, became
absolutely frisky. Mr. Ambrose took the greatest fancy
to Camilla. Philip was charming to every one, and
used the privileges of his position with grace, dexterity,
and a courage which almost took the two Miss Crofts'
breath away. The limited range of these ladies' experience
had never yet exhibited their august brother in the
position of being ' chaffed,' nor would they, antecedently,

have regarded such a proceeding as within the scope of
human audacity. Philip, however, was quite unawed,
joked with Sir Marmaduke quite at his ease, quizzed
him with a graceful deference, and carried him off in
triumph for a game of pyramids in the billiard-room
of the hotel. As for sitting still in the salon all the
evening when one was in Paris, the idea, Philip felt,
and made all the party feel, was not to be heard of for
an instant.

Let us see what there is to-night at the theatres,'
he said, gaily, taking up a newspaper. ' Here is the
list — Ambigu Comique — '' Bien n'est sacre" etc. etc.?
Palais Royal: Les escapades de — hm-hm. That will
hardly do — will it. Sir — for the ladies ? '

The two Miss Crofts looked at each other as if
expecting some frightful physical cataclysm to follow
upon such unhallowed suggestions.

Sir Marmaduke did not look as if a French farce at
the Palais Royal was likely to suit him any better than
the ladies ; but Philip's irrepressible cheerfulness was
in truth somewhat of a relief to the monotony of his
Paris visit, and Sir Marmaduke's spirit rose to the
occasion.

The Paris stage is a national curiosity and a painful

one he said, oracularly. ' Its tone is deplorable — low,
corrupt, debased, infamous.'

Camilla knew what this sort of beginning meant, despaired
of the play, and made up her mind for a sermon.

The days of the great writers,' continued Sir Mar-mature
— by this time getting himself into full swing
for a speech — ' the days of the great writers, Corneille,
Racine, Moliere, when the stage was a real school of
fine manners and refined thought '

Are happily not extinct,' cried Philip, cutting short
Sir Marmaduke's oration with an evident impatience
that Camilla shared but dared not to exhibit : ' Look
here. Sir, there is Polyeucte at the Comedie Fran-raise,
and Moliere's Le Mariage Force to follow.
What could you wish for more ? Let me go and get
a box for us all.'

The Miss Crofts' hearts began to beat. They had
never been to a French theatre ; they had never been
so nearly going as at this moment. The very proximity
of such an event was agitating. As for Camilla,
lier vehement desire drove her into unusual action.
She seized Sir Marmaduke's hand and added her
entreaties to Philip's courageous counsels. Her uncle
began to waver.

I should like Camilla to see some fine acting he
said, ' and to hear French properly pronounced and
spoken. The right use of such a language is a fine art
in itself.'

It is,' said Philip, resolutely. ' Now, Sir, do let me
go and order the box.'

Sir Marmaduke was not a man to be hurried. His
mind travelled, as he liked to travel himself, with a
dignified leisure.

Le Mariage Ford — dear me,' he said — ' I remember
having a good laugh over that when I was a boy. We
all used to go to the French theatre when I was a
young man : all young Englishmen did as part of our
education.'

Yes,' said Philip, ' and that is why English gentlemen
talk French so beautifully.'

Camilla, with whom Philip had been taking off Sir
Marmaduke's British French, half an hour before, ina
highly amusing manner, cast her eyes downward, as
if to refuse participation in this piece of audacious
hypocrisy. The victory, however, was now nearly won.

By the way,' Sir Marmaduke said, ' Polyemte is all
right and proper, — is it not V

'Eight and proper!' cried Philip, with a laugh, —

why, all the people get converted to Christianity and goto
martyrdom in turn, — it is as good as a sermon : don't
you remember. Sir V

'Yes, I remember, of course,' said Sir Marmaduke,
with that unscrupulous generosity to himself which
people generally exhibit in matters in which their
memory is in question. 'Well, Philip, go and get a
good box for tomorrow, and we will make a night of it.
What do you say, Ambrose ?'

Hurrah !' cried Camilla, clapping her hands in the
excitement of so unexpected a victory ; while the two
Miss Crofts, more self-restrained, performed little silent
hurrahs in their own gentle bosoms, and felt that Mr.
Philip's influence over their brother was something quite
remarkable. Mr. Ambrose readily agreed. Sir Armature,
in high good nature with himself for being so good-natured,
became positively facetious, quizzed his sisters
about old forgotten topics, which brought the blushes
into their faded cheeks, and was evidently resolved to
recall, so far as might be, the pleasures of his youthful
days in Paris.

We will go and have a dinner at a restaurant. I will
be host. Camilla has never dined at a restaurant, and
1 am heartily sick of the Melancthon cuisine. Ambrose

you will come, will you not? and Philip and I will go
this afternoon and order dinner at the Trois Frees.
They used to have capital chambertin there in old days.'
And so the old gentleman went off, arm in arm with
Philip, and came back an hour later, delighted with his
companion, having confided to him a host of his juvenile
experiences, and actually smoking a cigarette which
Philip had given him to try as a new experience.

The Miss Crofts looked on in silent amazement.
They had often been told that they lived in a revolutionary
age ; but now they felt it.

The next night at the theatre concerns us only in sofar
as a little incident, which occurred in the course of
the evening, and was witnessed by no one but the two
parties concerned, converted the mutual liking, which
had been growing for some days between Mr. Ambrose
and Camilla, into a friendship, which, gathering strength
through after-years, became a permanent possession to
them both. After each act they all changed seats, and
as the evening went on, it became Philip's turn to sit in
front. On either side sat one of the maiden ladies.
Philip, however, was quite lost to their neighbourhood,
and, indeed, to everything but the story enacted on the
stage, which he watched with intense interest, and

CHAP.

applauded at intervals with vehement delight. Behind
him sat his father, to whom, in truth, Sir Marmaduke's
hilarious mood had not been very congenial. The fine
dinner at the Trois Frees had been dust and ashes :
the choice chambertin had quite failed to raise him out
of the melancholy mood which had settled upon him
like a gathering cloud, growing but the blacker at every
effort to dispel it. Every one was laughing around him.
Le Mariage Fotc6 was exquisitely funny. Sir Armature
had forgotten his dignity, his party, the prospects
of the Church, — the crimes of the Communists — his
unlet farms — everything, in the unusual sense of intense
amusement, and was shaking in hearty guffaws, — the
maiden ladies were rippling in gentle machinations, —
Philip was breaking out into gleeful bursts of laughter
at each new turn in the piece, — meanwhile poor
Ambrose felt his soul growing darker and colder. His
sorrow was taking possession of him. There was the
lad who, with all his shortcomings, was dearer to him
than anything in the world ; who had plagued him so
by his weak will and passionate desire for enjoyment ;
who had fallen so often and come home to be forgiven
and restored to favour and petted as before ; and who
was now leaving his father and his home, practically,

for life, and going, with a light heart, to seek his fortunes
in a world, so strange, unknown, remote, — and all, it
seemed, without a pang. How would he fare, poor
fellow, with no kind, fatherly hand to catch him as he
stumbled, and to help him on his pilgrim's path, so
beset with dangers and temptations ? Then Ambrose's
thoughts wandered back to years long past, and showed
him Philip again lying in his cradle, a little smiling,
crooning baby, and a sweet gentle form bending over
him, — the dear companion of the only really happy
hours that Ambrose had ever known. And then he
recalled a dark day when that tender friend, about to
leave him and life for ever, had held his hand in hers,
and bade him be mother as well as father to the child
who was presently to be motherless. All this was a
very familiar train of thought to poor Ambrose. That
last scene had stirred his nature to its inmost depths,
and as it closed, all the colour and taste had faded out
of his existence. Nothing since then had ever seemed
really to touch him. None of the prizes of life had fired
his ambition even if they had come within his reach.
His book — never yet beyond the stage of fragmentary
manuscript and half finished sketches — had grown
obsolete before it was born. He had failed in everything,

nor had his failures cost him any keen pang of
regret. But he had, at any rate, kept his vow to his
lost darling. He had loyally, with a pious constancy,
put all his heart into doing his very best for Philip.
He had grudged him nothing. He had pinched and
scraped in order that Philip might have everything in
abundance. He had never said an unkind word to him.
He had borne from him, again and again, things that
were hard to bear. He had forgiven — when to forgive
was almost weakness : and now the trust was done, and
Philip was to sail away into the mysterious, unknown
future, and make his way through life on his own
account. In another week he would be gone, and
Ambrose would be back in his lonely Eectory, — lonelier,
and grayer, and duller than ever.

I have done my best, — I have loved him,' Ambrose
thought sadly to himself, ' and he cares no more about
leaving me — not so much as when I sent off Need
Hazard the other day, and the poor old chap turned
round in his stall and whinnied as I patted him for the
last time.' Mr. Ambrose sat in a dark corner of the
box, and no one but Camilla had the least idea that he
was not enjoying the play as much as the rest of the
world. She, too, was not finding the performance as

amusing as she felt that she ought. Something was
jarring on her nerves. She was feeling sad at Philip's
departure, — sad for herself, sad for Philip, and sad for
the sorrow which she knew it must cost his father.
She watched Mr. Ambrose in his reverie with eyes benton
the stage, but with thoughts evidently far, far away ;
and as she watched and pitied, Ambrose, happening to
turn, bent his eyes — by this time dim with tears —
suddenly towards her, met hers, and read in them the
touching story of a kind woman's sympathy. A sudden,
tender impulse seized Camilla. She felt a pang of
compassion. Poor, sad, solitary father ! She longed to
comfort him or to share his sorrow. She put her hand
on his as it lay beside her, with a tender, furtive, half-frightened
air of pity. She pressed it for an instant ;
it was a moment's act ; it was nothing ; but its meaning
was lifelong. Many a time in after years did Ambrose,
in hours of solitude and gloom, feel that kindly touch.
The curtain fell presently amidst peals of hilarious
applause. Mr. Ambrose gave Camilla her cloak, and
took care of her through the crowd, with a sort of
paternal tenderness. They walked home together along
the Boulevard, still ablaze with light and gaiety. Philip
was on her other side. Camilla's heart ached for father

and son. ' Good-night, dear,' Mr. Ambrose said to her
in his gentle, pathetic way, as if he were blessing her,
Camilla felt. They had become fast friends.

As the day for his departure came close, Philip grew
increasingly demonstrative in his tenderness. He petted
his father in a hundred little gracious ways. He
accepted the petting that everybody gave him with
amiable appreciativeness. His manner and speeches
had a caressing gentleness. The two Miss Crofts fell
into a melting mood, and watched the opportunity to do
Mr. Ambrose or his son some little kindness. They
sallied out one morning and bought Philip a cigar-case ;
Miss Augusta presented it with a blush and a little
nervous air, which told that she was really moved.
Camilla felt that she had suddenly come upon a chapter
of existence that was painfully spirit-stirring. One day
Philip insisted on his father coming with him to be
photographed.

We will be done together, dear father, arm in arm,
just as we used to like to stroll about the garden at
home. It will be a pleasure to have that in India.' So
they all went to a famous photographer's, who exercised
his best skill in producing a pretty picture of father and
son, and did full justice to Philip Ambrose's upright form,

comely features, bright aspect, and general picturesqueness
of appearance. ' But, dear old father, how grave
you look in it,' Philip exclaimed, when the copies came
home. 'One of them is for you,' he said to Camilla,
'and, in return, you must give me one of yourself,
please. I shall like to look at it, and remember these
pleasant Paris days.'

I shall like to remember them, too,' said Camilla,
with her sweet, serious air, and the exchange was forthwith
effected. The whole time seemed to Camilla
strangely interesting and romantic, and to justify and
even demand proceedings that were not commonplace
or conventional. Such meetings, such friendships — so
sweet — so soon to end — how full of pathos did Hfe
become when stirred by incidents such as these.

Once, as the party walked homeward across the
garden of the Tuileries, Philip and Camilla fell to each
other's lot, and Philip began sketching the career which
his youthful imagination, enriched by the study of
various Indian biographies, suggested as his own. ' At
first,' he said, ' you ride about the country and hold
trials under big, spreading banian trees. You have a
lot of horses, and you fill up your spare time with
hunting pigs and tigers, and shooting peacocks and wild

deer. Then you distinguish yourself. There is an
4meute, and you come out strong in the way of calmness
and resolution, — or there is a famous tacit, who is a
terror to the neighbourhood. You start off at night
with a handful of policemen, ride a hundred miles to
his lair, post your little force round it, descend the
chimney of the house where he is sleeping, and appear
at his bedside. Moral ascendency carries the day.
The tacit surrenders, and you carry him off in
triumph. This sort of thing goes on till you become
a Lieutenant-governor or some great swell of that
sort.'

Well,' Camilla had said with great animation, ' I
hope you will catch plenty of dacoits and come back a
great swell, as you say, — with a great reputation, — a
Lieutenant-governor at least.'

Philip was in a melting mood; and charmed with
his companion, he was touched and delighted with her
ready enthusiasm. ' Yes,' he said ; ' and when I do, I
shall come with all my honours and lay them at your
feet. That will make them worth having.'

Light words, and lightly said : Philip himself could
not have exactly defined what meaning he attached to
them, except that he was very much touched by his

charming companion. She was enough of a child to
make it permissible to talk fond nonsense to her. His
own position, too, justified an affectionate outspokenness.
He was a lad without a shilling of his own, except the
moderate endowment with which the Indian Civil
Service rewards the labours of beginners. One of the
compensations of such a lot is that one's love-making is
not taken too seriously. Philip thought no more of the
scene except as an agreeable incident which had thrown
a romantic charm over these few days at Paris. He felt
at the moment extremely affectionate and in need of
saying something tender. Camilla treasured it up in
her recollection, a ray of heavenly light that illumined
her dreary existence and filled her girlhood's dream-land
with a thousand visions of delight. He would come
back, this charming friend, some day — and then — and
then — what golden landscapes does fancy draw for
young and hopeful hearts.

The excitement and the interest intensified as the
inevitable last moment arrived.

You must come with us to the station,' Philip said
to Camilla, ' and keep my poor father's spirits up when
he comes back without me.'

Yes said Camilla, ' I should like to come.'

VOL. I. E

CHAP.

'And I shall like to have you,' Mr. Ambrose said
kindly — ' my kind and tender little friend.'

And so the three started. At the station Philip
became very tearful, threw off all convention, and gave
his father a hearty, childish hug with no sort of mauvaise
Iwnte. How natural that, when it came to Camilla's
turn to wish good-bye, in that great busy crowd of total
strangers, Philip's brotherly feelings should require
something more demonstrative than the frigid handshaking
of an everyday farewell. 'Give me a kiss,
dear, to think about in India — sweet, sweet Camilla ! '

Every one was in too great a bustle to notice the
little group — Camilla's pretty child-form — as she stood,
with the blush still lingering on her cheek, smiling
heroically through her tears, unconscious of everything
but her present interest — Philip holding his father's
hand and trying to encourage him, with the cheerfulness
which, even, in the darkest hour, youth has close at
hand — Mr. Ambrose, grave with the sorrow of a man
old enough to know beforehand what his sorrow will be
to him and to feel its weight.

Meanwhile the hubbub roared higher and higher : a
belated passenger came panting up, just in time to be
hustled into his place : at the next carriage a voluble

group of French ladies were indulging in some hysterical
good-byes. 'En voiture !' cried the bustling officials,
ruthlessly slamming the carriage-doors, and cutting
short a long string of leave-takings. A bell rang, flags
waved, the engine gave an admonitory shriek ; the
train went clashing and banging out of the station into
the darkness beyond, and Mr. Ambrose and Camilla
drove back to the Hotel Melancthon with aching
hearts.

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITy OF Illinois

SIR THEOPHILUS Peace

Faites galoper vos agents,

Extirpez les erreurs funestes ;
Mais, pour Dieu, soyez bonnes gens,
Et, si vous pouvez, plus modeste.'

If there was one thorn in the rose of Chichele's official
existence which marred its sweetness more than
another, it was the troublesome activity of his next-door
neighbour, Sir Theophilus Prance. Sir Theophilus
was at this time the most conspicuous civilian of his
day. He was Governor of the adjoining province, where
he had made his presence felt in acts and speeches, which
excited the enthusiasm of the populace, and the alarms of
the prudent, and which provoked the sneers of cynics like
Chichele, who despised alike the popularity and the arts
by which it was achieved. His popularity was but one
phase of his success, for Sir Theophilus had been
immensely successful. He had exhausted the supply of

Indian honours while he had still youth enough to be
ambitious. He meant to go home and achieve something
in England — something more, too, than the respectable
interment in the committee-rooms of the India
Office, which bounded the hopes of his less pretentious
compeers. To preside at charitable meetings, to swell
the mob of second-rate busybodies at a Social Science
Congress, and wait for a seat in Council, was not the
programme which Prance imagined for himself He
had resolved on parliamentary life, and instinct and
antecedents alike led him to the camp of advanced
liberalism. He had been a Liberal all his life. Liberalism,
moreover, was the winning cause, and the winning
cause had a charm for Sir Theophilus. Too busy
to be discerning, and too well satisfied with himself
to be anxious to discern, he had reached middle life
with a touching belief in the formulae of his party, the
soundness of its principles, and the goal to which they
were tending. If, as it has been asserted, every genius hasa
vein of scepticism, and moments of mistrust in its
mission and itself. Sir Theophilus lacked this stamp of
genius ; for his faith in himself was firm, unwavering, and
unembarrassed by scruple, unclouded by doubt. It was
the sort of faith that can move mountains, and Sir

Theophilus was quite prepared to try it on the Himalayas.
A temperament of this order is more alive to
broad effects than to nice shades of distinction, and
Sir Theophilus, naturally, applied the commonplaces of
English politics, without any of the narrowing reservations
which an English mob - meeting of ordinary intelligence
unconsciously takes for granted. His convictions
were eternal truths, whose applicability, no less than
their verity, was as unquestionable in the East as in
the West, and which needed only vigorous enforcement
to achieve demonstration and acceptance. Thus
Sir Theophilus not unfrequently found himself in
conflict with the fears, tastes, and convictions of those
whose temperament shrank from innovation, whose
sagacity protested against the peril of experimenting
with human nature, or whose experience supplied a
practical refutation of theoretic hopes. Such collisions
cost him no pang of hesitation, no whisper of self-distrust.
It was natural that minds dwarfed in the narrow
confines of bureaucracy, reared on the unwholesome
dietary of officials, should lag behind his flight or
refuse to move at all except in an opposite direction.
Sir Theophilus went his way, self-satisfied, confident,
rejoicing ; and he had reason to rejoice. To be certain

that one is right, to enjoy an equally absolute conviction
that other people are wrong — to be placed by fortune
on an eminence, from which one can carry out one's
views on a grand scale, amid the plaudits of adherents
and the general admiration of the universe, how should
not Sir Theophilus accept his splendid role with thankfulness
and pride ! So he went from height to height,
from one glory to another, till he achieved a sort of
provincial deification. Even here, however — such is
mortal destiny — there was an mari aliquid in the
cup of joy — the slave in the Eoman triumph, the
corpse at the Egyptian feast. Europe and Asia might
applaud, and newspapers and deputations exalt the
hero of the hour beyond the roll of common men ;
but his own colleagues and subordinates denied his
divinity and ridiculed its assumption as vulgar, political
acrobatism ; and discriminating friends in England, while
vociferously applauding the performer, were, even now,
giving him a quiet hint that the interests of his party
demanded that the performance, delightful as it was,
should come to a close at the earliest possible date.

Sir Theophilus, however, was in no mood to take the
hint. He was riding on buoyant waves of popularity,
and wafted by breezes, so balmy, so caressing, that the

CHAP.

particular direction in which they were bearing him
became a matter of indifference. All must be well
where all was so pleasant ; and Prance, as he perused
the well-rounded peroration of his last manifesto on the
true basis of power, or the last address which assured
him of the undying gratitude of emancipated India for
all that he had done for her emancipation, was not to
be troubled by the reflection that his secretaries saw
through him, that his contemporaries deprecated his
reforms as unreal, premature, and dangerous, and that
privileged onlookers, such as Chichele, could not be
induced to evince the slightest sympathy with his doctrines,
or the least approval of his acts.

Chichele, no doubt, found much in Sir Theophilus
that was intensely antipathetic. He resented his shallowness,
his self-satisfaction, his glib hardihood of
thought, his inveterate habit of mistaking hackneyed
commonplaces for eternal principles. There are natures,
it must be supposed, to which the India of to-day presents
itself merely as a convenient arena in which to
exercise their political or social hobby-horses, — a tabula
rasa expressly designed for the inscription of theories
or arguments which otherwise might fail to get a hearing
in the hurly-burly of English politics. A man, it

is felt, may think pretty much what he likes about
things so alien, so different, so remote from home experience
as the shadowy politics of Asia, and may say
what he thinks without risk of too violent refutation.
There are other minds, like Chichele's, to whom India,
such as a century of English rule has made it, seems so
replete with unknown and incalculable influences, with
unseen and unpreventible dangers, that anything like
confidence about it is the attribute of a fool. A chapter
of accidents, among the strangest and most romantic
that history records, has resulted in an equilibrium of
transcendent forces. It has its own law of stability;
once disturbed, it may defy the universe to restore it,
and its crash may mean a second chaos. Sir Theophilus
never troubled his head about the equilibrium ;
Chichele never forgot it. Prance's political courage
never sank below a cheerful assurance that all would
go well with the British Empire and the great Liberal
cause ; Chichele's never arose above the hope that, as
the chapter of lucky accidents was already a long one,
one more lucky accident might, when the next emergency
arrived, be added to the chapter. Thus it was
natural that Chichele's powers of politeness should be
sometimes strained to conceal his disapproval of his

neighbour's proceedings, and that, in the secret conclaves
of the Cerulean Court, many things were said
about Sir Theophilus which that gentleman (who,
amongst other opinions, had a very good opinion
of himself) would have been excessively surprised to
hear.

Chichele was a man of calm temper and measured
words : but the mornings on which Prance's speeches
appeared in the Cerulean papers, specially telegraphed,
in impressively large type, and enforced by applause
editorials, his equanimity was shaken and his language
strong. It was on these occasions that he found Mr.
Montemmmm's society especially congenial. Montemmmm's imperturbable
cynicism, his sarcastic mood, his disbelief
in short cuts, his hard common sense, his contempt for
fine phrases and pretty theories — to say nothing of a
Junius-like faculty of denunciation — were, Chichele
felt, a real comfort. Montemm at such times used to
blow off the steam of his indignation in highly condensed
phrases of vituperation and in official orders,
which made the Wear and Tear Department a real
scourge to the unfortunate officials who came within its
reach. As, from the effects of the south-west monsoon,
or some other subtle stimulant of decay, everything

wore out in Cerulean more quickly than it ought, its
reach was pretty wide, and Montemm, it must be feared,
was not a general favourite. In private life, however,
his severity was mellowed by good humour and enlivened
by a dry wit, and, after a day spent in withering
public delinquents, he would come over, tamely
enough, to Chichele's little dinners, and sit down to
whist with a determined air, as if thankful for a sanctuary
into which human imbecility could not intrude,
where no reformer could suggest a revolution, and where
every blunder avenged itself by immediate exposure
and certain retribution, which could be measured in
rupees.

One of the ways in which Sir Theophilus Prance
gave his neighbour the acutest annoyance was his habit
of making his headquarters the rendezvous of all sorts
of objectionable tourists, reinforcing them with supplies
of congenial information, and then sending them on to
Cerulean with letters of introduction, which Chichele
could not ignore without impoliteness, nor act upon
without extending his hospitality to guests whose tone
he heartily disliked and disapproved. It was part of
Sir Theophilus's programme to keep open house and to
welcome any sympathising spirit with encouragement

CHAP.

and good cheer. The sympathising spirits responded
freely to the call, and Prance's residence became a sort
of house of call for radicals and revolutionists on the
loose in Asia. Here they found the mood, the method,
and the material for which they were in search. Here,
so rumour whispered, were laid the foundations of many
a fair edifice of criticism, theory, or denunciation, which
shortly established the reputation of a pamphleteer, or
ran a lucky magazine into a second edition. Here
hints were dropped, which reappeared, a few weeks
later, in the form of parliamentary interpolations,
each of which imputed a blunder, an oppression, or a
job, until the laconic contempt of an under-secretary
revealed them in the light of ignorant and silly impertinences.
Here amateur administrators qualified
themselves to demonstrate the shortsighted apathy of
the Government, the cynical aliquis of the Civil Service,
the Sybarite habits of idle and overpaid officials,
the crushing taxation, the beggared Exchequer, and the
generally prostrate and bleeding condition of the country
at large. Here young India met silly England, and
embraced with the affectionate recklessness of youth.
Here it was that 'My. Frontinbras — poet, diplomatist,
and incendiary — came to drink the inspiration for a

metrical tirade against his country, which some thought
blasphemous and others dull, but all admitted to be a
tissue of absurdities. Here Sir Joseph Plant, of the
Tillage and Manure Inquiry, intoxicated with the heady
beverage of Sir Theophilus's talk, and oblivious of the
humbler claims cf chemicals and rotation crops, broke
out into a dissertation on the art of governing India,
so consummately foolish, that the Secretary of State,
on decency intent and ashamed of so ridiculous a counsellor,
buried it, as speedily as might be, with the dull
lii janet of a Blue Book. Here Stain, the renegade
civilian, rested in his tours of treasonable propaganda,
and consulted, in camera, with the wire-pullers of disaffection.
Prance's headquarters had become, in facta
large and active officina for the manufacture and dissemination
of inflammatory material, and more of the
inflammatory material than Chichele cared to have
found its way to Cerulean.

Chichele had learnt by experience how the infliction
of these visitors could be best endured. He was accustomed,
on their arrival, to immure himself in his study
on the plea of a severe pressure of public business.
Entrenched behind a barricade of despatches and offices
he awaited the onset ; and if ever his guests

CHAP.

requested to be put in communication with a judicious
cicerone, he was used, with a certain Saturnine pleasure,
to hand them over to Mr. Montemm. This naturally
ruffled Montemm, and the result not unfrequently was
mutual dissatisfaction. Montemm retired from the encounter
with protests against the dispensation which
brought all the most idiotic travellers to India; his
interviews with the conviction that, of all narrow,
bigoted and illiberal bureaucrats, the Head of the
Coerulean Wear and Tear Department was the worst.
They came to him with a vague, pleasurable idea that
India was a stage, on which ' the great Liberal Cause '
was being exhibited in a phase of rapid progress for the
edification of Asia and mankind : that freedom of the
press was accomplishing its beneficent mission ; that
public opinion was successfully combating administrative
abuses, and trial by jury judicial oppression ; that
a great nation was rallying for self-assertion ; that, with
the development of institutions, as near as possible on
the model of those in force at "Westminster, the future
of India, as a prosperous, enlightened, and orderly member
of the community of nations was assured. The
effect of this sort of thing on Montemm's nerves was to
create a morbid activity, which discharged itself in

electrical discharges of cynicism, and the gloomiest possible
prophecies as to the future of mankind at large and
India in particular. He would point out that the process
of filling some of the oldest bottles in the world with the
strong wine of modern civilisation was a highly perilous
one alike for bottles and bottles ; it should be done — if
it must be done — with extraordinary precautions, like the
iron-masks in soda-water manufactories. Chaos being
the condition to which all mundane things naturally
recur, it was interesting to observe in India the rapid
growth of the conditions under which such a recurrence
would be inevitable ; and, the world being a collection
of colossal jokes, no joke could be better than that of
an English democracy administering a vast military
despotism on the basis of universal equality. Explosions
were another great natural and, probably, beneficent
law, and it was curious to speculate how soon
India would explode. The chances of an explosion
were not, Montemm went on to observe, rendered more
remote by people who went about the country — like
children with lighted sticks in a powder magazine —
delighted with the brilliancy of their performance and
sublimely unconscious of its risks. This sort of thing
is not exhilarating, nor, Montemm's visitors felt, congenial

to radicals in search of aids to radical faith. They
went away sadder, if not wiser, men, regretting no doubt
that they had quitted for such a stony moor as this the
fair mountain pastures where Theophilus had led them,
with a shepherd's care, from one agreeable demonstration
to another of the safest and best-administered of all
possible worlds.

A KINDLY WELCOME

In speech, in gait,
In diet, in affections of delight,
In military rules, humours of blood,
He was the mask and glass, copy and book.
That fashioned others.'

Young Ambrose made a better start in India than his
father had ventured to hope for him. The disappointing
barrenness of his college career had assumed in Mr.
Ambrose's mind a deeper tinge of failure from a long
list of debts, which had to be disposed of, somehow or
other, before the young civilian could be allowed to
leave England.

I am very sorry, dear father,' Philip had said with
his usual facile repentance, ' I had no idea that I owed
anything like as much. Now I shall earn something
and I will pay you back.'

jSTo/ said his father, who had an instinctive dread

VOL. L F

CHAP.

of Philip's good resolutions, ' make no rash promises.
You will find it hard enough to live on your pay without
any old debts hanging round your neck. You start
clear now. Keep out of debt for the future, like a good
fellow, and I will forgive you your Oxford follies, and
try to forget them.'

The tears sprung to Philip's eyes. ' You are too good
to me, dear father ; you always have been, and I have
been a bad son to you. I know these horrid debts of
mine have given you a lot of bother, — haven't they now?*

I have had to borrow the money,' said his father,
wearily, 'and to insure my life. It will make me
poorer, of course, and be an inconvenience. However,
I must not buy so many books, and I mean to sell
Eed Hazard. I shall get on very well with Piobin and
the gig.'

Now Eed Hazard was a fine old favourite hunter,
on which Mr. Ambrose used to ride about the lanes of
his parish, and sometimes, when the hunt was near,
would go to the meet, have a chat with the neighbouring
squires and farmers, and get a gallop with the
hounds. It was, Philip knew, his father's only out-of-door
amusement, and it was a great one. The doctors
greatly approved it as a main condition of his father's

health. A sharp pang of shame and remorse cut him
to the heart.

Sell Eed Hazard ! no,' he cried, in sincere consternation
; ' you shall never do it, father. I would sooner
not go to India. Let me borrow the money myself.'

No, Philip,' said his father, with grave decisiveness ;
that would cost us both a great deal more. You
would have to pay high interest ; I know you could
not do it. All I beg and pray now is that you will
keep out of debt, and not come to me again to be seton
your legs.'

'Never! never!' cried Philip, and for his first year
in India he seemed in a fair way to turn his good resolutions
to practical account. He threw himself with
eagerness into his new work ; by a spasmodic effort
mastered a vernacular language, and passed his examinations
early and well. All gave good promise of a
brilliant career.

Everything just now looked bright to him. His new
home was full of life and colour and picturesque effects.
The great wide roads, shaded on either side by grand
avenues of primeval-looking trees, whose huge knotted
trunks, confusion of sinuous boughs and pendant down-growth
of suckers, made each one like the beginning of

a small forest in itself, — the endless streams of wayfarers
trudging into the city, — the bullocks moving
deliberately on their task, as if in constant protest
against a world where motion was a necessity, or chewing
a peaceful cud in some dusty halting-place beside
the road — the villages nestling thick amid clumps of
palms, with innumerable little blackamoors playing in
the sand, or trotting by mothers hardly less children
than themselves, or scampering into the jungle at the
stranger's approach ; outside, the blazing parade-ground,
where, morning after morning, the rigid red battalions
wheeled and formed, and the horse artillery went rattling
by in a dusty whirlwind of its own creation, or roared
its harmless thunders to the sleeping world around —
the inland lakes where the toil of past generations had
accumulated a precious store, presently to find its way
to the steaming rice-beds — the Englishmen's homes
with their deep verandahs and vast expanse of thatch,
as if shrinking from the cruel glare of the outer world,
the sea-breeze, which, as the day warmed, came raging
inland with life and refreshment upon its wings, — the
bay, where the sea was heaving and breaking in an
ancrry surf-line on the shallow shore, — the fishermen,
astride the bare log that serves for boat, riding across

the ridges of the waves as they came homeward with
the spoils of their morning's fishing — all fell on Philip's
young eye with the effect of a fresh and graphic picture.
He was untravelled, and this first bit of travelling was
full of charm.

There were other charms, too, about his new life, of
which Philip presently became aware. He was in the
land of hospitality.

Coerulean society, with one consent, accorded a
kindly welcome to a newcomer, whose good looks were
an excellent letter of introduction, and whose manners
implied a frank eagerness to please and be pleased.
Mr. Montemm forgot his accustomed cynicism in the discovery
of a youngster, who took whist seriously and
played a better rubber than he did himself. The
young ladies felt a similar satisfaction in Philip's proficiency
at lawn tennis. Chichele found Philip's cheerful,
boyish gossip a pleasant reminder of his undergraduate
days. jars. Paragon, with a keen eye for
masculine merit, pounced at once on the fortunate
youth, — in the most unblushing manner, threw over
three of her established favourites in his behalf, and
rained all her sweetest influences upon her latest protege.
Philip, in common gratitude, was bound to find Mrs.

Paragon not the reverse of fascinating, and accepted
with alacrity the opportunity of making his first essays
in Indian society under the guidance of so accomplished
a patroness. The Fates had decided that he was to
remain at headquarters for a while ; and Mrs. Paragon
set all her genial powers at work to make his sojourn
in a world of strangers as little melancholy as might
be. She gave a rechercM little dinner, the express
raison d'Stre of which was to help Philip to intimacy
with the people whom he would like to know, and who
would like to know him. She talked this dinner over,
beforehand, with Philip, told him about each of the
guests, and admonished him as to the directions in
which it behoved him to be specially polite.

I hope you will be duly grateful,' she said ; ' I have
done the most disinterested thing in the world ; I am
sending you into dinner with our choicest Coerulean
beauty. Miss Eashleigh, the daughter of our General.
When once you have seen her you will have no eyes or
thoughts left for any one else. In self-defence I have
asked Mr. Montemm — I must have some one to talk tome
while you and Miss Eashleigh are flirting ; for you
will have a desperate flirtation ; my prophetic eye foresees
it even now. You will think her adorable ; and so

she is : I wish I were a man to flirt with her myself.
I believe, though, by your guilty looks, you have begun
already.'

Philip, with some blushes, was obliged to confess
that he had been to pay his respects at the General's,
and had found Mrs. Eashleigh gracious and the young-lady
as charming as Mrs. Paragon described her.

Well,' said Mrs. Paragon, ' if I allow you to take
her into diner, you must promise me not to devote
yourself to her for the rest of the evening. Talk to Mr.
Chichele about politics or art, or the last new book you
have read — I never read anything myself, I must tell
you, life is too short and books are too long — or ask the
General about the battle of Ahmednugger, where he got
his Victoria Cross ; or get that little cross patch, Montemm,
to snarl to you about the last batch of Globe-Trotters
who have invaded his domain. You cannot afford to
go about the world simply amusing yourself. You see
I am a businesslike woman.'

I see you are a very kind one,' Philip said, with
effusion, for Mrs. Paragon's interest in his fortunes, and
zeal to promote them, gave him a new and most agreeable
sensation. Xo woman had ever before troubled
her head about him or his affairs ; and what flattery is

more seductive than that unspoken form of it, which
bids the happy recipient understand that he is watched
by sympathetic eyes — that his failure or success, is a
matter of importance to another besides himself. Philip,
as he looked at his bright, kindly companion, beaming
with high spirits, at the same time busy with plans to
make things pleasant for him, began to think that he
should like India very much indeed.

Mrs. Paragon's dinner convinced Philip that she was
not only a good-natured friend, but an admirable hostess.
Expert in all the arts by which mankind can be enslaved,
this was the art she understood the best, and practised
with the most effect. Her guests always came to her
with the peace-giving assurance of an excellent dinner
and congenial company. In such a mood men are easily
pleased, so that half Mrs. Paragon's battle was won
before the action commenced. Her table was small, and
no power on earth would have induced her to enlarge
it ; but round it flowed a stream of pleasant talk which
the vivacious mistress of the feast kept ever at the proper
pitch of effervescence, and guided, with a fine dexterity,
in the direction where most amusement would be had.
Dinners occupy so considerable a fraction of human
existence that it is strange that so many people go

through a dyspeptic existence without an effort to
improve them. 'Talk to me Talleyrand said, 'of a
pleasure which comes every day and lasts for an hour.'
Mrs. Paragon's dinner lasted just an hour, but that
hour was one of pure enjoyment, checkered by no contretemps,
prolonged by no delay, dimmed by no possibility
of failure. If Mrs. Paragon was frivolous, she
was never ill-natured, and on this occasion she was
sweetness itself. Philip had never experienced anything
of the sort before, and it all came to him with the
charm of a new sensation. Mrs. Paragon let him clearly
understand the entertainment was for him.

Come a few minutes before dinner,' she had said,
*so that we may have a little chat;' and so eight
o'clock had hardly done striking before Philip arrived,
well pleased at his privileged position, and found the
enchantress arrayed in artistic simplicity — putting the
final touches to a little trophy of fruit and flowers that
was to grace the centre of the banquet.

Not too high to talk across, or look across, you see,'
she said ; * I hate dining in solitude, shut off from my
opposite neighbour by a wilderness of flowers or a barricade
of silver. Nothing pleases me so much as the
human face divine. I shall see how you behave, and

miiid, I allow no tete-a-tetes at dinner. There are the
people coming. What distracting punctuality ! I must
fly to the drawing-room. You may follow in a minute,
and remember about the General and Ahmednugger.'

]airs. Paragon, in providing an agreeable companion
for Philip, had not been forgetful of herself. Chichele
took her into dinner, and left her with little leisure to
listen to any one else. On her other side was Mr. Caro,
a devoted adherent, who, she knew, would be more than
compensated for not having a lady to himself by being
allowed to come and sit by her. Mrs. Paragon considered
Caro indispensable to the success of her entertainments,
and Caro did his best to maintain his prestige
as an agreeable necessity. He seemed, his friendly
critics were accustomed to tell him, to have walked,
ready made, in typical completeness, out of an American
novel. There was the same high finish, the same air of
exaggerated culture, the same gentle, innocent amativeness,
copious but well controlled — the same comfortable
cynicism, the same sense of having seen through everything,
ascertained its delusiveness, and acquiesced with
cheerfulness in the discovery. His tolerance was unbounded,
for it was co-extensive with his indifference*
He was, however, a severe critic of champagne, an

unflinching dogmatist on whist, entertained deep convictions
as to the right way of dressing ortolans, and
rose to absolute enthusiasm about Circassian mats and
old Indian pottery. From these sublime topics he condescended,
in intervals of weakness, to the duties of life
and the problems of humanity. The human problem,
in which he just now took most interest, was his
hostess.

Montemm, who was a great recluse, and regarded the
social amusements of life as amongst its heaviest burthens,
had, for a wonder, been inveigled to a ball the night
before, and was naturally the object of some gentle
satire on Mrs. Paragon's part for this lapse into
frivolity.

'I am glad you came to look at us, if nothing
more,' she said. ' A ball would be an interesting study,
I suppose, if one had time to philosophise.'

But why philosophise when one can valse ? ' said
Caro.

Ah, but,' said Montemm, * some of us can't valse, and
are driven to look on. For my part I improved my
opportunity. The astronomer De Vico, I was reading
somewhere, made 10,000 observations of the rotation
of Venus, and lengthened its period by twenty-two

seconds. I shall soon be in a position to contribute a
like discovery to the planetary science of Coerulean
society.'

'And said Mrs. Paragon, appropriating her share
of the compliment without hesitation, 'how fast do I
go?'

You ! ' said Montemm, one of whose foibles it was to
humour Mrs. Paragon's taste for homage, and to lavish
on her the politeness he refused to the rest of the
species —

"You move
Too fast for science, not too slow for love " —

just the right pace, I am convinced, to make you a
delightful partner. I looked on with envy, and only
wished that I were two-and-twenty and knew how to
dance.'

I shall be delighted to teach you,' said Mrs. Paragon
; ' you shall come away with the ladies after dinner,
and Miss Eashleigh will play to us, while I initiate
you into the mysteries of the art. I object to men's
standing about at balls, doing nothing themselves, and
criticising other people's dresses and behaviour.'

*You are safe from me as far as the dresses are
concerned,' said Mr. Montemm ; ' I know nothing about

them and I hear too much. The modern Novel, especially
the American one, is always full of fashion-plates —
the ambrosial dresses that fitted like gloves, and all
that sort of thing.'

Naturally,' said Mrs. Paragon. ' It is most important
that they should : it is a great feature of modern
life

Of course,' Chichele put in. ' The survival of the
fittest means the survival of the woman whose dress
fits her the best. That is the way that women rule
the world.'

But, do you know,' said Mrs. Paragon, ' that there
are 180,000 more unmarried women in England than
there are bachelors to marry them? What is to become
of them ? '

I can think of nothing,' said Chichele, ' except
allowing the 1000 richest men in England to have 180
wives apiece. It would add a charm to wealth, and
modern wealth — your Mackay and that sort of person
requires a new field. I suppose 180 wives — each
with an account at Madame Elise's — would make an
impression on the resources even of an American
millionaire who has "struck oil," had a "boom" in
hogs, or a ring in a silver lode.'

'But, only think,' said Mrs. Paragon, who seemed
much impressed with the idea, and spoke now with the
air of a person exhibiting an unquestionable mathematical
demonstration, ' 180,000 of them ! that makes
the odds 180,000 to 1 that no woman ever gets an
offer! What a comfort to have got safe to the
paradise of matrimony against such fearful odds 1
My dear Miss Eashleigh, what do you think of your
chance ? '

'It is something,' said Miss Eashleigh, 'to have
179,999 companions in misery. If nothing but polygamy
will save us, I submit to the inevitable.'

But,' said Montemm, ' I return to my charge, women
think too much about dress and nonsense generally.
Every woman should have an object.'

I agree,' said Mrs. Paragon, ' but no woman should
he one. That is just the point ; and then, think of our
education ! Just look at me ! '

^ Delightful mandate,' said Montemm. ' For my part,
I am dead against education. I had an examination
for a clerkship in my office yesterday, and found a
young gentleman, who was under the impression that
romans de cape et d'epee " was French for " Romans
from head to foot." '

An excellent translation ! ' cried Chichele. ' I hope
you gave him the appointment. It is no worse than the
radicals in England, who fancy that, when Tory gentlemen
talk about striking " pro aris et focus," they mean
their hares and foxes.'

But that is what they do mean,' said Montemm, ' as
Sydney Smith said, a long while ago, " God save the
Queen " means " God save my country seat, my townhouse,
my precious rents, my balance at my bankers,
my seat in Parliament, and a great many other comfortable
things with which no patriot could conveniently
dispense." '

But, talking of pretty dresses, now,' said Mrs. Paragon,
instinctively apprehensive of an approach to serious
conversation, ' what did you think of Miss Aureus V

Miss Aureus was the daughter of a distinguished
tourist, who had recently been exploring Cerulean ; she
was a topic of general interest. Her toilettes were by
acclamation admitted to be incomparable; but public
opinion was divided as to her good looks. Mr. Chichele
liked to tease Mrs. Paragon by his uncompromising
championship.

She is a most beautiful young woman,' he now said,
with authority.

A beauty, of course said his companion, ' but how
common ! '

Common ! ' cried Chichele ; ' I wish they were
commoner ! What a lovely smile ! '

A maid-of-all-work smile suggested the other.

'It's a very pretty maid at any rate said Caro,
which is something.'

It is all jealousy said Montemm ; ' that is another
feminine failing, if one is to be candid.'

And being candid is a masculine failing,' said Mrs.
Paragon, who was just a shade ruffled by the extravagance
of Chichele's partisanship of a woman she disliked,
' and not always a pleasant one.'

'But you like us candid, do you not?' asked
Montemm.

'Sugar candied said Mrs. Paragon, recovering her
equanimity, and leaving a sweet smile behind her as
she rose to carry off the ladies to the drawing-room.

Mrs. Paragon, as during dinner she looked at Ambrose
across the flowers, had found no reason to be
dissatisfied with the results of her admonitions. He
paid his homage to Miss Eashleigh with discreet
reserve, and showed as little inclination as she did to
fall out of the current of the several conversation.

Miss Eashleigh greatly liked amusement, and all the
gentlemen, Michele among the rest, were prepared to
amuse her. Her smile was so bright, her laughter so
gay, that even Montemm was glad to be able to provoke
it. Philip went home that night with the conviction
that his lines had fallen in pleasant places, and that
Mrs. Paragon and Miss Piashleigh were, each in her
own way, among the most delightful women he had
ever known.

VOL. L

DESCENSUS Avernus

I can get no remedy against this consumption of the purse : borrowing
only lingers and lingers it out, but the disease is incurable."


As the months went on, Philip was moved from one
post to another with a rapidity which implied that the
dispensers of patronage regarded him as a promising
recipient of their favours. In fact, he was very pleasing
; above the average in ability ; and Harrow and
Christ Church had turned him out with an air of
distinction and a keen polish of culture which contrasted,
much to his advantage, with the commonplace
ruggedness and unpretentious diligence of many of
those with whom he found himself consorted. From
the first he was a marked man ; and high officials, ever
on the look-out for any sign of exceptional ability, soon
o-ave him the chance of showing of what metal he was

made. Ambrose had naturally an eye for style, and
without conscious effort wrote his reports and statements
with the ease and neatness of an Oxford Essay.
He got on capitally with his subordinates, who were at
once won by his ready affability and impressed by his
magnificent ways. The native gentry found him
courteous, accessible, and a gentleman. Even those
whom he was constrained to disoblige, recognised that
he was a good-natured fellow, who had no touch of the
rough swagger of office, and whose natural tendency
was the reverse of tyrannical. His native friends, with
the sensitive intuition of Orientals, recognised in him —
what is always a delightful discovery — the possible
perpetrator of a job, — not a job in any criminal sense,
but that kindly, gracious exercise of personal interest
in one's behalf, the consciousness of which helps to
lend a sense of calm and comfort to existence. Ambrose
was evidently a Sahib, from whom such pleasant
influences Avould be apt to emanate, and whom, accordingly,
it was expedient and — so kind Heaven willed —
not difficult to conciliate. So Philip soon had a little
court of smiling, obsequious admirers who gave him to
understand, in terms of pleasant flattery and by a
judicious deference, that his highness's pleasure was

law, and his highness's favour the great object of then-existence.
His highness felt this a congenial and
agreeable condition of affairs. Ambrose had a natural
turn for good-natured despotism, — for having his own
way, and for pleasing others when to do so did not
interfere with his own gratification. It was right,
everybody said, for an English official to be influential
and here was influence in a practical and pleasurable
form. Muggins and M'Trant, two uncouth north
countrymen who had passed in the same examination
as Ambrose — and, it so happened, a good many places
above him — showed no such happy aptitude. Philip
laid this flattering unction to his soul in grasping the
situation. They toiled at their work in a way that
their ornamental and gifted companion felt to be really
servile. They went about, looking like mechanics, in
shabby, old clothes and outrageously hideous sun-hats,
presenting nothing to the world that was in the
slightest degree impressive. Their appearance at the
lawn-tennis court and reading-room, — where the polite
society of Philip's first station assembled in the evenings
for exercise and conversation, and where he was
conspicuous by his good looks, smart clothes, and
general magnificence, — was really a disgrace. Magnificence,

however, cannot, even in Cerulean, be achieved
for nothing ; and Ambrose speedily found that the few
hundred rupees, with which a grateful Government
rewarded his services at the end of the month, proved
an income which was wholly inadequate to the necessities
of the case as he understood them. If a man is
to receive native gentlemen with becoming dignity, and
to impress and influence European society around him,
he must have a decent house and a decent cook, and
a few dozen of wines, such as a gentleman need not be
afraid to drink himself or ashamed to set before his
friends. The exigencies of the occasion demanded also
a brand of fine cigars and their liberal consumption.
One of the duties of a district officer was, everybody
acknowledged, to be constantly in the saddle ; and
three saddle-horses were the very least that a conscientious
view of his obligations in this respect allowed
Philip to regard as an adequate equipment. He picked
up a couple of good Australians at not much over
£100 apiece, and a nice little Arab, which did well
enough for hacking about the station and lending to
any young lady who happened to be in need of it, and
who, by way of acknowledgment of his good nature,
would allow Philip to accompany her in her morning

rides. This little Arab was in constant request. The
supply of young ladies in need of early exercise, at
other people's expense, proved to be unfailing. Philip,
too, was so good-natured about it and dispensed his
favours with such agreeable modesty, that many of the
fair recipients considered that they were doing him a
favour when they rode his horses and occupied his
time. Philip's bill to Abdoolah, the Arab Dealer, was,
however, a long one. Nothing, so he assured his father,
could be a greater mistake than to fancy that India was
a country where horses were to be had for the asking ;
and yet it would never do not to have a good stable.
Muggins and M'Trant might go shambling about the
district on their shabby ponies, with their clumsy shoes
and their trousers halfway to their knees, just as they
might hob-a-nob over their whisky-toddy in the humble
bungalow, which they shared for the sake of economy,
and which, with its dusty garden-path, camp equipage,
and camels, — its great bare whitewashed walls, its
tables littered with ofi&ce memoranda. Civil Procedure
Codes, and Administration Reports, — its passages
beset with clerks and moonshees, squatting in every
available corner, filled Philip's aesthetic soul with
absolute horror. A gentleman's horse should be a

gentleman, and Ms house an abode where ladies may
come for five-o'clock tea without incongruity, — where
Generals may be regaled without a loss of dignity, and
where the business-side of life may be kept duly subservient
to the tastes of a cultured and refined society.
So Philip's drawing-room speedily became one of the
prettiest places in his Station ; and society, which
always rejoices in every new form of gratuitous entertainment,
congratulated itself on the advent of a young
official, so alive to the duties of the position, and so
ready to perform them with magnificent indifference to
the pecuniary results of the performance. Everybody
speedily recognised the fact that Ambrose kept an open
house, and rushed to the conclusion that he was possessed
of private means. A large number of his friends
showed the greatest alacrity in enjoying the rechercM
dinners which Ambrose and his Major Domo concocted
for their benefit. The fairest hands in Cerulean often
wrote the menus, and oracular mouths pronounced Philip
Ambrose's Perrier Jouet the best champagne that had
been tasted in the Station for many a day. What with
horses, champagne, elegant five-o'clock teas, and well-considered
dinners, Ambrose found himself, before two
years were past, not only at the end of his resources,

but — what was of more immediate importance — at the
end of the accommodation which the local European
bank was disposed to afford. He had no alternative
but to confide his embarrassments to a portly native
gentleman, who had been bowing and scraping in his
verandah, on every possible occasion, for a twelvemonth,
and who now, with more obsequiousness than ever, made
Ambrose feel that he conferred a favour instead of
receiving one, when, in exchange for his note of hand,
he allowed the trifling sum of Es. 10,000 to be placed
to his credit at his bankers.

As Ambrose arrived at the bank for the completion
of this little transaction, he . met M'Trant, who was
coming away with a rueful face.

Are you going to remit to England ? ' he asked ;
Exchange is down again, and likely to be worse, the
Manager says : I have to send £20 a month to my
people at home, and, by Jove, it costs me more each
time I do it.'

Ambrose said that at present, luckily, he had no
occasion to remit money to England, and went into the
bank with a heavier heart than usual, and with something
almost approaching to a pang in his conscience.
There was something, after all, he acknowledged to

himself, to be said for men like M'Trant, despite their
hirsute ponies, shabby clothes, and nondescript manners.
His searchings of conscience, however, whatever they
might have been, were cut short by the practical necessity
of hurrying home, inasmuch as Mrs. Eashleigh and
her pretty daughter were coming to have tea, and to
admire some lovely bits of old Indian pottery, which
Ambrose — already a judicious and daring virtuoso — had
picked up the week before in the bazaar.

AN ENTANGLEMENT

Prolongs. — •' I do know,

When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
Lends the tongue vows : these blazes, daughter,
Giving more light than heat — extinct in both.
Even in their promise, as it is a making.
You must not take for fire.'

There are, it has been well observed, a great many
ways of being the loveliest girl in the world. There
are transcendent beauties whose very pre-eminence in
loveliness strikes a sort of moral chill. We admire
them as we do some distant snow-summit, set about
with impracticable precipices, dark ravines, and chilling
glaciers. They rise in superb isolation, far, far beyond
the reach of ordinary humanity. Here and there some
adventurous Alpine-Club man may try to invade the
august precinct and scale the dizzy height, and comes
back, humbled, footsore, and benumbed, even if he

escapes without actual catastrophe. To the generality
of mortals they are about as interesting as the top of
Monte Rosa. There is, happily for mankind, another
and more genial order of feminine perfection, — the
charm which appeals less to respectful admiration than
to the warm pulses of sympathetic interest — a beauty
which wears its honours with affability and graciousness
not too high for human hearts or human attainments, —
which is ready for intimacy, which invites friendship,
and accepts the ready homage of mankind with a cordial
and appreciative frankness.

It was in this latter, agreeable view that Cerulean
mankind recognised Miss Eashleigh as the most charming
of her sex. She was greatly admired, and the
admiration, which she aroused, was not only well
deserved but grudged. No one, not even Mrs. Paragon,
who had a great faculty for satirical comment, and
who, with the natural instinct of self-preservation,
might have been expected to use her gift for the depreciation
of a dangerous newcomer, — not even the two
Miss Scratches who, under the embittering effects of
neglect and years, had hardened into a mood incompatible
with goodwill either towards man or woman, —
nay, not even their mother, a well-known female Tartar

CHAP.

of the most uncompromising order : — no one, in short,
had a word to say against Miss Eashleigh. She had
come out, two years before, to join her parents in India.
Her father, the General in Command of one of the
Cerulean Divisions, was a soldier of many campaigns
and much well-earned renown. The manly expanse of
Its wide chest scarcely gave room for the glittering
array of medals which commemorated a long list of
successes or of actions which deserved success. General
Eashleigh was justly proud of his country and his profession,
— the regiment he had often led to action, his
honours, and himself But he had felt that, with his
daughter's arrival, a new splendour and new delight
had broken into his existence. His feelings were
speedily shared by the rest of the community. Miss
Kashleigh's presence vibrated with an agreeable pulsation
through the Cerulean body corporate. Her
English beauty, fresh from its island home, her radiant
expression, young and credulous of joy, her air of
courage, her cordial manners, her ready appreciation of
all the pleasant aspects of existence established her at
once as an acknowledged Queen of society. Her ascendency
had been undisputed. Votaries in abundance had
been anxious to assure her of her position, in their

thoughts at any rate, as the paragon of womankind ;
but none of them had, in the slightest degree, come near
her heart, or even aroused her interest. All men pronounced
her adorable, but none of them found adoration,
except when practised at the most respectful distance,
at all an easy task. What Miss Eashleigh
wanted was, not adoration, but amusement ; and the
men with whom she came in contact, speedily discovered
that, if they wished their offerings to be acceptable, the
incense burnt at her shrine must be as highly spiced as
possible with this latter ingredient.

With the exception of a fugitive affection for one of
her cousins when she was quite a little girl, Florence
Eashleigh was inexperienced in the cares and joys of
love, nor did she feel in the least impatient for the
arrival of this sentimental stage of existence. She was
perfectly happy with her father, who petted her as so
charming a daughter deserved to be petted. Her mother
was equally indulgent, still more sympathetic, — shielded
her from the fatigues of society, — banished, unbeknown
to her, its less agreeable elements, and guided her course
with dexterity, none the less sedulous for being unobtrusive,
through the shoals and shallows which, even in
the microcosm of an Indian Station, beset a handsome

girl's existence. Her father, who had been a notable
pigsticker in his younger days, was still a gallant rider ;
and Florence found riding with him — when her riding
had ceased to be a topic of paternal criticism — a most
delightful way of beginning the day. When on field
days she accompanied him to the parade-ground, a
thrill of admiration pervaded the staff, melted the
sturdy sergeants and corporals, and flashed, like an
agreeable electric shock, through the ranks. By general
admission she lent lustre to the scene, and inspired
each martial bosom with chivalrous devotion. It was
natural that every one should wish to make love to her.
The difficulty in doing so arose, not from any active or
conscious resistance on her part, but because the mood,
in which such things are possible, was wholly absent.
It was hopeless to be sentimental with one whose gaiety
was never overcast, whose merriment never knew a cloud,
and who found the whole of life amusing. Some of the
disappointed ones disparaged her as heartless ; only the
utterly reckless denounced her as a flirt. Miss Eashleigh
was no flirt, she was simply enjoying life and the many
pleasures and excitements which it brought to her.

It was inevitable that Philip Ambrose, keenly susceptible
to every form of attraction and promptly

obedient to its impulses, should, at an early date, be
numbered among the other adorers. He had succeeded
conspicuously in making himself agreeable. He tempted
the General with quiet dinners and a well-assorted
rubber, which his own proficiency rendered especially
interesting. He laid siege to Lady Eashleigh's gentle
soul with five-o'clock tea-parties, at which flowers, fruit,
and a little music added new charms to a refined repast.
With the young lady herself he had established relations
of the pleasantness familiarity. Perhaps the obvious
absence of any designs upon her recommended him ;
perhaps his unreflecting good nature was congenial ;
perhaps the simple explanation was that he was young,
good-looking, an accomplished valser, and generally a
charming fellow ; or, perhaps, it was that, from some
subtle sympathy. Miss Raslileigh experienced a sudden
access of brilliancy in her own conversation when
Ambrose was her companion. He struck a chord in a
key in which she found it easy and agreeable to perform.
Florence considered her parents to be perfect in
every respect but one ; they cared not a whit for books
and all that a love for books implies. Miss Eashleigh
was often in want of a congenial volume. This want
Ambrose was ready to supply. He read everything,

told her of all the best novels, the most interesting
reviews, busied himself in procuring whatever book she
had a fancy to read, and was always ready to discuss
it with discriminating vivacity. He had brought her
Daniel Deronda, when that interesting study in female
vagaries first delighted society.

I don't care a straw for Gwendolen,' he said, as
they discussed the story afterwards ; ' she is a commonplace,
selfish beauty, dressed up in a halo of metaphysics.'


But,' said Florence, ' I am certain that you would
have found her irresistible. Fancy yourself now with
a charming creature, dressed with romantic elegance,
majestic, miserable, confiding, stretching her beautiful
tapering fingers, in fresh, exquisite lavender gloves,
towards you, praying for guidance, and hinting at interesting
confessions, all the while throwing unutterable
glances out of her slanting eyes.'

I should have begun a vehement flirtation on the
spot,' said Philip, 'of course. I suppose it was his
strength in refusing to do that which gave Deronda
his ascendency over her.'

'Yes,' said Florence, 'and his being a Jew. The
true genius must always have a strain of Semitic blood

in him, somehow or other. But for my part, I should
have snapped my fingers at Deronda. I don't like
George Eliot's dreamy young men near lyell enough to
think of being fascinated by them.'

And,' said the other, ' when the beautiful Miss
Raleigh has found the world's apple turn to bitter
dust, into whose ear will the confidence be poured V

I shall not, at any rate, choose you for a confessor,'
answered his companion ; ' I should suffer in silence.
Not that I mean to suffer ; I don't intend my apple to
be dust. It is a lovely, rosy pippin, full of delicious
juice to the very core. I love it, rind, pips, and everything.'


Dissembler ! ' cried Ambrose, ' I dare say you have
some corroding disappointment already of which your
heart is aching to disburse itself. Every woman of
sentiment is broken-hearted before twenty.'

I leave you to pick up the bits of mine,'
cried Florence, airily, ' and make what you can of
them.'

Interesting employment !' said Ambrose ; ' but fragments
will not do for me, I like broken hearts as little
as you do. They should be fresh, strong, complete, and
without a flaw, like mine.'

VOL. L H

How uninteresting!' cried Florence; 'sometimes,
Mr. Ambrose, you make me think that I dislike you
very much.'

And I,' answered her companion, ' always find you
adorable ; what an unfau^ world we live in.'

Young Ambrose was not alone in finding Miss
Eashleigh's society an exhilarating relief from the
commonplace of existence. Mr. Chichele did all that
judicious flattery could do to turn her head. But then,
as he observed in flattering her, hers was a character
that nothing could spoil. Armed with this comfortable
assurance, Mr. Chichele felt no scruple in behaving to
her in a manner which would have given good ground
for vanity, if Florence had had any material in her composition
which flattery could set aflame. The admiration
of so critical, experienced, exacting a connoisseur was,
in truth, a great compliment, and it was a compliment
which might be safely accepted. Isle fact could be
better established as an article of social faith in
Cerulean than that Chichele was not a marrying man.
His past was wrapped in mystery, but it was certain
that he had burnt his finders in marriage, and regarded
the institution with suspicion and dislike as a delusion
and a snare —

He wedded a French dancing girl
And had his heart danced over in return,

some one had said of his matrimonial misadventure.
At any rate he had no thought of repeating the experiment
in his own person. Marriage was a general
necessity for obvious reasons, and might even be pleasant
for certain people and at certain times of life.
But then there are many necessary and pleasant things
which it is well to leave to other people to enjoy.
Chichele was a cautious talker, but he occasionally let
fall observations which were felt to be extremely
cynical, and some of his most cynical sayings had been
about the happiness of his married friends. He chose,
it was obvious, to figure in the world as a person with
whom it would be absolutely fatuous to associate
the notion of conjugal felicity. Many people, many
mothers, had felt inwardly what a pity it was that, as
Mr. Chichele was so nice, it should never occur to him
to share his niceness with some dear, faithful companion
for life. But all had recognised the stern fact that he
never would entertain such a wish, and had accepted
his solitary condition as settled in the immutable
decrees of fate. This was a state of things which suited
bliss Eashleiojh exactly. ]Mr. Chichele was immeasurably

the best company of any one in her circle of
acquaintance. He knew the world, he knew political
life, he knew society, and he had culled from each a
rich crop of shrewd judgments and curious recollections.
He had been friends with a great many interesting
women — whom Florence only knew of as great ladies
of the world. It was not in human nature not to
he gratified by finding oneself among the number of
women whom he considered interesting. Chichele now
made Florence understand with great distinctness his
desire to be ' friends ' with her, and she accepted the
proffered friendship with unhesitating alacrity. He
brought her the very things she wanted, and he brought
them in just the way she liked — a way which safeguarded
kindness from awkward complications and
robbed intimacy of its possible dangers. It was an
immense comfort, Miss Eashleigh told herself, to have
a friend whose kindnesses need not be suspected of
masking a battery of sentiment, and with whom one
might be confidential without the risk of his becoming
inconveniently confidential in return. If any one
had proposed to her, and she had felt in difficulty,
Chichele would, after her parents, have been the first
person to whom she would have looked for counsel.

Chichele accepted the role which she assigned to him
with unquestioning cheerfulness, and seasoned his
amusing stories with a great deal of excellent advice.
It had not hitherto occurred to Florence that she mio-ht
ever need to ask his opinion about Philip Ambrose.
None the less when, some months later, the C cerulean
Gazette announced that Mr. Philip Ambrose had obtained
six months' leave from a date which was startlingly
close at hand, Florence Eashleigh became suddenly
conscious of a feeling about the matter that was something
different from the absolute indifference with which
she regarded the comings and goings of mankind at large.
The appearance of such a feeling took her by surprise
and challenged inquiry. Why was it that she cared ?
Florence asked herself this question, and the ingenious
sprites which hover in the inner consciousness
of each of us — the ready ministrants of self-deception
— assured her, at once, that it was but natural
to regret even the temporary absence of one whose
high spirits, good nature, and vivacity gave a zest
to life wherever his presence happened to make itself
felt.

A little further reflection satisfied Florence, who was
honesty itself, even in her self-communing, that she

was not, in truth, as serenely indifferent to Philip
Ambrose as she had imagined. After all he was infinitely
nicer than nine-tenths of the men whom she
came across. He had a natural refinement, and did
not, as many men did, on the first approach to familiarity,
betray fatal faults of taste, fatal barriers to
any approach to real intimacy. If she and Philip
sometimes sparred in conversation, it was because they
had enough in common to make it worth while to
explore their differences. Anyhow she felt a decided
interest in him and his fortunes. He had described to
her his adventures in Paris, and had shown her the
picture of Camilla, which had greatly taken her fancy.
That,' he had said, ' is the little girl who wished me goodbye
in the station at Paris ; is not she pretty ? ' 'It is
a most sweet, touching face,' Florence had said, and,
being a vehement matchmaker for every one but herself,
she forthwith had sketched out mentally a romantic
project that Ambrose should, some day or other, go home
and marry this pretty child-friend. And now Ambrose
was to go home forthwith, and Florence admitted to
herself that the prospect of his departure, and of his
possibly resumed adoration of his child - friend in
England, was not altogether without its mixture of

melancholy to her. His absence would make a blank,
which would not easily be filled, in her little world.
Ambrose, too, began to grow sentimental as the time
approached ; and as soon as he discovered it, encouraged
the growing sentiment in his own mind with
fostering care. Florence's quieter and gentler mood
struck him as extremely touching. A pang of regret
shot through his heart, not an agonising pang, — perhaps
even it was slightly pleasurable, but still craving expression.
What is one to say to a charming woman
whom one is about to leave, and who holds out little
distress signals of regret at one's departure ? Philip
solved the difficulty by becoming extremely tender ;
and tenderness was so natural a mood to him that he
never felt more at ease than when he was indulging it.
So, somewhat unawares, they had lapsed into a far
more serious and affectionate mood than they had ever
hitherto contemplated as possible.

One morning — it was amongst the last two or three
which remained before his departure — Philip had joined
Florence and her father in their ride, and the General
being deep in business talk with one of his officers, the
two had ridden some way homewards tite-a-Ute.

Last things, last rides with charming women among

the rest, have always a touch of melancholy. Philip
felt this with great acuteness as he watched his beautiful
companion and saw that she, too, was feeling it. Her
accustomed joyousness was pervaded with the subtle
aroma of a pensive mood. The truth was that Florence
was rather sad. She had enjoyed many pleasant things
in Ambrose's company, and his companionship, she now
realised, had formed a large part of their pleasantness.
For weeks past he had been exactly in the mood in
which she liked him best, — a bright, gentle naturalness,
which half-amused, half-touched her by its confidential
naivete. She had sometimes pictured him to herself asa
Faun, a charming creature, with natural grace and
brightness provided, possibly, with perhaps a slightly inadequate
supply of soul. Now the Faun was going back
to his native woods, and it was natural that he should be
pleased to go ; but he was leaving his forest companions,
the familiar faces of to-day and yesterday, and breaking
off the pleasant routine of existence. So the Faun was
sad, and made no secret of his sadness. Florence would
have scarcely been surprised if he had sat down under
one of the huge spreading trees under which they were
riding, taken out his pan-pipes, and breathed to the
forest deities a strain of half-animal distress. But

Philip was not Faun enough for that. His emotions
were never inarticulate.

Do you know,' he now said, ' the nearer I get to
this journey to England the less I seem to like it. I
have more than half a mind to give it up. Yet I want
to see my father badly. I have been five years away,
and he is lonely without me. He Eves all alone, you
know.'

'No wonder you are in a hurry to get to him,' Florence
said ; ' India is a cruel country to fathers like yours, is
it not ?'

It is a cruel country to us all,' said Philip, bitterly ;
it is the land of regrets — the desolate kingdom of separations
— we live in a scramble : one is always being
torn from the people one likes the best. It is scarcely
worth making friends, is it, only to leave them ?'

'Don't say that,' said his companion; 'we are all
sorry to lose you now, and we shall welcome you back.
What is to become of my father's whist, meanwhile,
it is dreadful to think. We shall have to ask Mr.
]easterly, who is always revoking.'

But will you miss me,' asked Philip, turning round
in his saddle, and looking straight at his companion
with sudden earnestness.

Excessively said Florence ; ' I never play lawn
tennis so well as when I have you for my partner. By
the way, who will take care of your lawn while you are
away ? Shall I watch over it V

You don't understand me in the least,' said Ambrose ;
cannot you see that I am really very unhappy ; I
thought that women saw everything

I should not have thought that you were so very
unhappy,' said his companion ; ' you ought not to be :
you will have the great joy of seeing your father again.
You will have a charming time in England and enjoy
everything immensely. All the same, as I said, we
shall be missing you dreadfully here, and it will be
only fair if, among all your pleasures, you regret your
Indian friends a little.'

I shall regret leaving you, but not a little,' answered
Ambrose ; ' go where I will, I shall never find a more
delightful friend. I shall be for ever wishing myself
back in Cerulean again with you. To be with you, to
see you, to hear your voice, is all I want — all that I
care for in the world. No other pleasure is like it,
or could be. I have found it out to my cost, now
that I am about to lose it — to lose you. That is
why I hate this horrid journey to England. Tell me

to give it up, and make me the happiest fellow in
the world.'

Philip thought that Miss Eashleigh had never looked
more absolutely enchanting than when, on coming to
the close of this avowal, he looked up and met her fine,
tender, courageous glance, startled as she was by a
sudden shock and confronted by an immediate embarrassment.
Her face had in it a great deal of latent
nobility, which only needed occasion to rush to light.

She was now, he could see, nerving herself to master
a surprise and to face with composure a trying ordeal.
His outburst had been almost as great a surprise to
himself as it was to her. He had frequently, of late,
felt prompted to say something extremely affectionate
to Miss Eashleigh, but prudence had immediately insisted
that this something should be as vague as was
compatible with the necessary degree of strength. His
money troubles, which were a mere inconvenience to a
bachelor, would look very different and very much more
serious when confronted with the additional embarrassment
of a wife. IN'or was it probable that they could
ever be settled except with the assistance of a wife who
should be, not only charming, but opulent. In the
abstract Philip was determined not to marry for several

years to come, and then to marry money ; in the concrete
he adored Miss Eashleigh. The conflicting impulses had
whirled him, a helpless victim, to an unintended result.

And now the die was cast. Ambrose's fate, so far as
it depended on himself, was sealed. The strong current
had caught him : resistance was impossible, nor did he
wish to resist. Why resist ? Why not rather revel
in it to the full, and taste the full ecstasy of the one
supreme moment of existence, let the rest be what it
might ? ' At a touch I yield : let the great river bear
me to the deep.' Philip's feelings, by this time, were
quite beyond the control of sober discretion, and were
carrying him rapidly on to the wild tempestuous sea.
What his fate would be there he was in no mood for
considering.

Florence, he could see, was moved. Her gay preparedness
of speech was gone. Her courage was shaken,
her bright composure had given way to a nervous embarrassment.
On such fragile materials love builds its
silly hopes.

Tell me to give it up,' he said ; ' but I have no need
to be told. I am determined not to go. Yours or not
yours, happy or wretched, I cannot bear to leave you.
Whatever your decision, I shall stay.'

Florence had now had time to collect her scattered
senses and decide on the reply which it behoved her to
make.

You must not do that, Mr. Ambrose she said, ' or
you will forfeit my friendship for ever ; and, please
now, to say no more on the subject. You are speaking
strongly, wildly, on the spur of the moment, I am convinced,
not of settled design. For my part, I must tell
you frankly that your words have been an unwelcome
surprise, and that I cannot imagine myself ever feeling
for you as you have spoken to me. Till to-day I have
never thought of you but as a pleasant friend ; nor, I
believe, can you have thought otherwise of me. We
will remain as friends, if you please. I like you,
as you know. If our friendship is to last, you must
promise me never again to talk to me like this.'

Never 1 ' cried Philip, ' that's a long word. How
can you tell what you may feel hereafter?'

Well !' said Florence, catching at the first chance to
bring matters to a close ; ' never, at any rate, till you
return from England. You are going home. Go, free
as air. When you come back, we can see how matters
stand between us.'

But I am going for six months,' cried Ambrose.

*I know said Florence; 'for six months, then, silence!
and remember you are free. We are both free.'

Six months or six hundred,' cried Ambrose ; ' I shall
never think of you but as the perfection of womankind.
Only give me leave to stay.'

No,' said Florence, by this time again quite mistress
of herself and of the situation, ' I tell you to go — and,
remember, you are free, and I am free.'

A WOUNDED HEART

Methinks I feel this youth's perfections
With an invisible and subtle strength,
To creep in at my eyes.'

Florence's answer to her lover had been, like herself,
honest and courageous. She had told Ambrose the
exact truth as to her feelings about him ; she had not
concealed her liking for him or underrated it ; she had
warned him that her liking was not love nor likely to
become so. On the other hand, she had not bidden
him to despair, or forbidden him to renew his request
if, after six months in England, he was still of the
same mind. In this Miss Eashleigh had shown her
courage — a courage, however, that was full of danger to
herself, and of hope for any man who really loved her.
Such a concession, construed by the insight of true devotion,
would mean that the battle was more than half-won,

and victory already assured. Her rejection of him
had lacked the decisiveness of indifference or dislike,
still, when Florence came to think over the interview
with her lover in cold blood, she was less and less favourably
impressed with his behaviour. It had been too
spasmodic, too abruptly intense, too wanting in self-restraint,
too suggestive of a suddenly-kindled and
fugitive passion. It had wanted the true ring of real
earnest devotion. She told her mother of it with a
lio-ht heart, and treated it with an indifference that
satisfied Mrs. Eashleigh that no harm had been done,
and that no danger was to be feared. She contented
herself with saying that Philip had behaved very
foolishly, and hinting that his dismissal might well
have been more absolute.

I would have sent him about his business for good
and all, dear, and taken good care that nothing of the
kind should occur again. That sort of love-making is
one form of impertinence.'

'Poor fellow!' Florence said, 'that would have been
needlessly cruel. He is so impulsive, you know, mother,
and I should have been sorry to hurt him. After all,
I rather like him, you know.'

It would have done him no harm,' her mother

said, decisively ; ' he had no business to speak as he
did.'

Florence knew that this was so. She knew that she
had been right to keep herself free ; yet freedom is not
always happiness, and Florence was far from happy.
Philip's kindly, unconscious mirthfulness, his irrepressible
good humour, his unstudied, gentle manner had
made a deeper impression than she had at first suspected
; and the impression grew deeper and deeper
every day. In some moods she wondered how she
had ever had the heart, the nerve, to let him go, and
thought to herself that if he had come within her
reach again, she must have kept him at whatever risk
of future misfortune. Then common sense would
assert its reign, and Florence scorned herself for a
foolish fancy, and resolved to be as heart-whole as
ever.

Philip by this time was halfway across the Indian
Ocean on his homeward journey, and was spending long
dreamy afternoons in siesta in which Florence's image
figured only as one of a host of pleasant recollections of
a world which was every day fading faster from his
thoughts. Europe, England, home, with all their thousand
interests and delights, were already in full and

VOL. I. I

exclusive possession of his mind. He was free, and
freedom seemed fraught with a host of delightful possibilities.
India and Indian things, even Indian people,
seemed merging into the indistinctness which is the
prelude of oblivion.

His relations towards Miss Eashleigh were conveniently
vague, and his feelings, if still those of affectionate
remembrance, were obscured by an overgrowth
of young and radiant hopes and more immediate claims
on his attention. No sort of tie, so a well-disciplined
and courteous conscience assured him, bound him to
the young lady, who had declined his proffered devotion,
and disbelieved his protestations of eternal fidelity. If
he was free, whose fault was that? Florence, it was
certain, was less tender-hearted than himself; and it
might even be a form of judicious self-protection against
the melancholy of disappointment if her rejected lover
took full advantage of any compensatory alleviation that
kind, tender eyes and sympathetic hearts in England
might be ready to afford. In plain words, Philip had,
before he reached the Mediterranean, determined with
himself that, if kind Fortune brought a flirtation in his
way he would make the most of her kindness. Now
Fortune, though proverbially fickle, is almost invariably

kind to good-looking Youth when thus prepared to welcome
her largess.

Meanwhile, the seed so carefully sown was growing
apace in the fine soil of Florence's heart. It grew and
grew until she acknowledged to herself, with a sort
of remorseful indignation at her own weakness, that it
had become the master-thought, and threw all other
influences into the background.

Vultus alit venus et ceeco carpitur ignis.'

Life somehow had grown darker — pleasure had lost
its zest. Everything seemed worse, commoner, less interesting.
Now that Pliilip was no longer present to
remind her of his slightness, it was so easy to forget it,
and to remember only that he was mirthful, charming,
and devoted. In a man's absence, imagination so soon
begins to idealise him, to throw his shortcomings into
the shade, to set his attractions in a striking light —
to make him what friendship would wish him to be.
Les absents ont toujours tort, the proverb says : but the
pleasant companion who has left us is the victim of no
such injustice. Eather he benefits by an indulgent
obliviousness of all about him, for which oblivion is
desirable. It is not with material beauties alone that

distance lends enchantment to the view. And indeed,
without being in love with young Ambrose, one may-admit
that Cerulean society, and especially that fraction
of it which formed the atmosphere of Florence's daily
life, was the duller for the want of his presence. Miss
Eashleigh, at any rate, found it very dull indeed, and
cheered herself with hazy visions in the mind's far
horizon — a rosy dawn, lovely as Aurora's self, when
Apollo would rise again from the orient wave and come
to glorify her world again. Alas, when Apollo reappeared
so the cruel fates had willed — it was under circumstances
not calculated to give her the least satisfaction !
Florence's predicament could not for long pass unobserved.
The kindly General found the companion
of his rides changed ; he could not tell how, but
decidedly changed. She was as devoted, as anxious
to please him, as prompt to read his wishes and wants,
as ready in her sweet, filial solicitude as ever. But
her mirthfulness had fled ; the bright, unconscious joy
of life was no longer there. Her face, as she rode
beside him, wore some other look than that which of
yore spoke of high animal spirits and keen natural
enjoyment in her gallop. She looked grave ; she looked
even sad. The General, in great perturbation, confided

his observations to Mrs. Easlileigh, and his alarm
increased when Mrs. Eashleigh admitted that she, too,
was aware that something was the matter. These two
tender hearts, linked in a common love, shrank and
shuddered, sensitive to the approach of evil, at the bare
thought of sorrow coming near the child they both
adored. The situation became critical. All the more
affectionate than ever ; no one spoke of it, but each of
the three secretly felt, by a subtle instinct, that a secret
sorrow had overclouded that bright and happy home.

How happy that home had been. The General and
his wife belonged to that favoured class of married
people who continue lovers to the end. His old age
was as chivalrous, as ardent, as devoted as his youth
had been, to the dear companion, who had followed
his fortunes through good times and bad. They had
travelled together for many a year in rough places and
smooth ; together they had borne the blows of fate ;
they had enjoyed the bright and the dark hours of life
in company till the one could scarcely think of pleasure
or pain, except as shared by the other. There had been
some dark days of disappointment, suspense, and deadly
anxiety — what soldier's wife escapes them ? Now the
good times had come, and, best of all, the good things —

the daughter who, two years before, had arrived from
England — with a long-cherished store of affection, to
be the crowning joy, the charm and ornament of the
closing scene of their Indian career. And the charm
had been as sweet in realisation as in Hope's fondest
day-dream. Neither of them had known how delightful
it would be. Again and again their good fortune would
take them by surprise. The General's manly heart
would throb, now and again, with a sudden rush of
pleasure, as Florence — fresh, joyous, beautiful — went
sailing along on her Arab by his side, witching the
world with noble horsemanship and charming every
eye with the radiance of exulting youth. Mrs. Eash-
leigh's eyes would sometimes fill with unbidden tears
of love and gratitude as she watched the sweet child
of their youth, whom it had sometimes seemed to break
her heart to part with, restored to her at last, the
crowning blessing of a blest existence. Their common
joy had bound these true and faithful hearts closer than
ever; and now they were confronted by a common
trouble. That Florence was not as happy as she had
been — as she ought to be — was an idea which, the
General found, put all his stoicism to the rout at
once ; and, as he buckled and strapped on his uniform

for the morning's parade, lie inwardly admitted
that, put what courageous face upon it he would, a
reverse in this direction would mean not only defeat
but disaster. Like a good soldier as he was, he determined
to do his best to obviate defeat.

Florence's outspokenness on the subject to her
mother had been unembarrassed, and her assurance that
her heart was disengaged so obviously sincere, that the
conjecture that she might possibly be mistaken had not
suggested itself to Mrs. Eashleigh as a possible explanation
of her new-found melancholy. The two were on
far too good terms for reticence on either side. Florence
was anxious to disburse herself of her trouble, and,
one day, her mother with gentle compulsion forced the
secret from her.

'Florence, dear,' she said, laying her hand kindly
on hers and looking straight at her, ' you have something
on your mind.'

'Yes,' Florence answered, 'and something I am
heartily ashamed of. I have been weak, mother. I
am weak and I am behaving: like a fool. I cannot
get that foolish Philip Ambrose out of my thoughts.
I don't love him. I don't respect him. I don't wish
to marry him ; all the same it hurts me to have lost

liiiii ; sometimes I let myself think I really do love
him. That is what has been making me miserable.
Do you despise me very much ? What will my father
think ? I know that I despise myself.'

There is no need to do that, dear,' said her mother,
only I beg and pray you, dear Florence, not to play
with day-dreams. Your decision was assuredly right.
We all feel alike about Philip Ambrose. You yourself
think him weak and unstable ; he would never make
you happy ; you will not go on thinking about him —
will you ? Promise.'

I tell you what, mother,' Florence replied, evading
a pledge which she may have doubted her ability to
keep, ' I think men are very horrid, and I don't feel at
all inclined to have anything to do with any of them.
Why can they not let one alone ? How happy we
three are together ! As for my foolish fancy I mean to
laugh it away and be ten times gayer than ever.'

And gayer than ever in society Florence forthwith became.
The old colonels found her even more affable and
more amusing than they had believed. Mr. Chichele
made no secret of his admiration, pronounced her
the best company in Cerulean, and threw over his
friend Mrs. Paragon without the least compunction

whenever he got the chance of a chat with Miss
Eashleigh. The subalterns, to a boy, burnt incense
at a respectful distance; no one who was not in the
secret had a suspicion but that Florence was still the
gayest, brightest, most whole-hearted of her sex. Meanwhile
the secret trouble grew none the less troublesome
for being recognised by those who had to bear it. The
General growled out a hearty execration under his
grisly moustache, when j\Irs. Eashleigh explained the
nature of their daughter's trouble. ' I always told you,'
he said, ' that that fellow was no good ; he has no
backbone — he has no principle — he has no strength.
It was dishonourable to speak to Florence as he did. I
wish to goodness I. had never played whist with him.
He is confoundedly pleasant and all that sort of thing,
but you will see, Maria, he'll come to awful grief some
day and break the heart of the woman who is unlucky
enough to marry him.' With this grim vaticination the
General was constrained, faute de mieiox, to console
himself in a crisis which, he began to fear, did not admit
of any consolation.

MR. Monte LOSES HIS TEMPER

Lucas — ' His enemies confess

The virtues of humanity are Caesar's,'

Cato — ' Curse on his virtues ! They've undone his country ;
Such popular humanity is treason. '

Miss Eashleigh was not the only person to whom
Philip's departure implied a serious diminution of
enjoyment — Mr. Montemm was another sufferer. That
gentleman's exterior, as exhibited to mankind at large,
was of an irritable, conciliatory, and aggressive order,
not unfitly symbolised by the quills upon the fretful
porcupine. Deep hidden, however, below — deep as the
recesses of the terrestrial globe, at which fortunate
explorers ' strike ' gold or petroleum — were smouldering
fires of wit, and a copious supply of that agreeable
ingredient known to moralists as the milk of human
kindness. Both qualities needed only a congenial touch

to spring to the surface, and Ambrose, with his usual
good luck, appealed effectually to each. ]\Iontem had
grown really fond of him; and, whenever he got the
chance, would carry him off from the whist-table to a
Ute-a-Utc dinner — not, it must be confessed, of the most
rechcrcM order, — where, under the mellowing influences
of whisky and soda-water, the old Scotchman would
blossom into a genial mood, and produce all his treasures
of wide reading, subtle thought and humorous
analysis of character, for the edification of his guest ; and
then the two would have a fine time of it. Philip found
j\Iontem's racy talk an agreeable change from the frivolous
chatter of ball-rooms and band-stands, or the dreary round
of military gossip. One may have enough even of pretty
young ladies : and, as for the army, Philip used to say,
it is as great a puzzle as the Athanasian creed : the only
thing that is certain about it is that every man has a
grievance which he wants to tell you. Montemm's grievances
were of a less personal and more interesting order ;
and they were enforced with a picturesque extravagance
now fun, now pathos, now prejudice, now serious
conviction, — but in every case alike, full of character.
Philip made an excellent listener, and differed just often
enough to stir the acids and alkalis of his instructor's

talk into continual effervescence. Much good advice
had Montemm given him on his approaching visit to
England.

Young man he said, ' let me give you a hint.
When you get home, — as you value peace and quiet and
a kindly welcome by your friends, — let nothing tempt you
to say a word about India — not one word. Polite people
will ask you about it, but that is only to please you. Do
not answer them. They cannot bear it. Take my word.
You are a revenant, you know; and well-bred and judicious
revenants say as little as possible about the place
they have come from.'

Especially,' said Philip, ' when it happens to bea
hot one; but I thought that India was rather the
fashion.'

The India of sentiment and nonsense,' said Montemm,
'is, and always will be the fashion — the India that
Burke flooded with bombast, and Macaulay with antithesis
— the India that Stain writes pamphlets about,
and Frontinbras sonnets — the India that never was, and
never will be, except in foolish heads. The English
are a curious race. They hate intellectual exertion, and
they like to have their passions roused. Consequently
they hate alike the effort which serious thought costs,

and the many-sided, hesitating results to which it leads.
Hence comes the sensational method, with vivid outline
and strongly-marked effects, which involve no thought,
and generate plenty of passion. You remember Thucydides's
dictum about the little trouble that the Athenian
oi iroWoL took to find the truth. The English ot ttoWoc
like exertion just as little. They ivill not take the
trouble to learn, and, in consequence, they are always
making colossal blunders ; and the blunders are growing
more and more colossal every year. Sometimes, as I sit
in my office and watch the wear and tear of things in
general, I feel a horrid conviction that the English
national character has suffered with the rest, and begins
to show signs of dilapidation.'

Of course,' said Caro, who came in at this moment,
and at once took up his accustomed role of capping
Montemm's cynicism. ' It ought to be allowed for in
the national accounts, if they were properly kept —
depreciation of moral rolHng stock," at so much percent.
Only, what Chancellor of Exchequer would
venture to gauge it ? '

Look at the nation's behaviour about Egypt,'
continued Montemm ; ' was it not suggestive of decrepitude?
a want of fixed purpose — an incapacity for

sustained effort — a degrading mixture of levity, violence
and irresolution ? '

That was the fault of their rulers,' said Caro ; * each
one trying to catch the nation's whim and set his sails
by it. No nation could undergo such a process of
petting and escape the natural infirmities of a spoilt
child.'

'Please listen to this,' said Montemm, taking up a
Review from the table. 'Hear the great apostle of
Radicalism on its agreeable consequences. "Does the
excitement of democracy," he asks, "weaken the stability
of national character ? By setting up a highly increased
molecular activity does it disturb, not merely conservative
respect for institutions, but for coherence and
continuity of opinion and sentiment in the character of
the individual himself ? Is there a fluidity of character
in modern democratic societies which contrasts not
altogether favourably with the strong solid types of
old ?" Are Englishmen becoming less like Romans and
more like chattering Greeks ? '

Yes,' said his companion ; ' and the worst Greeks
are those who will chatter about India. But talking of
fluid characters and chattering Greeks, Frontinbras is
coming presently to call on you, with an introduction

from Mr. Chichele ; I shall escape while I can, and
leave you to convert him if you can.'

Convert him !' cried Montemm, making a wry face at
the impending infliction, ' " Though thou shalt bray a
fool in a mortar, yet shall he not depart from his folly." '

Excellent text,' said Caro. ' That, I suppose, is
why I never see Frontinbras without thinking of braying.
Farewell, Philosopher, till whist-time this afternoon.
I must be off.'

And I will come with you,' said Ambrose ; ' I have
a particular engagement.'

You have a particular aversion for garrulous blockheads,'
said Montemm, ' and so have I. If Chichele keeps
sending his revolutionary visitors on to me, I intend to
resign my appointment, and leave Cerulean wear and
tear to go to the devil as they please.'

Presently Frontinbras arrived, keen on interviewing
a Cerulean character, and determined — thanks to Chi-chyle's
admonitions — to be as little offensive as he could.
Montemm, on his part, bent himself, in the true spirit of
Christian resignation, to receive the Governor's guest
with all due politeness. For a while all went on
smoothly, till the smoothness of the interview imperceptibly
threw both parties off their guard. Frontinbras

began to air some of the foolish things which he had
heard at Sir Theophilus's Court ; and, unluckily, quoted
one of Montemm's pet aversions in support of them.

He is a man, you will admit, of great experience,' he
said, throwing a tone of assurance into the speech,
which ruffled the unnatural calm of Montemm's equanimity
with a sudden gust of displeasure, — ' a man of
great and varied experience.'

He is,' said Montemm ; * but then ill-judging experience
is the very deuce. The experience of stupid or
careless people is merely an intense form of misunderstanding.
It means that they have collected a number
of unperceived facts in support of a blundering conclusion.
As George Eliot says somewhere, " Experience
cackles far oftener than she lays a live egg." Of the two
I prefer ignorance as absolute as your own.'

Do you ? ' said Frontinbras, who by this time was
beginning to feel decidedly less amiable than when the
interview began ; ' and I suppose you think just as little
of Sir Theophilus, to whom I was indebted for the introduction.
Tell me frankly.'

I will said Montemm, ' with pleasure. Prance is the
worst of the lot. There is no man in India, as I judge,
whose vanity, shallowness, and want of political foresight

has done more to impede useful work for the
present or laid up greater difficulties for the future.'

I have heard that sort of thing before said Frontinbras
; ' I should be glad to learn what it seriously
means.'

I will tell you said Montemm. ' He could not
set the Thames on fire at home, so he is trying his
hand on the Ganges, Burampootra, and the rest of
them

'Drop metaphor!' cried Frontinbras, by this time
well on towards being in a passion. ' What is it that
makes all you Indian conservatives so bitter against
him ?'

Because said Montemm, who had now forgotten
politeness in the necessity of being forcible, — ' because
he has seized the most dangerous points in a dangerous
position, and used them for self-glorification. India just
nowisfull of explosive materials — restlessness, envy, race-jealousy,
class-animosity — a vast, half educated class,
with just little knowledge enough to be a dangerous
thing and to feel at a loss what to do with its newly-found
powers. Prance has appealed to all in behalf of himself
and his party ; and, what is worst of all, appealed in a
way that has put all his countrymen against him. He
VOL. I. K

postures as the friend of freedom. He is really the apostle
of disorder. He has convinced himself, in truth's despite,
that white is black and black is white, and he appeals
to young India to prove it. The solemn truth remains
that they are remarkably unlike, but Sir Theophilus
cannot or will not see it. He found the task of
quiet, rational government in India difficult. He
and his admirers are doing their best to make it impossible.'


You seem to think us all very dangerous characters,'
said Frontinbras.

Not dangerous,' answered Montemm, with amusement
twinkling in his eye, for he knew that it was Frontinbras's
foible to be considered dangerous, and was resolved
not to indulge it. ' If you were dangerous, the
Governor would have to deport you, and, if you objected
to deportation, to imprison you.'

Imprison me ! ' cried Frontinbras, by this time in a
white heat of indignation, ' and without a trial ? '

Without a trial said Montemm, with an exasperating
composure, ' by a lettre de cachet. We have them here,
you know. It is one of the many advantages of a
military despotism.'

It is one of the infamies that we are determined to

efface,' cried the other ; ' Englishmen have no business
with military despotisms.'

Except that they happen to own the largest in the
world said his companion.

But you do not want it to last for ever, I suppose,'
cried Frontinbras.

It will last none too long,' said the other, with an
earnest tone that struck even Frontinbras as impressive;
'and, meanwhile, it has converted the biggest bear-garden
the world has ever seen into an orderly and,
as things go, fairly prosperous community. Remove it,
and you will have the bear-garden back in a twelvemonth,
and an invader, pouring once again through the
Afghan passes, within a decade.'

Frontinbras shook his wild locks, and was trembling
with excitement. Had he not that very morning been
constructing a forcible stanza comparing India to a
crucified slave, with brutal soldiery around, and ribald
persecutors gibing at his pangs ? 'Our whole views are
antipathetic,' he said. ' Have you no hopes for India,
for mankind ?'

'I have,' said the other, * perhaps as high ones as
your own, — so high that I think their accomplishment
is well worth the toil and patience which several

generations of conspicuous Englishmen have loyally
contributed towards their accomplishment, — so high
that I resent the levity, the hardihood, the sensationalism
that risks all for its gratification. You hasty
gentlemen have not leisure to understand the complications
of the case. You prescribe before you have
diagnosed : you must have sensationalism, and India is
full of sensational effects. But you indulge yourselves
at a heavy cost. You give form and substance to
floating folly ; you instil baseless discontents and vain
hopes; you rally the scattered germs of disaffection,
and try to bring them to a head ; you would ruin the
Government if you could. It is a proof of its strength
and of its reliance on the good sense of the community
against the feelings to which you appeal that the Government
can afford to let you and your fellow-fanatics go
where you will and say what you please.'

Still,' said Frontinbras, who was well accustomed to
having strong things said to him, and rather liked it,
if you had your way, you would deport me ? '
'No' said Montemm ; ' I would imprison you.'
Then I had better be going while I can,' replied his
companion ; ' you may have a lettre de cachet about you ;
who knows ? '

No such luck said Montemm, good-naturedly ; ' but
have a cigar before you go ; you will find this a good
one.'

That evening a well-assorted circle at Chichele's
table listened with sympathising amusement to the
narrative of all that poor Montemm had been through, in
the cause of hospitality on the one hand and truth on
the other.

There is one plain, prosaic question,' Chichele observed,
* to which no apostle of India's regeneration has
ever yet given a satisfactory answer. If India, in order
to be regenerated, is to dispense with British rule, who
is to guarantee the repayment of the two hundred
millions sterling which Englishmen have lent India
to make railways and canals with ? It is vulgar perhaps
to ask it, but, from a business point of view, it is
important.'

And who, if it comes to that,' said Montemm, ' will
give back to the English all they have sacrificed for
the country — our wasted lives V

'And,' added Caro, emphatically, 'our enfeebled
livers :' and as he had just been restricted by a stern
committee of doctors to a penitential diet of toast and
gruel, and was unable, in consequence, on the present

occasion, to enfeeble this own any further by rash experiments
on Chichele's excellent cuisine, lie was, no
doubt, in a position to speak feelingly as to this particular
form of contribution to the welfare of his Aryan
first cousins.

GATHER YOUR ROSES WHILE YE MAY

"We figure to ourselves
The thing we like, and then we build it up,
As chance will have it, on the rock or sand ;
For Thought is tired of wandering o'er the world,
And home-bound Fancy runs her bark ashore.'

Five years had passed away since Philip left his
home, and, except on rare occasions on which Mr.
Ambrose paid a visit at her uncle's, Camilla had heard
nothing of the man who had so deeply impressed her.
Even when he came, Mr. Ambrose was not particularly
communicative as to his son's fortunes. Philip, he said,
was a shockingly bad correspondent ; and life in India,
it might be supposed, did not supply material for many
amusing letters. 'Anyhow, I cannot say that Philip's
letters are either numerous or amusing. However, he is
all right, and keeping well, which is the great thing; and
he is getting on, I suppose, for he has been moved from

Moldipettiah to MustipoUium, a much grander station;
and he is now, he tells me, what they call a "Joint"'

This sort of information was, naturally, not at all
such as that for which Camilla's ardent imagination
craved. A romantic young woman cannot satisfy her
flights of fancy by dreaming of her lover as translated
from one unknown, unpronounceable place to another,
and being described as if he was so much meat. The
expression meant, she supposed, that, in some mysterious
way or other, Philip formed a humble member of the
body corporate of Indian officials. But what an arid
fact ! What honey is to be sucked by the liveliest fancy
from such a flower as that ? Meanwhile Camilla was
rapidly growing out of a picturesque girl into a woman
of beauty, strength, and character. Her mind was
forming ; she had learnt to formulate her girlish instincts
with distinct convictions and views. The narrowness
of her uncle's world had become an accepted fact, and
she bore it more quietly because she understood it
better. She recognised it as essentially intolerable,
despicable, and to be escaped from at the first opportunity.
She knew now, by actual experience, a little of
the vast world without, — the great river of human life
rushing along; of the realms of science, art, thought.

and feeling; the wild dreams — the grand discoveries;
the grave doubts that swayed mankind ; the theories
with which men's minds were busy, the hopes and
fears which stirred them, — for all which topics those
around her cared as much as for the social economy of
Timbuctoo. In this discouraging and uncongenial
surrounding Camilla lived alone. She had always
cherished a grand ideal : she took life seriously; regarded
it with deep interest, as of a sort of awful significance
to every one ; she felt its issues to be supremely important,
the difference between its various possibilities
so tremendous : on the one hand, such lofty, beautiful
eminences, serene and pure, and bathed in heaven's
own light ; on the other such abyssmal depths of dulness
and turpitude : on the one hand such wild, free
flights amid celestial pleasures; on the other, such
enslavement amid narrow, soul-destroying, enervating
vacuity. Between these alternatives she had made her
choice with a passionate, eager decisiveness ; she vowed
to herself that her life should be something worth
living — something pure, good, elevated and refined.
These were her vehement cravings as soon as she began
to think at all ; and she had never wavered in their
pursuit. This sort of self culture had given her a

certain exquisiteness of mind, which bespoke itself in
her appearance and manner. It gave her on the one
hand, an uncompromising dislike of all that militated
against, or even fell short of her standard — a sort of
moral daintiness : on the other hand, it invested her
with all the strength which comes from a fixed purpose
and a will ever bent towards one set of noble objects.
Camilla was never distracted, never dissipated, never
without an object. She moved onwards towards her
end, sometimes, no doubt, with stumbling feet, sometimes
with halting and uncertain steps — but with her
gaze on the goal she had imagined for herself. The
Beautiful Mountains were for ever in her horizon, fair
with celestial beauty, the object of her pilgrimage.
This settled purpose gave her a fine disdain, perhaps
too little concealed, for all things petty, mean, unreal,
or unrefined ; she cherished a vehement repugnance to
every sort of sham. The lightnings of sarcasm played
about her finely chiselled lips, and she, not unfrequently,
produced the impression of unintentionally withering
the object of her disapproval with polished bolts of
scornful wit. Her uncle had on various occasions had
reason to remark that Camilla's tongue was a great
deal too sharp, and that sarcasm was one of the last

qualities for which a well-educated young lady ought
to desire to be remarkable.

'Now Camilla Sir Marmaduke confided to his sister,
in his sham oracular fashion, *is distinctly sarcastic'
Camilla had some excuse for being occasionally sarcastic.
Her uncle's conversation produced on her
nerves the effect which the Autocrat of the Breakfast
Tale describes so feelingly as wrought upon himself by
a dull discourse ; it stirred a hundred mental currents
into inconvenient activity. * If,' says that ingenious
writer, ' you ever saw a crow with a king-bird after him,
you will get an image of a dull speaker and lively
listener. The bird in sable plumage flaps heavily along
his straightforward course, while the other sails around
him, over him, under him, leaves him, comes back
again, tweaks out a black feather, shoots away once
more, never losing sight of him, and finally reaches the
crow's perch at the same time the crow does ; having
cut a perfect labyrinth of loops and knots and spirals,
while the slow fowl was painfully working from one
end of his straight line to another.'

This simile describes exactly the action of Sir Armature's
conversation on Camilla's nervous system, and the
sort of road by which their minds travelled. Sir Armature's

journeyed slowly, cautiously, complacently, along
a well-beaten road of conventional commonplace ; well
pleased with his sagacity in discovering it, with his progress
upon it, and perfectly assured as to his destination.
It was impossible not to listen to him ; Camilla had often
tried that resource ; it was equally impossible to listen
without an access of nervous fatigue and exhaustion.
While Sir Marmaduke trudged complacently along,
scattering commonplaces as he went, Camilla's eager
thoughts were stimulated into unnatural restlessness;
they touched him every now and then, and rebounded
into the empyrean : they returned from the airy void,
took a look at the honest pedestrian, and were off again,
soaring out of sight. Hodgson, the head keeper, endeavouring
with whip and whistle to inspire sobriety
into a couple of young pointers, wild with escape from
the durance of the kennel, was not less capable of
emulating their movements, or more in the dark as to
their delight, than was this worthy banker as to the aspirations,
interests, and pangs of tedium which stirred
the bosom of his mercurial niece.

She knew his stories, and the exact point at which
the joke — that horrid thrice-told joke — would explode.
She knew his arguments ; she knew his demonstrations.

which he ordered out just as he ordered out his carriage
whenever wanted. Even her Aunt Augusta flinched
sometimes, and gave a little sigh of fatigue as her
brother began. To Camilla it was maddening ; she
would fly away, lock herself up in her bedroom, and
there breathe the awful revelation to the respectable
ancestors, who gazed at her from its walls, that her
uncle was a bore. There are men, it has been well
said, with whom it weakens you more to talk for an
hour than would a day's fasting. Camilla had frequently
to experience this sense of prostration. Her outbursts
were only the fluttering of a spirit in prison, beating
against the bars of a too narrow cage, and expectant of
the hour of deliverance. In the background of her character,
and lighting up her lofty aspirations with a gentle
radiance, was a large store of tender romance. This washer
true self ; it recoiled, like some sensitive plant, from
the rude contact of the outer world. Her uncle's rough,
unsympathising touch inspired her with a real terror —
the terror which gentle creatures feel at strength which
can neither pity nor understand. Thus Camilla frequently
seemed proud when she was really only frightened,
and fastidious merely because she tried the things
and persons about her by a high standard of refinement.

CHAP.

If, as her uncle sometimes reprovingly observed, she
thought nothing good enough for her, it was less from
a too-exacting critical habit than because the ideal,
which she instinctively followed, was something very
good indeed.

Youthful idealism must rest its tired wing on a
concrete ideal, and in Camilla's imagination her sudden
friendship with Philip Ambrose lived as something
exceptionally charming. The sweet memory of those
few happy days in Paris — their mysterious charm —
the deep impression they had made upon her; that
last scene — that farewell kiss — had been stored up
in her thoughts, like some treasure, laid away in a
secret drawer under lock and key, and guarded jealously
from the general gaze, to which one goes, every
now and then, to feast the eye and be assured of its
loveliness. Camilla had often repaired to her secret
drawer, and had found her treasure safe and sound
and delightful as ever. Those days had been different
from all other days, that friend from other friends,
Each scene, each word almost seemed to live — graced,
vivified with some imperishable charm in her recollection.
No colour faded from the picture as years went
on — the weary years of dulness, commonplace, and

hollowness. There lay for her the possibility of bliss ;
there was the man whom she could fancy herself
trusting, loving, idolising. Was it a dream — a half-remembered,
half-imagined phantasm ? or would that
enchanting vision again shape itself into flesh and
blood ? Would Perseus arrive, strike off Andromeda's
chains, and carry her off to liberty and love ? The
courageous credulity of youth breathed a confident
reply. The sombre atmosphere of Camilla's real existence
lit up with a great brightness of hope and joy,
and the gloomy realities around her died away or
glowed into brightness, like some sombre landscape
irradiated with the glow of a summer morning.

So Camilla lived in a phantom-land of her own
creation — a land of noble ideals which she had
fashioned for herself. She had had several lovers;
one, the young rector of the parish, a cadet of a great
county family, whose suit Camilla's aunts — half-terrified
at their own audacity — furtively abetted ; and one, a
neighbouring squire, who used to be constantly riding-over
to see Sir Marmaduke on business, or to walk
with him through the home coverts. They were both,
as the two Miss Crofts confided regretfully to one
another, nice men — gentlemen, good, attractive — in

every way eligible. Alas, alas ! Camilla would elect
neither. The first thought of it, directly it dawned
upon her mind, convinced her of its impossibility.
Her aunts' mild persuasions, her uncle's unconcealed
displeasure — and Sir Marmaduke had no need to
speak in order to make Camilla understand that he was
very much displeased with her indeed — produced no
effect but to convert indifference into aversion. Pastor
Aristseus, as Camilla irreverently described the clergyman,
retired, despairing, to his flock, and consulted the
Miss Crofts no more about his Sunday School and
evening classes — that Sunday School in which, with
artless craft, he had beguiled Camilla into teaching a
little smiling row of rustics, and whither he had watched
her — with what admiring eyes ! — coming in her pony-carriage,
on Sunday afternoons, across the park and
along the sweet-scented country lane, his heart beating
at the thought of a happy moment when he would
meet her at the porch, and see her standing — charming
apparition to clerical vision ! — among her curtseying
and smiling disciples. The youthful squire, too, had
received his dismissal and gone his way, and came no
more to ask Sir Marmaduke's advice about drainage
schemes or kill his pheasants. Both lovers disappeared.

'This is trifling with life,' Camilla's elder aunt
informed her, reproachfully.

'What?' Camilla had cried, with a sudden outspokenness
very unusual to her, ' Trifling with life to
decline to marry a man I don't care twopence about !
Come, Aunt Augusta, do you really mean that '? If
you do, thank you, I care a great deal too much about
my life to trifle with it by doing anything of the sort.'

Aunt Augusta, who was at heart extremely sentimental,
was forced to admit the cogency of the reply,
and to content herself with reminding her niece, with
a sigh, that people, who do not gather their roses while
they may, are in danger of not being able to gather
them at all.

'Yes, but,' said Camilla, with a pretty blush, 'let
me wait till the roses come — the true rose, the rose I
really love ; then. Aunt Augusta, you will see me
gather it fast enough.'

At last it seemed that the real rose was about to

make its appearance. Mr. Ambrose came over one

day to lunch, and told them that he had received a

telegram from Philip, the day before, to say that he had

got six months' holiday, and was already on his road

to England. Camilla's heart went pit-a-pat, and she
VOL. I. L

was conscious of a vehement effort to conceal the
agitation that the announcement had occasioned.

'You remember my boy, Philip, your old friend
Mr. Ambrose said to her, ' and the pleasant time we
had in Paris ? '

'To be sure said Camilla, trying, with but scant
success, to look as if nothing had happened, and with
a crimson cheek signalling her consciousness of failure.
What fun we had ; and how M. Got did make us all
laugh ! '

M. Got, indeed ! As if the most brilliant performance
that ever yet took place at the Comedie Franchise
weighed for a feather in the balance against the painfully
interesting drama which was at that moment
enacting itself in Camilla's tender heart ; and as if the
little hypocrite had not, even then, formed her deep
design, and did not, the moment luncheon was over,
carry off the unsuspecting Mr. Ambrose to look at her
flowers, and from the flowers to walk about with her,
in kindly confabulation, in the pleasant, shady terrace
under the cedars, for a good half hour, during which
Philip's father poured into her sympathetic ear many
tender confidences about the much-beloved son, whom he
was to have with him again so soon, and many pleasant

stories of Philip's childhood and youth, such as a loving
father might be pardoned for treasuring up in his
recollection and imparting to a congenial listener, as
Camilla always proved. These two were always sworn
friends. She behaved to him with a pretty filial respect,
and Mr. Ambrose had, no doubt, often reflected how
great a charm a daughter-in-law, such as Camilla, would
lend to life. He returned now, all the better for his walk.
Camilla, too, came in flushed with hope and joy, such
as her aunts had never before seen in her face, usually
so calm, often so sombre and unimpassioned. The
long, dull, cold winter was over, the golden summer
had come. The rose of Camilla's existence — the incomparable
rose — was at last about to bloom !

THE TRUE ROSE

— Thoughts and dreams and sighs —
Wishes and tears — poor Fancy's followers. '

The next few weeks proved a trying period to Camilla.
She was the prey of a great excitement, which no one
around her shared, whose existence no one suspected,
or could be allowed to suspect — a great hope, a great
fear, — perhaps supreme felicity, possibly a cruel disappointment.
Camilla did not try to conceal from herself
that Philip Ambrose's arrival must mean something of
vital importance to her. She had often thought of it,
in the far distance, as a turning-point in her existence ;
and now the crisis was too near for comfort or tranquillity.
She began to realise of what slender materials
her castle in the air was built. It had been a day-dream
— vague, charming, unsubstantial, fair with whatever
colours imagination chose to paint it. It had now

to be reckoned with, face to face, as a solid fact of actual,
waking life. The proximity was distressing, and, though
Camilla was courageous, alarming. The harsh, hard
light of day was beginning to pour on to the fair
edifice of moonlight romance. It is one thing to play
with an idea in some remote region of might be or might
have been. It is another, and a far less agreeable one,
to confront it in midway, bring it to exact account, and
to be brought to exact account by it. Camilla, the soul
of truthfulness, was obliged to admit to her own conscience
that she had been romancing. But what is the
good of such an admission ? Would it make the impending
event less eventful? Would it assuage her
anxiety ? Would it calm her nerves, which, every day,
stood in more need of composure ? Would it save her
from agitation, unrest, fear ? Camilla began to feel that
the tranquillity of her uncle's house, — the commonplace
routine of life, was not, after all, without its advantages.
It was dull, uninteresting, inspiring ; but it was safe ;
and there are moments when to be safe becomes a transcendent
consideration — when, like Falstaff, one feels
that one would give all fame for a pot of beer and
safety. Camilla had often deplored and despised the
tame home-brew of her circumscribed existence. But

now it seemed a somewhat ambrosial beverage. In
short, she was getting into a regular fright. Then the
news came that Philip had actually arrived, and
was already with his father, only a dozen miles away ;
and Camilla became more frightened than ever.

After a few days father and son came over to the
Vines to call upon Sir Marmaduke and his sisters.
Camilla was speedily relieved of one part of her
anxieties. Her childish impressions had not been
wrong. Philip was as charming as he had seemed to
her at Paris ; he was more charming than ever. His
good looks had improved. The years in India had
turned his boyish pink and white to a manly bronze.
He was stronger and manlier. His active life had given
him, Camilla could see, a certain courageous, outspoken,
off-hand demeanour, which was very much to her taste.
He had an air of success, an air of command, which she
felt to be impressive. Philip, his father said, had been
representing British rule over a tract as big as an English
county. Ruling people for their own good was one of
the employments which Camilla felt to be deserving of
pursuit, really worthy of the dignity of man — one of the
few things in the world which it was really worth while
to do.^ It was the work of high natures and an imperial

race. Camilla invested Philip with this imperial
glamour. Then Philip was not only very imperial in
manner, but he was delightfully kind and courteous.
He behaved to Sir Marmaduke with a gracious deference,
which had no touch of obsequiousness. He was evidently
petting his father to his heart's delight. The two Miss
Crofts felt just the same half - terrified, half pleased
amusement at his proceedings that they had experienced
in Paris, but could not withstand his ingratiating politeness.
His behaviour to Camilla made her conscious at
once of the admiration she inspired. She knew instinctively
that to him she was beautiful, transcendent,
adorable. He had remembered her all these years and
amid all those far-off, mysterious scenes — her, the little
girl whom he had half played with, half petted for a
few days at Paris. He had cherished the recollection
of those happy days as she had cherished it. She
had never forgotten him ; she had never wavered
in her feeling about that recollection. Philip too,
she felt, had never wavered ; presently he began to talk
about their meeting in Paris, and his recollection was
as fresh and vivid as Camilla's own. He had remembered
his friends, too, in a substantial way, for he had
presents for every one — a handsome cane for Sir Mar-chap.



mature cut from MuddipoUium forests, with an iron
ferule from the MuddipoUium iron-works, and a top of
gold that once lead lain buried in MuddipoUium quartz.

Iron and gold !' cried Sir Marmaduke, greatly flattered
by this act of attention.

Yes, sir,' said Philip, cheerfully, ' it is the land of
Ophir, you know ; we have gold and iron and virgin
forests, and water power enough for the mills of twenty
Manchester. All it wants is development, and that's
what we are doing for it — we're developing it.'

Ah,' said Sir Marmaduke, airing his new possession
with great satisfaction, 'development — that's a good
business, Philip, and just what a young fellow, like you,
should be about.' Camilla, for once, fully concurred with
her uncle. And then there were two soft, white shawls
for the Miss Crofts, into which the gentle ladies
nestled peacefully at once, and declared that they had
never known perfect comfort till then. There was, too,
a pretty necklace of rough turquoises, strung on a
barbaric string, for Camilla, — beautiful, rugged, and
full of local colour of its far-off home. Philip gave
it to her with such kindly, respectful, affectionate
courtesy, that the act and the gift became inscribed
in her thoughts with the sacredness of chivalrous

romance. She carried it off presently to her room, and
wept over it some happy tears of pleasurable sentiment,
and appeared, wearing it, that evening, — so bright and
blushing and radiant, — that the Miss Crofts exchanged
furtive glances, and began to guess the cause of
Camilla's sudden excitement. The roses, indeed, were
blooming thick about her. The fated hour had struck,
the long-enchanted sleep of dulness closed, the deliverer
was at hand who should bid her awake to
liberty and joy and life.

Fortune smiled upon her, for nothing would satisfy
Sir Marmaduke but that Philip should pay them a
visit at the Vines, and have some partridge shooting.
Philip was delighted to come, and enjoyed his holiday
with an intensity of pleasure for which five years'
exile in Indian jungles is, no doubt, one of the best
of all possible prescriptions. It was exquisite September
weather, and everything at the Vines seemed
to Philip delightfully redolent of the well-ordered peace
and plenty of an English harvest time. Sir Marmaduke
listened with amused satisfaction to his bursts of unaffected
delight at all the accustomed sights and sounds
of an English autumn. The truth is that, when you
have been about the world and seen how ninetv-nine-

hundredths of mankind are housed, an old English
country-house, with its trim gardens and lawns, its
immemorial trees and wide-stretching park, with the
village nestling at its gates, — the moss-grown church
where lord and peasant have worshipped for a thousand
years, strikes one as an extraordinary achievement in
the way of beauty, magnificence, and comfort. It combines
so many and such contrasting charms. There is
grandeur without parade, profusion without waste,
dignity without ostentation. The present seems linked
by so many outward and visible signs to the past.
There is an air of well-ordered, temperate life — of refined
economy — of cultivated and pure enjoyment — of days
bound each to each by natural piety — a sort of exquisite
propriety everywhere manifest. So, at least, thought
Philip, as he drove up to the Vines, and saw its red
gables showing faintly through the elms, and compare
it with the tumble-down or half-finished palaces, the
ruined gardens, the tawdry splendour, the ramshackle
finery, the ragged rabble of untidy attendants and prancing
horses of the magnates with whom he had had, of
late, to do. Then came some delightful days; mornings
with Sir Marmaduke in dewy, fragrant turnip fields, or
the new-reaped corn-stubble, where the barley shocks

still stood unearned, and the partridges were lying
thick among them. ' These turnips,' he declared, drawing
a long breath, '' are the best thing I have smelt for
an age. We have no good smells in India.' And then,
at the right place, there would be lunch, and the ladies
would come out and join them; and Sir Marmaduke,
having walked enough, and busied with matters at the
farm, Philip did not care to go on shooting alone, and
would send guns and dogs and keepers away, and sit
chatting with his companions in the shade till, soon, the
afternoon was old and the evening rays came slanting
through the woodland. And then, as the two Miss Crofts
could never pass a cottage without going in for a chat,
Camilla and Philip would saunter on, homeward, through
shady lanes and by cool water-meadows, and so reach the
postern gate and the path that led across the park to the
terrace of old cedars that skirted the gardens and lawn.

'This avenue,' Camilla said, as they watched the
sun's last rays lighting up bough and stem with a
golden glory, ' is my pet haunt. It always makes me
think of an idea I read somewhere of venerable trees
that seem to be pronouncing a benediction, "Grace,
mercy, and peace be with you." '

I feel as if they were,' said her companion ; ' I shall

always remember them as dear and sacred friends, who
stood over me and gave me a blessing in some of the
happiest moments of my life.'

Alas that such happy moments should fly so fast !
Autumn was already come, and winter near at hand.
Before the spring buds were out Philip would be back
again in India, and these golden hours only a recollection
!

Some natures, though affectionate and even loving,
find it difficult to make love. With others, when a
charming woman is their companion, the difficulty is
not to make it. Philip's difficulty had always been
of this last order. The sentiment of delighted homage,
which the prevailing deity of the moment inspired,
was always strong enough to make anything easier
than reticence. It seemed so natural, so pleasant, so
inevitable to feel tender and to express one's feelings.
Accordingly the various young ladies who had inspired
him with this emotion were speedily apprised of its
existence, if not in actual language of the tongue, yet
by those more subtle, but equally efficacious means of
communication with which Nature has provided us.
Philip had no taste for solitude. When he admired, he
desired that the object of his admiration should know

his feelings and should sympathise in them. He was
affectionately communicative, and the natural frankness
with which his communications were made won him, no
doubt, many friends, leo one, however, of the many
charming women who had impressed him, had ever made
so strong an impression as Camilla. It was, perhaps,
owing to this fact that Philip's wooing proceeded less
smoothly than Camilla's friendly attitude and the
warmth of his own feelings might have seemed to
justify. He was quite sure that he had never known a
woman so deserving of homage, so refined, so charming,
so exquisite in taste, so noble in mind. But then this
exquisite taste might easily be shocked — this nobility
had something that rather awed one. Philip was conscious
of being mentally and morally on his very best
behaviour when in Camilla's society. How could he
have ever dared to kiss her at the Paris station ? Should
he ever dare to repeat that agreeable performance?
Philip's courage, however, rose with the difficulty of
his task, and so did his admiration for its object. For
once in his life he experienced the sensation of feeling
something more than he dared to express; and this
unaccustomed sensation added an intense glow to the
fever-heat of his sentiments. He had never felt frightened

at a woman before. Camilla, though sweetness
itself to him, made him feel afraid, doubtful of himself,
doubtful of his success, doubtful whether he deserved
to succeed. So despondency beset him. Then Camilla
would come into the room, so radiant with tender
beauty ; she moved about the task of the moment
with so exquisite a dignity. If she put on a garden-hat,
and went for a stroll on the terrace with her
uncle, was ever a garden-hat worn with such a grace ?
Did ever woman walk with a more nymph-like air,
or show a prettier foot as she stept across the dewy
lawn ? Was there ever so charming a flush of youth,
health, and beauty as shone on her face as she came
in at the breakfast-room window with her hands full
of freshly-gathered flowers ? Then she made tea —
with what an ineffable charm did she officiate at that
sacred domestic rite ! Philip felt it a sort of privilege
to put to his lips the cup which she had filled.
He was, in fact, very far gone in love ; and as
love has been, ever since the days of Ovid, an affair
full of anxious fear, Philip became very much afraid,
and being constitutionally unfit to bear any burthen
alone, poured the tale of his love and his anxieties into
his father's friendly ear. Mr. Ambrose received the

communication with more cordial pleasure than Philip
had ever known him evince at any previous event in
his career — more even than when Philip had won the
Newgate prize poem in his Oxford days.

My dear fellow he said, ' I am delighted to hear
of your wish, and I trust with all my heart you may
succeed. She is as good and charming a girl as I have
ever known. If you could get her, it would be the
making of you. But you must take care. What a
pity your time is so short.'

I don't think the time signifies, father ; we know
each other very well. My conviction is that she has
made up her mind already, but then I can't feel sure
which way she has decided.'

Had Camilla made up her mind ? So far, at any
rate, that she felt a vehement desire that Philip should
not bring matters to a crisis between them by an actual
declaration, and a distressing apprehension that he
would. She liked him very much ; she would have
grieved to lose him. His pleasant courtesy, his friendship,
his devotion were very charming. He brought a
great brightness into her life ; he inspired existence
with a strong, delightful excitement ; he was very agreeable
; but still the thought would suo-gest itself that he

was not the ideal of lier day-dreams. There were feelings
and beliefs in Camilla's mind which were a great
deal to her, to which he seemed to be an utter stranger,
unable to make any response. He seemed to take
lightly matters which to her seemed very serious —
sacred. He passed over with an easy, cynical indifference
topics which weighed heavily upon her as
great problems demanding solution. Her view of the
world invested it with a sort of mysterious sanctity —
a stage where not to play one's part well and nobly
was to miss the very object of existence ; and Camilla's
'well and nobly' meant a great deal — self-sacrifice,
self-abnegation, efforts on a grand scale to enrich mankind
and ennoble human life. George Eliot's exquisite
profession of faith was to her a sort of daily aspiration,
to part with which would be to part with all which made
life worth having —

May I reach
That purest Heaven, to be to other souls
The cup of strength in some great agony,
Enkindle generous ardour, feed pure love.
Beget the smiles that have no cruelty,
Be the sweet presence of a good diffused,
And in diffusion ever more intense,
So shall I join the choir invisible,
"Whose music is the gladness of the world ! '

This was the kind of aspiration that stirred the
inmost depths of Camilla's soul, and made the ordinary
lives of the men and women she came across — the
dull, frigid, heartless ceremonies of social politeness,
the cold, rough struggle of London society, the absurd
little pomp of her uncle's house — seem to her an almost
intolerable travesty of what life was meant to be.
This was her true self to which the true sharer of her
heart would make appeal ; these were the vague, blind
longings and cravings to which he would give form and
substance and definite aim. But nothing in Philip's
character tended at all in this direction. She could
not by any effort of idealising fancy invest him with
those qualities of head or heart with which her sweetest,
highest aspirations had affinity. His aims for humanity
were circumscribed to the tiny atom of it which circled
round himself, his own pleasures, interest, and success ;
and especially his own pleasures. The world appeared
to be to him merely an ' I writ large,' and the ' I '
was a creature of selfish good nature and aimless self-gratification.
He spoke of India as a place where,
amid a great many millions of very abject creatures,
whose condition — the growth of centuries — it was as
impossible to improve as to alter their colour, a man

VOL. I. M

had to make his way and, if possible, his fortune as
speedily as possible. Camilla had been horrified at
some pitiable stories, which she had read somewhere, of
the tragedies of an Indian famine. Such things, Philip
explained glibly to her, were inevitable, quite inevitable,
with a vast agricultural population, living, to
begin with, at a level which an English pauper would
regard as starvation, with scarcely any railways or roads,
and a harvest dependent on a highly variable season.
The mortality, vast in numbers — as everything in the
East is — was comparatively insignificant — and, anyhow,
it was but the effort of Nature to get rid of a redundant
population. It was a necessity ; it was even an advantage.
There was a struggle for existence in which the
fittest survived ; the feeble ones, naturally, according
to Nature's stern but beneficent law, succumbed. Such
explanations struck a chill into Camilla's very soul;
she consoled herself as best she could, still shuddering,
with the reflection that men's theories were often much
harder than their hearts. Still the man, whom one
could really love, the ideal lover, would stand in need
of no such apologies. On the whole she very much
hoped that Philip would not propose, and became, everyday,
more apprehensive that he would ; and, while

Camilla was still dealing with it, in her thoughts, as an
approaching danger, the crisis came upon her; and
Philip was added to the list of Camilla's unsuccessful
suitors.

Her refusal, however, cost her more than she had
anticipated. All the more because she found it extremely
difficult to formulate in any language, that did
not seem ridiculous and high flown, the reason of her
decision. She did not attempt to conceal her King for
him. Philip must never, never doubt her friendship,
her warm friendship, but

The reasons why she stopped there were too subtle
for expression. They sounded absurd, directly she tried
to put them into words. They would seem monstrous
to any one who could not understand them. Philip,
she felt sure, would never have understood them.
What man, ardently in love with a lovely girl, who
confessed to, nay, herself professed her friendship, would
understand being refused because his aspirations were
not high enough, his views about life insufficiently
serious, and the political economy of his explanation of
Indian famines too coldly scientific? You had only
to say it to feel how unnatural it was. Still Camilla
felt instinctively certain that she was right, and with

many tender expressions of regard and wishes for his
happiness, and many affectionate heart-searching compunctions,
bound Philip down not to mention the
subject again before his departure to India. Then her
compunctions became more grievous than ever. Poor
Ambrose was dreadfully grieved, but accepted her
decision with a touching humility. ' I know,' he said,
I am not a quarter good enough for you. What fellow
could be ? but, for all that, I love you with all my heart.
It is a dreadful disappointment — a dreadful grief.'

'It is a grief to me too,' Camilla said, by this time
in a very melting mood, and anxious to bear her share
in her lover's troubles — ' but it is inevitable, believe me.
You must think of me always as your friend.'

'A dear, sweet, cruel, hard-hearted friend,' Philip
said, with a sad smile. ' If you would only have had
me, with all my shortcomings, I would have tried to
deserve you.'

He was gone ; and Camilla's day-dream had ended.
She was awake ; the rose had faded, ungathered. She
was alone again with the stern facts of life ; and very
stern and sad they looked. .

CHATEAU QUI Pale
She is a woman — therefore to be won.'

One of those stern facts was that Camilla would have,
in a few days, to meet Philip's father, who was coming
over to the Vines on some county business with her
uncle. Now Mr. Ambrose touched a very tender spot
in Camilla's heart. He was, in one way, her greatest
friend. She always found it easy to be confidential
with him. He had often talked to her about his books,
and the pure and lofty natures with which they had
made him familiar. Once, when she had driven over to
the Rectory with her uncle, who, as a College visitor,
was bound once a year to inspect the church, Mr.
Ambrose had taken her into his study and left her
there, awhile, happy in a wilderness of books, where
every volume and title filed Camilla's thirsty soul with
rapture.

What a charming room she said, when he returned
from the inspection, and found Camilla with a flush of
pleasure on her cheek, busy with an open volume ; ' and
what delightful companions. I have been reading
Marcus Aurelius. Here is a pretty bit 1 ' And then
Camilla read aloud — an art in which she, unconsciously,
excelled :

'men seek retirement in country-houses, at the seaside, on the
mountains ; and you have, yourself, as much fondness for such places
as another. Still there is no proof of originality in that ; for the
privilege is yours of retiring into yourself whensoever you please — into
that little farm of your own mind, where a silence so profound may be
enjoyed." '

Ah,' said Mr. Ambrose, ' that little farm, my dear,
is what we all have to guard from profane intrusion.
Take care of yours and till it well ; it is a sacred soil.
You shall take the volume with you, Camilla, if you
like ; and take this one too — St. Bonaventura's Journey
of the Sold to God. He too, like Marcus Aurelius, loved
the sacred silence " where none but holy sounds are
ever heard. You will find my mark at all my favourite
passages. See, here is one which I will give you to think
about next time you are alone and in a serious mood :

' ' The perfection of recollection is for a man to be so absorbed in
God as to forget all else, and himself also, and sweetly to rest in
God — every sound of mutable thoughts and affections being hushed"'

Camilla had gone home that afternoon in a happy,
peaceful frame of mind. A new window had been opened
to her mental vision, with a delightful, serene vista.
Henceforward Mr. Ambrose became her guide, friend,
and father-confessor. He lent her many a dear volume
his faithful companion from College onward — and
Camilla found in them and in him the congenial nutriment
which fed her natural mood and taste. They met
but rarely; but Camilla felt a sort of peaceful confidence
in his protecting care and thoughtful, sympathetic
counsels. She had been more open to him than
to any one in the world : and now there was a topic on
which any confidence between them would be extremely
embarrassing.

Mr. Ambrose came, sure enough, on the appointed
day, and Camilla could see at once that he was greatly
distressed. He looked older, grayer, and more careworn.
Camilla had always thought him rather pathetic — a
gentle, dignified, refined nature, bearing the troubles of
life with a patience which scarcely fell short of heroism.
These troubles had been many, and now she had
added to them, she could see, a more than ordinarily
grievous one. He took it, as she had known he would,
as a gentleman should meet a reverse. He was politer,

gentler, kinder to her than ever, in a way that smote
Camilla to the heart. She could not bear the thought
that she had grieved him. What a wretch she was so
to wound this kind and tender friend ! She felt very-much
grieved. She could not, at any rate, let him go
away without a word. * I will come with you, Mr.
Ambrose, if you will let me,' she said, as he was taking
leave of them, ' and walk home across the fields.'

Mr. Ambrose was delighted to take her. It was a
comfort to be alone with him, yet it was alarming, for,
of course, there must be an explanation of what Camilla
most shrank from explaining, if indeed it was not really
inexplicable. They tried to talk commonplaces; the
attempt completely failed. At last in her perturbation
she plunged, with the courage of despair, into the dreaded
topic.

'I am so very sorry,' she said ; ' you are not angry
with me, are you V

Angry ? my dear Camilla,' Mr. Ambrose said ; * what
an idea ! But I am sorry — very, very sorry for Philip's
sake, and my own. I own that I should have liked
you for a daughter-in-law, dearly. I have always wished
and hoped that it might some day come about. I was
rejoiced when I found that Philip's wishes and hopes

were the same as mine. Poor fellow — you would have
been the saving of him. However '

They had reached the postern gate, and Mr. Ambrose
pulled up his horse. Here Camilla was to leave him.
She could not speak ; her heart was aching. Mr. Ambrose
gave her one of his pathetic smiles. She loved this
kind, tender friend, whom she had wounded so badly.
She loved Philip, too, after a fashion. Why was she
rejecting the gift of these kind, generous hearts ? Her
will was wavering. Her heart gave a jump at the
thought that she might, by a word, turn all this sadness
into joy. The two looked at each other, and tears
were in the eyes of each.

You are very good to me,' was all that she could
say, 'and you may pity me, for I am very unhappy
too.'

Well,' said Mr. Ambrose, with a dismal smile,
then we are all unhappy together ; for there is Philip
breaking his heart about you at the Eectory, and I mind
it for him, poor fellow, as much as he does for himself.
How I wish you liked him.'

But I do like him very much indeed,' Camilla said,
with vehemence ; ' I told him so. He is a friend — a
great friend. Why cannot he be content with that ?'

'Why?' cried Mr. Ambrose, with more animation
than Camilla had ever before known him to exhibit;
because, my dear, he loves you : wait, Camilla, till you
love some one yourself, and then see whether friendship
will content you.'

Mr. Ambrose sat watching while Camilla let herself
through the postern gate and waved him good-bye. As
she turned to walk homewards he could see that she
was in tears. Then he drove away, somewhat comforted
in soul, and reflecting that Philip's chance was not,
perhaps, after all, so desperate as he had feared.

Camilla had not long to wait before she began to feel
that friendship between such friends as Philip and herself
is but a very poor affair. She missed him dreadfully.
The house seemed sunk in gloom and silence.
The days, with no chance of a visit from him, were
appallingly long. The half-pleasurable, half-painful excitement
was gone, and gone with it, Camilla found to
her cost, all that o-ave zest to life. She began to doubt
the justice of her decision. Was her estimate of Philip
a fair one ? Suppose that, after all, her theories of
existence were but the fantastic dreams of theorists,
mystics, and recluses, and the shock, which Philip's
speeches sometimes gave her, only the necessary consequence

of contact of the visionary with the real?
Might not his way of talking and feeling about things
be the natural language of men immersed in practical
work, and too busy about it to think about their thoughts
and feelings. She had found in Saint Bernard a passage
in which the human soul was described as a mirror, in
which he, who would see God in it, must keep pure from
every speck or stain, and unobscured by any breath of
unholiness. But were not such conceptions the morbid
dreams of the monastic cell — the hysterical cravings of
half crazy fanatics, scourged, starved, and frightened
into a saintly frenzy? Had not human beings — had
not active young Englishmen, at any rate, — full of
health, strength, and daring, with nerves and muscles
of the soundest possible order, something else to do in
life than to sit polishing the mirrors of their own self-consciousness,
and waiting, like an ecstatic nun, for
beatific revelation ? And, as soldiers in the field talk
lightly of death, was it not natural that busy men,
grappling hourly with practical emergencies, and familiar
with horrors, should use less dainty phrases, should
even think less daintily about them than those whose
lives were stirred by no such excitements, no such rude,
useful, necessary work? Philip might have spoken

with an almost brutal levity of an Indian famine, but
lie had acted admirably. There had been quoted in the
Times a ' Resolution ' from an Indian Gazette, in which
his good deeds were set forth by a grateful Government in
no faltering terms. Sir Marmaduke read it out at breakfast.
The famine had been in charge of Sir Optimum
Maximus, and he had made it historical ; and amongst
other topics, which engaged his historic muse, was the
admirable zeal and disinterested self-devotion, with
which the officials concerned, and Philip amongst the
rest, had busied themselves in camp and hospital and
many a far, outlying, squalid hamlet, in combating the
dreadful foe. Sir Optimum possessed a rich official
paint-pot, and wielded a lavish brush. Each officer
received his daub of rose-colour. Mr. Ambrose's hospital
arrangements were especially commended, as
sensible, effectual, humane. 'The warmest thanks of
Government are due to this officer for the untiring zeal,
wise foresight, and administrative capacity, which he
evinced throughout a long succession of difficulties and
anxieties, and which rendered his famine camp, despite
all its inevitable sadness, a bright spot amid the surrounding
gloom.'

So the Resolution ran on in streams of grateful

panegyric. The fact was that PhiHp Ambrose and a
lot of young fellows, finding themselves suddenly transformed
into almoners-general and poor-law inspectors
for a country half the size of England, had set themselves,
with a good will, to meet the emergency as best
they might. Philip had ridden his fine Australian
horses fifty miles a day on inspection tours, had laid out
famine camps, organised food depots, and distributed rice,
with the enjoyment that a vigorous lad feels in a piece
of important work, and quite unconscious of achieving
anything heroic till Sir Optimum's Resolution informed
him of the fact. Camilla now read the glowing phrases
with a beating heart. This was the man, whose love,
so generously proffered, she was rejecting ; and for
what reason that was not too fantastic for expression ?
Mr. Ambrose, her old and faithful and sympathising
friend, who knew Philip better than any one, saw no
reason, evidently ; for he urged her to accept him. On
the other hand, an obstinate, quiet voice, in Camilla's
innermost soul, sounded clear and unmistakable, and
counselled refusal. Camilla began to feel desperate, —
as if all power of decision were deserting her. Meanwhile
she was supremely miserable. The days were
slipping fast away. In a few weeks PhiHp was to start

for India, and then the mistake, if mistake it was, would
be irreparable. At last, in her despair, she consulted
her Aunt Augusta.

Aunt Augusta, under her composed exterior, was a
sentimentalist. She had, in her youthful days, had a
desperate affair with a penniless curate, in which all
her own happiness had been shipwrecked, and of which,
even now, she sometimes thought with an aching heart.
She had been right on that occasion and her advisers
wrong ; for life had been cold and dull and gray to her
ever since. She felt about all such subjects with a sort
of terror at the pain they may occasion. Camilla found
her kind and sympathetic.

He is a very nice fellow, dear,' she said.

I know that only too well,' said Camilla bitterly,
but that is not the same thing as marrying him. Do
you think I should be happy ? '

You are very unhappy now,' said her aunt.

Yes,' said Camilla ; ' I know that too — as deplorably
miserable as any one could be, and I have been getting
worse every hour since I refused him.'

Aunt Augusta sat looking at her for an instant, awed
by a sense of responsibility. Camilla met her look with
another of helpless expectancy. Then the die was cast.

'My dear child said her aunt, 'sit down here
and write to him to come to you at once. You are
thoroughly in love with him, but you are frightened.'

Camilla burst into tears. ' I believe you are right,
Aunt Augusta she said ; ' I love him — I know it to
my cost — but I am dreadfully frightened.'

So Camilla's fate was sealed ; she wrote the letter,
there and then, with a trembling hand. Aunt Augusta,
greatly impressed with the solemnity of the crisis, and,
her match-making propensity mastering all thoughts of
prudence, — took charge of it, and, as a precaution
against any further wavering, sped it, forthwith, on its
way. Camilla stood at the window with a beating
heart, and watched the groom go galloping across the
park, carrying her fate with him. A dreadful terror
seized her, which all Aunt Augusta's exhortations could
not allay. She would have recalled the messenger even
now, had it been possible.

Be a little courageous, dear,' said her gentle consoler
; ' why should you be frightened ? '

Frightened ! ' cried Camilla, shivering and pale with
excitement, ' I am indeed. Don't you see that I am an
arrant coward ? Do all women go through this sort of
thing before they are engaged ? '

Yes,' said Aunt Augusta, firmly, for she felt that it
was no moment to stick at trifles, ' they all do ; you will
be as happy as possible when once you have seen him.'

And so it proved. Philip, in the course of a few
hours, arrived, and speedily put all Camilla's doubts and
fears to flight. He played his part as accepted lover
with a confident, yet respectful joyousness, which infected
Camilla with a sudden fit of high spirits. His
tenderness was so natural and gay ; his mood was so
congenial ; his admiration so heartfelt, that any further
hesitation would have seemed a sort of treason. Camilla
forgot her coyness, and, in a sudden rush of sentiment,
told him all he needed to make him the happiest of
mortals. After all, it is delightful to be worshipped,
and Philip was an excellent worshipper. Camilla felt
remorseful for her doubts, and showed her repentance
in a sweet, tender contrition. There was no longer any
room for doubt. A happy pair of lovers, they strolled
about the garden in a sort of enchantment, and came
back to the prosaic realities of life (and dinner at eight
o'clock was a solemn reality at the Vines, which nothing
short of an earthquake could have disarranged) with the
air of favoured beings, to whom the celestial aspect of
existence had been suddenly revealed.

Well ? ' said Aunt Augusta, as Camilla came into
her room, radiant and serene, as she had never seemed
before.

It is more than well,' said Camilla, with an air of
rapt fervour ; 'he is all that I could wish. Why did
I ever hesitate? You were my good genius. Aunt
Augusta, when you put these foolish doubts to flight.
How can I ever be grateful enough to you ? '

Philip rode home that night in a sort of ecstasy.
The silent meadows through which his path lay were
enchanted ground. The moonlight seemed a flood of
magic radiance. It was no common night — no common
world. Life was transformed and glorified. Camilla's
sweet, refined nature had inspired him with something
higher, purer, more serious than he had ever known
before. 'To have loved her,' it was said once of a
charming woman, 'is a liberal education.' To love
Camilla, to be loved by her, to be the happy master of
that noble heart, to read its thoughts, to be admitted to
its sacred shrine, was, Philip felt now, a revelation of
undreamed-of delights — of unimpassioned heights, where
privileged spirits move in finer air than that which
ordinary mortals breathe.

Mr. Ambrose came over the next morning with

VOL. I. N

Philip, and added to the general rejoicing. Camilla
could not have believed that he could look so radiant.

My dear, dear Camilla he said, holding her hand
with an air of paternal benediction, 'you have made
me very happy.'

'And I too am happy,' Camilla said, giving him a
filial kiss — 'and I shall have a very dear father-in-law.'


LAST DAYS IN England

He kissed my haud, lie looked into my eyes,
And love, love was the end of every phrase ;
Love is begun : thus much has come to pass ;
The rest is easy. '

Philip's return to India was drawing near, too near to
admit of any question as to Camilla's accompanying
him. Even if it could have been delayed, Camilla felt
a great disinclination to be hurried from her home and
her English life. It was decided in a family conclave
that she should follow in the course of the winter, as
soon as the business arrangements could be completed
and some desirable companions for the journey found.
Meanwhile, it was but natural that the young lovers
should make the most of the days which still remained
before their first separation. These days were very
charming, and the charm spread beyond the two people
immediately concerned.

Mr. Ambrose had grown quite young again, and lived
the days of his courtship once more in his sympathetic
appreciation of Philip's good fortune. He had never
been gay since the dark hour that closed his own
married life ; but now a great happiness had befallen
him exactly at the point of his being where feeling was
most acute, and his heart was light. Father and son
strolled arm in arm about the Eectory garden, descanting
on Camilla's character and singing her praises, like a
pair of shepherds in an eclogue. Philip learnt now that
his father — ascetic as he looked — had once been a lover.
He had been in depths of despair at Philip's rejection ; he
was now as elated as the young lover himself. Philip had
brought him Camilla's portrait, which was to be their parting
gift, and which, placed on an easel in the study among
all the sombre books and faded Oxford prints, seemed
to light up all around it with a ray of youth and joy.

She is beautiful, dear Phil,' his father exclaimed ashe
stood admiringly before it, ' and it is the best sort of
beauty, the fitting shrine of the beautiful soul within ;
what sweet eyes, and what a noble brow —

' ' Dilated nostril, full of youth,

And forehead royal with the truth." '

And what courage, father,' said Phil, delighted at

his father's congenial mood. 'Richmond has caught
that well, has he not ? —

' ' Courage was cast about her like a dress
Of solemn comeliness ;
A gathered mind and an untroubled face
Did give her dangers gi-ace."

Camilla has a pretty hand, too, the prettiest I ever saw.
I wish it was in the picture.'

Mr. Ambrose's thoughts at that moment were busy
with other topics than Camilla's hand. He turned to
Philip with a sudden gravity; the tears were in his
eyes : 'Dear Phil ' he said, ' you have been very fortunate.
May God help you to deserve your good fortune.'

At the Vines Philip's high spirits and joyous love-making
spread a sort of brightness over the dull, old
house and its commonplace inmates. By a fortunate
instinct he did and said exactly the right thing — the
nice thing, on each occasion, to each person concerned.
The result was that he was a general favourite. Sir
Marmaduke's disapproval of the alliance, which at first
was pretty emphatic, had been neutralised by Aunt
Augusta's judicious diplomacy, and by his own conviction
— the result of previous experience on similar occasions
— that Camilla, in such matters, was fanciful,

determined, and unamenable to the ordinary influences
by which well-regulated young ladies may be supposed
to guide their decisions at this critical stage of their
career. How it should come about that any woman,
out of Bedlam, should prefer a young Indian official,
with the certainty of expatriation and the probability of
impaired health and great many other drawbacks and
discomforts, to a comfortable country gentleman, with a
fine park within a dozen miles of her home, or a well-connected
clergyman, who had already got a good living,
and might, very likely, ultimately become a dean — was
one of those mysteries before which Sir Marmaduke's
intellect fairly broke down, and which made him think
that there must be something radically wrong in the
condition of society, when such blunders could be made.
On the other hand. Sir Marmaduke rather dreaded an
encounter with Camilla's sharp wit, and knew that he
was powerless to convince her. 'Are you quite sure
that she has made up her mind ? ' he asked his sister.

I am absolutely positive,' said Miss Augusta — who
had now taken the engagement under her special protection,
and was committing herself more and more
deeply to its success — 'and I trust, Marmaduke, that you
will say nothing to distress her.'

I shall tell her what I think Sir Marmaduke said,
decisively ; and so he did, With the unpleasing sensation
that he might just as well have been addressing one
of the marble statues in the hall. Camilla's nerves were
brought up to a high pitch ; she was entirely unimpressed
by her uncle's dark picture of the disadvantages
of an Indian husband.

I love him, Uncle ^larmaduke,' she said, * and I
love India, beggary, illness, and everything else that
loving hmi involves. I would go with him to the end
of the world. Pray, say no more.'

She held her uncle's hand; the tears stood in her
eyes ; her lip trembled with excitement ; she looked the
very embodiment of courage and devotion. How oppose
such a mood as this with the cowardly suggestions of
worldly wisdom ? Sir Marmaduke felt his defeat, and
was obliged to content himself with deploring that such
a high-spirited girl should be so entirely irrational.

She looked like a young martyr,' he told his sister
afterwards, * and talked like a fool. She must have her
way, I suppose, as her mother did before her.'

Sir Marmaduke eased his conscience by resolving to
be very firm and exacting in the matter of Camilla's
settlement. People were continually asking him to be

their trustee, aud he determined that all his experience
should be now devoted to safeguards this wilful
young lady's future by every expedient that human
ingenuity could devise.

One awful morning Philip was summoned to Sir
Marmaduke's study, — a dread-inspiring chamber, with a
portrait of Sir ]\Iarmaduke's father, as M. H. of the
Vine Hunt, on one side, and a statue of Mr. Pitt, turning
up his nose at the enemies of his country, on the other ;
and here he found the worthy baronet and Mr. Greaves,
the family solicitor, drawn up in conclave for the interview.
Mr. Greaves, a thin, shrewd old gentleman, profoundly
versed in the affairs of the Croft family, and
devoted to its interests, had come down from London
for the occasion, and treated it with the solemnity of an
affair of State. He congratulated Philip with ceremonious
courtesy on the prospective alliance, and was
greatly interested in Camilla's fortunes. ' Dear me,' he
said, ' I remember drawing her mother's marriage-settlement
more than twenty years ago. We discussed it in
this very room — do you recollect. Sir Marmaduke ? '

Perfectly,' said the other, with the air of a man with
whom family events were far too important to be forgotten,
and whose standard of what was befitting could

not easily be moved ; ' and I am sure I hope this affair
may turn out more happily than that did.'

Well, sir said Philip, trying desperately to resist
Sir Marmaduke's melancholy tone, ' I am not likely to
get killed in battle, am I ? '

I am sure I don't know,' said Sir Marmaduke,
equally determined to shut out any ray of consolation ;
'in India, I am told, the civilians have frequently
to attend military expeditions, and even to lead
them ; but let us get to business, Mr. Greaves, if you
please.'

Philip had been feeling more and more abject ever
since the interview began, and was now completely
prostrated by having to confess that he had no immediate
possessions to settle on his wife. He was entitled to
some £10,000 at his father's death, and his father had
promised to allow him £300 a year as long as he held
his living. Besides this, Philip had a good appointment,
and if anything befell him, his widow would have a
pension. ' Humph ! ' said Mr. Greaves, and Philip felt
his annihilation to be complete. Sir Marmaduke looked
stern. The Master of the Hunt seemed to be frowning
at him from the middle of the hounds, as if he would
like to lay his hunting-whip across his shoulders ; Mr.

Pitt's nose was higher in the air than ever. At this
stage of the proceedings, however, Sir Marmaduke gave
Philip the agreeable information that Camilla was something
of an heiress. Her mother's property had been
judiciously nursed into a comfortable little fortune.
Sir Marmaduke had watched over the investments, in
which he had placed his niece's little store, and took a
personal satisfaction in its growth. As a banker, he
knew of all the good things that were going, and some
of them had proved to be very good indeed. Then, one
of Camilla's great-aunts had left her a legacy, which
had swelled the total of her patrimony, and had grown,
with the rest, under Sir Marmaduke's fostering skill.
Sir Marmaduke, however, with Mr. Greaves to abet him,
now felt it due to the occasion to raise objections and
contemplate various remote contingencies and embarrassments
with an anxiety which appeared to Philip very
unnecessary. ' In the event of your predeceasing your
wife and leaving a family,' suggested the solicitor with
ruthless bluntness, ' and your father (as he may very
likely wish to do on account of failing health or fifty
other things) resigning his living, what would be Mrs.
Ambrose's position ? '

Philip had not contemplated this adverse conjunction

of events, and felt completely unable to suggest any
proper expedient by which it could be met. ' That is a
very unlikely thing to happen,' he feebly remarked.

My dear young gentleman said Mr. Greaves, with
a provoking air of superior sagacity, ' when you are as
old as I am, you will know that it is just the unlikely
things that always happen, and, in any case, the use of
a settlement, as Sir Marmaduke well knows, is to provide
for the unlikely things. Don't you remember the
story of poor Lord O'Eush, who stopped in the middle
of making his will to go to lunch, and fell over a step
and broke his neck as he was walking from his study
to the dining-room ? '

Good heavens ! ' cried Philip, ' Mr. Greaves, don't
tell such fearful stories — you make one quite nervous.
I do not intend to break my neck, at any rate, I can
tell you.'

Possibly not,' said the solicitor ; * nor, I presume,
did Lord O'Eush. All the same, this is a serious
matter, and I don't see how it is to be got over.'

It was got over at last by Philip's suggesting that
his father's covenant should not be contingent on his
retaining his living. Mr. Ambrose, he was positive,
would agree to this. ]mr, Greaves was constrained to

admit, with some reluctance, that if this were so,
Camilla's future might be regarded as moderately well
safeguarded against absolute destitution. And then
Sir Marmaduke announced that he intended to give
his niece £2000, to be put into settlement with the
rest. At last Philip escaped, with a great sense of
reef, to the drawing-room, where Camilla was awaiting
sj him.

'It is all over, thank goodness,' he said. 'Everything
is all right, and we are to be as rich as Croesus ;
but, Camilla dear, what a dreadful sort of personage a
family solicitor is — his mind's eye occupied with all
sorts of horrible possibilities. Let us go into the garden
and forget him and them amongst the flowers.'

Poor fellow,' said Camilla, ' you look tired to death.
I am tired too. I have had a dreadful morning over
my village-hospital accounts — why is it, alas ! that all
good deeds involve so much arithmetic ? Come under
the cedars, and you shall lie on the grass while I finish
Elaine to you.'

'Delightful!' cried Philip ; and so the happy lovers
strolled across the lawn, and reached their favourite
haunt, and soon forgot their troubles and fatigues in the
happy oblivion of propitious love-making. All this

part of the business Philip did to perfection ; Camilla
could not doubt, at any rate, that, whatever might be
his other imperfections, her lover was excessively in
love.

Philip had not, however, even now arrived at the
last of Mr. Greaves's persecutions. That gentleman, it
soon became apparent, was far from satisfied, and took
a most gloomy view of Camilla's intended alliance. The
whole thing, he felt, was rash and inexpedient. His
firm were not accustomed to draw settlements in which
the prospective husband settled nothing but promises
and contingencies, and in which the accidents of life in
India had to be taken into account. It was not like
Sir Marmaduke's usual good sense to have allowed such
an alliance for his ward. Camilla ought to have found
a home in one of the county families. He went over
to the Eectory and talked about the marriage in terms
which Mr. Ambrose, who, in his quiet way, stood immensely
on his dignity, felt to be covertly disrespectful.
Greaves, he found, had been to the India Office and
made all sorts of impertinent inquiries about Philip's
position, pay, and future pension, as if Mr. Ambrose's
word were not enough. When, some weeks later, Mr.
Greaves came down to the Vines with the settlement.

his dissatisfaction was apparent even to Sir Marmaduke,
and excited his alarm.

What is it you do not like, Greaves ?' he asked, confidentially.


Well, sir,' said the solicitor, ' I go by instinct, and
I instinctively doubt young Mr. Ambrose. He looks
weak, and is a wretched man of business. He knows
nothing about his own affairs, such of them as there are
to know. I feel pretty confident that he is in debt, and
he will die in debt — men with that sort of expression
always do.'

Mr. Greaves's warnings, however, came too late. Sir
Marmaduke was as much annoyed at an arrangement
which he had approved being called in question as Mr.
Ambrose had been at the suggested disparagement of
his son.

Suppose now,' Mr. Greaves said, in his cheerful
way, ' he dies in some remote spot — Masulipatam, you
know, or Chandernagore, or that style of place — with
no friends at hand, and with a number of outstanding
bills, what a position Mrs. Ambrose and her family
might be in! We ought to have provided for it, Sir
Marmaduke.'

Come, come, Greaves,' Sir Marmaduke had answered

testily, ' the thing is settled now, and it will do well
enough.'

All the same he hinted his anxieties to Mr. Ambrose,
and Mr. Ambrose to his son.

What is it that they want ? ' cried Pliilip in a passion.
' I tell you what I will do, father. I will insure
my life the moment I get back to India.'

That is a good notion, Philip,' said his father ; ' I
wish you would. I really can do nothing more for you.
Go and tell Sir Marmaduke at once what you mean
to do.'

SINCLAIR

I have lived
As he lives, who through perilous paths must pass, —
And lifelong trials, striving to keep down
The brute within him — born of too much strength
And sloth and vacuous days — by difficult toils,
Labours endured, and hard-fought fights with ill ;
Now vanquished, now triumphant ; and sometimes,
In intervals of too long labour finding
His nature grown too strong for him, falls prone —
Awhile, a helpless prey — then once again
Rises and spurns his chains and fares anew
Along the perilous ways. '

An escort was found for Camilla in time to give
her the benefit of such approach to cold weather as
Cerulean enjoys — in time, too, to initiate her into the
horrors of the overcrowded vessels, which, as winter
approaches, carry out to India a multitude of officials
rejoining their appointments, of wives rejoining their
husbands, and of tourists, who in the course of the

SINCLAIR 193

ensuing three months intend to master for themselves,
by ocular inspection, the various problems of Indian
administration. Camilla was not inspirited by her
surroundings. She tried in vain to find them picturesque
or interesting. A considerable portion of her
fellow-passengers bore the stamp of shabbiness ; others
were objectionable smart. Several young ladies lost
no time in establishing flirtations of a vulgar order ;
several married women followed, or, perhaps, set them
the example. The Brandons, under whose protection
Camilla was travelling, were not much of a resource.
Colonel Brandon was a heavy, worn, dull man, whose
twenty years as a police officer had left him apparently
with few ideas about India, except that it was a
supreme misfortune to have to return to it. Mrs.
Brandon was gentle and depressed, with occasional
flashes of rather dreary amusement at her own misfortunes.
Her appearance told a tale of hot seasons in the
plains, of frequent ill-health and of generally enfeebled
powers, on which life was continually making overdrafts
in the way of uncongenial effort. Her existence had
been too hard, too busy, too hopeless, to allow of any
of Camilla's high-flown ideas of self-improvement or embellishment.
Her heart was aching now for the boys
VOL. I.

and fjirls, whose school arrangements were an unfailing
source of perplexity, and the dearly-beloved youngest
born, whom the doctors had said was just too old to
confront India in safety, and from whom, for the first
time, her mother had been obliged to separate. She
shared Camilla's cabin, and soon became confidential.
Her revelations were not of an exhilarating order. Life
had to her little that was bright. They were dreadfully
poor, she told her companion ; her husband's chances of
promotion had been, for years, fading away, as one by
one the opportunities arrived and passed without result.
They were heartsick with disappointment, and had determined,
with a rather sad stoicism, to hope no more.
Their income was barely enough to cover the school
bills at home and the current expenses of Indian life.
Every month the fall of Exchange was making them
sensibly poorer. One of the girls was delicate, and
required constant care and every sort of luxury. She
ought to have been wintering at Cannes. It was heartbreaking
to be obliged to leave her in a shabby comfortless
home, in a chill English suburb. As Charles Lamb
said, it is not only the classes known as 'poor' that
have to ' drag ' their children up, instead of bringing
them up, as richer folk can afford to do. Camilla felt

Sinclair 195

all this very depressing, dingy, and incompatible with
any theory of life which could be regarded as tolerably
adequate. Such lives seemed to her merely one long, degrading
struggle with poverty. She was quite relieved to
see that Mrs. Brandon cheered up considerably in public,
chatted away with vivacity in a daily enlarging circle
of acquaintance, did not scorn a valse when occasion
offered, and was roused into actual enthusiasm by the
private theatricals which some enterprising young
travellers extemporised on the quarter-deck. On the
whole, she gave Camilla the idea of a rougher, sterner,
more work-a-day life, than any with which she had as
yet come in contact in the safe, sheltered confines of
the Vines — a life whose rough and smooth aspects
had alike to be accepted — whose duties, often onerous
and unattractive, had, as a matter of course, to be discharged,
— whose pleasures must be accepted for what
they were worth, and made the best of. The idea of
any fortunate, brilliant event coming their way, or of
life leaving room for any heroic achievement, did not
fall within the range of Colonel Brandon's wildest flights
of fancy. What a dreary ambition ! What a life, unlit
by other hopes than these ! Those flights seldom
ranged beyond the chance of acting for a while in the

appointment of some more fortunate compeer, or the
delightful possibility of becoming a head-jailer in
England. These good people's story struck Camilla
rather sadly. It was like that of some humble member
of a theatrical company, not aspiring to, hardly wishing
for, a lucrative or conspicuous role, but earning his
wages by a conscientious performance of an ungrateful
and almost unnoticed part. Camilla began to recognise
that life in her uncle's comfortable house was, however
dull, a luxurious affair, fenced round from the rude
world outside — different from the stern, laborious
struggle with the prosaic and often ignoble difficulties
which beset the existence of ninety nine hundredths
of mankind. She consoled herself with the reflection
that the life, at the threshold of which she now stood,
was, at any rate, extremely real, and with the hope,
which the facts of the case rendered not irrational, that
her future husband might be one of the happy few for
whom fortune had some especial prize in store. A
more solid ground of comfort was that, for better fate
or worse, she would now, in a few weeks, be with the
man she loved.

The Brandons soon found acquaintances on board ;
people whom they had known before, or whom they knew

about, or with whom similarity of employments, common
friends or common anxieties, presently furnished
an adequate supply of topics for the sort of conversation
that is possible in the hurly-burly of a crowded deck.
None of them seemed to Camilla in the faintest degree
interesting, with a single exception. One day Mrs.
Brandon introduced her to a Major Sinclair, who was
on his way to join his regiment at a Coerulean station.

I am sure I don't know if you will like him,' Mrs.
Brandon told Camilla beforehand ; ' I do not like him
much myself. He is too intense for my taste, and
takes everything too tremendously in earnest. But
he is a frustrate soldier, they say, and, moreover, a
great reader. He will talk to you about books as
much as you please. He will be a comfort to you on
this stupid voyage.'

And so Camilla found him. He proved an invaluable
ingredient in the mild composition of the little temporary
world in which, for the next month, she was to live. He
had been five years in India and was now returning, not
in the best of spirits, Camilla could see, after a year's furlough
at home. He and Camilla not unfrequently found
themselves companions for a portion of those interminable
evenings, which the deities who govern that portion of

man's destiny have decreed that everybody shall spend
in the twilight of a badly-lighted deck.

Friendships grow quickly on board ship, and before
the voyage was nearly over Camilla found that she had
glided into great intimacy with her new-found friend.
Sinclair was extremely sympathetic. He looked at the
world from much the same standpoint as her own.
His theory of life was her own too, only tamed by actual
experience — a struggle to ennoble it, to rise above its
temptations, to trample down everything that could
degrade, to seek high aims. It was impossible to resist
so good a claim to her regard. Nor did Camilla feel
inclined to resist, for she was very much impressed.

Sinclair left on her mind the idea of a more
intense character than any she had hitherto met.
There was a laboured calmness about him which
bespoke an habitual effort at control and compression,
and a systematically maintained mastery over feelings,
tastes, and passions which were capable of a desperate
struggle for mastery. His temper loomed in sight,
every now and then, just enough to assert a vigorous
existence and to admit accustomed subjection. His
opinions were clear, definite, unqualified ; standing, clear,
and hard, in the sunshine, with none of the hazy

atmosphere of indistinctness which gives some minds a
convenient intellectual chiaroscuro. His likes and,
dislikes, especially the latter, were of the most vehement
order.

Talking to him,' said Mrs. Brandon, * is like being
in a gale at sea : his talk exhausts one by its very
strength. Other men seem like silver paper to his
granite ; but then silver paper is the best for wrapping
such small wares as mine. Major Sinclair is absolutely
granitic'

Camilla, however, liked the granite, and she found
that Sinclair, if he had a giant's strength, had no wish to
make a giantlike use of it. He was always delighted
to talk to her, and on whatever subject she close to
start ; he broke off from his books — of which he appeared
to have an endless supply on hand — with cheerful
readiness whenever the chance of doing anything for
her, or with her, presented itself He took her out of
the crowd for long walks on the upper deck ; he devoted
his afternoons to teaching her whist, not the gentle,
guileless, and somewhat fatiguing struggle which her
aunts and uncle waged through quiet evenings at the
Vines, but the profound and exact system of tactics
which Cambridge mathematicians have elaborated for a

later generation. Camilla soon recognised the dignity
of the newly revealed science, and became extremely
interested in understanding Sinclair's instructions and
applying them.

They are he said, ' the nearest approach, hitherto
discovered by mankind, to eternal principles ; anyhow,
they are essential to the salvation of whist, if it is to be
saved from degenerating into a dull pastime for babies.'

It is incurring a grave, moral responsibility to play
at all,' said Camilla ; * happily I now know my leads, so
that I am safe from one set of heresies ; but my conscience
is not yet alive to the call for trumps.'

It was not into the laws of Cavendish alone that
Sinclair found it an interesting employment to initiate
his new companion. He was no sooner assured of her
fellow-feeling on some points than he seemed possessed
by a vehement desire to command her sympathy on all.
Camilla found that any difference of opinion between
them appeared to give him real concern. He took a
great deal of trouble to convince her that they did not
really disagree, and was quite uneasy till their agreement
was clearly made out. Confidence once established,
Camilla found a daily increasing interest in
exploring her companion, and in conquering his re-sinclair

201

reluctance to talk about himself. She discovered in him
a vigorous impersonation of the commonplace, but by
no means common, creed, in which doing one's duty is
the main article of faith and the inspiring sentiment.

Fame, success, enjoyment, happiness, all seemed — as
she understood Sinclair's modest and unconscious self-delineation
— matters for which he had no ardent aspiration.
They were accidents which befell some menas
did wealth, high birth, good health, good looks, or
any other piece of good luck ; but they were no objects
for serious desire, far less active effort. To perform his
appointed task with a scrupulous and conscientious
exactness, to get through life without some dreadful
shortcoming, to sacrifice whatever was necessary for its
performance, to die in the last ditch or on the last barricade
— such was Sinclair's ideal of felicity ; no other
view of life could render it endurable, or reconcile one
to its innumerable vicissitudes. Camilla found his
theory of life a graver one than any she had hitherto
confronted in real life. That its prizes fell often to unworthy
recipients gave him no pang of envy, no feeling
even of annoyance. It was the natural order of things ;
and the success of most was too dearly bought to create
any feeling but one of surprise that they should think it

worth its cost. To a great extent it was a lottery. One
lad, loyal, able, brave as a lion, with all the making
of a great commander in him, gets knocked over in his
first engagement, or dies of sunstroke the day before the
battle. Another fellow arrives at the right moment,
has the good luck to keep his head clear of the cannonballs,
and finds himself a few weeks later figuring in
gazettes, and be-praised and be-medalled and be-lettered
into fame.

You know what Othello says of reputation, — "an idle
and most false imposition, oft got without merit and lost
without deserving." The only sensible thing is not to
care two straws whether it comes or goes.'

But,' said Camilla, ' what about the last infirmity
of noble minds V

That means, or ought to mean,' said Sinclair, ' that
it is the last infirmity which a really noble nature ought
to have.'

'What!' cried Camilla; 'you would not have men
without ambition surely V

It comes to few of us,' said Sinclair, ' to have a chance
of indulging it. Everybody must like the good things
on which ambition feeds, but one is much better without
them. Take public life, for instance, full of delightful

interest and excitement, of course ; but just look at
the sacrifices which it involves — the surrender of leisure,
independence, individuality, all that makes life worth
having. Look at its struggles, its degradations, its disappointments,
and, worst of all, its rewards. Fancy
working hard at it for twenty years to find oneself a
burthen to one's party, politely ignored by one's friends,
edged out of a Cabinet, shelved with a convenient
sinecure, or banished to a colonial governorship. What
a way of spending life ! '

Ah,' said Camilla, ' that is for the unsuccessful only ;
but then, of course, one is determined to succeed.'

Yes,' said her companion, by this time warming
into his defence of indifferentism ; 'and if you do, is
not success, often, the worst misfortune of all ? Has
not the function of statesmanship been reduced, as
Matthew Arnold says, to " the cult of the jumping cat " ?
and is not the most successful statesman he who has the
keenest instinct of the way she means to jump, and
most encourages her in jumping. Has not the greatest
statesman of the day laid it down as a political axiom
that the most important duty of a leader is to ascertain
the average opinions of his party, and largely to give
effect to them ? ' .

That is from the point of view of self-preservation
said Camilla, who had learnt from her uncle, at any
rate, to be somewhat of a politician. ' A Government
has got to keep itself in existence, you know, like anything
else.'

Yes,' said Sinclair ; ' but from the other points of
view, — honour, justice, reason, and the common weal.
Are they all to be sacrificed to a degraded opportunity ?
Fancy, now, being admired for half a century as the
greatest politician of one's day, and ending it all by
breaking one's party to pieces in an abortive attempt to
dismember one's country, with half your countrymen
doubting your sanity, and the other half your rectitude.'


That,' said Camilla with a laugh, ' must have happened
to some statesman of antiquity, — anyhow, I am
for ambition. "A crust of bread and liberty " is all very
well ; I have always had an idea that, notwithstanding
its perils, the town mouse had the best of it after all.'

]Nor did Sinclair, Camilla found, show a weaker front
to the pleasures of life than its ambitions.

'Pleasant things are pleasant of course,' he said;
but most people make too much fuss about them, exalt
them to a philosophy or a religion. I think they area

very poor religion. I suppose it is very prosaic,
something wanting in my nature, but that is how
they strike me. I see that many things have a charm,
a reality, a meaning for other men which they have not
for me. Beauty is one of them — in art, in literature,
in our mode of life. I cannot worship it. I cannot
understand how a man can satisfy himself by making
it the end of life, by filling existence with prettiness,
by surrounding himself with elegant trifles, by providing
a continuous succession of artistic effects, a series
of exquisite sensations. I don't venture to decry such
men — very likely they are higher, more refined natures ;
but I cannot understand them.'

But,' said Camilla, ' was not the love of the beautiful
the chief light of the world till Christianity
eclipsed it, or, rather, supplied a new standard of
beauty?'

Yes, and that is why I can least of all understand
the sestheticism of people and natures that have drunk
the strong drink of Christianity — with its solemn view
of man's being, its awful depths, its dreadful menaces, its
enrapturing hopes, its saints and martyrs. It seems tome
a sort of pitiful falling away — a sinking to a lower
level. Existence is to me a grave, rather a grim affair.

where each one has his load of duty to carry. One can
carry it, if one tries, — with more or less success, probably
less. One is always making the most hideous mistakes,
the most deplorable failures ; the great thing is to try
to do one's best. Whether it is pretty or not, seems
beside the question. This view is Puritanism, I suppose,
but the Puritans had a good deal to say for
themselves : at any rate I am one myself. The world is
too old for the child-play of the Greeks — the broken
toys of a Greek nursery, lovely though they be. It can
only be done by resolutely shutting one's eyes to the
real world around one — its atrocities, its miseries, its
dreadful, cruel wrongs — its trampling on the weak — its
gross impudent frauds — its rapid passage into the un-peaceable
gloom beyond. How can one stand in the
midst of such things and be thinking merely of whether
one's own little speck is beautiful or no ? It is like
the naturalist at Paris who went on arranging butterflies
in his studio all through the reign of terror. I
would rather have been out with the fighters on the
barricades.'

Ah,' said Camilla, ' you love excitement ; you have
a weak point, you see, like the rest of us.'

Yes,' said Sinclair, ' I will confess to that common

failing of Englishmen. The moments when I have
been excited have been the most delightful of my life.
But then the excitement must be a strong one, something
that really stirs a man's blood.'

Storming barricades, for instance,' said Camilla ;
not the discovery of a new butterfly. That is why you
chose to be a soldier, I suppose V

^ It is a reason why I have never regretted my choice
of a soldier's life, notwithstanding its vexations, its
pedantries, its disappointments. You are unlucky, out
here, if you do not get a campaign sooner or later, and
then all your doubts about your profession disappear.
You drink a stronger wine of life than any that can be
had elsewhere, and it makes all other drink seem very
poor stuff. I was in a charge once, and a half-hour's
fight ; it was called a skirmish of cavalry, and history
has never deigned even to name it, but I would not
have lost that half-hour for a lifetime of quiet existence.'

But after all,' Camilla said, ' that sort of excitement
is only a sort of moral dram-drinking.'

Yes,' said Sinclair, ' but it is a dram one gets so
seldom that there is no risk of its hurting one, and
when you taste it, it is nectar.'

AT SEA

Some unborn sorrow, ripe in fortune's womb,
Is coming to me, and my inward soul
With nothing trembles . . .
I cannot but be sad.'

Camilla now came to appreciate the truth that, when
once we leave the safeguarded barriers of home behind
us, our intimacies and friendships depend on other
forces than our own free will. Forcible as circumstances
always are, they are nowhere more irresistible
than in the close-packed microcosm of a ship. Camilla
had started on the voyage with the desire .and the
prospect of a quiet — in one sense a solitary — month.
She was longing for solitude. She had passed through
a great deal of late, much that was agitating : she had
come to a momentous decision, and she wanted to be
alone with her own thoughts, and to realise to herself,

AT SEA 209

in undisturbed reflection, the meaning of what she had
done, and what she was about to do. There were many
scenes, many conversations, which she desired to recall ;
and where could the process of recollection be better
conducted than in the enforced idleness and monotony
of sea-life and in the solitude of a crowd of strangers ?
And all around her were completely strange, as strange
as people of another world. The Brandons made no
advance to familiarity, nor did Camilla feel inclined to
be familiar. Mrs. Brandon, on further acquaintance .
revealed nothing that could serve as a common ground
for thought or feeling. She was a weary, hopeless
woman, scrambling through a fatiguing existence as
best she could, with poverty always at her elbow, and
the cares of each day more than each day's strength
sufficed to meet. Her protests against her lot were not
without a touch of somewhat dreary humour ; but her
flashes of fun were few and far between. Her thought
never travelled beyond the petty interests of a life that
was only saved from being ignoble by the sturdy fortitude
with which it was endured. So far as interesting
Camilla, or being interested in the things for which
Camilla really cared, she was no more than any other

of the crowd of unknown beings with whom she was
VOL. I. p

sharing a month's captivity. With no one else had
Camilla even a speaking acquaintance. So, for some
days, when she started on her journey, she had felt, and
was glad to feel, very much alone. Then Sinclair had
appeared on the scene, and Camilla, before many days
were over, was conscious that she was understood,
appreciated, impressed, in a manner which defied indifference
and brought her sense of isolation to a sudden
close. Sinclair's strongly marked personality could not
be ignored : nor would the current of Camilla's thoughts
run on stirred by the ideas he called to light and the
moods which he excited. Camilla had, at first, resented
the sort of influence he began to exert upon her, and
tried to repel it : but Sinclair, quite unconscious of her
efforts, was not to be repelled. Of what use was it to try
to conceal from oneself the fact that he had a hundred
things to tell her that she cared to hear — feelings
to express which stirred a sympathetic pulse — tastes
which were common property — convictions which, once
uttered, gave the speaker the privileges of a common
faith ?

Thus, before the Indian Ocean was nearly crossed,
Camilla found herself sliding, insensibly, into an
intimacy with Sinclair, more real, serious, and far-reaching

than any she had ever yet formed with anyone,
except, perhaps, Mr. Ambrose ; and her confidences
with him were rather such as are breathed by a disciple
into the ear of a spiritual father than the free intercourse
of mind with mind. With Philip her intercourse
had been too brief, too agitating, too passion-stirred to
allow of analysis or even of thorough knowledge. She
knew but one aspect of his character — the bright,
effusive, mirthful, affectionate, sentimental side. It was
a sweet, gentle, lovable aspect. What was the rest of
him like ? She had still to find out. But Sinclair, as
they sat and chatted through the long evenings, made
her feel his whole range of sentiment and belief stamping
itself forcibly upon her own mind. He had nothing
to conceal, nor would any form of concealment have
been compatible with his notion of the rational ends of
human intercourse. He bore her alone with him on
the strong current of his own convictions. His theory
of life was hard, rugged, even distressing ; yet it had a
pathos and a sort of solemnity of its own which sank
deep into Camilla's soul. Here, at any rate, was a man
who was walking on the heights, unattracted by vulgar
aims, unimpeded by vulgar infirmities, stirred, not by
enthusiasm — for enthusiastic Sinclair never was — but

by a noble instinct and moral chivalry, which was to
him a sort of religion. He opened to her an altogether
new horizon of thought about the strange country which
was to be her future home. ' Read all you can get hold
of about Buddhism,' he said ; ' the story of the grandest
effort of mankind towards the spiritual, the sublime :
it is, to say the least of it, the step-sister, if indeed it
is not the mother, of Christianity. That has revolutionised
the western world — has it not ? and given it whatever
of nobility it possesses. Well, Buddhism did the
same for India and the East. The story of Sakia-mooni
is a foreshadowing, — too close in its resemblance to
admit of any explanation but relationship, — to that
sacred life which we in Europe venerate as divine. It
is a beautiful life, inspired by the same tender compassion
for the miseries of mankind that has carried Christianity
— like a ray of heavenly light — to so many
millions of aching hearts. But it is dying as religions
do. Perhaps it has reached the stage when, as they
say, an expiring creed is like the setting sun ; its rays
can no longer give warmth, but only create forms of
beauty.'

Do all religions die then ? ' asked Camilla.

'A great many have died, that is certain,' said her

companion. ' One may stand in a Buddhist temple —
only not ruined, because it is cut in solid rock — and
wonder who the men were who prayed and fasted,
chanted solemn litanies, or, in the solitude of the monk's
cell, tried to come to terms with conscience two thousand
years ago. All has gone but the solid rock itself. Do
you remember Matthew Arnold's dirge ? —

'the Sea of Faith

Was once, too, at the full, and round earth's shore

Lay like the folds of a bright girdle furled.

But now I only hear

Its melancholy, long, withdrawing roar,

Retreating, to the breath

Of the night wind, down the vast edges drear

And naked shingles of the world." '

How dreary ! ' said Camilla ; ' but there are sweeter
and more inspiring sounds, surely, than that to the ear
that is attuned to hear them. There are some tides
still, are there not, which run full and strong. Men
must have a living creed.'

Would you like to hear a fine one ? ' said Sinclair,
taking up the volume which lay beside him. ' I was
reading it when we began to talk. It is as grand as
St. Athanasius's, and a great deal easier to understand.'

Yes,' said Camilla, * let me hear it.'

It is poetry Sinclair said, ' but none the worse for
that ; ' and then he began :

"We stand on a mountain pass, in the midst of whirling snow
and blinding mist, through which we get glimpses, now and then, of
paths which may be deceptive. If we stand still we shall be frozen to
death. If we take the wrong road we shall be dashed to pieces. We
do not certainly know whether there is any right one. What must we
do ? 'Be strong and very courageous. ' Act for the best, hope for the
best, and take what comes. Above all, let us dream no dreams and
tell no lies, but go our way, wherever it may lead, with our eyes open
and our heads erect. If death ends all, we cannot meet it better. If
not, let us enter whatever may be the next scene, like honest men,
with no sophistry in our hearts and no masks on our faces." '

That is very impressive,' said Camilla ; 'it is like
the old Norseman's idea of life being the bird that comes
into the bright hall from the stormy night outside,
flutters an instant in the light, and disappears again
into the darkness. But I object to your description of
it as a creed — it is rather the half-desperate courage of
a man who has to live without one.'

At any rate he believes in the mountains, the snowstorm
and the precipices,' said her companion, 'and
that is something — and more than many men achieve,
in the way of belief, nowadays.'

Well,' said Camilla, ' I am thankful to travel by a
lower road and a safer one. A kind hand leads me

through some peaceful valleys, and I fancy I sometimes
catch glimpses of the white presences of the immortals
on the mountain side. Life is full of delightful possibilities,
surely.'

Yes,' said the other, * but look at its horrid disappointments
— its dreadful failures, and what they mean
in the way of suffering and degradation. Who could
be enthusiastic about it?'

'Ah,' said Camilla, 'that is it — you have no enthusiasm,
Mr. Sinclair ; you are a pessimist of the worst order.'

Sinclair must have been in particularly bad spirits
that day. ' Yes,' he said, ' I am a pessimist, so far, that
I do not regard life as particularly worth living, or the
world and its prospects as brilliant enough to kindle
any very ardent hopes. It seems to me a gallery of
more or less disastrous mistakes ; and one is so liable
to make mistakes, and bad ones, that it is an escape to
have done with life before their occurrence. It is like
riding a bad horse out hunting in a difficult country —
a fall, sooner or later, is inevitable; why should one
make the experiment ?'

Don't frighten me, please,' said Camilla ; ' I am on
the brink of one such experiment myself. I am going
to be married.'

CHAP.

'I know said Sinclair, turning pale as he spoke, and
with a set look in his face which Camilla had already
learnt to interpret as the signal of some unusual effort
at self-restraint ; ' pray Heaven it may be one of the
successful experiments.'

Of course said Camilla ; 'I intend it to be a splendid
success

'I hope and trust, indeed, that it will said the
other.

Sinclair's face wore a grave, determined look — the
look, Camilla fancied, of a man whose composure is not
rest but repression, and whose mental eye is saddened
by the prospect of troubles to come. It was a sad look
and grave, and brought no ray of encouragement to her
anxious soul. She dreaded — she almost hated him, as
one hates the prophets of evil. Sinclair said no more,
nor, much as she longed for it, did his companion dare
to bid him divulge his gloomy thoughts.

As the days went by, Camilla became conscious that
this reticence weighed increasingly upon her spirits.
It was a refusal to be sympathetic exactly where sympathy
was most needed and could best have been
given.

It was disappointing to her, and, in her apprehensive

mood, seemed somewhat ominous that, though their
intimacy had reached a very confidential stage, Sinclair
never volunteered an observation on her impending
marriage — could not, even, be led to do so. She stood
greatly in need of reinforcement, such as his sympathising
approval would have supplied. She knew, necessarily,
but little of her future husband — of his character
so much only as could be discerned in the commerce
of society and the treacherous mirage of a courtship ;
of his daily life, work, and habits, as near as possible
nothing. It would have been a relief if Sinclair would
have said something about him which would ratify her
judgment — some expression of friendship or esteem —
some story, some act, something upon which her willing
fancy might build its edifice of hope. Sinclair knew
Philip perfectly, and even had lived in the same house.
But, beyond this, he was resolutely silent, and would
not take Camilla's hints to be communicative. Eather,
her sensitive ear seemed to detect a settled intention
to satisfy the requirements of courtesy without saying
anything that could gratify her inquisitiveness or throw
a ray of light on the common object of their thoughts.
Philip, he said, was a great favourite, and had now
justified his reputation as the luckiest fellow in the

world. He liacl such a pretty drawing-room and such
lovely old china. This was not the sort of thing of
which Camilla stood in need, or that it was natural for
Sinclair to say on such an occasion, or, indeed, to say at
all. Why should the thought of Philip suggest a reference
to pretty drawing-rooms and choice pottery ? Why
were Sinclair's communications on the subject so obviously
artificial ? Why did they come to so abrupt a
close? Camilla felt it depressing and not a little
alarming. She tried to delude herself with the explanation
that, perhaps, this was the sort of thing that
happened when one was married, and that Sinclair
would have regarded a compliment to her future
husband as an impertinence to herself But no : the
explanation, Camilla knew well enough, would not
do. It was not a question of compliment. It was a
matter of life or death. She wanted to be assured that
the man to whom she had given her heart, her happiness,
her life, was deemed by those who knew him
worthy of the trust. This was what she craved for —
and on this Sinclair, who seemed generally to read her
wishes almost before they were conceived, could not be
induced to throw a ray of light.

CAMILLA'S BIRTHDAY

Labour fait tout excuser ; mais il faut etre bien sur qu'il
y a de labour.'

Sinclair's silence was not without a cause, though not
exactly the cause which Camilla's fears suggested. It
was not so much his knowledge of Philip's antecedents
that made it difficult for him to speak, as his consciousness
of what was going on within himself. He knew
various things about poor Phil which would have gone
far to disillusionise his future wife, if she cherished any
illusions about him as approaching a lofty ideal of
moral perfection. He had in his desk, at that very
time, an I.O.U. for sundry thousands of rupees, which
Ambrose had given him before his departure for
England by way of temporary settlement of an old
standing debt. Philip, a year or two before, had been
ordered to a station as Sinclair was leaving it, and,

with his accustomed magnificence, had offered to take
his house, horses, and household belongings off his hands.

You are not in a hurry about the money, I daresay
V he had added, lightly.

'No' Sinclair had said ; 'I am in no hurry ; pay me
just when you please.'

Philip had taken full advantage of the accorded
delay — an advantage which, as the weeks and months
rolled by, and the opportunity of paying the debt never
presented itself, had often made Philip feel uncomfortable
and ashamed. Somehow, whenever he had been on the
verge of accomplishing the feat, some untoward accident
intervened to stave off accomplishment. Stow it was a
creditor, whose forbearance was less proof against impatience
than Sinclair's, and whose impatience would
make itself disagreeably perceptible in ways to which
Sinclair would never resort : now it was an alluring
investment, in which one might well hope to turn an
honest penny by a judicious courage in immediate outlay
: now a run of bad luck at cards or a rash bet :
now a new horse, a tempting carriage, a lovely set of
engravings, or choice books, happening as bad luck
would have it, to be going at the moment for cash, and
which Philip could not bring himself to do without, —

had swept away the sum with which he had meant to
set himself straight with Sinclair. So a year had passed,
and when Sinclair had gone to England and had asked
for the money, Philip had been constrained, with shame
and confusion, to confess his inability to pay, and to
give his creditor this wretched I.O.U. by way of assuring
future liquidation. What business, Sinclair had asked
himself, had Philip to be going holiday-making to England
with such a debt unpaid ? Still more, what business
had he to marry while that and other debts, of
which pretty persistent rumours were floating about
Coerulean society, were hanging about his neck? It
would have been easy enough, however, to ignore all
these as well as other indications of Philip's frailty
and to give him whatever support, in his future wife's
esteem, might be derived from a generous acknowledgment
of his good points. But the problem that was
beginning to force itself on Sinclair's mind was less
simple, and its solution was replete with embarrassing
struggles and alternatives. That problem was, What
is the duty of a punctilious man of honour when he
discovers that he is falling, or perhaps has fallen, in
love with a woman, whose faith is pledged to another,
that other being, from the necessities of the case, absent

and unable to protect his own interests? Sinclair's
creed, his tastes, his temperament, his sturdy habit of
self-control, of choosing, when in doubt, the least agreeable
course of conduct — all conspired to give a clear,
concise reply. He must turn from the idea, conscience
said, as from any of the pleasant temptations to meanness,
self-indulgence, and dishonour with which life
abounds. The woman who was his temptation now
was as good as married. She was alone ; she was
defenceless ; the man, to whom her love was given and
whose presence would have been her best protection,
was, through no fault of his, absent. She was at that
critical stage when doubt and fear must ever be close
at hand. Could it be right to play upon such doubts
and fears to one's own advantage ? Supposing Camilla
was induced to change her mind, would not the act be
one which cynics were used to quote as a typical instance
of woman's frail purpose and varying mood?
Supposing the positions to be reversed, and Ambrose
to have done to him what he was now tempted
to do to Ambrose; what would he have felt? No.
Honour, conscience, and chivalry pronounced it impossible.


It is so easy to say impossible ; but when the impossible

thing happens to be one's heart's desire, the one particular
atom of the universe which makes the difference
between joy and woe, between life being a dreary void —
flat, dull, unprofitable, as Hamlet found it — or a dream
of rapture, ablaze with unimagined delights — then one
scrutinises the impossibility with more minuteness ;
and differences begin to be discernible. A woman's
engagement, after all, is no vow, especially her engagement
to a man who courts her for a few weeks in the
course of a holiday run to England. She knows — she
can know — next to nothing of him. Is she not entitled
to whatever additional knowledge Fortune may bring
within her reach before the irretrievable step is taken
and her doom finally sealed? If there be cause for
doubt, by what law is one bound to conceal it ? nay,
rather, is not concealment the cowardly act of an accomplice
? * Ambrose,' said the inward voice, ' will never
make her happy, and you know it. In moral, intellectual
fibre, in taste and tone, in earnestness of purpose,
in purity of character, above all, in delicacy of conscience,
she is worlds above him : she will discover her
mistake, her fatal mistake, when it is too late. Can it
be wrong, is it not rather a sacred duty to undeceive
her, while disillusion can bring something besides regret

and misery? Why stand by, like a fool and coward,
with folded hands, and see her happiness and your own
shipwrecked ? Serious questions indeed, and difficult
to answer, except in the way that Sinclair wished with
a vehemence that rendered all calm reasoning impossible.
He could only turn fiercely away from the
delightful seduction. He would never be a poacher.
The prize was Ambrose's, worthy or not, and Sinclair
resolved that his should never be the hand to snatch it
enviously away. Camilla had made her choice, and
one could, after all, only conjecture as to the causes by
which that choice was influenced. She had never given
him the least pretext to intrude within that region of
her thoughts. What right had he to do so ? His intimacy,
he resolved, should go no farther.

So Sinclair resolved ; and having resolved, became
forthwith convinced of the futility of his resolution.
The very consciousness of it left no room in his mind
for any other thought. He went sternly to his cabin
and got out a huge treatise on Modern Siege Operations,
which he had destined to be the pUce de resistance of
his voyage, but which, somehow, till now had remained
uncut. It was one thing to cut the pages with a determined
hand ; another to re-establish the serene passivity

of mind, when the intellect will play its part and each
function of the brain work harmoniously to the desired
result. Where this is not, — when the soul's citadel is in
disorder, what dust and ashes do the materials of thought
become ; what a mockery the attempt to bid intellect
perform its accustomed duties. Sinclair plunged heroically
into the law of trajectories, and forced his way
from formula to formula, from one dreary exposition to
another, and only realised, in doing so, how bootless is
the attempt to make the mind work as if it were a
mechanical instrument, regardless of its environment of
flesh and blood, of nerves and tissues, of hopes that
stimulate and passions that consume. A man may fill
his eye's retina with engineer's diagrams and the serried
millions of the mathematician's art ; but the mind's eye,
who shall dictate what it shall see, what visions shall
brighten it with rapture or dim it with misery? So
Sinclair found now, as he sat through weary hours,
furious with his own weakness, and read or seemed to
read. In vain he bent himself to his book, and forced
his attention to the page, continually growing more and
more unmeaning. It was in vain : one face — why lie
to oneself any longer about it ? — one dear, sweet face

shone through it all — one voice was the only sound that
VOL. I. Q

Sinclair cared to hear — one look, one word from her,
his very soul was longing for it with an intensity which
only burnt the hotter for every attempt to ignore it.
He shut up his book with a groan ; and as he shut it
Mrs. Brandon's voice from overhead summoned hun to
come on deck and join her party.

Pray come and talk to us,' she said, as he joined
them, ' and help us through this dreary afternoon.'

Camilla looked up from her book with the kindest,
brightest smile of welcome. No suspicion of Sinclair's
predicament had, it was obvious, crossed her mind.
She made no secret of her pleasure at his arrival ; why
should she ?

Yes,' she said, closing her book; 'I have had enough
too much of the Renaissance for to-day. Mrs. Brandon
and I both want badly to be amused; and why have
you been deserting us all day?'

Deserting you ?' said Sinclair, in consternation at
the prompt discovery of his intention, ' no, indeed ; but
I have been deserting my profession shamefully of late,
thanks to too pleasant companions. Look at this portentous
volume which I have vowed to finish before we
reach India — all but the first dozen pages uncut.'

Well,' said Mrs. Brandon, ' you chose a bad day to

begin, for you must know that we are keeping high
holiday to-day, and want it to be as pleasant as
possible.'

Camilla was in her brightest, most joyous mood.
Sinclair had never seen her looking so serene, so satisfied
and hopeful — so bright with that most efficacious
of female embellishments, the certainty of being loved.

Yes,' she said, ' it is my birthday, and I want you
to wish me joy. I have had a very happy day — a letter
and a beautiful present, and I am in the best of spirits.'
And with this Camilla showed a little Indian gem that
sparkled at her neck, and told him how it had been in
the captain's custody since Aden, and how she had
found it on her pillow that morning, on waking, with
the letter — a pleasant surprise. ' So, you see,' she said,
I have a right to be in good spirits, have I not ? and
that my friends should wish me many happy returns of
a day as bright as this one.'

And I do,' said Sinclair, valiantly rising to the
occasion, 'wish you all joy from the bottom of my
heart. Well, how are we to celebrate the day as it
deserves ? '

By a rubber,' said Mrs. Brandon, who never lost a
chance of her favourite amusement. ' Go and wake

CHAP.

my lazy Colonel, who is asleep there m the easy
chair

Yes said Camilla, who, fancying that Sinclair was
in bad spirits, wanted to be especially kind to him,
and we will be partners, if you please. Major Sinclair,
and retrieve our yesterday's defeat.'

Sinclair's resolutions had been heroic, and Fortune,
to reward his heroism, decreed that it should be his
fate, after dinner, to take Camilla for a walk, and to sit
by her side, in a sort of enchantment, through a long
evening, on the outskirts of an amateur concert, the
charms of which were not lessened by a little distance
a distance sufficient to allow of subdued conversation
without discourtesy to the performers. Camilla was
joyful, longing for sympathy, and in a more than
usually courageous mood.

I want you to be very nice to me to-night,' she said,
and to say exactly the sort of things I want to hear —
to make the day perfect. Talk to me about my future
life.'

And your future husband,' said Sinclair, determined
to go through the business heroically. ' That is what
you really mean, is it not ? Well, now let us see. He
is one of the best liked men in India, and a general

favourite. You will find yourself in the midst of
friends.'

That will be nice said Camilla ; ' go on in that
way, please.'

But I can only tell you what you know,' said her
companion. ' He is very bright and clever, of course —
you know that.'

'Yes,' said Camilla; * everybody, I believe, thinks
him that.'

*Yes,' said Sinclair, 'and very charming in society.
You are not the first young lady who has thought him
adorable.'

I dare say not,' cried Camilla, mentally rejoicing in
the plenitude of her own good fortune; 'and now to
reward you for being so nice, I will show you something
that came this morning in my letter : would you like
to see his photograph ? '

Immensely,' said Sinclair, only too glad to purchase
Camilla's approval at any price. ' Well, he looks rather
adorable, I admit. What business has a man to be so
picturesque, I should like to know ! But he is a fortunate
fellow, as I always say.'

And deserves his good fortune,' cried Camilla, gleeful.


No said Sinclair, firmly ; ' I will not say that, even
to please you. No man, in my opinion, could do that;
but it is something to be fortunate — deserve it or no.'

Well,' cried Camilla, in the best of spirits, ' I maintain
that he deserves it ; I ought to know, ought I not ?
My letter this morning was a treasure.'

Phil's birthday epistle had, in fact, been a very
pretty bit of love-making — as bright and natural and
full of affectionate nonsense as any young woman could
wish to have it. The historic muse shall not desecrate
it by revelation to any other eyes than those for which
it was intended. Suffice it to say that Camilla had
stolen down to her cabin, more than once in the course
of that happy day, to reassure herself, by perusal, of
its delightfulness, and had wept some happy tears of
joy and gratitude over each loving phrase. It had
been indeed a golden day. Sinclair would have been
worse than a churl if he had marred its golden perfection,
or his dear companion's joyful mood, by a single
unsympathetic word.

END OF VOL. I.

A CRISIS

He either fears his fate too much,
Or his desert is small,
Who dares not put it to the touch,
To win, or lose it all.'

The confidences of that day, which Camilla, in her hour
of joy, entrusted to Sinclair's unwilling ear, made a sensible
difference in their relations. Camilla showed no
wish to recede from the intimacy which such confidences
implied. She felt Sinclair to be her friend, and evidently
wished him to consider himself such. She trusted his
judgment ; she appealed to him for advice ; she relied
on his opinion. Having once broken the ice about her
engagement, she naturally talked much of the subject of
which her thoughts were full, of the man who was now
the master of her heart. Their greater intimacy convinced
Sinclair that Camilla was thoroughly in love
1 VOL. II. B

with Philip Ambrose. It was equally clear that she
was altogether in the dark as to his real character.
Sinclair had by this time convinced himself that it
would be a cruel act of disloyalty to leave her undeceived;
none the less was he certain that she would
resent the disillusion : she would regard the hand that
brought it as an enemy's. Nor would Sinclair be able
to conceal from her any more than from himself the
mixed character of his motives. He was anything buta
disinterested adviser, on the contrary, the advice was
of the supreme personal interest to himself. He
was firmly resolved on the enterprise, but it was a
desperate venture, a forlorn hope. He would speak,
but his words would, a persistent instinct forewarned
him, lead to certain disaster. This sweet, gentle
creature, who, with the confidence of an innocent mind,
was pressing her friendship on him and asking for his,
was capable, he felt certain, of a very different mood ;
and that mood would reveal itself the moment that she
felt her love called in question, her loyalty assailed, her
ideal of honour endangered. So Sinclair grew very
much afraid, and, as courageous men do when fear
besets them, rushed blindly to his fate. The opportunity
presented itself a night or two before their

journey's end. There had been a group of idlers on
the upper deck, watching the great volumes of phosphoric
light go streaming by. One by one the onlookers
had departed, and the two found themselves alone.
Camilla, too, rose to go, but Sinclair stopped her. * Stay,'
he said, ' I have something to tell you, and I can conceal
it no longer. I fear saying it as I have never feared
anything before, because I am risking your esteem.'

No,' said Camilla ; ' I feel no fear of that — what is
your confession about ? I feel confident that you can
tell me nothing of yourself that will endanger our
friendship.'

But it does endanger our friendship,' said the other;
it will probably ruin it. I am going to ask you to do
what the world will condemn and society deride — what
you will, at first, think wrong — what is wrong, except
for the higher, special reasons which make it right, of
which we must judge for ourselves.' Camilla rose from
her chair with a gesture of terrified surprise. The
colour had left her cheeks. Then she turned as if to
confront a suddenly disclosed foe. ' I dare say,' Sinclair
went on, ' that you will resent it as a blunder and an
insult. You will condemn it as a crime. But here is
the truth. I love you from the bottom of my heart. I

would die to serve you. I know your character. I
know that I could make you happy. I ivill make you
happy if you will give me the chance. More — I know
what a tremendous thing it is to say, and I say it
advisedly — I will save you from unhappiness — from
certain misery and disappointment. Believe me ; trust
me ; I claim the right by the law which bids us claim
our highest good, regardless of less sacred obligations,
regardless of the casual, ignorant opinion of society,
regardless of pain to others, regardless of everything but
the passionate necessity, such as I now feel, to have
you as my own.'

Camilla felt a chill terror taking possession of her
soul, and darkness settling thick upon her. Here was
this strong man, shaken to his very heart's core by
emotion, speaking with a positiveness — a decisive, imperative
tone, which implied full knowledge of the facts
asserting his claim in a way which carried a sort of
conviction of its justice — laying an injunction upon
her with an authority which seemed to trample down
resistance. She felt a sort of cowardly instinct that, if
he went on, Sinclair would convince her against her
reason, her will, her very vow. The step, to which he
was urging her, was one which had never crossed her

mind as possible, as conceivable : it was base, her conscience
told her — weak, faithless, despicable — humiliating
even to have thought of, degrading, repulsive, when
actually urged for her acceptance. She had given
Philip Ambrose all the treasure of her heart ; she had
consecrated her love with tender vows and the pledge of
mutual devotion. She was her betrothed's, and he washers,
in the sight of Heaven, and no law, no rite could
bind them by a more indissoluble tie. What meant
these threats of unhappiness with which Sinclair sought
to terrify her into compliance with a dishonourable
request? Unhappiness indeed? Where for her was
peace and happiness to be found but with the man who
was master — unquestioned master — of her heart ? Abandon
him ? abandon the vows, the prayers, the consecration
of body and soul, the dreams of bliss, in which,
far more than in her outward surroundings, she had for
months past been living — the bliss now almost within
her grasp? What madman was it that breathed the
monstrous suggestion to her ear?

'You were right. Major Sinclair,' she said, 'in one
thing ; I resent your proposal as an insult — the greatest,
the worst that could be offered to me — an invitation to
degrade myself by an act of perfidy to the man whose

love is all I care for in the world. Our friendship — it
can never have deserved the name — is at an end. I
beg you leave me.'

I can never leave you said Sinclair ; ' do what you
will, I shall claim you as mine by a higher right than
any that can be urged by society or forged by law — the
right of a nature like mine, which finds a nature which
he can understand, with every movement of which he
can sympathise, whose aspirations are his, which is his
as you are mine — by the supreme right of absolute
devotion. Whatever becomes of you and of me — I shall
worship you with my dying breath.'

I am defenceless,' said the other. ' You might spare
me. How can you bear to ask me to break faith ?'

It is no breach of faith,' said Sinclair, ' to do what
I ask you — no breach to recall a promise made blindly
in the dark, in ignorance of the truth, in ignorance of
what your promise means, and of the man to whom
you made it. Recall it, for God's sake, while yet you
can. I bid you do it. Be the responsibility mine.
I am certain I am right.'

*And I,' said Camilla, 'am certain that you are
wrong. I know not, nor care to know, the meaning of
the disparagement that you are cruel, cowardly enough

to insinuate against an absent man — my husband, ashe
is in the sight of God though not in yours. Be his
faults what they may, he is mine for better or worse,
and I am his ; I am certain of his love, and he of mine.
Your threats and hints but make me long for the moment
when he will be at hand to protect me from outrage.'

Camilla's cruel words were cutting into Sinclair's
very soul, but he gave no sign of suffering.

*As you prize your own happiness and mine,' he
said, in tones of solemn persistency — * as you care to
save your life from ruin and mine from misery, think of
it but till tomorrow. Give me one night to hope. By
the God above us, who sees our hearts and knows if
I am speaking true, I conjure you to let me save you.
Think of it but till tomorrow.'

I will harbour no such mad and guilty thought for
an instant,' cried Camilla ; ' why persist in tormenting
me ? I implore you to leave me.'

God help us both, then,' said Sinclair in a solemn
tone that lived in Camilla's ear for ever after.

He was gone. Camilla was alone. She sat on the
now deserted deck in the silence of the night and tried
to rally her forces, mental and spiritual, after that
dreadful encounter with the passion-shattered, imploring

man who had just left her. She had repelled him
with indignation ; she had laughed to scorn alike his
entreaties and his threats ; and she had been right.
Still his strong will and impassioned earnestness had
told upon her. She was still trembling with excitement
; but, as the excitement died away, there loomed
in the horizon a dreadful misgiving — an agonising
doubt. What was it that Sinclair knew about her
future husband that made him so certain, that gave
such alarming distinctness to his threats ? He was no
random talker, Camilla knew full well. What meant
that vehement, positive prediction of unhappiness ?
What had meant, all through the voyage, his persistent
refusal to respond to her invitation to enlighten her as
to Philip's character? It meant something, she had
always kno^vn. Now the fact was staring her in the
face. Sinclair was certain that she would be miserable,
and his opinion was one which, but an hour ago, she
valued almost beyond any one's in the world. It hasa
terrifying thought ; her vehement resistance to it was
really terror. She knew that she had pronounced the
doom of Sinclair's happiness. An awful misgiving shot,
with a sudden pang, into her mind, whether she had
not pronounced her own.

GOLDEN DAYS

Ah, the joyous days
Of innocence, when Lore was Queen in Heaven,
And Nature unreproved ! Break they there still,
Those azure circles on a golden shore ?
Smiles there no glade upon the older Earth
When, spite of all, — gray wisdom and new gods —
Young lovers dream within each other's arms.
Silent, hy shadowy grove, or sunlit sea ? '

OxE morning the state of things on deck bespoke an
impending break in the monotony to which, for some
weeks past, Camilla and her fellow-voyagers had been
growing accustomed. For several days an unusual
painting, cleaning, and furbishing-up had been in progress.
Xow the hatchways were opened, donkey-engines
were plying their noisy task, and huge piles of cargo
and baggage were emerging from the cavernous depths
below. A new excitement stirred the Kettle community
fi-om its habitual attitude of languid endurance.

The ship went on, ploughing its way through a
tranquil sea, but tranquillity no longer reigned among
its denizens, least of all in Camilla's mind. Tedious
as the voyage had been, its tedium seemed, in her
present agitated mood, a welcome refuge from the
excitements and anxieties of such an arrival as hers
would be. She had longed for it; yet she could not
bring herself to feel about it otherwise than as somewhat
formidable. It was becoming alarmingly near,
and Camilla's soul was never proof against alarms.
As the day wore on, telescopes were in request, and
before noon it was announced from the look-out overhead
that land was in sight. That dull horizon, which
for so long had been a sort of unmeaning limit to the
field of vision, suddenly became full of the keenest
interest. In another hour the low Cerulean coast rose
slowly into sight, and Camilla's heart gave a bound as
the outlines of her future home began to reveal themselves
distinctly. She had always felt a nervous apprehension
of meetings, however little really formidable;
but now what a meeting awaited her ! The change from
a lover in one hemisphere to a husband in another was
a tremendous transition. What woman was it that first
summoned courage for such an undertaking? Whose

was the first audacious soul that dared it? Did not
love itself, the most timid of entities, shudder at the
proximity of such an ordeal? A world of strange
people, and strange sights ; all the familiar surroundings
of existence separated by an ocean's width ; every trace
of home obliterated — a new world, and — a new life — and,
newest and most terrific of all sensations — a husband.
The man to whom a woman's love is promised should
be ever close at hand to reassure her that she has promised
aright. It was months since Camilla had seen
Philip Ambrose, and in those months the old misgivings
had sometimes haunted her. They gathered strength
as time went on, and the final moment, when her decision
would become irretrievable, was now close at
hand. The terrible scene with Sinclair, bravely and
promptly as she had met it so far as his advances
were concerned, had left a deep impression, and would
not be so summarily dismissed from Camilla's thoughts.
It was terrifying to have her original doubts reinforced
by Sinclair's certainties ; and with what certainty, what
terrible decisiveness, he had assured her that her present
step would be an irreparable blunder. With what
imperative earnestness he had urged upon her a step
which, strong as was his personal interest in it, he

would not, Camilla felt conscious, have counselled without
a positive conviction of its justice and wisdom.
What did Sinclair know or believe, that made him confident
of his right to advise Camilla to break off her
engagement ? She had dismissed him summarily ; but
it was not so easy to dismiss the anxious questionings
which his conduct had suggested. She had bound him
to silence, and she knew that her wish in this respect
would be law. There was a still, small voice, however,
that would not be silenced, and which whispered that
his warning: was a wise one. So Camilla stood at the
vessel's side and watched. The coast was growing
clearer ; the dingy, low-lying buildings of Windipatam
were distinguishable; quaintly-rigged sailing vessels
began to hover around ; the vessel rolled and pitched in
the long ground-swell : presently the engines stopped ;
a little horde of native boats settled, like a flock of seabirds,
around the arrested leviathan. In another minute
Philip came pushing his way through the crowd. His
eager, joyous look and tender greeting put all Camilla's
doubts to flight.

Then began a period during which Camilla seemed
to herself, then and afterwards, half-dazed with excitement.
She was too frightened and agitated to collect

her thoughts — to gauge her feelings, to review her
position, to recede from it, even if she had wished to do
so. All that could be done was to go on as boldly, or
at least with as little exhibition of cowardice, as the
nature of the case allowed. She retained, in after times,
a dreadful recollection of a crowd of strange faces, of
innumerable introductions, of the solemn moment when
her husband and she pledged their mutual vows before
God and man ; of the toast with which mr. Chichele,
who acted for the occasion as her guardian, bade them
God speed on their journey that day begun. It was a
comfort when it was all over, and Camilla found herself
at the end of her journeyings and of her excitements, in
her own house and alone with her husband. One of
her life's ideals had shaped itself into actual existence.
The rose was plucked. Her lot was chosen : henceforward
doubt or fear would be not only a folly but a
crime.

Nor was there any room for doubt or fear in Camilla's
happy soul. Joy, hope, and courage lit it up with a
serene radiance. She was tired in mind and body ; she
had passed through a long period of excitement, disturbance,
moral and physical fatigue. At last she was at
rest, blissful rest — rest too perfect for its blissfulness to

be questioned. She had felt, all her life, an ardent longing
for happiness ; now happiness of an intense order
had come to her, and Camilla met it with joyful gratitude
and gaiety of heart. How should she not be gay ?

A load had been lifted from her spirits, always till
now weighed down by adverse surroundings. She had
her heart's desire — desired, in vague, fond expectation,
through patient years of waiting. She had loved someone
in thought, and had endowed him with all lovable
qualities from the rich treasure-house of her generous
and ardent mind. Xow the well-beloved one sat at her
side — a living reality — and told her with sweet words
and tender acts that her gift of love had not been
lavished on an unworthy recipient.

Philip made a perfect lover. He was greatly in
love ; and nothing was easier, more natural, more delightful
than to let his love bespeak itself in what
utterances it would. His mood attuned itself instinctively,
by a natural tact, to that in which his wife would
wish him to be. He knew the things which pleased
her, and those were the things, just now, that pleased
him most, and about which alone he cared to think and
feel. So Camilla found him delightfully congenial and
sympathetic, — set up her little domestic altar of hero-worship,

and, in half - ecstatic adoration, bowed her
sweet, pure brow before it. She brought to it many a
votive gift and fragrant offering of pious incense.
Along with all her lofty theories, and the sacred
glamour with which she invested every phase of life —
love and marriage amongst the rest — there was in

o o

Camilla's temperament a fine, warm, joyous pulse of
womanhood, which swayed her with a sudden emotion,
and spoke with clear, spontaneous accents when the
promptings of reason were indistinct.

The female angel, as seen among mankind, must, in
order to be perfect, have in her a strong vein of
humanity, and lapse occasionally from the angelic.
Camilla felt this human pulse beat strong and fast.
Once she might have theorised about Philip and criticised
him ; but she was a woman ; and an instinct more
cogent than any theory, clearer than any critical faculty,
now told her how dearly she loved him.

'You were right, indeed, dearest father,' she wrote to
]mr. Ambrose, * and counselled me well. My life's gratitude
is yours for that wise counsel. I am very, very
happy.' — ' And so,' added her husband's hand, * and so is
Phil — a thousand times happier than he ever hoped to
be — a million times happier than he deserves.'

Philip gave the letter back to his wife with its
affectionate postscript.

There,' he said, ' that will gladden the dear old
father's heart. Now let us go out and sit in the
shade, and you shall read to me, Camilla ; we are
both in the mood for it. Here is Julia's pretty speech
in the Two Gentlemen of Verona — you would act it to
perfection.'

And so Camilla read :

* ' The more thou clay's it up, the more it burns ;
The current, that with gentle murmur glides,
Thou know'st, being stopped, impatiently doth rage ;
But, when his fair course is not hindered,
He makes sweet music with the enamell'd stones,
Giving a gentle kiss to every sedge
He overtake in his pilgrimage ;
And so by many winding nooks he strays,
"With willing sport, to the wild ocean.
Then let me go, and hinder not my course :
I'll be as patient as a gentle stream.
And make a pastime of each weary step.
Till the last step has brought me to my love ;
And there I'll rest, as, after much turmoil,
A blessed soul doth in Elysium."

I feel very tired,' said Camilla, as she shut up the
book and leant back, with closed eyes, against the tree
behind her, ' and this is very restful. I believe I am
myself in a sort of Elysium.'

So the golden days floated smoothly away, each with
its own new joy. But Camilla's honeymoon, enchanting
as she felt it to be, was not destined to pass without
that touch of imperfection from which not even the
most perfect chapters of human life are exempt. A
single disagreeable incident — and that almost too unsubstantial
to be reckoned an incident at all — passed
like a cloud across its summer sky and marred the completeness
of its charm in Camilla's recollection. One
afternoon, weary with a long morning's ride, she lay
reading on the sofa. More exhausted than she knew,
she closed her book, and was presently asleep. What
demon of disorder is it that rules the chaos of our sleeping
hours and shapes the fierce chemistry of our dreams,
as De Quince calls it, to absurd, incongruous, shocking
results ? Of what unsuspected materials are they compounded
? From what dark corner of memory do they
spring? Be the cause what it might, Camilla had a
horrid dream, and one that nothing which had consciously
passed in her mind of late could at all explain.
For long she had never thought of Sinclair. The excitement
of her new life, its real happiness, had driven from
her mind alike the misgivings of the voyage and the

event which had given those misgivings their acutest
VOL. IL C

form. In the circle of her present thoughts and wishes
there was no space for him. She wished it to be so ;
she rejoiced that it was so. She had banished him
effectually from among the topics of her daily thought.
She had resolved to forget him, and she had achieved
her resolution. Yet he entered now and sat beside cras
so often on board ship. His presence blotted out all
that had subsequently happened. Her husband, her
marriage, her married life, her married happiness — disappeared
into the limbo of the indistinct — effaced, as it
were, by a more vivid presence. Sinclair sat beside her
once more, and was speaking in low, impassioned terms,
imploring, warning, commanding her. His face was
solemn with the pathos of earnestness. His frame was
shaken with passion ; his voice trembled ; his words
were the same as they had been before, terrifying in
their vehemence — the vehemence of an impassioned
seer, who seeks in vain to warn his hearers against the
doom, revealed to his eye, but hidden from theirs. And
this time Camilla's power of will was gone ; she strove
to speak, but no word would come in obedience to her
effort. Sinclair approached her, stood by her — earnest,
solent, pathetic as ever.

Recall it, for God's sake,' he seemed to say, ' I im-golden

DAYS 19

lore you, while you can. I bid you do it. Be the
responsibility mine. I am certain I am right.'

Still Camilla could neither speak nor move. Sinclair
stretched his hand to take hers. He touched her, and
the spell was broken. Camilla started back with a
scream, and awoke shuddering, wretched, exhausted
with her journey to the land of dreams. Philip came
running in from the next room. He found his wife

o

fevered — agitated — labouring, evidently, inter some
strong excitement. Camilla looked at him, still half in
terror. Never had she seemed so tender, so appealing,
so in need of help. She took his hand fondly.

I have had such a dreadful dream,' she said ; ' bring
your book, dear, and sit by me. I am afraid to be
alone.'

Philip brought his book and read her a story. But
Camilla, as she lay and listened, or seemed to listen,
was haunted by the phantasm of her morning's dream,
and puzzled herself with disagreeable conjectures as to
the cause and meaning of the visionary intruder upon
the sacred isolation of her honeymoon.

SIR THEOPHILUS IN DIFFICULTIES

Shepherds of people have need know the Calendars of Tempests,
which are commonly greatest when things grow to equality ; as natural
tempests are greatest about the equinoctial. '

While thus the course of married love was flowing
pleasantly along with Philip Ambrose and his bride,
Sir Theophilus Prance's political horizon had been
growing menacingly dark. His triumphal chariot's
wheels were driving heavily. Like other objects of
too impulsive devotion, young India had been growing
inconveniently exacting. The glib phrases, which atone
time had delighted audience and speaker alike,
had ceased to charm. Prance had read in Bacon that
the politic and artificial nourishing of hopes ' is a good
antidote against the power of discontentments ; and he
had found the specific to be effectual. He had led his
willing flock from one pleasant pasture of expectancy

to another ; each prospect had been more delightful
than the last. All had gone well, so long as the sheep
were contented with the faint enjoyments of anticipation
; while they would browse where they were told,
and shepherd and flock were agreed as to the still
waters by which they should wander and the heights
which it was desirable for them to scale. But then
had come a day when roseate prospects would no longer
suffice — when the sheep showed a temper, a taste, and
a decided intention of their own, and sorely perturbed
their kind shepherd by a certain waywardness of conduct
for which he was entirely unprepared.

Pledges, like curses, come home to roost, and Sir
Theophilus's pledges had been numerous and strong,
and refused to get on their perch and sit quiet, as a
well-regulated domestic fowl should. On the contrary,
they asserted their claims with an insistance which
could neither be circumvented nor ignored. Sir Theophilus
felt that the world was not going as it should —
as it would have gone, had he had the disposing of it.
Several pretty theories had dissolved in the rude, garish
light of practical experience. Several panaceas had
proved ineffectual : Expectations had been dashed ;
Hope itself had ceased to be hopeful; common disappointments

had ended in mutual recriminations.
The free press, whose praises Prance had been wont
to proclaim so confidently as an inexhaustible source
of national beatitude, had revealed itself in an unexpected
light as the uncompromising assailant of its
panegyrist whenever it chanced to be his fate — as it
now not unfrequently was — to cross the good pleasure
of the writer. Upon no topic had Sir Theophilus
dilated with greater enthusiasm than on the value of
public meetings as a means of political education, and
as, at once, demonstrating and forming the popular will.
It was in this robust school, he had often told admiring
audiences, that Englishmen had learnt the lessons of
freedom and the arts by which freedom is maintained.
Acting on these suggestive observations, the youth of
the province — the noisy, the restless, the possessors of
a grievance or the champions of a cause — organised
assemblies, at which nothing was wanting in numbers,
rhetoric, or unanimity that could make a public meeting
all that an enthusiast would wish to have it. Much was
said on these occasions that Sir Theophilus excessively
disapproved; but the first hint of disapproval would,
he well knew, be the signal for still more outspoken
expressions. In former days the fact of his disapproval

would have been a cogent influence to guide opinion in
an opposite direction ; now it merely lent zest to the
enjoyment incidental to a startling theory or a paradoxical
conclusion. The wise, sober, influential men
of other days, whose example and advice were always
available on the side of order, had lost their hold upon
a generation which had broken with the past and its
traditions of moderation and good sense. Sir Theophilus
still floated on a wave of popularity; but he
knew the frailty of the power which held him there,
and the fickleness of the allies on whose help he was
driven to depend. For men of weight, he was disagreeably
conscious — Native and European alike — were
holding aloof from him. He had welcomed isolation,
when isolation meant a monopoly of Fortune's shining
hour — when he stood alone because none shared the
compliments, the caresses, the laudatory extravagances
which graced him as the popular favourite. Solitude
was less agreeable when there might be graver business
on hand than the exchange of mutual congratulations —
less agreeable, and, possibly, less safe. So poor Sir
Theophilus, it may be believed, was not without his
anxieties ; nor were they likely to be lessened by the
consideration that ambition's journey, like the path

across some Alpine slope, leads, not unfrequently, to
a crisis, at which advance is perilous and retreat impossible.


Camilla soon learnt that the India of real life is
something very different from that figured in Prance's
speeches or the magazine articles, in which his visitors
recorded their impressions — something very different,
and which appealed far more effectually to her imagination,
interest, and conscience. She found herself, for
the first time, in a community where every one was
hard at work — work which formed part, however insignificant,
of a beneficent enterprise. The nobility of the
task seemed to throw a sort of moral grandeur over
lives that might otherwise have been commonplace and
even ignoble in their dulness. Unconscious as many
of them were of the process, it infused an earnestness, a
reality, a purposeful steadiness of aim, into the character
of the men who took part in it. Mr. Chichele she
found — despite his air of polished calm — to be tremendously
interested in his work. Mr. Montemm, with
whom Camilla speedily formed a hearty friendship, hid
under his rough exterior and biting phrases a serious
concern for the wellbeing of the silent millions around
him, and a real kindliness to those of them who crossed

his path, which — greatly as he would have resented
the description — amounted to very substantial philanthropy.


'You are fond of books,' he said to her one day.
If you would like to visit a curious library — the most
interesting, I suspect, that you have ever been in —
come with me tomorrow, and see what a native gentleman
can be and can do. He is a great friend of mine.
I have a prophet's chamber in his house, where he lets
me take refuge from the world.'

Camilla was delighted at the proposal. Next day
accordingly they went ; and, leaving the trim Coerulean
roads and bustling, smoky bazaars behind them, drove
away out into the silent country, and across long
stretches of level rice-fields and multitudinous, clustering
villages, and came at last to where, by the shores
of a historical river, a grand old devotee of learning
has accumulated the precious outcome of a lifetime of
skilful, diligent and generous research. Their venerable
host — standing like a patriarch with sons and grandsons
around him — blind with age, and his steps guided by
a filial hand, met them at the door, and welcomed them
with a courtesy which realised all that Camilla had
ever fancied of Oriental grace. He responded promptly

CHAP.

to Camilla's enthusiasm — told how, year by year, and
decade by decade, the work of accretion had gone
steadily on; and summoned from the strongholds, where
they lay immured, many a curious volume and precious
Buddhist manuscript, which his zeal, as a collector, had
gathered from the treasure-rooms of Benares or Casimir,
or the monasteries of far Tibet. The old bibliophile
knew all their histories, and laid a loving hand —
Camilla fancied — on each, as he described it. Presently
he deputed to a son the duty of guiding his
visitors through the long galleries, where thousands of
volumes, on whose pages — so the contrariety of Fate
had willed — his eye might never rest, stood ready for
the first comer — his gift, a noble one surely, to his
country. Camilla roamed from room to room with
ever-increasing pleasure, and insisted at last on exploring
the prophet's chamber, to which Montemm, who was
an indefatigable student, was accustomed to retire on
occasions of any more than usually important literary
business.

Here,' he said, ' I am within reach of every book
that I can possibly want, and out of the reach of
troublesome people who may possibly want me. My
good host is himself enough of a bookworm to know

the value of a safe retreat ; and this is a pleasant one,
to boot, is it not ? '

By this time they stood on the terrace, and watched
the great river below them, ablaze now with the sudden
glories of the setting sun. The moon was high overhead,
and, even while they sat and watched, the day
had died, and a flood of moonlight as it fell on the
wide expanse of water, and country craft floating swiftly
down the tide, and the darkening shore beyond, lit up
all with a softer glory.

I like this scene, and this place,' Camilla said, with
vehemence, * better than anything I have seen in India.
It is all delightful — the people and the place. I must
come myself, if I may, some day, and make my " retreat
" here. It would do one real good after too long
a spell of common life. Even now it refreshes me, and
the thought of it will always be refreshing. For my
part, I could die happy, if I had created such a little
oasis as this, for the benefit of weary pilgrims in times
to come.'

As they travelled home in the moonlight, under
long half-illuminated arcades of over-branching trees,
Montemm discoursed to his companion, much to her
edification, on the scene which they had been witnessing,

and the significance of it, and many other like
scenes, which, he told her, lie open in India to the
understanding eye.

The worst of it is he said, * that most of us are too
hard at work, and have neither leisure nor imagination,
nor perhaps a prompt sympathy for feelings other than
our own. The problem in India is as strange as ever
nation was called upon to solve. The very newest,
strongest wine is being put into some of the oldest
bottles in the world. Her connection with us has
poured the fierce light of modern European civilisation —
if civilisation is the proper word for it — on an old-world
regime — and venerable shrine, and crumbling tower,
and sacred rite, and family custom — all are tottering
alike. To tell the young Hindu that we are not attacking
his religion is true in one sense, but delusive in
another. We create an atmosphere in which it cannot
breathe. We asphyxia it with science. We cannot
help ourselves. We have no choice between that and
leaving gross ignorance supreme with its train of monstrosities.
The rising generation is caught into the
full swirl of the tide — the chaos of thrones and altars —
which we call modern Europe. They are impressible,
and are, naturally, very much impressed. A crisis is

all too likely — the dangerous crisis of transition. What
we have to do is to let the patient face it under as
favourable conditions as may be — with order, goodwill,
reverence, self-restraint — all other good things of
the sort working in his favour, to keep the political
atmosphere pure and fresh ; above all, to prevent the
generation of political gases — Sir Theophilus and others
—which can end only in an explosion. Do you remember
that grim toast in the Vision of Sin ? —

* ' Drink to lofty hopes that cool —
Visions of a perfect State :
Drink we, last, the public fool,
Frantic love and frantic hate. — "

Dashed hopes and vain dreams of ideal perfection — the
unreal love that sours quickly into hate — imaginary
cures for equally imaginary grievances — all these, Mrs.
Ambrose, form dangerous political material; and the
public fool, who is always ready to turn them to the
best account, is one of the most influential personages
in the world. He has ruined some great states and
dismembered others ; he endangers all. Let us hope
that he may not prove his efficiency upon the British Eaj.'
Camilla had thoroughly enjoyed the expedition and
the talk. It was not often, however, that she could inveigle

any of her companions into so serious a mood,
and she learnt by experience that, when she had more
than one of them at a time upon her hands, the attempt
was desperate. There was a sort of mutual encouragement
in frivolity which, even if it amused her at the
time, Camilla secretly condemned as below the mark.
Montemm and Caro, she was vexed to find, produced an
especially impracticable combination ; each of them,
when alone with her, gave occasional glimpses of more
interesting qualities than they chose to reveal to mankind
at large ; but together they were mere steel and
flint, and produced nothing but sparks. It was currently
believed in Cerulean circles that, when these two got
together and encouraged each other in daring flights of
speculation, they ' made hay,' so to speak, of many of
the generally received opinions of society in a manner
which — like a dynamite explosion — made one shudder
to think of even at a distance. Mrs. Eashleigh, despite
Montemm's serviceable wisdom at her hospital committee
and Caro's devotion in writing its reports, was beset by
an awful misgiving that these two conspirators would
blow the world to pieces if ever their views should chance
to pass beyond the stage of theory. To Sir Theophilus,
however, and his disciples they presented a front of

unalloyed conservatism. Many were the witticisms, of
which in their secret conclaves his blunders and misfortunes
were the butt, and fervent the unction with which
Montemm was accustomed to point to the stern, retributive
justice with which popular impatience was now
requiting his unscrupulous bids for popularity.

THE LITTLE RIFT

Love knows it is a greater grief
To bear love's wi^ong than hate's known injury.'

Doubts and fears are as-unwelcome in love as they are
in theology, and as inevitable. The soul that defends
its portals against their inroad becomes, from the very
effort of the combat, only the more intensely conscious
of their presence and their force ; temporary victory is
merely the prelude of completer ultimate defeat. The
besieging force may experience a check, but only to
renew the attack with greater numbers and a heavier
cannonade. Sometimes the enemy feigns abandonment,
and, like the Greeks before Troy, seems to have retired ;
the unwary custodians are no sooner off their guard than
the assault becomes more determined, more terrific than
ever. How fortunate those peaceful natures, whose
serenity is broken by no such unwelcome visitant : how

THE LITTLE Gift 33

fortunate — and how rare. Denounce such fears and
doubts as the judicious moralist may, how many lately-wedded
pairs are happy enough to pass through the
early stages of their new existence without the intimation
that some such perilous intruders are hovering
near. There may be natures so exquisitely attuned,
from the outset, to a complete harmony — whose every
fibre, moral and intellectual, so exactly fits that greater
intimacy reveals no possibility of dissonance in taste
or judgment, — to whom each new unfolding of character
discloses only a fuller revelation of perfect
sympathy of taste. But they are, it must be surmised,
a favoured few. There must be some compensation
for such exceptional good luck. It may be
that such people, as Madame de Steel suggested, have
no immortality. Bliss so superhuman can be enjoyed
but once.

To the majority of mankind the earlier months of
married life are, it may be supposed, marked by the
discovery of some hidden incongruities, uncongenialities,
by disappointments, possibly even — as the glamour of
love's rosy morning sobers into the commonplace illumination
of day — some disillusions.

Camilla, at any rate, had not been many months

VOL. II. D

married before she was forced to admit that some
phases of her husband's character were unquestionably
unheroic. As the course of daily life ran on, some
serious divergence of taste and feeling would, from time
to time, force itself into notice. One of these had been
as to Philip's debts, about which Camilla, despite her
husband's reticence, gradually came to know, and which
she was quite unable to take as airily as he did. The
idea of being in debt, as a predicament which could
actually beset oneself, was one which Camilla found it
difficult to realise. Wealth, more than sufficient for
the sober splendours of her uncle's house, comfortably
panoplied by prudent settlements against misfortune ora
chance lapse into extravagance, and capable of being
replenished, on emergency, from various recondite but
inexhaustible sources of supply — had been one of the
incidents of Camilla's youth which she had sometimes
felt oppressively dull. Nothing short of the repudiation
of the National Debt could have disturbed the financial
equilibrium at the Vines. Sir Marmaduke, in the
wildest flights of his somewhat narrow imagination, had
never dreamed of such a disturbance as coming within
the area of human possibilities. When he informed his
sisters, as he occasionally used at Christmas time, that

he was dreadfully poor, the announcement was understood
to mean nothing more than that his share of the
bank's earnings had been a fraction less substantial
than usual, or that the home farm, on which it was Sir
Marmaduke's hobby to waste the edge of his balance on
expensive essays in amateur farming, was costing him
this year a few hundred pounds more than last. He
was never in debt ; and, never having been tempted in
that direction, was accustomed to speak with grave
severity of people who were. Camilla had frequently
heard him lay down the proposition with all the
emphasis due to a financial discovery, that the simple
specific for keeping out of debt was to live resolutely
well within one's income and leave a wide margin for
accident. Upon nations, classes, or individuals, who
did not practise this wholesome rule, he poured out the
vials of a righteous wrath ; Camilla had been early impressed
with the folly and sinfulness of living on other
people's money, and trusting to tomorrow to make good
the extravagance of to-day. Her allowance had been
ample. The nearest approach to a money trouble that
she or her aunts ever accomplished, was the adjustment
of rival claims on their charity, which expeditions to
the neighbouring cottages brought to light. Philip's

hazy, muddled accounts and unsettled bills filled her
with shame and discomfort, which her husband quite
failed to appreciate. All young fellows, he explained
with airy indifference, run a little into debt during their
first few years of India. Now that he was married, it
was different, of course ; they were economising tremendously,
and it would all be right.

Camilla was far from being reassured. She saw
clearly that Philip did not in the least know how he
stood, and had not the courage to look. It was so easy
to let things slide. To his wife it was insufferable, and
her feelings and his on the subject sometimes came
into open collision in a way which especially provoked
him. He had been searching everywhere for a horse
for her, and had at last found one which he considered
perfection. One of Philip's soldier friends had lent his
first charger to Camilla for a month, while he went
on leave, and now wanted to sell him. Camilla had
been delighted with him — as well she might be — for
'Marquess' was a fine Australian thoroughbred, with
strong indications of his Arab sire, an angelic temper,
and the fine manners engendered by the discipline
of a regimental riding school and his military experiences
of the parade ground. Philip had never

seen his wife in higher spirits or more radiant than
on her return from her first gallop on her new possession.


There is all the difference between pretty good and
very good,' she cried, as she stroked Marquess's tapering
nose and fine open nostril approvingly — ' and you are a
perfect darling.'

Since then Camilla and the Marquess had become
increasingly affectionate — an affection stimulated on
Camilla's part by carrots, lumps of sugar, and other
votive offerings, and testified on his by a welcoming
whinny at his mistress's approach. Now, however,
Camilla quite declined her husband's gift, and was
resolute that Marquess should go back to his owner.
Philip protested in vain.

We shall never get such a chance again,' he pleaded ;
you like the horse — he is dirt cheap — it would be an
economy to buy him. You will be ill, Camilla, if you
don't ride. Please consent.'

No, thank you, Philip,' his wife had said, ' I can
ride one of the ponies ; I like a pony, and I hate being
in debt.'

I hope you will agree, dear,' Philip said ; ' I wish
particularly to give him to you.'

I would much rather not have it,' answered Camilla ;
please do not press me ; I should feel it dishonest.'

Philip flushed red, and had an angry word trembling
on his lips. But Camilla's sweet, serious look disarmed
him. She was evidently speaking from conviction, and
such a woman's convictions must be right. She spoke
with an earnest decisiveness, which, Philip felt, meant
something more than a mere matter of taste. It was in
vain to urge the point any farther, and Marquess went
back to the barracks. This was an aspect of indebtedness
on which Philip had never reckoned; and
it was, he felt bitterly, a particularly disagreeable one.

Another source of disagreement had been Philip's
habit of playing at whist for somewhat high stakes,
and the consequent addition to his income. There was
a Club whist-account, which was sent round every
month to its members, with the total result of the
month's whist. To some members this represented
pretty often a formidable minus quantity ; but in
Ambrose's case the paper came invariably accompanied
by sundry cheques, which tangibly represented the
superiority of his play to that of his companions. These
adventitious additions to his income were very welcome
to poor Ambrose, who was always in straits as to money,

THE LITTLE RIFT 39

with an unascertained burthen of outstanding debts, and
a balance at his banker's, as often as not on the wrong
side of the account. When money is a necessity, its
absence makes itself felt with distressing distinctness,
however naturally indifferent a man may be to its possession.
Philip resented his imperiousness, as he
resented every disagreeable sensation, as one of the
degrading details of life, which had to be ignored. He
would have liked to live in a world in which such
sordid considerations had no place ; but, the world being
what it was, he caught at the first chance of escape with
an avidity too ardent to be discriminating or compunctious.
These chance supplies gave an immediate relief;
they were fairly earned, and the effort of earning them
was one which Philip felt to be within the limits of the
acliievable. There was something pleasurable, he felt,
in such success. He had devoted some trouble to
mastering the theory of scientific whist, and a great
many afternoons and evenings to acquiring perfect
familiarity with its practice ; and he now reaped the
reward. Was it his fault if a glance at the cards, as
they fell, told him a hundred things which the gross
vision of observers, less acute or less instructed than
himself, failed to perceive ? Was there not a sort of

moral fitness in the dispensation that stupid, old under
who played an utterly obsolete game, or brainless
lads, who were too idle to read their Cavendish, who
barely knew their leads, and played on in defiance of
every rule, and in serene unconsciousness of signals
clear as daylight, should lose their money, when it was
their fate to be confronted with an accomplished
antagonist ? At any rate Ambrose pocketed the proceeds
of his victories with a great deal of satisfaction,
and frequently swelled the amount by a judicious bet.
To his wife these additions to their income, when she
came to understand them, wore a very different aspect.
She had brought from her home an old-fashioned prejudice
against playing for money at all; but playing
for money, when the play invariably had one result,
seemed to her sensitive conscience a sort of degradation,
which hardly differed from that of card-sharpers and
pick-pockets. How could it be right for a man of
honour to live by his wits on the unskilfulness or bad
luck of his neighbours ? How could a gentleman endure
to touch the proceeds of his friends' mistakes or misfortunes
? There was something to be said for playing
for money in order to enhance the excitement of the
game, if people considered excitement necessary to its

THE LITTLE Gift 41

enjoyment. But to treat the money as the end in view,
even as an end in view, seemed to Camilla a base perversion
of the objects for which gentlemen frequented
each other's society. She had read of a saying of Mr.
Wilberforce in his young days that winning at play was
even more odious than losing, and that was her own
sentiment on the point. Philip's glee over his winnings
filled her with a sense of humiliation.

At last silence became no longer possible — the
smouldering fire broke out into flame. Camilla had
never before distinctly objected to anything that her
husband did. She felt her heart beating now, and knew
that she turned pale as she spoke.

Philip,' she said, ' have you no scruples about all
this money ? '

Scruples V said her husband, in a tone of great surprise,
'no, why should I? Scruples? what about?'

'About winning other people's money, who don't
happen to be as good players as yourself. I cannot
fancy liking it.'

'Cannot you?' said Philip, more provoked than
Camilla had ever yet seen him. ' It is quite simple. They
would win mine if only they knew how — it is aU fair
play, you know.'

Of course,' said Camilla, ' except the essential unfairness
of a fight between strength and weakness. It
is like the duels one reads about where one man is a
better shot than the other.'

They need not play unless they please,' Philip said,
very indignant at the implied disparagement of his proceedings
; ' and, if they choose to play, they take their
chance. If they cannot afford to lose, they ought not
to play.'

Some of them cannot afford to lose, and ought not
to play, as we know,' said Camilla. ' If they are weak
and foolish enough to do so, why need you be an
accomplice ?'

How am I an accomplice ?' said Philip. ' I don't
want them to play, and I could not stop their playing
if I tried.'

jN"o,' said Camilla, ' and I could not stop your playing
if I tried ; all the same I do not like it. Perhaps
I am quite wrong, but one cannot help one's dislikes,
can one V

Camilla sat at the table, her hand playing with one
of the obnoxious cheques. It was an exquisite hand,
delicately chiselled, nervous, sensitive ; it touched
things with a fastidious, half - shrinking touch, as if

as Philip had often told her laughingly — scarcely
anything in life was quite good enough to touch. She
now pushed the bit of paper from her with an unconscious
gesture of refined scorn, most of which, Philip
felt a disagreeable consciousness, was really intended
for himself. His wife, he began to know, thought some
things about him despicable. She was really pushing
him from the sanctuary of her devotion.

As the months went by, and the excitement of her
new life died away, Camilla found herself not in the
best of spirits. She was very homesick. The parting
from her English home had cost her more than she had
expected. Her uncle and aunts had been very tender
to her, as the time for her departure approached, and
had felt it, she knew, a real misfortune to themselves.
Aunt Augusta had on several occasions quite broken
down while the preparations for India were on hand —
had clasped Camilla in a tender, tearful embrace, and in
vain summoned all her gentle heroism to conceal the
pang which the prospect of the separation cost her.
Camilla longed for another of those tender kisses — for
another taste of that loving companionship. She had
made light of it once, in all the insolent light-heartiness
of youth. She regretted it now, in her new world

of strangers, with remorse and self-reproach. Her
married life was giving her less happiness than she had
hoped. She had been reduced more than once to consoling
herself with the familiar medicament of unhappy
lovers, the theory that the first years of married life are
the least enjoyable. But it was a depressing remedy
even to acknowledge that her happiness was incomplete.
Her husband was affectionate, caressing, with words
and acts of devotion, always ready at her service ; but,
somehow, he had not dominated her character as she
had hoped that he would, and felt that a husband ought.
She was more than ever without a guide ; she trod with
an anxious timorous step in the strange path in which
her lot was cast. She often felt terribly alone. On the
whole, Camilla had been disappointed, and, in someways,
was not the better for her disappointment. Her
bright, sweet, noble dreams of life had been rudely dispelled.
Her husband's careless irreverent hand had
shattered some delightful ideals which had lighted w'p
all her youth with a sort of sacred glory, and which she
had prized as amongst her dearest mental possessions.
She could think of them now only with a gloomy bitterness
of regret— as of some priceless shattered treasure :
they belonged to another world — an Eden before the

fall — which was hers no more. The fine tidings that
people said about the world and human destiny, and —
worst illusion of all — marriage, how much too fine they
were for actual life. How could they ever have been
realities to her ? And yet in them for years she had
lived and moved and had her being — a being nobler,
sweeter, holier than any now within her reach. So
Camilla, it may be believed, was far from happy. She
had gathered her rose, and its fragrance was not as
charming as her imagination had depicted it. It had,
too, some thorns which, every now and then, pierced
her with a sudden pang that made her blood run cold.
Such shocks, coming when she least expected destroyed
all sense of peace. She had discovered, thus early, that
life is made up, to a large extent, of disillusions.

As one thing after another showed her husband ina
humiliating light, she felt an icy something growing
at her heart. Were her first forebodings right, was her
instinctive fear just ? The idea was too dreadful to be
allowed to come into existence. She shut her eyes toit
and turned away. She saw it no more, but she well
knew that it was there — the dreadful conviction that
her idol was no true divinity. Philip, she could not
refuse to see, had an element of slightness. He was

the slave of moods ; he yielded at the first compulsion ;
he was systematically self-indulgent, incapable of sustained
effort or determined resistance. For one thing,
Camilla had not been long in discovering that, if she
was mistress of his heart — the supreme object of his
adoration — her rights were shared with various subordinate
deities. The main sacrifices were hers, indeed ;
but little streams of incense were often floating away in
other directions. Her husband had a tender and capacious
heart, and when he found himself in the society
of a pleasant woman, abandoned himself to pleasing and
being pleased with a completeness which Camilla felt
to be disrespectful — disloyal to herself. It hurt her,
and she was too proud to show her suffering, and suffering
endured in silence sinks deep. Philip seemed
quite unconscious of disloyalty, and described each new
enthusiasm to her with a frankness which convinced
his wife that it would be a hopeless task to make him
understand her feelings about it. 'They are all interesting,
all charming,' she said to him one day with
a slightly contemptuous good-nature ; ' the curious
thing is that there are so many of them.' There were
other discoveries, however, which tended more seriously
to disenchantment. One of these was that her main

romance about Philip was, unfortunately, not borne outby
the real facts of the case.

She had once in a confidential moment told Mrs.
Brandon the story of her engagement, — of Philip's
sudden affection for her — of his five years' devotion
and faithful allegiance. Philip had never, it is true,
vouched for this in so many words ; but it had always
been taken for granted between them. Camilla herself
had never wavered ; and the belief that Pliilip had been
equally constant was very precious to her. Fidelity of
that kind might well be set in the balance against many
apparent symptoms of fickleness or levity. And now
that agreeable illusion was destroyed. Mrs. Brandon
had listened to her story with an air of wondering
amusement which politeness did not enable her to conceal.
There was something in the background which
spoilt the story or made it absurd. Presently Camilla
discovered what the something was. Her husband had
passed through a long series of flirtations. This was
all that Mrs. Brandon would tell her; and this she
could, with a contemptuous forgiveness, have condoned.
But there was something more. Miss Raleigh, to
whom she had, at first sight, taken an immense fancy,
had received her advances towards friendship with an

embarrassment which Camilla could not understand.
What is Miss Eashleigh's story ?' she had asked her
husband. * Her story ? ' Philip said with some embarrassment
: ' has she a story ? ' ' She is beautiful and
romantic, and so probably has one.' Camilla looked at
him with a fearless, honest, searching glance which
Philip always felt to be painfully scrutinising. 'She
was a friend of mine he added. 'A great friend?'
'Yes,' Philip had said, 'a great friend. You are not
going to quarrel with me, Camilla, for every pretty
woman whom I admired in my bachelor days ? Your
rights had not begun then, you know.' ' No,' Camilla
said, mentally taking down her husband from the
pedestal on which her fancy had placed him for adoration
; ' my rights had not begun. I had forgotten. Let
bygones be bygones.'

'My dear,' Mrs. Brandon had said, when Camilla
asked her about it, ' I really know nothing, except that
the greatest flirts make the best husbands, and that
men proverbially return to their first loves. Be that
your consolation.'

Camilla, however, felt anything but consoled, and began,
unknown to herself, to cherish a little spot in her
heart where resentment and contempt were not unknown.

LADY MIRANDA

This is such a creature,
"Would she begin a sect, might quench the zeal
Of all professors else, make proselytes
Of whom she but bid follow. '

Whatever were his other shortcomings, Philip managed
to live well up to his reputation for brilliancy and success.
His abilities and agreeableness were carrying
him well to the front. Before their first year in India
had expired, Mr. Chichele had selected him as one of his
secretaries. The post was one of much honour and glory,
and of higher emolument, and it involved the attractive
duty of accompanying Chichele to the mountain home,
from which, during' the long; Coerulean summer, he
guided the fortunes of his little kingdom. Here Chichele
found his existence supportable, when he could surround
himself with a small atmosphere of congenial society :
and this year Fortune had been especially kind to him.

VOL. IL E

For one thing, he had the Ambrose, who were established
in a hill-cottage not half a furlong away, and, of
necessity, enjoyed the privilege of almost forming part
of his own household. Mr. Chichele, whose good fortune
it was to know what was good, had speedily recognised
that his new secretary's wife was something very good
indeed. He had, too, a houseful of pleasant guests from
England. The most notable of these had an official
justification. Mr. Brownlow, the head partner in the
firm of Brownlow, Mattock and Co., the eminent Railway
Contractors, had come, at the Government's special
request, to ascertain for himself the possibility of a
system of light railways, which Chichele was convinced
would be the making of the province. Mr. Brownlow
was Chichele's old friend. They had been at Christ
Church together ; together they made their first appearance
in London drawing-rooms ; together they had become
Members of Parliament, and their intimacy had
deepened in their first common essays in public life.
Then their courses had diverged. Brownlow had been
caught into the maelstrom of a colossal business ; his
thoughts and time were occupied by the inquiries and
calculations incidental to railway enterprises on a huge
scale. He was tremendously busy, and tremendously

rich, — and business and riches alike made his life one of
rough activity. His lines were cast among active,
shrewd, business men, who differed by an entire hemisphere
in thought and culture from the little, polished,
half-bookish, half-pleasure-seeking coterie of his Christ
Church days. Various undertakings in different parts
of the world had given him a cosmopolitan experience :
lie had visited California for one railway project : he
lead lived for a year or two in Egypt while carrying out
another : he had been the guest of a Cornelian Prince
in arranging a third. The results of his enterprises had
embodied themselves in agreeable manifestations of substantial
wealth. He had a mansion in Queen's Gate, a
moor in Sutherland, a villa at San Nemo, and a steam -
yacht, in which Chichele had spent many a pleasant
holiday. He had, too, — nor was this important addition
wanting on the present occasion — a very charming
wife.

Lady Miranda would have been a valuable acquisition
to any society in which good spirits, good
nature, and good looks were valued at their proper
worth. She was a great talker, and was never seen to
more advantage than in the full flow of animated conversation.
The daughter of a Liberal peer, she had

worked out for herself, in a recklessly ardent fashion, the
logical consequences of the liberal doctrines which
formed the political atmosphere of her home. Her
insight was quickened, and lier belief intensified by a
ready, eager sensibility to the suffering and injustice
she everywhere saw around her. In such moments she
felt herself a revolutionist, and it was only because her
husband assured her that, in this sense, he was a revolutionist
too, that any practicable concordat had been
established between them. Her only complaint against
him was, that he was sometimes in the habit of displaying
levity and cynicism on subjects as to which she saw
clearly, and felt intensely ; and that, on the whole, he
did not take her as seriously as she took herself. It
tried Miranda sometimes, when she was becoming particularly
eloquent and felt particularly in earnest, that
her husband should go into fits of laughter, take her to
his arms in a sudden fit of delighted fondness and
declare her the most terrible woman in existence. Such
behaviour was almost degrading. It was some consolation
that Mr. Brownlow atoned for these occasional
shortcomings by letting her spend as much money as
she liked on a long list of projects for the regeneration
of mankind, in which Lady Miranda took a personal

interest and entertained a firm belief. She at one time
had serious misgivings as to the lawless of her own
expenditure, and had felt a hankering after socialistic
communism. Here, however, her husband had stood
firm, and had succeeded in convincing her, by the rules
of political economy, that the world would not be
regenerated by socialistic contrivances of artificial
equality, and that the best interests of commerce and
so of mankind, were promoted by the free employment
of wealth, in its ordinary courses, by those
who happened to possess it. Miranda, accordingly,
much to her relief, discovered that an ardent sympathy
with distressed humanity, and a resolute determination
to alleviate it, were not inconsistent with the ownership
of a great number of lovely dresses, and with a generally
wild expenditure on bonnets, gloves, lace, and other
feminine paraphernalia, which she herself would have
been inclined to condemn as profligately profuse, until
reinforced by her husband's comforting assurance that
it was all right, and the best way in which a portion of
her allowance could be spent. The consequence was,
that Lady Miranda was as well dressed as Mr. Worth
could make her, or as any young lady of the day could
wish to be ; and that as she had no bad eye for artistic

LIBRARY

IIIUIb<l-n».

effect, the general impression which she conveyed to the
human vision was one of an extremely agreeable kind.
She thirsted for information, guidance, and help, and
she found a surprisingly large number of men ready
with any one of the three in any quantity she wished.

Yet Miranda's philosophy was more than idle talk
or self-indulgent theory. It bore a rich crop of energetic
kindness toward any form of suffering which came
within her range. There were poor people in wretched,
grimy London homes, to whom she had made her way
with an unsuspected revelation of sympathy, help, and
encouragement, and who — as Miranda listened to their
troubles with tender, beaming eyes and thoughtful
suggestions of help — learnt for the first time the
meaning of the touch of nature that makes the whole
world kin. It was in no fashionable freak that Miranda
would go off, day after day, for long afternoons,
to homes where her accustomed visit was, she well
knew, awaited with all an invalid's anxiety, by some
poor creature, slowly fading to her end, or by some
fever-wasted child, weary of its long captivity. She
had a little * Home,' where a few convalescents, translated
from the grimy crowd of London alleys, were
wooed back to health and life amid flowers and sweet

country sights and sounds and the pure breezes of the
Surrey Hills. They came for a few days or weeks, —
poor waifs and strays from the great sea of misery outside.
Miranda's kind heart ached to see them go away
again, often she knew too well to what sort of homes
and life. Few started, we may believe, on that rough
journey without some substantial help from that kind
hand. All took with them the precious memory of an
experienced kindness. Many a poor wizened child, —
old already with the grim experience of pauper life, —
carried away to other scenes, — to squalid, comfortless
lodging, the filthy rag-beclouded alley, — the dirty, angry
mother, — the tipsy father whose heavy hand or boot it
was well to elude, — the public-house, with its blasts of
infamy surging through the half-opened door, — carried
back to these dreary scenes a sort of celestial, dreamlike
remembrance of the sweet, beautiful lady, who had
come to sit by his bedside, ready with sympathy and
love, irradiating all about her with her tenderness, courage
and hope. So it was that when Lady Miranda
talked about the troubles of the world, she used no idle
phrase, but spoke, out of the fulness of her heart, of
things into which she had a practical insight, and about
which she felt with passionate acuteness.

Chichele knew Lady Miranda only through their
common friends. He felt it a serious responsibility to
receive as his guest a young lady who was at once
a politician, a philanthropist, and the fashion. His responsibilities
would have weighed on him more heavily
but that he let a large portion fall on Camilla's shoulders.
He was satisfied that the two would be great friends ;
satisfied too, that, however wide might be Lady Miranda's
field of choice, she could nowhere have found a
rarer nature than Camilla's. Increased familiarity had
only enhanced the respect and admiration with which
she had, from the first, inspired him. He was more
than ever impressed by her refinement, her sweet, grave
dignity, her thoughtfulness on things worth thinking
about, her clear, keen sense, perhaps her occasional bursts
of satire. ' She is delightful,' he told Lady Miranda.
One of the few things in life I am really proud of, is
that I believe I have at last earned the right to call her
my friend.'

MIRANDA CONFRONTS THE BUREAUCRACY

I have a pattern on my nail,
And I will carve the world fresh after it. '

Lady Miranda lost no time in ascertaining for herself
the justice of Mr. Chichele's eulogium. She had been,
in truth, in need of a confidante — in how great need she
had not realised till she found, almost in her first
moments of intercourse with Mrs. Ambrose, how sensible
a relief it was to have a kindred woman's soul with which
to commune. She had been living for weeks past among
men ; and the female spirit needs, it may be believed, for
its complete comfort and wellbeing, some ministration
from one of its own more sympathetic sex. Anyhow,
when the two ladies found themselves comfortably
established in the bay-window of Mrs. Ambrose's ,
Miranda's spirits experienced an immediate
expansion ; and both of them discovered that they had a

hundred things to say to one another, for which, for sometime
past, no proper listener had been forthcoming.

Miranda had been at first more impressed than
altogether pleased by Mr. Chichele. She could see that
he was cultured, thoughtful, and on the whole, deserving
to be liked. But his attitude towards her had not
been satisfactory. She was feeling extremely interested
in her life, and especially this Indian chapter of it.
She wanted to be businesslike, serious, practical; but
Chichele treated her rather as an ornamental appendage
to the man of business than as having, conceivably,
any real business of her own. It never occurred to
him, she could see, to regard her as a working member
of the party. Her society, it soon became apparent, was
to him an agreeable relaxation from long mornings
spent with her husband and the engineers and secretaries
over blue books, maps, surveys, and estimates.
Chichele had, in truth, come in for rather more than
he bargained for when he committed himself to the
championship of a project of light mountain railways
in Cerulean. An enterprising chief-engineer had satisfied
him, in a lucid memorandum, that the lines which were
to scale the Coerulean hillsides at several points would
pay at least five per cent. A discriminating critic at the

India Office had set himseK to demonstrate that they
would certainly fall short of paying three. There had
been despatches and counter-despatches and resolutions
and memoranda. There was a tremendous disputation as
to the proper gauge. The critic at the India Office proved
troublesome and pertinacious ; Chichele had become
bored, and his faith in his chief-engineer waxed faint ;
his zeal for the development of the Cerulean tea-plantations
died down. More than once he had been
tempted to wish the whole project at Jericho. Why,
whispered Indolence, take a deal of worry about a
scheme which was certain to be troublesome and might
be disastrous, and which nobody of any importance
seemed anxious to see realised ? Mr. Brownlow, however,
with a fine, vigorous, businesslike habit, kept
Chichele's flagging energies up to the mark, and would
not hear of surrender. Very likely, he explained, the
people at the India Office are right. It was that fellow
Gibson, the under-secretary, picking holes as usual :
those permanent secretaries are the very mischief.
But the line might be taken by an easier gradient.
There was a gap in the Cerulean Mountains of which,
unaccountably, no advantage had been taken. How,
the deuce, had it been overlooked ? Then the bridges.

CHAP.

as designed, were a great deal stronger than they need
be, and the estimates for sleepers were absurdly extravagant.



We'll have them from Norway, you know,' he said,
enthusiastically.

'AH right,' said Chichele, by this time growing
dreadfully tired, ' have them from Norway.'

Or,' said Brownlow, getting fresher as he went on,
why not try pot-sleepers ? '

Very well,' said Chichele ; ' I have no objection to
try pot-sleepers.'

'But they won't do for the steep gradients, you
know,' continued his persecutor.

The deuce they won't,' responded his victim,
spasmodically attempting to follow the vibrations of
Brownlow's thoughts. ' What are we to have for the
steep gradients, then ? '

Then the chief-engineer would come forward with a
new alternative and the secretary with a fresh objection,
and Chichele would ruefully think what a fool he had
been not to leave well alone, and the Coerulean light
railway project in the limbo of unattempted possibilities.
All this sort of thing involved long mornings of
hard work ; and Chichele used to come out to lunch

with his forehead all in wrinkles, his hair tumbled
about, and looking the picture of fatigue and despair.
It was, no doubt, very refreshing to him at such times
to find Lady Miranda in the drawing-room, looking
fresh and radiant and charming, and ready to talk and
be talked to about other matters than pot-sleepers and
gradients. So Chichele indulged his own mood intreating
her as an agreeable child, or, worse still, — as she
fancied, — a pretty objet che luxe, in which his millionaire
friend could afford to indulge, and of which he, for the
time being, was to get part of the benefit. This was
really unendurable. She resented it with a secret
indignation. It checked all real confidence. She was
longing to confide to him her literary projects, as to
which several clever men — real authors in England —
had given her advice and help. Only two nights before
they left London the catholic-minded editor of a
fashionable magazine, imprisoned with a mob of other
pleasure-seeking captives on a crowded staircase, had
heard about the Brownlows' intended tour, and had
immediately pressed Lady Miranda to give his readers
the benefit of her first impressions of the East.

But,' Lady Miranda had said, with a sweet air of
diffidence that would have melted the sternest editor's

heart, ' I have never written a magazine-article in my
life, and I have not the slightest idea how I should set
about it. I very much doubt if I could do it if I
tried.'

'And I,' the editor had answered gallantly, 'am
perfectly certain that you would do it, as you do
everything else, Lady Miranda, to perfection ; so now
you must not disappoint me.'

Miranda had cherished this compliment, and the
delightful idea of possibly becoming an authoress had
grown upon her till she had ceased to regard it as unattainable.
Gradually she had come to contemplate an
even grander flight — a book of travels which, if not as
ambitious as Lady Brasses's famous yachting adventures,
might yet convey some of the thoughts and feelings
which were seething in her own mind, to mankind at
large. Her husband, when she confided the project to
him, had treated it as a joke — a capital joke, which, like
many of his wife's fancies, would cost him a good deal
of money, and give him much more than the money's
worth of amusement. Miranda dared not, at this stage,
encounter his unsympathetic merriment by further disclosures.
None the less she needed guidance and help.
She would have liked to have made a confidant

of Chichele; but just as the moment for confidence
seemed to be arriving, his calm, gray eye would light up
with a look of suppressed mirth, which suggested the
dreadful possibility that she might be making a goose
of herself.

Another ground of disappointment to Miranda had
been, that she was finding everything less uncivilised,
characteristic, and picturesque than she had hoped that
India would prove to be. Her surroundings were agreeable
and luxurious ; but agreeable luxury was not
exactly what Lady Miranda had hoped to encounter in
the East. She had looked forward to something decidedly
unconventional. Now the utmost unconventionality
that Chichele could achieve for her was a picnic on the
top of a tame mountain, in a fine tent, furnished with a
smart array of sofas and armchairs, and thronged by a
little army of redcoats attendants, who differed from
London footmen only in being black and wearing
turbans. After all, one might, as far as anything exciting
or unusual was involved, just as well be lunch
at Richmond. Everything was beautifully done,
Lady Miranda acknowledged ; but it was not India ; it
was not worth leaving home and coming seven thousand
miles to see — it was not business, she informed her

husband in a serious way, which sent him into one of
his provoking fits of laughter.

No, Miranda,' he said, ' it is not business ; it is
amusement of the choicest and most pronounced order,
and it would be all spoilt without you. Chichele, as a
man of taste, naturally finds you charming, and has
already commenced a flirtation. You are a perfect
adept at that particular form of communion between
two sympathising souls. You will get on delightfully
together ; he will give you floods of information about
India and Indian statecraft. In return you will open
your eyes at him in the charming way you do when
you are really interested, and he will be well repaid.'

Mocker ! ' Miranda had said. ' He is as bad as the
rest of you, I suppose : all men are frivolous at heart ; it
is women who are serious, if we could only get a chance.'

Well,' said Brownlow, ' all I mean is that Chichele
is naturally delighted to have a smart yomig lady devoting
herself to amusing him.'

Pray do not call me smart,' said Miranda, ' it is a
word I detest.'

It cannot be helped,' said her husband. ' You are
extremely smart, my dear Miranda ; it is one of your innumerable
strong points.'

I suppose next said Miranda, who by this time
was half-inclined to lose her temper, ' you will accuse
me of being a professional beauty.'

No said Brownlow/that profession is out of fashion,
happily ; but I accuse you, and my heart convicts
you, of being the most charming woman in the world,
and I condemn you to a kiss

All men are hopelessly frivolous,' cried Miranda, as
the sentence was being carried out, ' and you, George,
as bad as the rest of them

Before many days, however, Lady Miranda got the
chance for which she was sighing; for Chichele, an adept
in the art of agreeableness, especially where a woman
was concerned, was not long in discovering the direction
in which his guest's ambition pointed, and in making
up his mind that the most acceptable form of politeness
to Lady Miranda would be to take her excessively
in earnest. He listened with grave interest to her
account of the literary projects of which her brain was
full. There lay on her writing-table, at this momenta
precious, beautifully-bound volume, locked with a
gold padlock from the profane eye. Its name had
been already suggested by a clever young Oxonian who
wrote for the Times, and Lady Miranda had grown

VOL. 11. F

quite fond of it in anticipation. To her mind's eye the
title,

a Stubs in Black anti OTjjite,

BY

Lady M. B.

was delightfully effective. She had intended at first to
put her name in full, but against this her husband
had protested. ' Black, white, and Brownlow,' he had
cried, with irreverent laughter. ' That would never do,
Miranda;' and Miranda's ingenuity had discovered no
other way of surmounting the difficulty but the employment
of initials. She consoled herself with the reflection
that her friends would have no difficulty in distinguishing
her personality, and would soon publish the
interesting secret to mankind at large. Her volume,
even in its present embryonic stage, was a welcome
relief to many pent-up feelings which clamoured for
utterance. Lady Miranda had great sympathy for the
masses everywhere, and the masses of India especially
fired her philanthropy. She pictured them to herself,
patient, inscrutable, the slaves of an old-world superstition
and a modern bureaucracy. She had been with
her father and her husband to public meetings in England,

and had trembled with excitement at the denunciations
poured out on the selfishness, meanness, and
rapacity of the ruling and wealthy classes. When Mr.
Bright described the government of England as a
gigantic system of outdoor relief for the aristocracy,
she had thought of all her own uncles, cousins, and
friends, who were recipients of that relief, and had
almost sighed for a revolution.

My dear Miranda,' her husband had replied to one
of her outbursts, ' you are perfectly prepared to make a
holocaust of all your relations, and stand alone in a
family desert of your own manufacture. Your zeal is
absolutely terrifying.'

Naturally, when Miranda found herself face to face
with the greatest bureaucracy in existence, she was
deeply impressed with the situation. Already her
precious diary had received several outpourings of her
overburthened soul — not tamed and fashioned, as Miranda
felt that they must be before they met the cruel critic's
eye, but fresh and wild as the thoughts rushed from
their fountain-head. 'I have been a week in India,'
the latest entry ran, ' and I already feel certain that I
shall find this country extremely interesting. Its very
name fills me with a sort of delightful thrill — so old, so

vast, SO oppressed. All these millions of poor people,
and all without the barest rights of humanity. A ,
as cruel and stupid as such things always
are. What a field for the philanthropist and the
reformer ! My taste for revolution has received a fearful
stimulus. George, who differs from me in almost
everything, agrees, at least in this, that here almost
everything remains to be done. I almost tremble with
excitement at the idea, that here I am, face to face with
a great military despotism : and that it is a despotism
everything around forbids us for a moment to forget.
The obsequiousness of the servants and the crowds of
servile creatures who stand waiting one's beck and call,
contented and submissive, speak of slavery or something
next door to it. When I drove with Mr. Chichele
this evening, his state was really regal. Can it be right
for any man in this age to live like a prince in the
Arabian Nights, heralded by outriders, surrounded by
silent ministrants who anticipate his every whim, hurry
at a signal on his behests, fan him while he eats, and
stand behind him at dinner with a fan ready to brush
away the too presumptuous fly that threatens to desecrate
his imperial person ! To me it seems simply
dreadful.'

Lady Miranda had not screwed up her courage
to submit these confidential utterances even to her
husband's eye. She began to feel more and more at
her ease in indoctrinating Chichele with esoteric dews
to much the same effect. None the less it was consoling
to find in Camilla a companion of a kindred
spirit, whose tastes were completely sympathetic with
her own on other and less sublime topics than the wrongs
of India or the regeneration of mankind.

Lady Miranda's great advantage in acquiring information
was that she looked so charming when she was
receiving it. Hence it was that, in addition to Mr.

o »

Chichele, she found herself surrounded by many zealous
instructors. Mr. Montemm volunteered a general survey
of the machinery of the administration : an ambitious
under-secretary initiated her into the mysteries of the
Permanent Settlement. General Eashlei^jh abandoned
his rubber in order to explain to her the strategy of
the Afghan frontier question, and showed her on the
map the exact places where the first battles with the
Russians would be fought. Her beautiful violet eyes
opened wider and wider, and her lips — Cupid's very
home — parted with such a delightful expression of
wonder and curiosity that each new preceptor, as he

CHAP. XXIII

was added to the ever increasing list, admitted to himself
that it was well worth while to talk seriously to
her ; and to talk seriously to her was easy enough,
for almost everything interested Lady Miranda, and a
great many things not only interested but touched her.

THE WIDENING BREACH

"When love begins to sicken and decay,
It useth an enforced ceremony :
There are no tricks in plain and simple faith, '

An acute observer of society has recorded the solemn
fact, attested by a hundred calamitous alliances, that it
takes longer to learn to live on rational terms with a
woman than to fancy that one adores her. Philip had
succeeded admirably in the task of adoration. To walk
about the cedar avenue at the Vines in a half-frenzy of
hope, anxiety, or disappointment ; to let his imagination
run riot in embellishing his mistress with a thousand
delightful attributes ; to lie on his back in the grass with
half-closed eyes ; to recall her tones and let her dear
image fashion itself to his mental vision in a sort of inward
rapture ; to assure her, when at last she consented
to listen, that she was the dearest, sweetest, noblest

of beings, and Phil's one hope and joy to live and die
her slave — how easy it had been, how pleasant, and,
alas, how brief ! Why is not existence made up of such
enchanting emotional vicissitudes? Philip had now
realised his ideal in human flesh and blood, and the
question was no longer of idolising one's mistress, but of
living comfortably with one's wife. The problem was
how to please and satisfy her without too extravagant a
consumption of nerve and tissue, or too complete a
renunciation of one's own personal pleasures and satisfactions.
Being the husband of the most perfect woman
in the world involves, Philip began early to discover, a
considerable moral strain. Camilla's lofty ideas about
life were difficult to live up to. She took everything
with an earnestness which her husband felt to be
incompatible with any real comfort in existence. Life,
if it is not to be martyrdom, is a succession of compromises,
— compromises between what is ideally right
and what is practically actionable by mortals — between
duty and pleasure — between the aspirations of the spirit
and the weakness of the flesh, — between things that
ought, theoretically, to be said, suffered, or done, on the
one hand, and a man's natural inclination towards comfort,
ease, and a little excusable self-indulgence, on the

other. Now it was one aspect of Camilla's perfection
that she was essentially uncompromising. Her clear
insight and natural candour dispelled the comfortable,
soft chiaroscuro in which things lose their exact outline,
and the difference between things — between right and
wrong, for instance, true and false, honest and dishonest
becomes conveniently indistinct. Many parts of Phil
Ambrose's career needed, he was well aware, the benefit
of this protecting obscurity, and were susceptible, incertain
lights, of an unflattering construction. He had
a disagreeable consciousness that his wife's clear judgment
could not be imposed upon, nor her conscience beguiled
into deflecting by the thousandth part of a hair's-breadth
from the strictest possible standard of what was
true, honourable, or just. What was life worth to her
but to try to ennoble it — to raise its aims — to triumph
over its pettinesses — to perform its obligations with a
chivalrous generosity? But how to reconcile such a
theory of existence with the practical exigencies of a
man whose means fall short of his requirements, whose
affairs have been getting themselves for years into a
more hopeless muddle, and who can make both ends
meet only by shifts and contrivances, which the plea of
necessity might excuse, but which a too nice scrupulosity

would certainly condemn. And then married life, with
its ineffable happiness, brought also some serious restrictions.
Philip had been accustomed, for instance, to
drop into the Club, on his way from of&ce, for an hour
or two's serious whist with a select company of advanced
connoisseurs. The fact that his wife was awaiting him,
weary with the monotony of a long solitary day, was a
troublesome interference with this bachelor pleasure.
Is a man, because he adores his wife, to lie, like a tamed
Hercules, with his head in Omphale's lap, and deny
himself the ordinary pleasures of his sex ? Might not
both purposes be served if Camilla met him an hour
later at the Band, by which time Phil's rubber could be
conveniently achieved ? And if, sometimes, the chances
of the game made Phil a little late, were not accidents
like this just the sort of delinquencies which the
familiarity of married life would excuse, the liberties
which husbands, who adored their wives, could venture
to take ? Once or twice on such occasions he had found
Camilla sitting by herself with a look of sadness, which
her kind and cheerful greeting could not conceal. Why
was it, Philip wondered, that she could not, as other
wives did, join one of the many throngs of talkers, who
were beguiling the interval till their lord's arrival with

a brisk flow of station gossip? And then there were
houses where Philip had been wont to go — Mrs.
Paragon's, for instance, — and where he had, in old days,
passed many a pleasant hour and received many a kindness,
and where he was still as welcome as ever. Alas
he to renounce them now ? And if he stayed chatting
on, beguiled by Mrs. Paragon's bright flow of talk, ready
repartee, and cheery manners, was this a matter of which
the wife, for whose sake he had curtailed so many
pleasures, had any reason to complain as a grievance,
even in thought ? Camilla, Philip knew well enough,
would never say a word, however real the grievance ;
but had she a right to feel it one ? There were other
possibilities besides that of Camilla's feeling dull when
he occasionally deserted her, which gave Philip uneasiness.
One of these was the possibility of being seen
through, and morally brought to book in a manner too
businesslike to be convenient. Camilla had a vigorous
common sense and the insight that belongs to perfect
integrity of mind. Her judgment played no tricks with
itself, nor could any trick be easily played with it. Her
code of honour and duty was as clear written as it was
severe. She was a difficult person— not to deceive,
indeed,— that would have been more than Philip could

have admitted to himself among possible necessities —
but to leave with a partial knowledge of the facts, or
with an incorrect idea of their bearing on the case. She
had, too, — and this was no agreeable discovery, — a fine
touch of scorn for things which might be more reasonably
condoned as excusable infirmities than lashed with
satire or pointed at with the unfeeling finger of contempt.
There were things that people did, and not bad
people either, with which Camilla could never be
induced to hold fellowship ; as well expect her to
plunge her beautiful hands into a cauldron of pitch.
But how would it be if Philip were ever driven to admit
such things as among the alternatives open to himself,
to be accepted, perforce, in lieu of something still more
disagreeable ? Camilla, in such a case, could neither be
hoodwinked nor conciliated. She would recognise it —
she would feel its full significance. It would be a stain,
and the stain would hurt her like a wound. Would she
indeed, could she — forgive the hand that inflicted it ?
One such troublesome affair had, indeed, already
passed the stage of possibility, and began to assert itself,
with disagreeable emphasis, in Ambrose's thoughts, as a
fact which it would have been pleasant, if possible, to
cancel from the record of one's doings. The Mudda-

poUium Mine project had long figured in Philip's day-dreams
as an agreeable panacea for his financial
maladies. It was quite certain that there was stuff in
the scheme to make a dozen fortunes, if only it could
be utilised with discretion, and if the fitting opportunity
would but present itself The opportunity had arrived
in the form of an Australian gentleman, whom Mr.
Palaveram Chetty one morning brought with him to
Ambrose's study. This gentleman had great mining
experience, and was thoroughly versed in the arts by
which embryonic companies are fostered into actual
existence. It did not occur to Ambrose — or if the
thought occurred, the Australian's magnificent manner at
once rebuked it as ill-judged — that it was remarkable that
this gentleman's experience should have inclined him
to quit its proper scene in Australia and to embark on
the unknown seas of Coerulean speculation. ISTor did
the Chetty think it necessary to mention that his
visitor, despite his magnificent way of talking about
money, had found it convenient to resort to his weU-
filed money-chests for a supply of ready-cash. The
Australian, however, whose fresh complexion and
splendid physique could hardly belong to any but an
honest character, was a man of business, and came at

once to the point. Australia, as a field of lucrative
enterprise, was, lie said, used up. Cerulean had a virgin
soil. He was satisfied that its resources were unequalled,
and on this he speedily put Ambrose's mind at ease by
specimens which he had just collected on the spot, the
purport of which discovery he set forth in glowing
terms, as revealing a golden harvest to whoever should
be lucky enough to reap it. Philip's heart began to
beat as the Australian described the fortunes which had
been made in ventures not half so promising as this.
A stream of wealth flowing in upon one spontaneously, in
amounts practically immeasurable, — whose blood is not
stirred by the idea ? and to a man with profuse tastes,
large necessities, narrow means, and considerable embarrassments,
what a great relief it suggests, what
numberless vistas of pleasure open upon the delighted
imagination, fired with the golden vision ! While
Ambrose's fancies were at boiling-point, the Chetty and
his friend revealed their scheme. The strictest secrecy
must be observed ; a concession must be obtained from
the Rajah to whom the land belonged ; then a company
must be formed, and then Ambrose's fortune would be
made. How much were the concession aries to charge
the public for their invaluable bargain? It was for

Ambrose to say. The company was to be brought out
in London and India simultaneously. The Australian
gentleman was to arrange the details. Ambrose's name,
for obvious reasons, was never to appear; but he was
to lend his aid to promote the concession and to expedite
any transactions in which the infant company came
into contact with the Government; and for these
services was to be entitled to a handsome share of the
promotion money when subscribed. One other small
service Ambrose's visitors begged him to perform as his
contribution to the scheme. 'We want you,' Mr.
Palaveram said, with an ingratiating smile, 'to write
the Prospectus. Your Highness' style is incomparable,
and will do justice to the theme. We are poor drudges,
and would spoil Paradise itself in attempting to describe
it. Here are all the facts ; they need only your Highness'
master-touch to convince the very unbelievers. Write
it for us, and the success of the company is a certainty.'
So Philip's ready pen had described the coming glories
of the MuddapoUium Mine — the unequivocal evidence
of the precious ore, the abundant water-power, the
unfailing supply of labour, the virgin forests, where fuel
could be had for the taking, the neighbouring railway
which the Government was already designing, and

which would waft the treasures of Muddapollium to the
coast. Philip's researches into currency though not
profound, enabled him to refer to the injuries which the
scarcity of gold had brought upon mankind, and the
blessings which the discovery of a new supply had, on
various occasions, conferred on the world's commerce,
depressed by an appreciating coinage. One of these
fortunate discoveries seemed now, the Prospectus
majestically observed, once more to be likely to revive
the flagging industries of Europe and to knock off the
fetters in which trade had been so long coerced. The
Muddapollium gold-fields were destined to repeat for
mankind the inestimable boon of Australia and California.
So the Prospectus got written, the company
floated off, and Ambrose felt that wealth was almost
within his grasp. The reflection was highly agreeable ;
the only drawback was the necessity for secrecy, and
the consciousness that Camilla, if she knew of the
wealth, would strongly disapprove of the means by
which it came.

A HILLSIDE Encounter
Tante ne animus crelestibus erse ? '

Philip's life, tliougli stirred by a pleasurable excitement
and bright in its outer aspects, was not without
its secret misgivings. ISTor were these relieved by the
behaviour of his friends. The Eashleighs had, obviously,
determined that it was most consistent with their dignity
to ignore all that had passed between Philip and their
daughter. They received him with a cordiality as
ostentatious as he speedily found it to be unreal. Xo
true friendship, it was clear, could any longer exist.
The General shirked him, and repelled his advances
with haughty politeness. Mrs. Piashleigh, with whom
he had found it so easy to chatter in old days, had not a
word to say to him, nor he to her. They hicic, it was

clear enough, and though not choosing to show it, con-vol.
II. G

denned and despised him. Miss Easlileigh was kinder,
more forgiving, more considerate ; but was not her
kindness a little contemptuous ? She betrayed not the
slightest symptom of regret or annoyance, and met him
with her accustomed cordiality ; but Philip speedily
became alive to the fact that he was being kept at a
distance, and that no renewal of intimacy was to be
allowed. Chichele, too, who, for some time, had not
been very nice to Philip, was now less nice than ever.
The most courteous of mankind, and with an old-fashioned
chivalry of manner towards women, he treated
Camilla with a sort of homage. Nothing was too good
for her ; on the other hand, he gave Philip to understand
by sundry unmistakable hints that many things
were too good for him, and amongst others, his wife.
Ambrose began to feel himself, where from temperament
he most disliked to be, out in the cold.

Perhaps it was this sense of being out in the cold
that quickened into energetic life a feeling which, for
months past, had been lurking in Philip's thoughts, ina
fugitive, shamefaced, apologetic fashion, but which
now began to assert itself with courageous obtrusiveness.
It concealed itself at first, as bad thoughts are apt to do,
under the sjarb of a virtue, if indeed, with some natures,

it be a virtue to repent. Philip, when he found Miss
Eashleigh not at all inclined to reproach him, had begun,
with great vehemence, to reproach himself. He had
treated her shamefully, he knew — and she knew ; and
the consciousness that he had acted badly to her was
stimulated by horrid self-questionings as to whether he
had acted most wisely for himself, — most advantageously
for that all-important aggregate of enjoyment,
which it was Ambrose's supreme concern in life to make
as large as possible and to protect from every risk of
curtailment. Miss Eashleigh, it was certain, was a
most beautiful creature, bright, frank, natural, prompt
to forget and forgive, amusing, and easy to amuse.
Ambrose remembered having felt gayer, more unrestrained,
more completely at his ease with her than he
was ever able now to feel with his wife. Her standard
of taste and morals was not so severe nor so inflexible
as Camilla's. She was readier for a joke and less exacting
as to its quality. She took life less gravely. There
was a punctiliousness about Camilla's mind which
was sometimes burthensome, — which narrowed the area
within which mirth could play at ease and the point of
vision from which things could be looked at. Florence
Eashleigh fell greatly short of Camilla in knowledge

and power of thought ; but, then, are knowledge and
power of thought the attributes which conduce most
to perfection in a wife, — to the ease, comfort, and
happiness of a husband ? Camilla's very perfection of
character was capable, in some moods, of being felt as a
defect. ' She is all fault,' the poet has written, ' who
hath no fault at all.' A man does not want to be continually
confronted with unattainable virtues, — to be
reminded, by contrast with his nearest companion, of
his own shortcomings and infirmities. Miss Eashleigh,
on the other hand, made no pretensions to faultlessness :
did not this render her charms all the more endearing
to frail humanity ? She ignored the past with a completeness
for which Philip felt intensely grateful. Such
a faculty of oblivion was a delightful characteristic in a
world in which many things have to be ignored. Her
beauty was more striking, more impressive, more seductive,
more loveable than ever : and she was as generous
as beautiful. Other people's behaviour to Philip
conveyed a subtle sensation of reproach ; but Miss
Eashleigh's good-nature was spontaneous, unstudied,
suggestive of no arrive pense. She was devoted
to Camilla, and evidently intended to be friends with
Philip. How could any man of sensibility fail to be

touched by such au intention ? Philip was profoundly
touched and began to feel a passionate desire to set
himself completely right with his old love, — to tell her
how much of the old love was still alive. And, day by day,
he began to be more and more conscious how very much
alive it was. Before long the opportunity arrived ; and
Philip, whose opportunities in such matters were never
wasted, spoke out from the fulness of his soul. The
chances of a hunting morning, on the mountain side, left
them, for a few minutes, close to one another and alone.

I want to thank you,' Philip said, ' for all your kindness
and your generosity to my wife and to me. I had
no claim to your help ; quite the reverse ; but you have
helped, more than any one, to reconcile her to our
Indian exile.'

I have to thank you,' said Florence, ' for the greatest
friendship I have ever made, and the one that I prize
most in the world. Indeed, I never knew what friendship
was till Mrs. Ambrose came to teach me. You
may well be happy.'

I should be very happy,' said Philip, ' if I knew
that you had really forgiven me.'

Then,' said Miss Eashleigh, with a cheerful sincerity,
you may be more than happy, for I do not consider that

I have anything to forgive. You did exactly what I told
you. You see how wise it was to determine to be free.'

Was it ? ' said Philip. ' You were saved from the
risk of a very bad husband at any rate, for I believe I
make a wretched one.'

You will make a wretched one,' said Miss Eashleigh,
still quite declining to take the conversation seriously,
if you go about confessing your shortcomings to other
ladies, particularly ladies whom you adore or have
adored. Not that I believe that there are any shortcomings.
I am confident that you are perfection.'

'Oh no, I am not,' said Philip, vexed at his companion's
banter ; ' nor do you, or any one else think me
so ; but a mass of imperfections, which are always
bringing me to grief.'

Bringing you to grief ? ' said Florence, scanning the
hillside for some one to rescue her from her companion's
inconvenient seriousness ; ' you are, by universal
consent, the most fortunate of mankind, and your
last stroke of good fortune has been the best of all.
Ah! there are the hounds coming out of the Schola.
Let us gallop on.'

Stop,' said Philip ; ' do not laugh at me — you would
not if you knew. I have come to grief this time for

good and all. I have behaved to yon, I know, like a
weak fool as I was. I could not help it. I am weak
as water and I cannot make myself strong by wishing ;
but I have deep feelings and strong ; and the strongest
and deepest is for you ; and I am the most wretched
fellow alive. Now what do you think of me ? '

I will tell you what I think said Florence, turning
to her companion, her face bloodless, and her eyes
flashing with excitement, — ' I think you a traitor. You
were a traitor to me. Xow you are a traitor — a ten
times worse traitor — to another. I will speak to you
openly, Mr. Ambrose, as your friend — as your wife's
friend. She is a sweet, noble nature, the highest I have
ever known ; too good for me ; too good for you, or for
almost any man : you have had the supreme good fortune
to get her : deserve your good fortune ; worship
her as you ought ; devote yourself, heart and soul, to
being what her husband ought to be ; breathe the pure
air of her thoughts ; let her high aims and pure tastes
be yours ; and you have indeed happiness — unusual
happiness — unattainable to most, — before you. Fail todo
this — behave as you have just behaved to me — play
with each passing mood as it comes — yield to each
liking which besets you — say the sort of things that

you have said to me — say them to other women who do
not love and revere your wife as I do — and you will
come to grief indeed and dishonour too ! '

She was gone, and Philip was left alone to bear his
rebuff as best he might. It was a cruel blow. He was
in a tender mood and in dire need of a little petting.
He would have liked Miss Eashleigh to forgive and pet
him, and allow him the privileges of confidential repentance
and absolution. He pitied himself immensely,
and wanted Miss Eashleigh to join in the pity and to
look at his case from the point of view from which it
was pitiable and not disgraceful. Why had she been
so inexorable, so harsh ? She had turned and smitten
him, like an angel in a holy wrath — stern, unforgiving,
unpitying, contemptuous. She had never forgiven
him, then, after all ; her kindness had been the mere
simulated goodwill that it was necessary to show to
Camilla's husband, however undeserving, for fear of
hurting her. Why was existence, — which was intended,
surely, to be a smooth and bright affair, — replete with
such embarrassing complications, such mortifying discoveries,
such humiliating results? Why should the
accidents of life place a girl like Florence Eashleigh,
with all her beauty, interest, and charm, so hopelessly

beyond one's reach? Why, when one sorely needs a
sympathising and indulgent consoler, should fate present
one with a cold, stern, unflinching monitress?
Why, when one is in a penitential mood, should one
not be absolved ?

Florence by this time had disappeared over the
mountain ridge. She was gone, and gone in anger, and
the last bright spot on Phil's horizon had grown dark
and cold.

LADIES IN COUNCIL

All round my room my silent servants wait —
My friends in every season, bright and dim ;

Angels and seraphim
Come down and murmur to me, sweet and low,
And spirits of the sky all come and go. '

One of the results, perhaps — with the exception of his
debts — the most solid result of Philip's Oxford career,
had been a judiciously assorted collection of extremely
well-bound books. There are volumes, the publishers'
catalogues tell us, which no gentleman's library should be
without ; and Philip, in accepting the dictum in a generous
spirit, had added to it the expensive corollary that a
good book deserves the finest coat which the binder's art
can give it. The idea of parting with these treasures, at
the time when his father parted with Eed Hazard, had
suggested itself to Philip's mind among other possible
expedients, but had been promptly dismissed as unpractical

and irrationally romantic. Second-hand books,
he reminded himself, always fetch a wretched price ;
and then, was he not just starting for India, where a
good library would be amongst the few possible alleviations
of existence ? The consequence was that Philip
Ambrose's library accompanied him to Cerulean, and his
house was now well stocked with this delightful order of
furniture. The beautiful volumes rose high on the library
walls, overflowed into the drawing-room, established
themselves in force on three sides of the dining-room,
lined the staircase recesses, and effected a permanent
foothold on the landing-place. Camilla had foimd their
number, their variety, their splendour, among the chief
attractions of her new home. She had always been an
eager reader, and agreed with her husband in thinking
a pleasant book all the pleasant for exquisite type, fine
paper, and a rechercM binding. ' There are grand books,'
she used to say, ' like grand ladies, that ought to dress
grandly in Russian leather and gilt edges.' Camilla's
taste for good print and smart bindings, however, was
but a foible. Her passion was for reading, and the long
days, while her husband was away at office, gave plenty
of opportunities for indulging it. One morning, dien
Lady Miranda came across for her accustomed after-breakfast

chat, she found her friend deep in the study
of a sombre-coated octavo volume; and, as she bent
over her, resting her hand on Camilla's shoulder, she
read the heading of the page, ere the other had
closed it.

'What grave book is my dear Penserosa so busy
about ? The Republic ! If it is anything republican or
revolutionary I shall probably like it. You shall read
to me while I try to make a sketch of that dear corner
of your garden.'

It is not revolutionary at all,' Camilla said, with a
laugh ; ' it is the purest, oldest conservatism possible—
as old as Plato.'

'Plato !' cried Miranda, 'what an odd book for any
woman to read — to have leisure to read ! I wish I had 1
For my part I never read a word of anything except
parliamentary speeches, the last popular novel, and my
favourite poems. Life is not long enough.'

'Ah, but you see,' said Camilla, 'Coerulean life is
long, and the art of Coerulean housekeeping — so much, at
least, as I can attain to — is extremely short ; so I have
taken to the classics, and I make my husband teach me
Greek in the evenings. Meanwhile I have become an
enthusiastic Platonist. It is all so pure, so serene, so

exquisitely good — the loveliest poetry, surely, that ever
mind conceived. One breathes another atmosphere from
that of common life, like that of the enchanting solitudes
of some solemn mountain height. I always feel
as if one ouQ-ht to come down from it to life aojain, like
Moses from the mountain, with the glory still upon one.
Just listen, now, while I read you this.' And then
Camilla read in grave, impassioned tones :

" From the souls of those who have once gazed on celestial truth
or beauty, the remembrance can never be effaced. Like some divine
inspiration the glories of this other world possess and haunt them ;
and it is because their souls are ever struggling upwards and
fluttering like a bird that longs to soar heavenwards, and because they
are rapt in contemplation and careless of earthly matters, that the
world calls the philosopher, the lover, and the poet mad. For the
earthly copies of justice, or temperance, or any of the higher qualities,
are seen but through a glass dimly, and few are those who can discern
the reality by looking at the shadow. And thus the sight of any
earthly beauty in face or form thrills the genuine lover with unutterable
awe and amazement, because it recalls the memory of the celestial
beauty seen by him once within the sphere of celestial being. The
divine wings of his soul are warmed and glow with desire, and he
lives in a sort of ecstasy and shudders with the ' misgiving of a former
world'"

Is not that beautiful ? ' said Camilla, as she closed the
book and turned to her companion, herself seemingly
infected with something of the ecstasy of which she
was reading. ' Does it not carry one to a height from

which all common things seem mean and coarse ? Does
not one seem

" To have seen white presences upon the hills,
To have heard the voices of the eternal Gods ?" '

Too grand a height for me said Miranda ; * for
my part, the beauties of the world — such enchanting
beauty as we see from your window here — need no such
sublime explanation. Are you philosopher, lover, or
poet, Camilla, that you take so high a flight ? As forme,
you know, I am before all things a woman of the
world and a politician.'

'Ah, but,' said Camilla, bent on the conversion of
her friend, ' it is just about politics that I like Plato
best. Here is one of my favourite passages. Let me
just read it to you, and see if it does not make you in
love with conservatism :

" The', who belong to this small class, have tasted how sweet and
blessed a possession philosophy is, and have also seen and been satisfied
of the madness of the multitude, and known that there is no one whoever
acts honestly in the administration of states, nor any helper, who
will save any one, who maintains the cause of the just. Such a saviour
would be like a man who has fallen among wild beasts, unable to join
in the wickedness of his friends, and would have to throw away his life
before he had done any good to himself or others. And he reflects
upon all this and holds his peace, and does his own business. He is
like one who retires under the shelter of a wall in the storm of dust
and sleet which the driving wind hurries along ; and when he sees the

rest of mankind full of-wickedness, he is content if only he can lead
his own life, and be pure from evil or unrighteousness, and depart in
jDeace and goodwill, with bright hopes."

Well,' said Camilla, as she came to an end, ' what do
you think of it?'

" To be pure from evil, and depart in peace and goodwill,
with bright hopes," ' said her companion; 'that would
be well indeed ! But as for the general idea, I don't
like it. It is the philosophy of a Quietist. I like the
wind and the dust and human beings, bad as they maybe :
not that they are so bad. I know a great many excellent
ones, the poorest some of the best. But as I said, I ama
woman of the world, and worldly. I love politics and
philanthropy, and have a hankering after revolutions.

Well,' said Camilla, ' for my part, I hate wind and
dust cordially, and am ready to betake myself, with
ignominious gratitude, to the kind shelter of the wall.
I admit I am a coward and frightened to death at the
very idea of a revolution.'

'You would not be if you could see the poor as I
have seen them,' said Miranda ; ' the dreadful, sordid
misery — the hopelessness, the degradation, the absence
of everything that makes life worth living, or fit to live.
When one talks of liking revolutions, one means that

anything is better than sitting still, as people do contentedly,
in the midst of all that sort of thing, calling
it the best of all possible worlds and never moving a
little finger to mend it. Those are the kind of people
I should like to revolutionise.'

So far we are all revolutionists,' said Camilla ; ' but
then, will the poor be better for mob-rule, for having
their own blind, ignorant way, and being led about by the
first impostor who knows how to tickle their fancy or
arouse their passions ? They say they are worse off in
New York than London. Now that we have got this
beloved Plato, let me read you one passage more — it
is about the Sophists, who, he says, "act as keepers
to the many-headed monster of a people, understanding
its habits and humouring its caprices, calling what it
fancies good, and what it dislikes bad. . . . And Philosophy
herself," he continues, "is left desolate, and a
crowd of vulgar interlopers leave their proper trade
and rush in, like escaped prisoners into a sanctuary, and
profane the temple of Truth." Now, is not that a good
sketch of your radical politician, racking his brains fora
cry to rouse the mob with, or a " great movement of
popular opinion " to carry his party through the blunders
of a session ? '

'You are a Tory, dear Camilla, of the bluest dye,'
Miranda said, ' and deserve to live under a despot.'

At any rate,' said Camilla, ' I am well content to bea
woman and to live out of the hurly-burly ; under the
protection of the wall, in fact. The best things in life
seem to have been discovered a long while ago, and our
progress only takes us farther and farther away from
them ; the world goes from bad to worse.'

What do you mean by the best things ? ' asked
Miranda, aghast at her companion's pessimism.

*I mean the noblest thoughts,' said Camilla; 'has
any one improved on the Hindoo sages ? read their grand
hymns — their poems — pure, serene, sublime — and see
what men in India were ages ago, and look at what
they are now, and talk to me of progress ? No ; I have
begun to think the world a bad business, too bad to be
enthusiastic about.'

It has its disappointments, of course,' said Miranda.

*Ah!' said her companion, 'that is the keynote of
the whole — Disappointment. It is the end of hope, aspiration,
endeavour ; it rounds the little life of each one,
and the doings of the great world itself. AU the good
things, the bright things, come but to that ; they all
seem to get spoilt — such is the doom of man — by

VOL. II. H

man's own crime and folly. Look at Christianity itself,
breaking like a ray from heaven into that wretched,
cruel, Uas6 suffering Eoman world, and carrying the
idea of heavenly calm, felicity, rapture, to the poor
souls who lay in its abysses. They hoped then, those
happy people, and with good reason clung to their
blessed hope through fire and sword and fiendish
torture — and how has it turned out ? Has it been a
success, or a dreary, dreadful failure ? Cruel, wicked
wretches, debasing it to their own hideous level ; Calvin
with his demon-god, and the infants a span long creeping
on the floor of hell ; Rome with her atheist Popes,
and blood-stained hands and impudent miracle lingering
— and the poor you were talking about ; just
look at what one reads of them in London ; can Pagan
life have been worse ? '

Yes,' said Miranda, ' I believe it was worse, a
hundred times, crueller, fiercer, more animal-like. You
would scarcely call Christianity a failure if you could
be where I have been, and seen how good, how noble,
how refined many poor people are — how patiently they
suffer, how bravely they die. And which is best — your
grand philosophy, too much shocked at everything to be
of any use ? or mine, which is to mend the present and

hope for the future ? How can you be happy with such
a creed V

'lam not happy said Camilla; 'very much the reverse.
I have had my disappointment like the rest of the world ;
or, perhaps, when I spoke of the world, I meant myself.'

'You shall not be disappointed this time,' said
Miranda, ' if you will let me be your friend. I cannot
bear to think of you unhappy.'

I am sure of that,' said Camilla, as she drew her
companion to her with a tender embrace. ' It is horrid
of me to let my melancholy mood cast a shade across
your bright sky. I began by hoping too much, I suppose
; and now I feel grieved that life will not fashion
itself into the sort of thing I longed for. Somehow it
seems in vain to aspire. Do you remember the lines
about St. Peter in Aurora Leigh 1

" After our first girding of the loins
In youth's fine linen and fine broidery,
To run up hill and meet the rising sun,
We are apt to sit tired, patient as a fool,
"While others gird us with the violent bands
Of social figments, feints, and formalism,
Reversing our straight nature, lifting up
Our base needs, keeping down our lofty thoughts,
Head downwards, as the cross-sticks of the world.
Yet He can pluck us from that shameful cross.
God, set our feet low and our foreheads high,
And show us how a man was made to walk. " '

'And how a noble woman was made to walk !' cried
Miranda. ' Sometimes, dear Camilla, when we stumble
the most and the path seems steepest, is it not that weare
on a loftier height than usual, farther from earth
and nearer to the stars ?

" Though now he serve me stumblingly, the hour
Is nigh, when I shall lead him into light." '

That evening Lady Miranda discussed the Ambrose
with her husband. Brownlow had dressed them up in
the rosy light of an ideally prosperous and happy marriage,
and was loud in his praise of the career which
led naturally to such a pleasant form of life. He was
charmed with Camilla, and took her husband on trust
as deserving his good luck. The best of the Indian
service, he observed, is that it makes it possible for
young men and women to marry while they ought,
and enjoy themselves and each other while they are
capable of enjoyment.

Enjoyment ! ' cried Miranda; ' my dear George, you
know nothing about it ; you men can never see. Mrs.
Ambrose is one of the most unhappy women that I
have ever known ; and, if I mistake not, has got a
husband who has broken her heart, or is on the highroad
to break it.'

A LAND OF AFTERNOON

In the afternoon they came unto a land,
In which it seemed always afternoon. '

Despite his imperial surroundings, Chichele proved a
ready proselyte to Lady Miranda's revolutionary creed.
He found, in truth, that talking to her was what he did
best and liked best to do. Brownlow declared that he
surrendered his convictions with disgraceful compliance
in the railway committee, in order to get away and
gossip with her in the drawing-room, or take her for
long rides to all his favourite points of view. Mr.
Chichele, on his part, had a great eye for scenery, and
knew of a dozen lovely vantage-posts from which the
surrounding country could be admired with the best
effect. Lady Miranda found, on hers, that cantering
Mr. Chichele's ponies over the long stretches of smooth
turf, up the long valleys, or across the high Cerulean

table-lands, was an employment exactly congenial to
her tastes. They used to come all of a sudden on the
sweetest little sylvan nooks, from which the wide
prospect, bathed in the rich blue atmosphere of an
Indian afternoon, could be surveyed in coolness and at
ease. The Cerulean woodlands creep in the most
endearing fashion along the valley sides, and afford
a hundred tempting situations to those who love to
worship Nature in her gentlest aspect and at a modest
shrine. At some one of these pleasant halting-places
it would generally happen that a little troop of
Chichele's scarlet folk would be found busy extemporising
a primitive fireplace and an al fresco
five o'clock tea. Hither, by degrees, the scattered
members of the party would assemble to chat for
half an hour in the shade, and to refresh themselves
in the course of the long afternoon's ride. Miranda
naturally fell often to the companionship of their host,
and neither of them felt at all inclined to grumble
at the arrangement. Lady Miranda soon began to
feel at her ease and to become increasingly confidential.


'This is a favourite haunt of mine,' Chichele said
one day, as he threw down the reins on the neck of his

Arab, who stood with upturned head and dilated nostril
enjoying the prospect and breeze apparently as much
as did his master. It was indeed enchanting. They
had reached the brow of a commanding height. Behind
them lay the jungle from which they had just emerged,
ablaze with wild roses, and its cool, shady depths speaking
of infinite refreshment to arid souls. Before them
the mountains fell rapidly towards the plain, a tumbled
sea of palm and bamboo and tangling creepers. Each
ravine and hollow, each bend in the mountains' side,
stood out clear and sharp in the bright crystal air.
Over all, the coming twilight shed a purple haze.
Miranda's face glowed with pleasure.

This is delightful,' she cried. ' Let us rest here and
enjoy it at peace.'

Let us, by all means,' said Chichele, getting off his
horse and going to help Miranda down from hers.
Where in the world could half an hour be spent to
better purpose on such an afternoon as this ? '

Before, however, they had time to establish themselves,
Brownlow came trotting on his cob, with a brisk,
resolute air, and map in hand. He pointed to a distant
headland which he had been reconnoitring.

Look here, Chichele,' he said ; ' we will bring the

line up that opposite hillside, and get to our obligatory
point through that convenient gap.'

This comes of having railway projects,' said Chichele.
Lady Miranda and I were abandoning ourselves to the
picturesque.'

And this comes of marrying eminent contractors,'
said Miranda. 'All one's ideas about mountains are
merged in visions of running trains up and down their
sides.'

And a very good vision too,' said Brownlow, with
good-natured authority. 'A good railway is an improvement
to any mountain. Its curves are always
lovely. It emphasises the wildness of the scene, and
it enables ten times as many people to see it. Now let
us have a cup of tea, and then, Chichele, I shall insist
upon your coming to the headland and judging for yourself.
I am getting quite in love with this line.'

A horrid form of conjugal infidelity!' cried Miranda ;
and meanwhile I am head over ears in love with this
view, and I must positively have a sketch of it before
I move. Mr. Chichele was just going to show
me how to mix my colours so as to catch this heavenly
blue.'

Come, Brownlow,' said Chichele ; ' do for goodness'.

sake sit down here in the shade and behave like a
Christian. You can light your pipe if you please, and
enjoy the reflection that this pretty place where we sit
will very likely in a year or two — thanks to you — bea
noisy railway siding, with porters, ticket-collectors,
personally conducted excursion trains full of Cook's
tourists, and pleasant things of that sort.'

No,' said Miranda; ' I protest against such sacrilege,
even in imagination. Be a little romantic, George, for
once, and inspired by the occasion. Don't you see
Puck and Titania under the ferns there and the
nymphs and fairies dancing down that pretty glen ? '

'Nymphs and fairies, indeed!' said her husband
cheerfully, proceeding to light his pipe ; * but you have
forgotten, Miranda, that you are a politician on the
look-out for new convictions or for proofs of old ones.
You must not be too picturesque.'

A politician ? ' said Chichele, ' then I shall get
Lady Miranda to bring me up to date. My politics
have grown frightfully rusty with my two years of
exile here.'

'She will like nothing so well,' said Brownlow.
Now, Miranda, there is a chance for you. Chichele's
conscience has been fallow for ever so long, and you

CHAP.

can sow what sort of seed you please, and have a crop
just to your own fancy.'

Yes, I should like that Miranda said ; ' politics
are what one really cares about, are they not ? But
what are you, Mr. Chichele ? A Liberal ? '

Well,' said Chichele, ' I was supposed to be one
when I was in the House — a weak-backed one. What
I should be, or what I should be called now, who can
tell ; but, pray, what are you ? '

I ? ' said Miranda, opening her beautiful azure eyes
with a grave look which Chichele thought extremely
pretty ; ' has my husband never told you ? I am a
Revolutionist — a Eed of the most anarchic and implacable
order.'

'I must double my sentries,' said Chichele, 'and
order up a detachment of detectives. You stop short
of dynamite, I hope.'

'Just short of that,' said Miranda, with a dreamy
hesitation, as if parting reluctantly with some favourite
project of annihilation ; ' and in Russia where they insult
and flog beautiful young women, you know '

'We never insult or flog beautiful young women
here,' said Chichele. ' You may feel perfectly safe, but
I am bound to forbid your getting up any revolutions in

my bit of India. I hope you wil excuse me ; but herein
India, you know, we have no politics but to serve
the Queen and keep the country in order.'

So I should have thought,' said Miranda ; ' but
when we were staying with Sir Theophilus Prance the
other day, we were surprised to find that he knew all
about the elections, was thoroughly posted up in the
gossip of his county, had read all the addresses, and, in
fact, seemed to be making a speech to us himself, just
as if we were constituents. Did he not, George ? '

'He did,' said Brownlow, 'and a dull one it was.
One does not come to India to hear stale radicalism
One wants to get at something local.'

Ah,' said Chichele, ' but then Prance is not local ; he
is for the universe. And he is nursing a constituency,
and, I imagine, spends his mornings addressing his
supporters before a looking-glass. He was, no doubt,
delighted to get an audience.'

The Brownlows, having witnessed the performance on
the spot, had shared the disillusion which befalls those
inquisitive natures who everywhere want to go behind
the scenes. They had seen the ropes, the pulleys, the
canvas palaces, the dirty scene-shifters, the pearl-powder
and the rouge. With regard to Sir Theophilus,

they both agreed, as with summer's eve — 'twas the distance
lent enchantment to the view. Chichele did not
even admire him at a distance, and when the Brown-lows
hinted disparagement of their late host, was not
at all inclined to interfere on his behalf.

I say, Brownlow,' he cried, ' do you remember
Bacon's essay on the greatness of kingdoms and estates,
that we used to be so fond of, and the story about
Themistocles ? Themistocles, I must tell you. Lady
Miranda, being asked to oblige the party with a tune,
answered, as we should consider, somewhat sententiously,
that he could not fiddle but could make a small town
into a great city. On which text Bacon preaches an
excellent sermon. Brownlow and I used to know it by
heart in our Oxford days, when we studied politics as a
science. Let me see how my memory serves me. "If,"
says the wise old gentleman, " a true survey be taken
of counsellors and statesmen, there will be found,
though rarely, those who can make a small state great
and yet cannot fiddle. As, on the other hand, there
will be found a great many that can fiddle very
cunningly, but yet are so far from being able to make a
small state great, as their gifts be the other way, to
bring a great and flourishing estate to ruin and decay.

And certainly those degenerate arts and shifts, whereby
many counsellors and governors gain both favour with
their masters and estimation with the vulgar, deserve
no better name than fiddling, being things rather
pleasing for the time and graceful in themselves only,
than tending to the weal and advancement of the State
which they serve." Now,' continued Chichele, 'Sir
Theophilus is always fiddling, always playing popular
tunes, like Paganini, on a single string. I confess, when
this sort of performance takes place in high places, I
begin to think that things look dangerous. I don't like
his tunes or his touch.'

Well,' said Brownlow, tapping out the remains of
his pipe and preparing for a move, 'I don't mind
admitting that I did not much like his fiddling either.
English platform radicalism does not seem proper in
India, — it's like wearing a frock-coat and a tall hat in
the sun, you know. But, seriously now, do you think a
man like Prance can be really dangerous?'

I think him about as dangerous,' said Chichele, ' asa
child running about in a powder magazine with a
lighted candle. He may set nothing on fire ; he may
escape a catastrophe, but no one can say that he will.
Our business in India involves the feat of putting the

very newest, strongest, highly alcoholic of modern
wines into some of the oldest bottles in the world without
their bursting. Surely it can only be done by the gentlest
handling. Prance and his set seem to court an explosion,
and to think it would not signify. We have got two
hundred or three hundred millions of people here upon
our hands, stirred by all sorts of fears, tastes, and prejudices,
of which we know next to nothing, and liable
to impulses as difficult to judge as a sub-oceanic current.
Englishmen, when they talk about India, seem to forget
all this, and fling about their fireworks just as if such a
thing as a mutiny never occurred to their imagination.'

A mutiny ! ' cried Lady Miranda ; ' but that is a
thing of the past.'

I hope so,' said Chichele ; ' but the afternoon
is waning, and Brownlow is becoming impatient ; let us
be moving homeward.'

As they rode back, Chichele informed Lady Miranda
that their party next day would be enlarged. 'My chief-secretary,
Masterly, comes back from leave tomorrow,'
he said. ' He is immensely clever, has read everything
that ever was written, and will be enchanted to
talk to you about India as often as you please.'

Masterly

Your reasons at dinner have been sharp and sententious ; pleasant
without scurrility, witty without affection, audacious without imprudence,
learned-without opinion, and strange without heresy.'

Masterly, at first sight, wore an erratic, artistic, unconventional
look, which suggested rather the idea of a
rising academician than a risen official. He was a very
clever fellow, but had never conquered the mystery of
tying his handkerchief in the conventional bow, or of
getting his clothes to behave like those of the rest of
civilised mankind. His manner was nervous, sudden,
apprehensive, like those of some wild forest creature ;
and, in fact, he was continually apprehensive of dull
people who were in the habit of trying to buttonhole
him, and of pertinacious instigators to official jobbery.
Long training had taught him how to tame this features

to inexpressive quiescence, but nothing could prevent
the tell-tale flashes of his eye, or the twitches of his
nervous lips, that bespoke the presence of a latent
electricity. His forehead was Socratic, and a close inspection
showed that, despite a general air of uncouth force,
Nature had completed him with the most delicate
finishing touches. His lips and chin were chiselled to
an almost feminine refinement. His hair, defiant of the
prim, hard lines which civilisation dictates, fell about
his temples in clusters fine as a woman's. His large,
nervous, well moulded hand, tapered into long, pliant
fingers, typical of dexterous vigour. No one who critically
examined his physique would have found it
difficult to understand how it was that he had won ina
canter every intellectual race for which he had been
entered at school and college. ' He looks delightfully
clever,' Lady Miranda said ; ' and I am certain I shall
be charmed with him.'

I am not at all sure of that,' Chichele replied ; and
when, later in the evening, Chichele brought him to be
introduced, Lady Miranda soon began to share his apprehension.
There was, however, an impressive air of
restless capacity about him which attracted her immensely.
They soon fell to serious talk.

Mr. Chichele has promised that you will tell me all
I want to know about India.'

All I know !' exclaimed Masterly ; ' I am afraid you
would not like that at all. I know too much.'

Oh, but said Lady Miranda, ' I am longing to hear
about it. India, I must tell you, has always been my
dream ; it is so intensely picturesque.'

Ah ! ' said Masterly, with an incisive air, which his
enemies considered his most offensive attribute; 'but
you must get rid of that illusion at once, if you please,
Lady Miranda. India is picturesque, just as the little
towns you see from the Mediterranean are picturesque,
because there is nothing so squalid, so hideous, so
tumble down, so vilely prosaic, that distance will not
lend it a touch of enchantment. India is just the same
well enough to look at through a haze of Burke or
Macaulay's rhetoric, but if you really examine it, it is
one of the dullest, most tedious, unpicturesque affairs you
can conceive. Every Englishman begins to learn about
India from Macaulay's Essays (which, you know, area
tissue of falsehoods), and goes on with Burke's
speeches, which for exaggeration, bombast, mock pomposity,
solemnity, violence, and unfairness are unapproachable.'


VOL. II. I

'Then said Lady Miranda, 'you mean seriously
that I must leave off liking Burke. Don't you like
him?'

'I like him,' said Masterly, 'because he gave vigorous
expression to one of our few national virtues, hatred of
the French character — hating a Frenchman like the
devil, you know, as Nelson put it — which I hope we
all do ; but, as for Burke's speeches about India, why,
the very people at the time could not stand them, and
used to go away to dinner while he went on refining
and inveighing and piling up fine situations. As for
any one liking them now, I always think of Hamlet's
robustious, periwig-pated fellow tearing a passion to
tatters, and fancy I hear the rattle of the tin dagger
with which he performed his mock suicide on the floor
of the House of Commons.'

Well,' said Lady Miranda, ' I have a great deal to
unlearn, I see. All the same, I feel a sneaking fondness
for some of the fine phrases you denounce. There is a
beautiful one my husband was reading me this morning,
about " the cries of India being carried on the wings of
the monsoon'"

'The wings of the monsoon!' said Masterly, waving
his hand with an air of lively scepticism ; ' if Burke had

known what a bother and anxiety the monsoon is to us,
he would not have talked so glibly about it.'

Then,' said Lady Miranda, with an air of resignation,
' are all officials as matter-of-fact as you are ? '

Yes,' said Masterly, ' all the good ones ; you may
find a little poetry and romance in the lower ranks of
the service, but it soon wears off. The first thing they
do with us is to spoil us. I got spoilt quickly, luckily
for me. It was a cruel process. I wrote a lovely style
when I was a boy, — vehement, violent, extravagant,
infectious, in fact quite like Burke ; but it is all gone,
alas ! The great thing is, to write as if you were ordering
a pair of gloves.'

But I write a very vehement, violent, impetuous style
about my gloves, I can assure you,' said Lady Miranda,
if they are not exactly what I like.'

'You know the story about the ambitious young
civilian and the East Indian Director. They were always
signing minutes and committing jobs — not such
jobs as the Secretary of State commits nowadays, but
still pretty bad ones. Well, the ambitious boy, who
had just been jobbed into a mastership, and meant to
make the best of it, asked the old gentleman " What
style the Directors liked ? "

" My dear young friend," said the old gentleman,
can't you fancy him wiping his gold spectacles or
pulling down his bust* waistcoat as he said it—" the style
as we likes is the humdrum." '

Well,' said Lady Miranda, ' the style as I likes is
the humdrum, so there we are agreed ; that is to bethe
style of my book, Mr. Masterly.'

Masterly, whose wide capacities embraced an appreciation
of pretty women, as well as of the other good
things of life, had already begun to think that his companion
was a remarkably intelligent young lady and
well worth enticing into a long conversation. ' But
you don't look in the least humdrum,' he said. ' I am
afraid you could not be it.'

Nor do you,' said Lady Miranda, ' but I am, all the
same ; you see I have had to spoil my style, like you,
to suit the subject. Now go on telling me why Indian
affairs are such a bore.'

They are a bore,' said Masterly, ' because they are
such a frightful muddle : India is like a salle a manger
after a big table dliote ; one is always having to sweep
away the crumbs left by preceding diners ; and I don't
like sweeping away crumbs. One would like a virgin
soil to operate upon — an island in the ^gean or somewhere,

with nothing but groves and fountains and
dryads.'

Miranda felt that this sort of thing would not do at all.

This was the kind of nonsense that men liked to
talk to her, and which she especially resented when
she was wanting to be serious.

'That does not sound at all humdrum,' she said,
and I don't understand you in the least. The older
a country is, the more interesting, surely, it must be.
What can be duller than those virgin soils one hears
about in new colonies — so many hundred thousand
square miles, with no scenery but posts and rails, and
no incidents but steam-ploughs and elevators ? '

Delightful simplicity ! ' cried Masterly ; ' that would
be the country to be Chief secretary in! What an
Arcadian existence ! Here, on the contrary, everything
is complicated into such a frightful entanglement that it
takes a lifetime to understand it — more than a lifetime.
I will give you an instance. Lord Cornwallis was determined
to pass the Permanent Settlement and have done
with it — to clear up the frightful mess which, in one way
or another, had come about between landlord and tenant.
Mr. Shore, the well-informed, humdrum official, implored
him to hold his hand, and assured him he did not know

half enough about it to take any final step. Lord Coin-wallis's
answer showed that he was so heartily sick of
the subject, so despairing of getting at the bottom of it,
that he had made up his mind desperately to have done
with it once for all, couth qid route. Now, we know
to our cost that Mr. Shore was right, and Lord Cornwallis
^^Tong ; and the result of the mistake has been
the deuce and all for the Indian finances, for millions
of tenants and for us poor officials, who have to deal
with it a hundred years later.'

But,' said Lady Miranda, ' you forget that I accept
your doctrine, and have forsworn the picturesque. I
shall not put anything in my book about the monsoon
except that it usually begins in June, and I shall
cut out a beautiful sentence about twenty centuries
looking down on us from the Himalayas. But, Mr.
Masterly, what a sacrifice ! and what a book mine will
be. Who will read it ? Who will publish it, I should
like to know ? I tell you what ; I will call it " The
Seamy Side of India," or something of that sort '

'Or 'the Sighs of a Secretary'" said Masterly;
that has a romantic sound about it, which would be
impressive.'

And now,' said Lady Miranda, who wanted to come

to business, ' about this information which you were to
give me. You have not told me anything except that
India is a bore — that is not a suggestive view, is it?'

Information ! ' cried Masterly, ' I shall be delighted
to give you any amount you like. It is a perfect drug.
When you have finished your book, send it to me, and
I will have the necessary statistics filled in by the
people in my office. Will you have them in tables at
the end, or put in as footnotes as the topics occur ? '

Masterly asked this question with an air of hon fides,
which Lady Miranda felt to be extremely impertinent.

No ! ' she cried, in dismay ; ' that is not at all what
I want. I must have the statistics for myself, and
then when I have marked, learnt, and inwardly digested
them, and formed my views, I shall then work them all
in myself, you know.'

'But surely that method won't do,' said her companion.
' I will show it in a minute. Here we are in
August ; you will stay here a month '

Six weeks,' said Lady Miranda.

Ah,' said Masterly, ' another fortnight ! that makes
a difference ; but even out of these six weeks you will
devote a large portion to amusement, to riding with Mr.
Chichele and discussing pretty views ; a large portion to

sight-seeing, pure and simple ; a large portion to correspondence,
a large portion to reading the English papers.
What is the residue of your six weeks, available for making
up your mind as to two hundred and fifty millions
of human beings about whom you know as much as
about the wrong side of the moon? No, no ; my plan
is the right one, you may depend upon it. Put down
your impressions, your feelings, your conclusions — the
first thing that everybody tells you ; they are sure to be
fresh, picturesque, and quite as true as any one else's.
Then I will get you out the statistics to match.'

No, thank you,' said Lady Miranda in indignation.
• If I cannot have my information before I write my
book, I will not have it at all.'

Surely,' said Masterly, ' that is unreasonable, and
shows, if I may say so, a wrong view of the use and
meaning of figures. What are statistics ? Groups of
figures so arranged as to demonstrate some theory or
other which you wish to establish. You shake them up,
you know, like a kaleidoscope, till you get them into the
particular shape you want. How can I give you statistics
till I know what you want them for ? I always
know what ]mr. Chichele wants his for. You must
really give me some clue.'

Masterly looked at Lady miranda with a pointblank,
resolute, self-assured look which he put on with
men who came to him for appointments and had to be
made to understand why they could not have them.
This look generally produced conviction, or, what did as
well, prostration He now paused for a reply. Lady
Miranda was a woman of resource and accustomed to
succeed, and was neither prostrated nor convinced.

Well,' she said, ' you shall have your way. I will
send you a piece of my book as soon as it is finished —-'A
chapter on Secretaries, and how to manage a Bureau." *

'Or,' said Masterly, ' call it "A chapter on Bureaux, and
how to manage a Secretary." Of course. Lady Miranda,
you shall have whatever you want, when you like it
and as you like it. But now there is something that /
want. I hear your songs are delightful. I am longing
to hear you. You must really sing to us.'

• But you must promise to sing to me' said Lady
miranda, '' and then it is a bargain.'

I hope,' said Chichele, as he wished Lady miranda
good-night, ' that you found your companion agreeable ;
how did you like him ? '

•' I am not quite sure that I like him,' said Miranda ;
'he is rather impracticable, and, like you all, very

frivolous. He tells me that he is humdrum, but I had
great difficulty in making him become practicable and
talk like a reasonable being. However, I have asked
him to come for a ride with me tomorrow.'

Then,' said Chichele, ' I prophesy that he will soon
become as practicable as you please.'

- MASTERLY BECOMES PRACTICABLE

Ingenium ingens
Insult late hoc sub corpore.'

Masterly came the next afternoon for his ride in a
less amenable mood than ever. The artist in him was
supreme. He would talk of nothing but music, and he
was full of Lady Miranda's songs the night before.

They were delightful ! ' he cried, * really delightful —
that lovely air from Faust, what is its name ? I have
been dreaming about it all last night. What a genius
Gounod is ! is he not ? And the delicious Rend HI
serene. Why does no one sing Handel nowadays ? and
that nocturne of Chopin you played ! It was a gem.
Ah, Lady Miranda, when one hears airs like that, one
feels that music is the one thing really worth caring
about in life, really worth troubling about ! Tell
me, where did you learn your art ? I feel it desecration

to talk about anything but music to you. Now we have a
nice long afternoon before us. I will take you a charming,
quiet ride where no one can interrupt us, and you
must talk about music to me or sing to me all the time.'

Miranda felt very much discouraged, but it was
hopeless to struggle against what was evidently an
overpowering mood. The only chance was to lure her
companion to more serious themes. It was not without
its element of charm, moreover, to find that she had
had so appreciative and sympathetic a listener; and
Masterly speedily convinced her that he was entitled to
criticise with the authority of an accomplished connoisseur.
She soon found that he knew a great deal on
all musical topics, and spoke about them with a discriminating
decisiveness that showed that his taste —
his likings and disliking — was something very real to
him. Lady miranda found herself — in spite of her disappointment
and her own intentions in another direction
becoming very much interested, and began to resign
herself to her fate with the reflection that the afternoon,
if profitless from the business point of view, was likely
to prove very agreeable.

I should like to come and have some musical mornings
with you. I have a charming scheme — I will tell

you what we will do. We will appropriate some of
Mr. Chichele's fiddlers and a violoncello, and have a
real, serious time with the old masters. I have heard
no Beethoven for an age. What is the Sonata with
the wild scherzo that begins like this V and Easterly
hummed the air, and Lady Miranda discovered that
his ear was true to a nicety and his voice a plaintive
tenor that sounded delicate and melodious.

Ah,' she said, ' you sing, I see ! ' And when they got
home it turned out that Masterly could sing, if not with
a finished exactness, yet with perfect sense of musical
effect, and, at any rate, quite well enough to be an
agreeable partner in a duet. And then Lady Miranda's
portfolios abounded in many charming duets, which
were explored, practised, and performed for the
benefit of the performers and of Chichele and his
guests.

This common taste in music naturally led the way to
mutual confidences in other directions, and Lady Miranda
found the task of exploring Masterly at once easy and
agreeable. Masterly entirely threw off the artificial air
of cynicism which he had worn the night before, and
allowed aU the blossoms of his nature to expand in a way
that Lady Miranda felt to be deeply gratifying. He responded

at once to her lead into book-talk, and, to her
surprise, knew more about all the latest publications in
England than she did herself, or than even the more
cultured of those among whom she lived. Her husband
had been a great reader in his way ; but his busy life
left him little leisure for anything but the Times, the
most talked-of review of the month, and any novel which
she considered good enough to recommend to him. For
poetry Mr. Brownlow had but an unsympathetic tolerance
; Browning he condemned as an unintelligible
farrago of crude thoughts and obscure language, which
it was an impertinence to palm off as art on the
credulity of mankind. Swinburne was violent, silly,
extravagant rhapsody. Tennyson not violent enough,
and growing cashier every year.

'Chichele and I,' he said, 'used to think a great
deal of it when we were cultivating conservatism and
sestheticism at Oxford, and the Princess, I admit, was a
pretty skit.'

A what ! ' exclaimed Lady Miranda in horror ;
the songs in the Princess a skit ? Well, George, what
next?'

'Well, Miranda,' replied Brownlow, 'it was a skit,
you know, at women's rights and girl-graduates and all

that sort of thing ; and now we have got the real thing,
notwithstanding.'

'You must remember that I was a girl-graduate
myself, and only left college to marry the most prosaic
of mankind. I wish I had stayed and become a mistress
of arts.'

You are perfection as you are,' said her husband ;
'but you will never convince me that poetry is anything
but rhetoric with a jingle, and rhetoric anything
but unhealthy prose.'

Stop, stop ! ' cried Miranda in despair ; ' it is profanation.
Here, George, is Sir T. Brasses's Work and
Wages of the Labouring Classes for you. Will that do ?
as healthy and prosaic as you please.'

If you had got two thousand labourers all wanting
their wages on Saturday nights, as I often have, you
would learn that there is some poetry in that too,'
said her husband ; and so their discussion would end,
and Lady Miranda would admit to herself that poetry
was not in her husband's line, and was not a good thing
to talk about to him.

But now Masterly, having brought her to a lovely
valley and a woodland which was one great tangle
of wildflowers, and every branch half hidden with

orchids and ferns, and the mountain side beyond alive
with waving grasses and flecked with passing clouds
and the afternoon shadows — burst out, of his own accord,
into a Wordsworthian rhapsody.

I have christened this place the Daffodils,' he said.
It always comes into my head when I am here. What
a pretty picture it is ! —

* ' I wandered lonely as a cloud

That floats on high o'er vales and hills,

When all at once I saw a crowd,
A crowd of golden daffodils,

Beside the lake, beneath the trees,

Fluttering and dancing in the breeze.

"The waves beside them danced, but they

Outdid the sparkling waves in glee ;
A poet could not but be gay

In such a jocund company ;
I gazed and gazed, but little thought
What wealth the show to me had brought.

' ' For oft when on my couch I lie,

For vacant or for pensive mood,
They flash upon that inward eye

That is the bliss of solitude ;
And then my heart with pleasure fills,
And dances with the daffodils." '

Lady Miranda listened with delight ; and then Masterly's
tongue was loosed, and the rich storehouse of

memory, from which nothing that he liked seemed ever to
fade, poured out, at the touch of a kindred soul, its hidden
treasures of delight. Masterly seemed to know everything
by heart, and to love all Miranda's chosen passages
with a discerning devotion, which sent him up at once
many steps in her esteem.

*Ah!' he said, as they rode on, 'that inward eye
that is the bliss of solitude " — one has plenty of use for
that in India, Lady Miranda, I can tell you. Woe to
the wretch who has it not, and sees nothing but a
world of dull surroundings.'

But,' said his companion, ' your life does not look
to me at all dull. I think I should like it. It is so
delightfully free.'

Masterly turned upon her with a sudden earnestness
as unlike as possible to his usual tone of persiflage.

Yes,' he said ; ' free as the desert, — " the desolate
freedom of the wild jackass," — freedom from the people
you care about, the things you are interested in, the
places you love — freedom from everything but what can
be tied up in red tape and put in a despatch-box — freedom
which is free in the same way that the Eoman's
solitude was peace.'

'You have disliked India, then, very much some-vol.

II. K

times?' said his companion; 'what a dreadful description
!'

I love these lonely highlands said Masterly, lost
apparently to all but the scene around him, ' with the
monsoon rushing over them with its precious burthen
for the famished, parched plains below. There is
poetry in it, is there not? But you should see an
Indian plain the week before the rains begin to know
how poetical they are. Evelyn's song is a prayer to
the south-west monsoon :

• " diviner Air ;
Through the heat, the drouth, the dust, the glare,

Far from out the west in shadowing showers.
Over all the meadows baked and bare,
Making fresh and fair
All the bowers and the flowers —
Fainting flowers, faded bowers —
Over all this weary world of ours
Breathe diviner Air." '

Masterly had taken off his hat to have full enjoyment
of the breeze that was tossing his hair into wilder
disarray than usual. His eye had lit up with animation
; his face was bright with power, tenderness, pathos.
His voice, as he recited, trembled with feeling. Lady
Miranda felt that for once, in a cold world of commonplace,
she had hit upon a vein of true romance, and

forgot lier desire to be instructed in the keener enjoyment
of being charmed. Masterly was, she felt, a
kindred spirit with whom it would be natural to be
confidential about more interesting topics than the
Indian politics.

'Look,' said Masterly at last, as a black mass of
cloud came rolling over the mountain side and blotting
out all the sweet glory of the afternoon :

' ' Far along the world-wide whisper of the south vend rushing warm,
With the standards of the people ploughing thro' the thunder-storm,
And the nation's airy navies grappling in the central blue"'

Yes ! ' cried Lady Miranda, by this time in the highest
spirits at having thoroughly enjoyed her afternoon —
yes, here they come, and we shall have the results of
the battle upon us in another minute. Let us gallop
homewards while we can.'

'Well,' said Chichele, as, half an hour later, he
helped her down from her pony, dripping with the
heavy downpour of a mountain shower, ' how did you
get on ? Was he practicable ? '

Most practicable and most delightful,' said Miranda,
and the least humdrum person I have ever met.'

MRS. Paragon's triumph

• Ros. What think you of falling in love ?

Cel. Marry, I prithee, do, to make sport withal ; but love no
man in good earnest ; nor no further in sport neither than with safety
of a pure blush thou mayest in honour come off again. '

As You Like It.

Chichele always felt himself well off when he had
Mrs. Paragon and the Eashleighs to dinner, especially
when, as not unfrequently happened, Mrs. Eashleigh
was not well enough to come, and Chichele, accordingly,
escaped the responsibility of entertaining her.
This was one of the social obligations for which Chichele
felt himself perfectly inadequate. She was a nice, excellent,
ladylike woman, but Chichele found her difficult to
talk to. His attempts at conversation used to die away
like abortive fireworks, and he used to sit in despairing
silence, enviously watching the flow of talk around him,
and wondering what the deuce he should say next.

Providence, which tempers the wind to the shorn lamb,
came to the aid of Chichele in the shape of a convalescent
home for Europeans, on which Mrs. Eashleigh
and Chichele's views entirely harmonised, and about
which the lady was delighted to talk for ever. Chichele
used to say that this home had been Ms saving, if nobody
else's. But with Mrs. Paragon and Miss Eash-
leigh Chichele found himself in no danger of needing
congenial topics of conversation. Mrs. Paragon was
a chatterton of the first water. She brought with her
the freshest piece of gossip, the last hon mot achieved in
Cerulean circles, Masterly's newest witticism, the last
wave of rumour from Simla. Always fully primed
with interesting material — longing to let it off, — good-natured,
high-spirited, and vivacious — her pretty person
set off to the best possible advantage in a series of well-considered
toilettes — her presence was generally admitted
to add lustre to the entertainments at which
she appeared. Chichele, at any rate, very much liked
to have her as a guest.

He had with good reason great confidence in Mrs.
Paragon's resources in the way of devising amusements
for his guests. ' You must really come and stay with
me,' he had said, directly he had heard of the Brownlows'

intended visit, 'and keep everything straight for me.
Without you I shall get into some frightful confusion, I
am certain.' Mrs. Paragon was only too delighted to
come : she arrived, at the proper moment, with several
bullock-loads of boxes, full of pretty dresses, and devoted
herself with praiseworthy alacrity to keeping
the house in order and all the guests comfortable and
well pleased. She assisted the A.D.C.'s in arranging
the parties, settled who should be asked, and who should
take whom into dinner, inspected and criticised themes,
had long and confidential communications with Chichele
and the major-domo, and, — all her duties decently fulfilled,
used to come down to dinner, the picture of innocent
freshness, looking as if no weightier anxieties than those
of her own ambrosial toilette had engaged her thoughts.
In public she retired gracefully into the background,
after discharging satisfactorily all these important and
responsible functions. As Chichele said, she was a
woman of unusual tact ; and it was to her ear that he first
entrusted a project of amusement, which had shaped
itself vaguely in his mind, but as to the feasibility of
which he felt grave misgivings. This was to carry off
the entire party to a lovely glen some twenty miles away,
among the mountains, where the scenery was wilder, the

solitude more complete, and life more unconventional
than at his mountain headquarters.

Here,' said Chichele, ' we will take our ease. Lady-miranda
can write up her journal, and you ladies, who
are so fond of discussion, may have a symposium and
settle all the mysteries of existence to your heart's
content without the least risk of doing anybody any
harm. You may sit, like the angels in Milton, 'upon a
hill retired — in thoughts more elevate, and reason high
of Providence, foreknowledge, will, and fate — fixed fate,
free will " — your own sweet wills, that is, and the fixed
fate of your husbands, and anything else you please.
Then, when you are tired of discussion and have amused
one another, we will all tell stories in turn like the
people in the Cameron, only that our stories will aube
proper ones, of course.'

Delightful,' said Mrs. Paragon ; ' I have a charming
story that I am dying to tell already. We will consider
it settled, and the A.D.C.'s and I will arrange the
details tomorrow.'

You will have to get round Masterly,' Chichele said ;
I am sure I don't know if he will allow me to go. He
wil say it is impossible, and he is awfully immovable,
you know. I don't envy you the job.'

Pour etre difficile la taclie n'est que plus glorieuse,'
said Mrs. Paragon, with a pleasant assurance of her
powers of carrying her way ; ' you will see I shall
manage him.' And she was as good as her word.

Next morning Mrs. Paragon found Masterly alone in
the breakfast-room before the rest of the party had
assembled, and confided to him with a gleeful audacity
the project which she and Mr. Chichele had concocted
the night before. ' We are going on an expedition to
the Upper Ranges for a week. We shall leave dull care,
debts, duty, dotage, dearly beloved darlings of husbands,
and all the other troublesome Ds. behind us, and amuse
each other for a week with talking philosophy and
looking at the world, like St. Simon Stylites, from
a pinnacle.'

And, amongst the other Ds., how about despatch-boxes
and determined demons of Secretaries ?' asked
Masterly.

Of course you are to come,' said his companion ; ' we
could not possibly do without you — you, and as many
clerks and red boxes as you please.'

My dear Mrs. Paragon,' said Masterly, ' it is simply
out of the question. I can't possibly come, nor can Mr.
Chichele ; what can he have been dreaming of?'

Of fair women said Mvs. Paragon, ' and other nice
persuasive things. Now, Mr. Masterly, don't be disagreeable,
please — but come, like a good creature.'

A good creature ! Mrs. Paragon cried the other,
taking off his spectacles and wiping them with an air
of determination ; 'don't good creature me. Weave your
spells for amiable, enthusiastic weaklings like Ambrose.
But, seriously, it is out of the question. Neither of us
can go. Mr. Chichele is in frightful arrears as it is —
about ten big things all wanting immediate disposal. I
can't get a stroke of work out of him.'

'You are a perfect tyrant; we will incite him to
rebellion — go we must and shall.'

Temptress!' cried Masterly, throwing himself into an
attitude of deprecation :

" Thou hast metamorphosed me,
Made me forget my studies, lose my time,
AVar with good counsel (the Governor-general's), set the world at

naught,
Made wit With musings weak,"

and generally played the deuce with me. No ; I can't
and won't. This very morning the Government of
India has been telegraphing for an answer about our
Hills railway.'

Telegraph back to say that you have gone to the
hills to look at it.'

Sir Theophilus Prance's project is waiting for ours.
He will be very angry.'

'Sir Theophilus Prance!' said Mrs. Paragon, with a
seductive pout; 'tell him you have called a mass
meeting to consider it, and mean to settle the question
of its advisability by universal suffrage of Coerulean
peasants. But come now, do please, there's a good
creature.'

Will you promise to call me a good creature everyday
? ' said her companion.

Twice a day, three times a day, and all day long,'
said the enchantress ; ' only come.'

Well,' said Masterly, ' it is very wrong ; I shall be
as dull as ditch water and as cross as two sticks.'

Only come,' said the triumphant Mrs. Paragon,
and I will keep you as sweet as sugar ; and then,
I must tell you, the whole thing is to be very intellectual.'


Intellectual ! ' cried Masterly ; ' then I certainly
won't come.'

'Yes,' said Mrs. Paragon, recalling the terms of
Chichele's invitation with a wild inaccuracy, which washer

especial forte ; * we are to sit on a hill retired, and
discuss fate, foreknowledge, and free trade, like the
people in Milton.'

It was Mrs. Paragon's foible to appropriate every
phrase which pleased her ear, without in the least
understanding it, and her fate, accordingly, to achieve
blunders which would have done honour to Mrs.
Malaprop. Her friends took these occasional slips asa
matter of course.

Ah ! ' said Masterly, ' suggestive topics indeed !
all the same free trade had not been invented when
Milton's fallen angels had their symposia.'

But lovely woman had,' said Mrs. Paragon, with a
blush at her mistake, which more than atoned for it.
'Anyhow, we are to have a small, private debating
Society all to ourselves, and as I regard argument as my
forte, I look forward to it immensely. I am burning
to convince you.'

'The logic of beauty is always irresistible,' said
Masterly ; ' I suppose you must have your way.'

You are a dear creature,' said Mrs. Paragon, radiant
with success ; and then the rest of the party came into
breakfast.

That is 07ice' said Masterly, as he took his seat by

Mrs. Paragon ; ' remember it is to be three times a
day for the next fortnight.'

Mrs. Paragon beamed him a whole volume of ' dear
creatures ' out of her sweet blue eyes, and settled herself
to breakfast with the agreeable sensation of having
already done a very good day's work.

A HILL Conclave

"We had books among the Hills,
Strong words of counselling souls confederate —
With local pines and waters. '

He has consented ! ' Mrs. Paragon, blushing joyously,
informed Chichele, as, a minute or two afterwards,
he came in and took the vacant seat beside her ;
now talk to me about diplomacy ! '

Venus Victrix ! ' said Chichele, ' I had no idea he
was so weak-minded. What is this, Masterly, that you
and Mrs. Paragon have been plotting against my vows
of diligence? When a man's own secretary betrays
him into picnics, Lady Miranda, what is the good of
one's vows of assiduity ? My dear Masterly, I had no
idea you were so unprincipled.'

'The woman that thou gayest me, sir,' said Masterly
; ' when a governor, Lady Miranda, besets his

secretary's path with lovely woman, what is the good
of one's well-known devotion to duty and determination
of character? I confess to being completely
demoralised.'

Not at all,' said Mrs. Paragon ; ' self-surrender is
the keystone of morality. Besides, as I told you, weare
to be extremely industrious, and settle all the great
unsettled questions of the day, sitting on a hill retired,
like the people in Paradise Lost!

But I bar theology,' said Brownlow, who came in
from the garden with a volume under his arm ; ' please
to remember that a theological discussion is fit employment
only for fallen spirits in torment '

Or a Scotchman in his kirk,' said Chichele, — 'though,
by the way, that comes, so far as I am concerned, to
pretty much the same thing.'

Just let me read you,' said Brownlow, * a good
story I came upon in my Lecky this morning. Once
upon a time, you must know, in the reign of George
the Second, there was a Mr. Francis Hutchinson,
who was Professor of Moral Philosophy somewhere
or other, and had a turn for liberal ideas. Well, in his
youth the unfortunate man came home for a holiday
and was invited to occupy his father's pulpit, and,

naturally, threw his audience into moral convulsions.
Your silly son Frank," one of the elders said, " has
washed a' the congregation wi' his idle cackle ; for he
has been babbling this 'or about a gude and benevolent
God, and that the souls of the heathen themselves will
gang to heaven if they follow the licht of their ain consciences.
Not a word does the daft boy ken, speer, nor
say, about the gude comfortable doctrines of election,
reprobation, original sin, and faith. Hoot man, wa'
with sic a fellow." '

'Gude comfortable doctrines, indeed !' cried Chichele.
'Well, we'll have none of them at Devi Schola, except,
perhaps, a little original sin to season our virtue, and
preserve it from the flatness of monotony.'

And one point of faith,' said Masterly, ' which shall
be " toties mundi ac ecclesiae : " we all believe devoutly
in Mrs. Paragon. But what tremendous fellows those
Scotchmen are. I have a good story about one. He was
boasting that Scotch apples were far superior to American.'

Come, come !' some one said, 'you don't really mean
to say that ! '

I do,' said the Scotchman, ' but I must premise
that I like them soon and hard.'

'Ah 1 ' said Chichele, 'and that is how they like their

theology too, " soon and hard." I remember, the last
time I was in Scotland, asking a comely young housewife,
who was petting her baby with a tender air, what
was the difference between her religion and that of half
a dozen conventicles which, along with the public-houses,
monopolised the main street of the village.
"There's just nae difference, that I ken on," she said
good-naturedly, "except that we shall be saved and
they will be damned." But about this expedition to
the Schola, I shall insist on real hard work. Lady
Miranda will be busy with her book and her sketching,
and will, no doubt, require Masterly's continuous
assistance. So I shall have all his work to do as well
as my own. Besides, I am going to read Dante with
Miss Kashleigh. But we must have some regular discussions.
Mrs. Paragon has already promised me a speech.'

Yes, and I am polishing it up in private,' said Mrs.
Paragon; 'my peroration will be lovely — prepare for
rapture.'

'I do not suppose we shall be touched, even by
Mrs. Paragon,' said Masterly ; ' not even her persuasive
lips will melt our unromantic hearts — ours is an iron
age. A century ago people were far more demonstrative.
I was reading, somewhere, the other day, that when

Sheridan finished his speech on the Begum charge, he
was greeted by all his friends throwing themselves on
his neck in raptures of joy, and Burke caught him in his
arms as he sat down

Well,' said Mrs. Paragon, ' I wonder whether anyone
will catch me in their arms when I sit down at the
conclusion of my speech. Mr. Ambrose, I know I may
depend on you, faute de view:. But what a phlegmatic
age ours is ! and why is everybody so horribly undemonstrative
V

But we do not mean to be undemonstrative at all,'
said Masterly ; ' I already feel an inward, anticipatory
stirring of emotion, and, if any one is permitted to
catch you, Mrs. Paragon, as you close, the privilege
will be mine. It is always done by the Chief-secretary
: a mere boy like Ambrose could not be
trusted to do it properly, and it would be a breach of
etiquette.'

'It will be into my arms, if into any one's,' said
Chichele authoritatively, ' that Mrs. Paragon will fall.
Masterly is too impassioned for such an experience.
He would be thinking about it afterwards, and I should
get no work out of him for a week. But I am very
cross this morning. Lord Flake, who was here for

VOL. IL L

a fortnight last year, has been making a speech about
India in the House of Lords and has called us all
Proconsuls. Why, on earth, if a man has the bad luck
to be exiled to India, should people aggravate his
miseries by calling him a proconsul?'

One of Mrs. Paragon's strong points was a lovely
pout, with which she frequently emphasised her
observations. She made use of it on the present
occasion.

'A proconsul!' she cried, in tones of scorn, 'a word
that — like prig, prim, prude, propriety, and a quantity
more — justifies a pet theory of mine that all things
that begin with PE are objectionable.'

'What do you say to Prince of Wales?' asked
Ambrose.

This was a telling stroke, for that royal personage
had smiled upon Mrs. Paragon, had sent for her to be
introduced to him at a Cerulean Ball, had danced a valse
with her, and taken her for a walk in the verandah.
The recollection of that valse and that walk had made
her supremely happy for a lifetime, and people who
wished to conciliate Mrs. Paragon made a point of referring
to the incident whenever occasion allowed.

'He,' she now answered with a becoming blush, 'is

the brilliant exception which proves the rule, and, if
it comes to that, what do you say to Sir Theophilus
Prance?'

Ha ! thou hast me there ! ' said Chichele ; ' that
thrust is a settler ! I give up the PE's. Then there is
the prize ring we have forgotten.'

Here is mine said Mrs. Paragon, showing Ambrose
the third finger of a very pretty hand, where a gold hoop
lay hid among a number of more striking ornaments,
and by the way, my lord and master is coming up tomorrow.
'

Rebus IN ARDUIS

The Gods are just, and of our pleasant vices
Make instruments to plague us.'

If Ambrose occasionally made official blunders he had
the excuse of domestic troubles, which were now gatherings
thick around him. Existence had beo-un to be
something too perplexed and grievous for even his
light-heartedness to bear up against with equanimity.
His home life was increasingly unhappy. His efforts
to make it otherwise were disastrously unsuccessful.
He was conscious of a stinging sensation that his wife
despised him. Camilla, on her part, was making equally
strenuous and equally ineffectual struggles to crush
down a growing contempt, which day by day it became
less possible to ignore. So their intercourse became
constrained, self-conscious, less and less pleasurable.
Try as he would, Philip could not feel at ease

with his wife. His mirth died away when they were
together ; there was no longer the easy flow of familiar
chat ; he found himself, sometimes, wondering how it
was that once he had found her society full of the
most enjoyable repose, the most invigorating and
delightful excitement. Those happy days were as
completely gone as though they had belonged to some
other beings or some former existence. Xor was his
home the only place where Philip felt uncomfortable
and ill at ease. General Eashleigh treated him with
a haughty politeness, which contrasted disagreeably
enough with the honliomie of former days. Miss
Eashleigh, who seemed, at first, more likely than the
rest to be indulgent, was completely estranged. She
had told him, in so many words, that she scorned him asa
traitor. She and Camilla were the closest friends, and
Miss Eashleigh was, Ambrose knew, continually coming
to spend long days with his wife when he was away at
his office. Camilla never referred to these visits, and
Philip blushed to think what was the cause of her
silence. The two women, no doubt, compared their
experiences, and agreed in condemning the part which
he had played in each. The fact that their condemnation
was silent made it none the less bitter. It would

have been better to be openly vituperated than thus
secretly despised. No man's fortitude is proof against
polite contempt, and Philip found very little fortitude
at his command. No one was angry with him ; no one
was rude. The Eashleighs made no sort of grievance.
Miss Eashleigh met him with an unconcern that he
felt to be absolutely unfeeling. She could never then,
after all, have cared a straw about him. In everyone's
demeanour alike, Philip read the damning verdict,
that he had forfeited esteem. He was a weak creature,
whose failures could excite neither surprise nor indignation.
He had behaved badly, dishonourably ; no one
was interested in proclaiming his bad and dishonourable
behaviour. Consideration to his wife, perhaps even
kindliness to himself, led to its being left sub siUntio;
but the horrid fact was there all the same, and was continually
giving unwelcome hints of its existence. Mr.
Chichele, Philip felt positive, had come to know of what
had taken place ; he had dropped the pleasant familiarity
of old days, and was dry, curt, and almost discourteous
in his official communications. He cut about poor
Ambrose's nicely - written drafts remorselessly, and
found fault with his secretariat notes with as little
compunction as a critical schoolmaster with the tasks

of a careless pupil. On the other hand, his behaviour
both to Camilla and Miss Eashleigh was something
more than polite. With Camilla he was on terms of
friendly and confidential intimacy, and seemed for ever
on the look-out for something that he could do to please
her. To Florence Eashleigh he showed a chivalrous
kindness, which implied the existence of something
which especially demanded consideration, and which
contrasted, too markedly to escape attention, with the
good-natured ease of Chichele's behaviour to most of
the young ladies who enjoyed his hospitality. Ambrose
could not but suspect the cause. Chichele considered
her to have been badly treated, and his sympathy
with her wrongs expressed itself in more than ordinary
courtesy. Sometimes, too, Chichele would say things
that stung Philip like the lash of a whip. One evening,
for instance, by way of breaking the formality of a dull
dinner, they played at children's games.

Mineral ! ' some one had cried, throwing a handkerchief
to Ambrose.

A woman's heart ! ' Philip had cried — ' the hardest
sort of rock at present known.'

That is why young men are so fond of trying to break
them,' Chichele had observed, with sententious emphasis.

Was this an accident and unmeaning, or an intentional
sneer? Philip could ask no one else, and did
not dare to ask himself. Meanwhile he began to feel
a disagreeable sensation of being an outsider at the
gatherings in Chichele's drawing-room, and to like
Chichele himself a good deal less than he had at first.
Philip's conscience, aided by these subtle indications
of public opinion, became distressingly self-assertive.
He had generally been able to silence its upbraiding.
Somehow he could do so no longer. Nor were his
domestic and social grievances the only things that
plagued him. His money affairs were rapidly verging
to a crisis. He had plunged with half desperate
recklessness into the Muddapollium gold project.
There had been brilliant reports, dazzling results of
experimental crushing, and all parties concerned had
imagined themselves about to become millionaires.
Philip had been unable to resist the delicious chance
of sudden wealth, and ignoring the official rule, which
forbade his having any speculation in the province, had
committed himself, in the name of one of his native
creditors, to the brilliant undertaking. In various
small ways his position enabled him to smooth the way
for the promoters of the infant project. There were

questions connected with the concession from the State
and the royalty to be paid which might have been
troublesome had not a friendly hand at the Secretariat
pushed matters on, and gently put difficulties on one
side. No one of those around him had a farthing's
interest in the scheme or a suspicion of Philip's interest
in it, and his official recommendations passed without
scrutiny or comment. The technical advisers of the
Government thought badly of the prospects of the
scheme and treated the chance of finding gold in any
paying quantities as chimerical. The ground showed
symptoms of having been carefully worked out before,
and had been abandoned probably on the search ceasing
to be remunerative. Modern appliances might possibly
enable the work to be carried on again at a
profit, but it was an absolute guess. The odds were
against it. The difficulties of climate, carriage, water,
and labour were enormous; the expenditure must
in any case be most serious. On the whole the
Coerulean authorities took a discouraging view of the
Muddapollium gold-fields, and were inclined to treat
the concession aries with indulgence. The concession-aries,
however, had grounds of confidence about which
the Government knew nothing, but of which Philip,

through his native friends, became aware. The brisk
gentleman, hailing from Australia, confident in his
vast mining experience, had again been over the
ground, and collected specimens of the quartz, which
showed that, after making every possible allowance, the
undertaking could not fail to be a very Pactolus to all
who had the good luck to dip their fingers in it. Then
the contract was signed ; in a month or two there were
some public crushing of the material collected, and
hope was converted into a golden certainty. There
was ocular demonstration that the MuddapoUium quartz
was exceptionally rich in the precious ore. Everybody
was convinced, except, perhaps, the Government mineralogist,
who shook his head and said, Tant pis pour
les faits. The newspapers wrote with generous enthusiasm.
The probable effects of the discovery on
the labour market, on general prices, on the rate of
Exchange, were eagerly discussed. The news was
telegraphed to London, and the MuddapoUium shares
rushed to a premium. A hundred per cent today,
a hundred and fifty the next ; where was it to
stop ?

Suppose,' suggested Philip's native friend, ' your
Highness were to sell. You have made a magnificent investment

; your shares have trebled in value. At their
present price they would about realise the amount
which your Highness has done me the favour of making
use of from his humble servant's treasury : its return
just now would be a matter of convenience. I am a
poor man. I crave only your Highness's favour, so often
shown me. You are my protector. The market is at
its top. I advise you to sell.'

Sell ! ' cried Philip in indignation, ' and throw away
my good luck, in a fit of cowardice, just as it is dropping
into my hands. Why, Palaveram, you are not
afraid, are you ? '

x^o,' said the native, quietly ; ' I have nothing to be
afraid about. I telegraphed to realise yesterday, and
I have just heard of the sale at a hundred and forty.
Take my advice and do the same ; sell while you can.'

You know something ? ' Philip cried.

I ? ' said his visitor ; ' God forbid ; but it is a general
rule of business, when you have made a good profit, to
take it and clear out. Do so now.'

Thank you for your advice,' said Philip ; ' why on
earth should one throw away a good thing when one
has got it ? '

'Your Highness is master — be it as you please,'

said the native, bowing himself obsequiously from his
debtor's presence. But he was evidently uneasy, and next
morning came again. 'Has your Highness realised?'
he asked, anxiously.

'No,' said Philip, by this time beginning to get
frightened ; ' do you really think I had better ? '

I told you yesterday,' said the native, with a mental
ejaculation at the stolidity of his interlocutor — ' I told
you that I had sold my own ; what more do you want ?
Sell, sell, without a day's delay.'

A day's delay ? ' said Philip, his cheeks bloodless
with a sudden apprehension ; ' what is the matter ? '

Nothing is the matter,' said his visitor, with perfect
composure ; * but why procrastinate ? '

'Well,' said Philip, 'to please you, Palaveram, I
will realise.'

The old native, despite himself, gave a sigh of relief.

'Your Highness will please himself of course,' he
said, as he bowed himself out of Ambrose's study.

Philip could not make up his mind to telegraph
that day. It was cruel to part with this darling project.
If he sold now, indeed, he would be free of his
most important creditor ; but what a falling-off from the
pleasant dreams, in which he had for so long been indulging,

of a perennial Pactolus. So lie held his hand.
It was that greedy, ungrateful scoundrel's anxiety to be
paid, regardless of Philip's interest. He would not be
bullied or frightened. Next morning, when he opened
his newspaper, the first thing that greeted his eye was
a London telegram announcing that a confederacy of
dissatisfied shareholders had sent out a competent
inspector to MuddapoUium on their own behalf ; that
his report was disastrous ; that there had been a stormy
meeting, fierce recriminations, an exposure ; and that the
MuddapoUium gold shares were nowhere. The bubble
had burst, and with it Philip's last chance of financial
rehabilitation was gone. A crash was inevitable.

BROWNLOW TAKES A HOLIDAY

We are born to do benefits ; and what better or proper can we call
our own than the riches of our friends ?' — Timon of Athens.

Brownlow had now thoroughly mastered the question
of the Hill Railway, and set about enjoying himself
with characteristic vehemence. He had all the figures
at his fingers' ends, had made up his mind as to the
terms on which his firm would undertake the contract,
and had sent down the plans and estimates to be worked
out in detail in a surveyor's office at Windipatam. In
the meantime he had nothing on his mind, and nothing
to do but to read novels and reviews, make an occasional
onslaught on Chichele's weekly pile of English
papers, lounge about the garden in the mornings, ride
over the mountains with the ladies in the afternoon, and
sit up, far into the night, deep in long, pleasant chats
with Chichele over the library fire. Both men were

delighted to have finished with the railway — Brownlow,
because he had done all the thinking and asking about
it which he felt to be necessary, and saw his way clearly
to a project which promised to be interesting and profitable
; Chichele, because he was heartily sick of a subject
which, the more he studied it, the greater depths
of puzzled and worry did it disclose. Anyhow it
was pleasant to the two men to live over some of their
young times once again, and wake up, in friendly talk,
recollections which had been dormant for years and were
fast fading into obscurity. They were like two boys
together, and lapsed into a mood of boyish fun, which
the one had forgotten in officials and the other in
hard work. They went off, by themselves, on a bear-shooting
expedition, and came back, in the best of
spirits, with jokes at each other's misses, and merriment,
the mellow outcome of good fellowship. Brownlow
declared that when he asked the head Shikaree how
Chichele had been shooting, that functionary had diplomatically
replied that ' the Lord sahib had shot magnificently,
but God was merciful to the bears.'

That man is a born courtier,' he said, ' and ought
to have been a Lord Chamberlain. Fancy an English
gamekeeper achieving such adroitness.'

Chichele was delighted once more to have a companion.


It is such a comfort, you know,' he said to Lady
Miranda, 'to have some one who does not call one
Sir," does not want an appointment or a scolding, and
who has no compunction in contradicting one.'

'Ah!' said Lady Miranda, 'George is great at contradiction
; he has no compunction in contradicting
any one — even his wife.'

'Ungrateful woman!' said Brownlow ; 'have not I
sacrificed all my most cherished convictions in political
economy on the altar of domestic love ? — Amici Veritas,
amicissirna conjux!

Besides,' said Chichele, ' what would life be worth

without contradiction ?

" Discourse may want an animated ' No,'
To brush its surface and to make it flow. " '

Yes,' said Mrs. Paragon ; ' but it is one of those
tonics of which a little goes a long way, like quinine.
By the way, that is, no doubt, one of the advantages of
matrimony ; you secure a never-failing supply of contradiction.'


'Yes,' said Chichele; 'and that accounts for husbands
and wives being so tremendously attached. Did

you hear of the touching answer a Cerulean husband
sent the other day to his wife, when she proposed to
rejoin him from England ? — " My love," he wrote, " I
have not yet got over the shock of our last separation'"

That was a polite form of " an animated No," I suppose,'
said Mrs. Paragon. ' For my part I consider every
form of contradiction detestable.'

And that,' said Masterly, ' is why no one ever has
the heart to contradict Mrs. Paragon.'

You were very good about coming here, I admit,'
said the lady with a gracious smile, ' and you have your
reward. See how you are enjoying it.'

Of course,' cried Masterly, throwing himself into an
attitude of mock heroics —

" Without the smile from partial beauty avoid,

Oh, what were man ? A world without its fun," '

Is it really that ?' said Mrs. Paragon, whom long experience
had rendered distrustful of Masterly 's quotations,
or are you turning something with nonsense as usual V

Well,' said Masterly, ' it is not quite right ; it

should be " a child without its bun"; it's a beautiful

simile, is it not ? one of Campbell's finest ; poor little

unless child ; poor womanless humanity ! Don't you

feel how touching it is ? '

VOL. n. M

jS'o/ said Mrs. Paragon ; ' hot and cross are the
only qualities I associate with buns ; and as I am
always cool and good-natured, I repudiate the insinuation.'


Think of Bath buns ! ' cried Masterly, with an air of
rapture ; ' I used to be tremendously fond of them when
I was a little boy — glazed and sticky, with a sugar plum
on the top. The passion gave way before the vicissitudes
of my first attachment ; that is why I feel the
force of the simile. I refuse to think of a unless child
or of a world without Mrs. Paragon.'

That is all very well,' said that lady, ' but men are
hard-hearted monsters. I came only yesterday on a
story of an economical French gentleman who had the
misfortune to lose three wives, and commemorated the
virtues of all three and his own misfortunes in a single
tablet, in which he described the dear departed ones as
triple source damer regret." '

That reminds me,' said Montemm, ' of a countryman
of mine whose wife was, as he thought, needlessly protracting
her last moments by various household directions.
" Diana fash yourself', my gude woman," he said,
but get on with the define." '

Meanwhile the clouds were gathering thick about

poor Ambrose. The gold-mine project was going from
one abysmal depth to another. The English shareholders,
fierce with disappointed hopes, had broken out
into vindictiveness, and were insisting on a rigorous investigation.
A great deal of money had been spent in
floating the company. Into whose hands had it gone ?
Who was responsible for the initiation of the scheme,
the description of the property, the reports of the gold-testing?
Ambrose was not really responsible for any
of these matters, but, somehow, the responsible people
seemed to be melting away, and he felt that he was
beginning to stand alone.

The Australian gentleman, whose prophecies graced
the infancy of the company with so golden a halo,
had disappeared, in search, no doubt, of fresh fields and
pastures new in the gullibility of his species. Philip
began to realise, with disagreeable distinctness, that,
while other things had disappeared, two solid facts stood
out, hard and cold ; one, that he was the author of the
prospectus, another that he, in the person of his native
creditor, had received a round sum as one of the vendors
of the property. He had had no idea of cheating any one.
In his easy-going way he had believed in the scheme,
and in Palaveram's figures. He had made sure that all

CHAP.

would go right. Now, however, all was going wrong,
and Ambrose found himself confronted with a set of
angry men, vexed at their own folly in having lost their
money, and looking about, with no nice discrimination,
for the guilty person, on whom vengeance might be
wreaked. Philip was at a loss for a new expedient to
obviate, or, at any rate, to postpone the menaced catastrophe.
The old sources of supply were quite dried up.
His native friends were making him feel in a hundred
little ways that they understood his position, and appreciated
its disagreeable aspects. Palaveram still fawned
and smiled and professed eternal devotion to his patron's
interests; but there was in his manner something dictatorial,
insolent, menacing. His abject submissiveness
barely cloaked a scornful mood and an unsparing purpose.
He could ruin Philip any day he pleased, and
he would so please, Philip knew, on the day when, carefully
weighing the cost on either side, he resolved that,
on the whole, it would pay him best to wait no longer.
In the meantime he was watching, with keen, hungry
eyes, how matters went, and was becoming daily more
anxious to have his capital safe back in his stronghold.
He gave Philip to understand, with a directness which
it was no longer possible to evade, that the repayment

of his loan, of a portion of it, at any rate, must no
longer be delayed.

I have obligations to meet,' he said ; ' I am a poor
man ; I shall be ruined. Your Highness will be the
cause ; you must prevent it ; if not, I shall be driven
to desperate expedients.'

Don't talk in that way,' said Philip, to whom interviews
of this order were the black moments of existence;
'every one knows that you have been rolling up
lakhs of rupees for years past, and hold the market in
your hand. My debt to you is a flea-bite.'

To your Highness, no doubt, it would be,' said the
money-lender ; ' all the more reason that it should be
repaid when your humble servant happens to want it.
I have always been surprised at your caring to borrow
on the terms on which it suits a humble person like
myself to lend. Money is scarce amongst us poor folks;
my current rate is, you know, eighteen per cent. A
debt grows fast. Yours is a large and old standing
one. Anyhow I am in need of my money.'

The evil moment had come, and Ambrose stood at
bay. He knew his opponent's meaning only too well :
the day of grace had closed.

'You can do what you please,' he said; 'you know

perfectly well that your money is safe, and that nothing
can endanger it but your own violence and precipitancy


But I am in an emergency,' said the other. ' God
knows, I don't know which way to turn. I have obligations
to meet.'

Nonsense !' cried Philip ; ' you know as well as I do
that it is false, and, at any rate, I can do nothing. That
cursed company of yours '

Of mine V cried the money-lender ; ' your Highness
had far better means of knowing about it than I ; and
you knew more ; you had more to do with starting it.
"Who got the concession ? Who wrote the Prospectus ?'

Philip turned pale in spite of himself. He had never
realised till now that he might have to stand the chief
brunt of the storm which was to break upon the promoters.
The prospect was appalling. His courage rose
to the occasion.

'Don't try to bully or frighten me, sir,' he said;
what is it you want ? '

My money,' said the native, with a laconic stubbornness.


'And that,' said Ambrose, ' I have told you, I cannot,
at the moment, pay you.'

It is unfortunate,' said the other ; ' your Highness's
note of hand must suffice. I must make shift to do the
best I can with that ;' and forthwith Palaveram produced
a neat piece of stamped paper, on which the sum
total of Philip's indebtedness up to date was inscribed,
and a promise to pay it on demand to bearer, together
with interest meanwhile at eighteen per cent.

Philip hated above everything being brought to book,
and this, of all bringings-to-book, was the most hateful,
but there was no escape. The total had swelled to
inordinate proportions. In his vexation he forgot to be
polite.

'Good God!' he cried, 'you do not mean to tell me
that you claim all this. It is monstrous.'

Your Highness,' said the native — calm as fate itself
' can do the sum for yourself — it is an affair of arithmetic.
If you will do me the favour to peruse this
account and point out any error, I shall feel obliged.'

Ambrose knew perfectly that the account would be
accurate to a farthing; but his temper was hopelessly
upset.

'There,' he said, as he wrote his name across the
hateful document — ' take it and be damned.'

At your Highness's pleasure,' said his imperturbable

visitor, as he composedly dried the writing and restored
the paper to his pocket-book ; ' I may take my leave V
and so the Chetty bowed himself out.

Then, as troubles of this sort always march, not
alone but in battalions, before Philip's equanimity had
recovered from the shock of his disagreeable interview,
there came a communication from the Board of Directors
in England to say that, with a view to defraying the
costs of winding up the company, all arrears on calls
must be paid up forthwith, and a further call be made
on all shares not paid in full. Defaulters should be
sued at once. Philip's obligations, in both respects,
were pretty heavy ; and, heavy or light, he was utterly
without the means of meeting them. At the same time
delay was no longer possible. He racked his brains,
and at last, in his despair, he bethought him of the
expedient of having recourse to the English millionaire.
Repulsive as the idea was at first, Philip gradually
accustomed himself to think of it as necessary and
feasible. He had become great friends with Brownlow,
and had spent many hours working with him over the
plans of the railway. Brownlow had been pleased
with his quickness, resource, good humour, and good
sense.

You have been of great use to me he had said to
him on one occasion, 'and I am very much obliged.
You must tell me if ever I can be of use to you.' Nor
was this the only ground of Philip's hope. Brownlow
evidently shared Chichele's admiration of Camilla, and
lost no opportunity of being polite to her. Camilla,
too, had been interested in Brownlow, the only man of
business she had ever known. She had been impressed
with his vigorous, fertile, suggestive mind — his breadth
of view, his practical, courageous way of looking at
things, his varied experience. The two had often fallen
to each other's lot for the afternoon ride, and both had
been well content with the arrangement. Between
Camilla and Lady Miranda the warmest friendship had,
it was obvious, been established. Was there anything
wrong or dishonourable, Philip asked himself, in applying
to a friend such as Brownlow, who happened to
have an indefinite supply of ready money at his disposal,
to help him out of a scrape, into which any man
misjht fall, through no fault of his, and which made a
little money-help for the moment indispensable ? Philip
assured himself that there was not; yet he disliked
and even dreaded the process of putting his design into
actual execution. Once or twice, as he sat smoking

with Brownlow, the occasion for doing so seemed to
have arrived, and Philip had nerved himself for the
task ; but he had been unable to screw his courage to
the sticking point, and had ignominiously deferred the
disagreeable effort. ' That which we would, we should
do while we would,' and Philip more and more regretted
that he had not accomplished performance, while he
was in the first flush of satisfaction with the new idea.
At last in desperation he forced himself to speak.

I am going,' he said, ' to take advantage of your
offer to help me sooner than you can have expected —
sooner than I expected a week or two ago. I have got
into a money trouble about a wretched company which
I was fool enough to touch, and which has gone all to
pieces. I am called upon to pay up a large sum immediately.
If I do not, I shall be disgraced, and, I
suppose, lose my appointment. I am certain I can
arrange for it within the next few months, and meantime,
I can pledge an insurance policy on my life. Will
you lend me £1000? It will be the greatest favour you
could do me.'

Brownlow asked two or three questions which gave
Philip the sensation of flooding him. and his affairs with
remorseless light, and putting his predicament more

clearly, and, at the same time, more disagreeably than
he would have thought possible. He was in no position,
however, to decline interrogation, and his confession
was frank and full. Brownlow gave a long whistle,
and began striding up and down the room, as he did
when specially excited.

'You are in a deuce of a mess,' he said, halting
opposite Phil in the course of one of his promenades,
and confronting him with a scrutinising; look which
seemed to its victim to go through and through him.

1 know,' said Philip ; ' that is why I am asking you
to help me.'

Well,' said Brownlow, ' I must think about it : I
wil tel you tomorrow.' In the meantime, as he
usually did when events became puzzling, he consulted
his wife.

'I have had the most extraordinary request from
Philip Ambrose,' he told her ; ' what do you think ?
The loan of £1000. He has got himself hopelessly
embarrassed. He is a weak, blundering, confused
fellow, not too scrupulous, easily misled and sure to
come to grief. The worst of it is that he says that his
present trouble, if he cannot get out of it, will lose him
his appointment, and ruin his career.'

And Camilla ? ' cried Lady Miranda, springing up
with consternation written on her bloodless face.

'Ay said her husband, 'there is the rub, Miranda,
is it not ? It is a bad business. What right
on earth has a man in Ambrose's position to be
dabbling in companies and running into debt? It is
inexcusable.'

Of course,' said Lady Miranda, ' but that will not
rescue Camilla. What just we do ? '

It was at moments like this that Brownlow always
found his wife completely irresistible; and on the
present occasion he felt little inclined for resistance.
He sat silent now, for a few seconds, watching with
delight the childlike loveliness of her face, saddened
now by anxiety for her friend, and quickened by a
strong impulse of sympathy into that higher beauty
which beautiful souls alone possess.

What must we do, Miranda ? ' he said at last ;
why, rescue her and him too, if you wish it : but it
will be no good. He is a bad horse, and will fall at
the next fence, if we get him over this one.'

You are the best and dearest and kindest husband
in the world!' cried Miranda, with an embrace that
Brownlow, it may be believed, thought cheap at a

thousand pounds ; ' it would be heartbreaking to leave
Camilla in trouble, would it not ? '

She has trouble before her, poor woman, I am
afraid,' said Brownlow ; ' it is something that we can
stave it off for the present.'

The next morning Ambrose got his cheque and
Brownlow the policy of insurance.

Of course you are quite free to pledge it ! ' he said,
with one of his disagreeably scrutinising looks as he
took the document.

Of course,' said Philip, ' and I can never thank you
enough.'

So Philip went away with his £1000 and a heavy
heart. The necessity of the moment had been met;
but at what a cost, and what further troubles remained
behind !

How was he to raise funds to repay Brownlow?
How was he to arrange with his native creditors?
How wipe himself clean of the contamination of this
hateful company ? There was another horrid reflection,
moreover, in connection with Brownlow's debt, namely,
that, though the insurance policy was his, in one sense,
he had, he knew, no right to pledge it. Before his
marriage he had promised Sir Marmaduke to insure his

life. He had put off doing so too long, but lie had
done it at last : no legal obligation, so far as the policy
showed, restrained him from making temporary use of
it : none the less it was wrong. Ambrose's conscience
smote him when he thought that it was really Camilla's
property that he was pledging. He was breaking faith
with Sir Marmaduke ; he was defrauding his wife ; he
had told Brownlow, to all intents and purposes, a lie ;
but it was necessary.

To what horrid straits do the emergencies of life
conduct one, and what acute moral discomfort do they
entail ! Ambrose felt that Fortune, as usual, was
treating him with undeserved harshness.

Meanwhile he got a few days' leave, and pleading
an excuse to his wife, the lameness of which warned
Camilla against further inquiry, went off to Windipatam
to see what his personal presence could do towards
bringing the crisis within supportable limits.

CAMILLA IX TROUBLE

There is a forsaking which still sits at the same board and lies on
the same couch with the forsaken soul, withering it more by
unloving proximity. '

When, a few mornings afterwards, Lady Miranda went
to pay her accustomed visit to Camilla, she found her
in the depths of low spirits. The fact was that things
had being going badly with Camilla, and Philip's departure
— justified by a transparently false pretext — had
produced a sort of crisis. She knew nothing about his
journey except that the true cause was, for some
reason, concealed from her. A woman's natural
jealousy suggested what the cause might be. Camilla
was shocked to find how easy it was to her to believe
that she had reason to be jealous. At one time she
would have scouted the idea as a degradation. Now,
her husband had accustomed her to the idea of a

possible infidelity, — an infidelity scarcely the less grievous,
because it would not, probably, go farther than
homage paid lightly at the shrine of whoever happened
to be the favourite of the moment. But to Camilla's
serious, devoted nature, her husband's butterfly mood
of hovering over every flower whose beauty caught his
eye seemed a sort of profanation of the very idea of
love. It shocked her moral fastidiousness to the core.
It filled her with a horror, half sad, half - contemptuous.
It was a wrong and humiliation at the precise
point of one's being, where nerves are most sensitive,
where love feels and fears the most, where tenderness
shudders at the slightest unsympathetic touch.
Jealousy in such a woman's mind does not stimulate
affection : more probably it strikes a mortal wound.
Camilla was too proud to say a word — too conscious,
perhaps, how useless, on such a subject, any spoken
word must be. None the less this side of her husband's
character had been a constant grievance — had helped,
more perhaps than anything, to the discovery that they
were fatally estranged in taste, feeling, and the theory
of life. And now things had come to a critical point.
Philip had gone away with a falsehood on his lips — for
what, for whom ?

CAMILLA m Trouble 177

All a woman's fear — all a woman's jealousy, sprang
to life in Camilla's mind, as little to be ignored as the
flame, kindled among congenial materials, which glows
and mounts, spreads and rages more fiercely as each
new vantage point is carried. Camilla was more
utterly wretched than ever in her life before. She had
loved her husband ; she loved him still ; but each new
step in life with him seemed only to bring her upon
something that was unlovable. Lady Miranda saw at
once that Camilla was perturbed.

Something is the matter ! ' she said, not dropping
her friend's hand ; ' why do you look like that ? '

'Nothing is the matter!' said Camilla, ' except the
things which are always the matter, and which have to be
endured as best one can. But did I look solemn ? It was
an accident. The truth is that I have many anxieties.'

I know,' said Lady Miranda ; ' well, the money ones
are at an end, I hope ? '

The money ones ! ' cried Camilla in astonishment ;
what do you mean ? Pray, tell me.'

Lady Miranda perceived her mistake, but too late to
retract it. An explanation was inevitable.

Did you not know ? ' she said ; ' I am afraid I
ought not to have spoken.'

VOL. IL N

Indeed, indeed, you ought said the other, bitterly ;
tell me everything. You will do me good. To tell
the truth, I have been making myself miserable about
my husband. Something is being hidden from me, and
I am frightened. It will be a relief to know the truth :
tell me what anxieties you mean ? '

I have got into the most dreadful scrape I can see,'
said Lady Miranda ; ' but it had not occurred to me that
you might not have heard of it.'

Only tell me,' said Camilla ; ' you little know what
a comfort it will be to me.'

I have alarmed you for nothing, dear Camilla,' her
visitor said; 'it was nothing of the least importance.
Your husband happened to be in want of a little help
in the way of money. George was delighted to have
it at command, and to be able to lend it to him without
inconvenience. It is one of the pleasures of his being
so absurdly rich that he is able to do such things
for his friends; and he constantly does them. He
happened to tell me, and I, chatterton as I am, have
made mischief, I see, in telling you. Let us consider it
unsaid and forget all about it.'

It was in vain that Lady Miranda tried to make
limit of the matter. Her own heart told her that it

was not to be made light of ; and, if it had not told
her, Camilla's grave look would have convinced her
that the secret, which she had allowed to escape, was a
serious one.

I fear that I have hurt you, dear,' she said, laying
her hand kindly on Miranda's, and looking at her with
inquiring, tender eyes ; ' tell me that I have not.'

You could never hurt me,' said Camilla ; ' but there
are things in life that hurt one more perhaps than they
should. As to this trouble, I should have learnt it
sooner or later in any case. Philip went off in such a
hurry that I suppose he had no time to tell me. Do
you know why he has gone ? '

About the company, I suppose,' said Lady Miranda.

The company ? ' said Camilla with a blank look,
and more than ever in the dark. ' What company is
that ? '

Lady Miranda told her what she knew, and Camilla's
face grew graver and more anxious as each new detail
came to light. There had been a great deal that was
disagreeable in the papers about the Muddapollium
Mines. Some high officials were hinted at as responsible
for the ill-considered project, the floating of the
company and the loss which the public had sustained.

It had never occurred to Camilla that her husband could
be personally concerned. Now the horrid possibility —
probability — near at hand — was confronting her. For
the first time in her life Camilla found herself face to
face with danger, trouble, and humiliation. She got up
without a word and walked to the window, and stood
there, looking out at the clouds that were chasing each
other across the mountain's brow in front. It was all that
she could do to avoid a complete breakdown. Her heart
was beating wildly. Lady Miranda followed her, and was
shocked to see her bloodless cheek and air of despair.

Do not look like that, you dearest creature ! ' she
said, as she led Camilla back to the sofa ; ' nothing
that has happened can be bad enough for that.'

'Can it not ? ' said the other ; ' I wish I could be
sure of that. Has it ever happened to you. Lady
Miranda, to feel degraded ? '

Where is the degradation ? ' cried Lady Miranda.
'Why should not one's friends help one? George is
continually doing that sort of thing for one friend or
another. Besides, there is really nothing in what he
has done for your husband — not even a risk — for Mr.
Ambrose has given him a policy, or something, by way
of security.'

A policy ? ' asked Camilla, feeling as if she was
sinking from one depth to another.

Yes,' said Lady Miranda ; ' a policy of insurance.
It was lying on my husband's table this morning, and
he told me what it was. It makes the debt quite safe.'

That is a comfort at any rate,' said Camilla.

She understood, however, what her husband had
done, and finally dethroned him. This was the last
touch. His deposition was complete. He had concealed
everything from her. He had mistrusted her,
deceived her, defrauded her. He had brought her close
to dishonour. This was the end of her aspirations fora
noble life — her dream of living above the ordinary
level of human infirmity and meanness — her cravings
for an ideal existence whose aims should be lofty, whose
motives pure and noble, and in which the perfect confidence
of a happy marriage should be merely one item
in the general total of perfection. All the fair edifice
lay crumbling in the dust — hopelessly, irremediably
shattered. The first pang of repugnance and indignation
was quickened by a dreadful suspicion that
she had unwittingly been her husband's tool and had
assisted in his plan. She had become very intimate
with Brownlow. His liking; for her had been undisguised.

She had been pleased with it, and had liked
him in return. The two had become great friends. It
had occurred to Camilla sometimes that her husband
greatly approved of this friendship, and had seemed to
encourage her into greater intimacy. She had not been
able to understand it. Now she understood it, and the
thought was full of horror. She sat by herself when
Lady Miranda had left her, blushing for very shame.
Again and again the hot tears came rushing to her eyes.
A chill despair had taken possession of her soul. What
more had life to give her ? The very sanctuary of her
love had been desecrated. The place where she had
garnered up her heart, what could it be to her hereafter
but a dreadful void, peopled only by disappointment
and despair. How could she ever bear to meet the
guilty one again ?

THE fakir's Rock

'Every sound is sweet — -
Maniacs of rivulets hurrying through the lawn,
The voice of doves in immemorial elms,
And murmuring of innumerable bees.'

One of the entertainments which figured in Mrs.
Paragon's programme for the party during their sojourn
at the High Ranges, was an expedition to a neighbouring
waterfall, which the few who had seen it talked
about with rapture. They were very few, however,
for it was as nearly as possible being unapproachable.
Even from Chichele's camp it involved an early start,
a long ride by precipitous mountain paths, and a great
deal of the commissariat management, which only the
skilled proficient in camp-life can venture to attempt.
The natives of India find it difficult to understand the
pleasure which Englishmen derive from carrying their

women and their food into Nature's wildest haunts, and
extemporising a banquet on the tops of mountains, the
edges of precipices, or in solemn forest solitudes, where
nothing but acorns and fresh water can be obtained,
for love or money, within a hundred miles. They calla
picnic the 'madman's feast,' and regard it as one
more exhibition of the unfathomable eccentricity of
the Sahibs, whom Fate has decreed to be their rulers.
If madness it were on this occasion, it was madness
with a method in it — for Mrs. Paragon's prevision had
secured that all should go smoothly, and that when
the party arrived, tired and hot, at the foot of the falls,
they should find the servants awaiting them and preparations
well advanced for an excellent repast on the
green sward beneath a large banian tree which towered
majestic above the surrounding forest, and, with its
wilderness of descending branches, seemed more like a
small natural cathedral than a tree.

Coerulean patriotism may justly be proud of this
enchanting spot. You clamber along through a dense,
primeval jungle, where an almost imperceptible path is
all the impression that human hands and feet have
achieved upon Nature's wildness. In every direction
you see nothing but infinite depths of forest, and catch



glimpses now and then of the blue atmosphere overhead
through the tangled masses of foliage. The world
is far, far away ; the air is alive with the multitudinous
murmur of forest life. The soil yields with noiseless
softness beneath the tread, the debris of a thousand
past, autumnal falls : every cranny is crowded with
sweet sylvan growth, moss or flower or tumbling
creeper; a gentle breeze, unfelt below, is stirring the
summits of the loftier trees with a peaceful, dreamy
murmur. It is the very sanctuary of Nature's great
temple. All of a sudden the traveller emerges at the
foot of a stupendous face of granite. Far overhead a
tolerable river dashes over its edge into the void, loses
itself in feathery spray, and forms again in a hundred
cascades on the wild rocks below. A grand roar in the
air thunders above all the gentle whispers of the forest.
Everywhere the ground is alive with little rivulets
which, none the worse for their late adventure, are
rippling peacefully down the gorge, amidst the rocks
and ferns. A little on one side a huge boulder had
fallen, ages ago, so as to form a natural cave; and here a
famous Fakir passes his dreamy existence, performs his
simple rites, and levies an easy toll on the passer-by,
whom piety or prudence constrains to improve his

chances of getting his bullocks safely through the
valley by a timely offering to the local deity. A rude
gong hangs in front of his abode, whose tones ring out,
now and again, amid the hurlyburly of the descending
waters; a little flag flutters above a humble shrine,
where scattered leaves and flowers attest the recent
presence of some rustic devotee : close by some smouldering
embers tell of the recluse's simple repast. Behind
are the relics of a Buddhist temple and monastery —
not ruins, for they were cut in solid rock ; and Nature,
though she has well-nigh buried them under masses of
superincumbent foliage, has still, through the long
centuries, failed to efface shrine, dormitory, refectory,
and monastic cell. Still the carved roof and nicely
chiselled image tell of great Buddha's myth, and of
long vanished generations of pious workers who toiled
and prayed and lived a saintly life in this delicious
retreat.

Far away across the valley lay Chichele's little camp,
and the tents, clustering like a flock of white pigeons on
the mountain side.

What a place to run excursion trains to ! ' cried
Brownlow, as he turned the edge of his morning's thirst
with a beaker of iced soda-water ; * my dear Chichele,

this waterfall is worth two per cent on your capital, by
itself, and I am almost certain I see a lot of copper about.'

Copper and two per cent ! ' cried Miranda, running
up and putting her hand to her husband's mouth ;
really, George, you are incorrigible. Listen, listen to
the water-nymphs calling to you from their pretty
nooks. What a heavenly spot it is ! How I wish
Camilla could have come.'

Camilla had pleaded fatigue, and Lady Miranda,
who knew something of the state of the case, had
managed that she should not be pressed. Chichele,
always quick to catch at other people's wishes, was
easily made to understand that Camilla was not in a
mood to join in a holiday excursion. She was longing,
above everything, for solitude ; nothing seemed to her,
just then, less possible of achievement than a day of
pleasure spent in public. Chichele, with many lamentations,
was constrained to acquiesce. ' It is a pity,' he
said ; ' because Ambrose is to meet us there. I telegraphed
to him yesterday to come up that way on
purpose, and to join us tomorrow at the Falls. I
thought that his wife would like it.'

Lady Miranda had told Camilla of this ; but found
her firmer than ever. 'Please, please get me excused

Camilla had said, pressing her friend's hand.
Lady Miranda had fully understood her mission,
and faithfully performed it. Camilla had been left in
peace.

The party came to a halt under the banian tree, and
were soon resting in its welcome shade. Presently
Ambrose emerged from the forest on the other side of
the glen, and in another minute had joined them. He
had been riding since early dawn, and looked all the
better, Lady Miranda thought, for being several degrees
less carefully adorned than usual. He was greeted with
acclamations as he rode up. ' And Camilla ? ' he said to
Lady Miranda as he shook hands with her.

His face fell when he learnt that his wife was not
of the party. ' Is she not well V he said, 'I think I had
better go on to her at once.'

It is only a headache,' said Lady Miranda ; ' she
will be better for a day of perfect quiet.'

No, Ambrose,' said Chichele, ' you must wait awhile;
your ponies must be dead beat ; moreover, I want you
to show Mr. Brownlow the way up to the top of the
Falls after lunch. It is too much of a climb for me.'

Yes,' said Mr. Brownlow ; ' will you be my guide,
Ambrose?'

Philip smothered his disappointment, and accepted
the proffered task with a polite show of alacrity. While
they were waiting, he carried off Lady Miranda for a
stroll to the Buddhist cave, and immediately began to
be confidential. 'You and Mr. Brownlow,' he said,
have been good friends to me in my time of need ; I
can never forget that or the debt of gratitude I owe
you. Now, I must tell you what good news I found
awaiting me at Windipatam. You know what a deplorable
report there was of our gold-mine. I could not
understand it, for our reports were quite the other way.
Well, it seems ours were nearer the mark of the two ;
for a great mining firm in England has sent out someone
on its own account, and thinks well enough of the
affair to buy it. All is now settled ; we are to get our
purchase-money back, and something to boot. I shall
be able to repay the money part of Mr. Brownlow's
loan in a fortnight ; the other part, the kindness, can
never be repaid.'

I am so very, very pleased,' Lady Miranda said, with
great cordiality. Phil seemed in such a nice mood
and so inclined to be confidential that she thought
the moment opportune for a little good advice. ' I
am delighted to hear of your good luck,' she said.

but it is good luck, all the same ; is it not ? just as if
you had won it at a roulette table at Monte Carlo.
Would it not be wise, Mr. Ambrose, for a man placed as
you are, to keep out of the reach of luck ? Suppose it
had turned out the other way. Think of what your
wife would feel about it.'

Ambrose's nature always responded at once to the
monitions of a charming woman who wished to do him
good. ' I know,' he said ; ' you think I need a lecture.
But I have made a vow, and recorded it in my yesterday's
letter to Camilla, never to speculate again. I mayas
well make my confession complete, Lady Miranda. I
have been a fool in times past ; but the truth is that I
was desperately anxious to set myself right about money,
and to save Camilla annoyance. She took our debts to
heart. Some of us are so made, you know, that it costs
us no pang to be a little behindhand with our bills ; we
recognise it as our normal plight, and grow accustomed
to it. But it distressed her, and then it began to distress
me. Now, I am glad to say, it is all over, and I have
promised her to be a reformed character. Mr. Brownlow
and you have helped greatly to the reformation.'

Thank you, Mr. Ambrose,' Lady Miranda answered,
for being so frank ; you have taken a great load from

my spirits. To tell the truth, I was rather unhappy
about you ; I love your wife dearly, and should grieve
at any incompleteness in her happiness.'

Ah, but you shall see ! ' said Philip. ' These horrid
money troubles have raised a sort of cloud between us.
I could not bear to tell her. It would only have given
her pain. But the fact of a secret is fatal, all the same.
Now all is clear again, and I mean to devote myself to
making her happy, and to trying to deserve her. What
else ought the husband of such a wife to think about ?
It is an odd thing, do you know ; Nature tells us secrets
about ourselves at curious moments. As I rode up
the mountain this morning in the silent, solemn dawn,
I got into a reverie, thinking over my past life and the
time of my courtship ; and there came upon me a sort
of revelation about Camilla. I never knew till that
moment how dearly I loved her. Now I feel a sort of
passionate desire to be with her again, and tell her all,
and to be forgiven. Please God she may have less in
future to forgive.'

Lady Miranda had never liked Philip till now. His
unworthiness to be Camilla's husband had been with
her a sort of acknowledged grievance, which had to be
borne as best it might. Now she began to relent, and

to think that Camilla's chance of happiness was not,
perhaps, desperate after all.

'You have made me very happy she said; 'you
must always think of my husband and me as your
warm friends.'

Then came the sound of voices shouting across the
stream. ' Come to luncheon, good people ! ' cried
Chichele ; and to lunch, accordingly, they went ; and
then Mrs. Paragon's efficiency as mistress of the commissariat
became apparent in a repast which their long
morning's ride inclined all the party to appreciate as it
deserved ; all the more, perhaps, because, as was her
wont on such occasions, the fair mistress of the feast,
having set everything in perfect trim, retired gracefully
to the background, and now figured merely as an ornamental
ingredient in the party, and as the member of
it who enjoyed it most heartily.

Every one, however, felt the inspiring influence of
the occasion and the place. How not to enjoy existence
when nature is all lovely around one, and the air full of
sweet, slumberous sounds, and pleasant men and women
are gathered to do honour to a sylvan feast ?

Philip, all the happier for having disburthened himself
to Lady Miranda, was especially joyous. ' This is

THE fakir's rock 193

the way to live ! ' he cried ; ' quite worthy of the forest
of Ardennes :

' ' This our life, exempt from public haunt,

Finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks, —
Sermons in stones " '

No,' said Chichele ; ' I bar all sermons except those
preached by Mrs. Paragon or the flowers.'

'And the sermon that the flowers preach,' cried
Philip, ' is not to be too theological !

"Take an example from the roses,
They live on air and light and dew ;
They do not trouble about Moses,
Then why, in Heaven's name, should you ? " '

But flowers,' Masterly said, ' have a prescriptive
right to take life lightly, and not to trouble their heads
about anything.'

Not even about their dresses,' said Mrs. Paragon ;
how can indifference farther ^o ? '

But it is not true, all the same,' said Chichele ;
my roses, I know, want a deal of solid, dirty food, and
would trouble their pretty heads very much if they
had not plenty of it, besides light, air, and dew and
elegant diet of that sort. As for not caries for life,
depend on it, everybody and everything cares for it
intensely.'

VOL. II.

'To be sure,' .said Brownlow, extracting a small
invader from his plate. ' This poor beetle, who has just
taken a header into my soup, would, no doubt, feel a
natural pang about dying as great as any giant's. He
has tried civilisation, in the form of clear mulligatawny,
and, I suspect, does not like it. He shall return to
nature, — damper, and no doubt sadder, for his morning's
experience.'

Do you remember,' said Masterly, ' the poor fellow
whom Browning draws, with wandering, fluttering
thoughts and eyes already dim with death, — his mind
all in a jumble between the row of medicine vials on
the table's edge and his past recollections, — yet to
whose parched lips the sweet cup of life's joys seemed
sweet as ever ?

"What is he buzzing in my ears,
Now that I come to die ?
Do I view the world as a vale of tears ?
Ah, Reverend Sir, not I ! "

'The row of bottles grows a lane, — the sweetest,
dearest, most romantic ever known ; one of them is the
house, where, in the top story, the dear one lived :

' ' She left the attic there —
By the rim of the bottle labelled ' Ether'—
And stole from stair to stair ;

And stood by the rose-wreathed gate — Alas !
We loved, Sir — used to meet :
How sad and bad and mad it was :
But then, how it was sweet." '

'Ah!' said Chichele, 'that bottle labelled " Ether "
which awaits us all.'

*But then said Philip, as he got up, 'meanwhile
how it is sweet ! Life, in a Coerulean forest at any rate,
is a delicious affair, say what people will ! Come, Mr.
Brownlow, if you are ready, let us start on our expedition.'


He looked the very impersonation of enjoyment :
the cloud of anxiety which had often of late darkened
his brow had passed away. There was nothing there
now but a triumphant sense of health, hope, high spirits,
and a firm grasp on the joys of existence. He was the
fitting human complement to a scene where all things
around seemed revelling in a banquet of natural
delights.

And now,' said Chichele, as coffee and cigars made
their appearance, 'we have arrived at the critical
moment of all picnics. How on earth are we to get
through the rest of the day? I wish Masterly had
brought a few of his office-boxes.'

'Please do not take Mr. Masterly!' cried Lady Miranda

; ' he and I are going to botanist. This valley is
a little paradise of wildflowers.'

'And I,' said Mrs. Paragon, 'am going to make a
sketch of this lovely glade, and to think over all the
wise things I have learnt this morning.'

'Not to trouble about Moses, I hope,' said Philip.
Meanwhile Mr. Brownlow and I are going to worship
Nature on the heights. There is a lovely pool up there,
where we can have a bathe, sir, if you like.'

You may take my new pony, Ambrose,' Mr. Chichele
said ; ' it will do him good to have an extra march.
He gets too little work, and is full of nonsense. For
myself, politeness constrains me to stay behind and
mend Mrs. Paragon's pencils.'

THE BROKEN THREAD

For we are all like swimmers in the sea,
Poised on the top of a huge wave of fate,
"Which hangs uncertain to which side to fall :
And whether it will heave us up to land,
Or whether it will roll us out to sea, —
Back, out to sea, to the dark waves of death, —
"We know not, and no search will make us know :
Only the event will teach us in its hour. '

Camilla, as she watched the little cavalcade start on
the expedition, and go winding up the valley side, was
conscious of a great relief. She was in that state of
nervous distress in which the common intercourse of
life — the very proximity of life's ordinary companions
becomes a burthen too grievous to be borne. The
camp-life — spent necessarily for the most part in public,
and half in picnic fashion — had tried her more than she
was aware till she experienced the comfort of its temporary
cessation — the exquisite prospect of a day of

solitude. Even Lady Miranda's visits had been a
doubtful pleasure, for Camilla could not be open with
her. There were thoughts in her mind that could not
be whispered even to that sympathising ear. Camilla
almost shuddered to breathe them to herself: they
were dreadful, heartrending companions; but it was
something to be alone with them, to face them composedly,
even though with the composure of despair.

For Camilla was in a desperate mood. A question
was forcing itself upon her — the gravest, the most
momentous that a woman's fate can bring to her for
reply. Could she bear the burthen of her married life
any longer ? Could she go on with an existence which
was growing every day a more and more horrid mockery
a more dismal, degrading travesty of all that married
life should be — a more dreadful desecration of its
sanctities, a crueller disappointment of its hopes.

She sat by the flame of waning love and watched
it with eyes of terror, as it sank, flickered, sank again,
and threatened to expire. That sacred fire had been
life itself to her — had lit up her world with glory,
radiance, hope. Now it was sinking — dying ; the hearth
was growing cold and black — ashes and dust where once
had been the genial core of heat — the genial glow — the

living light. How would life seem when the fire had
finally gone out ?

There are people, no doubt, who make such discoveries,
and survive them. Cold, shallow, impassive
natures may bear the shock of such a revelation without
a mortal pang ; may rally from it and live on after it,
dully acquiescent in their doom. But to a nature like
Camilla's — ardent, tender, sympathetic — with much to
give and wanting much in return — such a discovery is
a deathblow. The sort of existence which is possible
after it can at best be but a wretched compromise, which
may serve to hide from the outer world the catastrophe
that has laid the home in ruins and stripped its altars
of their sacred fire, but which, none the less, means
desolation to the inmates. Could such an existence be
borne ? and, if not borne, how was it to be escaped ?
This was the problem which was taking possession of
Camilla's soul with an ever-increasing intensity, crowding
out every other subject from her thoughts. She was
smarting under a deep sense of disappointment, humiliation,
insult. Her tender, sacred gift of love had been
misprized, profaned by a rude, careless hand. Her
husband's facile levity had made her married life one
lonsj outrage. She had enshrined him in her heart, and

CHAP.

had worshipped him ardently, blindly — with the willing
blindness of a devotee, i^ow the illusion was destroyed ;
the cruel, bitter truth had forced itself upon her, and
would no longer be ignored. Her idol was revealed in
its true colours, no longer a possible object of adoration.
A woman, it has been said, always needs to rule beneficently
by making the joy of another soul ; but how, if
the other soul plays traitor to that kind sovereignty and
is bent on other joys than those which its gentle despot
is able or willing to afford ? Camilla was looking forward
now to her husband's return with absolute horror.
He had been faithless and cowardly — he had distrusted
her, deceived her, defrauded her. He had brought her
to dishonour, or near it ; he had broken all the dread
moral compacts which — human laws apart — bind the
souls of husband and wife in sacred union. He had
left her, with a lie on his lips, bent on some mission of
perfidy ; and he would come back — Camilla instinctively
knew — bright, courteous, caressing, with an air of pleasant,
easy gaiety, — with a smile — a traitor's smile — lighting
up his face, and expect to be the same to her as before, and
that she should be the same to him. This was more than
Camilla could endure or achieve. She could not bear it ;
but then, none the less, it seemed inevitable. Religion

custom — the law of God and man alike — her own
sense of right, the tradition of duty and honour, the
common feeling of society, barred her at every point,
and, at the first thought of resistance or escape, seemed
to rivet the chains which were weighing so heavily
upon her. They were cutting her sensitive and finely-strung
nature to the quick, but they must be worn.
Turn where she would, no ray of light broke the dreariness
of that sad horizon.

So Camilla sat through the still, exquisite hours, as
the long day waned from the mid-day glow to the stillness
of the afternoon. The valleys lay bathed in a
flood of softened light; the breeze was whispering
through the pine tops ; the shadows of the great fleecy
clouds swept across the mountain sides, and by their
noiseless motion seemed but to give a deeper intensity
to the stillness of the scene ; the kites, wheeling
high in air, threw their shadows, too, on the bright
ground below, and with their shrill scream broke, now
and again, the silence which, but for them, reigned unbroken
in this solemn solitude. Camilla had felt it a
relief at first to be alone ; but now a sense of loneliness
began to take possession of her. Why was it, she asked
herself, that she had been longing for solitude ? Why

was the sympathy of loving, tender hearts only an additional
distress? Because there are troubles which
isolate us from our species ; and Camilla's trouble was
one of them. Her burthen was one which no friendly
hand could lighten ; her cup of sorrow, of disappointment,
of despair could be touched by no other lip. ' The
heart knoweth its own bitterness :' the grim words forced
themselves now upon her with a dreary reality. Those
pangs, no doubt, are keenest which the sufferer dares
not reveal, and to which our best friend must remain a
stranger. So the iron was entering Camilla's tender
soul : she sank backward with a groan, and hid her
face as if to shut out a world that had become to her
only a torture-house ; ' Lord,' she cried, in bitterness
of spirit, ' have mercy upon me : I am in misery — my
strength falleth me.'

She started up, for a footstep fell upon her ear.
Some one was riding up to the camp by the path which
lay close beside the spot where she was sitting. She
turned to see who the newcomer was — one of the messengers,
no doubt, who brought Chichele his daily batch
of letters and papers, and seemed the one slight link
which bound them to the world that they had left below.

She turned and she saw that which made her heart
stand still. Was her mind wandering ? Was she the
victim, once more, of an illusion such as had disturbed
the first weeks of her married life ? Was it the phantom
of her troubled imagination, or was it the real Sinclair
who was now coming toward her ? No phantom,
Camilla speedily assured herself, but a living reality —
the man, of all others, whom she would, if asked beforehand,
have desired not to see, in this her hour of extremity
; and whom yet, now that he stood there, awaiting
her command, she felt powerless to turn away
powerless even to wish to do so.

His invasion of her solitude had been, it was evident,
completely accidental ; his surprise, when Camilla told
him that Chichele and the rest were not at the camp,
was obviously sincere. He had been sent for, he told
her, to come to see Mr. Chichele upon business, and,
he supposed, had arrived a day sooner than he was
expected.

Well,' he said, * if Mr. Chichele has gone holiday-making,
I must make holiday too. Fortune has been
kind to me for once. May I stay here with you
awhile?'

Camilla's first impulse had been to escape ; her next

to conceal from the intruder every symptom of the
trouble which was weighing upon her — a trouble in
which he was certain to feel so very special an interest ;
in which the occurrences of the voyage had given him
so good a right to be interested; in which, all the
more for that, Camilla revolted from the idea of allowing
him any part. There are wounds so sensitive that
the very approach of another's hand, however gentle,
gives an apprehension of agony; some troubles in
which the proffer of help seems an officious interference.
From any such meddling with her secret sorrow
Camilla shrank instinctively with aversion. But even
while Sinclair was speaking, this aversion began to give
way before a truer, juster, more natural sentiment.
There were several qualities in Sinclair which appealed
to what were just now Camilla's direst wants. His
strong, vehement, upright character invited confidence.
Intense as his passion might be, he would never, she
was certain, allow himself to abet her in departing, for
an instant, by a hair's-breadth, even in thought, from
that which he regarded as the highest standard of good
and right — far less would he tempt her to so depart.
Eather, at whatever sacrifice of less sacred considerations,
he would bid her stand fast at the post of duty,

and bear the worst that such steadfastness entailed.
Her honour, her vow, her spotless purity of soul were,
she was certain, as dear to him as to her. He had proposed
to her once that which she had rejected as wrong
and dishonourable ; but he was prompted by an honourable
passion, and he had spoken in the honest conviction
that he was acting as honour bade him. He had
been positive that he was right. Was it certain that
he had been wrong? There was then, at any rate,
room for an honest difference of opinion. There was
no such ambiguity now about Camilla's position ; there
could be no doubt, with honourable natures, what her
duty was, and there could, equally, be no doubt that
Sinclair would encourage her to do it — would insist on
her doing it.

This conviction made it possible to regard without
alarm another fact about Sinclair of which Camilla was
equally well assured. He loved her, she well knew,
with passionate earnestness. She had known it at first ;
she had known it ever since. honore the fact as she

o

might, — as, indeed, she had, — it had, none the less, a
firm place among her most absolute convictions. His
language, his manner, his look had been alike unmistakable,
and they had all told the same story. His

behaviour on the few occasions on which, since that
dreadful last interview on board ship, they had met, had
said the same thing in a manner which commanded her
regard by its chivalrous avoidance of anything that
could give her a shade of annoyance, could give scandal's
keen eye and busy tongue the barest semblance of
justification, or could seem to hint at the possibility of
reopening a forbidden topic. He had obeyed her injunction,
her unspoken wishes, with the intelligent
insight of devotion, — with delicacy of taste, with fine
accuracy of judgment, with the self-abnegation which is
the choicest ingredient of worship. But, above all, he was
true and he was thorough ; and truth aud thoroughness
seemed just then to Camilla the two transcendent merits in
the relations of human beings to one another. Be the cause
what it might, the feeling of vexation at an unexpected
disturbance of her solitude — heightened at first by the
thought that Sinclair should be the person to disturb it —
was speedily mastered by a sense that he was a friend,
whose allegiance was firm, whose care for her would
be wise and self restrained, whose devotion claimed
whatever recognition she could honourably make, and
who was sure to bring her help in an hour of direst
need.

Do come and sit down she said. ' You see I amin
want of company.'

'And so am 1/ said Sinclair, as lie took his seat
beside her ; ' I have been having a solitary ride and amin
a melancholy mood ; but wdiy are you not sith the
rest? You are not ill, I hope — but you are ill; your
looks say so ; I ought not to have come.'

'iso,' said Camilla, whose bloodless cheek was by
this time telling the tale of overwrought nerves and an
agitated mind ; ' I am not ill — not ill in body at least.
I wish you to stay. My own thoughts are very bad
company just now — perhaps you can help me to get rid
of them.'

Camilla saw the flash of intense interest which
lighted up Sinclair's face as she spoke, followed instantly
by the expression of self-restraint and self-repression,
which was habitual to him. There was comfort for her
in both. But there was another look which Camilla
could not refuse to see, and which, miserable as she was
on her own account, filled her soul with pity. Sinclair's
face showed symptoms of long-endured suffering ; its composure
bespoke less a courageous preparedness to meet the
unknown blows of fate than the wretched conviction
that the worst blow has fallen, — that life has no hope and

no keener misery than that which is, at the moment, endured.
The two looked at one another, and each read in
the other's face a tragic story, the full purport of which
it was only too easy to understand — a story of despair.

Camilla still struggled against a revelation. 'We
had many pleasant talks on board ship,' she said ; ' I
feel quite in the mood for one now. Talk to me, please,
as you used then.'

Sinclair perfectly understood the meaning of this
invitation. It meant that the unfortunate rupture of
their intimacy on the voyage to India was to be ignored,
and that their relations were to be taken up at the
earlier point when they were merely friends whose
society was mutually pleasant. The merits of their
estrangement were to be left undiscussed, undecided ;
but the mere fact of Camilla's readiness to renew their
intimacy implied that she was less confident than before
of the justice of her decision, and had, at any rate,
no wish to repeat the indignant terms in which it had
been expressed. They were to be friends as before : if
Sinclair had been wron^T, he was forgiven — if he had
been wronged, he was to exercise forgiveness. Between
such friends as they still were, it was unnecessary,
inexpedient, to consider who had been to blame. They

were to ignore all that was painful in the past : but
there was something, Sinclair felt, that — keep it out of
sicrht in act and lan^uacje as one would — could never
really be ignored. Camilla, too, was aware of a ^^ital
difference in their' relations. She knew that she held
this strong man's existence in her hand. Life was
heaven or hell to him according as she smiled or turned
away. And now she bade him pick up this thread of
their intercourse at the point where it had been broken
off, and be to her as he had been before. Camilla, if
she had had time to think, might have known that it
was an impossible request. She would have known,
too, that there was at work in the recesses of her conscience
a desire to make amends to a man whom, as she
now judged her conduct, she had treated with folly and
injustice. Sinclair had warned her that she would be
miserable in her married life : he now found her in the
climax of her misery. He had tried his best to save
her, had passionately implored her to let herder be
saved. She had turned a deaf ear to his warnings —
the silly ear of inexperience and fool hardihood. She
had rejected his offers of help and rushed blindly on
her fate. She had trampled on his proposal with the
vehement decisiveness due to a dishonour and a crime.

VOL. II. P

She had tried to forget it, to forget him, to banish him
and his unholy suggestions from the confines of her
thoughts : no distant outlying region of her mind had
been allowed to harbour a thought of him. And now
bitter experience had taught her the truth in a way
which could not be gainsaid. Pride whispered a monition
to conceal the humiliating reverse of all her hopes.
But pride, though a powerful factor in our lives, is not
always powerful enough to guide them wholly as it
would. Camilla's pride, at any rate, was hard pressed
by stronger impulses — her truer self — a generous
prompting to confess her mistake, to be just to the man
whom she had so fatally misjudged. The solitude of
her position was becoming too much for her to bear. She
had turned away in horror from the idea of sympathy ;
but she found now that she was longing for it at any
price. Her trouble, borne alone, was crushing her, and
the possibility, suddenly disclosed, of sharing it promised
a sort of exquisite relief.

Sinclair, though too wise to urQ-e an avowal, seemed,
with a fine instinct, to read her thoughts. He was a
person with whom it was in vain to try to deceive, even
to deceive oneself. His profound sincerity forced his
companion to be sincere. ' Tell me about yourself,'

I

he said ; ' that is the only interesting thing to talk
about.'

But,' said Camilla with a laugh, more dreary as it
seemed to her companion than many sighs, 'that is
Avhat I have been talking about to myself all the morning.
I do not find it edifying or interesting at all. Your
arrival, I hoped, would change the conversation.'

There is probably in the small vicissitudes of human
destiny no change in a man's lot so striking as when he
finds himself, after months of absence or enforced silence,
suddenly in the presence of a woman whom he passionately
loves, alone with her, and enjoined to speak.
Sinclair had ridden up the mountain that morning in a
more than ordinarily gloomy mood. His work-a-day
theory of dogged performance of duty being enough for
mortal wants, and all that mortals have a right to ask,
had completely broken down inter the strain of enjoyments
more delightful than any with which he had
reckoned, and wants more imperative than any which
he had till now experienced. His whole view of things
was altered. He found that he had been used to decry
the pleasant side of life simply because he knew not
how great its pleasures were. The distant and occasional
sight of Camilla when they had met in the ordinary

intercourse of society had been a constant incentive
alike to his passion and his regret. He had forced both
feelings down with a determined, unsparing hand ; but
he had vanquished neither, far less destroyed it. Both,
rather, had gathered secret force from the repression,
and they were now — he had been mournfully acknowledging
to himself as, through the long solitary hours,
he reviewed the position — his masters. Thus it was that
he judged human conduct — the forces which move it,
and the temptations that beset it — with a far different
eye, for he now knew how tremendous those forces are.
He realised that there are moral conflicts from which,
even if he emerges a victor, a man carries away with
Mm grievous wounds and scars, the signs of what the
victory has cost him. Sinclair had now, in a sense,
conquered himself; but the conquest had turned the
world into a desert to him ; it had left him hopeless,
joyless, motiveless. He had no intention of succumbing ;
but he understood how it is that many men succumb.
He had accepted the inevitable ; but he had accepted it
as the typical Mohammedan bends to the conqueror's
yoke — with silent curses, and the reservation, all the
more heartfelt for being unexpressed, that rebellion is
lawful the first moment that it becomes possible to

rebel. So he had gone on, in a sort of dumb, sinless
suffering; a previously acquired impetus still carried
him along ; but the mainspring of his existence seemed
broken — or, rather, it was unshipped and passive,
though as strong as ever, if only its bearing on his life
should be restored. And now, suddenly, Camilla had
restored it : she was appealing to him for help ; she
bade him forget all that had disturbed their relations ;
she asked for sympathy — for confidential intercourse.
Sinclair sat for an instant looking at her in silence.
There was a haggard, hungry look in his eyes, as of
a thirsty man at the sight of the stream to which
he may not put his famished lips. It was borne in
upon Camilla that, heavy as was her load of trouble,
there was some one in the world more wretched than
herself.

While he hesitated, Camilla spoke again : ' I should
like very much,' she said, ' to hear something about you.
You are one of the people for whom I have great hopes.
I have a conviction that you will do something with
your life — something worth doing. It is a rare lot : few
people try for it, or even wish for it — do they ? and of
those who wish, how few achieve.'

Achieve ? ' said Sinclair, with bitterness ; ' it sounds

ironical to human destiny to use such a word about
mankind. Respectable endurance is its highest flight.'

Well said Camilla, ' there are worse things than respectable
endurance — are there not ? It is a great achievement
to be respectable. But what has brought you here ?'

'A bad business,' said Sinclair, 'I am afraid. There
has been some horrid company floating, with all its
usual abominations about a gold-mine at MuddapoUium.
The bubble has burst ; all sorts of people are said to
be implicated ; there will be a scandal, and I am one
of the luckless victims whom Mr. Chichele has selected
to have the pleasant task of exploring it. Do not you
pity me now ? '

Implicated ? ' said Camilla, starting up with sudden
interest and disregarding the latter portion of her companion's
speech ; ' please tell me all you have heard
about the people. Is it known who they are ? '

Not in the least said Sinclair. ' All that is believed
about it is that some influential officials have been
pulling the strings — managing the Rajah, working the
Government, and so forth — and trafficking in shares,
which the stockbrokers at home have been playing some
nasty same with. What a business for a gentleman to
have to soil his fino-hers in handling; 1 '

Camilla's cup of misery had overflowed ; her powers
of endurance were exhausted ; her vital energies seemed
to be sinking ; she could do, she could endure no more.
She sat there cold, white, speechless. Before Sinclair's
words were fully spoken, he was aware that he had
unwittingly laid his finger on some sensitive nerve.
You must help me,' was all that Camilla could force
herself to say. ' You must save him.'

Help you ! ' cried Sinclair, by this time as much
alarmed as his companion ; ' you know that I would die
to do that ; but tell me what you mean.'

I mean said Camilla, whose stoicism had, for
the moment, completely deserted her, 'that I am
the most unfortunate woman in the world, and the
greatest failure. Everything with me has failed. I
had an intense desire to make my life something
especially good, bright, and noble, — better than the
common lot. The common ambitions of the world
would not satisfy me. I longed for happiness, and I
thought that I had found it. Xow what have I come
to? But you must help me. You must help my
husband. That is the greatest favour you could show
me. I know you are a friend, and I appeal to your
friendship. Do not think from what I said just now

that I have a word to say against him ; but he has been
unfortunate. We are embarrassed, as I daresay you
know. Philip takes things lightly, and slides easily
into positions which may be easily misunderstood in a
bad sense. You will clear it all up, and clear him, will
you not ? '

Whatever service I can do,' said Sinclair, ' is yours
already. I am what I was when I spoke to you onboard
ship. My feelings are unchanged. I care not for
life except for the chance of serving you.'

But I must tell you one thing,' said Camilla ; ' you
must never think that I have repented of my answer to
you or doubted that I was right. You do not doubt it
do you ? '

I doubt nothing that you tell me to believe,' said
Sinclair, who perhaps cherished privately some lingering
scepticism as to Philip's merits as a husband.

I have had great happiness,' said Camilla ; ' I have
been very happy; some clouds of trouble come to us all.
Did I say that I was unfortunate ? It was wrong of
me — ungrateful, weak. I gave him my heart; it is
wholly his. His troubles are mine.'

Sinclair never forgot that scene, as Camilla sat looking
blindly across the valley, her eyes full of tears, but

with heroism in her face ; the exquisite mountain range
opposite; the white cascade showing like a spray through
the still, blue atmosphere; the breeze whispering through
the pines; the children shouting to the cattle on the
hillside. Little did Camilla guess how destiny was, at
that very moment, shaping her future to a new and
unsuspected phase.

•' Look,' she said, as a horseman came galloping over
the crest of a neighbouring hill ; ' who is that coming
towards the camp ? Mr. Chichele, surely. Go, please,
and stop him. I want to be alone. If he asks for me,
tell him that I am coming in directly.'

Sinclair went at once upon his mission, and awaited
Michele's arrival ; but the message was not destined to
be delivered. Michele's horror-stricken face, as he
came up, forbade a word. He was labouring evidently
under some tremendous excitement. As he dismounted
Sinclair could see that his hand was shaking ; and his
voice, broken and tremulous, as he asked where Mrs.
Ambrose was, showed that some event of no ordinary
character was taxing his powers of self-restraint to the
utmost. He went away to her at once, and Sinclair sat
waiting in his tent, — sick at heart with the horrid
expectancy of impending disaster.

CHAP.

Chichele's appearance and manner as he approached
Camilla announced him a herald of misfortune before a
word was spoken. He took her gently by the hand ;
but seemed as if he could not force himself to speak.
There was a moment — an eternity — of awful suspense.
Camilla could do nothing but await the blow that she
felt certain was in the act of falling.

You are a brave woman,' Chichele said at last ; ' and
it needs a brave man to do what I have to do now.
Something awful has happened.'

Camilla by this time was as white as Chichele : her
heart was beating so violently that she could not have
spoken if she wished ; but she had no word to say ; she
could only wait, as a helpless victim looks up at the
comines blow. At last it fell. ' There has been a terrible

o

accident — to your husband.' Camilla heard no more ;
her nerves, long overstrained, gave way ; a sudden
darkness had gathered round her ; she was sinking —
sinking ; one dreadful cry Sinclair heard, as he sat, with
beating heart, in the silence of his tent. Then there
was a sound of hurrying feet, and in another moment he
was helping Chichele to carry Camilla, unconscious and
inanimate, to her tent.

Presently Lady Miranda and the rest arrived, and then

Sinclair learnt the dreadful story which mr. Cliieliele
had to tell. Ambrose had sone off with Mr. Brownlow
by the narrow mountain path which led to the top of
the gorge. At a turning of the road they had come
suddenly on some forest-folk, laden with huge burthens
of timber, resting in a shady recess by the hillside. One
of them had sprung up, as Ambrose turned the corner,
and had dislodged his load from its frail balance. It
fell with a crash almost at Ambrose's feet. His horse
gave a start, a plunge, and sprang across the path ; there
was a sudden scramble at the edge ; a wild cry as the
falling man saw the abyss beneath him. All had
happened too quickly for Brownlow to observe, far
less to be able to describe it. An hour later they had
clambered round by a side path, and found the deadman's
body lying, far below, with his horse beside
him.

It was evident that both must have been killed upon
the spot. Philip's face, as they laid him that evening
in his tent, showed no sign of violence. Never had
poor Phil Ambrose's handsome features worn a gentler
and more kindly expression. Meanwhile kind Stature
had shrouded Camilla in safe oblivion from the horrid
shock. Nor was it for many days that she learnt

the details of the tragedy which had made her a
widow.

Camilla's swoon was a long one. When she recovered
consciousness, Miranda was bending tenderly over her
with eyes full of pity; recollection began to revive;
she felt only a frightful pang, and sank again into
stupor.

IXYEXI Portus

Invent fortune, Spes ac Fortuna, valet,
Sat me ludistis.'

A SKILFUL analyst of human emotion has observed that
the rapidity with which ideas grow old in our memories
is in nicely adjusted proportion to their importance tous.
' Their apparent age,' he says, 'runs up miraculously,
like the value of diamonds, as they increase in magnitude.
A seat calamity, for instance, is as old as the
Trilobites an hour after it has happened. It stains
backward through all the leaves we have turned
over in the book of life, before its blot of tears or of
blood is dry on the page we are turning. For this we
seem to have lived ; it was foreshadowed in dreams that
we leaped out of in the cold sweat of terror; in the
dissolving views of dark day-visions : all omens pointed
to it : all paths led to it. After the tossing self-forgetfulness

of the first sleep that follows such an event, it
comes upon us afresh as a surprise at waking ; in a few
minutes it is old again — old as eternity.'

So Camilla found it with herself when, after a dark
period of prostration and obliviousness, body and mind
began to rally from the shock, and she once again
became sufficiently mistress of herself to review the
events of her life with something more than the dimly
conscious passivity of an invalid. She had regained
her composure, her fortitude, the proper balance of a
well-ordered nature. She seemed now to recognise that
the tragedy which had just befallen her had existed all
along in the predestined chronicle of her life. It was
the climax of her life, and it explained it. Head in the
light of it, many things about herself were clear that
Camilla had never been able to understand. From the
first it had been there ; it had been hourly drawing
nearer and nearer, creeping upon her while she, unaware
of its approach, was busy with dreams of joy —
the idle dreams of childhood — inexperienced in the
stern realities of human lot, incredulous of disaster.
The golden vision had faded, — faded and ended, at last,
in a ghastly awakening. The rosy summer sky had
cradled the comines thunderstorm, whose bolt had fallen

upon her. It lead dashed her scheme of life — her pretty
scheme, rich with hope aud confidence, embellished
with all the materials of enjoyment — to atoms ; there
was nothing but a blackened ruin. For a while she lay
crushed and stunned beneath the blow. Her task was
now to begin, with a soberer equanimity than heretofore,
with humble, reverent hands to build afresh a
more substantial fabric on a humbler scheme.

Carefully tended by Lady Miranda — tender, faithful,
and sympathetic nurse — Camilla reached England and
the roof where henceforward she would find her home.
She had felt a strong desire to go to her father-in-law,
and Mr. Ambrose had warmly responded to the wish.
The two were, in fact, longing above everything to be
together. Their souls, always in unison of taste and
feeling, were bound now by the bond of a common
sorrow, of which none but themselves knew the precise
lineaments or had tasted the full bitterness. Life had
been to each a disappointment, and the disappointment
of both had centred in the same person and culminated
in the same event. Their hearts were aching with the
same pang, and each found in the other's companionship
the best solace for their special trouble. Philip, withall
his shortcomings, had given a brightness to their

lives, of which the remembrance was very dear to both.
His confidences to Lady Miranda, uttered while the
hand of death was already closing upon him, were a
last message of love, repentance, reconciliation. They
robbed the dreadful story of a part — the cruellest part
of its bitterness. Father and wife could think of the
lost one now only with a tender regret — with the fond,
faithful love which blots out from the remembered picture
of the past all that the loving soul would wish to
have away. If Philip had failed sometimes, how much
there was in him to love ; how much in that bright,
joyous nature — so incapable of bitterness, so ready to
please and be pleased, so quick to forgive, so in love
with life and life's pleasures — to claim a lenient judgment
and a prompt forgiveness. Had Camilla always
judged leniently and forgiven promptly 1 She recalled
with an aching heart some cruel speeches she had made
him, some harsh judgments, some angry moods. After
all, life would be a sombre affair if the world contained
none but the strong-minded, the impulsive, the firm
of purpose, the inflexible of will. Anyhow, feeble or
strong, he was lovable ; and Camilla knew now, only
too well, how dearly she had loved him.

She could not look back upon her married life with-invent

Portus 225

out many a pang of self-reproach. What honest mortal
can ? As for Mr. Ambrose, Philip's failings were his
own. He read in each but the natural outcome of some
infirmity of will and purpose in himself But neither
Camilla nor her father-in-law were in the mood for
weighing merits and apportioning blame. The past,
with its hopes, its vain attempts, its rash ambitions, its
cruel reverses — too dear, too sacred for anything but
loving retrospect, — lay behind them, dimly seen through
blinding tears. What need of judgment, for one's own
heart or another's, when one is sure of love in both ?

It was midwinter, and the snow lay thick on the
wide Oxfordshire pastures, when Camilla reached her
home. As they drove along, the sound of village bells
came to them through the still, clear air : the cottage
windows were stuck about with the modest honours of
Christmas-tide. Everything was still and peaceful;
and Camilla felt a solemn sense of peace come over her.
Mr. Ambrose's gentle, pathetic au — the same that had
impressed her as a girl, sadder now and gentler than
ever — touched a responsive chord within herself. He
had grown an old man since Camilla saw him last — an
old man and with a broken look, as if the burthen of life,

VOL II. Q

bear it as patiently as one might, was almost too heavy.
He took her hand without a word and led her in ; he
pressed her to his heart : Camilla found herself sobbing
like a weary child that has crept to its mother's side for
aid and consolation. She was weary in spirit and body,
and had come, shattered and tempest-tossed, to a harbour
of peace — to ' silence and sacred rest, peace and
pure joys ' — best remedies for a wounded heart. We
will leave her there, nor seek to disturb that sacrum
silentium by prying eye or officious chronicle. Let us
hope that those good medicaments will do their work
and give her back to peace, serenity, and happiness
though happiness tempered by sad recollections and
bounded by more modest hopes than heretofore :

Even our failures are a prophecy,
Even our yearnings and our bitter tears
After that fair and true we cannot grasp.'

THE END
