vBhlfE BEARD

ILLINOIS LIBRARY
ATURBANA-CH.-VMPA1GN

BOOKSTACKS

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

The person charging this material is responsible for its

renewal or return to the library on or before the due date.

The minimum fee for a lost item is $125.00, $300.00

for bound journals.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons

for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from

the University. Please note: self-stick notes may result in

torn pages and lift some inks.

Renew via the Telephone Center at 217-333-8400,

846-262-1510 (toll-free) or circlib@uiuc.edu.

Renew online by choosing the My Account option at:

http://www.library.uiuc.edu/catalog/

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/ladybluebeard01curw

ZIT AND Noe:

Their Early Experiences.

Reprinted from ' Blackwood's Magazine''

Second Edition. Crown 8vo, price One Shilling.

OPINIONS OF THE PRESS ON 'ZIT AND XOE. 1

"The story of that early courtship in the morning of the world would not
be easy to match for brightness and colour." — St James's Gazette.

A cleverly conceived and admirably written little story." — Daily News.

"Graceful, spirituel, and amusing from end to end." — Morning Post.

A simplicity and quiet humour that afford capital entertainment

Exceedingly droll and amusing." — Daily Chronicle.

A very amusing book." — Academy.

"Full of tender touches and genial humour. A dainty epitome of man's

joys and troubles, fears and hopes One of those little books that, while

they amuse, leave the reader also for the time with kindlier and braver
thoughts of his kind." — Pioneer.

"Admirably told. From first to last it is thoroughly interesting"— Scotsman.


So cleverly conceived that it will be read not only with amusement but
with admiration for the unknown author's powers of imagination and descriptions"—
Scottish News.

Zit tells the story of his wooing very prettily"— Vanity Fair.

"A delicious skit." — Bradford Observer.

"Freshness both in idea and treatment"— Globe.

"The descriptions of the scenery are excellent, and there are at times
humorous turns of phrases and odd situations which make the story a taking
one." — Nottingham Guardian.

Written in an exceedingly clever and entertaining style"— Northern Whig.

Most amusing and clever." — Literary World.

"A delicious picture An exceedingly clever work." — Glasgow Herald.

Described with a quiet sense of fun and an unconsciousness of its absurdities
that is quite delightful Quaint, delicately humorous, and

poetical." — Illustrated Sporting and Dramatic News.

"An amusing story." — Liverpool Courier.

Very subtle and pleasant." — Army and Navy Gazette.

' Undiminished humour and beauty A tale such as only ' Blackwood '

gives, and not too often, overflowing with extravagance and poetry, wit and
humour." — Illustrated London News.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD & Sons, Edinburgh and London.

AUTHOR OF <ZIT AND XOE

IX TWO VOLUMES
VOL. I.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH And LONDON

MDCCCLXXXVIII

LADY BLUEBEARD.

CHAPTER I.

I came across her first in the oddest corner of the

v world yon can possibly imagine — in the Garden of

Eden, the veritable Garden of Eden, a dank desolate

- marsh, where the muddy waters of the Tigris and

Euphrates meet together. She was the brightest,

sunniest, most attractive woman I had ever seen.

Four strong men in sheepskin were carrying her over

k the mud. She wore a Terai hat coquettishly draped

with a pale pink veil, a white dress, and a white

muslin fichu. She was fanning herself lazily with a

big black fan. And had it not been for the fan and

• the fichu, there was something boyish as well as girlish

in her, too, as she rebuked her men, after she had been

vol. I. A

gently set down, for attempting to help her over a
puddle.

She was blithesome and lithesome, with the graceful
easy gait of a goddess that only comes to beautiful
women. Her hair, too, was honey-coloured, just as
in the old Greek legends, and it had somehow slipped
down from under her hat and hung all over her shoulders.
I suddenly remembered where I was. She was
Eve, of course, and by-and-by I should see the apple
and the serpent. The situation began to be interesting.
I said nothing till she came close up. Then,
as she saw me, she started a little. A quick, faint
glow passed over her pale cheeks, and died away
again. But there was a glint in her soft, grey, melancholy
eyes, as of flashing steel, when they first met
mine.

Are they sawing that tree down at your bidding ? "
she asked, almost rudely.

I have paid for it, madam," I replied, lifting my hat.

It was the Tree of Good and Evil.

A dear old fool of an uncle, to whom I am perhaps
more indebted than I quite like to realise, was responsible
for the absurd position I occupied at the moment.
He believed that Englishmen and Scotchmen (he was
Scotch himself) are direct descendants of the lost Ten
Tribes, and he was a devout disciple of an extremely
loud and vulgar gentleman who went about expounding

this extraordinary theory to the working classes.
When I told him that I was off again on my travels,
this time to India and Thibetan Tartary via Asia
Minor, he gave me the cheque which I am ashamed
to say had been the primary object of my farewell
call. And then he asked me to look in at Kurnah, so
as to ascertain if the Tree of Good and Evil were still
standing there, as his old friend Mr Inches, of the
Tigris and Euphrates line of river-steamers, assured
him it was.

Send it home, my boy," he said. " Let me show it,
with your own certificate written on the spot, at the
next meeting of the British Association, and I'll think
about doubling your allowance."

Naturally I am a man of few and modest wants.
But if my dear old uncle's money-making habits had
driven him half crazy, I could not yet afford to be altogether
crazy myself. Some of my creditors had been
absolutely rude during my last week in town, and as
my journey had now, from no fault of my own, suddenly
assumed the form of a pilgrimage, I got into a
comfortable sleeping-carriage of the " Orient Express "
at Paris, determined to go straight on whatever
happened.

The old pilgrims, if history can be believed, which
is more than doubtful, used to boil the peas they put
in their shoes. With this thought in my mind, I had

little or no difficulty in slipping a five-franc piece
into the guard's hand before starting. This secured
me three times as much room as I needed in the
sleeping-car, and the choice of all the dishes as they
came into the dining-saloon. The cuisine and the
wines were not at all bad. The cigarettes and French
novels I had laid in at Paris were exceptionally pungent,
and the climate, after a week in Bayswater, was
absurdly exhilarating.

Vienna, the pleasantness, and Buda Perth the
naughtiest, city in Europe, I passed without a second
thought. At Varna I was just in time to catch the
Austro-Hungarian steamer for Constantinople ; and
there again, without even a glimpse of the blue pathway
of the Golden Horn, I hustled myself and my
traps into the Messageries boat for Alexandretta. At
Bagdad I stopped four days, thanks to a touch of
fever and the bruises inflicted by a succession of the
most self-opinionated camels it has ever been my bad
luck to throw leg across. But I had originally meant
to spend half a year there at least, painting a picture
of Ctesiphon as it was.

Professor Owen, madam " (and here I addressed
my explanatory remarks more particularly to the lady
beside me, the lady with the melancholy mesmeric
eyes and impatient fan) — "Professor Owen had succeeded
in reconstructing the Dinornis from the fossilised

fragment of one rib. The great arch at Ctesiphon
was, I knew, much bigger than that, and with the great
arch before me, surely I could paint Ctesiphon in all
its glory — a city more extensive perhaps than London
and Paris rolled together, and infinitely more picturesque
than either. When I had dreamt over this magnificent
scheme in my compact little house-boat off
Meclenham a month before, I could almost see, in
front of the great archway, the broad street of brass-roofed
houses peopled once again with the vigorous
life of sturdier times than ours. There they were, the
white-robed priests of the Sun and of the Moon ; men
of war bearing their bows unstrung, but equipped, man
and horse, in scaly armour of glittering steel ; trimly
bearded nobles in their flowing gowns of gold and
purple; troops of saucy singing-girls and dancing-girls,
crowned with flowers and diaphanous clad;
importunate vendors of date-wine and unleavened
cakes ; long files of weary camels, laden with fragrant
burdens, and slowly led by the impassible dwellers in
the desert; traders from the farthest corners of the
world; slaves and slave-girls of every hue, pale and
swarthy, bronze and black, from every region that
paid tribute to the mighty Parthian empire ; andover
all, the sound of the pipe and the sambuca, and
the full rich light of an oriental sun. What a past !
But you sigh ? "

No, I think I yawned," she said ; " go on."

I will. I could hear the Magi chanting at sunset
and sunrise. I could hear the songs and laughter of
the ladies in their harems behind their gold and silver
panelled walls, and the loud shouts of revelry from
their lords below as they broached another wine-skin
or applauded some strange dancing-girl. And in the
far distance I could hear the murmur of universal
approval that greeted my first Academy picture."

"Well?"

Well ! As it was, I passed Ctesiphon complacently,
my two legs cocked up on the two arms of a long
Indian chair, and my attention more than divided by
a plateful of crushed pomegranate which Captain
Croly's boy just then brought out to me from the
saloon."

The Tree of Good and Evil fell with a crash, as I
tried to explain to my irate but fascinating companion
all the difficulties of a position in which Mammon had
too obviously got the better of Art.

She had, as you have seen, said little. But she had
shrugged her shoulders from time to time a trifle impatiently
; and when the old harridan, half Arab, half
Kurd, who lived in a hovel close to by selling twigs of
the sacred tree at a couple of piastres each, came out
to claim the exorbitant sum of two gold Mejideh,
which I had been weak enough to promise, my lady

with the bewitching fichu and flashing eyes coolly sat
down on its trunk.

Your uncle must be a fool," she said ; " and if you
will permit me to be frank, it is not difficult to see
that you are the nephew of your uncle. The tree is
an ordinary ficus. That old hag, who, by the way she
is biting them, seems to be suspicious of your coins or
your uncle's, will only have to move her squalid little
shanty two or three hundred yards lower down to find
herself planted in the midst of a regular thicket of
Souses."

There should be only one," I answered, venturing,
as the tree-trunk was really my own, to sit down beside
her.

That's exactly it," she said. " That's just why I
made the men carry me over the mud to have a look
at it. That's the worst of one's illusions. I have lost
many of mine" — and here she toyed for a moment
with her rings. " But ever since I was a little girl I
have believed in the Garden of Eden, and now you
and I are sitting upon all that's left of it."

"Take the log," I said, magniloquently. "It is
yours."

And your uncle ? " she asked, the fierce look in
her eyes and the frown on her snowy forehead dying
softly away as if by magic.

Oh, I will send him one from the thicket."

She smiled. "You really have something in you
after all. Xever mind the whistle," she cried, as a
steamer on the river began to whistle most vociferously.
"It is my steamer, not yours. I meant to
go to Europe via Bagdad. But the captain is a perfect
brute ; there's not a soul on board to speak to ;
and I may as well return to India with you."

This was, to put it mildly, rather more than I bargained
for, and as the steamer gave what, from its intense
shrillness, could only be a final screech, I played
my trump card.

Your luggage, madam," I said — " your luggage
and your things ! "

Oh, Priscilla will see to them ! She's used to me.
I've no uncle, thank goodness ! and I always do as I
like. So, as soon as you are ready, have your tree
taken off to the steamer."

Captain Croly had very kindly lent me nearly half
his ship's crew of sturdy Armenians. They came from
Mount Lebanon, and did credit to its altitude, averaging
six foot six each in, or rather out of, their stockings.
They had retired discreetly when the lady suddenly
sat down. But now I signalled to them to advance,
and the tree was on board almost as soon as we were,
and a long time before her luggage.

Captain Croly, one of the most charming — albeit one
of the most taciturn — of companions a few hours before,

when he was good enough to take me over Ezra's
Tomb, was far from courteous now.

You are late, sir," he said. " You have kept the
steamer back. It was lucky for you that I could not
sail without my crew ! "

So much for me. Then, as, without noticing his rebuke,
I continued to help my fair companion up the
ladder, I distinctly heard him say a bad word to the
chief officer.

The lady in the fichu, however, promptly disengaging
herself from my attentions, had Captain Croly's
hat in his hand in a minute.

She was so sorry, she said ; but really it was no
fault of hers if the captain of the other steamer had
been boorish and stupid, and so evidently unused to
ladies' society that, no matter at what inconvenience,
she had suddenly determined to break up all her plans
the plans of years — and throw herself upon the
mercy of the captain of the returning steamer.

Here she smiled sweetly, and Captain Croly, in his
way of it, gave a grim response. If there are two
steamers, the two captains, as in other walks in life,
are two rivals. Without a word to me, Captain Croly
handed her up to the capacious quarter-deck, and
before I could reach it myself, he sang out to the men
below to send a boat ashore at once for the lady's
luggage.

The luggage came eventually, and with it a ferocious
big black female who answered to the name of Priscilla.
She obeyed her mistress's signals like a sheepdog.
Once only did she look at me before she disappeared
behind a pile of luggage ; but that one quick
curious look almost curdled my blood.

Go ahead ! Ease her ! Stop her ! " shouted Captain
Croly, and with a few more energetic ejaculations we
got safely out into the open stream.

Then we went down to dinner, everybody feeling a
little strange at first. She did the talking for us. But
when the well-kindled calling, all aglow with live
coals, was handed round to us at dessert, I was surprised
to find Captain Croly devoting less time than
usual to its soothing and fragrant breath. He handed
it over to me almost directly, and then, in reply to an
adroit question or two, he was good enough to tell us
about the four lions he had once shot in five minutes
on the river's banks, and about the whale that, having
drifted into the Shet-el-Arab, forged ahead exactly like
a steamer pressed for time. She was killed, poor thing,
not far from Bagdad, giving a shriek that went sobbing
over the desert. This was, as I knew to my costa
painful and pathetic story ; and when Captain Croly's
crew had fairly got the hawser round the whale's tail,
our fair visitor rose, and with an almost imperceptible
shiver, bowed a courteous good night.

The moon was shining so brightly when we reached
the quarter-deck, that Captain Croly stopped the
steamer for the night and moored her alongside the
bank. On dark starlit nights the navigation was easy
enough ; but the deep shadows cast by a bright moon
made it dangerous. This struck me as being odd at
the time, and I only mention it here for the benefit of
such of my readers as may not happen to have been
in those parts. As soon as the steamer was safely
moored, we lay down in our long chairs, pulling away
silently at our pipes.

A curious lady that," said the skipper, as we parted
for the night. " Even my old woman would feel the
spell of her beauty. But I think my old woman
would say it was ' uncanny.' Did you ever see eyes
like hers ? She is going to India with you, I understand
? Good night, sir — good night."

Then he wrung me warmly by the hand.

This was a long speech for Captain Croly, and the
sympathetic shake of the hand a novel experience
altogether.

CHAPTER II.

The night was so cold that one could not possibly
sleep on deck, and my slumbers down below were
rudely broken by that wretched Tree of Good and
Evil. It filled one side of my cabin, and as the night
wore on, it assumed the weirdest and most monstrous
shapes. Now my lady of the fichu sat buoyantly upon
it. Now it creaked and groaned beneath the herculean
form of her ayah. The soft depths of the mistress's
beautiful grey eyes lulled me to sleep. The
contemptuous warning in every look her servant gave
aroused me to a condition of the most wakeful revolt.
Unable to bear the contrast any longer, I threw my
resai off in a rage, and was on deck again before the
sun had risen.

A troop of little Arab girls from the encampment
just opposite were already swimming round the ship,
splashing each other merrily, and quite ready, so soon
as they saw me, to duck their picturesque heads into

the muddy river, that enveloped them almost as
completely as their discarded burnouses could have
done.

Backsheesh ! backsheesh ! " they cried ; " have a
dive ! have a dive ! "

The same thing had happened at several of our ,
much to the disgust of one of our passengers,
a venerable and well-born Sheik, with whom I
had spent the pleasantness and most entertaining hours
of this somewhat tedious voyage. He had explained
to me, time after time, that an almost perfect system
of equality obtains between the members of each individual
Arab tribe — though here, as elsewhere, age
and youth have their natural influence, and, as in any
English circle, the oldest men and youngest women
carry the day. But there are, he was careful to add,
tribes and tribes. Penury and comfort live cheek by
jowl, and in the silent stretches of desert sands, just
as in the roar and bustle of London, St James's and
St Giles's are side by side.

Ah ! " he said, advancing slowly along the deck,
"you mustn't judge us with a stranger's eager eyes
from what you see. Hearsay evidence, bad as it is, is
never quite so bad as the evidence of first impressions.
There is, of course, a great deal we regret, but it is
mostly due to strangers like yourself, and your mistaken
notions of generosity."

I had got up so early that I felt inclined to argue
the question.

Begging for alms," I retorted, my teeth still chattering,
" is a very old and very common failing, and
an almost international necessity."

Not in Arabia," he answered, gravely. " You only
see it on the river's banks, and only amongst the more
degraded tribes. It has annoyed me intensely all the
way down to see how quick you were to notice how
those wretched little beggars in the water cried out,
Backsheesh ! backsheesh ! ' whenever I happened to
be explaining our republican system of perfect independence
towards each other, and our hospitality to
all strangers."

I quite agreed with my white-bearded Sheik as to
the demoralising effects of indiscriminating almsgiving,
and at one time, indeed, I had myself been an
active member of the Charity Organisation Society.
But no sooner had the Sheik retired below in dudgeon
than I began to pitch out small silver coins to the
agile little divers, who contrived, somehow or other, topick
them up long before the bottom was reached. I
had spent perhaps a quarter of an hour amusing myself
in this way, when my money-bag was suddenly, but
very gently, taken out of my hand. A much more
formidable antagonist than the Sheik stood beside me.

What would your uncle say," said my fair companion

of the day before, "if he saw you making
ducks and drakes of his hard-earned money ? And,
indeed, even your uncle, with all his eccentricities,
wouldn't find that young person, with the coarse wet
hair in her eyes and a coin between her glittering
teeth, a very edifying spectacle."

Her hair," I interposed, " is only in her eyes because
all Arab girls and women wore their hair in a
fringe a thousand years before you European women
thought of it."

Indeed, sir ! " she retorted, instinctively putting her
hand to her head ; " and perhaps you would like us to
go about in a river with a coin between our teeth. I
hold to what I said. Your uncle would not find that
swarthy Outline of yours a very edifying spectacle.
I think I should like your Ctesiphon Revived much
better than that. Don't you ? "

It would have been grander," I answered ; " but
would it have been so natural ? "

Ah ! " she said, " if you belong to the Naturalistic
school, I have done with you. But you don't mean to
say that you got up at this unearthly hour to see if
you could make those miserable little savages flounder
about for your two-anna pieces ? "

Not a bit of it," I retorted, rather nettled. " Your
eyes and your maid's were at the bottom of my early

My eyes and my maid's ! You really must be
gifted with a most extraordinary imagination. What
have my eyes and my maid's, as you call her, got todo
with you ? "

"They gave me a nightmare last night, that was
all — a nightmare strong enough to last till I ran away
from it."

Oh, Priscilla must have frightened you," she said.

Priscilla ? "

Priscilla. Yes ; she had some outlandish name
when she came to me first, but if you had been as
much amused as I was with the wonderful characters
she brought me, you would have christened her Priscilla
too. Priscilla, the Puritan Maiden. Poor Priscilla
! She is a faithful creature ; but she always
had an ugly knack of frightening people. All my
friends say she has a dour and diabolical look about
her. But I keep such a tight hand on her that I
never notice it myself. I could not sleep either, sir —
not because your beaux yeux vexed my slumbers, but
because I had changed my plans so suddenly that I
regretted the change before the other steamer was well
out of sight. So I came on deck to see the sun rise
over the desert, and there it is ! "

And there it was, just on the horizon, throwing out
broad bands of bright golden rays across the immeasurable
stretches of the dull yellow desert that lay below,

and fringing, with every shade of amber and violet,
pink and purple, the low castellated banks of pearly
clouds and the cool grey sky above. At sunrise, at
sunset, and at midnight, when nothing breaks its restful
and intense monotony, the fascination of the desert
is complete.

My companion sighed. " What a glimpse of Paradise
it gives one ! What a chance of solitude and forgetfulness
and oblivion ! I shall envy Lady Hester Stanhope
every time I think of it."

Her eyes had a wistful far-away look in them as
she watched the rising sun. She leant her beautiful
arms on the bulwark. The broad sleeves of her
morning gown had fallen back. As I looked at her,
I thought she had forgotten my presence completely.


You are an artist," she said abruptly, half turning
towards me ; " you are an artist, and for the moment
I was a poet ! But if we are to go to India together,
we cannot possibly continue to be he and she to our
servants and each other. Don't you think that, even
out of deference to Mrs Grundy, we ought to be formally
introduced ? Captain Croly is still in bed, so why
shouldn't we make that wonderful sun our god-papa ?
Mr Artist, Mrs Poet ! "

I wish I could put down on paper the inimitable
coquetry of her gracious little head as she raised it

VOL. I. B

from her tiny hands for a moment to bow sedately.
I entered into the spirit of her comedy at once.

Mr Hector Hicks," I said, trying to mimic her,
allow me to introduce you to, to, to "

I like the Hector," she answered, quietly — " I
don't like the Hicks ; and perhaps that may account
for my mixed feelings towards you from the first.
Mr Hector Hicks, Lydia Fonblanque — Lydia to her
friends, and to you, sir, Mrs Fonblanque."

What ! you are married ! " I cried.

Not now," she answered, gravely. " I have been
married. But stop ! Look ! "

The sleepy Arab encampment directly in front of
us, from which the little truants had swam out,
began to show signs of active life. The curtains of
the low black tents were thrown aside as if by some pre-concerted
signal, and a swarm of little colts and little
children streamed into the open. Long-robed men
lounged about, giving brief orders, each with a spear
or a matchlock in his hands, each turbaned with
heavy wisps of camel's hair, but one and all standing
out against the clear morning sky like statuesque
silhouettes. The tents were deftly struck by some of
the women ; others hurriedly dispensed the morning
meal of camel's milk and dates and unleavened bread.
The boys, with shrill cries, drove the horses, mares,
and camels into marching order ; and before our ship

was fairly awake, the bustling noisy encampment had
become a silent caravan, just disappearing round one
of the reaches of the river. With it the fantastic
glamour over land and sky and river also died away.
The steamer, summoned to her senses by a shrieking
whistle, gave a quick throb of vitality ; and, commonplace
tourists once more, Mrs Fonblanque and I
retired below to prepare ourselves for breakfast.

CHAPTEK III.

When I came up again after breakfast, the river
scenery had completely changed, and I pushed my
deck chair well forward, so as to have a good long
look at it. The very sight of the densely wooded date-gardens
coming down to the water's edge on either
bank was an immense relief to my eyes after the
utter desolation of the desert. Green always is a
beautiful and grateful colour, and here I had it in a
hundred different tints.

If I could," thought I, " but paint this striking
contrast, I should go far towards illustrating the true
nature of all sudden transitions."

And gradually, as I pulled at my pipe, I sketched
out in the smoke-clouds wreathing about me a fantastic
picture of Life and Death, the grandest transition of
any. Landscape scenery, however, is not everything,
and even to be properly felt, it must be judiciously
typified. For a fortnight I had, by land and river,
rushed breathlessly through a scorching desert, with

not even a stone the size of one's fist to break the
monotony of the sky-line. Now all the date-gardens
on the river's banks were teeming with industrious
life. The labourers sang — a trifle huskily, perhaps —
at their work ; dogs barked ; women gossipped ; the
shady grass-plot in front of every little hamlet of
cosy mud-huts w T as all alive with children, naked,
brown, and sunburnt ; cattle lowed, goats bleated, and
mares whinnied to their colts ; and in the far shadow
of these dark date-groves, long camel-caravans passed
silently, solemnly, and sedately to and fro.

Oh, to find one type for this variety ! " cried I
to myself. And then, impatient at the narrow limit
put on human ingenuity, I wheeled my chair fiercely
round, and so came directly alongside of Mrs Fons
who, without my suspecting it in the least,
sat there looking most intensely bored. "What a
contrast ! " I said to her. " Only a few hundred
yards away, and the desert impressive in its loneliness,
and almost appalling "

Appalling, certainly," she answered ; " impressive,
no ! I know nothing of the desert — and may I add,
Mr Hicks, that I care as little ? I came up here to be
amused. Let us talk rationally."

"Certainly," I said, "and if you don't like the
desert, turn your head a little this way, and look at
that beautiful bit of green fertility to the left. The

date-palm, according to the Arab proverb, must
always have her head in fire and her feet in water.
The blazing sun is the fire, of course ; and as for the
water, you see it in those labyrinths of canals and
little water-courses, passing from garden to garden
and from tree to tree. Honour the date-palm, for
she is your mother, said Mahomet "

"And you are really trying to amuse me with rational
conversation ? " asked Mrs Fonblanque.

"Yes, I am," I answered. "And I am trying to
show you that a tree, like a landscape, must be typified
before you can appreciate it justly. You remember
how Burke traced back the emotions most men feel,
when a new mountain-range comes suddenly in view,
to the childish recollections of a mother's fostering
bosom ? "

I remember nothing of the sort," she said, curtly.

No ! Nevertheless his theory still has its followers,
in spite of Sheridan's ill-natured question as to the
manly emotions of a child, brought up by hand, at the
unexpected display of a wooden spoon."

That's much better," she replied. " Now that you
are talking about wooden spoons, you are quite yourself
again. But you really can't expect me to sit
listening to what you say Burke and Sheridan, and
Mahomet and the Arab proverbs, have said already.
Be a little original for a change, or, if you cannot be

original just now, talk about yourself. You say you
paint. Is there nothing else you do ? "

I write sometimes."

I am glad of that," she answered. " I am fond of
books, and the kind of men who write them are good
fellows at heart, once you get over their shyness.
Shyness or conceit, which is it ? Or are they one
and the same things as with crirls ? "

Very likely they are," I said ; " for, judging from
the little I know of them, very young girls often show
much the same symptoms."

That," she said, " means poetry. But no man
should ever be allowed to write a novel before he is
forty, and no woman before she is twenty-five."

In this easy way she drew me out. From my own
little ventures we came to talk of the grand names
that mark an epoch. And I began to stare at her,
almost too openly, when some shrewd fragment of
suggestive criticism showed that she understood the
spirit of our own classical authors better than I did
myself, and was very much more at home than I
was with the modern German and Russian schools of
romance.

It was a trifle too much, though, to have all manner
of outlandish names flun in the face of one's own
mediocrity, and I retorted with a catalogue raisonne' of
the great English writers of the day.

Yes, yes' she said, impatiently. " I am sufficiently
patriotic to think they can hold their own against
their contemporaries. But what is that, after all ?
What is it ? "

Then, dismissing the pygmies of the present with
an imperious wave of her black fan, she continued,
Wait till women take their proper place in criticism
as well as in literature. Have you ever tried to consider
even Eousseau or Goethe from a woman's point
of view ? They are giants if you like. They have
each a direct personal influence still upon every man
in their own countries. So much I grant you. But
it is we poor women who have had to pay the
cost of all their grand social revolutions. Your very
votes "

"Were won in blood," I interrupted, trying to
utilise my uncle's favourite electioneering speech.

"Not in blood," she answered quietly, "but in
tears, and often very girlish tears. Eousseau and
Goethe, and Shelley too, for that matter, all played
on the hearts of the silly women who loved them, till
they struck the right key-note ; and inspired by this,
they were strong enough to go into the outer world
and speak like prophets."

Stop, stop ! " I cried. " Helvetius spent fifteen
years in elaborating that dreadful theory, and Diderot
destroyed it in an afternoon."

Never," said Mrs Fonblanque. " It is a theory all
my own "

You mean," I explained, " that love, or something
like love, is the source of all action ; that, as Helvetius
says, without passion there are no wants and no
desires, and that without wants and desires there can
be no action, because there is no need for any."

No, I don't," she answered, quickly. " I mean
nothing of the kind. I only mean what I say, — that
women are weak enough to sacrifice their lives, as on
an altar, so as to fire and inspire the men they love ;
and not a woman now (more shame to us !) but longs
to be loved by some Goethe or Eousseau. So far from
hating your selfishness, we adore it. We can only
feel. Some day we shall think ; and then, Mr Hicks,
beware of us ! "

« Why, my dear Mrs Fonblanque," I cried, " you
speak for all the world like Mr Mallock in the
Nineteenth Century ' ! "

"Oh, don't talk to me of Mr Mallock!" she
exclaimed. " Nothing could be more detestable than
his women — except, perhaps, his men. His heroes go
about with portfolios of improper photographs in their
capacious pockets, and his heroines look at them.
Faugh ! Every time I think of Mr Mallock as a
literary personage at home, I am thankful I have
never set foot in England."

What ! you have never been in England ! " I cried
out in the most honest and profound amazement.

Never," she rejoined. " I was going there for the
first time, when I met you and turned back."

We were both silent for five minutes.

I thought that would startle you," she said at last,
with a singularly expressive smile. " But I mustn't
make myself out too much of a barbarian. I have
been in Europe. Ah ! now you look relieved. Papa
used to take me to Florence for singing, and to Vienna
for dancing. But he never would take me to England.
Poor papa ! All I know of literature I learnt out
here from an old Jesuit tutor, and I am never quite
sure whether he did not do me more harm than good.
I was, of course, a child in his hands, and sometimes I
think "

Here Captain Croly, who had been pacing the
quarter-deck for the last half-hour, came to a dead
halt beside us, as if his endurance could hold out no
longer. Our erudition had evidently puzzled him, and
he had gradually slackened his speed as he neared
us. But now he put an unequivocal stopper on our
tete-astute conversation by saying, " Bussorah, ma'am,
Bussorah, where, I am sorry to say, you both change
over into the British-India steamer."

CHAPTER IV.

The dinner at the Eesidency that evening was in its
way a brilliant affair. I tried to shirk it, but Mrs
Fonblanque put a summary end to all my lazy scruples
by condescending to twit me about my ungallant indifference
as to what she might possibly look like when
she took the trouble to appear in full dress. " They
have called me all manner of horrible names in my
time," she said, " but they have never called me an
antique. If you really care for nothing but the antique
revived, stop on board, and finish your sketch
of Ezra's Tomb from a steamboat."

I dressed as quickly as I could, and as we were to
stay the night at the Eesidency, I huddled all my
things into a bag. Then we went together in a belle.
The full moon hanging like a clear-cut disc above the
dark masses of palm-trees in front, seemed unusually
large and supernaturally bright and beautiful. There
was an unspeakable charm of sadness and content in

the soft evening air. From the farther bank the
lights from the windows of the Governor's palace
shone in a pale and tremulous pathway across the
rippling river. The band on board the Turkish man-of-war
struck up a barbaric Tartar air as we passed by,
and fitful snatches of solemn Arabic minstrelsy came
to us most musically over the waters from the veiled
and unveiled revellers holding high festival in honour
of the glorious moon above them, and drifting slowly
down the stream in innumerable torch-lit boats. It
was one of those still nights that often precede a
storm, when the air is charged with what, for want
of a better name, we call electricity, and when silence
itself is the only fit expression of the subtle sympathies
so suddenly and so mysteriously awakened.
I would have given worlds to have touched Mrs Fons
hand for a moment. But both of us were
spell-bound.

When the water was too shallow for their oars, the
boatmen poled us through a long narrow water-way
that meandered in the most romantic and eccentric
fashion among the graceful date-groves. Eventually
we came to a broad flight of chunam steps, brilliantly
illuminated for the occasion. I am always emotional,
as any man must be whose life is devoted to some
vague shadowy ideal ; and now, indeed, it seemed as
if we had really touched the enchanted ground described

so minutely and so truly a thousand and one
times over in the ' Arabian Nights.'

Mrs Fonblanque sprang lightly ashore. Before
taking my arm, she threw off her opera cloak and told
me to carry it. She was simply dressed in a faint
primrose-coloured gown, fitting her so perfectly that
it scarcely needed the support of the almost invisible
sleeves which, by some ingenious stroke of fancy, she
wore on the upper part of the arm instead of over the
shoulder. The soft outline of her white neck was
almost concealed, and, as I thought, spoilt by the
glittering diamonds that fringed her frock, and she
had one spray of great brilliant in her yellow hair.
Even the boatmen, as they delayed their departure,
seemed to think that she was well worth a king's
ransom. A little dazzled and abashed by her beauty,
I was trying to put the same idea in an unobtrusive
way, when the Eesident with a courtly bow took her
from me.

Owing to my obstinacy we happened to be a quarter
of an hour late. Dinner was announced at once, and
I had to be content with a view of her from the other
side of the table.

This made me rather sulky at first, until I happily
chanced to remember that the famous Marquis of
Hertford had once gained much artistic Mat in Paris
by purchasing, not the picturesque little gem of a

house which had suddenly fascinated him in an evening
stroll, but a hideous structure opposite. " I like
a beautiful house," he said, when all his friends kindly
remonstrated ; " but you can't see your house if you
live in it, and I choose to live opposite." This ingenious
legend has befriended me at many dinner-parties
since then, when the lady I would like to have
taken in has not been allotted to me ; and I was so
pleased with the conceit at the moment, that after the
soup was served I repeated it to the plump little
Armenian lady who had fallen to my lot.

This was, of course, stupid and unpardonably impertinent,
and she answered me very properly by
trying to turn her nose up. But Nature, who had
cast that sensitive feature in a decidedly Jewish
mould, was against her. She could only throw disdainful
glances at Mrs Fonblanque, as she sat in
radiant state between the Eesident and a gentleman
whose soft brown eyes sparkled with kindly humour,
and whose closely-shaven jowl showed the power and
tenacity of a bull-clog. To be fit for anything, my
uncle used to say, you must either have a big back
to your head or a big jowl. My neighbour opposite
apparently had both. But my neighbour beside me
allowed me no time to study him. It was, at all
events, in common civility, my first duty to appease
her.

It was stupid of me," I said, in my most affable
manner. " I am often stupid. I can't help it. And,
of course, Mrs Fonblanque's style of beauty may not
strike you as it has, I own, struck me. But why are
you looking so scornfully at the gentleman on the
right? What is he? Who is he?"

Mr Wylie," she replied, abruptly ; and amidst
the ever-increasing current of her rippling conversation,
I recognised Mr Wylie at once.

Everybody in the Gulf, and indeed almost every
Englishman in the East, knows Mr Wylie by name.
He is the last of a useful race, a thoroughly orientalis
Anglo - Saxon. Without losing touch of his
own countrymen, he has contrived to completely
identify himself with the people among whom his
lot was at first very unwillingly cast. He came to
Bussorah before the Mutiny, and has remained there
ever since. The little bungalow on the Bussorah
river upon which he painted his name thirty years
before, has, with the expansion of the date trade, become
a perfect palace. Here, if rumour can be trusted,
you will find stately halls, paved and lined with rare
Italian marbles, and round each of them sets of
smaller chambers, their walls and ceilings covered
with an almost unbroken expanse of costly Venetian
mirrors. There are (at least my companion said so)
mysterious doorways, hung with heavy Indian imr-

days, and opening on to noiseless corridors carpeted
with Persian rags of inestimable value. In the midst
of the central quadrangle blooms, she said, the loveliest
garden in Asia, concealing in the very heart of its
huge-leafed tropical foliage an enormous swimming-bath,
open to the air ; and behind that again there is
a luxurious suite of Turkish baths. This is something,
not all. Mr Wylie, as even my neighbour allowed,
has the reputation of being a jovial and indefatigable
companion among the snipe 'and wild-duck along the
river marshes, and a genial and generous host in the
comfortable apartments attached to his new office on
the banks of the broad Shet-el-Arab. But though no
guest has ever been allowed to break the seclusion of
his home, the silence that reigns there is confined to
his own compound. Outside these narrow limits he
is the centre of a hundred myths. Here to-day and
gone tomorrow, he is supposed to know the East as
no European has ever known it. No country, if
money can be made out of it, is too remote for his
personal attention. No business venture, however
daring, is too perilous for him to attempt. No
pleasure, Sybarite as they call him, has ever jaded
his keen sense of physical enjoyment.

Here my attention was for the moment attracted
to the other side of the table, but I heard the Armenian
lady say something I could not quite catch,

about slave-shows and slave-girls and slave-dealing,
something about bow-strings, and datura-poisoning, and
mysterious sacks, and stifled midnight shrieks, and of
a cast-iron conscience that no black and hideous crime
could ever quicken.

Engrossed very naturally by the extraordinary interest
now shown by Mrs Fonblanque in Mr Wy lie's
conversation, I unhappily lost the thread, such as it
was, that bound my Armenian lady's arguments together.
She was shrewd enough to see this. ■

You are not listening," she said. " You don't believe
a word I say. Wait — wait till tomorrow morning
only and test me. Your boatmen, if you fee them
properly, will show you what a horrible man and what
a cruel man your charming friend's companion is.
They call his palace the 'Bussorah Jail.' It is the
one show-place here ; and though you can only see
it from a distance, all our boatmen make a little fortune
from strange travellers like you by pointing out
the stone-barred windows, from which the black eyes
of his wretched jail-birds flash hopelessly through the
palm-leaves. Go and look, please go and look, and
then, like your other friend, the Marquis, settle down
in the mud-hovel opposite. You will, at all events,
find it cheap."

This withering sarcasm evidently meant that my
Armenian lady wished to be just a trifle rude. But

VOL. I. C

rudeness was apparently the order of the day. Our
little dispute, if such a one-sided battle deserve the
name, had, spite of all my efforts, become sufficiently
noticeable to produce an awful pause. In the midst
of it Mr Wylie said in a very dulcet but terribly distinct
voice —

Oh no, Mrs Fonblanque, excuse me ! That is not
what I meant. Ladies are all very well in their place.
But our new-fangled "Western ideas are completely
wrong. Women should never be brought into any sort
of rivalry with men. They are much too good, too
beautiful, and far too fantastic for that. They should
be kept in a seclusion almost sacred. I have enjoyed
your lively conversation and your brilliant powers of
repartee immensely to-night. It is an intellectual
treat one does not often enjoy in Bussorah." Here the
Besiclent's lady frowned at Mr Wylie. " But allow
me to put it boldly : if you were a wife of mine, I am
selfish enough to think that I should wish to keep all
these attractions to myself."

Well," replied Mrs Fonblanque, " we will take an
extreme case, if you like. Suppose yourself my husband,
what would you do with me ? "

I should put you under lock and key," answered
Mr Wylie, without a moment's hesitation.

You would lock me up, sir ! Why ? "

Because the experience of countless ages tells me

that it would be the correct thing, the only thing, todo.
Believe me, my dear madam, ladies were never
meant to be exposed to every wind that blows, and to
be buffeted about until they become as angular and
as case-hardened as men should be. They simply ruin
the romance of their nature by taking part in those
sordid domestic cares which should in every well-regulated
household be intrusted to negro servants.
They miss the essential beauty of repose which, like
poetry itself, is the refined product of solitude and
seclusion. Female individuality, self-will, or selfishness,
call it what you may, is not understood in the
East ; and, judging from a lifetime spent here, I certainly
think the East is right. But right or wrong,
you must allow that more than seven-eighths of all
the intelligent men in the world are of my way of
thinking, to say nothing of ninety-nine per cent of the
women, whether intelligent or natural."

Mrs Fonblanque's soft grey eyes had the old ominous
glint of cold steel in them just then. Her face,
still serenely indifferent, was perhaps a little flushed.
But she kept her temper most admirably.

I can allow a good deal," she answered quietly,
for the sake of an amusing argument. You are
wrong about your women, and we will put them on
one side, if you please, and talk about the other
eighth of your men — the men of educated sentiment,

of refined, chivalric, and perhaps I may venture to
say, European feeling ; are they not to be consulted ? "

Not for an instant ! " he answered. " They have
been led away into a temporary rebellion against the
very first laws of nature, and they must in the natural
course of things get the worst of it. It is for
us, madam, to recall them to a sense of duty, and if
need be, to protect them. Pray don't think me personal.
You have, if you will permit me to say so, the
most charming individuality. But let me multiply
you by a hundred or a thousand, and you would be a
shrieking sisterhood. Surely, knowing, as I do, how
men are led away by female beauty and petticoat
influence, it would be better to lock you up at once in
some lovely and secluded spot where you would only
work for good."

Then, with a smile and a whisper, he laid the Persian
apple he had been carefully peeling all this time upon
Mrs Fonblanque's plate.

I waited breathlessly. In spite of the deference of
his manner, he had been so abominably rude that I
could scarcely keep my seat. I still thought she would
annihilate him. To my astonishment Mrs Fonblanque
answered his whispered confidence with a mechanical
motion of dissent. Then she rose, a trifle paler perhaps
than usual, and coolly bowed to her hostess, who, if

English etiquette means anything, should have bowed
to her. The Eesident's lady rose very stiffly in reply.
The other ladies were too interested in this entertaining
little passage of arms to think of moving. Mr
Wylie cut his own way out of the difficulty by nodding
a careless " good night."

CHAPTER V.

Thank God ! " said the Resident, when the ladies
had, after a modest interval, followed Mr Wylie
through the doorway. "Wylie always goes early.
But I wish he had gone half an hour sooner."

Some one ought to shoot him ! " I cried.

Oh ! " said a neighbour, drawing his chair up to
mine. " The Turks here were always trying to shoot
him once. But they gave that up as a bad job long-ago.
Their bullets — so they said — turned to water in
the air; and anyhow, he had an uncommonly light
finger on a revolver trigger. He's not the kind of
man to pistol. I wonder what upset him so to-night ? "

Wylie knows her," said a little wiry old man to
my right. " Wylie's no fool. iso Turk or Arab here
is generally more chary of his words. I never heard
him say so much before. Take my word for it,
Wylie knows her, and had a motive for every syllable
he uttered."

"Come, now," said my other neighbour persuasively,

"you know something too. You know everything.
Who is she ? "

The little wiry old man to my right was the very
last person I should have credited with accurate
information of any kind, much less with universal
knowledge. Nature, who generally knows what she is
about, had put his small eyes close together in the
first instance, and then, as if to emphasise her meaning,
had subsequently developed the mean scowl upon
his narrow forehead into a distinct mark of interrogation.


He was pleased with the compliment. "We are
all friends," he said. "Of course I know something,
but my information is confidential " (the scoundrel, for
divulging it !) " and must not go beyond the table. I
had a letter of credit, and a private letter as well, telling
me to do anything Mrs Fonblanque wished, and
to give her as much money as she wanted. My principals,
as most of you know to your cost sometimes,
are the most cautious of all cautious people; and
when, three days ago, I heard casually that the lady
was here, I telegraphed to Bombay. They wired
back : ' Follow instructions, father became millionaire
in Bombay Share Mania, father dead.' "

Whew ! " said my neighbour to the right ; " is
that all ? Half of us here to-night were millionaires
then, or thought so."

In a moment Mrs Fonblanque and Mr "Wylie were
completely forgotten, and so was I. The flood-gates of
Pactolus were opened. The golden river swept everything
away before it. The furrowed, widened faces
round the board borrowed new life from its glamour,
and eyes that had grown weary and faint in banishment,
and colourless and pale through prolonged despair, were
suddenly relit with a glimmer of their youthful past.
To any one but an artist, always watching for a sudden
rise and fall in the human barometer, the change
would have been inexpressibly painful. To me it
seemed to supply the precise missing link in a very
interesting little social theory. Which, I would ask
any of you, are the greater nuisances over their wine,
the red-faced, big-headed, bald gentlemen who had
nothing thirty years ago and are now immensely rich ?
or the unfortunate devils who live on the memory of
a magnificent past ? This had always been a moot
question ; and to be frank, it is a moot question still,
now that I have had time to recover from the effects
of that entertaining but disastrous evening.

You remember our poor old doctor," said one.
He was king of Bombay, sir (the English king, I
mean), for a twelvemonth. He dealt one his scrip as
if he were a conjurer showing a trick ; and so, by gad,
he was ! All his cards were trumps. His wife had a
pretty Scotch maid, and after his wife was confined,

he tossed her maid an allotment share in the Back
Bay Company by way of a tip. The girl, like a canny
Scot, waited till she could sell for a lakh of rupees.
Then she cleared out — and so did he a month afterwards,
when the crash came. They smuggled him onboard
the P. & 0. steamer safe enough. But the
steamer's engines, as luck would have it, broke down.
She had to put back, and then the natives nobbled
him. His bones, though, poor old chap, were scarcely
worth the picking. He had nothing they could seize
but an umbrella and a rickety epigram. So they
clapped him in jail for six months, and that broke his
old woman's heart. When they let him go he traced
out his wife's maid like a sleuth-hound. ' I gave you
ten thousand pounds,' he said. ' I am starving ; give
me half of it back.' ' Not I,' she answered. c You gave
me a bit of paper which would have ruined me if I
had kept it. But I shall always be happy to see you,
sir, when you call.' So he married her off-hand, and
bought a practice at Dulwich with her money ; and
there he is now, driving a roaring trade, worse luck to
him ! "

Never mind the doctor," cried another. " You've
had your rap at him once a-week for the last sixteen
or seventeen years. I don't wonder at the men losing
their heads ; but the women — faugh ! You couldn't sit
down at a dinner-table without the lady next you

telling you how many thousand rupees she had made
since she got out of bed, and what she hoped to be
worth the day after tomorrow. How they haunted
that good-looking young Hindu speculator who started
all the new companies ! You could scarcely get into
his verandah in the morning for the troops of fine
ladies begging for allotments, and knowing to him
and doing poojah to him as he squatted there stolidly
in oriental state. Pshaw ! The smash served us all
out properly. We deserved it."

Speak for yourself, Brown," shouted a little grey-headed
gentleman, in high dudgeon, from the other
side of the table. " The natives had the ball at their
feet then, and they didn't often kick it the wrong way.
Look what they offered Currie. The night before he
sailed for Europe they waited on him in a body. They
thanked him so warmly for his invariable courtesy,
that all the Europeans there laughed out. Courtesy
was scarcely Currie's strong point. They hung a great
pearl necklace round his wife's throat, worth a lakh
and a half of rupees if it were worth an anna. Then
they salaried and offered him a crore of rupees down
on the nail for all his investments as they stood.
Thank you, my friends he said, with a grim smile.
My wife is gratified, and so am I. . But both our
heads are screwed on the right way. Our little investments
will be worth a couple of million sterling

by the time we reach Suez.' The smash came. He
was a pauper at Aden."

A pretty pauper!" muttered my friend to the left —
u a pretty pauper, with fifteen thousand pounds' worth
of pearls round his wife's neck. He took them to
Hancock's ; and now he keeps a snug little inn in the
Trossachs, and puts a good sum past every year, which
is more than we do, eh, Brown ? "

Sir," I said to the Eesident, taking the first opportunity
of moving to a vacant chair beside him, " I ama
poor man myself, and out of place among so many
millionaires. What are they talking of ? "

"Of the Share Mania, Mr Hicks," he answered.
They always talk of it over their claret."

"Why?"

Most of them were bitten," he continued, dropping
his voice. " But it was a wonderful time. The
American war sent up the price of Indian cotton until
Bombay became almost fabulously wealthy. The
native merchants there brought out English coachmen
from London, if you please, to drive them and their
bare feet and bare legs about the Esplanade and
Bandstand. The roots up-country shod their bullocks
with silver, and bought silver tyres for their bullock-carts.
Every Englishman in the Presidency, no matter
how poor he might be, thought he was a millionaire
for a moment. The High Court officials, and the

very professors of the University, threw up their appointments,
and took to speculation as a trade."

"But how did they begin? Where did they get
the money ? " I ventured to inquire.

Money ! " said the Eesident, almost scornfully ;
"it is not money makes the millionaire, but brains
brains and brass ! There was as little hard cash
among them then as there is now. But the natives
reeked of money. The banks were full of it. You
were looked upon as a curmudgeon if you would not
borrow. You wanted to take up shares in a new
company, and there were new companies twice a-day.
hot and hot. You went to a friendly banker who had
been pestering you to borrow, and, on a promise to
deposit the shares, he gave you a cheque to pay for
them. You waited two or three weeks. Your shares
had gone up two or three hundred per cent by that
time. Then, if you were abnormally wise, you realised."

"And Mrs Fonblanque's father was abnormally
wise ? " I asked, slowly.

"I know nothing of her or him. But I always
fancy that Wylie, who left us just now, is a man of
the same type. Everything he touches turns to gold,
and apparently without the slightest trouble. Here,
we only envy him for his intense enjoyment of animal
life, and his wonderful success in business. But I can
tell you, from my personal and official knowledge, that

he is almost as well known in Zanzibar and the
Mauritius, in Rangoon and Hong-Kong, as he is
here. But here, as everywhere else, he is a puzzle tous
all. I do not know where he was yesterday. I
haven't a suspicion where he will be tomorrow, or
tomorrow week, say. But I do know, as a fact that
is useful to me sometimes, that he can, whenever he
pleases, twist the Caliph round his little finger ; and

yet "

Here an Arab servant crept stealthily up, and on
the small piece of paper he gave me I read — " Come
at once. Please come at once. We must go off to the
steamer. I am waiting for you on the steps. — L. F."

CHAPTER VI.

My cabin door was pushed violently open next
morning just as the rising sun began to peep into
the port-hole. I awoke with a start, to find that
terrible creature Priscilla standing over me in a
threatening attitude. At first she seemed part of
some long-forgotten dream, my own voice sounding
remote and strange as I implored her to speak. But
I shivered in good earnest when she spoke, for her
voice was as hard and fierce as her eyes. " The Mem
Sahib gives salaams," she said, " and the Mem Sahib
sends this." It was another note — that was all; but
another note was a little too much just then, considering
that Mrs Fonblanque had not yet condescended to
explain her enigmatical note of the night before. A
pretty fool I should have looked if, after bolting away
'without saying "good night," I had had to return to
the Eesidency to apologise before any of them were
out of bed. However, I was spared that indignity.
Mrs Fonblanque merely said that as it was a

deliciously cool morning, she ventured to hope I
would be good enough to escort her round the town
in a belle. I would find her preparing early breakfast
on the quarter-deck in about ten minutes.

That did not sound very dreadful. But you must
remember how completely, since leaving Charing Cross,
I had subordinated my wishes to my uncle's, that my
work was really over when I had once secured the
Tree of Good and Evil, and that I was naturally
looking forward to a prolonged and very lazy holiday.
Yet here I was, without any option of my own in the
matter, bound hand and foot, last thing at night and
first thing in the morning, to a perfect stranger. I
went on deck fuming ; but directly I saw Mrs Fons
I was absolutely compelled to acknowledge
that her thraldom, suddenly as it had come upon me,
might have pleasant possibilities about it. I felt,
moreover, that it might perhaps give the artistic side
of my nature the very bias that was still too obviously
wanting.

Mrs Fonblanque, as she stood there on the quarterdeck
cutting up a big melon, would have won the
soul of any artist. She typified herself unconsciously.
She reminded me, for the first time since I had seen
her, of English home-life. Like the water-melon in
her little hands, she was very cool and pleasant to
look at in her fresh white morning-gown. She advanced

a step or two and frankly gave me her
hand.

You forgive me, I know," she said. " I was all
nerves last night and terribly put out, I scarcely know
why. And as I often say silly things when my temper
is wrong, I try to hold my tongue then. When we
reached the ship I was too much ashamed to say
anything but good night. There ! forgive and forget.
I have your cup of tea all ready for you, just
as you like it, without milk and sugar, and if you sit
down I will slice the lemon into it myself ; and then, if
you care to help me, we will have a charming day."

I thanked her, and, with my temper perfectly restored,
sat down to chota hazree. When I looked up
again, I saw a ghoul-like figure in long black robes,
and with a funnel-shaped white veil tightly stretched
across the face. Only the eyes were visible, but those
tell-tale eyes were so lit up with fun and merriment
that I knew them at once.

"This is my disguise," said Mrs Fonblanque, half
throwing it off, and quite unconscious of the artistic
effect of half transitions. A lady's costume, I take it,
should only be a framework for her beauty, though
M. Worth, I am credibly informed, can suggest such
charms as no lady would ever think of revealing.
Mrs Fonblanque just then, however, knew as little
of M. Worth's abilities as I did.

We are all slaves of fashion, you know," she said,
smiling, " and an English lady has to wear these awful
things in the bazaar here if she does not wish to be
mobbed and insulted ; and so for once I must go into a
lovely and sacred seclusion, as that horrible man said
last night. But there is a good thick curtain round
our belle. I need not make a guy of myself on the
water, thank goodness ! but I must take this hideous
wrapper with us. Come along, sir, the belle is ready,
and the ship is getting unbearable."

This was true enough. A band of hulking Arabs,
dressed in what looked like grimy night shirts, were
coaling, and in another part of the ship the lascars
were hammering away at the quarters destined for the
Arab horses which were to form the bulk of our cargo
to India.

Bussorah, though its architecture is not much to
boast of, really is the Venice of the East, and the belle
is its gondola. The belle, which had been placed
at Mrs Eonblanque's disposal by the agents, had a
white canopy festooned with red, and ample white
curtains, and was comfortably fitted with silk cushions
and soft Persian rugs. The lazy motion, as we were
poled up the main canal, was very easy and pleasant ;
and though we were ourselves invisible, even to the
crew, we could see everything around us.

The date-gardens, intersected by small canals, came
VOL. i. D

down to the banks on either side. The town itself lay
some two or three miles farther up ; but here below,
the wealthy merchants had their country seats in the
midst of immense but monotonous gardens. The
houses, big and little — all built of huge half-dried
mud bricks, and all on the same model — were gloomy
enough, for their windows, as a rule, opened into an
inner quadrangle ; and a house without windows
necessarily reminds one of a face without eyes.
You shudder and go on. But each house, nevertheless,
had its distinctive feature in the canal, passing
under a bridged pathway and winding in and out of
the palms until it washed a fine flight of glistening
white steps, on which the gaudily-dressed negro-slaves
thronged together to take a sun-bath like the lizards,
and just as lazily watch the world go by.

Along the well-shaded pathway to our left, Turkish
soldiers in a loose Zouave uniform lounged surlily
about on guard, scolding the poorer sort of people as
they plodded to and fro or drove their donkeys across
the shaky little bridges. A couple of date-tree trunks,
covered with a thick layer of sun-dried mud, is a
bridge at Bussorah. But that does not much matter,
for all but the very poorest class use the canal, and the
canal at this early hour was alive with boats. The
Bussorah Arabs are a singularly musical race, probably
because they are sailors as well as nomads, and as

much at home on the open sea as on the boundless
desert. The belles, as they were pushed forward
with long poles, glided swiftly and silently through the
water ; but their crews, and often their passengers,
joined together in some rhythmical refrain, and the
boatmen in the great cargo-barges, as they passed by,
added a few low notes by way of salutation.

Some of the belles were completely tented over
till they looked for all the world like funeral palls ;
and we met more than one bridal procession of half-a-dozen
boats, gaily tricked out with flowers and glowing
carpets, coming down the canal, with a band of
Arab musicians in front of them, and with silvery
peals of merry laughter from the women's boat in
their midst. Then there were broad market - boats
laden with pumpkins and melons, peaches and grapes,
pomegranates and all manner of outlandish fruit and
vegetables; cargo-barges piled deftly up, after the
haystack fashion, with date-boxes for the European
steamers ; great caravan-boats making for some distant
haven, where the real journey would begin ; battered
old ferry-boats, as slow as veterans will be,
bridging every here and there the two sides of the
canal ; and the gorgeous official boat, spick and span,
with a very self-opinionated Turkish officer lolling in
the stern, as he was rowed in the English fashion by
a smartly dressed crew.

UBRAR1

utuvBgm of p umm

The hatred the Turks and Arabs have for each
other on land seems, however, to die away upon the
water. Here everybody was as good as his neighbour,
who could run over you if he liked — and, asa
consequence, everybody was courteous and good-natured.
Every now and again the round white arm
of some veiled Circassian beauty would thrust aside
the heavy purdah for a minute, and all the ladies,
until they were discovered and repressed, would join
in the running fire of merry chaff.

Our belle suddenly stopped. The tindal himself
raised one of the curtains. "That is "Wylie Sahib's
bungalow," he explained in easy Arabic.

Go on at once ! " said Mrs Fonblanque, looking
steadily at the other bank.

This enabled me to take an uninterrupted view of
Mr Wylie's house ; and so far, my Armenian lady was
perfectly accurate.

We are passing Mr \Vy lie's house," I observed.
The Armenian lady I took in to dinner last night was
quite right in her description. But what an extraordinary
man he must be to vegetate here, if he can
keep up a palace like that ! "

I detest him ! " cried Mrs Fonblanque. " He was
most abominably rude to me. Never mention his
name to me again. And as for that little Armenian
fright with whom you flirted all last night, I should

perhaps detest her too, if I could bring myself to do it.
Even the date trade has its drawbacks, when people
like that find their way into date-trade society."

The date trade ! " I exclaimed, motioning to the
tindal to drop the curtain and proceed. " You speak of
the date trade as if it were a branch of science or art."

"So it is here," she said. "The date trade, from
what your fat little Armenian lady and her sister told
me yesterday, is the most artistic science out. You
buy dates at six months' credit, sir, and you send
them home. The banks in Kurrachee or Bombay
advance you money on the bills of lading, as I think
you call them, and before you pay for your dates they
have been sold in London at a profit of fifty per cent
and it used to be a hundred. ' You understand
me ? ' said your Armenian lady. ' Perfectly,' I replied.
'My ayah, Priscilla, would like to trade on
these terms. But if you can make such an enormous
profit out of Arab credulity, why do you and your
sister stop in this horrible place ? Why not imagine,
as Priscilla would, that your fictitious capital is ten
lakhs, twenty lakhs, thirty lakhs — any figure you
please ? Why not realise on that and clear out ? '
That was the beginning of my little fight last night,
Mr Hicks. But never mind last night. Here is
Bussorah-on-the-Mud. Please help me on with the
disguise."

Turkish ladies, no doubt, are used to the intricacies
of the cloaks and veils with which they
rather unnecessarily shroud their exuberant charms.
I did what I could. Mrs Fonblanque laughed
a little. I laughed a good deal. Then I called
in the tindal, and being a handy man, and having,
as he explained to her, three or four wives of
his own, he helped us out of our difficulty in a
trice.

A very tall, very black, and very burly negro was
waiting on the steps to act as dragoman and to pioneer
us through the crowd. One oriental bazaar is much
like another. But the Bussorah bazaar was a fairly
good specimen. The interminable brick archway above
us was broad and lofty. Here and there the sun burst
through a chink in the solid sort of ray that one often
sees in old religious pictures. The recesses or little
shops on either side were larger than usual, and, as
usual, the merchants squatted or slept (even at this
early hour) on the long clay slabs in front of them.
Every trade had its own quarter. If you wanted a
packet of screws or a yard or two of Manchester piece-goods,
or even a handful of grain, you could wander
for a hundred yards to right and left until you had
ascertained, through much deliberate bargaining, the
fair market-price. Here the air was so pungent with
pepper and achilles and aromatic spices, that you literally

sneezed. There the coppersmiths lazily plied their
musical trade in front of pyramids of burnished pots
and pans that glistened in the gloomy light like red
gold. Cross-legged tailors stitched away merrily —
some of them, I was shocked to see, with the aid of
the sewing-machine. The costly tissues and fabrics
and textile wares of the East itself were badly represented
: for those, of course, you must go to the Baker
Street bazaar. The very daggers and pistols, covered
with barbaric silver-work, bore a Birmingham stamp ;
while the stuffs and calicoes and muslins, oriental as
they were in design, came from Manchester or Switzerland.
Even the red cloth out of which the fetes of
the faithful were deftly hammered on wooden blocks,
was only shoddy from Leeds. The process was a
simple one, and many a passer-by stopped to have
his old fez rejuvenated, just as an Englishman might
stop in Piccadilly to have his hat done up.

Still the commonest things of all undoubtedly bore
the local colour. There was a little bazaar of coarse
earthen jars, in the largest of which any one of the
forty thieves could have been comfortably drowned
in boiling oil. Some of the huge open sacks in the
grain - dealers' stores were filled with cereals never
seen in Europe. The bread in the bakers' shops had
a shape of its own. The fruit in the broad brass trays
were decidedly uncouth. The cook-shops, with their

huge caldrons of boiled flesh, their piled-up pillars,
their savoury morsels of toasted hctbobs deftly skewered
one on to the other, and their heaps of saffron-coloured
rice, were really Eastern ; and everywhere around them
the barbers, the story-tellers, and the negro porters
were hanging about waiting for custom. More Eastern
still, if that be possible, were the spacious coffee-shops,
where men of almost every oriental nationality met
together to sedately smoke the calling of peace.
Sedateness, indeed, was the one common feature of
the motley crowd. Horses are only less rare at
Bussorah than at Venice or Muscat. But as a stray
Bedouin rode slowly through the crowded bazaar, his
high-bred mare would quietly force her way between
two earnest conversationalists, and so courteously that
they thought as little of the interruption as her rider
did. The Jews and Armenians, it is true, seemed to
gesticulate a little ; but as they were banished to one
of the many entrances of the bazaar, we could not
hear what they said. And it was much the same
with the negro women clustering like bees round the
butter shops and sweet-stuff stalls, tasting almost as
eagerly as they talked; or, as we saw them a little
farther on, inviting the verdict of the crowd whenever
they cheapened a sham bracelet or tried on a
gaudy head-dress. The Turkish ladies did their shopping
much more seriously, sitting down opposite their

shopkeepers and waiting apparently until fatigue
should overwhelm one or other of the conflicting
interests. It was a curious crowd. Jews, Turks,
Curds, Armenians, Greeks, Banians, Persians, Arabs,
and negroes made up a sufficiently picturesque
gathering. But still, as I told Mrs Fonblanque, the
Bussorah we saw was certainly not the Bussorah of
the good old days of Haroun-al-Baschid, when the
city, the emporium of the Eastern world, held eight
hundred thousand adventurous and turbulent souls,
who spent their money like water in love and revelry
and riot, when they were not making it out of murder
and piracy on the high seas. Of course I do not suppose
for a moment that there ever were eight hundred
thousand, or four hundred thousand, or even three
hundred thousand souls in Bussorah. But, as the
faithful chronicler of an Eastern story, I am bound
to quote Eastern figures as I found them. In the
purchases Mrs Fonblanque made, the dealers, I could
not help noticing, asked ten times more than they got.
And perhaps those unchecked historians, their forebears,
used the same decimal system of notation. At
a rough guess, I should have put down the population
as I saw it at twenty thousand, mostly beggars. The
Bussorah bazaar is a paradise for beggars. They sleep
there at night, and by day they wait about till Providence
sends them their alms. Then they have their

cook-shops and their fruit-shops and their cafes at
hand, and whether you give them anything or not,
they are courteous and very orderly. Even the care
we bestowed on Mrs Fonblanque attracted little attention.
The people who were good enough at first sight
to think me an incongruous member of her party,
were satisfied when they noticed our negro dragoman
stalking on in front.

Bussorah must be a dreadful place for fires," said
Mrs Fonblanque, stopping to look at a fine collection
of Bactrian coins fresh from Birmingham. " Most of
the people have their faces covered with scars."

Yes," I answered. " But they are worse in Bagdad.
That's the ' date boil.' Almost every one who
goes there gets it, and they say I shall very likely
have it by-and-by. It lasts four months, and disfigures
you for life if it happens to come on your face.
You can't entice European ladies to live there at all.
They can't face it."

I should think not ! " said Mrs Fonblanque ; " and
I am really beginning to be glad I turned back."

Suddenly the air grew fresh and sweet, and in a
moment or two afterwards we emerged into a large
square plot of open ground, with a ruined mosque on
one side of it, a spick-and-span set of barracks on
another, and on the third a row of mean-looking
houses, from the doors and windows of which, bedizened

and crowned, flaunted a number of unveiled
and over-painted Armenian women.

Thank heaven ! " said Mrs Fonblanque, clutching
my coat. " I was almost stifled. That is what your
Naturalistic friends, Mr Hicks, would make of your
Ctesiphon Revived, and I have no doubt their picture
would be much more lifelike than yours. Please
give me your arm for a moment. You can't tell how
tired I am."

I am very, very sorry," I answered. But a body
of Turkish recruits doing goose-step grinned so impudently
at the unusual spectacle of a Turkish lady
clinging on to an Englishman's arm, that she withdrew
her hand until we gained cover.

I am very sorry. Had we not better return before
you are quite exhausted ? "

Oh dear, no ! I am better now. These hobbledehoys
saved me. I thought I was going to faint,
and if I had fainted, you could not possibly have
revived me in this intricate costume. But I never
dreamt of going through that awful bazaar a second
time. I sent the belle all the way round to the
canal in front of us, just beyond the date-trees on the
fourth side of the square. I shall be all right again
once I am behind its friendly curtains ; and then we
can have tiffin."

Chapter VII.

Are you never quite in earnest, Mr Hicks ? " asked
Mrs Fonblanque quietly, as I distributed the contents
of the tiffin basket over the limited space of shade
cast by a couple of friendly male and female date-trees.
" Your lively conversation amuses me up to a
certain point. But it is a trifle monotonous, and I
begin to understand your character now, and why
your Academy picture has not been hung yet ; and
for goodness' sake, don't try to cut the chicken-pie
with a spoon ! "

"That is only another type," I answered. "I amin
reality burnt up by earnestness. The fire, fortunately
perhaps, is intense enough to consume its own
smoke, and so you never know anything of it. The
Fates, too, are against me. I am always trying to
cut the chicken-pie with a spoon ; and what you very
properly call my flippancy, is the inevitable result of
unappreciated effort."

"I said nothing about flippancy," said Mrs Fons

adding a little more vinegar to my salad-dressing.
" But you men seem to have such fine
careers cut out for you from the first, that anybody
condemned to be a woman for life is apt to pity your
failures as well as envy your successes. You have
muscle, Mr Hicks, but you want will. Had I been
in your place when we both got into the steamer
returning to Bussorah, I should certainly have retorted
by getting into the Bagdad boat. I should have
thought much more of you had you done so. Perhaps
I should have followed, and that would have given you
the w T hip-hand."

My dear Mrs Fonblanque," I replied, " what you
say is perfectly true, and occurred to me at the time.
But as I had a distinct ideal before me, I preferred
that your plans rather than mine should be disorganised."


I wish I could really believe that," she said. " Indeed
I wish I could believe anything. I have a
trained and disciplined understanding. I have more
knowledge than most women. I have read more and
seen more, and I have, I fear, almost unsexecl myself
by a narrow habit of logical thought. ' Why this ? '
why that ? ' I ask myself when you or any other
man talks to me; and if a lady talks to me, I say
bonnets,' and the whole thing is settled off-hand, and
I despise her and myself more than ever. I don't

for a moment wish to be one of the emancipated.
But I am doubly hampered, as I daresay those delightful
date-merchants told you last night, by being not
only a woman, but a woman of unlimited resources.
"Whenever I meet a man worth knowing, I feel I
shall do him far more harm than good, and that,
simply because I am a woman, like any one of those
crowned Armenian harridans beside the barrack walls,
I must inevitably work for evil, exactly as that atrocious
Mr Wylie insinuated last night."

Oh, you shouldn't speak of yourself like that ! "
I cried, gravely.

Shouldn't I ? " she answered. " That only shows
that you are not so shrewd a judge of character as
Mr Wylie."

I don't believe in Mr Wylie," said I. " He's not
true, and he's not straight. I don't know, and I don't
in the least care, what it was he had the impertinence
to whisper to you before you rose. But after you had
both left the room, some man at the table said he had
known you all along."

They said that ! " cried Mrs Fonblanque quickly,
and looking me full in the eyes. "What more did
they say ? "

Nothing."

He never saw me before last night, and I assure
you, Mr Hicks, that I had never seen him before.

Yet he seemed to know me too. Well, well, a manlike
that is not worth thinking about. But I am
really speaking the truth now. I have worked for
evil, even when I thought I was doing most good, and
I cannot possibly help it."

What do you mean ? " I exclaimed, in profound
astonishment.

That man Wylie evidently held the clue to some
terrible secret, and I was now about to hear it.

It is very difficult to explain what I mean," she
answered. " But stop ! We were talking the other
day of men owing their triumphs to women's tears.
That was a very girlish theory of mine, and it seemed
like old times to hear you talk it over, and bring Hel-vetus
and Diderot to bear upon me."

No," I said ; " Helvetius was on your side, but he
was wrong."

Of course. Women invariably are wrong, and so
are all who take their part. You make the laws. It
is very easy to say, this is right and that is wrong,
if one has a muscular arm and a stout bludgeon in
one's hand."

No doubt it is," I answered. " But still the muscular
arm seems to me an almost insurmountable difficulty."


"I daresay Eve found it so," rejoined Mrs Fons
" But surely the world has progressed since

then. Give rue the tiniest pocket-revolver now manufactured,
and take the biggest club you can find, and
then let us try conclusions. No, no, Mr Hicks, the
reign of brute force is finished, if you please. There
is a kind of interregnum just now, and till that is
over, we shall no doubt still think our fetters ornamental.
I am no better than the rest. Perhaps I am
worse ; for, in spite of Diderot, I still believe in what
I said about men owing their triumphs to women's
tears. In my time I have almost cried my eyes out,
Mr Hicks. To make a real living man, with a real
soul in him, with lips to speak and hands to smite —
a man who should be as a leader and prophet to his
fellows ! You were right. That is all we can strive
after, once we realise that our own yearnings must be
repressed. But what puppets they are when we have
made them — large and limp replicas of ourselves.
Sometimes I think that the best men and the truest
are those who have never looked into any woman's
eyes but their mothers', and who have gone into a
monastic seclusion of learned thought and indefatigable
effort, just as I went this morning into that hideous
costume."

You are hard upon us," I said. " Most of us believe
in progress. But even logically, there must be
followers. We can't all be leaders and prophets."

Scarcely," replied Mrs Fonblanque, drily. " But

you all talk as if you could be, and you all expect us
to believe you. I assure you, Mr Hicks, that men as
men know nothing of themselves. We are the dictionary
with which you are translated."

And the translation ? "

Well, it's not always in heroic verse."

Probably not. But surely, Mrs Fonblanque, despising
us as you do, you have never among your many
fancies wished to be a man ? "

Have I not ! " she exclaimed. " I would give my
fortune, such as it is, to be a man for a few years. To
have a woman's quick instinctive brain and a man's
power of instant action, to be free from petty spites
and jealousies, from headaches and heartaches — what
a chance that would give one ! As it is, I can only
sit with my hands folded primly in front of me, or
make pretty little caps and socks for other people's
babies."

Her voice faltered. I could never imagine Mrs
Fonblanque sitting with her hands primly folded in
front of her ; but when I looked at her face, there were
real tears in her eyes. I gave a sigh of relief. I had
begun to think that she really was involved in some
awful and inexplicable tragedy. But the tragedy of
her life was a very common one after all. She had no
children, poor soul ! It was full time to change this
morbid line of conversation.

VOL. I. E

How about the charming-day we were going to
have, Mrs Fonblanque ? " I asked, abruptly.

We shall have it yet," she said, entirely changing
her mood. " I began by teasing you for never being in
earnest, and ended, like a woman, by overdoing it myself.
Vive la bagatelle ! We will have another glass
of champagne. Then you can light your cheroot, and
as there is no one here to mob us, we will have the
curtains rolled up, and drift down the canal as slowly
as ever the tindal likes."

When we halted for tiffin we were midway between
Bussorah and the river. The new canal, unlike the
old one, had very few houses overlooking it, and scarcely
a soul passed by. The banks were covered with agile
little tortoises, getting into the mud and out again ; but
when the boatmen had landed our tiffin basket and
cushions and retired for a siesta behind a bend in the
canal, we seemed to be so completely alone that even
the little tortoises disappeared from view.

Leaving the boatmen to pack up, we walked along
the well-shaded bank of the canal. Behind the date-palms,
some of which still bore clusters of pale yellow
fruit, there were apple-trees and apricot-trees bursting
into blossom, and many other familiar fruit-trees one
scarcely expected to meet in such strange company.
The woodland scenery was pleasant and very homelike,
and the sun not too hot.

I call this nice' said Mrs Fonblanque, taking my
arm as I half stumbled over an ant's nest.

« Why ? "

Because I thought ' Alla Eookh ' a fraud when
we were in the Bussorah bazaar, and now there is
Moore's acacia actually waving her yellow hair at us."

"Where?"

"Just behind those stiff and stupid-looking palm-trees
under which we took tiffin."

Oh, please don't abuse those two particular palm-trees,"
I said. " They are of different sexes, just like
us, and somehow they seem to typify us exactly."

Poor palm-trees," she answered, with half a sigh.
I wonder if they like it as much as we do. Really,
Mr Hicks, I must decline to allow you to typify meany
more. It gives one a feeling, somehow, of being
caught in a butterfly-net by a gigantic and immensely
superior being, and of having a sniff of chloroform
while one is being pinned down, painlessly of course,
into a specimen cabinet smelling of camphor."

I beg your pardon," I said hastily ; " I never "

No, I know. But, come now, Mr Hicks, how
many fair and sorrowing ladies are typified and docketed
and stowed away in that cabinet of yours ? "

I have no cabinet," I answered. " I tried in the
most harmless way in the world to typify the palm-tree,
and you accuse me of being bumptious and gigantic,

and heaven knows what besides, and of attempting
to caricature you."

Scarcely that ; but I think you meant, if you meant
anything, to say that one of the palm-trees typified me,
and the other palm-tree typified you. We were both
in the same boat."

No," I answered, quickly. " We were both forgotten
for a moment. I was not thinking of you or
myself. I was thinking of Heine's palm and the pine-tree
that loved her."

Oh ! how was that ? "

This is how it was," I said, slowly : —

11 Upon a fierce Norwegian height

A pine-tree towers alone,
And he slumbers on in his mantle white

Of snow-drifts round him blown ;
And he dreams and dreams of the Morning Land,

And of one palm watching there,
From her burning bed of yellow sand,

In lone, untold despair."

Bravo, Mr Hicks ! If that was your own instead
of Heine's, I should say it was very promising, and
I should allow you to go on typifying a little longer.
If I could paint, though, I should like to paint you asa
towering pine-tree, with a great snow-blown mantle
around you, and a regular collection of warm and
tender types and memories melting in your arms.

Heine never knew much about his own love affairs.
Perhaps he knew nothing at all about the vegetable
loves."

"If you insist upon being disagreeable, I may as
well call the boat."

Yes, do ; but one moment first. The male palm-trees
out here have, with all deference to Heine, a
very good time of it, and wouldn't think much of his
one palm watching there. They all, I am sorry to
say, go in for polygamy, Mr Hicks ; and, judging from
the way in which they stand apart, I should say
that your two particular palm-trees are just a little
eccentric and quarrelsome."

Perhaps so," I answered ; " but suppose we drop
these personalities. Neither you nor I are either
butterflies or palm-trees."

"How neatly Heine would have put that!" she said,
with a little mocking, silvery laugh, " and what a
blow it would have been to his bumptious Norwegian
pine-tree ! "

Yes," I said, reluctantly. " No doubt there is
something wrong about those two trees. Their
position is a false one — any naturalist, I know,
would say that. Wellstead certainly says the Arabs
always get the best result by planting a single male
tree in the middle of a grove of females "

Does he ? And, pray, who is Wellstead ? "

A famous traveller in these parts, whom Captain
Croly was always quoting."

Really ! I am sorry Captain Croly did not quote
Mr Wellstead to me. He might perhaps have been a
little more entertaining than he was. But I can quote
too. Do you remember what the French poet says
about the loves of the palm-tree ? "

No," I replied frankly, " and I generally avoid the
French poet as a dangerous authority."

Not in your case," said Mrs Fonblanque, smiling.
I can't translate him as you did Heine ; but, at all
events, this is what he says : —

Heureux les panniers ! leurs amours
Vont, sur les ailes de la brise,
De l'aniant ignore toujours
A l'amante toujours surprise.

Rien de reel ne vient briser

Lessor ideal de leurs sevres
lis ont l'ivresse du baiser,

Sans avoir a subir les livres ! J

And let us hope they were happy. There you are,
sir, tit for tat ! "

It was a pretty idea, and Mrs Fonblanque's French
exceedingly taking.

CHAPTEK VIII.

For a few minutes more we continued our walk along
the Bussorah canal ; but as I was thinking over what
she said, and was, in spite of her liveliness, rather
silent in consequence, Mrs Fonblanque proposed before
very long that we should take our seats in the
belle. The tide was ebbing slowly. We told the
men to let the boat drift with it. I lit a cigar, and,
as I was lighting it, Mrs Fonblanque said, " Shall I
sing you a little song, Mr Hicks ? just to begin our
charming day, you know, and to show how unnecessarily
concerned you were just now about my heterodox
views. What I said about wishing to be a man
and to have a woman's head on a man's shoulders was
all nonsense, of course. I know as well as you do, if
you would only be good enough to talk, that I am
much nicer as it is. But we women are nothing, Mr
Hicks, if not contradictory. You remember that old
cavalier poem about ' the clean contrary way ' ? Well,
that is one of the secrets of our power that all we

women know and don't often betray. Every woman,
no matter how plain she may be, thinks she rules the
little world around her ; and to-day, at all events, I
mean to rule you if I can. I offered to sing you a
little song, sir, to charm away your moodiness, as
David charmed Saul's — and you have nothing to say
in answer. Wait a moment. Now I have it."

Then, in a clear, rich, mezzo-soprano voice, Mrs
Fonblanque began: —

When a lady says ' nay,'
She is only in play ;

She is waiting for you to guess
As to how many ' noes '
In your heart you suppose

Should go to a lady's ' yes.'

You believe her ; she sighs,
There are tears in her eyes ;

But she laughs behind her fan,
For, like all of her sex,
She knows how to perplex

Her natural enemy, man !

So I pray you beware
Of the terrible snare

That lurks in a lady's ' no ' !
Prove her * no ' to be wrong,
You are her slave lifelong,

And woe to the vanquished ! woe ! "

I shivered at the words of this wretched doggerel,
but Mrs Fonblanque's voice was so full and sympathetic,

that the last line sobbed along the water as
if it had been part and parcel of some grand immortal
poem. Then, to my horror, it came back again in a
kind of unearthly screech —

Woe to the vanquished ! woe ! "

We both started and looked round.

The girls from one of the date-packing factories had
run out to stare at us, and were trying in a timid
noisy sort of way to mimic Mrs Fonblancjue.

"It almost serves you right," I said, "for singing;
such rubbish. Who on earth taught you a thing like
that ? "

One of those large and limp replicas of myself of
whom I told you before we began our charming day,"
replied Mrs Fonblanque, mildly. " I can sing, and you
can paint, and some day, perhaps, I will really sing to
you. But neither you nor I could make a living by
packing dates as these girls do."

Of course we could not," I said ; " it is not our
vintner. We move on another plane altogether. You
can sing, as you say, and I can paint. My daubs are
perhaps no better than your doggerel, but there is an
individuality behind them, and there is no individuality
in date-packing."

Perhaps not," she answered. " I wouldn't like to
sing for my daily bread, though, and whenever I come

face to face with honest labour I feel terribly ashamed
of myself."

Oh, if your conscience pricks you," I said, " you
can very easily solace it."

How ? " she cried, eagerly.

"The French Eothschild," I replied, "could never
have made a livelihood by keeping any one of his
own clerks' books. But he was a millionaire ten times
over. That was his individuality. A communist,
madam, of your way of thinking started a little
journal calling for an instant redistribution of property,
especially of the Eothschild property. M.
Eothschild asked him to look in. ' There, my man
he said, giving him a napoleon, ' there's your share
and a little over, for there are more than ten million
men in the same plight as yourself ! ' "

Mrs Fonblanque told the boatmen to stop, and she
flung the contents of her purse among the girls.

Now," she continued, as they scrambled in the mud
for her coins, " I can impartially protest against the
French Eothschild's way of squaring up accounts, and
I can "

Just then, however, we were run into by a little belle
which sank at once, and I had to interrupt our conversation
by going overboard — a horrible nuisance in
such muddy waters — to pick up its passenger. Seizing
him as best I could, I dragged him alongside our

boat, when, to my amazement and perplexity, I found
I had hold of my venerable and friendly Arab
Sheik.

We were both, in the local fashion, most profuse in
apologies to each other — he for taking me into the
water, and I for pulling him out. As we talked,
however, the Sheik appeared to shiver a little, and
Mrs Fonblanque, in spite of all the old gentleman's
remonstrances, insisted upon wrapping him up in her
costume to keep the wind out. She buttoned it herself,
so there was no more to be said, and there was a quiet
dignity about his white beard and grave eyes that prevented
him looking absurd.

We were talking, sir," she said, as calmly as if she
were addressing a partner in a ball-room — " we were
talking, when you came up, about the painful position
of women in Europe. A gentleman was telling me
only last night that their position in Asia is in every
way more suited to their character. Perhaps you can
enlighten us a little."

Madam," he replied, courteously, " it is a subject
to which I have given much thought and a good deal
of practical attention. I have, it is true, only three
wives myself. But stay ! It is hardly modest of me
to speak of my wives before your husband."

Oh, that is all right ! " she said, laughing. " He
is not my husband, and the crew don't know any

English. If you think it would make matters easier,
I can add the veil to your picturesque costume."

He smiled in a sedate, oriental sort of way. " I
have only three wives," he continued, " and it is hardly
fair to generalise on insufficient data. On the other
hand, they happen to be very different in age,
temperament, and appearance. Nour Mahal, who is
the youngest, I keep in the oriental fashion; and
Zuleika, who is ten years older, has charge of the
key. Dear old Fatima, my first wife, madam, and
the mother of all my children, is free to go about in
the European way. But she is very fond of me and
intensely proud, and I must say that she keeps herself
much more closely veiled than either of the other two."

I see," said Mrs Fonblanque. " But do they never
fight ? "

Oh, that," he answered, " is no business of mine.
I see scratches sometimes certainly, and younger men,
I believe, regard them as tokens of affection. I am,
however, too old to have any deceptions of that kind
left. You may take it that my three wives don't fight
any more than that gentleman's wife and his two
sisters (if he have any sisters and they all live
together in the English fashion) fight at home, and
he is weak enough to allow any echoes of their
quarrels to reach him."

"I think him weak enough for anything, Sheik,"

said Mrs Fonblanque. " But I don't believe he has a
wife, so it does not much matter."

Not married ! " said the Sheik, looking askance at
me. " Grown up and not married ! "

Here I tried to explain the exact position of my
domestic affairs, but Mrs Fonblanque silenced me at
once. " Please don't interrupt us," she said. " It is,
I assure you quite against the rules of oriental
etiquette even to allow you to listen."

I certainly shan't listen if I am not allowed to
talk," I retorted.

But at that moment the belle struck against the
ladder. The old Sheik seemed to be too stiff to move.
I assisted Mrs Fonblanque on to the first step.

Poor old man ! " she said, " he is wet through. I
hope he has not taken his death of cold. I shall send
Priscilla to see that he has a hot bath with half a pound
of mustard in it. Priscilla ! " she cried, " Priscilla ! "

Oh, you must not do that," I remonstrated. " He
is an Arab sheik, remember, and you said you knew all
about oriental etiquette."

Nonsense ! " she replied, but not unpleasantly.
He is an old man, and a very nice old man, and heat
all events, helped me to spend a charming day. I
want to learn a good deal more about his wives. Priscilla
! Priscilla!"

There is a party from the Eesidency waiting to say

good-bye," said one of the ship's officers, touching his
cap to her.

"Thank you," she answered. "Pray make my
excuses. I can't see any one to-night."

Then, when he had gone, she said to me quietly,
Let me know when they go, Mr Hicks ; and do
please find Priscilla."

CHAPTER IX.

How the cocks crew all that night !

"Those birds are paying you a rare compliment,"
said I to the chief officer, as I stumbled across him in
the dark after dinner. "They evidently take your
engineer's efforts to get up steam for the glowing
burst of early dawn."

"Not they, sir," he answered, accepting a cigar.
"They are far too wide awake for that. They crow
a little louder, if anything, at midnight than at dawn ;
and we don't happen to be doing much yet in the way
of getting up steam. We can't take in our horses at
Mohammedan till daybreak, and we needn't start till
three."

Why don't you take your horses in here ? "

They won't let us. We are not allowed to bribe
the officials, and you can take little in at Bussorah,
and put very little out, without a good deal of palm-oil.
The Custom-house people, who thought they
were doing a rare good stroke of business when they

clapped a heavy export duty on horses, cut their own
throats. The Company won't let us bribe them, and
so the horse-dealers bribe the frontier officials instead,
and smuggle their horses across from Koweit. Officially
the trade is completely stopped because no duty
is paid, but in reality more horses than ever are exported.
A queer people ! "

And queer birds," I said ; " I never heard a cockcrow
like that even in a London suburb at daybreak."

"Oh, that's nothing," replied the chief officer.
"When a cock crows in Bussorah you hear him at
Teheran. So the proverb says, — all the cocks along the
line taking up the cry, I suppose. It's a queer country,
and wants something to keep it awake. But the cocks
are not as bad as the watchmen. Listen ! "

A shrill, strident, melancholy cry that began in the
neighbourhood of the agent's bungalow was just then
caught up far and near, dying away at last in the remote
reaches of the Bussorah canal.

Why is that ? " I asked.

To keep thieves away," he answered. " There is
no law here. It's every one and his watchmen for
himself."

No law ! Why, I escorted a lady through the
bazaar to-day, and I never saw a quieter place, or
people more sedate."

You were lucky, sir," he replied. " Very few of

the ladies here ever venture beyond their own compounds.
Indeed, I know one lady who has not been
out of her garden for seven years. There is a certain
amount of surly courtesy by daylight. But it is never
much at the best, and it all disappears after sundown.
There are thirty watchmen armed with rusty old blunderbusses
round our agent's office now, and there are
not twice that number of police in the whole of Bus-sarah."


You astonish me ! "

I can't help that, sir. Last time we were here
there was a big fire in the native town, and the soldiers
sent to put it out did all the looting."

The rascals ! " I cried. " I thought they looked a
particularly fine body of men."

Oh, the men are good enough. It's the system.
Everybody above them handles their pay before they
get it, and they are generally eighteen months or two
years in arrears. They must live somehow. They pay
for nothing. They steal what they can lay hold of.
They sell all they can get at, and I don't suppose there
is a single cartridge in the garrison now. The men
sell their ammunition to the Arabs, and sometimes
they sell their rifles too, and the officers aren't say a
word. Wait a bit ; there is the English gunboat we've
been expecting coming in now from Bushire. What's
that ? "

VOL. I. F

That's their salute," I replied.

Count their guns. How many ? "

Twenty-one," I said, after an interval.

Eight you are. Now count the number of guns
the Turkish gunboat fires back."

I waited some time.

They are rather long about it," I said.

Long about it ! Why, they haven't a charge of
powder on board. They sold it all last Tuesday."

That's a pretty state of things."

Well, yes. You come from Bagdad, I take it. I
ran up there this time last year, and the Sultan was
buying all the land round about."

Yes," I said ; " and what has that got to do with
the ammunition ? "

A good deal. No one is allowed to bid against the
Sultan, and he bought several big estates for next to
nothing. That is what all the officials are always trying
to do. It is a queer country. But look at my arm."

He rolled his sleeve up under a lamp.

That is a pretty good sample of a sabre-cut. We
were moored here right under the stern of a British
man-of-war when I got that, and I was pitched into
the hold directly afterwards, and so were the other
five English officers. The lascar crew were supposed
to be asleep, and the scoundrels got away with all our
specie."

"What did you do?"

Well, you see, I had managed to mark my man
with a belaying-join before I went down, and as our
chief Turkish shipper, and one of our best friends,
happened to have a corresponding mark next morning,
we said nothing to the police. We kept him on board to
doctor him for a day or two. Then somehow or other
our specie came back, and now we are better friends
than ever. I saw you give him a shove aside this evening,
when you came up the gangway with the lady."

This casual allusion to Mrs Fonblanque reminded
me that I had never told her of the departure of the
visitors from the Eesidency. They had dined on board,
and made themselves so extremely agreeable that we
had been longer than usual over dinner.

I went down below and shouted for Priscilla. This
time she came at once.

Oh, Mr Hicks," said Mrs Fonblanque, suddenly
appearing, " I hope I am in time to prevent Priscilla
scolding you. I don't want to be forestalled. Why,
why have I been condemned to three hours' solitary
confinement ? Priscilla tells me that they left at
half-past eight, and now it's nine. What did they
say of me ? "

"They said nothing."

I suppose your fat little Armenian lady came with
them."

No, she didn't."

Then I apologised in a sufficiently humble manner,
and we went on deck.

"Do you know, Mr Hicks," said Mrs Fonblanque,
after I had settled her comfortably in a canvas chair,
that though I am generally travelling, I hate it, and
that there is nothing I dislike so much as change ?
I certainly would not care to stop in Bussorah, but
still I feel sorry to leave it. Why is that ? "

Perhaps without knowing it you are a Conservative
at heart."

I don't think so," she answered. " My instincts,
I fancy, are rather the other way. But, indeed, I
don't think I ever had the chance of being anything
definite. And what sort of a man would you be, I
wonder, if you had never been a boy ? "

Ah ! But that was a long time ago."

"No, no, not very long ago. At all events, you
were a boy once, and a very nice boy too, I should
think ; fond of boyish games, fond of the pets you
kept, and fonder still of the other boys about you, and
frank and free and very boyish."

I could hardly be expected to discuss a question
referring so personally to the prehistoric ages.

Well," she continued after a pause, " I have never
been a girl, and so I suppose I missed the best part of
a woman's life. I have never had a pet. I don't

believe I ever played a game. I have had no girlish
friends. If I look into a child's book now, it's all
Greek to me. What should I know about Dora
Greenwich's pictures and Caldecott's, the snow and
the waits, the red berries, the mistletoe, the holly,
and the rest of it ? Why, I was a woman at fourteen,
and, looking back a little, I seem to be terribly
old."

Oh no ! " I exclaimed gallantly ; " I'm sure you
can't be thirty yet."

Well, no," she said, smiling in the lamplight, " not
thirty ; but I am twenty-four."

And I am twenty-five ! " I cried, delighted to have
got the better of her at last.

Are you really ? You don't look twenty-five, Mr
Hicks. Yes, yes, you do, if you are really huffed.
But you haven't been a man for ten years. You were
not born and bred in this wretched Indian climate.
And yet, in spite of your additional twelve months, I
am sure you will never be able to order me about as I
do you."

Men don't order women about."

No ? Not at twenty-five, perhaps ; and yet there
is nothing women like better. You really must take
a few lessons from the Sheik. He is a dear old creature,
and, I should think, very wise. Fancy three
women doting on him ! "

Stop, Mrs Fonblanque, stop ! He never said they
doted on him."

"I fancy they do, though, Mr Hicks. Did you
notice how he pretended to give in at once to rae
about wearing that absurd costume of mine, and how
pleasantly, in describing his three wives, he suggested
that I ought to be kept locked up ? "

That's exactly what Mr Wylie said last night."

"Don't speak to me of Mr Wylie, Mr Hicks. I
forbid you ever to mention him again."

And pray, Mrs Fonblanque, don't speak to me of
the Sheik."

Mrs Fonblanque laughed. " You are a most teachable
man, Mr Hicks. You are beginning to order me
about already, and I really almost like it. But why
don't we start ?"

We shan't start till three," I said, severely ; " three
in the morning."

What a nuisance ! If I have to travel, I like to be
kept moving. But I really can't go to bed yet. ~No,
don't be frightened. I certainly can't keep awake till
three ; but tell the steward to bring you a 
on deck before the bar is closed, and then light
another cheroot, and we will have a good long chat."

Now," continued Mrs Fonblanque, putting her fan
down after the steward had disappeared, "tell me
candidly what you think of me."

I would rather you allowed me to paint your portrait
first."

"Why?"

Why ? Partly because, if I painted your portrait
properly, I should paint your real character as well ;
and partly because, whether I did my work properly
or not, it would occupy me for at least ten days, and
so I should, at all events, know you much better than
I do now."

You don't believe in first impressions, then ? "

Yes," I said, doubtfully ; " I always believed in first
impressions till last night. And then "

And then ? Be cautious, Mr Hicks."

Well, as an artist I like you. I never saw a face
like yours. Your hair is the hair of the old Grecian
goddesses, and your eyes — well, I could, perhaps,
paint them in a picture, but I can't describe them."

Mrs Fonblanque half rose as she shook her fan at
me, and made me a charming little courtesy.

If you will really allow me to paint you," I continued,
"I think I shall make one of the finest
pictures in the world. But please let me paint you
before you ask anything more."

I shall do nothing of the kind. Though you seem
to think a good deal more of your art than you do of
me, I don't know whether you can paint or not. And
I don't care for impressions ten days old. I have

asked a frank question. Give me a frank answer.
What do you think of me now, Mr Hicks, and what
did you think of me when you saw me first ? "

Oh — then ? I thought you very beautiful indeed,
and very unreasonably angry."

And now ? "

"All my artistic instincts are with you, and your
eyes and your hair. But "

"But . . . what?"

"Well, when I told you my name, you said you
liked the Hector but didn't know about the Hicks;
and in the same way I like the Fonblanque, and don't
quite know about the Wylie."

"You dare to couple my name with that man's,"
she cried, "and that two minutes after I had distinctly
told you never to mention him in my hearing
again ! Do you know how dreadfully rude you are,
Mr Hicks ? You may drink your whisky-and-soda
by yourself now. I have a good mind to tell that
dear, courteous old Sheik about your rudeness. He
would never have said such a mean and ungallant
thing as that."

He will tell his three wives if you do," I retorted,
feeling a little uncomfortable as she rose.

Of course he will," said Mrs Fonblanque, beginning
to move away; " and I hope he will tell everybody how
disagreeable you contrive to make yourself."

"Perhaps he will," I cried, just before she disappeared;
"but he'll know that I was right after
all."

That was not a very pleasant way of beginning a
long sea voyage, was it ?

CHAPTEK X.

In spite of crowing cocks, noisy watchmen, rattling
chains, and swarms of bloodthirsty sand flies, I managed
to tide over the night. I awoke, however, in a
sulky sort of morning nightmare that many men feel,
I imagine, when they happen to have made fools of
themselves overnight. It is a peculiar feeling this,
and intensely disagreeable while it lasts, for you
cannot, for the life of you, help cross - examining
yourself in the cruellest and abruptness manner. The
Quartermaster, who was superintending the washing
of the decks, understood it at once. He laughed
when I explained my symptoms and invited his sympathy,
and then without asking my leave he turned
one of his lascars' hoses upon me as I stood there,
and played away lustily until I felt quite braced and
robust again.

Cold water is a grand thing," cried I, shaking myself
like a Newfoundland dog.

And a capital cure for whisky, hot or cold," said

the Quartermaster. " The deck of a steamer, sir, with
the salt water playing about it, is a hydropathic establishment
in miniature. ' Canst thou not minister to a
mind diseased ? ' asks Shakespeare. I think I can.
A man with a hose in his hand can drive the cobwebs
out of anybody's brains in a minute or two, while
the use of a coarse towel afterwards makes everything
much pleasant all round."

This was pretty good for a rough-tongued Quartermaster
on an Indian steamer at daybreak. When I
last chanced to pass through Burnham Green we encountered
a large charity school, walking two and two.
They will all be philosophers and scholars some day,
Hector," said my uncle, shrugging his shoulders, " and
if you and I can't pay for their forcing-beds we shall
lose our raison clever

I remembered the charity school, and so the Quartermaster's
language scarcely surprised me. Soaked
though I was to the skin, I had only come face to
face with my uncle's problem, and the old man's
crotchets still seemed so quaint and kindly that I tried
to put myself in his place and to speak as like him as
I could.

Ah ! you are something of a scholar, and a bit of
a philosopher," I remarked, pulling my wet sleeping-jacket
decently around me.

"Not I, sir," replied the Quartermaster. "I am

only a married man, but I happened to be on duty last
night when the lady gave you her mind."

Dear me ! " I said, almost involuntarily ; " the lady
you speak of is nothing to me, and our casual acquaintance
seems to have attracted a very unnecessary
amount of attention."

Well," answered the Quartermaster, looking at me
keenly, "I know nothing of that. But the ladies,
God bless them ! have no business on board ship.
Polly, poor lass, may scold me as much as she likes
when she has stowed the bairns away in their bunks
in our little cottage at Whitby, and I am all the
better of it. It does a man good, when he is ashore,
to be henpecked and hen cooped. Once shipped, I
like, of course, to think of Polly and the bairns when
I am swinging in my hammock down below, but as
soon as I am on deck again I try to do my duty to the
ship."

The mere thought of Polly and her bairns, four or
five thousand miles away though they were, gave a
sudden pathetic depth to the Quartermaster's honest
brown eyes.

We are queer creatures. Somehow or other the
Quartermaster had touched a chord that might some
day, perhaps, make the sweetest music in the world tome,
and, rough as he was, I looked at him in real
admiration.

I should like to typify you and Polly, if you will
let me," I said, humbly. " I think I can almost see my
way towards reconciling my uncle to the problem."

Thank you kindly, sir," answered the Quartermaster,
removing his quid. " But neither Polly nor I
know anything of your uncle or the problem. No
offence, sir ; but suppose you typify yourself first, and
do the best you can for Number One. Take my
advice, sir. You seem to be shivering a little just
now. Walk the quarter-deck for an hour, and you'll
have an appetite for breakfast. I know nothing about
typifying, but walk, sir, walk."

I hope you didn't think me too abrupt," I began,
in offering to typify you and Mrs . . . Mrs Polly."

No, no ! " said he. " Not I — I am not a scholar ;
but I spent a fortnight once at Aberdeen, and all the
professors there walked like mad. They had the instinct
of it. They taught me a wrinkle that no philosophy
can ever teach. Only get a hearty appetite, sir,
and you won't care a fig for all the troubles and all
the women in the world, let alone typifying Polly and
me."

I smiled at the worthy Quartermaster's advice, but
nevertheless I followed it, as I always follow the
advice I smile at. It is the advice I don't smile at
that I don't follow. I walked the quarter-deck till I
was tired, and as the ship was already at anchor, and

the deck very limited in area, the experiment was not
exactly lively. However, I made a comfortable and
very leisurely toilet before I went in to breakfast.

Never, perhaps, out of Noah's ark were a more incongruous
set of living creatures gathered together
for the simple purpose of taking food in common.
At the top of the table, of course, sat our skipper
a bluff, tough old salt, if ever there was oue —
with keen eyes, a hard mouth, and closely cropped
grey whiskers. His weather-beaten face, twisted and
contorted into twenty different kindly humours, would
have betrayed him at any table in the world, while
his easy roll as he walked was unmistakable. You
could not, however, talk to him for five minutes
without learning that, if things had gone right, he
ought to have been a cavalry officer. On his right
sat Mrs Fonblanque, charming as ever, and trying
not to look querulous after an uneasy night. On
his left there was an uncommonly pretty young Nun
from one of the Catholic nunneries in Teheran. The
white band across her forehead only acted as a foil
to her faint blushes. She blushed faintly whenever
her eyes drooped, and that was whenever anybody
looked at her. Beside her sat the Sheik. He came
in late, as I did. But when Mrs Fonblanque sent
Priscilla for him, he came without further hesitation ;
and as the gentle little Nun, in alarm, perhaps, at

his appearance, half rose from her seat, he courteously
waved her to her place, sat down beside her,
and helped her to fish.

I had just come out of my cabin at the time, and,
with my hand on the chair next Mrs Fonblanque's,
I was admiring the typical contrast between the
Sheik and the Nun, when a gentleman said, " By
your leave, sir," and tried to slip into it. I had
taken the precaution of putting my card on the plate
before I went to dress, and so I felt quite justified
in saying sotto voce, " Confound your impudence ! "
He stared at me, and then, taking the seat next
mine, he tried to make the Nun talk, and failed
signally. Then he was good enough to talk to me;
but as the Captain and I were full of some extraordinary
new method of attack by cavalry — a horse-marine
sort of business at the best — he did not get
much change out of that. Imperturbable to the last,
he appealed to Mrs Fonblanque, and to my intense
disgust she replied briskly. I held on with the skipper
as long as I could. But Mrs Fonblanque's impressive
interest in my neighbour's vapid talk was
a little too much for me.

I had been quite right in the language I had used
at first. He was evidently a man who required sitting
upon.

Really, sir," I said quietly, giving his elbow a jog

so as to make him upset the coffee-pot, " I must
ask you to be good enough not to mistake me for
your coffee-cup."

A thousand pardons ! " he cried, looking round
at me rather curiously for a moment. " A thousand
pardons ! I was saying, madam," he continued, " that
life on board ship is always pleasant. One's fellow-passengers
are always amiable. Everybody puts his
best side forward, and if the voyage is not too long,
you have no time to find out that there is such a
thing as a reverse side. I assure you," he added,
turning to me, "you have no sort of resemblance to
a coffee-cup."

I really don't think he has," said Mrs Fonblanque.
What do you say, Mr Hicks ? "

I am afraid I didn't catch the first part of the
gentleman's remarks."

Oh, that doesn't matter. It had nothing whatever
to do with what he says just now," she replied, looking
rather amused at my discomfiture.

I had never been called a coffee-cup before, and I
thought that they might both be laughing at me. This
was intolerable. It was time to turn the tables.

I began mildly. " You have travelled much ? "

Oh no," he answered. " I have done most things
most men do. I have been round the world three or
four times. I have been a cow-boy in Chili, and a

diamond seeker at the Cape. I have practised at the
Bar. I have served on the Jury. I have had to hang
a man or two with my own hands. A mere accident,"
he explained, turning to the Nun, who had
shivered a little as he spoke ; " they might have had
to hang me."

This is most interesting," said Mrs Fonblanque ;
and besides all this ? "

Oh ! " he said lightly, now that he had got the
whip-hand of the skipper and me, " I have edited a
newspaper — of course a hanging matter in itself anywhere
— and then I have taught in the Sunday-school,
managed a line of steamers, been through a couple of
campaigns, kept a dry-goods store in the gold-fields,
and a billiard-saloon in Little Windmill Street."

Bless my soul ! " said Mrs Fonblanque, drawing
her chair towards the Captain's, " what an extraordinary
man you must be ! "

No," he answered ; " there are thousands like me.
I am a representative man if you like, an unripe product
of the nineteenth century. I am just a trifle
before my day. That is all. In a few years more
anybody who wants to do anything, or write anything
worth attending to, will have to follow in my footsteps.
The world now is the only schoolroom for grown-up
men, the only field in which a man can show what he
is made of."

VOL. I. G

And what are you made of, sir ? " asked Captain
Forbes.

Common clay, not China clay," he said quietly, —
of the sins and follies, and foibles and virtues, of my
ancestors, such as they were. We are," he continued,
helping himself to marmalade — " we are all puppets,
and our forebears pull the strings. When I do anything
mean, or when a glow of genuine enthusiasm
goes through me, I say, ' That's the first Norman baron,'
'that's the daughter of the Lady Mayoress.' I only
wish I could start fresh, clean, and unblemished from
a sculptor's packing-case. Then I might have a future.
Now my future, like yours, sir, is behind me. Still
there are potentialities about this new departure and
this vagabond life of mine, and the next great poet
must be able to express them."

The Nun's astonished but very soft and eloquent
eyes fell upon him like a tranquil blessing, and even
the skipper began to be interested.

What do you think, Sheik ? " I said, fairly aroused
at last.

I never think," said the Sheik. " A hundred
thousand pardons, Captain ! It was stupid of me. I
spilt my coffee accidentally, and not at all in approval
of their little accident."

The Sheik was evidently on my side. Encouraged
by this unexpected support, I had just begun to frame

a withering retort to my neighbour's claims of an
illustrious ancestry, when I heard the chief officer
address the enemy.

I think I saw you, mister, outside a little tent on
the canal the day before yesterday, inviting the public
to come in and be photographed ? "

You did, sir," he said. " That is my present
line of business. One's ancestors hamper one terribly,
but they forgot to supply bread and butter. They
leave us to settle pecuniary matters for ourselves ; and
on the whole, it may be best. I hope, madam," he
said to Mrs Fonblanque, " that when the voyage becomes
tedious, I shall have the pleasure of taking your
portrait."

Oh ! " said Mrs Fonblanque, smiling, " that is just
what the other gentleman wants to do."

It is as I thought, sir," cried he. " I ought never
to have mistaken your physiognomy for a moment.
We are — of course we are — brothers in Art."

I looked so ineffably disgusted, that the Nun and
the Sheik both began to tell their beads. This gave
the Sheik fresh confidence, and, after a decent interval,
he broke the pause by asking if I had finished my
painting of Ezra's Tomb.

Oh, I see it all now ! " interrupted my abominable
neighbour. " You are only a painter, and you are still
a little bit huffed because the sun has put your nose

out of joint. I appeal to you, madam, impartially.
What is the use of being a painter nowadays ? I tried
it myself fifteen years back. The whole thing is played
out. I'd far rather make tombstones than paint them.
One must move on with the times."

I must move, at all events," said the Captain,
gruffly. " They seem to be letting the horses kick the
ship to pieces."

Don't go on deck yet," said my neighbour as the
ladies rose. " Come to the bar and have a cocktail."

I was about to give him my mind pretty freely,
when Mrs Fonblanque touched me on the shoulder
and said, " I want to speak to you, Mr Hicks."

Unfortunately, however, I never learned what she
wanted to tell me. Captain Forbes (as he liked to be
called) was waiting for us at the top of the companion,
and there was no escape from his hospitable arm.
Mrs Fonblanque took it, withdrawing her arm from
mine with a gentle pressure which, though I could not
even at the time interpret it properly, seemed full of
eloquent meaning. She gave me a look more eloquent
still. "Had I a speaking-trumpet," she seemed to
signal, " I might perhaps explain everything. Nothing
short of that would possibly help us in this awful
hurly-burly, and that would probably spoil all our
mutual confidences."

I tacitly acquiesced. And, indeed, the deck as we

saw it, coming fresh from the saloon, was a Babel, a
Chaos, a Kingdom of Honyhuhum.

There were horses alongside in huge barges, horses
in mid-air, horses on deck, and Arab and Persian
horse-keepers everywhere with Persian cats and Persian
greyhound pups under their arms. Such a jabbering,
neighing, barking, mewing, praying, swearing,
was surely never heard before.

That is Mohammareh," shouted the Captain, leading
us aft.

And what is Mohammareh ? " asked Mrs Fons
when we were well on the edge of the row.

That is Mohammareh," continued Captain Forbes,
pointing to a line of low, insignificant brick-buildings
and mud-huts. " Not much to look at it, is it ? And
yet, if the Shah would only bestir himself, he could
make it into a second Liverpool."

I doubt if that would be desirable," I said, curtly.
I hate Liverpool. But why, and how ? "

From the tone in which I spoke, Mrs Fonblanque
seemed to divine that I had not quite forgiven Captain
Forbes for taking her away from me.

Why, Captain Forbes ? " she asked gently, so as to
remove the last remnant of a grievance on my part.

Why, madam ? " said the Captain, coolly taking
her left hand in his right and using it as a pointer.
Look before you. We are not on the Shet-el-Arab

now, but on a canal as old, at all events, as Herodotus
who described it. The canal connects our river in less
than a mile with the Karun, a river almost as big as
ours, and quite as important " — and here he gave Mrs
Fonblanque's hand a quite unnecessary nourish. " But
though the Karun river runs right through the most
fertile part of Persia, the Shah won't allow a single
steamer on it."

And why is the Shah permitted to object ? " I
asked.

Why ? Because England is nowhere now at
Teheran, and because, like it or not, he has to take
his orders from the Czar. An English Karun Ever
Flotilla Company could change Persia into a rich
country tomorrow, and give her as much gold as she
wants for the corn and wool that have to lie there and
rot there now. As it is, Persia is bankrupt, and
Mohammareh is nowhere."

Why do you stop here, then ?" said Mrs Fonblanque,
rather pettishly, regaining possession of her left hand,
and favouring me with a side-glance of immense
relief.

For our horses," answered the Captain. " Their
absurd restrictions compel us to smuggle our horses onboard
somewhere, and tins is a convenient spot. The
Sheik's people are always obliging, and very different
from the Custom-house officers at Bussorah. You

heard us fire a gun off early this morning ? That is
all the backsheesh they want ; and there is not much
change to be got out of that, for they always return
the salute."

I heard their guns go," said Mrs Fonblanque.

That is their battery over there," said the skipper,
handing me his glasses. " There, beyond the Sheik's
pretty little English steam-yacht, you see a very old
and very tall fig-tree, the biggest and oldest fig-tree I
ever saw, but not so old as the battery of rusty old
Portuguese guns below it."

Can't we go there and look at the guns ? " I asked.
"Are the Sheik's people worth a visit ? "

That depends," said Captain Forbes, " on what you
expect to find. They were a set of bloodthirsty
pirates until his wife made old Hadji Djaber respectable.
She was a wonderful woman, if you like, and
ruled him with a rod of iron for five-ands twenty
years."

A Circassian lady, I presume ? " said the Sheik,
who, having finished his hubble-bubble in some retired
corner of the quarter-deck, had unexpectedly joined
our party.

I think she was," replied the Captain, " and anyhow
a rare good sort. She was fond of her old man
and her own way. She knew that old gentlemen like
him joke about their old wives."

How extremely rude ! " said Mrs Fonblanque.

Oh, I don't know," answered Captain Forbes.
I am not a married man myself, but I can quite
understand an old buffer like me saying to another old
buffer, what some one said a long time before either of
us were born, that when your wife is forty years old,
you ought to be allowed to change her for two of
twenty."

Stop, stop, Captain Forbes ! " cried Mrs Fons


If you have never heard anything worse than that,
madam, you have never heard much that will hurt
you. In the mouth of an Englishman that's a very
harmless joke. But in the case of a good Mohammedan

with a large harem, it might, I own, play the very

It might, I mean, be awkward."

Pray, say what you mean," said Mrs Fonblanque
severely, " and tell us how it was that Mrs Hadji
Djaber brought her husband to his senses."

Thank you, ma'am," replied the Captain ; " there's
nothing like plain sailing after all, and when you areas
old as she was, you will care as little as she did for
anybody's criticism. She went into the background
herself, and made it her business to have the country
round scoured for new wives for her husband."

What a dreadful old woman ! " exclaimed Mrs
Fonblanque, adjusting her wraps with a shiver.

"She really must have been a Circassian," said
the Sheik. " They are the cleverest women in the
world."

She was all that," said the Captain. " She gave
him as many fresh wives as he liked. She kept a
Multa of her own to marry them, and a list of deserving
officials, who would be proud to provide a
home for them afterwards, and she never had a rival
in her life ! "

I must tell Fatima of this," said the Sheik to Mrs
Fonblanque. " She is a good, faithful old creature,
but intensely Conservative. Her views in this way
are sadly behind the age. But ever since I bought
her, Fatima has been an aristocrat at heart, and if
anything a trifle too much inclined to follow the
habits of the aristocracy. And after all, the Sheik
of Mohammareh is somebody."

I should think so," cried the Captain. " He has a
steady income of six hundred thousand krauns a-year.
He is a good deal thought of locally, and well looked
after in high quarters, I can tell you. Every now and
then the Governor of Far pays him the compliment
of a state visit, which lasts until it is worth the
Sheik's while to give his Highness something handsome
to retire."

"Their arrangements seem to be very funny all
round," said Mrs Fonblanque. " Come, Captain

Forbes, won't you allow Mr Hicks and me to
interview this eccentric old couple ? "

Very sorry, ma'am," said the Captain, gruffly.
The steamer sails directly, and the old Sheik and his
wife both happen to be dead and buried. Their son,
Sheik Ouzel, isn't worth a visit, and, if rumour is
true, doesn't care much for ladies' society. It is
almost quiet now forward. Come and see them
taking in the last of the horses instead."

CHAPTER XL

A ship always reminds me of a big machine' I said
to Mrs Fonblanque, as soon as the Captain had safely
ensconced us all on the bridge.

Another type ! Take care, take care, Mr Hicks !
That typical palm-tree almost did for you. But a ship
is a big machine. What else could it remind you
of?"

Of fifty thousand things, if I were in the humour
for them," I replied. " But you are right. It is a big
machine. Captain Forbes pulls a handle, rings a bell,
or gives a shout, and the whole mechanism, after a
groan or two from stem to stern, implicitly obeys him.
Look at the horses they are taking in. A sailor and a
horse have about as little in common as any two living
creatures, and yet "

I beg your pardon, Mr Hicks," said the Captain,
impressively. " You are altogether out. The ship
groans because the agents won't put her steering gear
in order ; they are to blame, not me ; and quite apart

from that, no one can manage a horse like a sailor.
Look at my men taking in their horses."

"That is exactly what I wanted Mrs Fonblanque
to look at," I answered, " and that is exactly what I
meant when I talked of your ' mechanical system.' It
is simply perfect."

Our mechanical system be . . . blessed," cried
the Captain.

Look at them," exclaimed the Sheik, almost warming
into enthusiasm. " Look at those brutes of Persians.
Look at that one. They tie a rope round each of his
legs ; they fasten a sling round his body. See how he
kicks. It's no good. They hold on. He is hoisted
from the boat to the deck. He falls. No, he doesn't.
He picks himself up completely broken in, trots after
his horse-keeper like a lamb, and is quietly wedged in
between two strange horses. Wonderful ! I never
saw anything like it in the desert, where all our
horses are thoroughbreds, living and feeding with us
in our tents. ' A wise man to manage a woman, buta
wiser to manage a horse.' That is our proverb,
madam ; what do you say ? "

And what do you think, Mrs Fonblanque ? " asked
the Captain, considerably mollified. "You hear the
Sheik. He ought to know. Do you call this sailors'
mechanism ? "

"No," said Mrs Fonblanque, "of course I don't.

It's a very, very old trick. You frighten your horses,
and then they give in. Poor papa used to do it every
Sunday morning before church, though he wasn't a
sailor, and hadn't a ship to hoist his horses into."

Perhaps he had been a sailor ? " said the skipper.

Perhaps he had," rejoined Mrs Fonblanque. " He
must have been everything, I think, for he knew everything.
At all events he could break in the wildest
countrybreds in the half-hour before church by tying
their heads and tails together, and showing them they
were helpless. I used to beat a tin kettle in front so
as to frighten them — I was a child at the time — and
they used to spin round like teetotums, till they gave
in. Papa used to say that his plan was far kinder
and smarter than Early's."

I have not the slightest doubt of it," said the
Captain. " And yet Mr Hicks would tell you that it
was all mechanism, depending on the ropes between
the head and the tail."

According to my uncle, I always spent half my
time in getting myself thoroughly misunderstood,
and the other half in trying to prove my complete
acquiescence in everything that exists. Still, after
my morning's experience with the Quartermaster, I
could not well quote my uncle again.

I assure you, Captain Forbes," I said, " that when
I talked about mechanism, I simply meant to say that

you sailors had made your arrangements so perfect
that they could not possibly be bettered. Were it
necessary, I have no doubt you could take in a cargo
of elephants."

Well ! I don't know about a cargo," said the
Captain in his old genial way. " Elephants stow
badly. But I once took four in."

Oh ! how was that ? "

"The King of the Belgians," he replied, "thought that
a few educated Indian elephants would soon civilise all
the wild elephants in Africa if they only had the
chance. He put poor old Carter at the head of the
expedition."

Why poor old Carter ? " I interrupted.

Because we were all sorry to lose him, and because
we were all certain he would never come back. He
was as well known at Maagil and Bussorah as I
am on my own quarter-deck, and he was so much
of an Arab that they always called him the White
Sheik."

I never heard of any White Sheik in Arabia," said
the Sheik, sceptically, " and the lady was, I think, asking
you about the elephants ? "

Well, Carter was in charge of the elephants that
were to regenerate Africa. We shipped them at
Bombay without the least trouble, and my officers
and I laughed a little afterwards at the extraordinary

fuss they made at home about shipping Jumbo. Our
elephants, though, were failures from the first, and
instead of training the African elephants, they turned
wild themselves and bolted into the jungle."

"And the White Sheik ? " I asked.

Oh ! he was a failure too, so far as success goes.
He died, riddled through and through with assegais,
and that was the end of it. I only mentioned the
elephants to show what we could do. But I shouldn't
care to take any more elephants to Africa."

And the horses ? " I suggested. " I suppose you
make a good thing out of them. The ship is full of
horses. They must be worth a pot of money to you ? "

Not a red cent. They are so many pawn-tickets,
nothing more. It's a curious trade, and no one but
the captain of a British-India steamer can understand
it properly."

Why ? " asked Mrs Eonblanque, good-naturedly.

Why ? " answered the Captain. " Why ? because
no money changes hand. The dealers scour the
country, and pick up their horses anywhere between
this and Aleppo, and promise to pay for them when
they return from India. They pay us nothing for
carrying their horses down to Bombay. But we
keep all the horses on board until the stablemen
there bail them out by promising the freight; and
they don't let them out of their stables, you may be

sure, till their own charges are paid. The buyer
really pays everybody all round."

And man, as Buffon has it, is," I said, " the noblest
conquest of the horse."

It is very like the story of the old woman and
her pig," said Mrs Fonblanque, leaning on the rail;
"everything comes right in the end."

Yes," answered Captain Forbes ; " the dealers get
over the stile eventually, and go home passage free
with their pockets full of money."

An admirable system," cried the horrible man who
had separated Mrs Fonblanque and myself at breakfast,
and who had at last torn himself away from the
bar. " There is a future in that chain of childlike
confidences. What a splendid Limited Liability Company
one might make out of it without spending a
shilling in promotion money. I have knocked about
the world a good deal in my time, and here at last,
in this outlandish place, I find the very apotheosis
of credit."

Not credit, sir," said the Sheik, shortly. " Not
credit, but trust. A Bedouin," he continued, almost
glowering like an Englishman, " though you, sir, may
scarcely believe what I say, cannot tell a lie."

No ? " said the passenger, huskily.

No," said the Sheik, resuming his quiet, emphatic
Arab way. " All the horses you see here have been

picked up, haphazard fashion, from our travelling
encampments. The dealers, once they have the
money in their bags, often spend months in tracing
out the owners as they travel, and I have never yet
met an owner who had lost his money."

That is so," said the skipper. " Still your Bedouins
don't think much of robbery or murder on the road
down. They cut each other's throats, when they don't
get the chances of cutting anybody else's. They stuff
everything they come across into the saddle-bags in
which they keep their food and cooking-pots, — Persian
cats, greyhound puppies, old prayer-carpets, women's
finery, sheepskin coats, chunks of tea or tobacco, and
all the other odds and ends that clever thieves can
put together on the highroad. All the dogs and
cats and old carpets those men down below have are
stolen."

"That's another thing altogether," exclaimed the
Sheik, still keeping his eye on the passenger I so
intensely disliked. "They are rough, ignorant men,
I grant you ; but they never said they wouldn't
take what they found, or wouldn't kill whom they
could. That gentleman, however, seems to approve
of a deliberate lie in order that he, and what he calls
a Limited Liability Company, may make money out
of our implicit confidence in one another."

Never mind, Sheik," said Mrs Fonblanque ; " we
VOL. I. H

all want to make money. It's just the same in the
date trade."

The date trade and the horse trade are two very
different things, madam," he replied. " I breed horses
myself, and sell them ; but I'm neither a shopkeeper
nor a date merchant. No Arab ever yet sold a horse
without regretting it. And no Arab horse-dealer ever
lied over a horse, or tried to palm off an inferior
animal even on his worst enemy. We love our
horses too well for that. We envy their purchasers,
and then, our own reputations are staked on our
horses."

"They are not so particular in Europe, I assure
you," said the Captain. "It is the one trade therein
which a gentleman is allowed to tell a fib. I
bought a fine horse from a friend last time I was
laid up in the Victoria Docks ; and, in spite of his
warranty and a double allowance of oats, I could
not, for the life of me, persuade the beast to go
beyond the Minores. And what, I ask any of you,
is the use of a horse in Whitechapel when one wants
to ride in the Park ? "

Thank you, Captain," said the passenger, " you
evidently think "

"Never mind what I think," said the Captain,
rather roughly; "that's my business, not yours.

Time is up, Mr Hicks. You'll hear a good deal
more of those horses yet before you have done with
them. But I must ask you all to be good enough
to step down from the bridge, so as to let me get
our big machine, as you call it, under way again."

CHAPTER XII.

The river's banks, after we left Mohammareh, were
scarcely a foot above the water. The bank on the
starboard, side was still covered with an almost interminable
fringe of date-trees. Sometimes a narrow
opening revealed a sort of glade, a superior type of
what you see in the Alhambra every evening. Only
the Alhambra people, no matter how many lime-lights
they burn, can never really rival the effect of an
Arabian sun, as it is softened and mellowed by the
great leaves of a palm forest. Even Mrs Fonblanque,
who did not often agree with me, and who knew
nothing of the Alhambra, declared that she had never
seen anything quite so beautiful as these deep recesses,
now bright as emerald, and now gloomy and mysterious,
just as the waving palm-trees chose to admit the
sun's rays or to shut them out. Sometimes one of
these delightful openings showed us the outposts of
a village, with horses and camels, buffaloes, sheep,
and goats, nibbling at the herbage. Sometimes we

had a much closer view of the flocks and herds as
they were being watered in the river. But somewhere
in the background there was always a solitary
Arab custodian, and he was always leaning on his
spear.

Everything on the Persian bank, however, was
entirely different, for there the low alluvial banks
and the innumerable islands were covered only with
reeds and grass, and the country inland, as far as a
good glass could reach, was evidently swept by the
tide at high water.

After steaming in a leisurely way for an hour or
two we came to Fao, where the Turkish cable is
landed, and where for some inscrutable reason there
is a post-office. The three or four warlike buildings
that stood on a muddy cove, a long way in front of
the low range of distant palm-trees, scarcely seemed
to justify a weekly mail. However, the steamer came
to a dead halt.

"We stopped here coming up," said Mrs Fons
"and I should not like to go back without
knowing something of Fao. Now, gentlemen, which
of you will go ashore and bring me an entertaining
account of Fao ? "

It is all mud," replied the Sheik, " and if you are
really interested in mud, Madam Fonblanque, I think
you might perhaps take the trouble of nominating the

explorer. Were I a younger man I would myself
volunteer. But what do you say to nominating the
very talkative gentleman who sat next you at breakfast?"


The very man," cried Mrs Fonblanque. " But he
has disappeared. Where is he ? Please find him,
Mr Hicks."

I went, in what the passenger himself would probably
have called " an air line," straight to the bar ;
and, as he was having an altercation with the barman
at the time, he was delighted to carry out Mrs Fons
wishes. He started with the second officer
and the mail-bag — if a great wax seal on a little
rag of canvas can be dignified with the name. We
watched him pull ashore. Then, in about an hour
and a half he returned, looking rather more flushed
than when he left us.

It was good of you to go," said Mrs Fonblanque,
affably. " Come and tell us all about Fata

horrible place," he answered, deliberately sitting
down between Mrs Fonblanque and myself ; " a telegraph
station and nothing else. They only get nine
or ten messages a-day."

Why so few ? " asked Mrs Fonblanque.

Oh, the line runs on wooden posts, and when the
Arabs are pressed for firewood they cut a few posts
down; and whenever they are hard up for plunder,

they help themselves to two or three hundred yards
of wire. But, for all that, there are two big establishments.
Every message received from India at the
English office has to be carried to the Turkish office,
and handed over to the Greeks in charge, and vice
verse. A dull life I should say, but a more hospitable
set of fellows you couldn't meet anywhere. There
was any amount of brandy of sorts, and a fairly good
billiard-table."

Thank you, sir," said Mrs Fonblanque ; " but
brandy and billiard-rooms are so very common everywhere
that your account scarcely gives me a distinct
impression of Fao."

Well," he continued, " after our game they insisted
upon taking me down to the village among the date-trees,
to buy lubbers of rose-water. But that I
promptly refused. If you have to water the streets
of Cologne with eau de Cologne, they require all the
rose-water they can make for Fao ! It is a most
awful village for its size," he went on, " and it won't
bear description. I must wash the taste of it out of
my mouth."

He gave Mrs Fonblanque a most elaborate bow, and
staggered off to the bar. The steamer, which had only
hung about without dropping anchor, again got underway.


The low banks slowly faded out of view. The particularly

sweet waters of the Shet-el-Arab grew thick
and yellow, and in this waste of muddy water there
was nothing to mark the line where the river entered
the Persian Gulf bnt a small black buoy which was
changed whenever the bar shifted. Every one onboard
looked over the vessel's side trying to be the
first to discover the buoy. After a time, however, I
put my glass aside, and kept my eye on the pilot on
the bridge. He was naturally grave and stately, with
a very handsome face ; and as he stood there in his
Icuffia and his flowing ba, his appearance was singularly
picturesque. He said nothing, but he passed his
beads mechanically through his fingers as he waved a
direction to that side or this. He looked at the compass
now and then, chiefly, it seemed to me, as if he
wished to keep his face towards Mecca. I began to
lose faith in the pilot. I took up my glass again.
Then I saw him give an unusually energetic wave of
his right hand, and almost before we could see the
buoy we were over it. In another moment we were
ploughing heavily through the mud on the bar. This
time the mud was too much for us ; and after the
screw had churned away for a quarter of an hour, the
pilot, consulting the compass once more, called out
for his prayer-carpet, and the Captain came off the
bridge to tell us that we should have to wait where
we were till the next tide lifted the ship. "And

now," he added, " we may as well go down to
tiffin."

"Oh, let us have tiffin on deck," cried Mrs Fons
"It is delightful here."

This isn't a Thine boat," said the Captain, half in
despair, but with a good-natured smile on his face all
the time. " However, we'll make the best of it, and
though this isn't Hieland, our sparkling hock is the
best wine we have on board."

Captain Forbes was right. His hock was exceptionally
good, and, as we had nothing to distract us, we
became unusually merry for the time of day.

"We are bound to make the best of it," said the
skipper, calling for another bottle. "We have ten
more hours to put in."

"And I am very glad of it," I cried. "Get Mrs
Fonblanque to sing, Captain Forbes. She promised
me yesterday that some day or other I should hear
her sing really."

Did I ? Well, perhaps I did. But not just now,
Mr Hicks," she answered, declining another glass of
the Captain's wine.

I wish you would," pleaded the Captain.

"Oh, with you it's different. Certainly, Captain
Forbes. I will sing something, if you like, to make
the time go. Would you mind sending for Priscilla ? "

Captain Forbes himself went to call Priscilla, and

that gave Mrs Fonblanque the opportunity she wanted
of rating me soundly.

I must ask you not to be quite so familiar," she
said, quietly. "Some day, perhaps, when you have
painted my portrait, I may take the trouble to sing to
you really. But when I spoke about really singing, I
was speaking in confidence, and you have no business
to talk to me, sir, in a way that makes even the common
sailors grin. I certainly won't stand that."

She referred, I suppose, to the Quartermaster, who
had preached at me to some purpose at daybreak.
He was the only sailor near us, and, at a sign from
the Captain, he was letting down one side of the awning
to keep the sun out of Mrs Fonblanque's eyes.
So far as I could see, he never once glanced round
until Captain Forbes returned, driving Priscilla, as it
were, before him.

"Bring my guitar and my banjo," said Mrs Fons
sharply.

Priscilla brought up two cases and helped her mistress
to open them.

"An extraordinary man that passenger of ours,"
said the Captain to me, as soon as Mrs Fonblanque
was busily engaged. " I have had to stop his liquor
already, but he was as affable as ever when I came
across him down below. He was sitting beside a big
portmanteau among the horses, throwing no end of

papers overboard. ' What are you doing, my friend ? '
I asked. ' Disposing of my old love-letters lie said,
so as to make a fresh start. I always look upon the
sea as a splendid waste-paper basket.' And then he
chuckled."

He should not have done that," said the Sheik
severely, " and you should have rebuked him. Xo
papers ought ever to be destroyed, for some words of
the Prophet might happen to be on them."

He said they were love-letters," said the Captain,
and I daresay they were bills."

Here Mrs Fonblanque ran her fingers over the
strings of her guitar.

JSo," she said, quietly. " You don't look sufficiently
repentant for the guitar, Mr Hicks. I shall take the
banjo, and I hope I shall thoroughly shock what little
artistic feeling you may have left."

Another bottle of sparkling hock, steward ! " cried
the Captain.

"Exactly so," said Mrs Fonblanque, beginning to
tune her banjo, of all instruments the most hideous,
and never so hateful as in a beautiful woman's delicate
hands. " Ladies don't often get the chance of singing
a drinking-song, for you always turn us out of your
dining-rooms when anybody intends to be amusing.
Revenge is sweet "

So it seems," I said.

That settles it," she answered, giving the discarded
guitar a little kick with her foot. " I shall certainly
take the banjo, and I shall sing you a song that must
set every artistic nerve in your body on edge. And
if you all promise not to tell, you may fill my glass
again, Captain Forbes, and I'll give you a lady's drink-singsong.
Here you are ! " she added, twanging her
horrible banjo with her nervous little fingers, and
laughing all the time. Then she began : —

The wine that women worship most
Is not so rough and red as yours ;
We like to sip a sparkling toast,

No matter how the pledge endures ! '

Now, Captain ! now, Sheik ! chorus "

Excuse me," said the Sheik, firmly. " That surely
is a most improper song. I would not allow it to
be sung in my harem. It would shock Fatima immensely."


What an old Mohammedan Puritan you are ! " exclaimed
Mrs Fonblanque, "and there are two more
verses, too. I must have my chorus. Now, Captain
Forbes ! now, Mr Hicks ! chorus ! If you won't join
in, I shall send for the Nun, and tell Priscilla to waken
up the gentleman who was gallant enough to go to
Fao at my bidding. Take the tune from me —

1 So fill the cup '

That's it ! don't be frightened. I want a bass voice,
Mr Hicks, not a falsetto, if you please —

1 So fill the cup and let it brim
With sparkling wine, and drink to him
Who knows to love us for a while,
And knows to leave us with a smile.

Eternity is quite too much

For lives so poor as yours and ours ;

For us enough the fragrant touch

Of every spring-time's earliest flowers.

So fill the cup and let it brim
With sparkling wine, and drink to him
Who knows to love us for a while,
And knows to leave us with a smile.'

But you are not joining in, Mr Hicks," she said, stopping
suddenly.

I tried, but I cannot," I answered. " For once I
agree with the Sheik. It is in every way a most detestable
song, and I wonder you can sing it at all without
blacking your face in the Christy Minstrel fashion."

How rude you are ! " she cried. " You are always
rude now, and I shall certainly not give you the third
verse, which would have explained everything very
prettily. I only tried to make the time go, and this
is all my thanks. How like a man ! You may amuse
me now, or wait. We will, if you please, go the round
of the Arts, and see how painting will help us to pass

the time. What do you say, Sheik ? Shall we make
Mr Hicks finish that immortal picture of his — Ezra's
Tomb from a Steamboat ? We will sit down and criticise
him, just as you two have criticised me, and Captain
Forbes shall say which of us has won."

An admirable idea," said the Sheik. " I am not
by my religion allowed to like pictures, or I should
try and persuade Mr Hicks to let me have that picture
of his."

Bring it up on deck," said Mrs Eonblanque, peremptorily.


I expostulated — " I don't want to paint to-day. I
feel in no humour for painting."

I didn't want to sing," said Mrs Eonblanque, " and
I sang ; and when I began I didn't want to stop, but
I stopped. You have been indulged enough, sir, and
if you don't bring up Ezra's Tomb from a Steamboat
yourself, I shall send Priscilla into your cabin for it."

The mere thought of that awful creature making
hay " of my things, as we used to call it at school,
was too much for me. I yielded with the best grace
I could, and, before they were drinking their coffee, I
had a big easel in front of me, and all my painting
materials close at hand. By degrees I threw myself
into my work, and once I was properly absorbed in it,
their criticism scarcely ruffled my artistic sense.

CHAPTEK XIII.

Critics, as luckier men than myself had often told
me at home, soon weary of criticism if they are not
answered. "Never retort," my uncle used to say.
Let them bend their bows and shoot their arrows.
They almost always miss you, though they rub their
hands together gleefully, and cry out, ' See how we
have frightened him ! ' You shoot back and miss them,
and they rub their hands again, and cry with a chuckle,
1 We are quite invulnerable. He can't touch us.' The
last miss always counts double, and is always in the
critic's favour."

I was thinking partly of my uncle, partly of my
theory, and partly of my picture, and was, perhaps,
rather distressed than otherwise to find that my local
critics had by this time forgotten me completely.

Manna," I heard the Sheik say, " is by far the
most palatable food and the most easily digested food
I know. Our poor people sometimes live entirely on
it, and I often envy them."

"That is like me," replied Mrs Fonblanque. "I
always envy poor people, for nobody ever tries to
tamper with their imaginations. If I want a thing I
go and buy it, and there's an end to all my pleasure.
But the poor people, who can't get the things they
want, enjoy the thought of them a thousand times
more than you or I enjoy the reality."

That may be so," said the Sheik. " What I really
should like to know is what you think about my
manna."

It is one thing to be criticised and another to be
thoroughly ignored, and when the Sheik went below
for his manna, I could not help remembering that Mrs
Fonblanque had made a really hearty meal at tiffin-time.


It's very sticky, Sheik," I heard her say ; " but it
certainly is delicious. I should like the recipe. How
do you make it ? "

Oh, we don't make it ! " answered the Sheik, vastly
delighted. " It makes itself, being secreted in some
mysterious way in the trees, and we catch it in a cloth
in the shape of large crystal drops of dew, and then it
hardens. But are we not neglecting Mr Hicks and
his picture ? "

Perhaps we are," said Mrs Fonblanque. " But he
seemed so absorbed in his painting that I thought he
didn't want us to talk to him. What does it all mean,

Mr Hicks ? " she continued, looking over my shoulder.


I was busily at work on the foreground, and did not
think it necessary to reply.

"It is Ezra's Tomb," explained the Sheik, coming
close up to my other shoulder — "Ezra's Tomb, the oldest
known tomb in the world, and Mr Hicks has copied
it exactly. That is the tomb there. I recognise it at
once. That great big building, with a green dome on
the top of it, and a crescent over that again. It nestles
in a pleasant little clump of date-trees, and you see it
just when your eyes are most tired of looking at the
sandy desert. There ! he has finished the wall, and
now he is touching up the river. Inshallah ! It is a
wonderful art, and I often grieve that we Mohammedan
may not practise it."

I don't know," said Mrs Eonblanque, returning to
her seat. "Perhaps Mahomet was right. Devotion
to any one particular art must cripple a man terribly
in the long-run. My ideal man is thoroughly unfettered,
and ready at any moment to start anywhere and
do anything."

I thought that Mrs Fonblanque's ideal man had rather
a vague mission in life, and so apparently did the Sheik.

Why ? " he asked.

To show his individuality," said Mrs Fonblanque,
and his freedom from all possible fetters."

VOL. I. I

There I almost agree with you," said the Sheik,
and I only wish Fatima could hear what you say.
Incessant travel is a cure for most evils. But Fatima



You surely don't allow Fatima to dictate to you,
Sheik ? " said Mrs Fonblanque.

Scarcely that," he answered. " But I can't possibly
prevent her speaking her mind. And when
she is getting my 'kit' ready for another journey,
she "

Their idle chatter was too much for me. I threw
down my brushes in despair.

And when you travel," I cried, " I suppose you goto
London or Paris for the season ? "

I have been to Paris and to London too," the Sheik
answered, quietly.

You have been to London," exclaimed Mrs Fons
" How delightful ! Why, I have never been
to London myself. Fancy an Arab Sheik telling an
English 2firl all about London ! It is too delicious and
too absurd ! Sheik, you must be joking ! Have you
really been to England ? "

Of course I have," said the Sheik.

And what did Fatima and Zuleika and Nour Mahal
think of their London season ? "

Oh, they didn't go ! " he replied. " They wrote tome
every mail through the chief officer of my harem,

and in reply I gave them a careful account of all my
adventures."

Oil ! " cried Mrs Fonblanque. " How I should like
to hear everything about your adventures in London !
Begin at once, Sheik — I insist upon it."

"I must have time to think them over," said the
Sheik, cautiously. " But I know you will only laugh
at me, and, on the whole, I had better leave London
to Mr Hicks, who was probably born there."

He doesn't know how to tell a story properly,"
said Mrs Eonblanque. " He can't keep his uncle out
of his stories. I insist, Sheik, and when I insist "

I know," cried the Sheik ; " and some day, Madam
Eonblanque "

Can't you see through him ? He is joking, Mrs
Fonblanque," I said, picking up my brushes again, now
that I had divided the enemy's camp. " He is teasing
you. Pay him back in his own coin. Say you have
been to Mecca. And then, probably, I shall be able
to go on with my painting in peace."

I beg your pardon, Mr Hicks," said the Sheik,
severely. " I never joke ; our tribe never do. I went
to England in attendance on the Nawab Ikhbal-ool-
Dowlas, the ex-king of Oudh. You probably met him
at Bagdad ? "

"Yes, I did," I answered, "and he certainly told
me a good deal about his European travels."

Is he not a fine old man ? " continued the Sheik.
He was never really king of Ouclh, but your Government
make as much of him as if he had been, and
he is the real king of Bagdad. He holds the threads
of Central Asian politics in his fingers, and posts up
all your Residents. Well, I was nearly two years in
Europe with the Nawab. You still look doubtful.
Do I or do I not speak intelligible English ? And
how could I possibly have learned English unless I
had visited England ? "

I beg your pardon," said Mrs Fonblanque ; " I never
thought of that."

And no more had I. It was another of my uncle's
pet theories that the whole world, now that it had
given up speaking Hebrew, would one day speak English.
I had very naturally accepted the Sheik as he
was, and, without a second thought about it, had sent
a most amusing account of him home to my uncle in
the letter notifying the purchase and despatch of the
Tree of Good and Evil

Mrs Fonblanque, however, was not so easily satisfied
as she appeared to be at first, and while I was daubing
in the deep blue waters of the Tigris, she began to
cross-examine the Sheik cruelly.

How did you go ? " she asked at last.

Through Bagdad," he answered ; " a most disagreeable
place in the cold season."

There I agree with you," I said, turning ray back
on my picture. " I spent four days there. I don't
remember much of it, to be sure. But I do remember
the bridge of boats, and the great awkward buffets,
pitched inside and out with crude bitumen, like the
ark in which Pharaoh's daughter found Moses, and
how they went round and round as a man with one
oar pulled you spirally across the river. I remember
the narrow streets too, and how the porters, staggering
under their loads, used to block them up. There was
a tramway, wasn't there ? and the houses had serdaubs
or cellars underground for the winter months, and
big broad roofs for the summer ? I forget the details,
but I hated Bagdad more than any place I ever
stopped at."

Don't be quite so energetic," remonstrated Mrs
Fonblanque ; " but why ? "

Why ? Because for the first three days I saw
nothing but myself the whole time."

Poor man ! poor man ! "

I told you, I think," I said rather touchily, " that
I was laid up with fever at Bagdad. The Resident
was most wonderfully good to me. He gave me the
best room in the Residency — the crystal room. The
walls and ceilings were completely covered with little
looking-glasses set at different angles. Wherever I
looked, as I tossed about in my bed, stiff and bruised

and fever-stricken, I saw a thousand reflections of
myself, wan and emaciated and caricatured. It was
a waking exaggeration of some most horrible nightmare.
Have you ever seen yourself, Mrs Fonblanque,
in a thousand mirrors at once ? "

No ; but I don't think I should mind it," she
said, smiling.

Wouldn't you ? " I exclaimed. " Only try the
experiment when you have fever on you. It is bad
enough to be compelled to read one's face every
morning when one is shaving. ' What do you mean ?
What have you done ? What are you going to do ? '
you ask it. But to see your face for hours and days
together, and always in a thousand distorted shapes I
I assure you, Mrs Fonblanque, that when they moved
me into a little bedroom with whitewashed walls, I
thought I was in paradise."

Hush, Mr Hicks S Please hush ! " said Mrs Fons
" You really must not talk of paradise before
ladies."

And why not ? " I asked, with my two eyes wide
open.

The Sheik will tell you why not," she said. " It
is a question on which I cannot possibly enter
here — a question utterly forbidden to all of us poor
women."

Nay, nay ! " remonstrated the Sheik, gently. " That

is altogether a vulgar error. Our Prophet never said
that women had no chance of entering paradise. On
the contrary, madam, when an old woman, Abufelda
by name, importuned him about old women never
reaching paradise, he replied that that was only because
they all grew young again on the road."

"Thank you, Sheik," said Mrs Fonblanque. "Mr
Hicks was good enough to think that I was thirty
last night. There is hope for me still, Mr Hicks."

For you, certainly," answered the Sheik, seriously,
but scarcely for him."

And why not for me?" I ventured to interpolate,
as I looked round again from my picture.

Because," said the Sheik, impressively, " so far as
our books enable us to guess, the ladies will in a future
life have a little heaven of their own — a paradise all to
themselves."

There, Mr Hicks ! " exclaimed Mrs Fonblanque,
triumphantly. " That is a very subtle compliment,
and very prettily put. But at the same time, Sheik,
now that I come to think it over, I am almost afraid
that some of us would not altogether wish for such an
extreme and rigid system of exclusiveness. It sounds
like a seraglio without a sultan, or an arrangement of
Venetian blinds with nobody on the other side to lookout
at."

I laughed a little as I filled a new brush with a new

colour I had been carefully squeezing on to my palette
from a little tube as she spoke.

Why does he laugh ? " asked Mrs Fonblanque,
indignantly.

I think he knows the legend," said the Sheik.

Indeed ! I must insist on knowing it too, then,
unless of course there is anything decidedly improper
about it."

Neither of us spoke.

Come now, Sheik ! " said Mrs Fonblanque, tapping
the arm of her chair rather impatiently with
her black fan. " We are talking of serious matters,
if you please. Why are we poor women to have a
paradise of our own ? "

My dear lady," said the Sheik, holding up his
hands as if there might possibly be a thunder-cloud
somewhere near, " what can you want with paradise
just now ? I hope you will live a thousand years, and
grow younger and lovelier every day."

I hope so too," retorted Mrs Fonblanque. " But
it is scarcely likely. And in the meantime, I don't
choose to let you and Mr Hicks laugh to yourselves,
in what I really must call a very tantalising
manner, over a mysterious and apparently an improper
legend."

Bismillah ! " said the Sheik, placidly.

Nonsense ! " said Mrs Fonblanque, and not placidly

at all. " Why are we women to have a paradise of
our own ? "

Because, if you insist upon it — mind it is a
legend only — the legend says that you would make
a regular pandemonium of ours."

Oh, you horrid old Sheik ! " cried Mrs Fonblanque,
springing to her feet. " Put your hands down at once,
and let me have a good look at your treacherous old
face. Was it for this that I have taken your side
against Mr Hicks from the first ? I have a very
good mind to let him loose ! You are worse than
he is, and what would either of you do without us
in this world or the next ? "

There would be houris," I suggested.

And now you are worse than the Sheik ! " she
exclaimed, stamping her pretty little foot on the deck.
Would houris order your dinner every day, and sew
your buttons on for you, and see that you didn't waste
your time and lose your money at your clubs, and take
care that you went to bed early, and try to prevent
your drinking too much wine ? Would your houris,
as you call them "

Stop," said the Sheik, so impressively that even Mrs
Fonblanque stopped. " The gentleman is right. Oh,
my son," he continued, laying his hand almost affectionately
on my arm, "let us keep our affections for
those beautiful and constant daughters of paradise who

never cast eyes on any man but their own ! And,
however tried and tempted we may be, let us look
forward to that good time coming, as our Prophet
meant we should do, as the very pinnacle of supreme
felicity."

It is impossible to guess what Mrs Fonblanque
might have said in reply ; for at that moment — fortunately,
perhaps, for the Sheik and myself — the little
Nun rushed up and hysterically buried her head in
Mrs Fonblanque's bosom.

Hush, my dear ! hush, my dear ! " said Mrs Fons
soothing her like a petted child, and so
overdoing it, that at last the poor little thing naturally
fainted.

"Let me carry her down to her cabin," said the
Captain, who had run aft from the chart-room. " It
can't be the sea, Mrs Fonblanque, for the ship is as
firm as a rock. What is it ? "

It is their absurd theory about houris, Captain
Forbes, and I am afraid, from what she said, that
somebody has tried to kiss her ! "

Chapter Xii.

It was very nearly five o'clock when the Captain
disappeared below with his fair burden. Mrs Fons
followed him, and after leaving Priscilla in
charge, rejoined us on deck. But she was too late.
A pleasant day had been in some way or other completely
spoiled, and considering what a merry party
we had been at tiffin, we were now, as I looked round,
a most woe-begone and subdued lot of people.

I think I ought to go and smoke my hookah," said
the Sheik, as if a happy inspiration had struck him.
That pretty little Nun's affair has, I own, rather ruffled
me. "We know nothing of Nuns in our religion,
Madam Fonblanque; and if you will allow me, I
should like to compose my mind with a few whiffs
of tobacco before the setting sun says it is time to
call out for my prayer-carpet."

I think I should, if I were you," replied Mrs
Fonblanque, with an evident reminiscence of our late
passage-alarms. " How delightfully selfish all men

are at heart, and how admirably they veil it in some
ostentatious duty ! If you want to smoke, Sheik, say
so. Only for goodness' sake don't make a kind of
religious obligation out of it ! "

You mistake me altogether," said the Sheik.

No, I don't think I do," rejoined Mrs Fonblanque.
"I am a pretty shrewd judge of character. I have
only known you for about twenty-four hours, but I
fancy I know as much about your character as Fatima
does."

That is not impossible," answered the Sheik. " You
are much smarter than dear old Fatima ever was.
You are very clever indeed, Madam Fonblanque, and
I have been puzzling my brains all to-day as to how
a charming young woman is able to think, as you
do, that she can gauge an old man's character offhand."


Well, Sheik," she replied, slowly, " I will tell you.
Most men of a certain age are the same. They all of
them think a good deal more, I fear, of their creature-comforts
than of their religious obligations. You, for
instance, admire Mr Hicks's picture far more than I do ;
for, like that horrible man down below, I don't care
much about tombstones. You said you wished you
could buy it. But your religious scruples were too
strong for you, and I must say that you sacrificed
your artistic feelings to your religious scruples most

successfully. Still, looking at Mr Hicks's picture as
it lies before him on his easel, I cannot think the
sacrifice a costly one. Xow, Sheik," she continued
abruptly, " was the sacrifice a sacrifice really, or are
you not a humbug like — well, yes — like Mr Hicks,
and the rest of you ? "

I never," said the Sheik, " pretended to be better
than anybody else. Probably I am worse. Why are
you down on me like this ? "

Why ? " said Mrs Fonblanque. " Why ? Because
you have two measures, — one for our friend's picture,
and another for your personal convenience. A good
Mohammedan who can't swallow a tomb and a few
Arabs beside it, can nevertheless drink more sparkling
hock than any of us poor Kafirs ! "

Oh ! " said the Sheik, laughing, " is that all ? Most
good Mohammedan do that. Mahomet himself was
fond of good wine, and all he wrote against it, if you
read the Koran properly, is only a condemnation of his
own personal excess. The higher class of Mohammedan,
and more especially the travelled Mohammedan,
all use wine in moderation. I have been assured by
the best physicians in London that a light wine, such
as the Captain gave us to-day, is much less deleterious
than coffee ; and what could Mahomet know of sparkling
hock ? "

I know nothing of what Mahomet knew," said

Mrs Fonblanque ; " but as you know I can know
nothing of London, I think it is rather unkind of you
and Mr Hicks to remind me of London so often.
But you are begging the question. Was Mahomet
a water-drinker ? And did he, or did he not, forbid
the juice of the grape to his followers ? "

He was a water-drinker, of course," answered the
Sheik, " and, of course, he forbade us to use wine. But
if you will allow me to be prolix, this was how he
changed his mind "

Certainly," said Mrs Fonblanque softly, completely
recovering her manners, " be as prolix as you please ;
be always prolix if you like."

Well, this was how it was," said the Sheik, rather
shortly. " Mahomet called one day on a hermit who
had been at school with him, and the low door of the
hermit's hut suddenly became as large and lofty as if
it had been the portal to a palace. This was the first
sign of his mysterious power. After this he naturally
conceived so great an affection for the hermit who had
brought this miracle to pass, that all his followers became
angry and very jealous. One night when he had
gone to call on the holy man, his followers found them
both drunk with good wine. They drew Mahomet's
sword from its sheath, passed it through the hermit's
body, and put it back. When he awoke, they showed
him his bloody sword, and told him he had slain his

friend. Then it was that our Prophet cursed the juice
of the grape and all who drink it."

It must have been a dreadful shock," said Mrs
Eonblanque, quite sympathetically.

It was," answered the Sheik.

And where do you get your legend ? " said I, turning
aside from my picture.

It is an old, old legend," he answered, quite unruffled.
" It is in all our own books, and you will find
it in many of yours. I think you will find it in
Mandeville's Voyages."

And he was the prince of liars ! "

Hush, Mr Hicks ! " said Mrs Eonblanque. " Papa
used to say that no one could appreciate Mandeville
properly until he had lived twenty years in the
East, and you are, I think, only travelling in that
direction."

There is the steward with my hookah," said the
Sheik, " and the sun will set in five minutes. Salaam ! -

Mrs Eonblanque, judging from the way in which
she pushed her chair about, was evidently worsted.
She wouldn't, though I really tried to be affable, speak
to me for some time, now that the Sheik had gone. So
I painted away steadily at Ezra's Tomb, and by way of
local colour, I managed, rather adroitly, to put both
her and myself in. But as she wouldn't talk, of course
I stopped speaking.

Oh, Mr Hicks," she said suddenly, putting a little
hand on my shoulder, and just as abruptly withdrawing
it, " that really is a beautiful picture ! Without
my knowing it, you have actually painted, my portrait.
That was too bad of you, Mr Hicks, for I was
quite honest when I said I did not care for Ezra's
Tomb; but your figure and mine seem to make all
the difference in the world. Do you see how I am
holding my black fan in your picture ? Well, that's
exactly how I do hold it when I am thinking of
something else. I will give you anything you like
for your picture; not that you want anything — of
course I know you don't — but just for the fun of
sending it home to the Academy to see what the
critics say about it."

You are vere good, Mrs Fonblanque," I said, as I
began to pack up all my painting tools, " and a great
deal kinder, I am afraid, than any of the critics. Take
the picture, please take it. I only finished it for you.
When you and the Sheik teased me so unmercifully, I
thought this little bit of canvas might amuse you afterwards.
I never sell my pictures, because nobody will
buy them, and I can't begin with you, and I would
really much rather not have them criticised. Please
tell Priscilla to put the picture in your cabin, and to
be certain that nobody ever looks at it."

How good of you ! " cried Mrs Fonblanque. " I

will carry it down myself, so as to be sure that
Priscilla dries it properly before she packs it away.
I feel almost like a thief, Mr Hicks ; and what a shame
it was of us to go on teasing you as we did, while
you were slaving away just to please us ! Try and
give me absolution if you can. What penance shall
I perform by way of atonement ? "

You must walk the quarter-deck till the dinner-bell
rings," I said, " and if you are really repentant,
I shall expect to see you stepping out like the professors
at Aberdeen."

I will try," said Mrs Fonblanque, putting her
hand in my arm. " Did they walk in pairs ? If not,
I will follow you humbly."

I laughed a little at this, for Mrs Fonblanque was
not the kind of woman to walk humbly after any
man, even for a freak. And then, as we went together
arm in arm, and to and fro, I told her all about the
old Quartermaster and his family affairs.

"You seem to attract queer people," she said, laughing.
" I wish I had called him up when he was
putting down the awning. I should like to have
heard all about Polly and the problem, and the little
bairns in their bunks, and his own first night at sea
away from Polly and the bairns. Fancy his thinking
of them with tears in his honest blue eyes, while
you were perfectly happy with your wonderful uncle

VOL. I. K

and his problem ! You are spoiled irremediably, Mr
Hicks. The poor people have the best of it."

Yes," I answered ; " I heard something of what
you said to the Sheik about the danger of tampering
with their imaginations."

You did, sir ! " she replied, abruptly removing her
hand from my arm. " But how about the Quartermaster
? And how about your feelings when he said
you were henpecked and hen cooped ? "

Mrs Fonblanque, I am sorry to say, laughed most
immoderately — if a soft silvery laugh can ever be
immoderate — at this specimen of the Quartermaster's
wit. His apt quotation from Shakespeare had not
moved her in the least. But henpecked and hen-cooped
was too much for her. " He must be humorous,"
she said, slipping her hand adroitly under my
arm again, as I pressed it rather sulkily close to my
side.

Don't be so dreadfully cross," she said. " I could
not help laughing a little. But if you really feel
1 henpecked and hen cooped ' on the quarter - deck,
which we have all to ourselves, let us go forward and
mix a little with the crowd of native passengers."

We went forward as Mrs Fonblanque suggested. At
a distance, poor things, they seemed to be packed
together like herrings in a barrel. But as they happened
to be preparing their evening meal just then, we

found them a very happy and very picturesque-looking
set of people. Their pilgrimages were over — most of
them were pilgrims — and they could afford to spend as
much time as they liked over their huge bronze soma-voss
and little tin coffee-pots. The tiny cups of tea or
coffee were, as we appeared on the scene, being quickly
and silently handed round by stout comely women,
veiled up to their glittering eyes. The men lolled
about on carpets from Kernels or Mecca, which, had
they only known it, would have paid the cost of their
pilgrimage. They talked over their strange experiences
in deep undertones, as they stroked their huge beards,
which had been jet black when they started, and were
now as red as red-clay and henna could make them.
They scarcely looked at the women who handed them
their tea or coffee, but each of them had a kind word
for the naked, brown - skinned little children, who
tumbled all about them, and when Mrs Fonblanque
appeared on the scene, they pushed each other aside to
make a passage for her.

They are much friendlier here than we were on
the quarter-deck," said Mrs Fonblanque.

Perhaps," I suggested, " they can't understand one
another so well."

Perhaps not," replied Mrs Fonblanque. " But
only look at them as they lie all higgledy-piggledy on
those beautiful carpets. You ought to take out your

sketch-book, Mr Hicks. You will never have such a
chance as this again. Look at those tawny-bearded
Turks and those Zanzibar men. You are always
crying out for contrasts, and you could not have a
better contrast than that. Look at that negro woman
holding up her cup for the dregs of the coffee-pot, and
see how disdainfully that veiled Circassian beauty
pours it in. But what pretty lips she has, as she
smiles at that little urchin who is tugging at her
gown ! Oh, now that you look at her, she is smiling
at you too. Didn't you see how she gave her veil a
twist that showed her face completely, poor thing ?
She is very fond of that little boy, I should say, and
very tired of everything else."

Blast, perhaps, like you and me ? "

Don't be so affected," she said. " You are far too
impressionable to be blast, and, if anything, you are a
little too much the other way. Look at that odd
mixture of Arabs, Persians, Rajahs, Armenians, Jews,
Afghans, Hindoo, and Parties, all drinking their tea
and coffee together, and all lying at ease like so many
lions and lambs. What a happy family, and what an
example to both of us ! "

Here the Quartermaster, who had been touching his
cap to me for at least two minutes, at last broke in.

Beg your pardon, sir and ma'am," said he. " There
is more of the lion than the lamb about them. They

all come aboard armed to the teeth, and we stand by
the gangway with our bludgeons in our hands. ' Drop
your arms ! ' say we in something like their own lingo.
And if they don't, why, we drop them. Then their
women come up, carrying their luggage like beasts of
burden, and as soon as they have spread their carpets
down and fed their children, the men take their
places."

And a very quiet, orderly set of men they seem,
Quartermaster' I said.

"That's as you take them," he answered. "Look
at them now, and you'd think honey wouldn't melt in
their mouths. But they hate each other like poison,
and when the Shams or the Pennies, or whatever they
call themselves, are allowed to take their rusty old
matchlocks out to clean them, they keep the others at
a good distance, I can tell you."

Here the steward ran up, followed by Captain
Forbes, to tell us dinner was ready, and the Quartermaster,
as we left him, was surrounded by a crowd of
little children who had, somehow or other, discovered
that his pockets were full of apples.

He is still thinking of Polly and the bairns," said
Mrs Fonblanque aside to me, as she took the Captain's
arm.

CHAPTER XV.

After dinner, at which neither the Nun nor the
obnoxious passenger were present, we went on deck
again, and then I began to understand what Captain
Forbes meant by saying that we should hear a good
deal more of the horses before we had done with them.
They were packed so tightly, poor creatures, that if
any one of them had been allowed to lie down, all the
queen's horses and all the queen's men could never
have set him on his legs again. So it was the business
of the Arab and Persian housekeepers to keep their
charges awake throughout the whole voyage. This they
did in turns — and at night, by walking to and fro, singing
a painfully unmelodious ditty, and hammering away
at the wooden bar in front of each row of horses with
a big stick. This double-barrelled system of torture
was in itself bad enough the first evening I heard it.
But long before I reached Bombay, I learned to hate it
most consummately. I wrote down something about the
kingdom of Honyhuhum just now. But here Swift's

terrible outrage on humanity was amply avenged, for
the moment any poor brute leant its tired head on the
wooden bar in front of him, he was roughly aroused,
and, as a last resort, given something to eat and
drink.

I wonder the horses don't all go mad," I said to
Captain Forbes, as we walked slowly up and down
smoking our cheroots. " Fancy being kept awake fora
whole fortnight to listen to a row like that ! "

"I used to think like you once," answered the
Captain ; " but I see now that the Arabs know their
own business. Most of these horses have never been
ridden. When you come to Bombay you'll find them
all perfectly trained, and if you fancy any particular
horse here, you will be able to ride him straight away
from the steamer."

Just as Mrs Fonblanque's father used to do on his
Sunday mornings ? " I suggested.

Yes," he answered. " But he never kept them together
head and tail so long as we do. The most perfect
cure for a kicking horse is to ride him right into
an Irish bog and leave him there, kicking away till he
is tired. No horse has a kick in him after that. Buta
fortnight on board a British-India steamer is not a
bad substitute for an Irish bog."

How is it you seem to know all about horses ? " I
asked, " and why was it that you told me at breakfasting

that you ought to have been a cavalry
officer?"

"Oh, that's a long yarn," answered the Captain,
smiling. " I made my mark as a cavalry officer in the
old Kafir war, when I was an apprentice in the Union
Line. Forbes's Horse were a great deal better known
than Forbes's old tub of a steamer ever will be. I was
the youngest man in the force, and the skipper of
them all. Lord! the things we did in Cape Town!
and how the regulars hated our smart grey uniform,
and the way in which the girls used to wave their
handkerchiefs as we clattered through the sleepy
streets ! We nearly came to blows at the Governor's
ball, though, and then some one peached on me. I
had been left at the Cape invalided — not very sick or
sorry, I can tell you, at the chance of getting a change
ashore. But the directors at home came to hear of my
success, and so did my poor old father, and I received
two letters the same day telling me to join the first ship
in, or be ruined. We were a smart troop and well
dressed, but our pay was not much to speak of. Like
the rest, I was a good deal in debt, and, like a fool, I
resigned, and made a hash of my life. If I had only
waited a week I should have had a commission. I
never knew that till the next voyage out, when everybody
chaffed me for resigning. Perhaps I should have
been a colonel now, perhaps a general, perhaps something

more, for all ray instincts were in the work.
As it is, I drive a cargo-boat up and down this beastly
Gulf."

Well, your cargo, at all events, is to your taste."

"That's my only consolation," said the skipper,
rather sorrowfully. " I know a good horse when I
see him, and I take care that he is not ill-treated."

Surely that's a great pull in itself," I said. " I am,
I am not ashamed to say, a Cockney, pure and simple.
I know a horse from a cow, and that's about all. Tome
all these horses you have on board look like ponies."

"That's only because they are Arab horses," rejoined
Captain Forbes, "and because those hulking
dray-horses in London have completely vitiated your
taste. No horse, to begin with, should be more than
fourteen hands, or at the most fourteen - two. The
ideal Arab, the true Nejed horse, is rarely over fourteen.
He has very full haunches, shoulders that slope
like the shoulders of a beautifully modelled woman, a
broad head, a delicate nose that could drink out of a
pint-pot, legs hard and sinewy and very clean, small
hoofs, eyes large and full and almost as soft and
gentle as a gazelle's, little ears always on the move, a
coat like silk and without a suspicion of hair on it, a
long mane, and a flowing tail. You recollect Manfred's
bold image when he likened the lines of foaming light
flung from the Alpine cataract to ' the pale courser's

tail, the giant steed, to be bestrode by Death.' Well,
that's the way the Arab horses hold their tails."

You should tell that to Mrs Fonblanque," I said,
and then I burst into a roar of laughter. " Let me,"
I cried, half choking, " only let me see a tail that "

I can't," said the Captain, evidently hurt ; " their
tails are all the other way, and must remain so till
we reach Bombay."

Let me see a Nejed horse then," I persisted, " with
shoulders that slope like the shoulders of a beautifully
modelled woman."

I can't," cried the Captain, hotly. " I have never
seen a real Nejed horse myself, man. I am only
repeating the songs of those Arab housekeepers, who
say their poets all go raving mad about the slope of
a thoroughbred's shoulders. But if you can't tell a
horse from a cow, I don't see why you should pitch
into me for my enthusiasm."

No more do I, Captain Forbes," I said. " I only
thought that if I had to wait until I reached Bombay
to see their tails, I might perhaps be able to see their
shoulders at once."

"Well, you won't," he answered. "The true ]S T eject
breed are never sold. But in the morning I can show
you a couple of ponies from Nejed sires, and with all
the best points, that will fetch Es. 7000 each as
Indian racers, and will be cheap at the price."

By this time the Captain gathered that I was sufficiently
impressed. Our cheroots, too, were finished,
and so he proposed that we should go up to the
quarter-deck.

I was glad to see that Mrs Fonblanque had found a
companion in the Nun. They were sitting together in
the most confidential way, almost hand in hand ; and,
considerably reassured, I went up to them, with something
of the feelings of a truant who has not been
found out.

This is Mr Hicks, the artist," said Mrs Fonblanque
to the Nun, making room for me on the bench between
them. (How is it that women when they are
by themselves never look really comfortable, and
always appear to be waiting for some one else to join
them ?) " This is Mr Hicks of whom I was telling
you."

The Nun bowed shyly, and then, after a word or
two to Mrs Fonblanque, abruptly retired.

"You look pleased," I said. "Has she amused
you ? "

"No, Mr Hicks. She has distressed me a good
deal. She is just like you, or the Captain, or perhaps
myself. She does not like her actual station in life,
and so she is — what none of us, I think, are — very
unhappy in consequence."

Poor girl ! why ? "

Oh, that's a secret she told me in confidence, and
I really don't think I ought to divulge it."

I don't wish to hear her secret," I answered.

"No, I see that," replied Mrs Fonblanque, "but
you should think of me too. I want to tell it. A
secret is never safe until you have locked it away in
somebody else's breast. Get rid of it at once, and have
done with it. That's the only way to treat a secret.
Poor girl ! I thought she was going to cry her eyes
out when she first sat down beside me."

Because that atrocious scoundrel annoyed her ? "
cried I.

Not at all," said Mrs Fonblanque. " You seem to
know nothing of women, Mr Hicks, and you are far
too quick in your surmises. She never so much as
mentioned him, and I never thought she would. But,
tipsy as he was, I should not wonder if he had set her
thinking about old times. She was not always a
Nun, you know. She had a French father and an
English mother, and her home-life does not seem to
have been very happy; and once upon a time it
appears she loved somebody very dearly, and after
quarrelling with her people about him, she tied faraway
from anything that could remind her of him,
and she tried, how hard I cannot tell you, to forget
everything, in teaching little Persian children their
Ave Marias and Pater Nosters. She said she almost

hated them sometimes as they laughed at her bad
Persian, and that very often as she talked to them her
veil was wet with tears."

She must have been ill," I suggested.

Perhaps she was. Perhaps she was only unhappy.
She was telling me, just when you came up, that it is
very easy to be a Nun, and very hard to forget ; very
easy to pray, and very difficult to think one's prayers
are always completely ignored. Is not that dreadful ?"

No," I answered ; " I have felt that feeling myself,
twice at least. When one is really stirred with some
great grief or some horrible injustice, it is almost a
first instinct. And right or wrong "

There is no question of right or wrong — only of an
unhappy girl who has been too impetuous, and has,
poor thing, suffered far too much."

' One of the flowers that fell out of the hands of
God,' " said I, quoting from my own unpublished verses
almost unconsciously, and, indeed, without meaning to
be egotistical in the least. I had never quoted these
two lines before. I will never quote them again. I
never, perhaps, felt more ashamed of myself than
when Mrs Ponblanque said the idea was a pretty one,
though, as it could have nothing to do with the Nun,
she did not quite see why I brought it to bear on the
subject.

"She said it was very hard to forget," continued

Mrs Fonblanque, "and I am afraid she never will
forget now. It seems that she gave all her lace
shillings and pocket-handkerchiefs by degrees to one of
the French minister's servants in exchange for old
French newspapers, so as to be able to follow him infancy,
as he went about with his regiment ; and she
saw his name twice. She struggled on for three years,
and nothing gave her any real interest till the plague
swept over Teheran. That did her good for the time.
She used, she told me, to go out every morning, saying
to herself, ' Now I shall never come back.' But it was
not till the plague was over that she broke down, and
then the Mother Superior called in the Shah's doctor,
and he said she must go home."

And so she is going home now ? "

Home ? Yes," replied Mrs Fonblanque, "if Europe
is home to an almost broken-hearted girl. I told you
that she quarrelled with her people before she ran
away from them. She fears, from the last papers she
saw, that he is with them now, and she doesn't quite
know whether she wishes to see him or not."

Poor girl ! " I said. " I thought, before I heard her
history, that she was in the last stage of consumption,
and would be well out of her troubles before she saw
the blue waters of the Mediterranean."

I think not, Mr Hicks. She is, perhaps, more
communicative than a girl should be, and she probably

has consumptive symptoms. You and I, and

this rough sea-breeze together, ought to bring her
round. It is not nice to think of a woman's life being
wasted for a mere girlish fancy."

Not nice ! " I said. " Surely it is impossible."

No, Mr Hicks, you have not the slightest idea how
easily a girl like that is made or marred. I can't
remember my mother, but I can feel for all motherless
girls — all the more, perhaps, because I have no children
of my own."

We had been walking up and down the quarterdeck
ever since the Nun had run away from her very
uncomfortable seat, and we went on walking up and
down long after Mrs Fonblanque had finished speaking.


You," I said at last, trying to say something sympathetic
— " you really ought to get her out of that
stupid way of thinking about a man whose name she
has only seen twice in a newspaper in the last three
years. What would the Sheik, with his silent contempt
of monogamy as an institution, say to her
humble imitation of it ? "

Please leave the Sheik alone' said Mrs Fons
" His ideas of love are not yours or mine.
And probably the Nun's ideas of love are not ours.
He could never understand her troubles. And, indeed,
I scarcely understand them myself, for the dismal

little romance that made all her people turn their
faces away doesn't seem half so pathetic to me as she
herself is in her "black dress, and her flushed cheeks,
her coif and wimple, and her vague thoughts about
him, whoever he may be."

A scoundrel, I'll be bound," I cried, " and dancing
round some ball-room now in a fine uniform, with his
spurs jingling, and making a fool of another susceptible
girl."

No, Mr Hicks," said Mrs Fonblanque ; " I thought
you knew nothing of women just now, and now I
think you know nothing of men. I don't see why the
man should be blamed ; perhaps he knows next to
nothing of it. Don't you remember those melancholy
lines : —

Alas ! how easily things go wrong !
A sigh too deep or a kiss too long —
And then corinth a mist and a weeping rain,
And life is never the same again.' "

Yes, I do," I said. " But I scarcely expected to
hear you quote them."

"Not for myself. I have more spirit than that.
Sometimes I think that I have almost too much spirit.
But I can understand the lines for all that, and you
will find few men of five-ancl-thirty, and very few
women of something under that, Mr Hicks, whose
eyes don't grow a little moister at the thought of the

mist and the weeping rain. Please do not say a word
to the Nun about what I told you. I certainly did not
tell you her secrets because I wanted to gossip. She
is, as you said, really ill, and I only want you to make
it your duty, as I shall make it mine, to look after hera
little, and cheer her up, and entertain her. She
is stifled for want of fresh air and frank companionship.
A little laughter would do her a world of
good."

I will do my best ; but what a queer creature you
are ! " I answered, trying to study her face. " You are
very cynical for a woman, Mrs Fonblanque, and for a
woman very, very kind."

Thank you, Mr Hicks. But a cynical woman, as
you call her, is a woman after all, and I fancy she
doesn't like being studied, even by the light of a binnacle.
Take me on trust, or leave me alone ; don't
study me. The Sheik, with his wider experience,
would say that no woman was worth it. He would
weigh me and measure me, and multiply the result by
my complexion ; and his figures would, I daresay, be
quite as correct as yours. But talk of angels — here
he is."

Sheik," she continued, " Mr Hicks is not entertaining.
He says all the wrong things. Come and relieve
him. Put yourself in this long chair. Have your
hubble-bubble brought up on deck, and I will light it

vol. I. L

for you. And then, tell me all about your adventures
in London."

"It is late, Madam Fonblanque," said the Sheik,
holding up an enormous watch in front of the compass
lamp, "and I promised Fatima that I would
always go to bed at half-past nine."

Poor dear Fatima," answered Mrs Fonblanque
ironically; "I forgot her. Of course you must consider
her wishes. And like a loyal man, Sheik, I
daresay you consider them much more carefully when
she is absent."

I try to," said the Sheik.

And pray, when will you try to tell me all about
your adventures in London ? "

To-morrow," he answered, beating a retreat in such
a masterly way as to make me look like the fugitive.

Done ! " said Mrs Fonblanque. " At last I have
booked you ; for, as you told us yourself, a Bedouin
cannot tell a lie."

We both heard what she said, but were both so faraway
at the time that, instead of answering, we each
looked at the other.

Ladies who do not belong to you or your family,"
said the Sheik, shrugging his shoulders, " are useful
for two purposes. They find out things one wants to
know, and they spread abroad as many secrets as one
likes to tell them. Inshallah ! "

Then the Sheik went forward to see, I suppose, if
his hookah were still alight, and I joined the Captain
on the bridge to learn something more about the Cape
Town girls who had waved their handkerchiefs at
him as Forbes's Horse went clattering through the
sleepy streets there.

Chapter XVI.

The Sheik was wonderfully coy next morning.

Mr Hicks or the Captain can tell you all about
London ten thousand times better than I can," he
said at last, when Mrs Fonblanque had fairly ran him
down.

"Yes, yes, Sheik, but not from an Arab standpoint."


Poor old man ! he did not struggle against that soft
"Yes, yes, Sheik," as I fancy I should have done.
Never," my uncle used to say, " never under any
circumstances permit a woman to agree with you.
Heaven alone knows what the result may be." The
Sheik, knowing nothing of my uncle, fell, as if snared,
into one of Captain Forbes's long chairs, saying " Yes,
yes," to everything Mrs Fonblanque suggested.

I felt deserted. I retired below to look for my
sketching materials. With Mrs Fonblanque and the
Sheik arrayed against me, I naturally desired to recruit
my own party. Last night he thought her only

fit to whisper abroad such things as he wished known.
Now he was like clay in her hands. I hammered at
the Nun's cabin door, and begged her to come on deck.
She had still a violent headache. Then, much against
the grain, I tried to approach the obnoxious passenger.
The grim old Quartermaster stopped me.

"He has had an awful night," he said. "His one
thought is brandy. The Captain says I am to let no
one near him."

Then the Quartermaster wanted to gossip, but I
turned sulkily on my heel. " Every one in this
wretched ship," thought I bitterly, " has a foible.
That miserable creature's foible is brandy. The
Quartermaster, forsooth, must do as he is told. The
Nun has her headache. Mrs Fonblanque is inordinately
proud of making a garrulous old man talk to
her of his early recollections ; and as he has nothing
whatever to say, his foible, if you please, is coyness.
Very well, Mrs Fonblanque, I shall have a foible too,
a brand-new foible, a foible of silence, and I natter
myself you won't easily understand the meaning of
that."

I was, as usual, very nearly right.

Yes, yes," I heard the Sheik say, just as a parrot
might have said it, and just as monotonously.
Yes, yes," he repeated, as I approached them ; " but
my memory, madam, is still unimpaired. I have the

most vivid recollections of my trip to London. I will
tell them to you, just as I wrote them to Fatima,
frankly and freely and without disguise ; but I must
not be interrupted. Our ways of thinking will probably
differ. I may, perhaps, shock you now and then,
and you must promise not to mind that."

"Not in the least," exclaimed Mrs Fonblanque,
smiling ; " I promise that."

For yourself only ? " continued the Sheik. " I am
not so much alarmed about you ; you have never been
in London. I was thinking rather about Mr Hicks,
who was probably born there."

Oh, I can promise for him. He shan't come into
our conversation at all, Sheik," she answered. " Why,
here is Mr Hicks. The Sheik and I are going to
spend our morning together, Mr Hicks; and as you
are apparently going to paint, we should not like to
interrupt your work. Perhaps you won't mind taking
one end of the quarter-deck, either end you like, and
we will take the other."

"What an extraordinarily keen intuition women
have," muttered I to myself. " She saw me scowl at
the Sheik, and she guessed my particular foible at once.
I shall be silent if I please, but I shall certainly not
be sent away to be silent all by myself."

That is hardly necessary," I answered aloud ; " I
want to work, and I don't wish to have to say another

word for the next four hours. I shall certainly not
speak unless I am spoken to; but your wrangling
amused me yesterday, and Ezra's Tomb was all the
better of them. They may perhaps amuse me to-day."

That is true," said Mrs Fonblanque, relenting ;
to amuse you would, of course, delight us. We will
try ; and, indeed, I prize Ezra's Tomb immensely.
What do you say, Sheik ? I think we might accept
Mr Hicks's offer ? "

Yes," he replied, rather dubiously, " if you promise
not to be shocked at anything I say, and he promises
not to speak until he is spoken to."

Done ! " cried we both ; both, I think, feeling that
we had the better of the Sheik at last.

You can call out for your hookah when you like,
Sheik," said Mrs Fonblanque, " and Mr Hicks can light
his pipe. Xow, Mr Hicks, be silent ; and now, Sheik,
begin."

The Sheik continued, however, to count his beads
very nervously. " He is an impostor," thought I, as I
made a pencil sketch of him in that character ; " he
has nothing to say. Like me, but from a different
motive, he has adopted silence as a foible."

The steamer was now well out at sea making up for
lost time. We should be at Bushire before anybody
spoke. It was dull work voyaging like this in the
company of a taciturn Sheik who had managed to

make nie promise to keep a gag in my mouth.
Before I had finished many caricatures of them
both, I began to wish most heartily that we were all
ashore again.

This is dreadful ! " said Mrs Fonblanque at last.
Mr Hicks ! Mr Hicks ! "

He mustn't speak," cried the Sheik, dropping his
beads to hold his hands up.

Oh yes, he may," replied Mrs Fonblanque, " if he
is spoken to ; and if you don't talk he will be spoken
to to some purpose. Come now, Sheik, don't be so
absurdly shy. You went to London ? Begin at the
be£'innino\ Begin with Fatima's tears."

o o o

She wept, of course," said the Sheik, passing the
corner of his rough camel's robe over his eyes. " So
they all did, and so did I, as I enjoined them to live
peaceably in seclusion until I came back, and as they
wished for my regard, never until then to unveil the
beautiful features I was leaving with so much regret."

Was not that rather hard on your wives, though,"
said Mrs Fonblanque softly, " when you were going
out into the world to enjoy yourself ? "

It is our custom," he answered. " There is really
nothing to shock you here. And it was not until a longtime
after I left them that I could enjoy myself at all.
For ten days or a fortnight we travelled on camels,
living on rough fare, and losing all the charm of the

journey in the excessive haste that Ikhbal-ool-Dowlah
thought necessary. Often and often I wished that
one or other of my wives were with me to mix my
sherbet, or prepare my coffee, or fill my chibouk.
They were scarcely ever out of my thoughts."

You are not quite so original, Sheik, as I expected
you would be," said Mrs Fonblanque. " That's exactly
what all the men I know say about their wives when
they are good enough to speak of them at all. The
model wife anywhere is only just such an elegant and
efficient female servant as you cannot get for monthly
wages."

I turned round abruptly. I should like to have
spoken on this point, for my uncle, as a confirmed
bachelor, had most pronounced views on matrimonial
obligations. They both looked indignantly at me, and
I subsided.

Oh ! " said the Sheik, pretending to ignore me altogether,
" the ship was worse than the camels. I amused
to ships now, but at the time I suffered terribly.
The more the ship rolled, the more I envied the happy
lot of my wives in their quiet little Arabian encampment."


"Well, well," exclaimed Mrs Fonblanque, rather
pettishly ; " suppose we leave Fatima and the rest of
them in their delightful seclusion. AVhat were your
first ideas of England ? "

Intensely disagreeable," answered the Sheik. " I
had heard much on board, when towards the end of
the voyage I was able to crawl on deck, of the rapacity
of a famous piratical tribe called Custom-house officers.
When we sighted Southampton they seized the ship.
At first, any stranger might easily have mistaken them
for Englishmen ; but we soon discovered certain signs
of their barbarous origin. I was still almost ignorant
of English ; and as I sat on my boxes counting my
beads, they bore down on me in overwhelming numbers.
They took away all the exquisite tobacco I had
purchased at Aleppo, and all the silver ornaments and
utensils with which dear old Fatima had filled a little
travelling-trunk from our old family chest."

How dreadful, Sheik ! " exclaimed Mrs Fonblanque ;
and you mean to tell me that you submitted without
a word ? "

No, madam," said the Sheik ; " not without a
word ; not without very many bad words. I appealed
to the passengers ; they shrugged their shoulders.
We told you to be careful,' they replied. * If you
wanted to smuggle, you should have been very, very
careful, and have either hidden your things, as we did,
or have had plenty of backsheesh ready.' Then I
went to Ikhbal-ool-Dowlah. He laughed. ' It is
quite for the best,' he said. ' I have been in England
before ; they took you for me. I arranged that they

should do so ; and they have passed all my boxes
without opening any of them. We have got the better
of the infidels, as we always do ; and you may put
your losses down at a fair figure in my account-book.' "

Then you lost nothing ? " asked Mrs Fonblanque.

No ; rather the other way. But it was extremely
annoying."

Well, never mind the annoyance now, Sheik,"
she said. " It was a long time ago ; before I was born,
I daresay. You landed at last ; and then, what did
you think of London ? "

I had to get there first," he answered. " I went ina
machine that puff-puffed and groaned like the ship,
only on wheels."

That was a train," said Mrs Fonblanque. " They
are common enough now even in India; and when
you talk about the puff-puff, Sheik, you seem to be
treating me rather like a child."

The same thought had struck me. and, without
turning round, I laughed aloud.

You mustn't talk," said Mrs Fonblanque. " You
remember your promise, don't you ? "

Yes," I answered, turning boldly round. " But I
never promised not to laugh ; did I, Sheik ? "

That was implied," he said. " But perhaps you are
justified just now. Still I think I am right from an
artistic point of view. I am only trying to interest

Mrs Fonblanque in London by giving her my impressions
as they first occurred to me."

Perfectly right," rejoined Mrs Fonblanque. " Mr
Hicks, yon are muzzled again ; and now, Sheik, how did
England first impress you ? "

As very small and terribly crowded," he replied.
"The country, as we flew through it on our iron
wheels, was cut up, like our chess carpets, into little
patches they call fields, with great hedges every fifty
or sixty yards. Half the land seemed to be wasted
upon these horrible hedges. And as for their fields,
they were so small that I really should not have liked
to have stabled a mare of mine in any one of them.
Everything looked most dreadfully green. There was
not a patch of yellow sand all the way to London,
and, until we reached London, I saw nothing that
reminded me of the desert."

And London reminded you of the desert ? "

Yes, in a sense," he answered. " I have never in
all my life felt so much alone, as when I went out fora
stroll on the first evening of our arrival. I wished to
think quietly over the voyage and to map out my little
plans for the future ; but I was caught up and swept
away by an overwhelming rush of people, going someone
way and some another, fighting and jostling as
they went, as if everybody wanted to be first in at
this end or that."

Oh, I know," said Mrs Fonblanque. " That was
the City, and they were all trying to get to the Bank
of England or to Basinghall Street. English novels
tell us a great deal about the fierce struggles in the
middle passage between those two places."

"No," answered the Sheik, with such a pronounced
air of superior knowledge that I caught it at once and
had it clown on paper before he proceeded further.
(If you are able to sit with your back to your models,
you have an extraordinary advantage over them.)
No ; the City, as I learned afterwards, is always
deserted at that hour, and our hotel was at the West
End. The rush was dreadful, and to a stranger the
scrimmage and the turmoil seemed discourteous in the
extreme. On the desert, if you see anybody two miles
off, you are delighted to stop for a moment so as to spear
him if he is worth it, and if not, to cheer him forward
on his journey ; and then, turning half round on your
saddle, you ride slowly away with regret till he is
quite out of sight. In London, I assure you, it is very
different. Even on that first night I saw many faces
I would gladly have seen again — faces that seemed to
have a message for me, or I for them ; no matter
which, for we passed each other almost as rapidly as
the express trains between London and Southampton."
I have often had that same feeling in travelling,
Sheik," said Mrs Fonblanque. " But I have never

been swept away by an overwhelming rush of people.
How did you feel, and how did you escape ? "

I felt lonelier," said he, " than I had ever felt
before ; and I escaped by imitating a big Englishman
in front of me, who used his elbows freely. I fled
through some dark alleys, and then I came to a large
square place brilliantly lit up with burning air."

And what did you do there ? " asked Mrs Fons


Oh, Fatima, Fatima ! " I cried, " if you saw how
these barbarians have welcomed your lord and master,
you and Zuleika and Nour Mahal, and all your handmaidens,
would leave your tents to tear your hair and
beat your breasts ! "

Nonsense, Sheik ! " said Mrs Fonblanque. " Don't
be sentimental. It is bad enough to have one sulky
sentimentalist on board."

You are speaking to me," I cried. " I claim the
right of reply."

Hush, Mr Hicks," she said, " be silent ; and,
Sheik, please be practical. Forget the horrors of your
first night in London, and tell me candidly what you
thought of the ladies you met there."

That," he answered, " is a big question, and you
must really give me time to think."

CHAPTER XVII.

You asked nie about the ladies," continued the Sheik,
slowly. " Well, it took me three weeks or a month to
realise what I saw. They walked about the streets
with their faces perfectly unveiled. They sat in the
play-houses without anything on their shoulders, and
they appeared on the stage without any robes over
their legs. It is, perhaps, fortunate for the men that
the ladies are like this. For the younger ladies are so
exceedingly beautiful that no mortal man could resist
them if they were only as modest as they are lovely."
But, Sheik, how about the modest women ? "
I never met any," he answered, shortly. " At first,
of course, I thought my English friends did as we do,
and that their modest women were all kept in seclusion
at home. But I was wrong. AH their women
go about everywhere ; and the older their women are,
the more they wish to attract notice. It is entirely
the other way in our harems. It is only our younger
wives who think of attracting notice at all. But in

London, and especially in the play-houses, the old
women were far the worst."

Why was that ? "

It is hard to say. They were lean and scraggy.
They spoiled the view of the stage, and everybody I
spoke to on the subject approved of our system of
veils. ' You are right, sir,' said one young gentleman,
over a supper at Evans's, ' and let us hope that Eastern
civilisation will at last prevail. In the old days we
had to kiss all the women we met instead of shaking
hands with them. You kissed ten old horrors for one
pretty girl, and so the law was changed. But we have
still to look at them. A few words from you might
alter the law there too.' This was what they called a
wrinkle. So I wrote a little pamphlet on the subject,
Madam Eonblanque, advocating the purdah system.
It became the rage, and one of the papers started a
rival Turkish writer, who used to go about the theatres
counting the number of grandmothers (or ladies old
enough to be grandmothers) who appeared there in
low-necked dresses. They formed eighty per cent of
the female portion of the audience in the better parts
of the house."

I am sorry for you," said Mrs Fonblanque, curtly.
Those poor old women he saw couldn't have been
much older than your mother was, and what would
she have said to your pamphlet?"

She lived and died in her tent," said the Sheik ;
but these venerable old ladies I am speaking of
spend most of their time gadding about, so as to be
able to play cards — an amusement we leave to our
Zanzibar slaves."

You are wrong there," exclaimed Mrs Fonblanque.
I like a quiet rubber myself."

So you may," he said. " I adroitly advocated
whist in my pamphlet as an alternative to going to
the play. But wait till you have to cultivate English
society. The old women are bad enough, but they are
scarcely the worst feature of it. Even young children
without any sort of option in the matter are brought
up as our dancing-boys and singing-girls are here.
Whether they have voices or not they all learn music,
and London in the suburbs is one perpetual wail
against this atrocious system."

Did you live in the suburbs, Sheik ? "

"Xo, certainly not. But wherever you lived you
learned to hate the musical side of an English education.
English girls are taught everything, and always
by people of another tribe."

Why is that ? " asked Mrs Fonblanque.

"Partly because the polite arts are quite foreign to the
English character, and partly, perhaps, because it would
be considered bad form in grown-up English people
to know anything well enough to be able to teach it."

VOL. I. M

I looked round at Mrs Fonblanque, who had
astounded me two or three days before by being so
thorough in her knowledge. She actually blushed.

But surely, Sheik," she said, as a 1 reply to me, " a
great many English 1 dies must be clever and well
informed and well read, and all that."

Oh, there are such women," he answered. " But
they are obliged to wear blue spectacles as a badge ;
and to distinguish them from the others, they are
called 'Women's Eights Women'"

Stop, Sheik ! Do I belong to that class ? "

"I think not," he answered. "They are said to be
very clever. But they are not in society. How
amused Fatima was with my first account of them
at the Victoria Institute ! But the young ladies I am
talking of put off all they have been taught when
they ' come out.' They come out of all their learning,
you know ; and just as with the butterflies who have
brushed aside their early encumbrances, it is their
single duty to look beautiful. They are young ladies
now, and until they marry they have nothing whatever
to do but to study the art and the cost of dress.
And there, I acknowledge, they excel."

"A very nice amusement for girls, too," said Mrs
Fonblanque, " if their allowances are only large
enough."

Well," answered the Sheik, " that question of

allowances used to puzzle me a good deal too. How
do all the unmarried girls in England pay for their
dresses ? They should not be unmarried, of course.
Our religion is quite against that. But there they
were. And as a father and a husband on a fairly
extensive scale, I could guess what their dresses cost.
We have our own fashions in the desert, and have
had them for one or two thousand years. But in
England the fashions change every month. What is
blue to-day is red tomorrow, and that must mean a
lot of money."

Oh, it all depends, Sheik," said Mrs Fonblanque ;
a ribbon here and a ribbon there makes a world of
difference. But we are getting into questions that no
man can possibly understand."

Perhaps not," he rejoined. " But I was not talking
of a ribbon here and a ribbon there. I had something
solid to go upon. I was thinking of a young English
lady who told me herself that she had not a suspicion
where her waist would be that day six months."

What a nice frank girl she must have been ! "
cried Mrs Fonblanque. " Go on, Sheik ; tell me all
about England, and what struck you most when you
had time to look about you."

The horrible contrasts I saw everywhere," he
replied, " between the upper classes and the lower.
There were miles and miles of palaces, — very ugly

palaces, I grant you, and many of them mere stucco
shams; but all of them exceedingly smug and comfortable
— far more comfortable, I take it, than our
richest sheiks' best tents. That was one side of the
question. But always close behind these houses there
were miles and miles of the vilest and most miserable-looking
slums. How did the rich people make money
enough to fill all these squares and streets ? And how
did the poor people contrive to live at all ? "

Perhaps their money was left to them like mine.
Go on, Sheik."

No," he said ; " I satisfied myself on that point.
With rare exceptions the people who live on their
forefathers in England are a proud, decaying, and
decrepit race, dwelling chiefly in what they term
lodgings, so as to be as free to move about as we are
in our tents. The householders I mean make their
money in the city (Allah only knows how !), and spend
it on the houses in which they live not more than
eight or ten hours out of the four-and-twenty, so as to
have time to sleep and shave and breakfast, and sometimes
dine, there. As for the poor people "

Never mind the poor people. Go on, Sheik."

I will," he continued, severely. " But the contrast
interested me so much that I studied it."

That was like Mr Hicks."

Granted. He, too, would tell you that there were

in all the parks and public places the most beautiful
ladies sitting on their horses in an airy way that no
Arab woman could attempt, or lying cosily wrapped
in costly furs in their ample carriages. But for every
fine lady there was some poor starving flower-girl
shivering in the mud. And then the atmosphere,
after the clear, dry, bracing air of the desert, is
atrocious. It seems to stifle a stranger, and even the
natives themselves are slowly poisoned by the smoke
and fog they breathe. My doctor told me that none
of their scientific men had ever found the fourth generation
of a family that had lived only in London.
They wither away, run to teeth and jaw, and die out."

That is the same in India," exclaimed Mrs Fons
" There is no fourth generation of the Europeans
born in India."

Is that so ? " said the Sheik. " But still that is not
the worst of London "

Xever mind the worst of it. We have that everywhere.
I want to know about London, but only about
the best of it."

Her words and a very soft but earnest look in her
grey eyes made me long to join in the discussion, so
as to give her some of my better experiences ; for, of
course, I had them. I remembered how readily she
had thrown her purse to the girls from the date-packing
factories near Bussorah, and all that she had said

to me about them. Still a new and unusual disguise,
even of silence, is an awkward costume at first. You
cannot drop it suddenly on the deck of a steamer
without feeling undressed and surprised. I contained
myself. I painted a series of rapid little sketches of
Mrs Fonblanque as a soft-eyed daughter of the Good
Samaritan, as a hospital nurse, as a sister of charity ;
and she really seemed much more at home in any of
these characters than as the jaded owner of countless
money-bags.

The best side of the best London society," said the
Sheik at last, when he had relit his hookah, " is not
very good. So Ikhbal-ool-Dowlah used to say every
nicrht in the smoking-room, and he was never far
wrong. There is nothing in England of that delightful
courtship after marriage that is charming enough,
once you have tried it, to justify polygamy. I have
seen young damsels, innocence itself in appearance,
take a gentleman's arm on the very first introduction ;
and worse than that, I have seen them dancing
together publicly, with all the elders of their families
looking on."

This is delightful, Sheik ! Don't stop, please.
What did you tell Fatima about these dreadful
proceedings ? "

"As little as I could, madam, consistently with
truth, for my letters had to be read aloud by a scribe

before all of them. ' You are happy,' I said in my postscript,
' far happier than I am. Could you but know
how shocked I often feel, you would doubly prize the
innocent seclusion of your tents in the boundless
desert, where you have never any of you anything
to think of but the love and gratitude you owe
me.' "

"And what did Fatima say to that?" asked Mrs
Fonblanque.

She said that I was her lord and master, the light
of her eyes, her constant thought by night and day,
and then she begged me to send as many more details
as I could gather together, so as to show her and my
other wives and all my handmaidens what to most
carefully avoid."

And you believed her ? "

"No," replied the Sheik. "My wives are of good
descent. They are far too well-bred, though I say it
myself, to expect me to believe a single word they
say."

That must be rather trying sometimes ? "

Not in the least," he answered, " when you have
established a proper basis."

Well," I said slowly, and in the most exasperating
manner I could think of, " you, sir, seem to have established
a pretty broad basis for yourself. I can be silent
no longer. I can paint no more. After listening to

you ever since breakfasting, I must either talk or
eat."

So be it," said the Sheik, quite graciously. " I
think, if I had the chance, I would rather be silent
than be bound to talk ; and it is high time for tiffin."

Is nobody," I cried, " going to punish me for breaking
all the laws and regulations ? I wanted to talk
an hour ago, and I might just as well have indulged
myself."

"Not at all, Mr Hicks," replied Mrs Fonblanque.
The tiffin bell, which was ringing as you rose, is a
complete excuse for an armed neutrality."

Somebody once said that if the liveliest and most
sensational five-act play went on unremittingly like
a sermon, the audience would go stark, staring mad.
I believe him. It is the intervals that make existence
endurable. The pauses, as I learned afterwards, are
the life and soul of Hindu music. It is not what you
hear that renders a nautch enjoyable, but the rhythmical
regularity of the ecstatic intervals of rest. This,
however, is a question rather for the philosophers than
for me. All I know is, that after a very pleasant
pause, which lasted rather less than twenty minutes,
I found myself once more in front of my easel, and
under all the old regulations.

CHAPTER XVIII.

Mrs Foxblanque and the Sheik continued their
discussion. They were admirably matched, both
being good talkers, which is rare — and both good
listeners, which is rarer. They set to work at once.

Did they stare at you much in England ? " began
Mrs Fonblanque.

"Yes," he answered. "They always paid me that
compliment. ' You are really an Arab ? ' they used
to say. ' How queer ! How very, very interesting ! '
When I travelled through the Scotch Lakes, the
people cheered me heartily whenever the train or
the steamer came to a halting-place. Everything,
indeed, was much pleasant in what they call the
'Provinces' than in London."

And why was that ? "

It reminded me of home," he answered. " The
freedom and hospitality of a good English country-house
are almost Arabian in their simplicity, and the

inmates have nothing of the formal manners and pretentiousness
of London people. But all strangers have
to take their pedigrees with them to show that they
come from some old county family."

"I couldn't do that," said Mrs Fonblanque. "I
really don't think I come from any English county
family ; at least poor papa never betrayed it. What
did you do as a foreigner ? "

Oh ! " laughed the Sheik, " my pedigree was much
longer than that of any man I met. That gave me a
good start. They talked of William the Conqueror,
and I of Abraham. But, after all, a man in London,
as in the desert, stands on his own feet. My visit to
England taught me two things — first to appreciate
myself, secondly to appreciate my wives."

Why your wives, Sheik ? "

In this way, madam. The first thing a man does
with his wife in England is to take her about and show
her off. If she passes muster fairly well, she is given
the title of a 'professional beauty,' and her husband
is at once promoted to some high official appointment.
Any Englishman who took his wife about veiled would
be regarded as a public enemy. And, indeed, it is only
the very richest men who can afford to marry a plain
woman; and even then, they must not be seen too much
together, except in country places."

That can't be very nice for the wives."

No ; that's what I told Fatima. But in England
everything is reversed. Here, if a man is lucky
enough to have a very pretty wife, he is quite silent
about her. There, she is at once the boast and the
plague of his life."

I am almost sorry, Mr Hicks," said Mrs Fons
laughing, " that I turned back with you."

You were wrong," exclaimed the Sheik, earnestly ;
there is nothing you might not do in England with
your western beauty and your oriental training."

May I speak ? " cried I. " I have been .spoken
to."

Yes, on the point," said the Sheik.

If you are sorry, madam," I began, " I am sorry
too."

I really don't think he ought to speak," said Mrs
Fonblanque.

We must hear him first, and settle the legality of
the case afterwards," urged the Sheik.

And you, sir, seem," I continued, severely, " to
have been, according to your own accounts, a good
deal run after by the ladies. Was that so ? "

The Sheik glowered at me, but said nothing.

I almost think he is speaking to the point, Sheik,"
said Mrs Fonblanque, smiling. " I have once or twice
been on the verge of making the same remark. I hold
that Mr Hicks is right."

!No, no, lie is not," answered the Sheik, angrily.
He simply means to be rude. He knows that the
kind of men women run after in England are almost
women themselves. He has no right to speak at all.
I refuse to answer."

Well," she rejoined, " as you like. But you appear,
I must say, to have been considerably persecuted by
them in England. Are Englishmen never free from
the attentions of Englishwomen ? "

Oh yes," said the Sheik, "but only in their
clubs, as they style their monasteries. These luxurious
palaces are state concerns for the preservation of
masculine virtue. No female has ever yet been allowed
to cross their sacred portals, and all but the
very best men are blackball and sent down to the
common cafes and drinking-bars until they are fit for
membership. I was passed in at once, and made a
member of three of the most exclusive clubs in town.
And in spite of Mr Hicks's sneers, I found them very
useful by day ; and in the afternoon and evening very
safe, as I watched the crowds of gaily-dressed, unveiled
women down below."

Can't you see, Sheik," said Mrs Fonblanque, " that
I am unveiled myself ? It is not at all nice of you to
go on reminding me of the barbarous practices of your
own women. Would you wish me to tell Priscilla to
bring a veil up ? "

Certainly not. But most of those women I saw
were not only unveiled, but had two faces."

Good gracious ! Why ? "

One to sleep in, and one for company."

You mean that some of them used a little rouge ?
Oh, that's nothing ; and they only do it, poor things,
to please you men. You ought really to be more
grateful, Sheik. But let us leave the ladies alone.
Were the men at your clubs very amusing ? "

Oh dear, no ! " said the Sheik, " quite the opposite.
You must not speak to any one without being introduced.
You are introduced at last to a famous traveller,
or to a writer of great repute. You expect that
pearls of some price, more or less, will drop from his
mouth. Ten to one he asks you what you think of
1 this beastly weather.' In Arabia we have no weather.
It rains when God pleases, and that is very
seldom; and we no more think of talking about it
than of talking about any other of nature's operations.
In England, madam, the men talk of very little
else."

I thought they always talked scandal in their
clubs, Sheik, and told one another entertaining
stories ? "

"Not at all. When they are not talking of the
weather, they talk chiefly," he added, with some reluctance,
" of horse-racing — a most villainous purpose

to put an innocent horse to. I tried it myself, and it ,
cost me everything in Fatima's little travelling-trunk
of family silver."

Oh-ho ! " said Mrs Fonblanque. " I thought the
Custom-house officers had taken it away from you."

So they did," rejoined the Sheik, hastily. " I
forgot to tell you how cleverly I managed to buy it
back."

Indeed ! And was Fatima angry ? "

I don't know," said the Sheik ; " I was. I invariably
chose the best horses, for in my knowledge of
horse-flesh I had an enormous ' pull.' But they never
won. You require at least two horses for a horse-race.
You may take it as a rule that the best horse never
wins. They both start, as a matter of course; but
they have nothing whatever to do with the result.
A race is simply a big gambling machine, in which
nobody can win but the bookmakers or croupiers ; and
they know about as much of a horse as I do of the
great auk."

And that's what you talk about in your clubs ? "
said Mrs Fonblanque.

Yes, the weather and that ; and, at certain times
of the year, of fox-hunting. In Arabia we look upon
foxes and jackals as vermin. We had as lief hunt a
weasel. If we want to hunt, we send a defiant message
to the nearest tribe, and, with our spears in our

hands, we jump on to our horses and follow up the
messenger. There is some sport in that. But a fox —
bah ! And then there is no proper riding-ground in
England. It is all gates and hedges."

Never mind the hunting and the horses and the
hedges, Sheik," said Mrs Fonblanque ; " tell me something
more about the English ladies."

I would readily do so," he replied — " I am more
at home there ; but both you and Mr Hicks seem to
think that whenever I am speaking of the ladies I am
speaking of myself."

"Many men, no doubt, do that," she answered;
but you are different. You could always look back
to your family tents in the desert. You stand on an
entirely different platform."

Well, perhaps I do," he replied, smiling. " And
there was, I own, one thing in their domestic arrangements
that puzzled me immensely. We have a great
many wives and very few children. They have only
one wife apiece and far more children than they want.
How do you explain it ? "

"It is not for me to explain, Sheik. I have no
children, and I told you that I had never been in
England."

I beg your pardon ; I forgot," he answered. " But
when I was there, it was quite a common thing for
every lady of ' a certain age as they term it, to call

out among a crowd of guests, and say, ' I am delighted
to meet you, sir ; but fie, fie ! you naughty man, everybody
is saying that your poor dear wives are terribly
expensive in their tastes, and that you have run away
from them so as to try and economise a little.' "

And your retort ? "

It was always the same. I invariably used to
answer, ' But surely children are very expensive too.
A child costs more than a wife, and the outlay begins
at a much earlier period. Your large English families
would be simply insupportable in the desert.' "

You dreadful man ! " cried Mrs Fonblanque.

I may be dreadful or not," answered the Sheik.
My personality has nothing to do with the present
question. But you have no idea of the supreme self-complacency
of Englishmen, or how they run down
everything that is not English. When they were good
enough to let me see what they really thought, I was
astonished to find that they thought everybody born
out of England must be flighty, unbusinesslike, and,
above all, immoral."

Are they very moral themselves, Sheik ? "

Well, madam," he replied, " that depends on the
importance you attach to a mere figure of speech. In
Scotland I should say they are moral — absurdly so.
In England, unless you happen to be a clergyman,
you must either be very good, or appear to be good.

The clergymen, like the learned ladies of whom I told
you, are marked out from the rest by distinctive badges.
They always wear black coats and white ties. That is
enough. They are everywhere accepted as good menon
account of their costume, but it always covers a
multitude of children."

"Oh, Sheik!" said Mrs Fonblanque. "You don't
mean to say that the English clergy go in for polygamy
! "

No, no, far from it. The bishops and the priests
are the husbands of one wife. The statesmen and
lawyers and richer sort of merchants were apparently
allowed more, though they would never confess it."

You are wrong there, Sheik. None of the English
novels I have read ever hinted at such an extraordinary
exemption for any privileged class."

I think I am right, all the same," said the Sheik.
"The English novel, as you see it now, does not in
the least represent English society. It is written by
women for women — and children."

May I speak ? " I cried.

It was eventually determined that I might.

Rhoda Boughton and Ouida," I said, " are women
too ; but would you call their novels food for
babes ? "

You may speak, Mr Hicks, when we permit you
to speak ; but we cannot possibly allow you to ask

VOL. i. n

questions. I read everything those two ladies write,
and think it all very charming. Go on, Sheik."

Where was I ? " he asked.

"You were envying the clergymen their black coats
and white ties."

Oh yes, I remember," said the Sheik. " Well,
whenever I travelled 'incog,' as they call it, I wore
a plain tweed travelling suit, and this seemed to bea
badge of all that is bad, for directly I got out of
my carriage to buy a bun or a sandwich, a lady
always stepped up to me on the platform. c Are you
one of us ? " she always asked. ' Have you found perfect
peace ? No ? then take this.' I always took off
my hat in the English fashion. Sometimes I lost my
bun or my sandwiches, and more than once I lost
my train, and with a little tract in my hand, I had
to console myself, as best I could, with the terrible
ends of better fellows than myself. This is a pastime
quite unknown in Arabia, and it would, I think,
amuse Fatima immensely."

"They could not possibly speak to you like that,
Sheik," said Mrs Fonblanque, "and on a railway
platform too, without a proper introduction."

Oh yes, they did," he answered. " But they were,
of course, always ladies of what just now I called ' a
certain age'"

"Well," said Mrs Fonblanque, "you astonish me.

The women at home seem to have a good deal of
impudence and any amount of licence."

That' replied the Sheik, " though I did not like
to say it before, is really what struck me most in
England. There were houris in all the houses, even
in the hotels — houris in clean print dresses and pretty
little white caps, doing the common household work,
yet always smiling and pleasant, and waiting about
to execute your orders. I don't think Latina would
have liked them. One day, too, Madam Fonblanque,
I went to the London law courts — the only day I
have really regretted. A number of ladies to whom
we should have given the sack or the bowstring were
on their trial. ' Poor things,' said I to myself "

Why poor things ? " interrupted Mrs Fonblanque.

"Because I pitied them at first, until I saw how
triumphant they all looked. The court was full of
other ladies, all most beautifully dressed, who took
their side at once."

Then the ladies won ? " asked Mrs Fonblanque,
eagerly.

In ' a canter,' as they call it, in their horse-races,"
answered the Sheik, devoting himself for a few seconds
to his hookah. " The husbands, instead of being told
to take their wives out of court and get rid of them as
the law directs, were required to sign bonds before
the judge or kali for as large a sum as the ladies in

the audience and the gentlemen who recorded the
proceedings for the ladies who were unable to be
present (this is what they call a jury) thought becoming.
In England you may take your wife about
unveiled ; but if she turn out a shrew, or something
worse, you are held responsible. You have to signa
bond for so much money every year. She laughs
at you, and so does everybody else. I was sorry I
went to that court, I thought it best to tell Fatima
nothing about it, and yet all my friends said it was
the most fashionable entertainment in London, and
as there is nothing to pay, it was always much more
crowded than the theatres."

"Those recorders — the gentlemen who recorded,"
said Mrs Fonblanque — " must be very useful."

"That's precisely as you take it," answered the
Sheik. "In the desert we wouldn't think much of
them. Put a spear in their hands instead of a goose-quill,
and they couldn't make a living anywhere between
here and Bagdad. Truth is never new ; you
can't invent it if you would; and after all, truth is
what you want if you have to pay for it every
morning. All our truths have been carefully tested
by men of infinite learning for a thousand years,
and yet the Koran is still enough for me."

"You paid for your wives," said Mrs Fonblanque,
or you say so. Never mind the Koran. You told

us just now that all of your wives were far too well-bred
ever to expect to be believed. Wasn't that so,
Mr Hicks ? How about truth now, Sheik ? "

Oh," he replied, just as I was going to speak,
Mr Hicks knows nothing about the Bedouins. We
have very different rules for the men and for the
women. There are two standards, just as there are
two heavens. A man must, as the Kali's scribe said
in court, always speak 'the truth, the whole truth,
and nothing but the truth.' An Arabian lady can
always say what she likes. But in England, and
especially in London, a large number of very clever
men make their daily bread by retailing the latest
falsehoods at so much a line to-day, and at so much
more for contradicting them tomorrow. Walk down
Fleet Street, their news bazaar, Madam Fonblanque,
where these professional story-tellers drive their
abominable trade. Buy all they thrust upon you as
you go along on foot, and you will find everything
you thought good to be hopelessly bad, and everything
you so utterly despised, and your fathers before
you, to be the only chance of national salvation."

How dreadful ! " exclaimed Mrs Fonblanque.

"You have appealed to Mr Hicks once or twice.
I appeal to him now. Have I described Fleet Street
correctly or not ? "

You wouldn't let me speak when I wanted to — I

shan't speak now. I am not a child's doll, to be
squeezed whenever you have occasion to get a squeak
out of me."

No ; I suppose not' said the Sheik. " I think,
Madam Fonblanque, you will agree with me that Mr
Hicks would have contradicted me if he could."

I do," answered Mrs Fonblanque, simply. " We
shall have to manage without him. Well, Sheik ? "

Well, if anybody in Arabia wishes to feel a new
sensation, he has either to buy a new horse or a new
wife. Both are expensive. But in London you pay a
penny — one penny only — and your hair stands on end
till you have paid another penny for another paper asa
corrective."

"You seem to be a changeable race. Eh, Mr
Hicks ? "

That is true," said the Sheik. " But you mustn't
talk to Mr Hicks, if you please."

Well, we'll talk at him," she answered, cordially.
You know something of men, Sheik, or should do, out
of your infinite knowledge of women. Should you
describe Mr Hicks as changeable ? "

I think I should," he replied, thoughtfully. " He
has a changeable type of face, and then, you see,
everything is changeable among the people he comes
from. The young ladies, as I told you a short time
back, have no idea where their waists will be this day

six months, and the men change their Government
every year or two. A people like that can have no
real stake in the world. Our ideas, though Mahomet
modified them a little, have virtually remained the
same ever since the days of Esau."

The Sheik drew a long breath (as well he might),
and so did I.

You are on your trial, Mr Hicks," said Mrs Fons
mildly. " Are you, or are you not, as changeable
as the rest of your people ? The Sheik says you
are. I pause for further evidence. Don't be so
glum."

"Take that," I said, handing her a sketch-book,
which I had filled as they were talking with illustrative
sketches of the Sheik's personal adventures.
"That's why I was so glum. The Sheik, if a trifle
difficult to follow, is a most amusing story-teller.
But still I thought you might want a reminder of
what he said."

Mrs Fonblanque gave me an incredulous sort of
look, and then, with a disdainful wave of the hand,
she passed my sketch-book on to the Sheik.

Yes," he said slowly, " that is perfect. That is the
English Miss as I knew her. I wish I were going-round
the world like you, Mr Hicks, with a chance of
meeting her again somewhere on the other side by-and-by."


"Perhaps you are going round the world, Sheik,"
said Mrs Fonblanque in the most deliberate manner.

No, I am only going to Muscat."

Nonsense ! " she laughed. " That depends entirely
on me, and at present you are so entertaining that I
shall certainly not let you off."

You are too good."

No, I am not good at all. But I like to be amused,
and I don't know which amuses me most — your loquacity
or Mr Hicks's silence. I must ask Priscilla."

We came to Bushire eventually.

It is a pity to stop the steamer," said Mrs Fons


So it is," replied the Captain, who had rejoined us.
But it is too late to go ashore, and I shall be glad of
a rest."

"When the steamer starts again," said Mrs Fons
" you will continue your adventures, Sheik ? "

Oh yes," he answered ; " now that I have got underway,
as the Captain calls it, I will go on as long as
you like. But I shall call on Mr Hicks for his experiences
before I continue mine. Salaam, madam ! salaam
sir ! The sunset calls me to prayer."

Has he ever been in London ? " asked Mrs Fons
as he disappeared.

I really think so," I answered. " But whether he
has been there or not, he has a very original mind.

You know nothing of London. But he told you a
great deal more about it than I knew myself."

"Yes, yes," cried Mrs Fonblanque, as I assisted her
to pick up her wraps, " he is clever, decidedly clever.
But "

But what ? " I asked meekly, with my arms full of
shawls and rugs.

I can't get him to look me full in the face, and he
reminds me most vividly every now and then of someone
I have met. At first I thought he reminded me
of my old Jesuit tutor ; but after hearing his experiences,
I am again completely puzzled."

CHAPTER XIX.

I can candidly say that Bushire, the "Father of
Cities," scarcely deserves its name. We anchored in
the roads nearly three miles off, and could not get a
proper view of it until the next morning, and then we
only saw through our telescopes a peninsula of low
level sand covered with an irregular mass of two-storeys
houses, built of dried clay. Each of the more
important houses was fitted with wind-catchers, something
like the windsails on our ship. They perform
the same vague and very occasional functions of the
cow-catchers in front of the American and Indian
locomotives. If a stray gust of wind comes their way
they catch it. That, from the way in which they are
built, is inevitable. And in the meantime they pose
as the one distinctive feature of Bushire.

Are you going to wear that wonderful costume today
? " I asked Mrs Fonblanque, as she moved away
from my telescope.

Oh, you needn't make a guy of yourself to-day,

Mrs Fonblanque," said the skipper, cheerily. "The
Eesident's launch is waiting to take the whole party
off. His people will accompany us wherever we go.
Their costumes will be imposing enough for the lot of
us. You may, perhaps, find a thick veil useful. But
pray don't deprive your Arabian friend of the costume
that became him so admirably."

The Sheik looked up from his hookah. " I shan't
go to the Eesidency," he said firmly. Then he very
solemnly betook himself once more to his large amber
mouthpiece.

And why not, Sheik, if we all go ? " inquired Mrs
Fonblanque.

Because they wouldn't care to see me," he replied.
In London I was somebody. I am somebody still in
Bagdad and Bussorah. In the desert I am a personage.
But now we are virtually in India, and to all
intents and purposes I am a native. That means I
belong to the big world surrounding your little island,
and am utterly insignificant in consequence. Isn't
that so, Captain Forbes ? "

I suspect it is," answered the Captain, frankly.

But if you don't go to the Eesidency, what will you
do ? "

I will go ashore with the rest of you, and show
you round the town. I will amuse the Nun, and try
to keep the gentleman of too many experiences away

from the brandy-bottle. Then I will wait patiently in
the agent's office till you come back again, and if I
can find any good carpets I'll have them laid out for
Mrs Fonblanque to look at."

Done with you," cried Captain Forbes. " That's
my programme too. I don't care much for society
outside of my own ship. We'll go together and wait
together, and Mrs Fonblanque and Mr Hicks will
bring us back all the latest gossip from the Residency."


Mrs Fonblanque, however, insisted upon taking the
Nun with her. The Nun demurred at first, but at last
she consented to go.

I soon began to envy the others their apparent
self-abnegation. The Sheik, however, as long as we
were together, did his duty conscientiously. He made
us visit every nook and cranny of the vilest and most
unsavoury town I had ever set foot in. The Nun,
soft and generous-hearted creature as she was, had a
little copper coin ready for every beggar who came up,
and they soon swarmed round us like a crowd of buzzing
mosquitoes. She tried, too, in her gentle but
ineffectual manner, to brush away with her handkerchief
the flies that encircled the large black eyes of
every naked little Persian child we met ; and as Mrs
Fonblanque's purse was ready when the Nun's was
exhausted, we were followed wherever we went by a

long retinue of children. Here the " gentleman of too
many experiences' as the Sheik termed him, came in
handy. Sent to Coventry as he had very properly
been, he naturally wished to rehabilitate himself in
society. He dogged our steps from afar, and when
the ladies were not looking round he successfully produced
a startling stampede among the poor little pests
who followed us. They had just found out that Mrs
Fonblanque had no copper coins in her purse. She
was a regular silver-mine, and a very gracious and
abundant silver-mine too ; and when I was beinnnino-
to be alarmed for her, the obnoxious passenger so
freely and so successfully used his stick that he scattered
the children in a moment. Then he came up
smiling, as if thoroughly reinstated. I did not hear
the precise words that Mrs Fonblanque, instigated by
the Nun, actually used; but he fell behind at once,
and that was, I am thankful to say, the last I saw of
him.

How did Bushire strike me ? I scarcely know.
Like many other seaport towns in Asia — and elsewhere
— it looks best from the deck of a steamer. The
bazaars were the merest and muddiest bridle-paths,
with squalid shops on either side, and there was little
or nothing in them but cheap goods from Europe, produce
from the country inland, and tea from India.
Every shopkeeper, whatever else he dealt in, seemed to

deal in tea, and in many of the shops there were considerable
quantities of bad turquoises.

The men, sturdy hulking fellows, dressed in nothing
but coarse blue calico blouses, open at the neck to
show their hairy chests, and with queer little round
felt hats on their heads, had such pink and white complexions
that Mrs Fonblanque thought they must be
rouged. The few women we saw had lost not only
their comeliness, but their individuality, in their
clothes. They were muffled up in coarse blue cloth
wraps and skirts, and green trousers, and high boots
of untanned leather. The outer garment of blue cloth
was drawn completely over their faces, with a narrow
slit cut across for their bold black eyes. I have
always noticed among the veiled women I have
chanced to meet, that the closer they are veiled the
bolder their eyes appear to be. This may be an illusion,
or it may be a natural law, but to arrive at the
exact truth the other side of the question should be
studied. These particular Bushire ladies, however,
wore as many clothes as the proverbial Dutchman,
and as they waddled along they looked for all the
world like so many bundles of old clothes going voluntarily
to the wash.

Some of the buildings in Bushire were rather impressive
— from the outside. And — by way, I suppose,
of showing a good front — all the best buildings

faced the sea. But it cannot possibly be a slight on
Bushire to say that the buildings which really impressed
me most were the buildings in embryo. Here
the Sheik was good enough to explain to us the process
of their erection. " Brother," said the man on the
top scaffolding, " in the name of God, toss me up a
brick." And the man below, as he threw it up, said,
Brother, in the name of God, receive the brick."

Mrs Fonblanque and I laughed a little at these very
ceremonious builders. But their work, though slowly
put together, was as true and square and accurate as
if the workmen had all been English or Scotch Freemasons
; and the houses in Bushire had, at all events,
the merit of being stoutly built. Deliberation and
courtesy are not always wasted, and are perhaps too
much neglected by the European contractor in his
haste to grow rich.

I certainly did not like Bushire. But for all that, I
could not help noticing that the khans' and merchants'
offices had fine large courts inside them, with great
warehouses or " go-downs " on the ground-floor. The
little Armenian church had not, it is true, much to
boast of in the way of architecture, but there were
some touching monuments to the British officers who
fell in 1857. The Custom-house, though the officials
do all they can to hamper trade, is a building of importance
; and close beside it we came upon the Governor's

palace, over which floated the Persian flag, a
pretty green ensign with a yellow nameless lion carrying
a sword in his month. The building, however,
was falling into decay — and not unnaturally, when
every new governor has to buy his place from the
Prince of Far, and make what he can out of it before
he is dismissed.

A number of Persian soldiers were standing about
on guard. They wore soiled scarlet tunics, and such
breeches and boots as Providence put in their way.
They were armed with the Field rifle, and though
their guns were dirty and their bayonets covered with
rust, few of them were under five feet nine inches in
height, and they might, I should say, be formidable
fellows if they were properly led. And they should
be properly led ; for Mrs Fonblanque noticed at once
the difference between the men and their officers, who
were handsome fellows, well built, tall, fair, and comely,
and carried their inches as if born to command. The
officers evidently took some pride in their dress, and
one of them, an extremely courteous man, who tried
to turn the guard out in honour of us or our attendants,
politely allowed Mrs Fonblanque to examine his
Astrakan hat. He explained to her, through the Sheik,
that what we know as Astrakan in Europe is only the
skin of an unborn lamb, and can be had anywhere
where sheep are common. In the middle of this rather

complicated translation of foreign idioms, an orderly
came up to remind him that it was time to fire the
mid-day gun. In another twenty minutes or so the
guard whom he had tried to call out in our honour
were properly awakened. But the officer thoughtfully
ordered them to escort our party behind the shelter of
the nearest wall, and very courageously fired the gun
himself. The guns, he explained to us afterwards,
had been captured from the Turks, and were now
almost as decayed as the palace, and honeycombed to
the extreme edge of their bronze muzzles. ISTo one, he
added, but the chief officer on duty was ever bound to
apply the portfire to their touch-holes. Mrs Fons
thought him a gallant officer, and so, from the
little I had seen of him, did I. He was pleased with
our compliments, but explained that he had had the
manifold advantages of a training under the Shah's
German officers at Teheran.

He insisted upon escorting us to the British Residency,
a good substantial building, with many staircases
and many courtyards, and zealously guarded by
a number of smart-looking sepoy from India. Here
the day's troubles really began. We had made a terrible
mistake. The Eesident of Bushire has a country
house as well as a town house. Just now he was in
his country house six miles off, and that was why he
had sent his steam-launch off for us, and why Captain

vol. i. o

Forbes and the Persian engineer in charge of the
launch had, without in the least knowing the cause of
the dispute, held a fierce altercation during our little
voyage to the Custom-house.

Everything, however, in these remote regions is, or
should be, done by telegraphy. And we quickly discovered
that in the Eesidency itself there was a telegraph
office on the balcony beside the drawing-room.
By the help of the Armenian clerk, who worked it, we
were asked to come down as soon as possible, so as to
be in time for tiffin. A rough sort of dog-cart was
ordered out of the stable, and while the grooms were
putting the horse in, the Persian officer and the Sheik
took their leave and went off together, and we were
left to our own devices.

I really could not venture to drive. I did not know
our destination, to begin with, and then the Sheik with
his last words had assured me that there were no roads.
Mrs Fonblanque thought, I suppose, that I could not
drive, but after a time she consented to sit beside the
Persian driver, while the Nun and I climbed up into
the back seat.

The driver, not unnaturally, spoke nothing but Persian.
Mrs Fonblanque knew nothing of it ; no more
did I. The Nun spoke it fluently, and until she began
to talk, I had no idea that it was such a pretty language.
The Sheik was right about the roads. They were like

General Wade's at the early period, and the Nun was
soon far too preoccupied in imploring me to prevent
her falling off to interpret Mrs Fonblanque's questions
accurately to the driver. The jolting was dreadful.
"We were going in a straight line, much as a field-gun
might have gone at some desperate moment, across a
desert of little sand-hills, and along a route that was
marked out on one side by telegraph posts. There
were no springs to our cart, and the Nun looked as if
she were going to faint, and never recovered anything
like her usual colour till our horse took us through a
broad deep pool and splashed everybody liberally.
After that, though I had still to hold on to her, I was
fairly astonished at the Nun's sprightliness. But by
this time Mrs Fonblanque, who had not received the
slightest sympathy from the Persian driver, was evidently
suffering in her turn. She would not talk
through the Nun in Persian, and she would not say a
word to me in plain English. I pressed her to tell me
why and how she suffered. I implored her to change
places with me or with the Nun. She declined to
speak even then. At last she said she had a headache ;
and she was obviously cross. So I did what she had
herself beseeched me to do. I made it my duty to
look after the Nun a little, to cheer her up, and entertain
her, and to see that she was not stifled for want
of fresh air and frank companionship.

I succeeded better than I expected. To me this
lumpy road along the telegraph wires was a novel experience
; but the Nun knew all about it, and though
we only penetrated for about six miles into Persia, I
soon began to think that I had " done " the country
completely. First of all, she told me to look at Bushire.
As imposing from the sandy desert as from the sea, it
was a two-faced, empty-hearted imposition at the best.
The city, she said, as she looked back, was exactly like
all the other Persian towns she knew. Here the high
city walls happened to be two miles round, and very
unusually formidable. But there was a big gap every
hundred yards or so, through which the enemy might
come in — if they chose.

We met, or crossed, as we proceeded on our reckless
career, long strings of donkeys, camels, and mules,
coming and going. The mules and camels were journeying
to and from Shiraz, and of those outward bound,
each mule had his regulation bale on his back, and
each camel his two bales, the one balancing the other ;
and if a sulky expression ever means anything, none
of the camels appeared to think that their burdens
were fairly adjusted. Of the donkeys, some carried
firewood, but most of them were laden with huge black
skins of water for Bushire, where there is none. They
went in strings, with a single driver behind, who sat
almost on the tail of the last and biggest donkey of

the lot, and yet nevertheless, by the use of strong
language and the bold flourishes of a great stick, managed
somehow or other to keep the file in tolerable
marching order. Most of the donkeys had their nostrils
slit up for about an inch and a half ; and this was, as
the Nun explained to me, a cruel practice, so as to enable
them to breathe more air, and so travel farther.
Then we were passed by the three horses laden with
the mails from our steamer. Every mail, it seems, big
or little, is started off on the backs of three horses,
which are galloped full speed for twenty miles, and
then changed for others. The speed is merely for
bravado. The three horses are also expected to carry
two passengers. This they call riding chapar. Two
passengers do not often turn up in Persia ; but when
they do, and if they are fond of sight-seeing, nobody
cares if the mails are a few days late.

By this time the Nun and I were heartily tired of
the monotony of the road, and both perhaps a little
put out by Mrs Fonblanque's silence ; and as I really
could not get her to speak, I questioned the Nun about
her experiences in Persia. She answered me very
pleasantly. Her descriptions were vivid and almost
humorous. I could hear the rude Persian children
laughing at her bad Persian. I could see the schools
she had to visit, all open to the streets like booths
in a bazaar, with a crowd of eager children frantically

reciting their lessons to an old begoggled
pedagogue.

Had she seen the Shah ? Of course she had, and
seen him often. He was a man with big moustaches
and a clean-shaven chin, and always dressed in plain
black clothes. He often used to drive past the
nunnery, behind his crimson-tailed horses, attended
by a crowd of men in scarlet. She had even been
admitted into the sacred precincts of the harem, and
had conversed with several of his wives. There were
some three hundred of her own sex there, but many
were still quite children, and more were negro .
They were all reviewed by their royal
master every Thursday ; and when I asked her if he
still went through the form of throwing the handkerchief,
she said he did.

We were getting along capitally, when Mrs Fons
suddenly made the driver understand that
she wanted him to stop.

I really cannot stand the nonsense you two are
talking," she said sharply, in reply to my remonstrances
as she tried to alight. "What can a Nun
know about throwing the handkerchief ? And what
do you mean by cross-examining her in that way ?
You are making yourself ridiculous, Mr Hicks. This
jolting is too much for me. I shall get out and walk.
Be good enough to help me down."

I refused point-blank. To walk under this broiling
sun was simply impossible for a lady. It was bad
enough to be driven. Mrs Fonblanque's indignation
affected us all in different ways. The driver, knowing
nothing but his own language and the language
that is common to all of us, grinned. The Nun looked
at Mrs Fonblanque with a suspicion of tears in her
clear eyes ; and I, hurt though I was, frowned as
serenely and impressively as I could. We carried
the day amongst us. She kept her seat. And when
the Nun in a half whisper told me of a visit she had
once paid to the Well of Death, into which they used
to throw all the cruel and unkind and childless and
unloving women of Shiraz, I contrived, rather adroitly
I thought, to turn the conversation to the Plague.
Here she became exceedingly pathetic, though she
said little about herself, and nothing, of course, of the
man she loved. I began to be really interested in
what she said, and I honestly think she was almost
as sorry as I was when the soldiers on duty presented
arms to us as we drove through the Eesidency gateway.


Here everything was suddenly changed. We were
gently assisted, as if by magic, into a princely mansion,
standing in a magnificent and ample garden, full
of brilliant flowers, and surrounded further than we
could see by citron-trees and sycamores. But, as we

entered the house, the change in Mrs Fonblanque personally
was almost as magical as the change in our
surroundings. She put us, and our hosts for that
matter, at our ease in a moment. And very gracious
people they seemed to be as they led us through the
ample entrance-hall. A few hundred yards away, we
had left all we knew of Persia — a narrow, monotonous,
and arid experience at the best — and here we were
pleasantly located in a luxurious and comfortable English
home. The Resident and his lady might have
been taken anywhere for county magnates, and as
admirable types of courtly old-fashioned English hospitality.
It did the three of us good, I fancy, even
to look at their daughters. Both of them had frank
eyes and merry faces. Both were physically fresh and
fair, and very sweet and girlish ; and as we saw them
in their simple muslin gowns, it was almost impossible
to believe that there could be any sort of human
link between them and those slouching bundles of old
clothes we had encountered in the bazaar. The very
rooms in the Residency and the very furniture had
an appearance of refinement and repose. In the
drawing-room the last English and French books and
periodicals were scattered about on the tables, cut and
half cut. The open piano was covered with music,
new and old. The dining-room, though the glaring

sunlight was carefully shut off, seemed to glitter again
with snowy linen, well-cut glass, and sparkling silver.
I began, as I took my place at the tiffin-table, to
realise how it is that people are tempted to waste
their hopes and energies in the East.

CHAPTER XX.

How is it that men with plenty of brains and ability
and an over-abundance of energy do waste themselves
in the East ? There is, for one thing, a sense of finality
about an Indian appointment that is perhaps more
gratifying to a man's relatives than to himself. But
why should anybody deliberately drop out of the
running for twenty or thirty years ? The luxury of
the president's drawing-room and dining-room, and
the noiseless attentions of his innumerable servants,
seemed to solve one part of the question; and, indeed,
I have never seen a happier or more contented-looking
man than the Eesident as he sat in the middle
of his family circle. I should like to have discussed
this latest phase of my transition theory, and its
adaptability to all manner of circumstances and
places, with Mrs Fonblanque. Unfortunately, however,
she was not sitting beside me, and though she
seemed to be doing her best to please everybody else,
she would not answer my looks.

I consoled myself nevertheless. The tiffin was good.

The Eesident's cook had been carefully trained. The
Eesiclent himself was brimming over with genial hospitality.
I should probably never see him again.
Mrs Fonblanque, unless we chanced to be shipwrecked,
I should meet every day for a fortnight.
In one glance I tried to show her what I thought.
Then I devoted myself to the Eesident. And he
most amply repaid me, not so much by anything
he said himself, for here he was very guarded, but
by introducing me to a gentleman directly opposite,
who was, said the Eesident, the one man who knew
Persia; and this gentleman's health, it seemed, sent
him out here every year. I gathered indirectly from
the general conversation that he was a doctor, and
had once practised in the country.

Then the Eesident politely devoted himself to Mrs
Fonblanque, who sat on his right, and they seemed to
find a good deal to say to one another.

My friend the traveller — who had, by the way, a
long brown beard that went down below the tablecloth,
and curious brown eyes that evidently took in
far more than they gave out — managed to engross me
almost immediately, for he told me some of the things
apart, of course, from the mystery surrounding Mrs
Fonblanque — that I most wanted to hear just then.
He knew so much about Persia that I scarcely liked
to interrupt him at first.

Is Shiraz wine," I began at last, " really as good
as the Persian poets say ? "

"Well, I have tasted better," he replied, making
rather a wry face. " I never kept it myself when I
lived in Persia, and I should recommend you not to
touch it so long as you can get a sound dry sherry.
Try that decanter of our host's to your right. That
will show you what Shiraz wine is not like."

"Yes," I answered, smiling. "But, as a traveller,
I am bound to be inquisitive. This is a capital
sherry. Is Shiraz wine ? "

"The very finest of it fetches a shilling and sixpence
a bottle, the ordinary stuff threepence, and
both are dear at the price. There are two kinds,
Shiraz and Hampden, and the prevailing flavour in
each is that of sweet spirits of nitre. I fancy that
Hafiz was easily pleased, and that he must often
have had a very bad headache in the morning.
Perhaps the Cholat grape, like everything else here,
has degenerated since then. You smile, but I have
lived in Persia too long to believe in anything that
Persia produces now."

"Russia, you mean" — I had read my newspapers,
of course — " has stopped Persian productiveness altogether."


No," he continued ; " I did not exactly mean that,
though Russia, no doubt, is gradually monopolising

the whole import trade. I was thinking of Persia
some centuries back, when Persian exquisite set the
fashion to the whole Eastern world, and Persian poets
sang in every oriental court, and Persian merchants
carried her art manufactures to all the ports of India,
Arabia, and Cathay. There is no Persian industry
now, except, perhaps, that of carpets and rugs, and
even the best of these are snapped up by the Prussians."


"That is a pity," I answered. "But why is the
industry decaying if the demand has increased?"

Well," he answered, " a few years back no two of
the rugs here were identical in design. Every workman
did what was in him, and signed his carpets as
our painters do their pictures. stow the whole trade
is in the hands of foreigners. Favourite old carpets
are copied and re-copied till the weavers see that
originality does not pay. And to make matters worse,
they are deliberately — deliberately I say — encouraged
to use aniline dyes."

You speak severely," I ventured to remark.

I speak as I feel," he answered, " and as every one
interested in Persia must feel. The Shah, if he gave
you an interview, would talk in very much the same
strain. I hear that he has just issued an edict, under
which the hands of any carpet-maker found using
aniline dyes will be chopped off then and there, and

nailed up over his own house-door, as a warning to
other evil-doers."

That seems sufficiently drastic," I said. " Do you
approve of it ? "

"Well," replied the traveller smiling, "I am, I
own, very fond of old Persian rugs. Their colours
blend so marvellously well that one envies the men
who foresaw the changes that time would make.
Perhaps I should approve of the Shah's edict if there
were the slightest chance of this law or any other
Persian law being effectively administered. The
Shah, after Baron Peter took him to Europe, came
back with many good schemes in his head for the
reformation of his country. He began by putting
letter-boxes up in all the towns and villages through
which men with a grievance or a suggestion were to
correspond with him direct. The magistrates, however,
ordered that every one who dared to approach
the pillar-boxes should " eat stick " — that is, should
be soundly bastinado. The Shah is like the Czar.
He represents and embodies a terribly strong autocracy,
but personally he is helpless."

Has he ever been to Bushire ? " I inquired.

No. He is always on the move, but he cannot
achieve a visit to the south. Every year the people
here think that he is coming. But the local governors
are afraid of his followers, who are as hungry and

almost as numerous as the main column of an invading
army of locusts. They always invent a famine,
and that stops him. They are right, of course, to protect
their people ; and then perhaps some of them
wouldn't exactly like to have their book scrutinised
by his auditors."

"What would he do to them," I asked, " if the books
were wrong ? "

"It is difficult to say. But there is nothing he
might not do if he chose. The grandfather of the
present governor of Shiraz was boiled to death. The
bakers of Ispahan, when they were caught adulterating
their bread, were baked alive in their own
ovens. A wealthy merchant of the same town
was weak enough to complain to the Shah that
he had been illegally taxed. He was brought before
the Prince in charge of the district. ' What
a brave man you must be to report me to the
Shah!' said the Prince. 'What a large-hearted,
lion-hearted man ! I really must have a look at
that curious heart of yours ! ' And in a few minutes
it was brought to him on a plate."

How very shocking ! " I cried.

Well, I don't know," said the doctor. " I am
inclined to think that the system suits the country.
We hear now and then of an atrocity in high
places ; but for that very reason there is little or no

crime among the people. And as a rule, life and
property are safer in Persia than in any other
country I know."

Well," said I, " I must of course bow to your
superior knowledge. But you were saying just now
that the trade of the country is monopolised by
foreigners. Are there many foreigners in Bushire ?
I should have thought that foreigners — European
foreigners at all events — would have insisted upon
some better system of sanitary arrangements."

Perhaps I was speaking rather too generally," he
replied. " There are, I believe, only three European
firms here — two Scotch firms and a Dutch one.
But they finance most of the wholesale trade. The
rest of the business is entirely in the hands of Jews
and Armenians, and it is difficult to ascertain which
of them do most harm to the country. It takes seven
Scotchmen, they say, to cheat a Jew, and seven Jews to
cheat an Armenian. You can judge then of the actual
position of the unfortunate aborigines. The Americans
are just beginning to cut in, and then the misery
of Bushire will be complete."

My dear," said the Resident's lady, " the doctor
and Mr Hicks and yourself have done nothing but talk
• shop ' ever since we sat down. Tiffin is over now,
and it is time for us to get up and try if we can't find
something better to talk about."

I felt, as we all rose, the implied rebuke ; but I
had learned a good deal I have not recorded here that
was of interest to myself, and I had the materials fora
letter that would, I knew, be of the greatest interest
to my uncle.

The ladies went straight to the piano : after eating,
ladies always go straight to the piano, just as men go
straight to the smoking-room. And as I followed
them, I saw in this a very pretty little problem for
solution later on.

You sing, Mrs Fonblanque ? " said the younger
daughter.

Oh yes, I sing," answered Mrs Fonblanque nonchalantly
; " but who doesn't ? "

I thought I recognised a clear way here towards
making my peace with her.

I opened the pages of a music-book, and then behind
it said aside, " Do sing. There's a piano here. You
know we have no piano on board. Keep your promise
and sing really."

Our host and hostess pressed Mrs Fonblanque too,
just as I was speaking. She bowed acquiescence to
them, but kept her words for me. " Thank you so
much, Mr Hicks ! " she said icily and aside, as the
girls were bringing up their stores of new music. " I
will sing. I accept your challenge. You are a flirt, sir,
and a fool. But I will do what you ask. I will sing

VOL. I. P

really,' as you insist on saying. I will show you that
I can do something you cannot do. I will try my best,
Mr Hicks, to make you feel very small indeed for once.
Then I will never speak to you again, and you and your
Nun may go on talking duets as long as ever you please."

All this was said in the gentlest tones, and the girls,
I am sure, thought that I was having a very happy
time of it.

I was telling Mr Hicks," she continued aloud, as
she took her seat at the piano, " that all the arts are
sisters. He is fond as a painter of painting tombstones,
so I think I will begin with a dirge as a pendant
to his Ezra's Tomb."

I never knew what she played. The motive was
probably Irish. But as she sang it, it was terribly
pathetic. All our eyes but hers were wet when she
abruptly stopped.

Now you sing," said Mrs Fonblanque to the elder
sister, as she rose from the music-stool.

No," said the Eesident, gravely. " We have vegetated
here so long that I had completely forgotten what
the human voice could do. Neither of my girls will
open the piano again, Mrs Fonblanque, if you shut it
up. Please go on. I never knew that I was sensitive
before. That dirge of yours will haunt me when you
have gone, unless you are good enough to leave us a
brighter recollection."

Mrs Fonblanque laughed gaily, and I now began to
see why her laughter was always so musical. She
rejected the piles of new music that they brought her.
She never played from music, she said, and then she
again took her place at the piano. She rattled off a
jingling French chansonnette which made us smile,
though we could not follow the words. Then, as the
Eesident's lady was just as urgent as the Eesident
himself, she gave us a couple of pathetic Scotch
ballads, a dreamy German hymn, a nocturne, and
finished up with an impassioned rendering of Robert,
toi que j'aime! A nice revenge ! But she ignored me
altogether ; and when we pressed her to continue, she
quietly asked the Eesident when the steamer was
timed to sail.

We had forgotten the steamer completely.

Her Majesty's mails, however, cannot wait beyond
a reasonable time, even in the Persian Gulf. The
barouche was ordered out at once, and a telegram
was despatched to the town Eesidency, ordering the
steam-launch round to the point by the telegraph
offices immediately. We drank our cups of afternoon
tea standing, as the Israelites used to eat their passover.
Everybody wished to see the last of Mrs
Fonblanque, but eventually the Eesident pushed his
younger daughter into the carriage, and told us to
drive as quickly as possible. He must have been a

thoughtful and considerate man to see that, as we
three were all at sixes and sevens, we would like to
have the fourth seat filled up. The young lady, however,
laughed a little at her father's energy.

The mails can't go," she said, " till he seals his bag,
and he can't seal it till mamma has finished her home
letters ; and she had only just begun them when you
came in. We shall have to wait an hour yet." Then
she coolly told the coachman to drive to the Indoeuropean
telegraph offices.

The doctor had told me that there were only three
European firms in Bushire. But there were twenty or
thirty Europeans at least living in the handsome
telegraph offices on the seashore, half a mile or so
from the Eesidency. Many of them were gentlemen.
Some had their wives with them. Our young hostess
seemed quite at home here. She took us into the
lawn-tennis courts to wait till the steam-launch should
turn up. The men stopped playing as we could not
well join in, and did all they could to be agreeable.

Mrs Fonblanque, of course, fascinated everybody
off-hand.

The Eesident's lady," I heard her say to one particularly
obsequious attendant of about five minutes'
standing, " seems to possess a fund of inexhaustible
information."

I should think so," he replied, laughing. " Don't

you know that she is the ' Empress of the Gulf,' and
that for four hundred miles, more or less, she rules us
all with a rod of iron ? You look upon us as stranded
and isolated; but you are wrong there. We don't
often see anybody, certainly, but when the cable is not
occupied by public messages, we are free to telegraph
all the gossip we like, and this little lawn-tennis court
is the focus of all the news and gossip of four hundred
miles. Most of us in the outlying stations have never
met, but we know each other as well as you know
your fellow-passengers. We have nothing to study
but ourselves. Every case is fairly discussed here
every afternoon, and from Fao to Kurrachee the decisions
of the Eesident's lady are accepted as final."

That is a pretty state of things," said Mrs Fons
" but I had no idea that the gossip of two or
three different countries could be so easily localised.
If every three or four hundred miles of India were
subjected in the same way to the arbitration of a
social empress, I suspect there would soon be a
mutiny among the Anglo-Indian ladies."

Just then, however, the steam-launch came up
panting, and we started for the ship.

Mrs Fonblanque would not speak to me, and so, of
course, I could not speak to her. At last she spoke to
the Nun. She said we were taking a wrong course :
Captain Forbes and the Sheik and that unfortunate

acquaintance of yours said they would wait for us at
the agent's office, where they promised to have some
carpets for me to look at. Perhaps, Sister Patricia, as
you speak Persian so well, you would tell the man at
the wheel that we should like to land at the beach
before we go to the ship."

The Nun in her timid way conveyed the message to
the man at the wheel, and eventually we arrived at
the Custom-house wharf, or the mud bank that was
supposed to represent it ; and here, rather to my
astonishment, I found Captain Forbes and the Sheik.

I thought you would both be on board by this
time," I said.

I like that," replied the Captain. " We promised
to wait here for all you good people, and we shall have
to wait, goodness knows how much longer, for the
mails. They are generally a good hour after the
Residency guests."

We have got the carpets," said the Sheik. " We
left your black attendant in charge of them at the
agent's office. She appears to know something about
carpets, judging by the way she took her shoes off to
try how they felt, and looked at the patterns on the
wroncj side."

Mrs Ponblanque, however, was thoroughly put out.
She was scarcely more civil to the Sheik than she had
been to me. She went with us to the agent's office,

where there were twenty or thirty carpets strewn
about the floor. Priscilla, from the way she looked at
them, had evidently a poor opinion of the carpets.
Captain Forbes told Mrs Fonblanque to be careful in
making her selection, as much better carpets could be
had at Bunder Abbas. Mrs Fonblanque retorted by
telling Priscilla to hire a boat and have the whole lot
taken on board immediately.

The coolies with the carpets were, however, stopped
at the gateway by the agent's clerk, who quietly suggested
that they must first be paid for. Mrs Fons
glanced at him very disdainfully, and, without
saying a word, opened her purse and showed him
a letter. The effect was instantaneous. The clerk
became effusively polite.

Understand, sir," she said, " I mean to have all
the carpets, but I shall only pay a fair price for them.
My ayah, Priscilla, will fix the price, and you will
give the dealers their money, and take care that I am
not cheated. Send her after us in a boat."

Then she swept out of the office, and we followed
her to the launch.

Just as we were getting on board, I was the victim
of rather a ludicrous accident. A very tall and stately
individual, clad in white flowing robes, sedately approached
us. He had a white-and-gold turban on his
head. A venerable beard covered all but two narrow

oblique sections of an aristocratic though chocolate-coloured
face. He held out his hand to me. I
grasped it warmly. To my astonishment, the crowd
and the crew, and the Captain himself, all burst into an
immoderate fit of laughter, and even Mrs Fonblanque,
after a word with Captain Forbes, looked very much
amused.

I don't care two straws for your ribaldry," I said.
'* I don't share your anti-native feelings. If a Persian
gentleman desires to wish me God-speed, a gentleman
of obvious rank and of distinguished appearance "

Hold hard, man," cried the Captain, trying to stop
laughing. " You won't get off as cheaply as you
think. That distinguished-looking old chap is the
head beggar here, and he certainly won't be satisfied
with the honour of shaking hands with you. He is
holding out his hand again. Shake it again," and
then Captain Forbes had a relapse.

The venerable personage, who had never smiled
once, salaried to me so pathetically as I got into
the steam-launch, that I tossed him a coin, and I left
him fighting for it with all the urchins in the place.

This seemed to vastly amuse the people in the boat,
and kept them in good humour till we reached the
steamer. Mrs Fonblanque, however, never opened
her lips; and after having made a fool of myself,
mine, of course, were sealed.

My dear, dear friend," said the Nun gently, when
we were all on deck again, " it mortifies me more than
you can know to find you so silent. Am I to blame ?
I am sorry, indeed, that I came with you, and so, I
think, is Mr Hicks, the artist."

Mrs Fonblanque crossed over to the bulwark where
I was standing.

Are you as sorry as the Nun ? " she asked.

Yes," I said, " sorry and hurt. You treated me
atrociously when you said you would never speak tome
again, and you had no right to laugh as you did
just now."

That I really couldn't help," she said, half smiling.
But when I was cross I wasn't thinking of you. I
was thinking of the Nun."

And she, poor thing," I answered, " was thinking
all the time of the gallant French gentleman who
chose to abandon her so suddenly."

And you ? " said Mrs Fonblanque. " What were
you thinking of, as you tried to hold the Nun on to
the cart ? "

Of you," I answered boldly, and almost beyond
myself. " Since I met you, and you turned back, our
lives seem to have got mixed up in some inextricable
manner. I detest the way you treat me, and I think
you behaved very meanly to-day, both to the Nun and
myself. But your eyes haunt me by day and by night.

When I try to paint, I can paint nothing but your face.
I shall end, whether I wish it or not, or whether I
know it or not, by hating you intensely — or loving you !"

Hush, hush, Mr Hicks ! " she replied softly. "Don't
talk so wildly. Priscilla will hear you, and here she is
with her big bales of carpets."

Then she again crossed the quarter-deck, and as no
one but Priscilla and I were looking on, she took the
Nun's two hands in hers and kissed her affectionately.

Captain Forbes came up just then, and Mrs Fons
turned round at once.

Where is the gentleman of too many experiences?"
she inquired.

Oh," said the Captain, rubbing his hands, " I think
I have got rid of him. He went to the agent's and sat
himself clown as if he were a lord. They gave him a
bottle of whisky, but by the time he had finished his
bottle, I came in, and they didn't offer him another.
He pulled himself together at the sight of me, and
said he would like to brush his hair. ' Only let me
brush my hair,' he said, ' and I shall be as right as a
trivet. That's the only penalty I pay to the bottle;
but I can brush away the effects of the heaviest
king-bout in five minutes.' Then he disappeared,
and when I heard of him last, he was lying clown in
one of the liquor-shops in the bazaar, where, I suppose,
there were no hair-brushes."

"And you left him there ! " cried the Nun.

Most deliberately," answered the Captain. " I
never meant him to set foot in my ship again. He
disgraced himself when he was here, and he has not
even taken the trouble to pay for his passage. Here,
Quartermaster, keep that boat by us till the steward
has bundled all the passenger's traps on board of her."

CHAPTER XXL

By the time we had finished dinner, the steamer was
going at the unusually rapid speed of nine knots an
hour. There was no moon, and the night would have
been intensely dark but for the stars. I had never
seen them so brilliant before. They were pointing
mysteriously upwards and downwards with their
slender golden fingers. The evening star — Venus I
think it was — threw a broad belt of light across the
Gulf, much as the moon does in our mistier atmosphere,
and we could see, as they crossed it, the huge
brown sails of the Arab shows or bungalow. Had it
not been for this tremulous and glittering streak, the
sea at a little distance was as black as jet. Found the
steamer, however, as she ploughed her way forward,
the rushing waters were literally alive with phosphorescent
fire, and her tall black hull stood boldly out
like the phantom-ships of which, as an adventurous
schoolboy, I had been always dreaming. Beyond this
immediate halo of firelight foam, the waves were now

and again lit up with faint and unexpected flashes of
blue and violet, which occasionally aroused some great
fish from his slumbers, and sent him rushing through
the sea in a thin line of livid light into the region of
outer darkness. The housekeepers on board had just
commenced the drowsy songs with which their unfortunate
horses were to be kept on their legs all
night long. We could hear from afar the jests and
disputes of the pilgrims, and the monotonous ditties
they intoned to the slow music of the tar.

Suddenly there was a most ear-rending and awful
shriek.

What was that ? " cried Mrs Fonblanque, clutching
my arm.

"Oh, that's nothing," said the Captain, who happened
to be passing. " They are * bishoping ' a horse —
that's all. They ' bishop ' all the aged horses on the
voyage down. They cut away the surface of the incisor
teeth with a dentist's rose-head hand-drill, and
then give them the marks of a young horse. But
they've no right to disturb my first-class passengers
at night. I'll give them a bit of my mind."

And so he did ; and for a short time it seemed as if
everybody on board the ship had gone to sleep. We
could hear nothing but the throbbing of the engines.
Mrs Fonblanque and I once more appeared to be alone.
I was glad of the silence, for I was in the very mood

to enjoy a new experience like this, and I did my best
to make Mrs Fonblanque enjoy it too. But she
allowed me to do most of the talking.

Watch that fish ! " I cried, as one of the many
startled monsters of the deep drew a bright line as
straight as if it had been ruled over the dark sea.
He goes like a rocket. You can almost hear him
hiss. The night is beautiful above us, and beautiful
below. Look at that Ions? foaming streak of lisjht we
leave behind us in our wake, and the great lumps of
light that go plunging through the water from the
steamer's discharge-pipe."

Oh," said Mrs Fonblanque shortly, " it is all
very interesting, no doubt ; but I am rather tired of
phosphorus, and meteorology, and geography, and physical
geography, and sea-scapes and ocean effects, and of
having you posing as Nature's showman at my elbow
every moment, Mr Hicks. You forget that I saw all
that there is to be seen when I came up the Gulf.
There is nothing like human nature. So Sam Slick
used to say. I must say that I agree with Sam
Slick, and I really cannot feel the slightest enthusiasm
in the insect-life that lights up the sea to-night.
Talk about men and women. Talk about me, and
if you can't talk about me, why, talk about yourself
; or if you can't talk about yourself, do please be
silent."

That's very much what you said to me a short
time back."

Is it ? " she answered. " But doesn't it seem a
very, very long time since ? "

This was rather too hard on me. Could I talk about
myself ? I really thought I could.

So when Mrs Fonblanque, politely stifling a yawn,
asked me to call the Sheik up to continue his English
reminiscences, I told her somewhat disingenuously
that the Sheik was indisposed, and that if she pleased
I would give her my own experiences instead.

"Well, you may try," said Mrs Fonblanque, doubtfully
; u but I don't fancy that you can be quite so
original as the Sheik is, and you mustn't mind my
going early to bed."

Here the Nun, to my dismay, appeared on the
scene, and, at a quiet signal from Mrs Fonblanque, I
assisted her to a chair.

Xow that we had a " gallery," I thought it would
be impossible to talk as frankly as I should have liked.
But with her very first words Mrs Fonblanque put me
on my metal.

You were born," she began deliberately, " in the
year eighteen hundred — and what ? and your mother
thought you the very finest baby "

c: Xo," said I. " My mother, poor soul, died when I
was born. My life began at nine years old, in a little

hut or hollow mound that we had built just for our
two selves out of the grass lying drying in the meadow
by the river. It was long after tea-time ; but I cared
nothing for the scolding I knew I should get later on.
The farming men and girls were singing blithely as
they went home, with their scythes and rakes over
their shoulders, across the stepping-stones in the river.
The doorway into our little grass-house would have
been just big enough to show Edith and myself the
broad sun as he sank slowly and reluctantly in a gorgeous
crimson glory behind the ridge of pale green
larches in the park, only, as it happened, Edith was
fast asleep."

Go on," said Mrs Fonblanque. " I shall be asleep
myself directly."

I saw, however, that the Nun was listening. I was
myself honestly interested in my story. So I continued
: " She was eight and I was nine. We had
been hay-making all the afternoon, and perhaps a
little too boisterously. Now, however, Edith was
sound asleep, with one small white arm across her
eyes. I watched her as she lay there, on a heap of
fragrant grass. The interior of that little grass hut,
with little Edith in it, is the picture that has cast its
colours and its shadows over my whole life. I can
see it now as I saw it then. I remember wondering
in a vague and dreamy way what subtle and extraordinary

changes were coming over me, when the farming
girls on the farther side of the stepping-stones
suddenly stopped singing. I began to live then, Mrs
Fonblanque, for it was then I began to love."

Oh, Mr Hicks ! " said the Nun, and then she stopped
short.

You will frighten him, dear," said Mrs Fonblanque,
half aside. " Let me manage him, please. You were
nine and she was "

Eight," I answered. " But I don't think that you
or Sister Patricia, or anybody else grown up, can quite
realise the lasting influence of childish affections."

"There I agree with you," cried Mrs Fonblanque.
I don't think you at all foolish in what you say about
the strength of childish memories. I, too, have recollections,
but I like yours. Papa, poor man, used to
tell me that I had been a flirt ever since I could hold
a fan over my face."

I meant a different set of affections altogether," I
replied. " She was eight and I was nine. She was
eighteen and I was nineteen when we parted."

Oh, but you mustn't skip like that," said Mrs Fons
" What happened in the interval ? "

"Please tell us everything from the beginning,
Mr Hicks," exclaimed the Nun, very timidly. " I
like to hear you talk like this. Girls, when they
are young, are, I fancy, much the same as boys, and I

vol. I. Q

really should like to hear your true feelings as a
boy."

Begin at the beginning, sir, since Sister Patricia
desires it," said Mrs Fonblanque. " Begin at the beginning
as the Sheik did."

1 have begun at the beginning," I replied. " There
is only one thing I distinctly remember before this,
outside of my nursery reminiscences."

And that ? " they both exclaimed.

"I had been away for a long time, somewhere on
an island, I think, and I brought home a big white
china dog as a present for my father. I don't remember
buying the dog, or why I chose it, but I
clearly remember carrying it into my father's study
when he was hard at work, and I remember him getting
up and patting me on the head, and placing it ina
conspicuous place among the art treasures that
crowded his little book-surrounded sanctum. I was
about five then, and this dog of mine seemed to give
me a kind of proprietary right in my father's study
ever afterwards."

And what did your father give you in return ? "
asked Mrs Fonblanque.

A funnel and a trumpet, elaborately carved with
sharp shells out of ironwork, which an old seafaring
friend had brought him from the Sandwich Islands
when they were still unknown. I used to work away

with my pocket-knife for months after I got my funnel
and my trumpet ; but my attempts gave me, I am
sorry to say, an exceedingly high opinion of art in the
South Seas."

I really have no patience with you," cried Mrs
Fonblanque ; " you seem to have no individuality, no
trust in yourself, no faith in your own art."

"Oh, don't," said the Nun.

I was only five," I continued ; " but I daresay you
are right, Mrs Fonblanque, and I have often been discouraged
since then. I used, however, just then to
shut my clasp-knife up in despair and dream of the
hideous beasts on my funnel, and of the cannibals who
had carved them. You cannot imagine what an intense
and fearful pleasure I took in those weird childish
fancies, or how they followed me up the dark passages
and creaking staircases every evening, or how much
they told me of unknown islands, all surrounded by
unapproachable foaming reefs, and all covered by
thick groves of cocoa-nut trees with their nuts full
of milk."

Xo ; I can't imagine all that. But I beg your
pardon — I forgot that you were only five years old.
Your uncle, if he is fond of you, must be fond of
curiosities. What did he say to the unwarrantable
appearance of a trumpery china dog in the very middle
of your father's choice collection of works of art ? "

"He said that tiny father must be in his dotage;
but he wasn't — not a bit of it. When I saw my
father last, three years ago, I said, ' I see the old dog
is still there, sir, in his old place.' ' Yes, my boy, and
there it will remain,' he answered. c It annoys your
uncle, who is always getting presents himself, to think
that I ever had a present from anybody too small to
expect something much handsomer in return. I shall
leave him that china dog when I die, and I only wish
I could be here to see him receive it. Wait till he hasa
boy of his own, and he won't be quite so cynical.' "

"That's rather a nice reminiscence after all," said
Mrs Fonblanque, sighing faintly. " I thought I liked
your uncle, but I don't much care for cynical old men.
What do you say, dear ? "

The Nun shook her head, as if young men and old,
cynical and cheerful, were all equally absent from her
thoughts. Mrs Fonblanque took her hand.

Sister Patricia is right," she said ; " we would both
of us rather hear more about little Edith."

I could talk for ever about her," I cried, warmly.

At the time of the haystack episode she was eight,
and you were nine "

Not quite nine," I answered. " She was eighteen,
and I "

Oh, stop, stop ! What did you do in the interval ?
A boy of your precocity must have had many interesting

experiences besides that china dog before you
were nearly nineteen."

For those ten years," I answered hotly, " I thought
of nothing but Edith."

But surely you went to school," said Mrs Fons
" She couldn't well go with you. "What did
you do there ? "

Nothing much," I replied. " I went to school, of
course, but with a little talisman round my neck like
the knights of old, of whom we used to read about
together in my father's study in an illuminated copy
of Froissart's ' Chronicles.' It was a crushed little
spray of honeysuckle which she had given me after
we had paid a farewell visit to all our pets in the
park. I put it under the glass cover of an old forgotten
miniature, and I always wore it. The boys in
the dormitory used to tease me about my talisman,
and when we were bathing one day a big hulking
bully seized hold of it and trod it into fragments
under his boots. I got two bad black eyes in the
struggle, but the boys thought none the worse of me
for showing fight. I had lost my talisman but as long
as I was at school, I always felt that talisman round
my neck, and I think it did me good then. Just
now, Sister Patricia, you said that boys and girls
are much the same, and I suppose their schools are
much alike."

I don't know," said the Nun, shyly. " I was never
at school myself. But did you tell Edith about that
tight with the big boy over his talisman ? "

No, indeed," I answered. " I couldn't well mention
my black eyes. And then, somehow or other, as
we grew older, we both grew shyer. Long ago, shortly
after what Mrs Fonblanque not very kindly called
the haystack episode,' she lost one of her stockings
and both of her shoes in wading over a stream I
wanted her to cross, and I had to carry her home,
and she kissed me heartily for it when they sent her
to bed in disgrace. But everything was changed
when I came back from school. She was altered,
or I was."

Well," said Mrs Fonblanque, " give the young
lady the benefit of the doubt."

"Xo, I shan't," I answered. "There was no doubt.
And if she was changed, it was only for the better ;
and I was always much shyer really than Edith."

She was eight and you were nine ? "

She wasn't always eight, and I wasn't always
nine, Mrs Fonblanque. We grew older, and things
changed. I remember hating having to kiss her on
my last Christmas holidays, when all the old people
were kissing each other under the mistletoe in the
hall. She hid behind the armour on one side of the
big staircase, and I hid on the other."

But you both went under the mistletoe at last ? "
said the Nun.

"Well, yes, they made us go. But it was a sad
mistake. I was shyer than ever after that ; and yet
the less she seemed to like me, the more I loved her."

Then why did you say good-bye to her when you
were nineteen ? " asked Mrs Fonblanque.

I never quite knew," I answered. " But I suppose
that my financial difficulties were somehow or
other at the bottom of it. When I left school, my
uncle wanted to put me into his Liverpool office.
But I insisted upon going to London to be an author,
or an artist, or anything else you please, so as to be
able to live at Putney, where Edith was still at school,
and where I could catch a glimpse, once a-week, of
her through the curious old oak carving of the secluded
school-pew on the left-hand side of the altar, in the
old parish church. Then her father came into an
immense fortune, and she was a great heiress. She
left Putney suddenly. . But one of the school servants
brought a little pencil note to my lodgings to say that
she was going. We said our last good-bye at the
Putney railway station."

That was surely very, very cruel of her," said the
Nun.

11 Xo, no, it wasn't," I answered. " She was crying,
not cruel."

Go on," said Mrs Fonblanque, stiffly.

Directly the governess left, she put her head out
of the railway carriage and said, 'Not good-bye,
Hector; don't say good-bye.' But the train was
starting, and I said good-bye as bravely as I could.
She was an heiress then, and I had not even a trade,
and I knew that my father had spent every penny of
his own money and my mother's on his collections.
I never saw her again till she was married, and that
was how I took to painting, Mrs Fonblanque, and
why I have never yet made much out of it."

Don't be savage, Mr Hicks," said Mrs Fonblanque,
very gently. " I really begin to like your reminiscences
better than the Sheik's, now that Edith has
gone out of them. Did you ever see her again ? "

Yes," I replied. " At first I was always trying to
see her. I used to haunt the theatres, when I knew
she was in town, and hang about the park and the
picture-galleries, and when I saw anybody like her,
I went home in a fever. Face to face I always knew
her, of course. But she had a pretty, proud little
way of holding her head up, which, when I was
behind other women, often deceived me."

Poor dear Mr Hicks ! " said Mrs Fonblanque in a
low aside that was evidently divided between the
Nun and myself. "That kind of feeling is as
common as the measles, and much more frequent.

I have often had it, and, Sister Patricia, you must
have had it too. But we couldn't either of us haunt
the parks and theatres and public places, so as to
grow hot and cold, as Mr Hicks did, at the back view
of anybody's head in a hat. "We had to sit at home,
my dear, hadn't we, and stitch our fingers off in fancy-work
as we waited for a knock at the front door that
we knew perfectly well would never come again ? "

Madam," cried the Nun rapidly, with her cheeks
on fire, "your experiences are too many for me. I
never did anything of the kind. I thought Mr
Hicks's story a nice one, because he frankly told us
his feelings as a child. It is long since I was a child,
and it was a pleasant reminiscence."

Yes, dear, it was," replied Mrs Fonblanque. " I
only meant to say that Mr Hicks has not a monopoly
of all reminiscences. He would monopolise everything
if you let him. Forgive me, Mr Hicks. The
Xun, I see, has forgiven me. What did you do
next ? "

I managed to live on somehow," I said, gruffly.

"And what did your uncle say about her marriage
? " asked Mrs Fonblanque.

He said nothing about her marriage. But he said
I was a tremendous young fool for saying good-bye to
her at the Putney railway station because she was
an heiress and I was a pauper. I had never before

seen him in such a vile temper. He asked me why I
had not gone into his Liverpool office instead of trying
to dabble in two of the most beggarly trades there are,
and why the dickens or something worse I had not
been man enough to write to him before I said goodbye
to Edith in heroics, like a play-actor. Then he
told me to go to the devil, and paint portraits of her
husband."

I begin to understand your uncle now," said Mrs
Fonblanque. " I always liked him. He is not really
cynical. He loved your mother long before your
father did. He thought you loved Edith in the same
way. He meant to make your fortune in his Liverpool
office, and you were conceited and silly enough to
spoil all his plans."

I almost think you are right, Mrs Eonblanque," I
answered. " He hates the career I have adopted ; but
he has been wonderfully good to me ever since."

He is like the rest of us," she said. " We are all
of us far too good to you. Sister Patricia is looking at
you as if you had been a martyr, instead of having
been most miserably weak. But still, if you began
life like this, you must have reminiscences enough to
last the voyage out. Next time Sister Patricia and I
have you up to tell us your story, I promise to accompany
the touching tale of your early loves with my
guitar or my banjo — which ? "

I was going to answer Mrs Fonblanque rather
roughly, but something in Sister Patricia's eloquent,
soft brown eyes stopped me, and I contented myself
by saying — "You really have no right to be so excessively
disagreeable. I talked at first simply to amuse
you. I forgot myself, and became natural."

"Well, well," said Mrs Fonblanque, "don't be
cross. I'll keep the banjo for the old Sheik's arras


"Thank you, madam," said the Sheik, who had just
come aft with Captain Forbes to see why the lights on
the quarter-deck were not out yet. "Thank you," and
his voice was lower and deeper than ever. " What is
a banjo, and what is a tarradiddle ? "

Good night," retorted Mrs Fonblanque, imperturbable
to the last. " Good night. I believe that Mr
Hicks and you have some deep-laid plot against me,
and come to each other's aid whenever either of you
are getting the worst of it. Stop now, Sheik ! Do
you mean to tell me for a moment that Mr Hicks has
only one reminiscence, while you have Fatima and
Zuleika and Your Mahal, and all the rest of them ? "

I meant nothing of the kind," I cried. " I am not
fool enough to think that the world does not spin
round as freely now as before, simply because I could
not look as honestly as I used to look into the eyes of
the particular girl who loved me and left me."

Then you have other reminiscences ? " she inquired
quickly.

Of course I have," I answered. " The world spins
round, and we all, whether men or women, specks on
it as we are, must spin round too, until we drop off
for good and all."

Then, as we all rose, I tried to take a tardy revenge.
Staircase wit," I think the Americans call this Tar-than
method of saying as you go what you ought to
have said at once. Mrs Fonblanque, however, as she
listened, seemed to be really sorry for the way in which
she had treated me.

No, thank you," she said, in reply to my remarks.
My reminiscences ? ISTo, thank you. A woman
never has any. Isn't that so, Sister Patricia ? "

And then they went together slowly, arm in arm,
towards the companion.

CHAPTER XXII.

Here I must begin, somewhat reluctantly, I own, by
pulling myself together." Mrs Fonblanque had told
me rather more candidly than I altogether liked that
she was tired of geography and physical geography,
and of hearing me talk as if the Persian Gulf, with all
its ports and islands, was a peep-show, of which I had
constituted myself the showman. I am still convinced
that her sound common-sense and her almost
invariable good taste were for once at fault here.
That is one side of the question — the personal side.
On the other hand, she was certainly a type, and a
type of a large number of people, too. I had never
been in the Persian Gulf before, and I knew so well
the sorry value my uncle attached to my pet theory
of the influence of sudden transitions that I half
began to suspect, from what Mrs Fonblanque had
said, that I might have been rather overdoing it.
The world is, after all, very much the same all over ;
and probably those lazy Arab herdsmen who leant so

picturesquely on their tall spears, as we watched them
in the deep recesses of the palm groves below Bus-sarah,
were thinking, every man of them, over the
same problem as Hodge in his blouse at home — how
to find food enough for the children swarming round
their wigwams, and for those who would inevitably
come.

M. Xavier de Maistre wrote that charming book of
travels, his ' Voyage autour de ma Chambre,' brimful of
humanity, or of men and women, as Mrs Fonblanque
termed it, without ever taking the trouble to look out
of his bedroom window. You remember what he said
of the big arm-chair in his study ? And what he said
about his old bed in the corner ? We are born there,
we die there, and there we-spend our happiest moments.
It is a cradle, a tomb, a throne. There is a
good deal of humanity condensed in that one sentence;
and his simple mode of travel is not only easy and
very comfortable, but has the additional advantage of
costing nothing. My little house-boat off Meclenham
was probably more luxuriously furnished than the
chamber of M. Xavier de Maistre. It had, too, a
wonderful look-out, and, 1 should imagine, far greater
possibilities of a charming book about it than M.
Xavier de Maistre ever possessed. Why, then, had I
been fool enough to cut my moorings adrift, and rush
round the world in this breathless manner, to be

snubbed at every turning ? Judging from Mrs Fons
opinion of me just then, I had, perhaps,
travelled a little too fast.

A few years back I used to frequent the police
courts, with a view, as I honestly believed, of drawing-character
sketches. One day a little urchin was
dragged into the Thames police court by an enormous
policeman. "A stowaway, your worship," said the
policeman, making the boy hold his head up over the
dock. " He was found in the 'tween decks of a
steamer for Yokohama, and said he wanted to see the
world." " You are a fool, little boy," said the magistrate,
adjusting his spectacles — and he was a shrewd,
sensible, kindly man, like most stipendiary magistrates
of any standing. " If you want to see the world, little
boy, stop in London, and black boots, or sell newspapers.
Any London street has more of the world in
it than you will find in many thousand miles of travel
on the deck of an ocean-steamer. Take the little boy
away, policeman, and let him go. Now ask that
rather over-dressed young woman to be good enough
to take his place." The rather over-dressed young
woman's experiences showed, I am sorry to say, that
the worthy magistrate's advice to the little boy had
been perfectly sound.

Even the slight humour of this half-forgotten episode
scarcely reconciles me to the sacrifice I am making.

I should dearly love to describe the wonderful
bank of grey-black hills behind the low coast-line of
Persia, as they shone out, when the sun was full upon
them, in every shade of purple, pink, and red. I
should like to say something of the towering peaks,
covered here and there with snow, of Gisakhan Bluff
and. Kuh Kliormaj, of Jabal Turunjah, Jabal Ginao,
Jabal Bis, and of the narrow passes in the dismal hills
through which the long caravans crawl slowly, like
huge black serpents, into the upland plains, and then
make for Teheran, Shiraz, and Yezd. I should like to
describe the ever-varying charms of a zigzag voyage,
in which you continually cross from shore to shore.
Now you are in Arabia, where the men, rich or poor,
have the manners and the carriage of Nature's gentlemen.
Now you are in Persia, where every one, no
matter how he may be attired, seems somehow or other
to bear the stigma of slave and sycophant impressed
upon his forehead, like a birth-mark. You cross
quickly from shore to shore, and change is always
pleasant. Still Mrs Fonblanque was probably right.
My business just now is with men and women — with
myself, that is, primarily, and then with others something
like me. I tear up my elaborate note-books,
sketches and all, and anybody who wants a full, true,
and particular account of a voyage down the Persian
Gulf must go elsewhere.

Carpets ! Yes, carpets. That should interest all
who have money enough to buy what I am writing,
and for this portion of humanity I have naturally the
keenest and warmest regard. Mrs Fonblanque pretended
that she did not care two straws whether her
carpets were good or bad; but she was sufficiently
artistic to be something of an amateur. Long before
we came to Bahrein, she had her carpets laid out on
the quarter-deck, with the Sheik, and, incidentally,
the skipper and myself, told off as critics. Neither he
nor I knew any more of Persian carpets than we knew
of the carpets of Brussels or Kidderminster or the
Tottenham Court Road. But we respected a lady
who was able to buy her carpets by the mile. The
Sheik, however, was evidently wide awake here,
though he chose to distrust his own judgment at
first.

Wait till I find you an expert," he said, " before
you make up your mind that you can, if you like it,
realise cent per cent on your carpets. There's a man
down below among the pilgrims who knows everything
that can be known about Persian carpets."

This individual was a disagreeable-looking fellow,
and not otherwise interesting or aesthetic ; but he went
straight to the point, and the Sheik good-naturedly
translated all he said. There are, it seems, three kinds
of carpets — kale, naiad, and selim. Mrs Fonblanque's

VOL. I. R

carpets were all meant to belong to the first class. A
few were worth what she had paid, but none of them,
in spite of their stains, were really old. The naiads,
which he himself admired as much as any, were never
exported. They were not woven, but made of felt,
hammered out in a paste, and were very large and
very cheap. What else should Mrs Fonblanque buy ?
He recommended Kerman shawls ; tiles and bricks with
hunting scenes on them ; stray bits of old mosaic from
the mosques of Ispahan and Shiraz; embroidery in
gold and silver ; bowls and plaques of Cashier ware ;
Khorassan blades and fine chain-armour, cunningly inlaid
with gold.

It sounds like Keats," I said. " One could easily
turn the man's catalogue into verse."

That would be easier, perhaps," remarked the Captain,
" than adding it up in rupees."

The expert, however, went on with his list. Blue
and green tiles, if they were really a thousand years
old, commanded fabulous prices. The fluted milk-white
porcelain was dear and rare. Beautiful manuscripts
of the Koran and the poets were to be had
sometimes ; but the lady would be cheated if she did
not employ a broker. He had given up business himself,
but would be happy to act for her. Mrs Fons
whose faith in human nature never appeared
to be very strong, smiled at this. But as she smiled

she turned towards the Sheik ; so did we. We had
been empanelled as a jury of critics, and had not been
asked for a verdict.

The Sheik took the expert's robe in his hand and
pulled him gently aside. A few low and earnest
words were interchanged. Then the man salaried
most humbly, and the Sheik came back to us to say
that the expert might be thoroughly trusted.

The Sheik's arrangement saved Mrs Fonblanque a
great deal of trouble, no doubt, but it must later on
have cost her much money. Whenever we were about
to drop anchor anywhere, the Sheik's friend used to
come up to her for instructions, and for some hours
afterwards he was always busily engaged in marshalling
heavily-laden porters down to the saloon, in
which Priscilla and he, friends at last, continued to
fill one vacant cabin after another with the oddest collection
of things you can possibly imagine. I made
from time to time a few small purchases on my own
account. Mrs Fonblanque laughed at these. "You
ought to see mine," she said. "But I don't think
that dreadful Priscilla will let you see them." And
Mrs Fonblanque was quite right.

I have, however, promised to sacrifice my note-books
and myself. The first sacrifice was happily not so
painful as it might have been, for during the next
six-and-thirty hours the Sheik occupied the greater

part of the time in continuing his English experiences
to Mrs Fonblanque and the Nun, the latter of whom
was, I thought, rather more obsequious to Mrs Fons
than seemed altogether warranted by the
way in which she had been treated. They appeared
to be amused by what the Sheik said ; but I had had
enough of Mrs Fonblanque and the Sheik just then,
and I busied myself by painting a portrait for Polly
and the bairns of our worthy Quartermaster, whose
well-lined, weather-beaten, kindly old face had something
very tempting about it to an artist.

"Why are you painting the Quartermaster?" asked
Mrs Fonblanque over dinner next evening.

He interests me," I answered. " I like painting
people who interest me."

Do you hear that, Captain Forbes ? " cried Mrs
Fonblanque, trying to drag an entirely innocent person
into a duel that should, like all duels, have been confined
to the two principals. " Mr Hicks only paints
portraits of people who interest him. Three or four
days ago he declined to paint me "

I thought it was you who refused to let me paint
you," I replied. "Anyhow, there is not much in
common between you and the Quartermaster. He
is transparent. He requires no preliminary study.
He interests me. He is amusing and intensely
humorous, never flippant, and always natural. He

talks when I want him to talk, and he knows when I
wish him to be silent. I have had a most refreshing
day. I feel as if I had taken a dip in the sea. He
has actually given me an appetite."

That is a good thing," said Mrs Fonblanque.
"But there is no accounting for taste. Priscilla
shares your interest in the Quartermaster. They
were always gossiping together until you beguiled
him away from her this morning. You saved me
the trouble of asking her to be good enough to let
the unfortunate man alone, so as to be able to attend
to her duties. I suppose he was still harping away
on Polly and her bairns ? "

No," I said, and then I stopped. Mrs Fons
words threw a new light on the Quartermaster's
conversation. He had favoured me, as I
painted him, with his experiences of womankind in
general, Polly, of course, excepted. I had begun to
think him a misogynist. Some of his parables
having been rather too crude and tough for me, I
had ended by taking him for a bore. That was
distinctly wrong. I should never have allowed a
Quartermaster to bore me. So I devoted myself
sedulously to a very badly cooked dinner, just to
try and recall what he had said. What had Priscilla
told him about Mrs Fonblanque ? What had he told
me ? I gave it up.

It was all Mrs Fonblanque's fault for posing as a
mystery. I scrutinised her closely as she frowned
gently over the menu. I was scarcely in a charitable
frame of mind. But she was just as unlike the
Sphinx as any well-dressed woman could be.

"I wonder," I said slowly, trying to hark back on
the scent — " I wonder that you allow your maid to be
always gossiping with one of the sailors. Native
women are apt to be indiscreet, and sailors are always
talkative."

Mrs Fonblanque laughed serenely, and I did not
get much out of this little manoeuvre except a fit of
depression that kept me apart from the rest as if I
had been a pariah, and made me decline an invitation
to accompany them ashore next morning.

I don't care about seeing Bahrein," I said (we
had dropped anchor off Bahrein during the night).
Any one of these places is just like another, and in
future, when we stop anywhere, I shall devote myself
religiously to the ' Arabian Nights.' "

"Do," said Mrs Fonblanque. "It is a charming
book. It is the only book I thought anything of
when I was seven."

Well," I added, " that may perhaps be taken as an
argument that your taste has not improved much since
then. At all events, I mean to study the East now
that I am here, and the ' Arabian Nights ' seems to mea

pleasant and a safer guide than any of the odours
of these unsavoury bazaars."

So Captain Forbes went ashore by himself. We
watched him through our glasses. He was met about
a hundred and fifty yards from the beach by an enormous
donkey, which he mounted from the gunnels of
his gig.

"Sister Patricia," said Mrs Fonblanque, "I should
like a ride. Wouldn't you ? Those donkeys are fine
big beasts. See how Captain Forbes is galloping over
the sands ! Let us go by ourselves for a scamper."

I should like a scamper," answered the Nun. " But
is it safe ? "

"Oh, never mind that, dear. Mr Hicks would
come, of course, if he thought it wasn't."

I turned on my heel. I gave each of them by turn
a look of perfect indifference, as I went down below
to unpack my copy of the ' Arabian Nights.' By the
time I returned, the two ladies were sitting in a broad-bottomed
boat manned by a crew of grinning negroes
shrieking and gesticulating like fiends. The Nun
looked very frightened. She gave me an imploring
glance as Mrs Fonblanque motioned to them to push
off. I had just time to jump in.

"We were only waiting for you," explained Mrs
Fonblanque, amicably making room for me on a pile
of rugs and wraps between her and the Nun.

I said I wasn't coming."

Oh yes, you said so, I know ; and Sister Patricia
said you wouldn't come, too. But I knew better. I
had not the slightest intention of letting you off. You
can't think that I was such a goose as to dream of going
without a man. Come now, Mr Hicks. You are
thoroughly beaten ; own it, and now do all you canto
make yourself agreeable to two unprotected females."

I was not exactly in the humour to be agreeable,
and I did not care to try. But I had a stick in my
hands, and I kept the negro boatmen in order until
we came alongside of three big donkeys standing in
the water.

When I saw the donkeys, I recovered my temper.
Now, ladies," I said, " you want a ride. Give me the
pleasure of assisting you to mount."

"We mean to ride," said Mrs Fonblanque severely,
but we want side-saddles, if you please, Mr Hicks."

Don't blame me," I cried. " You can't say that I
dragged you here."

I think we had far better go back," said the 'Nun.

"Just then the Sheik rode up on a huge white
donkey. He had been away on some business of his
own since daybreak.

"Why are you coming on shore ?" he asked, hurriedly.
Go back ! go back at once ! The people are swarming
down to the beach. They have never seen European

ladies before, and you have not even got your veils on.
Take them back ! Take them back, Mr Hicks ! What
could have induced you to bring them ? "

The Sheik had a very pretty vein of humour. I
contented myself by smiling grimly. But Mrs Fons
cried, " I'd like to see Mr Hicks take us back !
We mean to have a scamper on the sands, Sheik, and
neither Mr Hicks nor you will stop us. You can tell
Fatima, and Zuleika, and Nour Mahal all about our
wilfulness next time you write."

Oh," said the Sheik, as he held his feet carefully
out of the water, "Fatigue, and Zuleika, and Nour
Mahal would have the better of you here. They
wouldn't want side-saddles. You remember what I
told you about my astonishment at the ladies who
rode so airily in the park."

"I remember nothing," replied Mrs Fonblanque.
But I mean to go, side-saddles or no side-saddles."

In that case," said the Sheik, " you will find them
quite as much side-saddles as anything else. It
depends how you sit. If you insist on going, sit as
you like, take plenty of wraps, and follow me, and I
will try and turn the crowd."

It spite of the surf that kept our boat bobbing up
and down, we managed, with the help of many rugs,
to seat the ladies on their saddles at last ; and so long
as their donkeys were led by the mane through the

water, all went well. But once on dry land, we found
that our donkeys had no bridles. The crowd shouted
and yelled. The donkey-boys hit out behind. The
donkeys tore on madly through the town.

Before long we discovered, however, that there was
a big semicircular wooden handle in front of each
saddle, and we all instinctively clung on to that.

Ho ! ho ! " cried the Sheik, when we caught him
up ; " who taught you the trick ? That's it. Pull first
to one side of the handle, then to the other, just as you
want to go. That's the Bahrein bit."

Mr Hicks," said Mrs Fonblanque aside to me, as
our panting donkeys began at last to walk, "I hope
your sensitive feelings are properly avenged. It must
delight you immensely to have mounted two helpless
women on two fiendish beasts like these, and to have
started them off without bridles, or even decent
saddles, on a tearing race through Arabia. We
should have been killed or lost if the Sheik had not
wheeled round and stopped us. As it is, Sister
Patricia says she must faint."

I thought so then," exclaimed the Nun timidly,
and I couldn't help thinking so. Every time the
boy thumped the donkey, the donkey almost grazed
the corner of a wall or a house ; and how frightened
the people in the bazaar were ! It is dreadful to find
suddenly that you are riding a race through a crowd,

and that your groom has forgotten to have the bridle
put on. One feels like Mazeppa."

So one does, clear' answered Mrs Fonblanque ;
like Mazeppa without being tied on. But what are
we to do, now that our donkeys are so amiable as to
stand at ease while we discuss the question ? "

I have often been here before, Madam Fonblanque,"
observed the Sheik. " There is really only one thing
to do in Bahrein, when you are lucky enough to get
out of it ; that is — to go to the wells and taste the
water."

A pretty amusement, thought I to myself, as I
imagined what my uncle would have said about this
queer idea of a day's outing.

But still the reservoir and the domed aqueducts,
dating back to the days of Portuguese glory in the
East, were worth looking at. I made a rough sketch
of them and the grass-covered mosque close by, while
the others professed to taste the water, which they
pronounced to be sweet and warm,

Bahrein is a big island, seventy or eighty miles
round, and so close to the Arabian coast that all the
water, which bubbles up wherever a well is dug, comes
straight from the hills on the mainland.

Yes," said the Sheik, when I addressed him on the
subject, " fresh water bubbles up everywhere, even at
the bottom of the sea. Many of the ships and shows

here— and the bay is always full of quaint outlandish
craft — are watered by simply sending down pearl-divers
with cassocks in their hands. They find a
bubbling spring at the depth of two or three fathoms.
They fill their cassocks, tie the necks up, come to the
surface again, and there you are."

But surely the water is salt," I suggested.

No," replied the Sheik ; " it is said to be excessively
sweet, like the water here."

I don't think you tasted it."

Certainly not," he answered, slowly. " I am a
sherbet-drinker myself. I like my water boiled, with
something in it. But to the vegetable world water is
a great boon. Bahrein could be made into a fertile
garden in six months. There is water everywhere.
If the people chose, they could convert their island
into a perfect paradise. And Bahrein, even as we see
it, is the only green oasis in the Persian Gulf. Scratch
the ground anywhere, and you get water ; put in a few
cuttings, and you get a stately grove of palm-trees."

Happy, happy people ! " said Mrs Fonblanque,
checking her donkey severely, as he tried very adroitly
to deposit her in one of the smaller pools.

Well, I don't know that," replied the Sheik, gravely.
Fatima would like them, for nowhere else are the
women so religiously and carefully veiled. There is
nothing coquettish about the women here. Their blue

veils are simply impenetrable. But this is a veneer.
They all of them, men and women too, have a strain
of fiery blood from the pirate coast ; and that, I fancy,
makes them rather restless and unsettled. Whenever
I come to Bahrein, I look upon the people here as
what you call at home ' a bad lot.' They were worse
than ever this morning, and I really cannot think how
we are to get you two ladies back again to the ship.
Why did you bring them here, Mr Hicks ? "

It is very pleasant here," I answered. " The
country, as you say, is green and fertile. Water
bubbles up everywhere. I have my sketch-book. Let
us rest awhile. If the pirate spirit becomes too
obvious, we will ask Mrs Fonblanque to exorcise it ;
and in the meantime, I would suggest that she should
dismount from her donkey before he has her in the
water."

"Oh," said Mrs Fonblanque, after another frantic
struggle, " what a dreadfully vindictive man you are !
Xow I have mastered him. And now, Mr Hicks, I
may remind you that I didn't come ashore to drinkwater
or take a bath. I want a ride, and here goes."

We heard the flick of the stick that the donkey boy
had just cut for her from the thicket, and then she
disappeared behind the rising ground in front.

Inshallah," cried the Sheik. " I have seen Fatima
and Zuleika and Your Mahal do much the same.

They had their little fits of temper ; but they always
came back. Mrs Fonblanque will come back too, if
you only leave her alone ; and if you allow me, I will
ride on to the town and send your boat round here.
In this way you will escape being mobbed."

With another and a louder flick, the Sheik disappeared.


I am sorry for you," I said to the Nun.

No, no," she answered. " You should be sorry for
Mrs Fonblanque. You really shouldn't tease her so.
I don't like the way my donkey fidgets ; but we must
gallop off as fast as we can, and see that none of the
pirates catch her."

They wouldn't care to keep her long," I retorted.

Then, as I stubbornly declined to stir, the Nun and
I both alighted, and giving our donkeys to the boys in
charge, we sat down close together in the narrow slip
of shadow cast by one of the mosque walls, and talked
Mrs Fonblanque over and over. We used her as a
standard with which to measure ourselves. The Nun
said she only came up to Mrs Fonblanque's shoulders.
I refused to audit this account. We had a little fight
over it, and so we wandered farther afield. She told
me that she had not been able to confess for a fortnight
; and then, for want of anybody better, she
seemed to be glad to give me a confidential insight
into all her innocent iniquities of the last two weeks.

"VVliat a good unselfish little creature she was ! She
had two thoughts — only two. She was a nun; and
she had loved somebody very dearly. She did not tell
me this, of course, but I knew enough to guess what
was in her mind.

Three years," she said at last, " is a long time, Mr
Hicks ; do you remember what you thought or said
three years ago ? "

11 Do you mean on really important occasions ? "

I think so," she answered ; " on occasions that were
really important, though they, perhaps, looked trivial at
the time."

Yes," I said, though my conscience was not altogether
easy — " yes, I fancy I should remember."

"I was sure of that from the way you talked of
little Edith. But would you feel bound to do what
you said ? "

I hope so."

But if you did not say it in so many words, Mr
Hicks ; if you only meant it ? "

That," I replied promptly, " would make no difference,
if I showed that I meant it."

Ah ! But who is to judge ? "

There was a look of intense yearning for sympathy
in her face just then, and I answered it at once.

Let me try to judge. Tell me as little as you like ;
but tell me a little more."

No, no, I can't," she said, very shyly — " I can't do
that. You will think me very silly for a nun, Mr
Hicks ; but sometimes we have to hear very painful
stories, and then we wonder what they mean. I am
only thinking of a story like that. Do people who
love each other know that they love each other without
actually talking about it aloud ? "

Most assuredly they do," I replied. " Their instinct
is absolutely certain there. ~No man ever loved a girl
yet without her knowing it, and when a girl loves him,
a man has always strong suspicions. He "

"Why, my dear, what a lovely colour you have
now ! " cried Mrs Fonblanque, as she suddenly rode upto
us. Her donkey was panting violently, and covered
with foam.

"I have had a most delightful round," she cried,
and I should like a long rest now in the shade of
that old wall. But there's that irrepressible old Sheik
getting out of a boat at the point."

There was no time for further explanations. The
Sheik gathered us under his wing and walked us off.
When we reached the ship, we found Priscilla perfectly
frantic. She had gone ashore with Mrs Fonblanque's
curiosity man. She had been pulled off her donkey.
Her veil had been rent by the mob, and she had been
most cruelly reviled by the crowd for not having a
white face.

Mrs Fonblanque, so she sent us word, was too busy
in sorting Priscilla's spoils to appear again, and I had
to fall back for conversation on my old friend the
Quartermaster, who now told me that, though not an
artist or a literary man, he had decided inclinations in
both those directions, and that he was the happy
possessor of a scrap-book of extracts that gave him a
literary and artistic reputation on board every ship he
sailed in.

vol. I.

Chapter XXIII.

The Sheik and myself might possibly have had a time-honoured
sort of interest in our own reminiscences,
but I cannot imagine what could have induced Mrs
Fonblanque to encourage us as she did, or why she
and I were sitting close together before breakfast,
right over the screw, as Captain Forbes was taking
us into Linga.

The Sheik sauntered up once or twice, and was so
successfully repulsed that he finally sank into a long
chair beside the Xun.

Then Mrs Fonblanque opened the campaign.

I have never, ^s you know, been in England, Mr
Hicks," she began, " and for that reason I could not
perhaps appreciate all the points of your personal
history so thoroughly as that wonderful man the
Sheik did. But I liked what you said about the
world spinning on and on — just as it spun before
you were worried ; and now you really might tell me
what happened afterwards."

Just then the Sheik and the Nun both looked up.
They were evidently talking of us, and were very likely
laughing at me. My uncle, however, had provided me
with a specific against self-consciousness at unseasonable
moments. I lit a cigarette.

I am of course only a type," I said. " But most
young men, when they have been maltreated and feel
disappointed, look upon all young women as their
natural enemies. I know I did; and for a time I
was terribly vindictive."

And you were dangerous ? " said Mrs Fonblanque,
showing more interest in my experiences than I had
expected.

"You may take that as you like," I answered.
I don't know how to put it. No boy's experiences,
when he is smarting under his first defeat, can be properly
told in plain English."

Is that so ? " she said, glancing round at the Nun
before she continued. " Is that so ? Well, to be
frank, I suspected you would say something like
that, from what I have read in my French novels.
But you need not tell me your experiences in plain
English, Mr Hicks. Tell them in French; only,
whatever you do, don't tell them improperly."

I really can't tell them in French," I replied. " I
am rather shaky in the irregular verbs, and surely it is
not necessary to tell them at all."

No ; perhaps not. Silence is golden, and discretion
the better part of valour. Isn't that so ? "

Certainly not," I retorted, briskly. " But disappointments
of this kind, whether you are talkative
or not, are as bitter, and very likely as wholesome, asa
tonic. You make wry faces over them at the time,
though they do you a world of good afterwards. But
at the time you want a lump of sugar to take the taste
out of your mouth — and you get it. The bitter and
the sweet, the sweet and the bitter — which is which ?
Who knows ? "

A woman would know at once," said Mrs Fons


Not she," I answered. " A woman wouldn't even
know what I mean. But as men grow older, the
morning - tide of life looks very pleasant to them ;
and the older they are, the more they talk about
their early experiences, and the more they regret
them."

Don't be cynical, Mr Hicks," said Mrs Fonblanque.
I am, you know, older in reality than you are. At all
events I feel so, and I think in that way."

Of course," I answered, " you may pretend to feel
older. But you and the Nun both said that women
never had any experiences. With men it is, I assure
you, different ; and no man ever quite forgets the early
days of his apprenticeship to life."

"Why ? " said Mrs Fonblanque, slowly fanning
herself, " why should you have experiences denied tous
? Isn't that unfair ? "

Perhaps it is, but certainly not unfair to you.
Look at my uncle, the type of everything I hold as
genuine and respectable. But even my uncle, when
the tablecloth is removed, almost always says that
he should never have known which the happiest
day of his life was if he had not been obliged to
pledge his watch for it. You know nothing about
experiences, Mrs Fonblanque. But when one is
young and impecunious, and brimful of faith and
enthusiasm and disappointments ; when one is heartbroken,
and fond of poetry, and all that, — how kind
and gentle all the women are ! "

Indeed," said Mrs Fonblanque, " kinder than now ? "

Forgive me ! " I cried. " I didn't mean women of
your class, or women that you could talk to, or recognise,
or speak about ; but all you fine ladies with
your grave airs and gentle graces, your full purses and
empty hearts, are the real cause of their existence."

For shame, Mr Hicks ! Stop."

One moment, please. You owe them a debt of
gratitude. They are your scapegoats, poor souls, as you
come out, fresh and smiling and gorgeous, like rare
exotics, from your hot - houses and conservatories.
We tease you, and please you, and admire you, and

how do you reply ? It is the ice-house, not the hothouse,
you have come from. But you are very vindictive
to the scapegoats; and, sooner or later, they
have to go out into the wilderness bearing your follies
with them."

"Mr Hicks," cried Mrs Fonblanque, indignantly
starting to her feet, and almost falling into the arms
of the Sheik's ill-favoured ally, who was trying to put
a big bag of pearls into her hands. " Oh, what lovely
pearls ! What do they want for them ? "

We were now at Linga, and, for a time at all events,
there was an end of humanitarian philosophy.

I should like four or five dozen of these," said
Mrs Fonblanque thoughtfully, as she selected the
best-looking pearls.

The man explained that this, if not impossible, would
be very expensive.

Mrs Fonblanque looked keenly at him, and sent for
Priscilla, who came up attended, as usual, by her faithful
cavalier the Quartermaster ; and the bargain was
soon concluded. Then, some one having said that big
oyster-shells make capital dessert-plates when they are
mounted in dead-silver, she started Priscilla and the
man off in a small boat to look for mother-of-pearl
oyster-shells. Then she stood up triumphantly in the
middle of us, as we crowded round her to look at her
pearls.

Do you know anything about pearls ? " she asked
me suddenly.

Very little," I replied. " I remember something of
a translation of an old German students' song we used
to sins at Heidelberg —

o o

i A herring loved an oyster —
An oyster of the south —
And grew sick and thin with longing
For a kiss from her pearly mouth.' "

And did he get it ? "

Yes. But she bit his head off ! "

Just like a woman, I suppose ? " asked Mrs
Fonblanque, laughing. " Is that all you know of
oysters ? "

Ask the Quartermaster, Mrs Fonblanque," said the
Captain. " Fore and aft we all use him as an encyclopaedia.
Bring up that wonderful scrap-book of yours,
Quartermaster, and give us a lesson in pearl-diving."

The Quartermaster was delighted; and so was Mrs
Fonblanque, for indirectly this was a lesson to me. I
was not allowed to do the showman's business. Anybody
else, even a Quartermaster, might be as tedious
as he liked.

The " banks of pearl " that " fade in the moonlight
beauteously " did not fit very readily into the Quartermaster's
rugged prose ; and, judging from what he said,

there cannot be much poetry about pearl-diving. The
men, poor wretches, stuff their ears and noses with
wax, and work on from April to October. They spend
half their lives under water, fasting fourteen hours out
of the four-and-twenty, and only come up for a breath
of air, blowing like porpoises, once in every two
minutes.

Not a bad way either of spending their time,"
observed the Sheik, " considering the climate and the
heat on shore at that time of year."

There are thousands of boats on the pearl-banks
then," said the Quartermaster, in a much louder voice
than the Sheik's. " The large boats have one master,
fourteen divers, and fourteen ordinary sailors. Every
boat pays a tax of two gold romans to the Sheik of
Linga — an Arab tributary to the Persian Shah. The
sailors get their wages only ; the skippers, who find or
borrow the working capital, have four shares in the
season's venture, and the divers two between them.
The best pearls are found in the deepest waters "

That, I think, is always so," said the Nun.

Indeed, miss," resumed the Quartermaster, rather
nettled at her gentle interruption, "it is only the casein
the Persian Gulf. Here the best pearls incline to
yellow in colour. In the Ceylon waters they incline
to a brilliant white. I am an ignorant man myself ;
but I have my authorities handy. ' In the Indies and

Muscovy,' " he continued, as he read out of his huge
square scrap-book in tones that reminded me suddenly
of our old church clerk, when Edith and I were children
— " ' in the Indies and Muscovy they like better
to see the water of a yellow cast than white, because
they say that those pearls in which the water is a
little tinged like gold always retain their brightness,
and never alter, while those that are white seldom last
longer than thirty years without, when, owing as well
to the warmth of the country as the heat of the body,
they take a dull yellow colour.' "

That's rather a queer fact in natural history, Quartermaster,"
I ventured to observe, as he panted for
want of breath.

Yes, it is," replied the Quartermaster ; " but there
are a lot of queer facts and queer stories about precious
stones. Look here, ma'am," he added, turning
over the pages of his great scrap-book. " The pearl is
an excellent tonic. Cleopatra's pearl, the finest of its
class on record, was found in these waters." Then
turning most civilly and politely to the Nun, he added
in quite another voice altogether, " The pearl has
always been regarded, miss, as the emblem of virgin
modesty. But, Lord ! what stories all the famous
stones could tell you ! What bloody murders they
have prompted ! what centuries of treachery there are
about them ! what bribes they are ! Now they glisten

and glitter boldly on some young female's lovely neck,
and she blushes, not altogether with pleasure, when
they are admired ; now they are hidden in a casket,
and can only be seen and handled when her boudoir-doors
are shut ; and then they deck some painted harridan
on the stage."

You really ought to have been a clergyman, Quartermaster,"
said Mrs Fonblanque, smiling.

"Not a clergyman, ma'am, but a lawyer — a sea-lawyer,
saving the Captain's presence. That's what
they all call me, when they make me turn my log
over to amuse them down below. But ' dumb jewels,'
ma'am, as Shakespeare says, ' often in their silent kind
more than quick words do move a woman's mind.'
And you, I understand, have just bought five dozen of
them. I have some jewel stories down in this book of
mine that will make your hair stand on end, and Mr
Hicks's too."

Never mind them now, Quartermaster," said Mrs
Fonblanque. " Don't frighten us. Mr Hicks doesn't
like being frightened. Give us facts."

"So I will, ma'am. Here, to start with, is fact
number one, about the way diamonds breed. A
passenger let me copy it out of a dog-eared book he
called Mandeville's ' Travels.' He seems to have got
a little mixed up, something in the way of my scrapbook,
between pearls and diamonds. But here he

is speaking of diamonds. This is what he says : ' They
grow many together, one little, another great; and
there are some of the greatness of a bean, and some
as great as a hazel-nut. They are square and pointed
of their own kind, both above and beneath, without
work of man's hand; and they grow together, male
and female ' "

"How many wives have they, Sheik, I wonder?"
asked Mrs Fonblanque.

Hush, Mrs Fonblanque ! " I said, waving to the
Quartermaster to go on.

' They are nourished " he continued in a deep bass
voice, " ' by the dew of heaven ; and they engender
commonly, and bring forth small children, that multiply
and grow all the year. I have oftentimes tried
the experiment, that if a man keep them with a little
of the rock, and wet them with May-dew often, they
shall grow every year, and the small will grow great ;
for right as the fair pearl conceals and grows great by
the dew of heaven, right so doth the true diamond ;
and right as the pearl of his own nature takes roundness,
so the diamond, by virtue of God, takes squareness.'
"

Well, I'm blest ! " cried the skipper. " You are
getting your innings, Quartermaster, and no mistake ! "

Is there nothing more about the little diamonds ? "
asked the Nun.

Pages and pages, miss," lie answered. " I'll go onto
the end now. ' The diamond loses its virtue by sin
and for incontinence of him who bears it, and if any
cursed witch or enchanter would bewitch him that
bears the diamond, all the sorrow and mischance shall
turn to the offender, through virtue of that stone ; and
also no wild beast dares assail the man who bears
it on him. It heals him that is lunatic, and those
whom the fiend pursues or torments.' "

Send these pearls to Polly," said Mrs Fonblanque,
interrupting him with three or four large pearls.
Don't be frightened — they are not diamonds ; and
now let me have a look at the book."

While we were all of us (even including the Sheik
and the Nun) laughing at the Quartermaster's solemnity,
Captain Forbes gave us a few more facts about
pearl-diving. The harvest of the sea in the Gulf
used, he said, to be worth half a million sterling
annually. But the character of the pearls had been
damaged of late by the excessive import of false pearls
from Birmingham. He took up as many as he brought
down, and the Persians were said to prefer the false
stones.

The divers," continued the Captain, " are a hard-worked,
ill-paid lot. Their owners, as you have heard,
stuff their ears and noses full of wax when they send
them under water, and here their obligations seem to

end. There are two or three English waifs and strays
among them, one of whom says he is an old Oxford
man. He is drunk for six months of the year, but as
sober as a judge in the pearl season. The natives
don't mind the competition of the Europeans; there
are so few of them, you see. But they won't stand
European inventions and machines. An American
from Bombay tried to introduce diving-bells and properly
equipped divers a few years back, bat the gear
was all smashed up on the evening after it was tried,
and the men themselves were considerably mauled'

How wicked and how stupid ! " cried the Nun,
when the poor divers might have gone down comfortably
without wax in their ears and noses. Who
was it did this ? "

The pearl-divers' wives," replied the Captain, " and
they did it most completely. But the pearl-divers
don't have the worst of it, Mrs Fonblanque. The
experts in India suffer far more than they do; for
judging pearls brings on blindness sooner or later.
The way in which the pearls are sold before they
reach India is also rather queer. They are sold by
weight in packets worth thirty or forty thousand
rupees each. Sometimes the shells are sold unopened
by the thousand ; and, in the case of very big and fine
pearls, they are sold on the open shell. You see the
outer half of the stone. If the inside portion is equally

good it may be a pearl beyond price. But you must
buy it like a pig in a poke, and you must be sure that
the other side has not been looked at first."

Surely there is something wrong there," said the
Nun.

It is all wrong," replied the skipper. " It must be
wrong, when we get the same jewel-freight for carrying
false pearls up to Linga as we get for bringing real
pearls down."

Just then Mrs Fonblanque waved a bundle of
manuscripts at us. " Eureka ! " she cried. " Where
did you get this from, Quartermaster ? The writing
seems to be quite fresh."

Oh, bless my soul ! " replied the Quartermaster,
"it blew my way when the passenger we left at
Bushire was emptying his writing-desk into the sea.
I thought it too good for such a big waste-paper
basket, as he called the sea, and I stuck it into my
book, meaning to give it back to him when he was
sober. But he never was sober, and so I forgot all
about it."

I suspect you are a collector, Mr Quartermaster,"
said Mrs Fonblanque, looking up. " A collector never
gives back anything that blows his way. He ought
to, of course ; but there is, I know, a fascination about
collecting anything, butterflies, postage-stamps, crests,
or even rupees. One becomes a miser in one's own

line. I remember a young chaplain urging me to
become a collector, j It is he said, ' at once a discipline
and an amusement. Every Englishwoman in
India ought to collect something, were it only to kill
the tedium of the long, long Indian day.' He was a
sententious young griffin, but he was right; and I
have been a collector ever since."

"And what," asked I, "have you collected, Mrs
Eonblanque ? "

Reminiscences," she answered, with a gentle sigh.

Reminiscences ! Why, you said women never had
any."

Oh, dear me, Mr Hicks, how literal we are now !
And how ignorant we are too ! A woman says what
she likes, and does what she can. But she always
remembers. Didn't you learn that lesson from Fatima
and Zuleika and Nour Mahal, and the rest of them,
Sheik?"

Yes," said the Sheik, stroking his beard. " They
remember when they like, and they never forget. But
how about the paper in your hand, madam ? I thought
by the way you held it that you were going to read it
out aloud to us."

"Well' she replied, "I don't mind if I do. I own
I enjoy reading aloud, just as I enjoy singing. But
you have to know what you sing before you sing it.
In reading you are often as much surprised as your

audience. This manuscript of the man with too many
experiences struck me as opening in an original
fashion, and it is not very long. This is what he

says : "

Mrs Fonblanque read as well as she sang, and the
way in which she put the capital letters vocally,
would have astounded a professor of elocution. But
the manuscript, though it does not deserve it, requires
another chapter.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/ladybluebeard02curw

Z I T AND X E :

Their Early Experie>-ces.

Reprinted from ' Blackwood' s Magazines

Second Edition. Crown 8vo, price One Shilling.

OPINIONS OF THE PRESS ON 'ZIT AND XOE.'

"The story of that early courtship in the morning of the world would not
he easy to match for brightness and colour." — St James's Gazette.

A cleverly conceived and admirably written little story." — Daily News.

"Graceful, spirituel, and amusing from end to end"— Morning Post.

A simplicity and quiet humour that afford capital entertainment

Exceedingly droll and amusing." — Daily Chronicle.

A very amusing book." — Academy.

"Full of tender touches and genial humour. A dainty epitome of man's

joys and troubles, fears and hopes One of those little books that, while

they amuse, leave the reader also for the time with kindlier and braver
thoughts of his kind." — Pioneer.

"Admirably told. From first to last it is thoroughly interesting"— scotsman.


So cleverly conceived that it will be read not only with amusement but
with admiration for the unknown author's powers of imagination and descriptions"—
Scottish News.

Zit tells the story of his wooing very prettily." — Vanity Fair.

"A delicious skit'' — Bradford Observer.

Freshness both in idea and treatment." — Globe.

The descriptions of the scenery are excellent, and there are at times
humorous turns of phrases and odd situations which make the story a taking
one." — Nottingham Guardian.

Written in an exceedingly clever and entertaining style"— Abrt^eni Whig.

Most amusing and clever." — Literary World.

"A delicious picture An exceedingly clever work." — Glasgow Herald.

'' Described with a quiet sense of fun and an unconsciousness of its absurdities
that is quite delightful Quaint, delicately humorous, and

poeticaL" — Illustrated Sporting and Dramatic News.

"An amusing story." — Liverpool Courier.

Very subtle and pleasant"— J^rmy and Navy Gazette.

Undiminished humour and beauty A tale such as only ' Blackwood '

gives, and not too often, overflowing with extravagance and poetry, wit and
humour." — Illustrated London News.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD & Sons, Edinburgh A>fD London.

BY THE

Author OF 'ZIT AND XOE

IN TWO VOLUMES
VOL. IL

William Blackwood A:N^D SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXVIII

LADY Bluebeard.

Chapter Xxii.

There was a loud murmur of approval in Court as
one of the ushers held up a Kit-cat portrait of an exquisitely
beautiful lady in a low yellow satin dress.

' The jury, my lud continued the counsel for the
defence, 'will have to consider the sinister depths of
those dark violet eyes. It will be my painful duty to
call their attention to the set expression of the lips,
otherwise full and ripe, and to the arch of the determined
eyebrows, which, whatever my learned brother
may say about pencilling, betray a decided inclination
to frown. The colour of those damask cheeks is not,
and unfortunately cannot be, natural. It is not the
blush of innocence. It is far too pink and white, and

VOL. II. A

far too "taking," as my lady experts will no doubt
explain to you in detail. The light in those violet
eyes comes obviously from Bella Donna ; and how,
I would ask you, gentlemen of the jury, as men of the
world, can a woman with dark violet eyes have golden
hair ? The inference is obvious. The portrait, the
authenticity of which I shall establish for a hundred
and fifty years, is the portrait of a cruel, heartless, and
deceitful woman; a fascinating woman, no doubt; a
woman of remarkable power and great ability ; but a
woman capable of anything. I now put the portrait
into Court as Exhibit E 14, and I denounce the lady in
the low yellow satin gown as a criminal of the deepest
dye. Later on I shall give you her history. But as
I do not wish to waste the time of the Court, it will
be enough for me now to express my pity and contempt
for the eminent artist, who, doubtless from the
mercenary motives of those days, has almost enabled
us to see the lady in the flesh.'

' I don't think that has altogether to be regretted,
Mr Attorney,' said his lordship, carefully readjusting
his gold eye-glasses.

"Here the people in Court laughed immoderately,
and I had the opportunity of asking the man next
me — a seedy-looking fellow, apparently a lawyer's
clerk out of* employ — what it all meant. I had just
come back from the Antipodes, and having half an

hour to spare, I had strolled into the new Law Courts
accidentally on my way down to the City.

' Wliat does it all mean ! ' he exclaimed. ' Whereon
earth do you come from ? It is the great Hum-mum
Street Murder Case. Did you ever in your life
see a more deplorable-looking object than the prisoner
at the bar ? With a face like that, what a life he
must have led, poor fellow, and how sympathetically
the jury are looking at him ! You have only to look
at his face to see that his acquittal is a dead certainty.'


' I don't understand you.'

' Well, I'll put it as plain as I can. I'll lay you
five to three that he is acquitted. Come now ! '

"thank you, no,' I answered. 'The prisoner appears
to me to be capable of any crime. I'll give you
ten to one in sovereigns that he did commit the murder,
whatever it was.'

' Commit the murder ! Of course he committed
the murder ! No one doubts that. He was throttling
the woman when the police caught him. But who is
to blame ? That is the question before the Court.'

"By this time the amusement excited by the
judge's remark having subsided, the jury returned
the portrait to the usher, and the Attorney-general
continued his speech. He proceeded to show that
every pretty dimple on the lady's face was repeated

and exaggerated in the prisoner's crime-worn, weatherbeaten
countenance. Then experts, doctors, chemists,
cosmetic-makers, hairdressers, milliners, dressmakers,
and what not, were called in to prove that the original
of the portrait was deceitful and false, and in every
way well adapted for the perpetration of the most
terrible crimes. Physiognomists gave evidence as
to the curve of her upper li^^, and the impatient
way in which she was apparently beating a tattoo
with the little finger of her left hand. A
plump, rosy, grey-haired Scotch housekeeper established
the traditions of the servants' hall, as they had
been handed down for a hundred and fifty years.
Torn letters and faded diaries were put in evidence,
and as the Attorney-general disclosed in a few well-chosen,
pathetic, and very discreet words the minutest
details of the portrait's life, all the ladies in Court —
and the Court was crowded with ladies — had to hold
up their fans. He kept his trump card to the last,
though; and the items for one particular period of
three months of her milliner's bill, as he read them
slowly out, item by item, produced a profound impression
upon all the men in Court, and even among the
members of the junior bar. The prisoner noticed
this, and began to look quite relieved. He was far
from handsome even then. But he smiled, not altogether
unpleasantly, until a severe scowl from his

solicitor made him retake his ordinary countenance
before the jury detected the change.

"There was breathless silence in Court as the
Solicitor-general rose for the prosecution.

"'So far so good he said, grimly. 'But that
picture which my learned brother has turned to
such account is, I am instructed to say, an impudent
forgery. It is the portrait of a notorious
actress ; it was bought in Ardour Street, and it
has been touched up for the occasion.'

Here my neighbour nudged me violently. ' I
knew he'd say that,' he whispered. ' That's the only
chance he has left, and a very poor chance too.
There'll be some pretty sparring, but he hasn't a leg
to stand on.'

My neighbour was right. In a few minutes more
the pedigree of the portrait was properly established.
Here at least the lady was immaculate. Then the
Court rose for lunch, and my neighbour and I strolled
out together.

' I never saw anything neater ! ' cried he. ' It's
as clear as daylight now. What a man the Attorney-general
is for throwing light on difficult questions.'

"That might be so. But I was still rubbing my
eyes with amazement as I invited my new friend to
enter a wine-shop in the Strand that I remembered
of old. •

' I have been away for some years I explained,
'and if you are really bent on gold-bearing quartz,
you must lose your touch of local matters at home.
But still I cannot possibly conceive what the portrait
of the lady in the yellow satin dress has to do
with the question of the prisoner's guilt or innocence.'

' You can't ? ' he replied, replacing his glass, now
empty, on the counter. ' Why, that lady is his great-great-grandmother
! That's all ! If she is guilty, he
must be innocent.'

' If she is guilty '

' That establishes the hereditary taint. It is four
years since any one was condemned in England, after
the hereditary taint had been fairly proved. Of course
he throttled the woman, but it was his great-great-grandmother's
wicked ways and ungovernable temper
that compelled him to throttle her, poor chap ! Thank
you, I will take another glass, and then we'll go into
Court again.'

' You really ought to go in again,' said the barman
blandly, as I paid for the wine. ' I wish I had the
chance myself ; but as soon as I saw the illustrations
in the 'Police News,' I worked it all out from my
Pangenesis.'

' And what, pray, is your Pangenesis ? '

' Dear me ! ' said the barman ; ' Pangenesis, the
great Pangenesis, the first man who discovered that

rather more than nine-tenths of everybody's actions
are due to ancestral influences, over which the existing;
individual has no sort of control. You astound me,
sir. Don't you remember the fuss there was about
the Pangenesis Bill, when Darwin, and Herbert
Spencer, and Zola, and Galton, were all thrown over
in favour of Pangenesis ? '

' Whew ! ' I cried (for we had no barmen of this
kind in our part of the world). ' Where were you
brought up, my man ? '

' At a board school,' he answered gruffly; ' but they
cut out Darwin and Zola from the list of primers after
I left, and put Pangenesis in instead. Coming, sir,
coming;' and then he turned to another group of
customers, evidently wondering where I had been
brought up.

"the people are going in,' said my neighbour,
seeing that there was no more wine to be had. ' We'll
have to hurry up if we mean to get standing room.'

' Thank you ; I've seen enough for one morning,
and I have an engagement in the City at 2.30 about
financing a gold-mine, which I scarcely like to put off.
What will they do with the prisoner ? '

' Give him his costs, of course, and the judge will
say something handsome about his leaving the Court
without a stain on his character.'

' And the lady's portrait — will that suffer ? '

' Can you doubt it, after what you heard just now ?
She will have nine months in the Chamber of Horrors,
and a summary of the trial will be ordered by the Court
to be put against her name in Burke's ' Landed Gentry.'
Poor thing ! there was something fascinating in her
eyes, and one feels rather sorry for her after all.
Thank you for your wine, sir. I wish you could
come in and see it out ; and I do wish you had taken
my bet.' "

Well," said the Sheik, when Mrs Fonblanque had
finished, '' the gentleman of too many experiences must
have been madder than I thought him. I did not like
what I saw of the courts at home. But we knew
nothing in our set of Pangenesis and the hereditary
taint. I could hardly follow the story, but the
doctrine it inculcates is surely dangerous. What
should I do, madam, if Nour Mahal, when I had
cause to blame her, said it was all the fault of some
remote maternal ancestor, whom I could not possibly
get at ? "

"I think you would probably agree with Nour
Mahal," answered Mrs Fonblanque, quietly.

"You really ought to have a harem of your own,
madam," cried the Sheik. "That is the real secret.
Always agree, and never give in. I thoroughly
approve of your policy. But I can't say I like such
a sudden shifting of responsibility; and then, the

man who wrote that story — that is, if he did write it
was not a man one could think much of."

No, perhaps not," said Sister Patricia, who did not
often venture an opinion. " I had scarcely heard of
the doctrine of heredity before. I fancy that he was
somehow or other trying to find an excuse for himself,
poor fellow ! "

I daresay," exclaimed Mrs Fonblanque.

Then, as she was stopped suddenly by an appealing
glance from the ]Noun, I took uj) the parable.

Sister Patricia may be right," I explained ; " but it
doesn't much matter, as my uncle always used to say,
what your ancestors or your children are, or may be,
and it matters nothing to anybody but yourself what
you yourself are."

Oh, doesn't it ? " cried Mrs Fonblanque, recovering
herself. " I have no ancestors and no children ; but
still I have to be taken into account, I fancy. Here
is another manuscript in the same handwriting.
Shall I read it out, gentlemen ? "

We all begged her to go on ; and so Priscilla, who
had just returned, had to leave her sack of oysters on
the deck and wait very sulkily till Mrs Fonblanque
had finished.

Then in a sweet, low, silvery voice Mrs Fonblanque
began : —

Long ago among the blue lakes and black mountains

of the evening land there dwelt a youth, who,
after a frank and sunny boyhood, became strange and
restless and morose, and cared for nothing but lonely
wanderings through the pine forests on the mountain-side.
He talked as he went to the beasts and birds,
the rocks and trees, but he hardly ever waited for
an answer. The fox told fairy tales ; the streamlet
hummed a ballad ; and the lark, wherever there was
room enough, carolled blithely out. The wild roses,
as he passed them, brushed softly over his curls, and
the evergreen petted his careworn forehead. But he
refused to be comforted ; and yet only a month or
two before he had filled his father's house with gladness
; he had been merrier than any one else ; and
from the graceful way he danced, all the girls dreamt
of him as their sweetheart.

"Among these girls there was one, a charming,
delightful child. Her hair was like golden silk, her
lips as red and ripe as cherries ; her face was wonderfully
fair and frank; but she had coal-black
burning eyes. She was as slight as a fairy and little
more than a child, but all who chanced to see her
almost died of her beauty. Eoseblossom then (that
was her name) gave her whole heart to Hyacinth
(that was his name), and before the change came over
him he loved her very dearly. They were both
children at the best, and the other children knew

nothiiiQ; of it. A violet was the first to tell, tliouoii
the cats and the mice, too, in the garden down below,
had certainly suspected something when they saw
Eoseblossom leaning out of her window every evening
and Hyacinth leaning out of his."

Here Mrs Fonblanque detected me smiling.

It is a pretty story," she said, slightly raising her
voice, " but there is something sarcastic in that smile
of yours, 'Mr Hicks. Why do you laugh at their
names, poor things ? "

Oh," I answered, " never mind just now. The
story is a pretty one, and the names are pretty too.
I will tell you why I smiled when you have finished.
Pray go on. I won't interrupt you again."

So Mrs Fonblanque continued : —

"The violet told the secret to the strawberry-bed,
who passed it on to his friend the gooseberry-bush,
who never stopped whispering dien Hyacinth walked
by. So it soon became known to the whole garden
and forest, and when Hyacinth went anywhere, the
trees, and plants, and flowers used to call out from all
sides, ' Little Eoseblossom is my little love ! '

But these happy days were soon over, for there
came a strange man from foreign parts who had
travelled marvellously far. He had a Teat longs
beard and deep-set eyes and dismal eyebrows; he
wore a coat of many folds, with weird patterns woven

iu them. He sat him down on the stranger's bench,
beneath the larches and just before the house of
Hyacinth's father; and when Hyacinth brought out
meat and bread and wine, he stroked his great white
beard, and talked deep into the night ; and Hyacinth
never wearied of listening. From what they gathered
afterwards, the traveller spoke much of unknown
lands, and strange and curious things. He remained
three days, taking Hyacinth with him up to the tops
of mountains and down to deep pits and caverns,
searching for no one knew what. Little Eoseblossom,
gentle soul though she was, began to hate him, for
through him Hyacinth grew stranger than ever and
scarcely touched his food. At last the wizard suddenly
went away, leaving Hyacinth a little book,
which not even he could read. But he pored over it
by night and day ; Eoseblossom, poor child, doing all
she could to help him, till everybody pitied her.

One day, however, Hyacinth came home as if newborn.
' I must go into foreign countries,' he cried to
his mother as he kissed her. ' The old woman in the
forest has told me how to recover. She threw the
book into the fire, and bade me go to you and ask
your blessing. Perhaps I shall return. Perhaps I
shall never come back. Give my farewells to Eose-
blossom, for I dare not speak to her now. Wliat it
is that ails me I know not. But some strange new

feeling drives me on and on. I cannot think of the
old days as I used to. Peace has departed. Love
and Hope have gone too, and I must needs go seek
them. By-and-by I shall know whither I am going.
Now I only know that I must find the sacred land in
the centre of which stands the shrine of Isis the
Violet Virgin. Isis alone can cure me. My soul
yearns for her. Farewell ! '

He tore himself away, and started. His parents
mourned for him as for the dead. Little Eoseblossom
kept to her chamber and wept bitterly.

Hyacinth went hastening over valleys and wildernesses,
mountains and rivers, inquiring everywhere
after the holy country, from men and beasts, from
rocks and trees. Some laughed, some were silent, but
he heard no tidings of it. At first the regions through
which he passed were rough and wild, and thick
clouds and fogs threw themselves across his path.
Then he went through broad deserts of sand and
burning dust. And, as he wandered, Time seemed to
lie unrolled before him ; his restlessness fell from him
like a burden ; he felt changed and softened ; and gradually
the uneasy striving in him became a still, strong
current, with which his whole mind was blended.
The country, too, grew rich and fertile. It was as
though many years were lying behind. Clumps of
trees allured him with their pleasant shade, and,

though he could not understand their language, they
filled his heart with green colours, and fresh hopes,
and longings infinitely sweet ; and then Time ran
rapidly, as if nearing its goal.

One day he met a crystal spring and a mass of
flowers coming down the valley between black columns
high as heaven. They saluted him like old friends
with familiar words. 'Dear countrymen,' said he,
where can I find the sanctuary of Isis ? Surely it
must be somewhere hereabouts, and surely you know
the land better than I do.'

' Oh, we are merely passing through,' replied the
flowers. 'A family of spirits is journeying, and we
prepare their way and lodging. Still we have just
crossed a country where her name was on every
tongue. Climb the pass from whence we came, and
you will learn more.'

"The flowers and the spring smiled as they said
this; then they offered him a cool drink, and went
their way.

"Hyacinth followed their advice. He asked his
road everywhere as he journeyed, and at last he
reached the sanctuary of Isis. Stately palm-trees
stood like sentinels around it, and he had to force his
way through a thick labyrinth of huge-leaved plants.
Acrid odours and sleepy perfumes came from them
as he went, and the scent of the great red poppies in

the undergrowth tempted him to lie down a while and
rest. At length, however, he stood before the sacred
portal. Then his heart throbbed with an infinite
longing, and, entering the dwelling of the Eternal
Seasons, the sweetest yearning thrilled him through.
With heavenly perfumes he was lulled to sleep, for
only a dream might bear him into the Holy of Holies ;
and on delicious sounds and ever-changing harmonies,
most wondrously that holy dream did bear him
through halls of dazzling brightness, full of marvellous
things. All around seemed so known of old, and yet
in never-before-seen glory. The last earthly tinge
and taint of human weakness was absorbed in a rarer
air than he had ever breathed before. Then suddenly
he stood within the shrine, before Isis, the Heavenly
Virgin. He lifted her filmy and dazzling veil — and
little Eoseblossom herself fell into his arms ! "

'' Is that all ? " asked the Sheik.

"Yes," said Mrs Fonblanque slowly, 'but what
more would you wish ? "

That really is a pretty story," said Sister Patricia.
I like it much better than the other one, and I seem
to understand it perfectly. Hyacinth had to go
through all these troubles before he deserved Eose-
blossom's love. How pleased he must have been to
find that it was little Eoseblossom his soul yearned for
all along ! "

"I am not quite so sure of that," exclaimed the Sheik,
grimly. " I suspect he was rather disappointed at
first to think that he had had all this worry and
trouble for nothing."

You are an incorrigible old sceptic, Sheik," cried
Mrs Fonblanque, shaking her fan at him. "The
story is only meant to illustrate what ]mr Hicks was
saying when you interrupted us, about the early days
of every man's apprenticeship to life. Love and content
would be worth nothing if they were not painfully
won."

"Well, well," said the Sheik, "we differ. I like
my love and content at home. I didn't have much of
either on my travels. What do you say, sir ? "

Perhaps," said the skipper, with a bluff laugh, " Mr
Hicks is travelling just now in much the same mood
as Hyacinth travelled. You have only to let him lift
your veil, Mrs Fonblanque, next time you put on that
horrible costume, and then "

"Don't be personal. Captain Forbes, and please
don't try to be funny."

I beg your pardon, ma'am, but it would have
made matters much easier if Hyacinth and Eose-
blossom had travelled in the same steamer, withall
of us to talk to them like flowers and rocks and
birds and beasts."

Don't be rude, Captain Forbes, and don't be absurd.

Now, Mr Hicks, be good enough to tell us why you
laughed at the poor man's very poetical story."

Oh," I said, laughing a little, " I only laughed
because I had read something very like it before. I
remembered it directly you read out the names. The
original tale, though the man of too many experiences
has altered it a good deal, was written by ISTovalis
that is, by Friedrich von Hardenberg."

Is that really so ? " exclaimed Mrs Fonblanque,
looking quite pleased. " I have often wished to read
his books ; I have read a great deal about him, but no
one in India has a copy."

I have a copy in my book-box," I replied.

That is delightful ! Come, as a reward for keeping
your secret so well, you shall read the next piece, Mr
Hicks. It is very short. It seems to be in verse, and
you look as if you could read poetry."

I thanked her for her sarcasm, and glanced through
the manuscript. " It is a duet," I said. " We must
read it together. You have to begin."

Anything to please you, Mr Hicks. I didn't mean
to be sarcastic. Give me hold of one side of the
paper, and let us each pause a little after the other
speaks."

You must begin," I said. " You are Chloe and I
am Mnazilus."

VOL. II. B

Chloe.

flower-strewn borders ! tall reeds blowing
In rhythmic tune to the water flowing !
Oh tell me, is Mnazilus near your glades ?
Often he comes to your peaceful shades,
And often I wish that the trembling air
Would bring me a message when he is there.

Mnazilus.

stream ! the mother of flowers, you hold
This lonely dell in your girdling fold ;
Then why not bring to your winding thrall
Chloe, the daintiest flower of all ?

Chloe.

If he but knew that I came to dream
Of love, and of him beside the stream 1
Oh ! if a glance or a tender smile
Could make him tarry a little while.

Mnazilus.

Oh ! if some proud god would breathe a word
Of the thoughts with which my heart is stirred,
Then dare I pray her, when she was near me,
To let me love her, at least to hear me !

Chloe.

Oh joy, 'tis he ! — he speaks— I tremble —
Be quiet, lips ! eyes, dissemble !

Mnazilus.

The foliage rustled methought I heard —
'Tis she ! O eyes, say never a word !

Chloe.
What ! Mnazilus here ! How strange to meet
With you in this lonely green retreat !

Mnazilus.

Alone I lay in the shady grass,
And never expected a soul to pass.

The Captain, after we had both finished, burst into
a loud guffaw. " You told me not to try to be funny,"
he cried. " You can't think how funny you both of
you looked."

"Well, I felt like a goose, Captain Forbes," said
Mrs Fonblanque. "They were rather weak and
feeble verses."

I don't think so at all," exclaimed the Nun. " I
thought they were very natural, and that you read
them beautifully. I wonder if the poor man wrote
that ? "

And so do I," I added. " But what are we going
to do next ? "

Open the oyster-shells, of course," said Mrs Fons
"and look for pearls. You might let me
keep these reapers till they are called for, Quartermaster,
if you don't want them ? "

Keep them, and welcome, ma'am," said the Quartermaster,
touching his cap. " They are hardly up to the
standard of the extracts in my log."

Priscilla had purchased two hundredweight of
oyster-shells at thirty rupees a hundredweight. We
soon got tired of opening the shells without any
result, and the work was then made over to a

number of lascars, with Priscilla, the lynx-eyed, to
watch them.

Later on, when the sun was sinking, the Sheik and
I went ashore. The ladies had had enough of going
ashore at Bahrein, and the Captain, who had been up
all night, stuck obstinately to his long chair.

Linga, as you look at it, ought to be the chief port
in the Gulf. The roadstead is open, and there is deep
water close to the shore. But it is shut in by a belt
of tall mountains, only fifteen miles away. There are
no Europeans, though there is the usual English postoffice,
and a moiety of its ten thousand inhabitants are
Zanzibar negroes and negresses. The few women we
saw in the streets were muffled up rather than veiled.
From the anchorage the town appears to be well laid
out. The houses are distributed pretty evenly over
a tolerably large area. Behind the town there is a
picturesque background of date-palms, and over the
domed reservoirs at either end there is another clump
of trees. The streets are wider than at either Bushire
or Bahrein, but the bazaar is a poor one. We saw all
we could see of Linga in an hour or less ; and then, as
we were rowed off to the ship again, the Sheik pointed
out Massacre, the only British territory in the Gulf.
It is garrisoned and maintained by an English dispensary
from India, and may some day be a useful foothold.
Then we boarded the steamer, to find everybody

in an intense state of excitement. Mrs Fonblanque,
simply because she did not want anything more, had
during our absence become the owner of an enormous
pearl, which Priscilla had detected, just as one of the
lascars was trying to conceal it. It was a beautiful
stone, white in colour and lustrous, big as a pebble,
and without a flaw. Even the Sheik was impressed
by its size and colour.

Never mind, Mr Hicks," said Mrs Fonblanque, as
I took her down to dinner. " I shall call it the ' Hicks
Pearl,' of course, and when we come to Bunder Abbas
you can buy another two hundredweight of oyster-shells,
and I'll lend you Priscilla to find you a ' Fons
Pearl.' The Quartermaster said, I think,
that there is not much poetry about pearl-diving. I
gave him three or four pearls for Polly, and now I
have got a pearl in answer that will make history for
some centuries to come, if I am able to resist the
temptation to use it as a tonic."

Just before we disappeared, the Quartermaster
caught us up. He was almost reverential in his
attitude, as he touched the big book under his arm.
I thought, ma'am, you ought to know that I have
entered the finding of the new pearl in my book.
There will be bloody work over that pearl, too, some
day."

Chapter Xxi.

We were certainly a curious party, we three, as we
enjoyed our picnic in the middle of a sort of mer ch
glctce, which glittered in the bright sunlight with
every colour of a gorgeous rainbow. The island, as
far as we could see it, was covered with incrustations
of salt, and these in many places were as transparent
as ice or glass. We were sitting on a peak in Ormuz.
Mrs Fonblanque and I were having a modest tiffin,
and the Quartermaster was busily engaged in ministering
to our wants. We had been hours over the
voyage. The tide was against us, and the wind had
dropped, and we were both rather cross. When we
left our steamer lashed alongside the hulk at Bunder
Abbas, the Captain vowed by all his gods that he
would not and could not wait for us after sunset.
However, Mrs Fonblanque had made up her mind
to visit Ormuz, and here in Ormuz we were; for,
when the others had cried off, I was naturally bound
to follow. The Captain had lent us his gig in a

huff, and had told off the Quartermaster to bring
us back.

"Is it not rather like the desolation of desolation,
of which the Prophet speaks, Mrs Fonblanque ? " I
asked, as soon as we were comfortably settled on
our rugs. " There is not a tree on the island. There
is not even a sign of vegetation. Are you not very
tired, and are you not sorry that you ever came
here ? "

Neither the one thing nor the other," replied Mrs
Fonblanque, cheerily. " I think it is simply delicious.
I am sick of palm-trees and what you call infinities of
green colour. Green is a colour that never suits me.
Here you have more colours than ever you had on
your palette. Look how brilliant they are, and how
iridescent, and how quickly they change ! What
more could an artist desire ? "

Well," I answered, " without being very greedy, I
should like to be able to realise something of the past
splendours and glories of Ormuz. You talked about
them all the way here, and that kept me up. Now I
am nonplussed. There are a few squalid fishermen's
huts down below. There are a few starved goats
cutting capers on the salt-hills up above. So much
for the present! And as for the past, the glorious
past, we have the remains of a lighthouse and a fort,
the crumbling ruins of an old church which had

never any back to it, a number of dry reservoirs,
a few roofless houses, and some dismounted rust-covered
Portuguese guns, half buried in the salt,
like pigs pickling."

Fie, fie, Mr Hicks ! " she retorted — " fie on you as
an artist ! You who thought to reconstruct Ctesiphon
from a single archway ! Your imagination must be
out of sorts. We are in Ormuz, if you please, sir.
Around us and beneath we have the wealth of Ormuz
and of Ind, barbaric pearls and gold and what not.
We are sitting, you and I, a trifle out of date perhaps,
at the very centre of a mighty empire, in the
heart of the vast emporium of a lavish and generous
commerce. Everything here is typical, or should be
typical, of oriental luxury and the most extravagant
magnificence."

Will you have any more soda-water, ma'am ? " interrupted
the Quartermaster, respectfully, " or shall
I give you a few more extracts from my log-book ? "

The log-book, please. Quartermaster," said Mrs
Fonblanque, leaning comfortably back, with her small
white hands clasped behind her head. She did not,
perhaps, know her own power, but the rare grace of
her lazy attitude was in itself almost fatal to the
historical studies to which the Quartermaster was
anxious to introduce me.

"I will quote Justamond first," said the Quartermaster,

turning over the pages of his great log-book.
"He is talking of Ormuz in the eleventh century
A.D. I needn't mind that, ma'am, and so I glide
softly over a century or two. You must understand
that in the interval the Arabs had made this God-forsaken
rock the capital of a tremendous empire.
To cut matters short, this is what Justamond says : —

' At the time of the arrival of the foreign merchants,
Ormuz afforded a more splendid and agreeable
scene than any city in the East. Persons from all
parts of the globe exchanged their commodities, and
transacted their business with an air of politeness
and attention which are seldom seen in other places
of trade.

' These manners were introduced by the merchants
belonging to the ports, who induced foreigners to
imitate their affability. Their address, the regularity
of their police, and the variety of entertainments
which their city afforded, joined to the interests of
commerce, invited merchants to make it a place of
resort. The pavements of the streets were covered
with mats, and in some places with carpets ; and the
linen awnings which were suspended from the tops
of the houses prevented any inconvenience from the
heat of the sun. Indian cabinets, ornamented with
gilded vases, or china filled with flowering shrubs or
aromatic plants, adorned their apartments ; camels,

laden with water, were stationed in the public squares ;
Persian wines, perfumes, and all the delicacies of the
table, were furnished in the greatest abundance ; and
they had the music of the East in its highest perfection.
In short, universal opulence and extensive
commerce, a refined luxury, politeness in the men and
gallantry in the women, united all their attractions to
make this city the seat of pleasure.' "

"The manners of the Persian Gulf, I am afraid,
have rather gone to the bad smce then. Quartermaster,"
I ventured to observe.

So I have noticed, sir," he answered. " But this
is what Palpi Filch says : ' There is nothing growing
in it but only salt. . . In the town are merchants
of all nations, and many Moors and Gentiles. There
is a very great trade of all sorts of spices, drugs, silk,
cloth of silk, fine tapestry of Persia, great stores of
pearls, which come from the Isle of Bahrein, and are
the best pearls of all others, and many horses of Persia,,
which serve all India.' "

"Well, well, why is it such a wilderness ? " asked
Mrs Ponblanque, impatiently.

Ten minutes ago," I remarked, " you said it was
simply delicious, grand and magnificent and historical,,
and I don't know what besides."

Yes. But that was ten minutes ago. Why is it a
howling wilderness of sultans now. Quartermaster ? "

"All on account of the Christians' replied the
Quartermaster slowly. " First the Portuguese took it,
and Signor Albuquerque knew his business when he
was a conqueror, and so did his shipmates. This is
what the book says: 'Antonio do Campo, leaving
Alfonso albuquerque, in whose company he was,
pursued a crowd of women, who were retreating to
the hills, and killed many of them.' Again : ' He
returned to the city, and put all the Moors, with
their women and children found in the houses, to the
sword without giving any quarter. Young men captured
were put to work, and old Moors who were of no
use he had their noses and ears cut off and let them
go.' Then he built the church over there to our Lady
of Victories."

What an old wretch ! " cried Mrs Fonblanque.

"All conquerors are much the same," said the
Quartermaster stolidly ; " the English were quite as
bad when they drove out the Portuguese, and put an
end to Ormuz altogether."

How was that ? "

"This is how it was, sir. In the year 1663 the
English and Shah Abbas the Great determined to
divide the spoils of Ormuz. The English were to
have two million pounds sterling as their share.
They sacked the place at night — and found next to
no thin ff in it."

"Another?"

Then they were so vexed that they cut the throats
■of everybody here, and the Shah started Bunder Abbas
to replace Ormuz."

Thank you, Quartermaster," said Mrs Fonblanque,
Rising. " It is time for your tiffin, and it is almost too
lot for any more history."

It is hot, ma'am," replied the Quartermaster reluctantly,
wiping his brow. "Marco Polo says it is so
hot here that the people have often to lie in the water
all day long. And as for Bunder Abbas, or Gombroon
as they called it, Ralph Filch says it is so hot there
'' that nature seemed not to have designed it should be
inhabited. It is situated at the foot of a ridge of
mountains of an excessive height ; the air you breathe
seems to be on fire ; mortal vapours continually exhale
from the bowels of the earth ; the fields are black and
dry, as if they had been scorched with fire.' "

That's a pretty place to go to," I said, as Mrs Fons
impatiently motioned me to rise.

I hope to take you there tomorrow, Mr Hicks,"
she answered, " if that absurd Captain Forbes doesn't
insist on our sailing to-night."

Thank you, Quartermaster," I said, before starting.
" Make a good square meal ; you deserve it.
That's a wonderful book of yours. Where on earth
did you pick up all those capital extracts ? "

From an antiquarian passenger," he replied. " He
paid me to copy them out of his books, after he had
been here with me, and I took a copy for my own
book at the same time."

'make me a copy too, Quartermaster, by-and-by.
I am almost tempted to start a log-book of my own.
Where shall we go, Mrs Fonblanque ? "

Somewhere in the shade," she answered ; " the
walls of the old fort must be shady."

What did you think of Mnazilus and Chloe and
our duet yesterday ? " she asked suddenly, as she sat
down on a long Portuguese gun inside the fort, while
I stretched myself at full length on a rug on the
ground beside her.

I thought it pretty, and I thought you were very
good indeed in your part. You are a born actress,
Mrs Fonblanque."

"No, I am not," she answered. "I am too transparent
and impulsive to be a good actress. But the
duet was a pretty one, though I did not care to say
so before them all. One gets tired of duets in company,
and it is an absolute relief to be able to talk
to you now without having to take the Nun's feelings
and the Sheik's criticism into consideration.
Now that we are alone at last, what did you mean
the other day, Mr Hicks, by saying that our lives
had got mixed up in some inextricable manner, that

my eyes haunted yon, and that yon meant to end by
hating me intensely ? "

I looked into the liquid depths of the eyes that she
said I said haunted me. Perhaps she was right. But
there was just at that moment a soft, hazy, indefinite
expression in them I had never seen before.

"I don't think you are putting the case quite
fairly," I answered. " That wasn't what I said. But
isn't this a queer old fort ? Do you notice how it
is washed on three sides by the sea, and how that
rampart on the east is being gradually undermined ?
Those three battered old watch-towers must have
seen strange sights in their time. They remind me
of my first imaginings of Ctesiphon, for my imagination
really seems to be better now after the Quartermaster's
extracts. What grand old memories "

I hate old memories ! " cried Mrs Fonblanque.
They are like old family portraits — very distinct in
outline and terribly flat, sever mind old memories,
Mr Hicks, but do tell me why you wish to hate me
intensely."

Her hand was close beside me. It was a soft and
white and tiny hand, and looked sadly out of place
on the muzzle of a rust-eaten Portuguese gun. It
was all I could do to resist the temptation to kiss
it. Ah ! how eloquent one could be if one could
only always put one's thoughts into instant action !

I don't wish to hate you intensely," I said.
What I do hate are your immense wealth and my
immense poverty, your supreme indifference and my
hopeless state of humility. If we were face to face
on a raft in mid-ocean ; if we were sinking into the
sea together on some stormy, moonless, and starless
night "

Won't a desert island do ? " she asked, as a merry
mischievous look flashed for a second over her face.

"Yes, a real desert island, when there was not a
Quartermaster close to, and a steamer just behind usa
desert island where no help could possibly reach
us "

Well, if we were in any one of those three uncomfortable
positions ? "

I should perhaps be able to tell you how much I
hated you. That was all I meant to say."

Then the temptation grew too strong for me. I
had half lifted her hand to my lips when it suddenly
struck me that, as we were alone, this was an ungenerous
and unfair proceeding. So I reluctantly but
very tenderly replaced her hand on the muzzle of the
gun.

Mrs Fonblanque did not seem to follow my line of
thought. The necessity for outspokenness became
more evident than ever.

Life at the best is a bore," I continued. " It is a

series of regrets to most of us — a series of regrets and
follies and blunders. Even the wisest of us, they say,
make at least one fatal mistake."

"And it is generally on the wedding-day, eh, Mr
Hicks ? That puts you out of court. "S^^iat do you
know of life's blunders and mistakes ? I am fettered
by too much money now ; my golden shackles clank
as I go. You are in the hands of your uncle. There
is a fate of some sort behind everybody, incessantly
at work if you let it, and for ever pulling the strings.
Good easy people give in at the first tug, and imagine
that they have lost everything or won everything —
which is, perhaps, worse. But neither you nor I were
meant to be fatalists. We hold our lives in our hands.
We have a certain amount of individuality about us.
Putting aside my money-bags on the one hand, and
your uncle on the other, we can generally do as we
please."

Can anybody do as he pleases ? I doubt it," said
I, as I took Mrs Fonblanque's little hand once more
in mine. The moment, however, that I took her hand
the Quartermaster stood before us, touching his cap,
and informing us very respectfully that, unless we
started at once, the steamer could not get away that
evening.

I don't mean her to go away this evening," said
Mrs Fonblanque. " Mr Hicks and I wish to have a

look at Bunder Abbas in the morning. Be good
enough to get the boat ready for us, and we will
come down when we are sufficiently rested. Mr
Hicks, you were saying," she continued, as the
Quartermaster disappeared, " that "

It was no good. The spell was broken, and our
new duet completely ruined. The " third party " had
appeared on the scene, and from the time of the
serpent onwards the third party has been the curse
of humanity.

For want of something better to say, I laid this profoundly
original observation before Mrs Fonblanque.
She laughed a little, but she rose.

I told you one day," she said, as she stood before
me putting on her gloves, " that you were never quite
in earnest. I seem to have developed an unsuspected
vein of humour in your character. Look at my watch,
Mr Hicks. I had no idea it was so late. I think we
may as well follow the Quartermaster down to the
boat."

I went after her very reluctantly. For a moment
I thought she was cross, but she was only amused.

Your imagination is all right again now," she continued
pleasantly, as she took my arm, "and with
humour and imagination an artist ought to be able
to accomplish something. I should certainly never
have thought of that dear, honest old creature as a

VOL. II. C

serpent. Surely you were only painting his portrait
because he was so transparent. He required no preliminary
study, you know. He was always natural,
never flippant. Now he is a snake. We must all
be serpents to please you. You won't paint my
portrait, you say. Wait a little while until I proclaim
myself a Lamia. A Lamia, Mr Hicks! Now
will you paint my portrait ? "

I will try," I answered, humbly. " I will do any
mortal thing you please."

"Thank you," she said, as I assisted her over a
great boulder of rock-salt. " But I don't particularly
want to be pleased. Well, well, you may begin, if
you like, by painting a picture — of my hand."

I will begin tomorrow," I replied. " Chiromancy
is fashionable just now. A hand like yours would
look wonderfully pretty on a dark panel, and would
open up a wide field for speculation and study."

I hate being studied, Mr Hicks. I have told you
so before. For a clever man, you repeat your blunders
in a most extraordinary way. Let us get into the
boat as soon as we can. I don't think I shall ever
be able to bring myself to allow you to paint either
myself or my hand."

"Come now, Mrs Fonblanque. Don't be selfish.
You might, at any rate, allow me to have as much
of you as I can carry off on a panel."

"Perhaps I will some day," she said, taking her
seat in the boat. " I see the Quartermaster's presence
has given you fresh confidence already."

We had a strong wind and a racing tide with us :
we went along merrily before them, and we reached
the steamer a few minutes only after the flags had
been hauled down for sunset.

The Captain was leaning over the side, and, contrary
to our expectations, his face wore its usual good-natured
expression.

Well, it is past sundown, and you haven't left
us," cried Mrs Fonblanque, looking up.

Sorry I couldn't ; sorry to disoblige you, Mrs Fons
But a lot of wool was offering, and I shan't
get away till noon tomorrow."

Of Bunder Abbas, I am ashamed to say, I remember
very little. A double belt of mountains,
some fifteen miles off, and 8000 or 9000 feet high,
shuts it in from Persia, and beyond their barren
rocky ridges we could just catch a glimpse of a huge
peak, vague and misty and snow-covered. But for
this isolation. Bunder Abbas would be by far the
most important port in the Gulf. As it is, the trade
is increasing, owing mainly to the enterprise of Indian
Banians, for there is not a single European on shore.
The sailors and boatmen live chiefly on fish, and are
big sturdy fellows, with great legs, and brawny chests,

and muscles like knotted ropes. At Bunder Abbas
the finest bungalow in the world are built, and some
of them are as much as 800 tons burden. They are
solid ships, well manned and well found, and, with
their elaborately carved sterns, they reminded me,
for all the world, of the old war-ships in Froissart's
Chronicles.' They go as far as Calcutta, Zanzibar,
Mozambique, and the Mauritius, and they need to be
stout and strong if they ever mean to come back
again. When the Gulf shemal blows down past
Bunder Abbas it is a dangerous task to approach
the coast.

The open space in front of the beach was even at
this early hour alive with people — negroes and Turcomans,
Persians, Armenians and Beloochees, Arabs
and Catches. Except perhaps at Marseilles, I had
never seen such a queer mosaic of costumes. The
town was, in a degree, like the people. Arab houses
and Persian houses stood side by side; yellow mud
and grey limestone were equally effective and equally
disagreeable. But all the houses alike were furnished
with either a flat roof or an open belvedere, in which
their inmates slept by night. These were now occupied
by women in heavy, pointed, thick white veils,
that fell from their eyes like an old man's beard, almost
down to the waist. They strolled languidly up and
down, or leant sleepily over the balustrades trying

to catch all they could of the fresh morning air. With
the exception of a few dusty date-trees bowing their
old heads towards the mountains and away from the
sea, there was no sign of anything green ; and between
them and the mountains there lay a ribbed ocean of
parched-up sand, arid and naked, and almost black
with the heat. All the Gulf towns are much alike.
The bazaars are equally narrow and dirty. The shelf-like
shops are full of cheap rubbish from Europe,
prints and piece-goods, boxes of matches and cakes of
soap, needles and thread, sweet-stuffs, sham jewellery,
glass beads, and so on. It would, however, be impossible
to mistake one Gulf town for another.

The English factory at Bunder Abbas lies in ruins.
The old Dutch factory, a fine arcaded building, is now
the Sheik's palace, and directly in front of it stands
the great Custom-house.

Of course we wanted carpets, and this was the
place to get them, and the head of the Custom-house
the chief dealer. He and Mrs Fonblanque's obliging
friend sat side by side as the carpets were unrolled,
and when he gave a nod of approval they solemnly
clasped hands beneath each other's sleeves. The
Sheik explained the process to me. They were talking
in a language of signs that is common to all
traders in Western Asia and Eastern Africa, and that
not only does away with all difficulties of language,

but enables the principals to keep the terms of their
bargain from the idlers who infest every oriental
bazaar. To grasp the first finger means one, to press
it once means ten, to press it twice a hundred. To
grasp the first two fingers means two, to press them
once twenty, to press them twice two hundred, and soon
with the different fingers or a combination of them,
while the finger-joints show the fractions. This was
an interesting revelation to me, but the process was
tedious, and the heat already almost unbearable.

At half-past eight we left the Custom-house, quite
ready to believe all the Quartermaster had told us the
day before about the air of Goombron being on fire,
and all about the mortal vapours that continually
exhale from the bowels of the earth.

It was a relief to get on board the hulk, an old
dismantled steamer, to which our vessel was firmly
lashed, so as to be able to take in cargo and put it
out, in spite of the social. She was in charge of an
old Cumberland man, who had once been an officer in
the Company's service. Now that his wife was dead,
he led, he told us, the happiest life in the world.
The experiences of a man who lives year after year
within reach and within sight of a populous city were
very quaint and entertaining. Eousseau found solitude
more charming than any of his mistresses.
Thoreau thought that no companion could possibly

be SO companionable as solitude. Here was a fairfield
for inquiry if ever there was one. A man of
taste (especially in carpets, of wdiicli lie was a perfect
connoisseur), the officer in charge of the hulk was
nevertheless perfectly happy in being anchored alone
out here, like a barnacle to a rock.

You must lead rather a Robinson Crusoe sort of
life," I said to him when he let me have a couple of
carpets at cost-price.

"Well, perhaps I do," he answered. "But every
Englishman, like his country, is an island at heart.
I have sailed the seas in my time, and been buffeted
about a bit. But now that my old wife is dead, I
have nothing to wish for and nothing to desire."

His experiences would have entertained my uncle
vastly; for my uncle, like all very sociable men, looks
forward to a time of complete isolation. I am sorry
to say that I forgot nearly all that the man on the hulk
told me, in thinking how I could get back into Mrs
Fonblanque's good books. She was perhaps more
civil to me than she ever had been, but when I said
something about an armed neutrality, she gave me a
look of somewhat too ready intelligence.

Chapter Xxii.

"Poet wine for breakfast, sir, and port wine for
dinner, — a real Goanese port, if you can get it. That,
I think, will pull you up."

It would have pulled me up pretty sharp, I expect.
I stared at the speaker, and in the next minute or
two he gave me his whole family history, from the
time he left his little sister sobbing her heart out
among the palm-trees on the beach. He was a dusky,
vague sort of individual, and I had taken him for the
purser or steward. The liquor served at table was —
well, not particularly good, and I was trying to find
out if there were any wholesome wines on board. He
thought I was asking him for a tonic ; and he turned
out to be the ship's doctor. He was not in the least
offended when I explained my mistake, and Captain
Forbes, who happened to pass by at the moment,
roared with laughter.

"He's not the steward," he said, still laughing.
He's only the ship's doctor — that is, he has an apothecary's

certificate of some sort. I always take good
care to doctor my own crew. But we must have a
certified man to sign the bills of health, so as to get
us out of quarantine in those wretched Turkish ports
as soon as possible. Port wine for breakfast ! Gosport
if you can get it ! Goa port ! Goa poison !
Ha ! ha ! ha I That's his invariable prescription, and
he always takes it himself, I'll be bound, when he
can ! "

The Captain's hilarity seemed to please the doctor,
who obviously belonged to that common type of men
who like nothing less than being ignored. He
followed me on to the quarter-deck to tell me his
whole story. He came, he said, as wee went up the
companion, from the sunny land of Paul and Virginia,
and, indeed, Virginia was his great-great-aunt.

I thought you were going to copy my hand on a
panel to-day," said Mrs Fonblanque, as my shadow
and I went forward.

"So I was," I replied; "but the doctor says that
Virginia was his great-great-aunt, and I am busy
now in trying to realise her features from his. This
would be a splendid study in heredity if one had time
for it."

"Yes. Only you haven't time for it just now," said
Mrs Fonblanque, shortly. "To-day is mine. Give
tomorrow to the doctor,"

"The steward wants you down below," said the
Quartermaster, rather roughly nudging the apothecary.
" He's an awful man," continued the Quartermaster
apologetically, after the doctor had slipped
away. " The lies he'll tell ; the presents he'll give
you, if you care for promises ; and the gratitude he'll
expect for nothing ! I told you the steward wanted
you!"

The doctor was again at my elbow with a worn
copy of the 'Lusiad' in his hands.

"He wants to teach you Portuguese," said the
Quartermaster. " He has tried the same game on
with all of us. We must all learn Portuguese, to see
what a grandee he might have been had he lived three
hundred years ago."

"I could teach you to read Portuguese before we
reach Bombay," urged the doctor, quite unruffled by
this rather personal criticism.

He was a mean-looking man at the best. But the
thoughts of the grand old times lent a new light to
his eyes, and a look almost of dignity to his weak and
feeble countenance. Mrs Fonblanque began to be interested
in him.

"You have had a hard life, doctor, I can see," she
said pleasantly, " and you have never had a chance ? "

Never a one," he replied, solemnly. " Mauritius,
Mozambique, Goa, Maun, and Diu, sailing-ships

and steamers, and everywhere the butt of the sailors 1
But two or three hundred years ago everything was
ours — every ruined fort you pass here, and every dismantled
gun, was manned by men like me ! "

"And that's why Portugal lost them all," interrupted
the Quartermaster. " The steward has been calling
you for the last ten minutes."

The doctor's enthusiasm evaporated directly Mrs
Fonblanque turned away. He put his ' Lusiad ' under
his arm hopelessly and retired. The Quartermaster
explained that the doctor had a bee in his bonnet.

"He is kept to sign quarantine papers," he said;
but the Captain doesn't allow him to annoy the passengers,
and he is forbidden the quarter-deck." Then
the Quartermaster touched his cap to Mrs Fonblanque,
and trusted she would forgive his interference.

Of course, of course," said Mrs Fonblanque. " You
treat the doctor just as he ought to be treated. I only
wish I could put you in charge of Mr Hicks. He is
always mixing himself up with the most extraordinary
people. Talk of heredity, Mr Hicks, if it pleases you,
but don't tell me that we are always improving and
developing into a higher form. From the mollusc toto
— well, almost to the angel, if you like ; but then
back again from the angel almost to the mollusc.
With the pendulum swinging backwards and forwards
along the ages, you and I are lucky if we go through

life as ordinary mortals of a good average type. Now,
if you please, sir, we will set to work."

In permitting me to paint her hand on a panel, Mrs
Fonblanque might or might not have been aware that
the hands in any portrait are universally accepted asa
crucial test of artistic skill. She had, too, rendered
the task a trifle more difficult than it seemed at first,
by pulling all her rings off. Her hand might really
have been a study from the nude so far as the accessories
went. However, I painted away as steadily as
I could ; and as an artist is always supposed to be
absorbed in his work, I felt quite justified in saying
nothing.

"That poor man," said Mrs Fonblanque at last,
has a pathetic tipsy sort of resemblance to Don
Quixote. But the Quartermaster is right. It would
be cruel to encourage him. He is essentially weak ;
and to be candid, I always felt that his 
rather overdue her part. It is, of course, a
delightful idol ; and as a girl, I thought Paul a sort
of model hero. Poor Paul ! I daresay he was well
out of it after all, if she was always thinking how she
looked when she was a mere chit. Take my word for
it, she would have been perpetually nagging at him
afterwards."

Please keep your hand still, Mrs Fonblanque," I
said. " Thank you ; that's it. I have always thought

Virginia delightful ; and, honestly, I didn't think much
of Paul. I can understand two women in the same
drawing-room disliking each other heartily. But I
can scarcely understand your disliking a very pretty
and very pure creation of M. Bernardin de St
Pierre, who was buried, poor man, nearly a hundred
years ago."

Oh," said Mrs Ponblanque, " you have said precisely
what I expected you to say. You will never
succeed in art or anything else, because you love all
your own comforts so well that you don't care to stand
for a moment in anybody else's shoes. You loom so
large in your own estimation that you can see nobody
but yourself. That very feeble and garrulous doctor
is tarred with the same brush, and ten to one his
great-great-aunt would have grown to be exactly
like him. Virginia, as far as I remember the story,
drowned herself before her lover's eyes, and almost
drowned her lover, because she would not be saved
unless she could be saved en franche tenue — that is,
in all the fine new things she had just brought out
from Europe. You can hardly call that practical,
Mr Hicks. Her great-great-nephew is essentially
not practical; and as for you, sir, you are, I fancy,
the most unpractical man I ever encountered."

Oh, never mind me," I said ; " never mind Virginia.
Look at the panel."

It is really growing into a very pretty little
picture."

Your hand," I answered, " and a little bit of your
arm, will be coming through folds of heavy crimson
curtains. There will be a queer old blue Japanese
vase full of yellow roses on a grey-marble table, and
there will be a look of indecision about your hand
as you try to choose a rosebud for somebody outside.
Behind the vase there will be a Damascus sword, inlaid
with gold, lying by its embroidered scabbard."

"Well, if you are not practical, you have a fine
imagination to-day," said Mrs Fonblanque. "But
won't all those fine accessories be rather too much
for that poor commonplace little hand on your
panel ? It looks as if it were going to fly off at a
tangent on some spiritualistic adventures of its own."

No, no," I said. " It's a very pretty little hand,
if you please, and a very determined little hand, with
too sturdy a will of its own to indulge in vagaries of
any kind."

"I don't know that," said Mrs Fonblanque, with
just a suspicion of a sigh.

Oh, I know," I answered. " Chiromancy happens
to be one of my many hobbies. The hand, as some
Frenchman says, is the epitome of the man ; much
more so, then, of the woman. Lend me your hand
for a moment, Mrs Fonblanque."

I won't have my fortune told," she said decisively,
as, half drawing back, she allowed me to take it.

No ? " I continued, colouring a little, I fancied, as
I spoke. " Sir Eager de Coverley said that one of
his ancestors was the first man to make love by
squeezing the hand."

Poor old goose ! " she replied, laughing. " That's
just the kind of speech I should have expected your
uncle to make. They probably have the same ancestor
in Adam "

And — Eve," I whispered, lifting her hand respectfully
and giving it very gently the kiss that had been
trembling on my lips for four-and-twenty hours.

Mr Hicks ! " she exclaimed, snatching her hand
from mine, and trying to hide it in her gown. " Mr

Hicks ! I will never, never, never Oh, Mr

Hicks ! Hush ! "

Mr Hicks," said a deep bass voice, " what are you
doing?"

I turned round, and saw the Sheik intent on my
panel.

You see what I am doing," I answered, as coolly
as I could under the circumstances. " I am painting
Mrs Fonblanque's hand."

Yes, I see that," he said gravely, " and I daresay
that if you have leisure enough you will contrive to
paint a very fascinating picture. You laughed at

my scruples the other day about painting. Perhaps
mahomet was right after all. He generally was right.
We have good artists amongst us, too. The beauty
and elegance of their geometrical figures and arabesques
are simply unapproachable. Art, however,
must have a limit, and I think Mahomet knew whereto
draw the line. At all events, I should never allow
any artist to paint the hands of Fatima, Zuleika, or
Stour Mahal."

Sit down, Sheik," said Mrs Fonblanque, actually
rising to drag up a long chair, and depositing him, I
was glad to see, at a safe distance. "Very likely
Mahomet was right. Art is wearisome, especially to
the model."

And the artist," I cried, " doesn't he suffer ? "

Mrs Fonblanque turned aside with a look of such
supreme indifference that the Sheik actually smiled
through his white beard. She had told him ten thousand
times more in this simple gesture than he could
possibly have seen. But he was generally as blind as a
bat, poor man, and he was still so intent on the panel
that I began to feel certain he had seen nothing.

Mahomet was very pitiful," he said, " and, take my
word for it, he foresaw the artist. Art is one thins ;
the artist is another. I used to meet artists by the
dozen when I was in London. They wore long hair
like our clay-bedaubed holy men; like them they

lived on alms ; and they were always going to paint a
big picture. Oh, that big picture ! It generally was
announced to you by a Miss Tompkins or a Mrs Jones,
He is just going to begin his big picture.' You went
to his studio, and found nothing there but a smell of
stale tobacco."

The Sheik is trying to make fun of you," said Mrs
Fonblanque.

I think he is," I answered, " but I don't care two
straws for that."

You ought to care though, Mr Hicks, and you
certainly shouldn't allow yourself to be made fun of."

It is you who make me a fool," I cried as impressively
as I could, in a speech that was not intended
for the Sheik's ears.

"Yes, perhaps to-day," she said quietly; "and tomorrow
I daresay it will be Priscilla, or anybody else
of my unfortunate sex."

'don't talk like that," I cried. "Think of to-day,
and say you forgive me."

I really don't see how I can forgive you, Mr Hicks.
I should never have spoken to you again but for that
stupid old Sheik's interference. But are you sorry ? "

I caught up the panel with her little hand on it.

"I will pitch it overboard if you ]ike, Mrs Fons
I said very quietly, " and have done with it
for good and all."

VOL. IL D

"'No, no, don't do that. I should like to see the
accessories you mentioned."

I held it over the taffrail. " Do you forgive ? "

I forget . . . There, put it back on your easel.
You are taking a long time in lighting your pipe,
Sheik. It seems to be properly kindled now, and now
we had all of us better settle down to a long talk
about art and anything else that turns up. If there
are two brothers, why should one man be an artist, a
creator, a translator of wonderful dreams into the
most vivid forms, while the other is only just able to
add up a column of figures more or less accurately ? "

"Xo one," I said, after waiting for the Sheik to
speak, " can ever translate his dreams, so as to show
them to others as he really sees them. But he enjoys
them immensely himself, as he ' sits down in poverty,'
as Browning says, ' and writes and paints in pity for
the rich.' But you can't paint anything, or describe it,
as you see it ; you can't paint, with your eyes. It is a
long way from the eye through the arm to the pencil ;
and how much is lost on the road ! "

I can see that," said the Sheik, comfortably pulling
away at his hubble-bubble. " Then why not leave art
alone, and enjoy yourself while you may ? "

"Men," rejoined Mrs Fonblanque, laughing, "are
such queer creatures. Sheik, that some of them can't
leave art alone; and Mr Hicks is, I daresay, one of

these. You remember, Mr Hicks, what that unhealthy
French poet, Baudelaire, said about minds of a certain
order being only able to breathe in art or literature.
I am afraid. Sheik, that Mr Hicks has a mind of that
sort."

I wish you and the Sheik would discuss my order
of mind in my absence," I said, rather testily. " You
are quite wrong, Mrs Fonblanque ; and Baudelaire is
not an authority. Art and literature and science are
one and the same thing, and some day we shall all
know it."

Some day ! " said Mrs Fonblanque, scornfully. " I
like that, in the middle of an argument. I don't see
why we should wait until art and letters and science
come together to prove that Mr Hicks is infallible.
Do you. Sheik ? But explain what you mean, sir."

She was heartless, far more heartless than I thought
her ten minutes back. When I kissed her hand so
tenderly, I imagined for a moment that I had crossed
the Rubicon ; and now I was asked to give an explanation
that no encyclopaedia has ever yet afforded ! She
and the Sheik were both sitting placidly before me,
willing, but not over-eager, to ]hear what I had to say.
The illusion was complete. But which was the illusion ?
Mrs Fonblanque as she sat there now, frank and cool
and completely at her ease ; or Mrs Fonblanque with
flushed cheeks, and tremulous lips, and a new light

LIBRARY

uf^ivERsmr OF illinois

altogether in her strange grey eyes, as she had torn
her hand from mine and hidden it in her gown ?

Don't look so melancholy over it," said Mrs Fons
"Solve the problem of the future for us,
and then we can talk about something else."

The Sheik, too, was looking curiously at me. I had
to say something.

It has been the dream of many men," I said, " that
all art, and all learning, and all knowledge will some
day be one. Then you will know how it is that the
picture and the poem, the statue and the sonata, strike
exactly the same key-note."

It is a pretty idea, Mr Hicks ; but when you know
all you want to know, shall I be able to paint pictures
like you, or you be able to sing as I can ? "

No, hardly that," I answered. " But all egotism
and individuality will disappear. The strangest things
will seem the most natural. There will be no more
mysteries. We shall all be what we were formerly,
part and parcel of the one mighty soul with which
nature is instinct. I shall not be able to sing as
you can, but my pictures will exactly reproduce your
songs, and your songs my pictures. And the chemist,
Mrs Fonblanque, in some new colour, or some exquisite
perfume, or some new force of nature suddenly
let loose, will combine them both. The past will bethe
present, and the present the future, and in death

we shall reach the nirvana of all our wishes. We
shall be once more absorbed into the mighty soul of
nature from which we came."

The Sheik is asleep already," said Mrs Fonblanque,
softly. '' Tell me in a whisper how all this can be
accomplished ? "

"By love, and love only," I replied. "Love and
art are the same. You and I stumble as we walk ;
but what are we ? Love goes on throbbing from Eve's
bosom in sweet pulsations to the end of time. You
and I disappear, but love and art remain."

Thank you, mr Hicks," she said, severely. " You
have tauoiit me a lesson. Did you ever feel that you
despised yourself thoroughly ? "

Yes," I answered promptly. " I had that feeling
yesterday."

"Well, I have it to-day. Your rudeness offended
me mortally, and I was weak enough to say I would
forget. You began to talk about art, and then you
talk about what you call love. Do you think that
all women are puppets, as your ally the Sheik does ;
or that your art, as you term it, is the equivalent of
any woman's true affection ? You have given me a
lesson in art, sir, and you have given me a lesson
also in the utter selfishness of your sex."

Then she rose and quietly passed away.

Had I crossed the Rubicon ? Had I irrevocably

committed myself ? Had I offended her ? Undoubtedly
I had. "Was she intensely vexed ? And
did I really care for her displeasure ? There I was
not quite so sure. I leant over the side of the ship
trying to puzzle out these vexed questions. Am I
an impostor or not ? This is the personal and very
irritating form my thoughts always take when my
thoughts and I sit down together. There was a good
deal to say on both sides ; and I was not over-civil
to the Sheik when he woke up suddenly and asked
for Mrs Fonblanque.

"Where is Mrs Fonblanque ? " he said, rubbing his
eyes, "and when are you going to finish the picture
on the panel ? "

"Not at all," I replied curtly, and then I carried
the unfortunate panel down below.

It is, however, the unexpected that always happens ;
and before our good ship had steamed very many miles
more, I was busily at work again on the panel, and
Mrs Fonblanque was again enticing us all to discuss
her favourite theme of men and women. She could
evidently keep her word. The past had gone completely.
She had the feminine faculty of forgetfulness
in an unusually marked degree.

Our legislators, my dear," she continued to the
Nun, " have always treated us in precisely the same
way. When I was a girl I dreamt, as I daresay all

girls do, that I was going to be the ideal woman, and
I turned over all the books I could find to see how
the ideal woman should educate herself. I read all
the wisest men have written in their wildest dreams of
fancy. Soon I saw that there was no ideal woman, and
that even the wisest men only want a creature half
plaything, half drudge, and wholly subordinate. All
these clever men, my dear, had only one type among
them, and they must have copied it deliberately, poor
things, one from the other."

What kind of men do you mean ? " I asked.
"Poets?"

Neo ; statesmen. Go through all the ideal commonwealths
and see how we are treated ideally. You
remember how Lycurgus thought that girls should be
educated at Sparta ? "

No, I don't," said the Nun.

Then I can't possibly explain it to you. But Plato
in his ' Republic,' More in his ' Utopia,' and Bacon in
his ' New Atlantis,' all say just the same thing. You
emotional people, you painters and poets, are bad
enough, Mr Hicks ; but heaven help any girl who falls
into the hands of a philosopher ! "

"Well, I don't know," I replied. "I don't always
agree with your favourite philosopher, Rousseau. His
life was against him. But his words on your particular
subject are the wisest I remember."

Well, what are they ? "

I will try and recollect. ' Men and women,' he
said, ' are made for one another. But their mutual
dependence is not equal. Men depend on women
for love. "Women depend on men not for love only
but for material support. AYe could do without them.
They could not do without us.' "

Did you ever hear anything so atrocious ? "
cried Mrs Fonblanque. " What material support
have you men ever afforded to Sister Patricia or
to me?"

You happen to be two very exceptional cases."

"We happen to be half the passengers onboard."


"Yes, no doubt, but by sheer accident. Sister
Patricia by her vows, and you by your wealth, stand
apart from the others. I must decline to discuss either
of you as types."

You mean that we are annexed ? "

I beg your pardon, I mean nothing of the sort. I
was thinking of what you yourself said the other day
about being doubly hampered. Your wealth puts you
out of the ordinary running "

Does it really ? How nice of you to talk of me as
if I ever wished to be in it. Well, never mind ; go on
with Rousseau, Mr Hicks. He cannot possibly be
more ill-natured than you are."

He says that the manners of men, their passions,
their tastes, their pleasures, their happiness itself, all
depend on the other sex."

That is exactly what I told you the other day," cried
Mrs Fonblanque.

Yes ; but he goes on to add, that for this very
reason women should be specially educated to please
men, to be useful to them, to be loved by them, to
nurse and teach them when they are small, to take
care of them when they are big, to advise them and
console them, and render their lives happy and
pleasant."

That's just what Mahomet said ages before,"
observed the Sheik, approvingly.

"They are both against us. Shall we contest it
point by point, my dear ? "

No, no," said the Nun. " I think that is the very
training a girl should have, so as to make somebody's
life happy and pleasant. But how did you educate
yourself, Mrs Fonblanque, when you found out that all
the philosophers were wrong ? "

Mrs Fonblanque laughed a little. "I thought I
might be wrong too, so I did not educate myself
at all. I let myself drift, and that is why I am
sitting here this afternoon to be lectured by Mr
Hicks."

This required a gentle repartee.

Cowley," I said, smiling, " was good enough to call
you one of Nature's agreeable blunders."

Then he was not quite so gallant as Burns or
Lessing, who called us Nature's masterpiece. But
now, turn your chair quickly round, ]mr Hicks. What
do you think of that for the Gulf ? "

I am seldom profoundly impressed, but I had certainly
never seen anything like this. We were steaming
rapidly, as I turned, right into a huge wall of
precipitous volcanic rocks. Suddenly we rounded the
point, and glided smoothly into a quiet little cove,
surrounded on its three sides by towering black hills
and rugged mountains. The nearest hills and crags
and peaks to the right and left, looking each one of
them like an iron-bound fortress, dropped sheer and
bluff to the water's edge. At either extremity a strong
fortress scowled fiercely down upon us, and a number
of smaller forts and watch-towers and galleries seemed
to connect the two in a semicircle behind. The shore
was low and open for a little way in front, and there,
between the black rocks and the blue sea, nestled a
town of white flat-roofed houses.

We anchored within a cable's length of the Sultan's
palace, with his blood-red flag still streaming over it.
There was not a tree or shrub to be seen. But the
white houses, the turreted forts, the deep blue sea,

and the quaint craft with which the little cove was
half filled, contrasted strangely with the encircling
masses of dark rock all around, and a sky that was,
for a moment before the sun sank, flooded with gold
and crimson. To enjoy the first view of Muscat properly,
you should come straight upon it as we did,
from a tedious sea voyage along the arid coast of
Persia, and you should enter the harbour exactly as
the sun is goings down. In another moment the sunset
guns were thundering and reverberating among
the rocks, and then all was still, except when a deep
voice from a mosque-tower here and there summoned
the faithful to prayers.

Does it remind you of Gibraltar ? " asked Mrs
Fonblanque.

"In a manner. But it is far too oriental. It is
medieval too, and warlike. You expect every moment
to hear martial music and the clang of steel
and brass, and to see bands of armed men marching
slowly down the innumerable steps. It is more like
a drop-scene that an artist may dream of but never
paint."

"Yes," replied Mrs Fonblanque. "How fantastically
the great hills of solid rock seem to have been
thrown about, as if from the hands of some tremendous
giant."

"That's very much what the Arabs say," said the
Captain, as he joined us, — "A\^ien Allah finished the
world, he threw the chris down here."

"That's an old story," I replied. "They say the
same thing at Linton."

And at Chudderghat," said Mrs Fonblanque.

Chapter Xxiii.

Captain Forbes and I were up betimes. Muscat was,
he said, the most interesting port on his run, and he
wished to show me its lions himself. Certainly it was
very picturesque in the fresh clear light of early
dawn. The beach was covered with people, and in a
deep pool under the shadow of a frowning rock to our
left, the negro population were taking their morning
bath, shouting, laughing, singing, and swimming about
as only negroes can. The harbour was already alive
with boats laden with fish and fruit. The fruit here
is excellent and abundant. There are melons and
water-melons, grapes, pomegranates, plantains, mangoes,
oranges and lemons, and great sweet limes — the size
of a big turnip — that always taste as if they were
iced. As for fish, the harbour was thick with them.
Our men knocked them over with their oars as they
rowed us to shore. "With a bucket you might have
picked up enough to give a breakfast to a large family.
It is little wonder, then, that the negroes here are

lazy ; and Muscat, like Zanzibar, is essentially a negro
town. The trade, however, Captain Forbes explained
to me, is carried on by Banians from Porebimder,
Cutch, and Bombay. They lead their own lives,
protect their own cows, burn their dead, and enjoy
all their own customs. One of these customs is, by
the way, rather curious. When they fail in trade, as
they often do, they have to sit outside their houses,
with a candle burning on a little table in front, to
show, I suppose, that it is all night with them just
then. So Ions; as the candle burns, their local creditors
are free to revile them as only Asiatics can.

You laugh," said the skipper, as he told me this.
When you reach India you will find it to be the invariable
custom there too. The table is not always
outside. The reviling is more or less bitter. The
candle is longer or shorter. But when the candle has
once expired, everybody is able to start again."

And then ? " I asked.

The Banians, as a rule, make considerable fortunes,
which they carry home to spend in India. But, as
with all exiles, even Anglo-Indians, their prosperity
has its drawback. They never bring their wives here.
They marry when they are children, and are started
off forthwith to seek their fortunes in Muscat or Zanzibar
or the Mozambique, and when they come back,
sleek and fat and wealthy, their wives are old women,

and they adopt an heir. "Wealth is not everything,
Mr Hicks."

The agent was not yet visible, so we strolled through
the town. The forts were not nearly so formidable as
they looked from the sea. They had not been repaired
for a century ; their walls were crumbling ; their guns
were all rust-eaten, and many of them dismounted.
The soldiers on guard were the quaintest body of men
I had ever come across. They were chiefly Beloochees
and Sidi-boys, with a few Curds and Persians, adventurous
mercenaries of the lowest and least enterprising
type, recruited from far and near, from every district
except Oman itself. This, the skipper said, was natural
enough. The men we saw were the only paid
troops, and not more than fifteen hundred strong all
told ; but on an emergency every one of the Sultan's
Arab subjects is bound to serve — and they are men of
a very different stamp. The troops who garrisoned
the forts were as beggarly and ill-dressed a set of
scarecrows as the country bumpkins with whom Falstaff
would not march through Coventry. But, for all
that, they were extremely picturesque, and their arms,
the remnants of innumerable fights and onslaughts
and piratical sallies, would have delighted the heart of
any good old antiquary like my uncle. They carried
long guns with matchlocks and flint locks (some of them
with rests), old Brown Blesses, pistols as heavy as small

fowling-pieces, Bedouin spears, and as many swords
and daggers as their tattered belts could hold. The
number of weapons any man could boast seemed to
be a kind of brevet rank, inherited from the family
arsenal; and there was one old negro who wore as
many lethal weapons round his portly form as ever
decorated the main-mast of a pirate schooner in the
buccaneering days. The general effect, however, was
not warlike, and somehow or another made me think
of Ardour Street.

The bazaars of Muscat were well worth seeing.
They were so narrow that no horses and no beasts
of burden but the Sultan's were allowed to enter the
town. They were very dark, being all covered in with
a roof of matting plastered with mud. The arms
bazaar was curious ; elsewhere the goods were much
the same as we had seen before. But the crowd was
really picturesque. There were Bedouins from the
desert, at once impassible and disdainful, tall and
graceful, with high - bred features. They strode
through the others, in their burnouses of camel-hair,
as if they knew nothing of them. But they took their
precautions nevertheless, for they were all armed, as
if for active service, with ponderous inlaid guns, with
silver-handled pistols, and silver-mounted swords and
daggers, and little round shields of rhinoceros-hide.
Then there were the city Arabs in flowing white robes,

and with brightly coloured handkerchiefs thrown
loosely over their thick black curls. There were
negroes grimacing and gesticulating — an important
element of this noisy bustling crowd — soldiers and
sailors and fishermen, and a sprinkling of women
doing their household marketing for the day. The
women here seemed to enjoy an unusual amount of
liberty, and as a veil they wore nothing more thana
black band across the eyes, much like the masks
at our masked balls in Europe. They were disguised,
but you could see their faces, and their loose flowing
robes showed off the outlines of their fine figures very
prettily.

By this time we thought the agent would be tired
of his bed, and we found him ready to receive us at
chota hazri or first breakfast. He was an extremely
hospitable and agreeable man, and when he learnt
from Captain Forbes that I was supposed to be something
of an artist and fond of scenery, he sent straightway
off' to the Sultan's palace to borrow or order Arab
horses.

We cannot keep horses here," he said. " On the
other hand, the Sultan has a magnificent stud, and ashe
never rides himself, he makes everybody free of his
stables. You will get such a mount as you never
dreamt of. Eh, Captain Forbes ? "

Captain Forbes agreed, and then proceeded to try

VOL. II. E

the malwa, and liked it much. This pleased our host.
I tried it too, cautiously, and found it exquisite, and
said so.

"That happens to be the best lialwa!' said the
agent, "that I have ever tasted. It is made by a
tribe who live far inland, and seldom come to Muscat.
It is our speciality here, just as toffee is at Everton,
and it goes all over the East."

"It is very good," I said, taking a little more.
"What is it made of?"

Of nothing but sugar and ghee and the gluten
of wheat. The secret is in mixing the ingredients,
and every tribe have their own brand. Xow let us
start for the stables."

Captain Forbes was delighted.

I owe this to you," he said, confidentially. " I
have never had a chance of getting into the Sultan's
stables before. Now we shall see some real Listened
horses "

I thought of their tails ; but as he stopped suddenly,
I kept silent.

"We walked two or three hundred yards through the
narrow streets, and then our host suddenly gave a
loud knock with his brass-mounted riding-whip at
the wicket of a great door studded with wonderful
iron nails. The door rolled back at his impetuous
summons, and we entered the courtyard of what was,

it seems, the Sultan's palace. On one side the entrance,
in an enormous iron-barred cage, a magnificent
lion growled at us as we passed. There were other
caged beasts farther on before we came to the royal
stables, where Captain Forbes went into raptures over
a dozen or so of pure indeed horses.

stow, at last, I can show you a Xejed horse," he
cried. " Xow, sir, as you look round, was my description
overdrawn ? "

They were beautiful creatures, certainly, but badly
cared for. We were asked to choose our own mounts,
and then we started, with half-a-dozen of the Sultan's
ragged footmen running in front of us to clear the
way, by hitting out to right and left. In eight or ten
minutes wee were clear of the town altogether.

There are, it seems, three gates. Passing through
the " Eastern Gate," where a number of soldiers were
gambling, grumbling, smoking, or sleeping, we reached
a squalid suburb of negro huts and shanties ; and
then, looking back, we saw that on the land side
Muscat was completely shut in by a strong, well-kept
stone wall, fourteen feet in height, with crumbHnf^
watch-towers dotted all over it. Looking forward, we
saw nothing but rocks and stones and rugged mountains.
We rode slowly and painfully up the stony
pathway through the valley of rocks in front, and
looked with some interest at the tall watch-towers

that here and there commanded the view beyond.
At lat we came to a tunnel cut out of the solid rock.
Its great double gates stood ajar. The men or guard
were sleeping, smoking, grumbling, and gambling as
before. The tunnel was dank and damp and gloomy,
and our horses, in spite of the clatter they made,
trembled a little as they went through it. But once
on the other side, the scenery was entirely changed.
There were, to be sure, black and grey mountains all
around, but right in front of us the road ran through a
rich green garden-land, covered with maize and sugarcane
and barley and cloves, with indigo plants and all
manner of tropical fruit and vegetables. There were
clumps of fruit-trees, bright and gay with their pale
pink blossoms. There were huge deep wells, from
which the panting oxen laboured to draw water. The
change was instantaneous. The morning sun broke
out of a cloud and all the birds began to sing.

We rode along pleasantly enough to the Sultan's
country-seat at Sedan ; and though our worthy skipper,
in spite of the renown of Forbes's Horse, had a sailor's
seat after all, the agent and I talked freely as we
went. I congratulated him on the freshness of the
morning air and the beauty of the country roundabout.


You should spend a day or two with me in the
hot weather," he said, dryly. 'for three or four

months in the year Muscat is the hottest place in the
world, and for twelve months it is the dullest. You
saw our great square houses in the town, with their
go-downs on the ground-floor, and their broad fiat roofs.
That's where we sleep in the hot weather, and that's
where we are watered every hour or so by our
attendants, who turn their big watering-pots on to us
as if we were parched-up flowers."

Impossible ! " I cried.

Hardly impossible," said the agent, smiling. "It
has, at all events, been a legend ever since I landed.
You can't imagine what a terrific heat all these masses
of black rock accumulate during the day and give out
again at night. You can have no idea of the heat
here in spring, and the dulness of our lives when the
date season is over. The Eesident and I are the only
two Englishmen here. The doctor, who is a very
pleasant fellow and very clever at his work, is an educated
Hindu. There is a young American at Muttra.
We can't afford to quarrel with one another ; but in
the dog-days we all grow fractious, and our relations
get rather strained."

Then you have no amusements ? "

None, unless you call an occasional siege an amusement.
Every now and then some of the Wahabee
Arabs think that the Sultan should join his brother in
Zanzibar. They fire on the town ; the town fires

back. The sound of the firing reverberates among the
rocks in an astonishing manner, and it is simply impossible
to sleep properly at night till a gunboat comes
in and throws a few shells and rockets into the camp
of the marauders. That settles them for the time
being, and then everything is as humdrum and monotonous
as before."

On our ride back we had a most interesting chat
about the slave trade. The English gunboats are, it
seems, the police of the Gulf, and keep the Turks and
Persians and Arabs in admirable order. Not many
years ago the whole coast was infested with pirate
ports, and the seas crowded with pirate shows and
bungalow. Now the English Channel itself is not
more orderly. Slavery exists, of course. You hear
nothing in Muscat but Swahili, the lingua Franca of
Eastern Africa. More than a third of the people here
are slaves, and they are recruited from time to time
from the east coast. Nominally the slave traffic has
ceased ; but the shows that are accidentally captured
every now and then, only show that there is still a
large capital invested in the business ; and then most
of the pilgrims and travellers smuggle a slave or two
in with their party, just as English tourists smuggle a
box of cigars into England or a case or two of cau cU
Cologne.

Slavery suits the country," added the agent, " and

it most emphatically suits the slaves. They are well
treated; they find, a home-life they never dreamt of
before ; they are an important item in every domestic
circle here ; they are well looked after, and ten thousand
times better off, Mr Hicks, than ever they were
at home. I talk Swahili well enough to know, and I
have never met a negro who would return to Africa if
he could."

Still," I said, " the middle passage must be
dreadful."

Xo doubt. Middle passages always are dreadful ;
but it is the cruel journey down to the African coast
that plays the havoc with them. I am not defending
the slave trade, mind you, or the smug Banian and
Arab merchants who sit in safety in their counting-houses
and make big fortunes out of black ivory. It
is an abominable business. I am only telling you
what I know. Slavery is an oriental institution, and
part and parcel of our domestic life in the East, even
in India; and nine times out of ten the slaves are
better off than the class nominally above them."

In India ! " I cried. " In India there are no
slaves."

Oh yes, there are, especially in the old Mohammedan
families of distinction. There are slaves in the
harem and slaves in the household."

How do they get there ? "

By the underground passage, of course' said the
Captain, smiling.

He had suddenly come up to us, and was, for the
moment, on fairly good terms with his horse.

Have you ever seen a slave-sale ? " I asked the
agent.

And as the agent said nothing, the skipper replied,
I have — at Jeddah. There was some trouble in getting
at the slaves before the sale, but the sale itself
was free to everybody. Their head - dresses, poor
devils, when we saw them, were docketed with their
numbers, and then at an appointed hour their
head-dresses were sold by auction in the open air
at a street corner. The slaves never appeared,
but the merchants knew what they were bidding
for."

Were there women on view as well as men ? " I
asked.

"Yes, plenty of women ; but they were chiefly boys
and girls."

That is the atrocity of the whole thing," I cried,
when women are sold and bought like cattle "

"Oh," said the agent shortly, "Jeddah is not the
only place where women are bought and sold. London,
I take it, is the biggest slave-market in the world.
But you have to travel about a bit before you can see
London, or any other place, for that matter, in proper

perspective. However, here we are at the walls again,
and if you care to step round with me to the Eesidency,
I'll show you a cargo of real slaves."

The agent was as good as his word. An Arab dhow
had been captured a week or two before, trying to run
into Muscat from Dharamsalama, the regular trysting-spot,
some thirty miles off. The vessel lay high and
dry on the beach, waiting till she could be legally
broken up. She was a wretched little craft, forty or
fifty feet long, but a hundred and twenty slaves had
been packed away in her. She lay there as a warning
to all the evil-doers in the place, and in full sight of
her captain and owners and agents, who were imprisoned,
at the Eesident's request, in one of the Sultan's
fortresses just above. The slaves, too, were hard by,
in a compound — the girls on one side of a hurdle, the
boys on the other — waiting for some one to come and
take charge of them. They were given away in a kind
of apprenticeship to anybody of recognised respectability
in Muscat itself. The remainder were to be
sent to India to look out for masters. They would
all of them, I was told, be much happier if they were
sold off in the regular way. There used, added the
Captain, to be an asylum for slave boys and girls at
Cassock in India. But that was found to be too expensive
after Livingstone died, and the authorities now
depend entirely on private offers. Would I take one ?

Yes," I said to the Arab custodian, " I should like
a nice lively little creature for a lady."

Oh, if it is for a lady, you can have a girl if you
like, but she must give us a receipt."

I thought that Mrs Fonblanque would prefer a boy ;
so I selected a pretty, clean-skinned, bright-eyed, curly-headed
little fellow of about ten years of age, and it
was arranged that he should be waiting for me at the
beach when we started. He was delighted beyond
measure.

Then we called on the Eesident, the one living
authority on Arabian politics. He made us stay for
breakfast, and I was enthralled and entranced by his
conversation. I learned afterwards, what I should
have guessed at the time, that he had been engaged
for years upon an important work on Arabia ; and for
that reason it might perhaps be indiscreet to repeat
any of the legends and anecdotes he told me.

He kindly undertook to arrange a visit to the Sultan
in the afternoon, and then we sallied out to see if we
could pick up any quaint old arms. Captain Forbes and
I both laughed a little when everybody told us that all
the arms in the bazaar had been sent on board the
steamer, because a great English lady there did not
care to come on shore.

We visited the Custom-house on our way back, a
substantial arcaded building erected by the Portuguese,

as an inscription over a doorway still shows, in the
year 1640 ; but some of the inscriptions in the old
Portuguese forts, and on their guns, are half a century
older than this. Then, as we strolled down to the
beach and pulled off to the ship, I thought a good
deal about Mrs Fonblanque. She was in a different
mood every day. Yesterday she had been very good
to me. What would she be to-day ? I should know
when I saw her from her eyes, which varied in expression,
and almost in colour, with all her chanmnix
moods. And how, I wondered, had she interpreted
that sudden and unhappy little episode over the
painting of her hand on the panel ?

The Captain laughed out just then, and I fancied
that I must have been thinking aloud.

I beg your pardon ? " I said, rather savagely.
I beg yours," he replied, smiling. " It was one of
the most ludicrous incidents I ever remember. I shall
never forget it."

What ? " I asked. " What do you mean ? "
Oh, the anchorage here always reminds me of it,"
he continued, still laughing. " There was a sailing-ship
here last year, and the skipper somehow or other
belonged to the Eoyal Cork Yacht Club, and thought
he had a right to fly the Club flag, the white ensign.
One of our gunboats came in. The commander saw
the white ensign, and sent off in a rage to have it

hauled down at once. His men were a smart set of
chaps, and got hold of it and brought it on board.
Next morning, however, the white ensign was flying
away gaily again right at the top of the mizzen-mast.
The commander put on his uniform and went in
person. The skipper, a tough old Irish salt, met him
most affably. ' Take that flag down ! ' roared the captain
of the gunboat. ' How the devil dare you fly
her Majesty's ensign over your d d old coal-barge
? ' 'I can't take it down,' said the skipper
coolly, ' I really can't, and it is, I assure you, my own
Club flag, the Eoyal Cork Yacht Club.' ' D— n the
Eoyal Cork Yacht Club ! ' cried the captain. ' If you
can't take it down, I can.' ' No, you can't,' said the
skipper. ' I can't, and you can't. The flag is nailed
to the mast-head, and the mast is — greased.' "

And what was done ? "

I never knew. There was a deuce of a row. But
the flag was still flying when I left."

CHAPTER XXVIII.

We found Mrs Fonblanque, the Sheik, and their
humble servant the curiosity man, busy buying swords
and shields and daggers. The swords and daggers
were all silver-mounted. Their handles were encrusted
with silver, and their scabbards curiously embroidered
with solid silver cord. Some of the leather belts
attached to them were also almost covered with silver
work. The work was very solid and very beautiful,
and the Sheik explained that every tribe has its own
peculiar pattern of decoration. Some of the old
swords were of good workmanship and of a wonderfully
fine temper. The dealers bent them double till
the point touched the hilt, and they had a queer knack
of giving the blades a sudden twist as they threw them
up in the air, that made them shiver for five minutes.
They were dear, even the smaller daggers costing forty
dollars each; but Mrs Fonblanque had purchased a
pile of them.

Well," she said, looking up, " it is about time you

were back, sir. I am tired of buying arms. Pay the
men their money, Priscilla, and send them off. It was
rather mean of you, Mr Hicks, to steal away without
us. What have you both been doing ? "

Seeing the town," I answered ; " and, look here, I
have a present for you."

"What a funny present ! " she cried. " But what a
pretty little boy ! What on earth shall I do with him ?
I wonder what Priscilla will say to your present.
Priscilla ! Priscilla ! "

Priscilla, rather to my astonishment, approved of
the present immensely ; and so Mrs Fonblanque resolved
to keep him, and signed the receipt.

He has a skin like velvet," she said, patting his
cheeks. "When he is washed and dressed, he'll
look handsome and very quaint. Thank you, Mr
Hicks."

Then I gave her an account of our expedition, and
both she and the Nun were rather indignant when they
heard that we had had a pleasant canter through a
very charming country.

I don't believe in the green scenery and the fruit
and the flowers," said Mrs Fonblanque. "Look at
those hot black rocks, my dear. There's not a sign of
anything green anywhere. Let us both go ashore by
ourselves, as we did at Bahrein, and see if the Sultan
will give us a mount."

The Xun firmly resisted the temptation, and even
the Sheik, who had, it seems, persuaded them to stay
on board all this time, again insisted that ladies could
not possibly enter the Muscat bazaar.

However, as we were preparing for our interview
with the Sultan, Mrs Fonblanque received the signal
and unexpected honour of an invitation to visit the
royal harem. The letter was written in very indifferent
English and apparently by a Portuguese penman
perhaps, or probably by our doctor. On the other
hand, it was brought in state by a guard of honour.
The gist of it all was, that the ladies of the seraglio
had heard of the arrival of a great English lady, an
event that had never occurred in Muscat before, and
were so anxious to see her that the Sultan at once
commanded her to come. This was evidently a mere
verbal slip. She was, however, to come with the rest
of us. She would be graciously entertained, handsomely
rewarded, and returned in safety. The letter
was ended by the Sultan's enormous seal of soft brown
wax, and it was enclosed in a pretty little casket of
carved ivory inlaid with gold, which the messengers
refused to take back.

There's a mandate for you ! " cried Captain Forbes.
Don't you go. Send back word to say it is his duty
to call first."

It is rather a rude letter," said Mrs Fonblanque

thoughtfully, " but the envelope is really very pretty.
Do you think I ought to go, Mr Hicks ? "

Oh," I replied, " I see that you have made up your
mind, so I will not venture an opinion."

Well," she continued, " after all the Sheik has told
us about harem life, I confess I should like to see a
real sultan's real seraglio. I shall go if Priscilla may
go too."

You will find it dreadfully stupid, dear," said the
Xun.

"I find most things stupid," replied Mrs Fons
with half a sigh and a side-glance at me.
But I wonder what it will be like ? "

Very like your servants' quarters in India," said
Captain Forbes, "if they had high walls all round
them, and were kept locked up night and day. He is
said to have twenty-eight wives; and, judging from
those I have brought here and carried away again, I
should say that they are mostly negresses."

The Sheik ought to know. Adhere is the Sheik ? "

As he could not be found just then, she continued,
I thought they would be all Georgians and Circassians,
and goodness knows what, the pick of the loveliest
women in the world, in the loveliest dresses.
Did you think that, Mr Hicks ? "

"No."

And you an artist ! That is only because you can't

go yourself. But I know better. Think of Sultan
Mahmoud's harem —

Dans mon harem se groupe,

Comme un bouquet
Debordant d'une coupe

Sur un banquet,
Tout ce que cherche ou rev,

D'opmm use,
En son ennui sans tree

Un coeur-blase.
La biche, et Antelope,

J'ai tout ici,
Ashe, Antique, Europe

En raccourci ;
Teint vermeil, teint derange,

(Eil noir ou bleu,
Le charmant et Estrange

De tout un peu.'

I shall have the most wonderful stories, de tout un ^cu,
to tell you when I come back."

When you come back ? If you come back ; you
are taking too sanguine a view of the situation. Perhaps
the Sultan may add you to his bouquet."

Oh, you forget that Priscilla will be with me.
But what am I to say to the eight - and - twenty
wives ? "

I don't think that matters," I said, laughing.
They won't understand a single word of any language
you know, and the interpreter, if there is one,
will talk for you."

VOL. n. F

That is just one of the things I prefer to do myself."

Yes, but it can't be done here. You'll be made to
talk in the way of the country, and it's very lucky you
can't understand what they say in reply. Don't you
remember that old story of the first Dutch ambassador
who went to the Porte ? He visited the Sultan.
What does the dogs want ? ' asked the Sultan. This
was translated into a speech full of ornate oriental
compliments, and the ambassador replied in the same
strain. ' Let the dog feed,' answered the Sultan, ' and
when the dog has fed, kick the dog out ! ' The ambassador
was delighted with the Sultan's compliments.
The Sultan felt that he had held his own, and the
treaty was signed next day."

Never mind the treaty, Mr Hicks. The story is
good enough in itself. But I fancy the Sultan of Muscat
won't presume to speak to me in that way ; and
as to his wives, women are cleverer than men, and we
shall understand each other perfectly, no matter what
language we happen to talk."

We shall see when you come back. But if you
want to have as little trouble as possible, adopt Lord
Ponsonby's plan, and whenever you are spoken to,
count slowly ' one, two, three, four,' and so on, till you
think you have said enough."

Well, Mr Hicks, if I am to be deaf and dumb, I
am not blind, and I promise you to keep my eyes

open. I shall have such a lovely picture to describe
to you this evening as you never dreamt of in that
wonderful house-boat of yours off Sydenham, when
you fancied you saw Ctesiphon Restored ! "

The Sheik, when he came up, strongly advised her
to put her veil on ; but though I appealed to him as a
last chance, he would not try to dissuade her from this
very unnecessary experience.

It will do her good," he said to me quietly.
There is no trouble in reaching the palace. She will
see women treated there on a rational system for once,
and that . should give her something to think over
afterwards."

We went to the palace escorted by a number of our
sailors. Behind the Teen blinds that covered the loner
narrow windows in its white walls, Mrs Fonblanque
declared she saw the black eyes of the ladies of the
seraglio. Over the belvedere on the roof the Sultan's
blood-red banner floated lazily, and turning round, we
noticed that his two or three old warships in the harbour
were flying all their bunting. The heavy gates
swung back as we approached, and Mrs Fonblanque
gave a little shriek as the lion, with a low growl,
flung himself savagely against the bars of his cage.
The large courtyard was crowded with Wahabee
troops, all swaying to and fro in a weird fantastic
manner, to the wild music of a Sidi band.

I enjoy this," said Mrs Fonblanque, taking my
arm. " I am glad I came. It is very promising, and
makes my blood creep just enough."

Here the interpreter came forward and asked us to
climb up a very narrow flight of steep steps protected
by a hand-rail. This led us on to the gallery running
right round the great courtyard, and in another moment,
after passing under a low doorway and crossing
an ante-room, we were in the Sultan's audience-chamber.
He came forward slowly, bowing to all of us ashe
came, and after courteously motioning Captain
Forbes and myself to two chairs, one on either side of
his own, he beckoned to Mrs Fonblanque to follow
him. She turned, just before they disappeared, and
there was a new look almost of timidity or doubt in
her pathetic grey eyes.

The room we sat in was large, but very unpretending.
The walls were whitewashed. The floor was
partially covered by an unusually big and very handsome
Persian carpet, in the middle of which stood the
three chairs ; and on one side of the room there hung
portraits of the Queen, the Prince of Wales, and the
Shah.

'•' That will be something to tell the Sheik," said the
Captain, softly. "With this precedent he will be
able to buy Ezra's Tomb from Mrs Fonblanque after
all."

But just then the Sultan reappeared and took his
seat between us.

Tu spite of a rather timid manner and the studied
simplicity of his attire, there was a natural dignity
about Stud Toorki that set us at our ease at once. He
was, I should say, some fifty years old, though he
looked more. His limit-brown features were regular
and finely chiselled. His eyes, when they were not
lowered, were intelligent and sympathetic. His smile
had an expression of fixed melancholy. He wore no
ornaments of any sort, no arms, and not even a turban,
his head being covered with a white skull-cap in
token of his priestly descent.

Stud Toorki, the Sultan of ]muscat — the Imam of
Muscat, as they call him in Europe from his sacred
pedigree — was anxious to know all that was going on
in Europe, and took a lively interest in the account
of my journey here from Constantinople. Then he
motioned to the crowd of white-clad slaves to withdraw,
and the conversation became more intimate.
He talked a good deal, and very pleasantly, of
Bombay, where he had spent some years of his life
as a pensioner of the Government of India : and,
indeed, he still draws an English or Indian subsidy of
£10,000 a-year. He seemed to regret the good old
days, and to think that his younger brother had got
the better half of their heritage when the British

Government cut the old kingdom into two, and gave
Zanzibar to his brother and Muscat to him.

"Muscat," he said, "is nothing without Zanzibar.
We were a great naval power once. Our fleet has
gone, our merchant-ships are going, our trade is dying,
our time is over. The Arab proverb says ' as great a
coward as a Muscadel.' I am an Arab, not a Mus-cates
myself. But my people here would care nothing
if the English flag were run up over my palace tomorrow.
The best of them have deserted us, and
gone away to Bunder Abbas and Zanzibar, which were
both ours once."

I turned the conversation by endeavouring to talk
about the slave trade. But this, too, seemed to be a disagreeable
topic. He expressed a kind of mild surprise
at the trouble England took in trying to suppress an
immemorial institution. Then he clapped his hands,
and the attendants brought black coffee without sugar,
very sweet sherbet, and cigarettes, and proceeded to
drench us liberally with attar of roses as we smoked.
The conversation began to languish. I tried to revive
it by asking something about the prospects of a close
union between the Arab tribes. But he understood as
little of the subject as I did. I always hate talking
through an interpreter. It is, I fancy, like dancing in
fetters ; and Captain Forbes did not think it necessary
to open his mouth at all, except to suggest aside that

the shower of rose-water was a timely hint that the
audience was over, and that we had already sat therefor
a most unconscionable time. This was true enough,
and I was quite as sick of it as he was ; but there were
no signs of Mrs Fonblanque. I could not desert her.
The Sultan was still silent, and the situation became
embarrassing.

Ask his Majesty," I said at last to the interpreter,
when Mrs Fonblanque is coming out ? "

It would be as much as my head is worth," he
replied, in a very low voice, " to mention a woman to
the Sultan."

The Sultan, mistaking our hesitation for gcmcJurie,
was good enough to rise first, conduct us to the door,
and graciously shake each of us by the hand, and there
was nothing for it but to follow the interpreter down
the stairs and across the courtyard. I began to be
really anxious about Mrs Fonblanque. Captain Forbes
was vastly amused at my discomfiture, and the interpreter
could not understand it. ]^J"o English Mem
Sahib had ever visited the Sultan's seraglio before, and
he had no idea what the etiquette was. At all events,
it was impossible to get any information from the
seraglio, except, perhaps, in a very official way through
the Eesident. Should tie take me to the Presidency ?

Nonsense, man I " said the Captain ; " ten to one
she is on board already."

They knew nothing, however, of her in the ship,
and I had just persuaded Captain Forbes to start for
the shore again, when we suddenly heard a salute.
There was a great commotion on the beach, and in a
few minutes we saw Mrs Fonblanque approaching ina
gold and crimson coloured pinnace.

She was perfectly radiant, as we found a seat for
her on the quarter-deck, and all sat down around her.

I am sorry I kept you," she began ; " but it really
was the most delightful day of my life. Nobody could
have been nicer than the Sultan after he left you to
take me into the seraglio, and no one more attentive.
We crossed over a broad garden, well shaded by thick
trees, and full of roses and vines, pomegranates, jessamine,
and honeysuckle. There was a pretty gilt chios
or pleasure-house in the middle of it, and four marble
fountains at the four corners ; the rooms of the seraglio
run all round it in two storeys, and everything was
beautifully kept."

Well, all I can say is," said the Captain, " that
your experiences and ours are not precisely similar."

Hardly," replied Mrs Fonblanque, as Priscilla
brought her up a cup of tea. " The Sultan, however,
seemed to be rather interested in my experiences, and
he handed me over to the ladies' quarters in a half-hearted
and reluctant kind of way."

How did he express himself ? " asked I.

By his eyes," said Mrs Fonblanque. " Mr Hicks's
bugbear of foreign languages never arose for a moment.
However, when we had crossed the garden, he pulled
a heavy purdah aside, and after looking all manner
of amiable things, he left me there, and I went on,
escorted by a very fat, very old, very white-haired
negro, through a suite of the loveliest rooms you can
possibly imagine."

Indeed ! " I said ; " and what were they like ? "

The first room was plainly furnished, with nothing
but low couches round it. But the floor was marble,
and the couches or divans, covered with pale blue
velvet on a silver ground, stood on little white marble
pillars. Then we passed through another room, wainscoted
with silver, and inlaid with mother-of-pearl,
and ivory of different tints, and a polished wood —
olive-wood, I think."

Whew ! " said the Sheik. " Poor old Fatima hates
tent-life. Your description would really make her
mouth water."

What, you here ! " exclaimed Mrs Fonblanque.
You said you were going to stop in Muscat, Sheik ;
and I have been blaming myself for the last two or
three hours for not having said good-bye to you before
I went ashore. I thought it was possible you might
change your plans; but what made you change them?"

Business," said the Sheik, dryly.

Xever mind the Sheik's plans now," I interrupted.
What happened in the olive-wood room ? "

Here," continued Mrs Fonblanque, " the old negro
withdrew, and two pretty, bright-eyed, red-lipped little
negresses took charge of me."

And then ? "

"They led me into a much larger and grander
room. The walls here were encrusted with some
kind of Japanese china, thickly studded with small
mirrors. The ceiling, where it was not gold, was
painted with flowers, and all the indented archways,
in the wall beneath the narrow iron cross-barred
windows, were filled in with baskets of creepers and
pots of flowers. In the front part of the room there
was a big fountain, and the water, as it splashed down
through all the marble basins, cooled the air very
pleasantly. The walls beyond that were fitted with
low sofas or divans, covered with white satin embroidered
with gold, and the floor was strewn with
heavy Persian rugs."

What more could one wish for, dear ? " said the
Nun.

I wished for nothing more. Sister Patricia," replied
Mrs Fonblanque sweetly. " I don't know about the
other women ; perhaps they thought the windows
too high up. It was a prison, no doubt, but it looked
like a paradise."

And the other women, the ladies of the seraglio,
what of them ? " I asked, fairly astonished by all this
magnificence,

Oh, they were grouped together at the end of the
room, waiting to receive me ; and after we had made
our salaams, they lay down again on the carpets all
around, and we all began to talk."

'' And what did you talk about ? "

AVhat do women always talk about ? About dress,
to be sure, Mr Hicks. They examined my things, and
I examined theirs."

In dumb show ? "

Well, partly. But Priscilla helped us out."

'' Were their dresses very grand ? " asked the Xun.

I suppose so. They were certainly very picturesque
and becoming."

I could hardly say that of the dresses I saw at
Teheran," said the Stun, thoughtfully. " Some of the
younger women were pretty, but they couldn't look
nice in trousers."

No, dear ? I fancy I almost prefer their wide
trousers to our skimpy petticoats. I wish you had
seen the lady who seemed to be their leader. She
was dressed in a gold brocade jacket, pale pink
trousers, an open muslin vest, a broad green girdle
set with diamonds, and white satin slippers ; and she
wore great pearl-beaded bodkins in her loose black

hair. But I really can't describe their dresses properly
to all these gentlemen. The younger girls were
dressed in different - coloured damasks, embroidered
with silver or gold, and wore their hair in innumerable
plaits. I counted more than a hundred separate
tresses on one girl's head."

It must be rather hard to plait a negress's head,"
said the Captain.

Negresses ! " cried Mrs Fonblanque, indignantly.
There were no negresses there but the girls who stood
behind us like bronze statues and fanned us with huge
palm-leave fans."

Here the Sheik laughed out. " I thought my experiences
of England rather striking for an Arab," he
said. " They are nothing to this English lady's experiences
of Arabia. Zuleika, who knew one or two
of the Sultan's wives, must have been grossly
deceived."

]airs Fonblanque fanned herself serenely.

Were any of them beautiful ? " I asked.

Very," she answered. " There were about thirty
of them ; and quite half were extremely beautiful,
with wonderful complexions, very soft skins, very
regular features, and very large eyes, supernaturally
black and brilliant, on account of the black stuff they
all put under their eyes, and yet with a very languishing
and pathetic look in them too. Many of the

ladies had, I fancied, rather a sad expression. But
they smiled very sweetly when they spoke to one
another, and they seemed to be as friendly as possible.
They were very easy and graceful. The younger
women had perfect figures, and they were all singularly
free from affectation and restraint."

A regular happy family," I said. " But how did
they contrive to keep you amused for so long ? We
thought they were going to keep you altogether."

"We had sweetmeats, and hahva, and dates, and
coffee in very tiny little cups, and sherbet and cigarettes
and rose-water, and they were all astonished that
I didn't smoke. Then four young girls came forward
to dance, and danced very prettily indeed. I never
saw anything like it in India ; but then in India I had
never seen a nautch in a seraglio. After that there
was some music, and then another set of girls came
forward as jugglers and snake-charmers. Have you
read * Salammbo,' Mr Hicks ? "

"Yes, and thought it rather dreary reading."

"Well, there was one girl in the troupe that reminded
me a little of Hamilcar's beautiful daughter.
After that, as the sun was going down, we spent
some time in the garden, and then, before I came
away, they insisted on taking me all through the
seraglio. They certainly have the most luxurious baths
I had ever seen. One domed room led into another.

The domes and the floors and the walls were all white
marble. The water flowed through marble basins
into tiny marble channels, and in the hot baths —
Turkish baths, as we call them — the sofas were of
marble too."

Stop ! " I cried. " I have you at last, Mrs Fons
! You didn't try a Turkish bath yourself ? "

Of course not," she said. " Don't be ridiculous,
Mr Hicks."

Wait a little. You didn't have a chance, then, of
seeing, as Lady Worsley Montagu "

And who was Lady Worsley Montagu ? " asked
jars Fonblanque, innocently.

The lady who was bold enough to say, after she
had been in the harems of Constantinople, that a
woman's face is no index to her beauty — the
lady, Mrs Fonblanque, from whom you have stolen
the whole account of your wonderful experiences. I
remember it all now, and I remember a good deal you
have not told us. AYill you confess ? Or shall I give
the Sheik, and the Captain, and the Nun too, the bits
you have omitted, and cross your ^'s for you and dot
your i's ? "

For shame, Mr Hicks ! " she cried — " for shame !
Don't punish me for trying to amuse you all and to
puzzle the Sheik. You were puzzled. Sheik ? "

Immensely puzzled," he said. " I know nothing

of Lady Worsley Montagu, and I thought you really
were smitten with the restful seclusion of our harem
life."

I hate it ! " she cried. " It is ten thousand times
worse than I thought. They weren't all negresses, but
they were all ugly. They did not care two straws forme,
and I saw they didn't like my dress. We had no
dancing-girls and no snake-charmers ; we had nothing
but one dreadful old woman, who came in with the
coffee, and told stories that made them shriek with
laughter. There, Mr Hicks ! are you satisfied now ?
I was never so bored in my life before. I feel quite
done and quite faint. stow are you happy ? "

Why did you stay so long ? " I persisted.

Ah ! that is your fault, not mine. It was not
etiquette, they told me, to let me go till you had
started."

CHAPTER XXIX.

' There is sorrow on the sea,
It cannot be quiet ; '
There are tears for yon and me,

This was the beginning of Mrs Fonblanque's evening
hymn as our good ship steamed slowly down the Gulf
of Oman by starlight. We were standing together
by the bulwarks. We had all bade good-night to one
another some little time before, and had gone down
below. But the night was very beautiful, and she
and I suddenly startled each other by meeting on the
quarter-deck.

I have no right to be here," she said, " now that
the lights are out. I only wanted to be alone. But
the sea here, on starlit nights like this, has an extraordinary
fascination for me."

So it has for me," I answered. " It looks restful,
and I feel very restless."

Oh no ! " she said. " Surely you are wrong there.

The sea is not restful. I like it because it never
seems the same to me. It changes with every mood
of the sky, every breath of the wind, and every turn of
the tide. Can't you hear the voices of the sea ? Can't
you hear what they say ? "

Not more to - night than on other nights," I
answered.

Can't you ? " she said. The sea has haunted me
all the evening through. A few days ago I promised
to sing really to you, and now that nobody can hear
us, I will try, if you like, to tell you in my singing
what the sea says."

Her song, as she sang it through, was a revelation
to me altogether of the power of music. It was
supremely sad and tender and pathetic.

I, who thought to link all the arts together, to give
music to words, and words to music, I could only
humbly ask her what she meant.

'' It is beautiful," I said — " so beautiful that it must
be true. But it is an enigma all the same. I can
feel its beauty, but it only fills me with vague
guesses."

All beauty should, I think, do that," she answered,
"and that is why I didn't believe in your theory of
universal knowledge."

What did it mean after all ? I remember most
distinctly the strange, sorrowful feelings her song

VOL. IL G

aroused in me as I listened, and how her voice seemed
to sob along the waves. Mrs Fonblanque was right.
The sea, as she sang, was restless and not restful.
I remember, and shall never forget, those first three
lines. That is all ; but that is enough, for the motive
of the whole song — words and music too — lay in
them.

There is sorrow on the sea." How could Mrs
Fonblanque, who had bidden me a laughing good-night
not very long before, see into my heart like this ?
There are tears for you and me." That was an exact
echo of my own thoughts as I had stood there for a
moment alone, watching the ebb and flow of the ocean,
always, as I thought till then, monotonous, always
irresistible, and always sounding the same melancholy
dirge.

And still, as we both were silent, the deep toned
music of the sea seemed to continue to keep tune and
time to the cadence of her song.

I was moved as I rarely have been ; but after allas
the long waves incessantly rolled on, what insignificant
items we both were, except to ourselves, and
except, perhaps, to each other !

There was a world of meaning in that " perhaps."

There are tears for you and me." Who would
care but us ? Would she care ?

I wish," said Mrs Fonblanque, after a pause, " that

I had never turned back. I was trying to escape from
myself when I first met you, Mr Hicks."

Why ? "

I scarcely know. You remember that horrible
man Mr AYylie, and that night at the Residency ? "

Yes," I said. " You can't tell how I long to have
it all explained away, or how miserable I have made
myself over his unresented rudeness to you,"

Poor boy ! " she said, laying her hand softly on my
arm. " Poor boy ! the world has many disillusions
for you yet."

But why ? " I cried. " Tell me ! Tell me ' "

I cannot tell you now," she answered. " Perhaps
at first I might have told you — and then, there is
nothing to tell. But this I can say honestly : I had
never seen Mr Wylie before. I had never heard of
him. Yet for the last three days I have been wishing
that I had never met you."

"Well," I answered slowly, looking down on the
little hand that still just touched my sleeve, and thinking
much more of it than of her words, " if you are
sorry, I am sorry too — for both of us. The mere
accident of our encounter at Kurnah, when they were
sawing down the Tree of Good and Evil, has given me
the happiest days I have ever known."

And that is why you have tried to seem so disagreeable
lately ? "' said ]airs Ponblanque, gently. " I

don't think any of us, not even the Nun or the Sheik,
thought you exceptionally happy. And as for me,
you seemed to avoid me altogether."

Neo, I didn't ! " I cried. " You know better. Your
grey eyes haunted me from the first moment I saw
them. Then I kissed your hand, and that made me
love you and hate myself. But you must know what
I feeL"

"]^o, Mr Hicks, I don't. Indeed I don't. It was
very, very wrong of you to kiss my hand, and very
wrong of me not to blame you for it afterwards far
more than I did. We were both to blame, I daresay.
Xow we are quits ; and so let us forget all about it, as
we promised."

I never promised ! I can't forget ! " I said, passionately.
" I wish I could. Wlien I kissed your hand I
didn't want to kiss it ; I scarcely knew what I was
doing; but I could not help it. I will land at the
first port we come to if you wish it, Mrs Fonblanque,
if you will only promise to forgive me."

I scarcely know what I wish, Mr Hicks. But I
will really and truly forgive you if you solemnly promise
never to kiss my hand again."

Oh 1 " I cried, " I am so glad I am not to be banished.
I promise."

Then, without knowing what I did, I drew her
gently towards me. Her eyes met mine. They were

half closed, but still half resentful. Then her long
eyelashes fell softly over them. Her pliant figure
shivered for a moment as I held her in my arms ;
and, for a moment, she lay very still ; and then somehow
her lips touched mine, and it was I who shivered.
There seemed to be a message in her kiss, a message
that thrilled me through with mysterious longings and
surmises.

Her eyes, I thought, would tell me everything when
they opened. They told me nothing. They were cold
still, though full of tears, as I saw them in the starlight
; and her face was very, very pale.

You should not have made me do that, Mr Hicks ! "
she cried. " I hate you and despise myself, and now
you despise me too ! "

She broke from me as she spoke, and stole away
like a white-robed phantom to the other side of the
ship, and hid her face in her hands.

Can't you hear the sea ? " she said, as I implored
her to look up. " ' There are tears for you and me.' "

I don't care what tears there are," I answered, " so
long as I may think you love me."

Oh, but you must never think that, Mr Hicks,"
she cried, turning round almost fiercely, and putting her
hands out as if she were pushing some horrible thing
away from her. " You must never think that. T
don't love you and I can't love you. Let us be the

old friends we were. I can promise to like you very
dearly, and I should like to like you, so as to mix
myself up in all your plans. Let us be the dearest
friends in all the world, and bound to help each other
whatever happens. I must go, I must go ! What
would the Xun say if she knew that I where here, and
what must you have thought of me for being here at
all ! Can't you see that I am crying, Mr Hicks," she
said, suddenly snatching her hand from mine.

Then she stood for a moment, just in front of the
companion, as statuesque as if in marble, in her white
drapery, with the starlight full on her grey eyes, and
pale face, and bare white arms as they where uplifted
with a menace — so it seemed to me — of an eternal
farewell.

Stay, stay, stay ! " I cried. " Say you forgive me.
Say something for me to think over all night long when
you have left me."

I am not leaving you, Mr Hicks," she replied in a
low tremulous voice. " I am very, very tired. That
is all. But tomorrow we will start afresh, so as to be
good friends, earnest, unselfish, and loyal ever afterwards,
but always friends."

Then she disappeared.

Next day, however, Mrs Fonblanque avoided me
altogether, and until we came to Gwadur she seemed
to be completely wrapped up in the Xun's society.

Then Captain Forbes, who had to go ashore on business,
offered to take us all off with him. We were
anchored right under a huge volcanic rock, shaped
exactly like a great Gothic cathedral. The shore,
consisting of a strip of yellow sand with queer sandstone
cliffs behind it, looked rather tempting. There
were three European houses on the beach, and a
native village found shelter under the cliffs.

I should like a little walk," said the Xun. " Shall
we go, dear ? "

I should like a walk too," said the Sheik.

So should I," I said.

Come on, Mrs Fonblanque 1 " cried the skipper.

I have a headache," she answered, wearily, " and I
would really rather not go ashore to-day."

'ewe won't let you off ! " cried Captain Forbes ; and
then they all began to make their arrangements.

I only wanted to go on shore so as to talk to her.
Here on board I would have her all to myself.

May I stay ? " I asked anxiously, the moment the
others were out of hearing?.

No, Mr Hicks. If you stay I shall be obliged to
go," she said gently ; " and indeed I have a headache,
and I feel rather frightened to-day at the thought of
the surf and the boat."

Then, of course, you must stop here," I answered.
But why may I not stop with you ? Last night you

promised that we should be the best friends in all the
world, and to-day you will scarcely speak to me."

I hardly know what is the matter with me to-day,"
she said. " I do not mean to be unjust, but I did not
want to talk to you just now. However, we must talk
about it sooner or later, and it is very kind of you to
think of staying."

Here they all came up again, and were astonished
to find that we intended to remain on board.

What is the matter with you both ? " asked the
Sheik, looking first at her, and then at me. " What is
the matter with you both to-day ? You seem to be
tired out, Mrs Fonblanque, and as if you had not slept
much last night ? "

Perhaps not," replied Mrs Fonblanque.

I thought not at the time," he said. " I thought
so last night. I thought I heard you singing."

Then Mrs Fonblanque looked at him.

I could not sleep properly myself," he continued,
so I took my hookah under the bridge and smoked
away there until somehow or other I dozed off."

Then he offered the Nun his hand, to help her into
the boat.

Sister Patricia drew back a little.

I was only going because Mrs Fonblanque was
going," she said.

Oh, but you must go ! " cried the Sheik. " I want

to show you the oil-well, and the queer way it bubbles
up out of the mud."

I really think you might go, dear," said Mrs Fons
" They will both look after you."

The Xun glanced hurriedly at Mrs Fonblanque and
myself. She saw clearly what I wanted. She did not
like to go, but she went.

Then at last we were left alone.

"You promised we should be friends," I said, as
Mrs Fonblanque drew her chair a little away from me.

"And I meant what I promised," she exclaimed.
Only we must put the last two or three days behind
us altogether and start anew. I tried to think it all
out last night, Mr Hicks, and if you will really forget
the last two or three days, I don't see why we should
not remain true and loyal friends. Do you ? "

No," I said. " I will try to be as true and loyal
as I can. My one wish now is to be near you, to
see you, to hear your voice, to feel your presence.
I will try to forget the last two or three days, and the
days before them too. But you are part and parcel
of my life now, Mrs Fonblanque. There is a personal
atmosphere about you that I feel as distinctly as I see
your eyes or hear your voice. I feel your presence
before T see you, and the atmosphere around you is as
essential to me as the air I breathe."

'* Oh," said Mrs Fonblanque, " you should not speak

like that to-day ; and after all I said, you ought not to
have that feeling. If you really have it, it may last
till we reach Bombay — and then ? "

Don't laugh at me," I answered. " It is not my
fault. I have lost my individuality in yours. A
cloud of thoughts and feelings, common to both of us,
seems to envelop us both, AMiat shall I do if it dies
away altogether, and what shall I do now ? "

Poor boy ! " she said gently, and very much as she
had said it the nio-ht before. I thought she midst

O O o

perhaps lay her hand on my arm again, and that I
should see her face as I had seen it in the starlight
the night before.

I fancy she guessed what I was thinking, for she
was silent for a little, as she turned her face away
from me altogether.

Mr Hicks," she said at last, " we must let the
future take care of itself, and be good friends to each
other. AVe won't look back, and we neither of us
need look forward. We both want a little honest
friendship. Sometimes I scold you, but I like your
society better than the Sheik's or the stun's. You
know that, and I don't mind you knowing it. Let us
be friends."

And your friendship," I said, half smiling, " would
gradually develop me into a large and limp replica of
yourself. Last night "

Last night is dead and buried," she answered,
very gravely.

And the future is barred. What have we left ? "

''• The present," she cried brightly, " and that is
everything. One day is as good as another, and life
is interesting wherever you seize it. We can seize it
if we like, and give love the go-by."

Can we ? " I retorted, rather bitterly. " That was
not the way you spoke the other day when you told
me that men were fired and inspired by love and only
by love."

Ah ! " she answered, " we were talking impersonally
then, and we were jesting. We are talking
of each other now, and we are bound to be earnest in
all we say, and true, and very careful. I think I can
help you a little with my friendship. But there
must be no word, and no thought, and no hint of
love between us."

But we shall, as you said just now, be in Bombay
in a few days — and then ? "

Oh, then," she said, smiling, " you shall paint my
portrait. I could not sleep last night, and so I tried
to think it all clearly out. We will live in a hotel
there somewhere till the portrait is done."

But there must still be a ' then ' when the portrait
is finished."

I suppose so," she said. '' You are dreadfully

literal and logical to-day, Mr Hicks. But you need
not hurry over the portrait, you know."

There was a bright sunny look in her eyes as they
met mine frankly, that banished all my troubles and
perplexities at once.

It will be a long time before I am logical or
literal again," I cried. " I am getting exactly what
I wanted. Give me a little more, and I shall be
perfectly happy. The very morning after we met
first, you said we couldn't go on being ' he ' and ' she '
to each other. Must we still go on being Mrs Fons
and Mr Hicks?"

Mrs Fonblanque thought a little. "I must give
and take, I suppose," she said. " But I wish you
hadn't asked me that so soon. Yes," she added at last,
you may call me Lydia when nobody else is near.
I don't see what harm that can do, or what good."

And you will call me Hector ? "

Yes."

Yes ! " I exclaimed eagerly, " yes ! "

Yes — Hector," she said gently, with a faint smile
on her lips, and a much brighter smile in her grey
eyes. " I am almost glad now you suggested it. I
never liked the Hicks. I always liked the Hector."

How kind and good you are to me, Lydia ! Give
me one thing more, and make to-day the happiest day
of mv life."

And that one thing ? " she asked quietly, as a
quick warm flush lit up her beautiful pale face.

"The key to the mystery between you and that
man Wylie."

Mr Hicks — no, no. Hector I mean — there is no
mystery. I have no key. I know nothing. I only
suspect. I never saw Mr Wylie before ; indeed, indeed
I didn't ! I hate him, I don't know why.
Don't let us make ourselves miserable with these
wretched suspicions. Oh, Hector, here they come !
Mind you don't call me Lydia before them."

He has shot himself ! " cried the Nun, hurrying
up to us with a white scared face. '^ He has shot
himself, and he is dead."

Who, my dear ? " asked Mrs Fonblanque, rising
quickly and taking both her hands.

That poor passenger," said the Nun ; and then she
began to sob, and ]airs Fonblanque led her away.

Captain Forbes, when he arrived, told us in a few
words what had happened. They had had a pleasant
walk to the oil-wells, and had seen the thick grey
liquid foaming up through the mud into bubbles that
burst at last with a report like a pistol-shot. They
had tried to enter the little bazaar ; but the Nun was
frightened at the Beloochees and their fierce eyes, and
huge Jewish features, and long masses of unkempt
hair ; so they returned to the beach instead, and waited

there till the Sheik's emissary had purchased some
wonderful old arms for ]airs Fonblanque, and, at the
Nun's suggestion, a piece of dark-yellow cloth for the
little negro slave-boy. Then they looked in at the
telegraph office to see the news, and there they learnt
that that wretched passenger of ours had shot himself
when he was sober enough to find that the steamer
had left Bushire without him. The Stun, poor thing,
insisted that she was to blame for his death.

I told her," continued the Captain, warmly — " I
told her, over and over again, that she had nothing
to do with it, and that I always drop my passengers
at the first port if they can't pay for their passage.
But the Sheik managed her far better than I could.
Without him I don't know how we should have got
her off to the steamer. Mark my words, that Sheik
is a wonderful old chap with women. He'll watch
over her, poor girl, like a father, for the rest of the
way down, and she'll obey him like a child."

It was not long before I had an opportunity of
seeing how courteous and gentle the Sheik was to
the Nun, and how careful he was of her, and what
close friends they became. They were, it is true, an
incongruous couple ; but their alliance left Mrs Fons
and myself a good deal to ourselves, which
was exactly what I most ardently desired just then.

The Nun, good gentle creature, never spoke to me

again of the ill-fated passenger. But INIrs Fonblanque
told me privately that the Xii blamed herself terribly
for letting Captain Forbes guess what had frightened
her off Fao.

I am sorry for him, poor chap, after all," said the
skipper, as I told him this. " If he wrote those things
the Quartermaster laid hold of, there must have been
something in him. He talked in a lively and entertaining
way at breakfast the morning after he came
on board, and I almost believed him when he said
that our next great poet would have to lead a vagabond
life too. And now he has snuffed himself out
in the slums of a dirty Persian town ! So much for
the potentialities of his new departure, and his easygoing
theories about the sins and follies of one's ancestors
! Poor chap ! "

Chapter XXX.

An intellectual friendship with a clever and accomplished
woman of my own age was a strange experience
to me altogether, and a very pleasant one. Mrs
Fonblanque had an almost instantaneous way of seeing
think's — thanks to what she called "the unaided
intellect" — that made her criticism valuable, even
about moot questions which I had deliberately settled
long since. After a time I was driven into a corner,
and forced to bring my book-box up on deck so as to
refer to my authorities. Then it was that the most
enjoyable part of this long journey really began.

At first we read our favourite authors out by turns.
But I soon discovered that Lydia read much better
than I could, and that the very sound of her voice
gave new meaning to the passages I almost knew by
heart. So I lay at her feet on a pile of her own
carpets beside my book-box. When she stopped I
had always another book open at the right place;
and as she read, I could, at all events, look up into

her face and admire the curious way it changed in
colour, and in expression too, in sympathy with her
author's thoughts. She did not seem to know that I
was watching her. But she would not let me see her
eyes.

We had both solemnly discarded love or any mention
of it. But all the poets seemed to be on my side,
and I could scarcely ask her to read prose just then.
Browning, Tennyson, and Swinburne she returned to
my book-box very quickly ; Shelley and Wordsworth,
she said, were too difficult ; but over Heine and De
Musset we had rather a lively controversy. She
knew them, of course, though perhaps not quite so
well as I did.

They are very clever writers," she said, " very
polished, very acute, and very cynical. I hate the
realistic school, but surely they disregard actual life
altogether."

"Xot altogether," I answered "They can't quite
do that — though, when they were in the vein to write
poetry, they had, I fancy, much the same feelings
that I have now. Love, true love, was forbidden
them, and so they made love attractive and bizarre,
fantastic and romantic if you like, but tantalising
and fugitive, and, sooner or later, faithless."

That is very much what I meant," cried Mrs Fons
" There is more real passion in any one of

VOL. IL H

Burns's pathetic little songs than in the whole of the
Eeisebilder ' or ' Ella.' "

"Yes," I answered. "But Heine and De Musset
could scarcely help themselves. Burns was one of
nature's children, like Shakespeare. They were the
children of their age. They had la maladie du suche.
They were poets ; and poets, unless they are immortal
to begin with, show the worst as well as the best of
their age. They are their age in miniature, and its
scapegoats. These two particular poets had lost all
their illusions, just as you and I have lost them.
We are dumb, but they gloried in their loss. They
laughed out loudly, like Figaro, to keep themselves
from weeping ; for Heine and De Musset were both
intensely human, after all. They said spontaneously
what they felt, and so they said it very beautifully,
and I like them for that. But Baudelaire and Poe,
and all their imitators, care for nothing but the form
they give their ingenious word-puzzles, and we care
nothing for them. The frame is so elaborately carved
that we glance at the workmanship with interest —
and pass on."

"There is a great deal in form, though," replied
Lydia, picking Rossetti's first volume out of the book-box.
" Let me read you ' The Blessed Damsel' "

Is not that exquisite ? " she asked, when she had
finished.

Very exquisite' I answered, " and almost perfect,
but not quite perfect. There is something wanting.
A poem with that key-note should be as pure as
snow. The Blessed Damsel, as she leaned out from
the golden bar of heaven, should have had no taint
or tinge of earth about her : —

And still she bowed herself and stooped

Out of the circling charm,
Until her bosom must have made
The bar she leaned on warm.'

Doesn't that jar on you ? "

I don't think so' said Mrs Fonblanque.

Then you will hardly know what I mean when I
say that Rossetti's poems are pictures, and his pictures
poems ? "

"Hardly," said Lydia. "But that surely is what
you want if art and literature, to say nothing of
science, are to be interchangeably the same thing."

"Yes. But somehow Rossetti seems always to
employ the wrong medium for each especial thought
of his."

So we read on, hour after hour, with all the poets
on my side. It was not so easy, even in literature,
to discard love as Lydia thought.

The Xun and the Sheik were both tired of our
interminable disputations. They apparently found a
good deal to say to each other, but they were rather

cross with us at meal-times, and when they came on
deck they contrived to show us that wee had better
remain on one side.

Mrs Fonblanque discussed all the poets had said
most thoroughly, but she would never allow me to talk
about ourselves. Whenever I got tired of the books
and sent my book-box down below in a rage, Priscilla
always brought up the pretty little slave-boy I had
bought for her at Muscat. "With Priscilla's help, she
busied herself in attiring him in the Nun's dark-yellow
cloth, and while I was starving for a look or a word,
she petted him and caressed him till he was glad
enough to set back to Priscilla.

They formed a really pretty contrast, Lydia and
her slave-boy, and I plainly told her so when she
had annoyed me by petting him and caressing him
for nearly half an hour.

He sets off your pale beauty admirably," I said.
You like contrasts 1 "

Yes," she answered, patting his pretty little woolly
head. " I like contrasts, contrasts of three, for our
contrast would not be complete without you, Mr
Hector."

I don't know that," I said, rather roughly. " Look
at the Sheik and the Run. You couldn't have a
stronger contrast than that, and yet I have rarely seen
a happier couple, or a man more attentive than he is."

They do look very happy," replied Lydia, " though
I fancy Sister Patricia thinks we have both treated
her rather shabbily and selfishly of late. But there
is always something very touching in the friendship
of a young girl and an old man."

"Reverse the situation, and I'll agree most thoroughly
with you," I cried. " My uncle always used
to advise me to cultivate the society of old ladies. A
clever, experienced, sympathetic woman of the world
who has been sixty or seventy years in it, he used
to say, is the best and truest friend a very young
man can possibly have. Here, I am almost certain
my uncle was right, and the two ladies for whom I
feel the warmest regard to-day, and who have had
the greatest influence over my life, were both more
than sixty-five years old. They had the influence of
their sex without its prerogatives."

And what may be its prerogatives ? " asked Mrs
Fonblanque.

I don't know," I answered, hastily, '' and perhaps
I was talking nonsense. But those two old friends of
mine spoke with authority. They stood at one gate
of life ; I stood at the other : and then, you forget
that my mother died when I was born."

"Oh, I forgot that!" cried Lydia. "I forgot that
altogether 1 "

Then she dismissed her little slave-boy summarily,

and we spent another dreamy afternoon over our
books.

All good times, however, come to an end, and when
we reached Kurrachee I did not want to go ashore.
The Captain and the Sheik and the Nun had gone
without even asking us to accompany them. Mrs
Fonblanque didn't like being ignored, and said she
must follow them.

Oh, do stay ! " I said, " and read OA^er the bits I
marked in my Schopenhauer before breakfast. He is
as dismal as I am, but liveliness itself as compared with
the little we can see of Kurrachee from the steamer."

Schopenhauer might easily be that," replied Lydia,
smiling. " But, Hector, I can't stay now. Wliat
would they think of us. That villainous old Sheik
has simply carried them off to see whether we followed
them or not. The Nun and the Captain are both
sufficiently vexed with us to consent to be his bait,
and that treacherous old creature has set a little trap."

What do we care for his little traps ? " I answered.
When he comes back, we can show him my marked
copy of Schopenhauer, and tell him we have been
studying pessimism all day long."

Yes ; we can tell him that. We can tell him anything,"
replied Mrs Fonblanque, rising. " But I must
really go on shore now. I have to do a little shopping,
Hector. Now, don't be cross. I have not had a

chance of entering a milliner's shop for more than a
month, and you don't know what that is to a woman.
I can't stop. I must shop. Be a good boy, and call up
our old Quartermaster, and let us consult him."

It would have been a capital day for uninterrupted
study ; and, very reluctantly, I did what Mrs Fons
asked me.

The Quartermaster was delighted, and at once
volunteered to act as our guide. Then he urged us
to have an oyster luncheon to begin with. There
were half-a-dozen oyster-boats alongside ; so we had
an early tiffin on deck before we started. The Ivur-
rachel oysters are the best in the East. They are
large and fat, and rather too green in colour for
people accustomed to '' natives." Their shells are
almost as rough and clumsy as the shells of the
pearl-oysters in the Gulf. But the oysters themselves
— if you cut off their edges and eat them in
their own juice — are very good indeed ; and after a
dozen of oysters each, and a glass or two of hock, Mrs
Fonblanque and I both, I fancy, felt much happier.

I am glad that the Nun and the Sheik and Captain
Forbes have deserted us," I said, as I helped her into
the boat. " It is far nicer to be alone. This is almost
as good as Schopenhauer."

Of course it is," said Mrs Fonblanque. " Still weare
not alone after all. There's the Quartermaster."

And he very soon showed us that he was there.

This is a ' Kurrachee boat ' we are in," he said.
It has got no keel, and yet it sails closer to the
wind than any yacht I ever saw. You can't beat
Kurrachee for carriages and boats. But you mustn't
think from this that anybody ever wants to get out
of it. People come to spend a week here, and stay
till God takes them. I have been here scores of
times myself — only a day or two at a time, though,
and never long enough to feel the fascination ; but
there is a fascination, and all the Kurrachee people
say that they have the finest, or almost the finest,
climate in the world."

AVell," I answered, " you have almost the finest
climate anywhere in the East. But you must go
straight up — two or three miles or so — to get at it ;
and that is the difficulty."

But the Quartermaster, having made up his mind
to show us all the beauties of Kurrachee, was not
to be put out by the trifling difference of a mile
or two.

He waved his hand vaguely round the horizon.

That," he said, " is Manor, with its big lighthouse
and little church. You ought to see the fun the picnic
parties have there in the turtle-turning season ! "

What is turtle-turning ? " asked Mrs Fonblanque.

Oh, the turtles — and fine big turtles they are too —

waddle ashore here to lay their eggs. You can catch
them easily between ten and twelve o'clock at night,
at the right time of year ; and as that isn't a bad time
for a picnic, the ladies here are fond of coming down to
the sands for a picnic, and a stroll, and a little turtle-catching
afterwards. The turtle "

Never mind the turtle," cried ]airs Fonblanque.
'• AVe are going to be shipwrecked ! "

The Quartermaster resigned the tiller to a native
boatman, and we were soon on shore, and then it was
all plain sailing.

The Kurrachee carriages were excellent. They were
big roomy barouches that must have originally belonged
to rajahs and princes. There where two horses
in each of them, and each of them had two flower-worked
cushions in the back seat. Lydia chose a
carriage from the attractiveness of its cushions. I
chose one because the cattle looked really " fit."
Eventually we compromised, and selected the carriage
that stood between the two we fancied. The
Quartermaster got up on the box.

We had landed at Kiamari, and we drove alone a
causeway with mangrove swamps and stagnant waters
on either side. We passed through the big gates of
the Custom-house. Then we came to the old town,
crowded with Sinai men walking about in gilt hats
that looked like our chimney - pot hats, with the

brim where the crown ought to be; and by-and-by
we reached the European quarters.

Their architecture is rather funny, Lydia," I said.
What is it ? "

Anglo-Indian," answered the Quartermaster from
the box, without a moment's hesitation.

I daresay he was right. The funny-looking buildings
that dotted the dusty roads on either side might
be Anglo-Indian, or Hindu-Saracenic, or ,
for what I cared. Whatever they were, they
seemed to be in keeping with their surroundings.
Dry mud, and clouds of dust, and plains of drifting
sand were the characteristics of Kurraehee, and its
architects had symbolised its characteristics most
successfully. But we were entering the bounds of
civilisation just then. I looked around me, and then
I looked at Lydia, and 1 was quite content.

It was nothing to me now that the landscape was
grey instead of green, and that there was not a tree ora
flower or even a blade of grass within sight. The sky
might have been pea-green and the country sky-blue,
for anything I cared. .,

Everywhere well-dressed English people were driving
about in their carriages, handsome English women,
comely and very haughty and pretty bright-eyed
English girls. They stared at us languidly for a
moment. But when they saw Lydia they all seemed

to be suddenly struck by her beauty. I told the
coachman to go slowly through the European quarter.
Lydia had her shopping to do, and was clever enough
to know that men hate shopping with ladies. However,
we went so slowly that we were always coming
out at the Free Hall or the Club, or a long low church
with a huge square tower over it that looked in the
brilliant sunlight like the gnomon on a sun-dial.

I thought we should have fallen in with the Sheik's
party, but wee saw nothing of them, and heard nothing.

Ampere shall we go now. Quartermaster ? " I asked,
when Mrs Fonblanque announced that she was tired of
the Kurrachee shops.

To Mugger Peer, the crocodile pool," he replied.
It is only six or seven miles off, and there is nothing
else worth seeing."

That will make us rather late," said Mrs Fons


So much the better," I answered. " I should like
to give the stun a good fright, and pay her out for deserting
you."

We drove along a level plain of loose clay soil,
overrun with prickly-pear, until we came to a gap
in some barren rocky hills, seven or eight hundred
feet high. The road was tolerably good, though in
the pass it seemed to follow the bed of an old ravine.
Beneath a white mosque, on a great rock, a number of

natives were bathing in some little pools of mineral
water, which was so hot that we could scarcely keep
our hands in it. Then, for about a mile more, the road
wound rather prettily through a grove of date-trees
and tamarinds and mangoes ; and at last we came
to a little swamp, some eighty yards broad and perhaps
twice as long. The green, slimy, stagnant water
was literally filled with alligators. They were packed
as close as herrings in a barrel, and when we got out of
our carriage they all, with one movement, turned their
long snouts in our direction.

]airs Fonblanque gave a little shiver as she took my
arm. " What a dreadful sight ! " she said. " ' Slimy
things did crawl with legs upon a slimy sea ! ' What
disgusting creatures ! "

The natives worship them, ma'am," said the Quartermaster.
" If we walk round to the mosque on the
other side, you can buy a goat from the priests, and
then you will see them properly."

We had not gone more than twenty or thirty yards
when Mrs Fonblanque gave a start. Just below us,
seated on a log, we saw an Englishman. He had a bag
of biscuits in his hand, and he was feeding the alligators
with them. When they came too close he gave
them a rap over the head with his stick, and he was so
absorbed in his occupation that he did not notice us
till I touched his arm.

Excuse me, sir," I said, " we are strangers, and
anxious to learn something about this curious place
and these strange animals."

He looked at me in a very dejected manner — and he
was a melancholy-looking man at the best — but he
said nothing. He rose to his feet, threw the bag of
biscuits into the pool, and then slowly walked
away.

You have offended the poor man," exclaimed Mrs
Fonblanque. " Do follow him and beg his pardon."

•' The lady," I said, " has asked me to apologise for
disturbing you."

Oh, if there is a lady ! " he answered. " I did not
know that there was a lady "

Then he took his hat off to Mrs Fonblanque.

I'm afraid you must think me a fool," he continued.


No, indeed I don't," cried Mrs Fonblanque. " I
was only wondering why you fed the alligators. It
seemed rather queer "

' Father queer,' ' Tatler queer,' " said the poor
man, sighing. " That's what they all say of me at
Kurrachee. But I have been feeding human sharks
all my life, and now that I have nothing left, I have
taken to feeding the alligators."

"What kind of sharks were they?" asked Mrs
Fonblanque.

Gold-mining sharks," he replied bitterly, " and
date-coffee sharks. These were the last two kinds."

The old gentleman had evidently a bee in his
bonnet. But he explained himself readily enough
later on. Just now he made it his business to show
Mrs Fonblanque all that there was to be seen. Under
his instructions a goat was brought out and slaughtered.
Mrs Fonblanque turned her head away, but
the moment the blood flowed into the water all the
alligators made a rush for the bank. There were
some two hundred of these hideous creatures. They
measured from eight to fifteen feet each. They
formed a horrible spectacle as they fought savagely
but sluggishly for the bits of flesh thrown to them by
the priests. Sometimes they crawled close up to us,
and then the priests' little children beat them off with
sticks.

They are quite harmless," said the old Englishman,
" and very tame. A foolhardy young officer
ran over them, from back to back, for a wager once ;
and to the left there you can see a number of buffaloes
lying down among them."

How did they come here at all ? " inquired Mrs
Fonblanque.

That nobody knows," he answered ; " and the odd
thing about them is, that they are quite different from
the alligators in the Indus. The priests here have a

legend that the Mugger Peer was formed by four
saints, all brothers. One struck a hot spring out of
the mud with his wand. The second changed a flower
into an alligator. The third stuck his walking-stick
into the ground, and so led to the dense grove of date-palms
around us "

And the fourth ? "

I forget," he said. " My memory is gone. But
the lady can have tea," he continued, brightening
up suddenly. " There is a Parsee bungalow here
now."

So we had tea brought out to us under the trees,
and Mrs Fonblanque encouraged our guest to talk
about Kurrachee.

The water-works ! " he exclaimed at last. " Of
course you ought to see the water-works. There are
great rivers here, but no water. The mouths of the
Indus extend for a hundred and twenty miles, but
they are generally dry and thirsty, and gaping for
rain."

That rather puzzled me when we came in," I
answered. " I had always looked upon the Indus as
one of the biggest rivers in the world."

So it is," he said, " barring the water. The water
flows below in great subterranean channels. An
engineer struck the ground with his rod, much as
Moses struck the rock ; the water flowed out lavishly.

and now we have more water in Kurrachee than we
want."

That almost sounds like a fairy tale of science."

And so it is," he replied, " a fairy tale that no one
would have believed here three or four years ago. But
the engineer went on. He dug a couple of deep wells
beneath the dry bed of the Mair river, and so tapped
an enormous underground reservoir that drains six
hundred square miles of country. Then he constructed
a conduit seventeen miles long, and now,
when the Kurrachee people turn the taps in their
houses, they draw their water fresh and cool from the
bowels of the earth, and from reservoirs so large that
the supply is simply inexhaustible."

"These huge underground rivers," I observed,
must play havoc down below."

Oh," he said, " what we see of the world is, after
all, only its epidermis. There are terrible powers of
fire and water lurking in the rocks down below.
When they force their way to the surface, they bring
strange revelations with them. Look at the hot
springs of Peer Mango, which you must have passed
on the way down. They are as full of medicines as a
doctor's shop. There is a cure in them for every disease
under the sun. Some day some one will strike
the sources of the Spring of Perpetual Youth ! And
then "

He is mad," whispered the Quartermaster, coming
quietly up to me. " The driver says he is well known
in Kurrachee, and that he is as mad as a hatter."

Is there nothing else to see in the town ? " asked
Mrs Fonblanque.

Well," he replied, " you might drive out to Clifton,
and you ought certainly to go over the Club. It is
the most hospitable little club in India, and one of the
most comfortable, and I belonged to many Indian
clubs before I invested in date-coffee."

You mentioned that before," said Mrs Fonblanque.
What is date-coffee ? "

It was supposed to be calcined dates and date-stones,
and, judging from the large cargoes of dates
that were brought down here to be burnt up in the
factory, we thought it was a prodigious success. The
process was kept a profound secret. But when the
concern burst up, the secret was a very simple one.
Date-coffee was real coffee sold for half its value, with
a little date-dust added instead of chicor}^ It paid
the promoters and ruined me."

By this time the sun was sinking. Mrs Fonblanque
offered our unhappy companion a seat in the carriage,
but he preferred to walk. He always walked down
from Kurrachee and back ; for, as he naively put it, he
had really nothing else to do.

VOL. IL I

Chapter XXXI.

AYe left our unlucky but not uninteresting friend
on the banks of the alligator swamp, and it looked
gloomier than ever when the dark curtain of night
had fallen over the black rocky hills that surrounded
the little palm-grove about it.

The alligators had rather frightened Mrs Fons
But now we had our backs to them. The
sun had set suddenly, as it always does in the East,
except in the winter months. The young moon was
well up in the horizon ; the trees at first, and then the
rocky hills, cast weird fantastic shadows all around
us, and the evening air was very fresh and pleasant.
As we lay back lazily in our big roomy carriage we
seemed to be completely alone. We talked dream-fully
of the future — that future of three or four weeks
at most — awaiting us in India ; and then we were
silent. But it was happiness enough for me to sit in
this familiar way beside Lydia, to feel the touch of
her garments as they rustled against me, and to know

from her eyes when they met mine that she was really
thmkmg of me.

"We are both very lazy and languid," she said suddenly.
"What castles are you building in the air,
Hector ? What were you thinking of as I spoke ? "

Of you," I answered. " I was lost in that cloud

of thoughts and feelings common to both of us. I

was going over all our old days again, and, just as you

spoke, I had come to what you said of the palm-trees

at Bussorah —

Leurs amours
Vont sur les ailes de la brise,
De Adamant ignore toujours
A romance toujours surprise.'

And you said you hoped they were happy."

Oh," she laughed, " and you actually remember the
words ! "

Yes, I remember everything. But, Lydia," I cried,
your laws are too harsh for me, and too inflexible. I
have promised to obey you, and I will keep my promise.
But now and then, on rare occasions like this,
we surely needn't be such formal friends. You don't
know how I wish that last Sunday night were here
again, or how I am longing to touch your hand
now ! "

"No, I don't know," she answered, softly. "But
perhaps, Hector, I can guess."

Then her hand touched my sleeve very shyly, and
so fell gently into mine.

This is almost like Sunday night," I whispered.

"ISTo, no; it is not," she said, trying to take her
hand away from me. " It is too bad of you, Hector.
I didn't mean you to keep it."

I don't see what harm that can do," I replied.
We shall be at Kurrachee directly."

Harm ? No," she answered, " of course not. But
you should not be so absurdly wilful."

I had my own way all the same, and her little hand
lay lightly in mine until we reached the pier at Klia-
mari; and this contact with her, slight as it was,
seemed somehow to make our thoughts go together,
and to transmit thrilling little messages from her forme
to guess at.

As we drove under a lamp-post, I noticed that her
lips were smiling faintly ; and she said in her turn,
Why are you smiling too ? "

I was thinking of happier men than myself — men
who are driving about now all over the world, with
their little wives nestling close beside them, in the
moonlight, and in the dark, and even in broad daylight
; and of happy women who allow their husbands
sometimes to put an arm around them for a moment
when their coachmen are not looking."

That was very wrong of you," said Lydia gravely.

I must be stricter, I see, and it is lucky our drive
is over. Why, good gracious, here they all are waiting
for us 1 "

You haven't gone off, then ? " cried the Captain.

"Gone off? What do you mean, sir?" exclaimed
Mrs Fonblanque, with her grey eyes flashing.

I beg your pardon," he said. " The Sheik and the
Nun were both certain you had gone off, and we were
just driving down to the station to see."

What a piece of impertinence ! " cried Mrs Fons
turning sharply round on the Nun. " And
what business would it have been of yours, madam, if
I had ' gone off,' as you call it ? "

I never called it that, dear," said the Nun. " 1
am very sorry. Please, please forgive me. I couldn't
help being frightened when it struck nine o'clock. I
was afraid something had happened to you, and persuaded
the gentlemen to go and see."

Thank you," cried Mrs Fonblanque. " I am not
in the habit of 'going off' with strange gentlemen.
And if a freak of that kind were to enter my head, I
should scarcely invite a quartermaster to be one of
the party. Perhaps you will be good enough to seeme
off to the steamer, Mr Hicks," she added.

"Surely you will come in my gig?" said the Captain.


I will do nothing of the sort," she answered, shortly.

"You all desert us in the morning; you throw us
on our own resources ; and when we come back tired
out in the evening, you are waiting on the steps to insult
us ! "

It's that watched old Sheik," she said, as we took
our seats in one of the many boats that plied for hire.
But I'd no idea it was later than seven. We ought
not to have stayed till nine. "VVe went out to play
propriety, and we had far better have stopped onboard
and read Schopenhauer."

I don't think the Xun is to blame," I suggested.

Not to blame ! " cried Mrs Fonblanque. " I suppose
you like being told that the whole of the ship's
company imagined we had gone off?"

'•' I don't see why we should mind," I said. " I am
only sorry for one thing."

"What?"

That the whole ship's company were so thoroughly
mistaken."

I was scolded severely for this. But nevertheless
we had a very pleasant little supper afterwards, and I
was selfish enough not to remonstrate when Lydia declared
she meant to send the Nun and the Sheik and
the Captain to Coventry for the rest of our voyage.
She did not quite keep her word ; but we saw as little
of them as we could, and spent most of our time over
our books.

After all, a really intellectual friendship, like yours
and mine, is very pleasant," said Mrs Fonblanque one
evening, as our coffee was brought up to us on deck.
I have learned a great deal in the last two or three
days ; and, incidentally, you must have learned something
too ? "

Of course I have," I answered. " Your friendship
is an education in itself. But it is not everything.
Schopenhauer says that friendship should — — "

"Ah, but we are not all Schopenhauer, and you,
sir, least of all. You are an optimist, and I always
try to be one. He belonged to the dismal school, and
it did not matter two straws to any one but himself,
and his digestion perhaps, what he said."

Wait a moment," I urged. " Friendship, genuine
friendship, is, according to Schopenhauer, who was a
philosopher after all, a mixture of selfishness and sympathy.
The selfishness is the pleasure you yourself
feel in the presence of an individuality corresponding
to your own "

And you feel that ? " said Lydia.

I am sure I do," I answered. " But then there is
the sympathy. That you enjoy in sharing your
friend's pleasures and griefs, and in an incessant sacrifice
of yourself."

I don't think I should mind Schopenhauer's kind
of friendship," said Lydia. "^Y\mt does he say of

love, now ? A pessimist's idea of love ought to be a
good tonic for you, Hector ; and though we have agreed
not to talk of love at all, I fancy that Schopenhauer's
idea of love, if you explain it to me exactly, will prevent
you trying to talk foolishly by-and-by."

"It would, if I really believed him," I replied
But I don't ; and I am sure you won't believe him
either. He agrees most thoroughly in our wretched
passenger's theory of heredity, and even brutalises it a
little. Love is an instinct. We eat and drink, and
sleep and love. That is all."

*' What a horrible system of philosophy ! " cried mrs
Fonblanque.

*' I thought you would not like it."

I was sure I should not. I only wanted it as a
tonic for you."

"Every Jack," I continued, "has his Jill of some
sort. You fall in love. You are a fool for your pains.
You are only instigated, though you don't know it, by
the bygone generations, and are only preparing for
the next. You work for the good of the species."

What a dreadful man ! "

"Not altogether," I said. "His theory m extremis
is rather pretty. Every Jack has his Jill. For each
particular woman in the world there is one particular
man who corresponds to her most closely. If they
happen to meet, they love each other passionately, and

their love is as rare and strange as the chance of their
meeting at all. And that is the love the poets and
idealists are always raving about — the love of the
story-books."

Schopenhauer never married, I fancy ? " said Lydia.

"No."

That was lucky for his Jill, then. Women don't
care for absurd theories and cases in extremis, I rather
liked what he said about friendship, but Schopenhauer
talks nonsense about love. The stars, Mr Hicks ? "

The stars ! " I exclaimed. " And why the stars ? "

Well, you and Schopenhauer together have rather
ruffled me to-night. I should like to rise into a
serene atmosphere for a while; and in spite of the
moonlight, the stars to-night are very beautiful. The
infinitely great and the infinitely little ! Do you
remember what some poet says about the infinitely
great and the infinitely little ? Each star above us in
all those myriads is a world in itself, and so is every
drop of water in the sea beneath. With the telescope in
one hand and the microscope in the other, science is
beginning to tell us what we are worth."

Now you are worse than Schopenhauer," I cried.
Leave science alone, and go to the poets for instruction."


What do they say about the stars, then ? "

"What don't they say? Only take Heine. He

knew how to read the stars aright. They told him
nothing of the infinitely great and the infinitely little ;
but they told lira exactly what he wanted to know."

"And what was it he wanted to know?" asked
Lydia.

"He wrote what he wanted to say with a brittle
reed on the sands, and the tide crept up and the
waves washed over it. Then from some vast Norwegian
pine-forest the giants, who were his puppets, tore
up the tallest and mightiest pine-tree there. They
plunged it deep into Etna's glowing abysm, and with
this fiery-pointed pen they wrote on the dark veil of
heaven, in stars and constellations that will remain
throughout eternity — ' Lydia, I love you ! ' "

Mr Hicks," cried Lydia, " you really shouldn't talk
like that ; and you must see that Heine's idea, however
pretty and poetical, is far too forcibly put. He
wrote of Agnes, if you please, sir, and his poem has
nothing to do with you or me."

He wrote for all time," I answered. " There the
stars and constellations are, and we may each spell
them out in our own language."

Ah ! but you forget one thing. They were there
long before Heine," she replied. " I don't want to go
away to the Xun and make friends again ; but I shall
do so unless you promise to be reasonable. I tried to
talk about friendship ; I let you quote Schopenhauer

about love ; then we talked about the stars ; and you
will talk about me. I told you the day before yesterday
that we must not talk about each other. Let us
be silent, as I used to say when you would talk about
yourself ; or, if you can't be silent, let us talk about —
well, let us talk about the moon."

"Oh, I could quote the poets there again if I
liked," I cried. " But as you don't like them, I won't.
Last time, however, that I was in America, I came
across the prettiest description of the moon I have
ever read. We had dined off grilled bacon, and everybody
else had dozed away round the camp-fire afterwards.
I couldn't sleep, and I had nothing to read
but the greasy bit of a badly-printed American newspaper
in which the bacon had been wrapped. There
was a big moon at the time, and this queer extract
struck me as being singularly beautiful."

There is nothing about me in it ? " asked Lydia.

Nothing," I replied. " It is all about the moon."

Well, tell me what you remember."

I remember the whole of it, for I was awake long
enough to learn the passage by heart. Here it is,
Americanisms and all : ' No one ever gets tired of
the moon. Goddess that she is by dower of her
eternal beauty, she is a true woman by her tact —
knows the charm of being seldom seen, of coming
by surprise and staying but a little while; never

wears the same dress two nights running, nor all
night the same way ; commends herself to the matter-of-fact
people by her usefulness, and makes her usefulness
adored by poets, artists, and all lovers in all
lands ; lends herself to every symbolism and to every
emblem ; is Diana's bow, and Venus's mirror, and
Mary's throne; is a sickle, a scarf, an eyebrow, his
face or her face, as looked at by her or him ; is the
madman's hell, the poet's heaven, the baby's toy, the
philosopher's study ; and while her admirers follow
her footsteps and hang on her lovely looks, she knows
how to keep her woman's secret — her other side — unguessed
and unguessable.' "

There, Hector 1 " she cried. " Stop there, please !
You mean me ? I know you mean me. I have no
other side, though. I never saw Mr Wylie before the
night of that wretched dinner-party at Bussorah."

No, dear," I answered — and in our excitement she
forgot to chide me for speaking in this way — " I really
wasn't thinking of you, and I had forgotten Mr Wylie
completely. I only repeated, like a parrot, a few lines
of rugged prose that struck my fancy very much when
I spelt them out over a camp-fire in the backwoods
years ago."

But you trust me, Hector ? " she asked. " You
trust me thoroughly ? You will never, never mention
Mr Wylie's name again ? "

Never," I answered. " But look at the moon,
Lydia. Do you know the meaning of all the strange
Hues and marks on its surface ? "

'No," said Lydia, coming a little closer to me, so as
to see what I meant.

"Look steadily at them, and you will be able to
make out the violin-player in the moon. You can
always see the outline of his figure. If you listen very
carefully you can hear his music; and he plays the
most delicious music that anybody on earth ever hears."

I can't hear him, and I can't see him," said Lydia,
looking up.

Ah ! but if you were in Hungary, on a night like
this, you would hear him, and see him too. There all
the young lovers steal out far away from the old
people, and wait beneath the lindens to listen to his
playing. They watch the moon, as we are watching
now, but closer, closer "

And when do they hear the music ? "

When their lips meet, Lydia," I cried. I looked
into her eyes for a moment. Then I kissed her.

She escaped from me with a little sob.

'that was brutal," she said. 'rafter what had
passed, and what we promised, you should never
have dared to try aid kiss me again. I told you
I couldn't love you, and you should never have tried
to kiss me after that. Oh, Hector, what shall I do ?

What can I do ? I can't even trust you now, and I
can scarcely trust myself. It all went on so pleasantly
for the last two or three days, and now you have spoilt
it all, and we shall have to give up our plans about
the picture. Why, why did you cheat me like this ? "

"I couldn't help it," I answered. "Just then, I
couldn't help it."

Perhaps not," said Lydia, very gently. " But if you
could not help it, it must have been all my fault."

ISTo, no, Lydia 1 " I cried. " But to-night is our
last night on board. I don't think we should quarrel
on our last night."

No," she said, thoughtfully, " I don't think we
should. I don't think I am bound to do that. It
would be a shame and a pity to quarrel on our last
night on board."

Everything," I urged, " will be quite different on
shore."

Oh ! perhaps it will be," she exclaimed. " I hadn't
thought of that. We shall be in the world again.
We shall be lost, you and I, in a crowd of other
people, and of course everything must be different."

But how terribly different everything was to be,
neither of us guessed.

It was a little after mid-day when we entered
Bombay harbour. The blue islands, and deep blue
hills behind them, were all bathed in what Shelley

calls the purple noon's transparent light. The stately
buildings on shore glistened and glittered in the sunshine.
We anchored off a large picturesque Swiss
cottage, which was, we were told, the Yacht Club.
Directly after dropping anchor, the ship was filled
with horse-dealers and sweetmeat sellers and touts, and
natives in huge turbans who came to meet their
friends on board.

Captain Forbes found time in all this hurly-burly
to advise us to go ashore quietly at once, and he
kindly promised to dine with us at the hotel in the
evening, and to bring with him all the heavy luggage
we needed.

Won't you come too, Sheik ? " said Mrs Fons
when the Quartermaster announced that a
steam-launch was waiting for us.

I think not," he replied. " I think I shall stay onboard
and go back in the steamer."

Oh ! but you thought you were going back from
Muscat," said Mrs Fonblanque, laughing, "and you
were good enough to come on when I challenged you
to go round the world with me, so as to have time
enough to tell me all your reminiscences."

Things change," he answered, gravely. " I shall
stop here and smoke my hookah till they turn the
ship round. Then I shall go back to Fatima and
Zuleika and ISToor Mainland

the rest of them ? " cried Mrs Fonblanque.

"And the rest of them," he replied. "You have
not spoken to me for the last three days, Madam Fons
and I may as well keep the rest of my
reminiscences to myself."

What a vindictive old creature ! " cried Mrs Fons
" I care nothing for what becomes of him,
and I hope they will all comb his grey hair properly
when he gets back to his harem. The old wretch !
I'll have him brought on shore tomorrow, and bring
him to his bearings myself."

Then, as the Quartermaster hurried us over the side,
she turned to the Nun. " I hope you didn't feel huffed
and neglected too, dear ? "

No, no," said the Nun. " I am very sorry to leave
the ship in which you and Mr Hicks have been so
good to me. It will be dreadful to have to start again
in a new ship with strange people."

Oh 1 " exclaimed Mrs Fonblanque, patting her arm
gently, " you must just wait here till Mr Hicks's portrait
of me is done. I should like you to see it, dear ;
you must be my guest till then. There will be
plenty of time after that for strange ships and new
people. We were a very pleasant party on board, and
111 pay that old Sheik out for his surliness by-and-by."


The hotel was much better and much larger than I

expected ; and we secured a couple of capital sitting-rooms,
one of which, from its ample lights, might really
have been designed for a studio.

I am like the Nun, I hate changes. Hector," said
Lydia, after the Nun had been happily disposed of,
and I didn't at all like having to leave that dear old
ship. But we must make the best of it; we ought
to have a happy time, after all, by-and-by, when you
really set to work on the picture. Do you remember
how crossly I declined to let you paint my portrait
when we were off Bussorah, and what I said about
impressions ten days old ? "

Yes," I answered ; " and that, after all, was only
ten days ago."

Hasn't the time slipped by since then ? " she continued.
" It is only ten days ago, and it seems something
like half a lifetime ! I never fancied then that
we should ever be such friends as we are now."

There was a frank winning smile in her grey eyes
as she spoke, that almost seemed to follow me through
the dark shadows in the narrow sunlit streets when
I left her to tell her agents, who had an office not
very far off, to look after all the wonderful purchases
of which Priscilla had been left in charge on board
the steamer.

Wlien I entered the hotel again I saw Lydia talking
to a gentleman in a corner of the vestibule. The hall

VOL. n. K

was very dull and gloomy after the bright sunlight
outside. But there she was; she was talking very
earnestly indeed, and as I came up she had just
caught hold of the man's sleeve and held it tightly
in her hand.

I ran forward, and could not for the life of me help
hearing what she said.

"Anything but that," I heard her say, "and any
terms you like. But give me time to think ! Give
me time ! "

I could not act as a spy upon her. I could listen
no longer. I walked on slowly. She heard my footsteps.
She dropped the man's sleeve and turned
round suddenly. She looked at me with a scared
white face, and then she caught at the balusters.

Ah ! here is your friend," said the strange gentleman,
politely.

I recognised him at once. I knew his face before
he turned towards me.

She was talking to Mr Wylie of Bussorah.

'' Sir ! " I cried.

He lifted his hat courteously to Mrs Fonblanque,
and withdrew towards the doorway.

I tried to follow him, but Mrs Fonblanque clutched
me by the arm.

Don't go. Hector ! " she said, almost passionately.
"Don't go just yet! Give me time to think. Just

now I can scarcely stand." Then she almost stumbled,
and I caught her.

I must follow him," I said, sternly. " I must
learn the meaning of your mystery. Good God !
last night, only last night, you made me promise
never to mention his name again, and I believed in
you as I never believed in any woman. Let me go !
Let me go ! I tell you, let me go ! "

If you go," said Lydia, " I will never, never speak
to you again. Oh, Hector, stay and help me. Help
me to help myself 1 "

Tell me what it all means, then ! " I cried. " And
tell me why that man AVylie is here, and why you
sent me away on a fool's errand so as to be able to
meet him alone ? "

I didn't do that ! I could never do that ! I
never knew that he was here," she answered. " I
swear I didn't. How could I know he was here
when I thought he was at Bussorah ? I got tired of
waiting for you, Hector, and I was only coming to
see why you were so long, when he met me abruptly
round the corner."

Stop ! " I said. " If there is a mystery, Lydia,
Lydia dear, explain it yourself. But if you won't
explain it, I must drag it out of him ! I will throttle
him and shake him, and make him speak if you
won't ; "

Lyclia was silent. Her grey eyes were wonderfully
pathetic ; but she said nothing.

Sir ! " I shouted, as I saw him slowly sauntering
through the doorway. " A minute or two with you,
sir, if you please ! I can take no denial ! "

He paused for a moment, and he waited on the doorsill
with a sardonic smile on his face as he looked back
at both of us.

He is waiting, Lydia ! " I exclaimed. " Tell me
everything yourself ! Nothing you can say can possibly
be so dreadful as this suspense ! "

Let us end it, then," said Lydia, recovering herself
with an effort. " There can be no trust without confidence,
and you have neither. But you ought to know
what you are about, Mr Hicks. If you like to say
good-bye, you can say it."

Good-bye, then, good-bye I " I cried.

Good-bye 1 " she said. " Think of the past sometimes,
Hector, and of all our pleasant days ! "

No," I answered. " I can think of nothing but
the future. I can think of nothing but your mystery,
and of you and that man in the doorway."

It must be good-bye, then," she said, very, very
gently, as I wrenched myself free.

She fell for a moment against the staircase, and fora
moment I stopped. There was a look in her eyes
that reminded me afterwards of the look in the eyes

of some timid hunted animal at bay. I would not
touch her outstretched hand. But I shall never forget
the ashen-grey mask that shrouded her beautiful,
pale, set face.

Then I rushed madly through the doorway into
the street, intent only on wringing the truth out of
that dreadful man, who by his lies and innuendoes had
come between us. But Mr Wylie had gone ! There
was no trace of him. None of the people in the
hotel, or the men who hung about it, knew anything
of him. I reached the street. I drove round to all
the other hotels in the Fort. I could hear nothing
of him ; but as I came back an hour afterwards, the
native clerk who had brought us all off from the
steamer put a little pencil-note into my hand. It
was written from the railway station, and there were
only a few words : " Good-bye ! There are tears for
you and me, and it is your fault, not mine. Goodbye
! "

Has the lady gone ? " I asked, eagerly.

Yes," said the messenger. *' We were just in time
to catch the train."

I tried to think. I couldn't think. I felt stunned.
Lydia had gone. That was enough for me. I must
go too — no matter where. I must do something? or
go mad. The messenger stared so indifferently at me
that I could hardly help pulling him off his seat

beside the driver. Fresh people began to come into
the hotel, and they frowned at us for keeping the
doorway. Suddenly I remembered that I had a
very dear friend living somewhere in Bombay. The
messenger knew his name at once, and told our
coachman to drive us as fast as he could to the
Bulla Club.

CHAPTER XXXII.

My impressions for the next few days were vague but
singular. I seemed to live in an opium-eater's hell or
heaven, with my faculties more than usually alert,
whilst I was myself supremely lethargic. Night
followed day, and day followed night, and the panorama
rolled on as if in one long exhausting dream,
haunted night and day by visions of Lydia as I had
left her crouching in her white drapery against the
public stairway of a common hotel. Just as in a dream,
too, time seemed to be altogether annihilated. The present,
as it slipped by, was strange and gorgeous and magnificent,
but not at all interesting to me personally.

I found Tom Thornton, one of my oldest and latest
schoolboy friends, luxuriously reclining upon a long
chair in front of his chambers at the Bulla Club.
He was buying diamonds from a native merchant.
Tom always used to be engrossed in making bargains,
even in our schoolboy days, and never more triumphant
than when he was being thoroughly cheated.

His face changed, though, when he saw me. He recognised
me at once, and hurried off the diamond-merchant
and his men in double-quick time. Then
we clasped hands.

Poor old chap I " he said. " You are ' hipped.' You
want change of air, and change of scene, and change
of people. I had just made up my mind not to go to
Baroda. But perhaps I had better go there, after all,
and take you with me. It will be one incessant
whirl of amusement for a month, and that is exactly
what you require. A little wholesome dissipation
will settle all your morbid fancies. The train starts
at 8.30. Can you come ? "

Come ! I had no alternative. I let him send off to
the steamer and the hotel for my luggage, and at
seven o'clock next morning, after a most miserable
night passed in a comfortable and well - arranged
sleeping-carriage, we reached Baroda.

I could not sleep. I pulled the heavy wooden
blinds down, but I could not shut out the moon, and the
violin-player in the moon ; and I could not even help
wondering if Lydia too thought of his music, as we
were flying from one another across India in different
directions. What fools we had been ! Thornton was
right. A little wholesome dissipation might do me a
world of good. I would take Baroda as a tonic, and
then go on to Thibetan Tartary and forget Lydia and

myself in the narrow cell of some remote Buddhist
monastery.

The moonlit country, whenever in my sleeplessness
I lifted the heavy Venetian blinds, was, however, very
homelike, with its rich pastures and ample park-lands
and broad rivers, and more like Kent than India.
My childish days with Edith flashed across me. Then
I thought of Lydia's grey eyes, and the sorrow in
them, and the scorn, when she had begged me to stay
and help her, and then bade me go because I had
neither trust nor confidence. Then, of course, I
thought of Mr Wylie, and then somehow I dozed off
to sleep, and Thornton had a little trouble in arousing
me when at last we reached Baroda.

The Governor of Bombay, or somebody else equally
important, was, it seems, in our train, and a curious
scene was prepared for him in front of the station,
which was itself brilliantly decorated with flowers and
flags and flowing drapery. The square outside was
lined with native troops, on foot and on horseback.
The infantry wore long yellow coats and extraordinary
shakes ; the cavalry, or lancers rather, had sky-blue
uniforms. In one corner, jealously guarded by their
own picturesque attendants, the Sirdars or petty
potentates stood haughtily aloof, their gay silk costumes
and jewelled head-dresses forming an artistic
point of colour in the picture. The rest of the square

was thronged with sightseers in white robes and
broad turbans, red and blue and white, but mostly
red.

I was still rubbing my eyes when Thornton seized
me by the arm and led me out of the station.

Is my elephant ready ? " he cried, just as though
he were asking if the hansom had come up to the
door. A dozen scarlet-coated attendants salaried obsequiously,
and escorted us to a row of huge elephants,
painted, for the occasion, in every colour of the rainbow,
and, as we came up, all kneeling humbly on the
ground. Men with light silver ladders courteously
urged us to take our seats ; but Thornton, much more
particular than I could ever have fancied, answered
their invitations brusquely, and selected the bulkiest
and most loudly-decorated elephant of the lot — a big
beast, with a many-coloured trunk, a saffron forehead,
and a howdah that glittered in the early morning
sun like burnished gold.

Two brilliant creatures in crimson fanned us from
behind with yaks' tails and great bunches of peacocks'
feathers ; and then, at a word from Thornton, a gorgeously
attired mahout in front struck his sharp spear-like
battle-axe deep into a well-worn hole in our elephant's
broad head. Amidst the beating of tom-toms
and the fanfare of barbaric wind - instruments, we
started, with that important personage the Governor

of Bombay, or whatever else he was, driving before us
in solitary grandeur in the Gaekwar's pretty little
gold and silver pony-carriage.

The Sirdars bowed. The troops, regular and irregular,
foot and horse, presented arms as best they could.
The crowd, like a field of overgrown poppies, shook
their red turbans as they roared lustily out, and before
we knew where we were, I found myself looking into
the upper windows of the main street in Baroda, and
unconsciously studying the minutest details of Hindu
domestic life at an inconveniently early hour.

The crowds in the street, too, were, to a traveller
fresh from Europe vit the desert, very acquaint and
novel. Most of the people were tall, handsome, fine-featured
men, in broad turbans and flowing white
robes. But naked fakirs, smeared all over, head and
face and body, with white ashes, stood at the street
corners. Snake-charmers, with flat wicker-work baskets
full of cobras, crouched down here and there,
keeping the snakes in order by an adroit pat now and
again upon their extended hoods. ISTear them we saw
the Gaekwar's wrestlers, big brawny lusty fellows,
and his dancing-girls, and conjurers, and acrobats, and
falconers, the last carrying their hawks on their
wrists. The whole place swarmed with Brahmins,
who lived for the most part, so Thornton said, on the
bread and rice doled out to them at the palace gates

every morning, as a pious immemorial custom. They
were scattered plentifully through the streets, or clustered
round the innumerable shrines and temples, in
which their female devotees, unmindful of the unusual
din and bustle outside, prayed stolidly, or walked
slowly round and round, as beasts walk in a menagerie,
until they fancied their prayers were answered
or their penances had all been duly accomplished.
At times a sacred bull, white and fat and sleek,
forced his way through the people. Peacocks, almost
as sacred, plumed their feathers and spread out their
broad tails, wherever they could be seen to most advantage.
Green parrots, blue doves, chattering minas,
and the ubiquitous and impertinent Indian crow, all
took a lively interest in the scene, as they flew, flurried
and startled, a little above it ; and down below,
the pariah dogs, the city scavengers, slouched away,
hideous and obscene. Low-caste women, busy with
their household duties, had been suddenly caught and
held by this motley crowd, just as they were, with their
great brass pots and tall clay jars nicely poised on their
heads.

They had come from some lotus-covered tank close
to, and though the crowd cared nothing for them, they
were wonderfully picturesque to a stranger. They
were low-caste girls, out-castes if you like; but, as
they balanced their water-jars on their heads, their

upraised round brown arms almost drew their scanty
cotton bodices up from under their shapely breasts,
leaving their waists quite bare. In spite of the hustling
they got, they were all as sedate as their betters.
But they shrieked a little, just as servant-girls might
shriek at home, whenever the crowd parted to give
passage to a couple of hoodwinked cheetahs, snarling
at each other as they were dragged along by their
keepers. Like English maid - servants, again, they
hung for the most part round the ends of such side
streets as happened to be blocked by the Gaekwar's
horsemen, whose gaily caparisoned, camel-necked, caracoling
horses could scarcely be held in check. Other
women carefully escorted, and obviously of a higher
grade, led their little naked children by the hand
to see the show. They wore no veils, but they threw
their green or cherry-coloured garments half across
their faces. Other women, of the highest grade of all,
drove quietly through the crowd in picturesquely
painted little carriages on wooden wheels, drawn by
swift white bullocks with skins like satin. Sometimes
these bullock-carriages were tented over, in much the
same way as the Bussorah belles. But here, as
there, a well-rounded arm half covered with gold
bangles, or a pair of mischievous black eyes, would let
you see pretty plainly that there was something
worth looking at on the other side of the curtain.

I was in India, and so was Lydia, and how she would
have enjoyed this !

Our ponderous beasts had need just then of all their
sagacity. The main street was thronged with a leisurely
crowd, far too much interested in seeing what was to
be seen to get out of their way. There where no trottoirs
or side walks, and on either side of the narrow roadway
there were deep drains in which the little naked urchins
paddled fearlessly.

The Baroda houses and shops, mud or brick or
wood, or whatever they were, are all painted in bright
colours — glaring red, sea-green, or yellow-ochre — and
are for the most part decorated with rude outlines of
Hindu gods and mythological animals. Every now
and then our long winding procession had to halt, as
the crowd hung reverently round a sacred stone linga
in the street, or a vermilion - painted yoni in the
gnarled trunk of some old historical tree that had
been almost killed by the encroaching bricks and
mortar. There was nothing architecturally attractive
in the city until we came to a gateway under a clock
tower. Here all the chief streets seemed to meet
together. The tower looked like a Chinese joss-house,
and was painted a light-blue colour.

Baroda is the " Place of Fair Waters," but there is
nothing like a river there. On the other hand, its
woodland scenery is rich and beautiful. The whole

road from the town to the cantonments was hedged
in on both sides with spreading trees that might have
been reared in some primeval forest. They formed
a striking and stately avenue, hung just now with
flags and wreaths of flowers. The avenue was bordered,
right and left, with a long trellis of bamboos
and palm-trees, and was spanned at short intervals by
triumphal arches. The road was so crowded that our
elephants had to thread their way through the people
as cautiously as in the city. The whole of the countryside
was apparently emptying itself slowly into
Baroda.

Thornton, as he explained all this, must, from some
of my questions, have taken me for an utter fool.
But I was in a dream when I first met him. I was
dreaming still — I could not help it — of Lydia as I left
her ; and I was more in a dream than ever when our
elephant dropped suavely on to his knees in the midst
of a pretty little canvas city in the centre of a broad
green meadow, surrounded by beautiful seem-trees.

My tent, as I entered it, looked very snug and comfortable.
I was thoroughly exhausted, and Thornton
had little trouble in persuading me to lift the mosquito-curtains
and to throw myself on the bed just as I was.
He aroused me just before four. Then, after a bath
and a change, I went up and down with him, still ina
dreamy, hazy sort of way, so as to see what our

arrangements were to be for the next three or four
weeks. We went first to the Guest House, in which
there were dining-rooms and smoking-rooms and card-rooms,
with a big saloon up-stairs, used as a play-room
for the children by day, and as a ball-room by night.
The broad verandah in front of the Guest House was,
however, as we afterwards discovered, the most popular
part of the establishment. Here, in the sultry midday
hours, every one lounged or strolled, smoked,
flirted, or dozed away. In the pretty garden round
the Guest House the married people and the young
ladies in their charge were accommodated in thirty
or forty double-poled tents ; and, stretching across the
open meadow beyond these, there was a canvas street
of some fifty single-poled tents for the bachelors, which
the bachelors themselves had modestly christened the
Rue che la Vertu. Each of these tents was roomy and
well furnished ; each had a bath-room tent and a servants'
tent behind, and in front a tall lamp-post, with
a lamp bearing a number, so that, by night as well as
by day, every guest's number might be conspicuous.
If you knew your number you knew enough, for when
once the messiah had booked your number in the
office, your material cares were at an end. The number
in front of your tent was the number of your chair
in the dining-room, and the number also of the 
that was always waiting for your orders. You

sent your number to the office, and five minutes afterwards
a camel, or an elephant, or an Arab riding-horse
was ready to take you wherever you liked through the
city; or, if you wished for sport, a couple of gamekeepers
or shikaris came up to lead you to the likeliest
places in the broad woodlands that stretched away on
all sides for miles and miles.

Your servants, if you had any, were every morning
paid the extra allowance that Indian servants always
expect when away from home, and there were printed
notices up everywhere requesting you not to fee any
of the innumerable boys, or hands, or barbers, or
dJiohies, who had been specially imported to do your
bidding.

On a marble-topped table in the Guest House hall
lay a large morocco-bound complaint-book, in which
all the guests were courteously invited to ask for anything
that might not have been thought of.

But surely," said I to Thornton, when he showed
me the complaint-book, " everything has been thought
of. We seem to be living in an enchanted garden, just
as in the old Persian story. You never see your host,
but if you wish for a thing, you clap your hands and
have it."

Yes," he said thoughtfully, " native wealth under
skilled European direction can, no doubt, do a good
deal. Can you think of anything you can't get here ? "

VOL. IL L

For a moment I was weak enough to think of Lydia.
What a fool I was, after what had passed, to think,
even in fancy, that I wanted to see her !

No ? " said Thornton, after a pause. " Barring the
impossible, they supply you with every imaginable
thing except a cheque-book, which would be useless
here. But think of anything you wish for, anything
you have never tasted, or have only once tasted long
ago, put it down in the complaint-book, and it will
come on by the first train. Some of the youngsters
here have been trying to puzzle the complaint-book,
but so far the complaint-book has beaten them."

And who looks at the complaint-book ? " I asked.

The Gaekwar himself."

And who is the Gaekwar ? "

Our invisible host. Four or five years ago he lived
in a bamboo hovel with his parents, somewhere below
Lutheran, on this side of the Ghauts. He was a cowboy,
like the first Gaekwar before him. But the last
Gaekwar, IMulharao, had tried to poison the English
Eesident with diamond dust "

Diamond dust ! " I cried — " diamond dust for
poison ! They surely carry their extravagances to an
unheard-of length ! "

Well, at all events," said Thornton, " there was a
break in the succession. The English police had to
find a successor to Mulharao, after they had deported

him to Madras. The Government chose the youngest
boy the police unearthed, as being most amenable to
English influences. You will see his father and his
elder brothers at all the ceremonials. They are peasants,
and, however magnificently attired, will remain
peasants to the end of the chapter. But the Gaekwar
is the adopted monarch of a splendid country. He
has almost as big an income as our Queen, and promises
to be the most intelligent young pupil that English
tutelage has yet produced in India. He has a
grand future, when he is old enough to realise his own
significance."

Now I knew wdiat was before me. All that is gorgeous
or fantastic, costly or popular. Eastern or English,
had been pressed into the service of this unseen
Gaekw^ar's munificent hospitality. There were state-banquets
and durbar, balls and matches, pig-sticking
parties, falconry and cheetah-hunting, English races
that reminded one of Goodwood, and wild-beast fights
that reminded one of Eome. But except inside the
Guest House, and around it, the prevailing flavour of
everything was intensely oriental.

The days were warm, but the nights were strangely
cold for India ; and then it was that the ladies, here
as everywhere, showed their complete indifference to
their surroundings, and their superiority to the larger
sex. If there was nothing better to be done after dinner,

they strolled about the terraces and the garden
listening to the band, with their white necks and bare
arms gleaming in the lamplight, while the men walked
beside them muffled up to the throat in ulsters and
greatcoats. But there were few idle nights at the
Guest House, for, as Thornton had promised, we had
one incessant round of festivities and sports and entertainments
for eighteen hours a-day ; and in a mad
effort to forget myself I tried to make the most of
them.

CHAPTEK XXXIII.

It seemed a dream at the time. Had I ever known
Lydia at all ? Had she kissed me in the starlight in
the Gulf of Oman ? Had I kissed her in the moonlight,
just before we sighted Bombay ? Did I still
feel her kisses as I dreamt ? Thornton laughed at
me ; but the two or three weeks I spent at Baroda
still come back to me like a dream — a dream in which
first and foremost I remember the strange processions
that were for ever passing to and fro. Sometimes the
Gaekwar was there, a self-possessed, handsome lad,
as he sat unmoved in a golden howdah on a painted
elephant, splendidly caparisoned. His coat and turban
seemed one blazing, glittering mass of diamonds
and rubies, and, whenever they saw him from afar, the
royal elephants formed themselves into a double line
to salute him, with bowed heads and upraised trunks,
as he passed through their ranks to take his proper
place in the procession. There were sixty or seventy
of these royal beasts, all painted in patterns of grey

and red and green and yellow, all with big circles of
vermilion or bright yellow round their small eyes,
and all tricked out in gold and silver housings. Before
the Gaekwar rode troops of soars in green and
red, or red and white, and artillerymen in blue and
white, guarding the almost sacred guns of gold and
silver, which are only shown to the populace on very
grand occasions. These guns, two of gold and two of
silver, were mounted on long silver carriages, and were
drawn by great oxen with gilded horns, and housings
of cloth - of - gold thickly embroidered with pearls.
Then came the elephants bearing the Sirdars ; the
official personages of importance on horseback, with
enormous red umbrellas held carefully over their bejewelled
turbans ; ten or twelve standards of rich gold
cloth studded with gems ; regiment after regiment of
infantry headed by their bands ; and one elephant,
almost as big as the Gaekwar's elephant, from whose
broad back a gigantic Mahratta proudly displayed
Queen Victoria's imperial banner. Troops of wild
Arab spearmen, in olive-coloured coats, danced along,
shrieking as they danced, under their nodding plumes
and their black banners, in front of a number of
magnificent riderless stallions that pranced and pawed
the ground fiercely to the beating of a hundred tomtoms
and the awful music of the regimental brass
bands and fife bands.

I

This sort of thing used to go on ahiiost daily, though
the Gaekwar was rarely present; and the long processions,
as they uncoiled themselves slowly amidst
the richly wooded scenery, took from half an hour to
three-quarters of an hour in passing the Guest House.

Then the city itself was full of curious sights —
quaint temples, secluded gardens, and rare old houses
faced and finished with the most exquisitely carved
old teakwood. We had to visit numberless tawdry
palaces, furnished with silver chairs and sofas, and
hung all over, in the rooms and even in the very
verandahs, with the costliest and most beautiful chandeliers
of cut-glass that Europe can produce, but decorated
with cheap German prints, hideous and perhaps
improper, and filled with trumpery music-boxes and
automatic toys.

In one of the palaces the Gael war's jewels were on
view, and they were quite as well worth looking at
as any of his gorgeous processions. Thornton was a
judge of gems, and, as he spoke the language like a
native, a little band of visitors gathered round him as
soon as he began to cross-examine the head cartoon.
The old man took his treasures out carefully, one by
one, from the old pickle-pots and meat-tins in which
they lay wrapped up in cotton - wool. The ladies
pressed to the front when the flashing beauties of this
inimitable collection were displayed, and Thornton's

sudden eloquence gave me an opportunity of making
the acquaintance of an American girl, whose bright
and vivacious figure, and upright, downright outspokenness
on the other side of the Guest House
table, had interested us both a good deal. I begged
her to take my place beside Thornton, and so began a
pleasant but short-lived friendship.

Thank you, sir," she said ; " women like this sort
of thing."

Then the harpoon, with Thornton as interpreter,
began to pass his jewels round, till the whole room
glittered again and again with brilliant points of light.
There were ruby nose-rings and kakans or wrestlers of
pearls, anklets or pallas of pearls and diamonds, and
xavadvelas or armlets of sapphires, diamonds, and
emeralds, all massively set in virgin gold. Then the
other tins and pickle-jars were turned upside-down,
and we saw the real prizes of the collection. There
was one carcanet of five hundred table diamonds,
clasped with great emeralds, and set so as to show off
the " Star of the Deccan," the largest diamond left in
India. There were reckless of pearls, tapering away
from pearls as large as a grape to pearls no bigger
than peas, but all equally perfect in colour. There
were great diamond stars and aigrettes for the turban,
bunches of rubies and emeralds, and cat's-eyes and
moonstones, and all other imaginable stones, waiting

to be set ; rings of all sorts ; and, as a bonne houcJie, an
engraved sapphire of inestimable value. Jewels to
the value of something like a million sterling lay
before us, and, though ignominiously cased, they were
guarded, day and night, by a company of sepoy with
loaded rifles and fixed bayonets ; and they formed a
very small part of the enormous wealth of a lad whoa
few years before had been driving his father's cattle
about the dusty Indian plains.

After this display the ladies did not care much for
the jewelled arms, or the embroidered garments, or the
shawls, any one of which could have been pulled
through a wedding-ring. I drove back to the Guest
House with the American lady, and I listened so
attentively to the reverential things she said about the
Gaekwar's gems, that I was permitted to escort her to
the fancy-dress ball in the evening. It was a pretty
scene, but most of the Englishmen present soon
thought they had been there long enough. The walls
were lined with Sirdars and other native gentlemen of
high estate, wondering how it was that we permitted
our ladies to unveil their arms and necks in public, and
to gyrate about in a manner that not even any of
their hired nautch-girls would dare to attempt. I
could not persuade my fair companion to come home
at midnight, but she promised to go with me to the
people's fete next day. Then I fell asleep dreaming of

swarthy faces and cruel lascivious looks, of pale slave-girls
fettered beyond endurance in the Gaekwar's costly
jewels, of secret chambers glistening like the old Golconda
mines, and beyond them all, somewhere in the
far distance, I saw in my dreams Lydia's sad grey eyes.
The feU in the People's Park went on from sunrise
to midnight, and when we ventured to visit it in the
afternoon, there must have been fifty thousand or sixty
thousand people present. The performers had been
bribed and tempted to Baroda from all parts of India,
and we saw whatever India has to show in the way
of legerdemain, and sleight-offhand, and magic. In
booths or enclosures all about the park there where
wrestlers, actors, swordsmen, contortionists, nautch-girls,
tumbling - girls, snake - charmers, bear - leaders,
giants and dwarfs, and collections of such repulsive
human monstrosities as are only manufactured now
in the remoter and less civilised native States. You
looked at one man ; he put a piece of cold charcoal
into his mouth, and blew out a fiery blast from his
lips and through his nostrils. You looked at another,
and he emptied the contents of a huge-wdXeY-cliattie
into his ear. You looked at a third, and with a
tremendous effort he pulled up from his throat miles
and miles of cotton-thread bristling for a league or
two with huge darning-needles, a couple of inches
long each, coming up, thread and needles alike,

quicker than you could follow, until, with a grunt
of satisfaction and relief, the conjurer sat in front of a
pyramid of cotton sure mounted with a chevaux de frise
of darning-needles. Then we went into some of the
booths. In one a boy's head — and a very pretty boy's
head too, but with an ugly crimson rim round the
neck — stood like a flower-pot upon a clumsy wooden
table. As honoured guests we were allowed to go
close up to the head — so close that but for the rope in
front we could have touched it. It was a real living
head, with startled, blinking eyes, but it was streaming
with perspiration as it answered all Thornton's questions
off-hand. The illusion was complete. There
was the head, but where was the body ? Thornton
drew a curtain aside as we went out of the booth, and
uncovered half-a-dozen little urchins lying on the
ground, all utterly exhausted. They could, perhaps,
have explained the mystery, but we could only talk
about it. The mango trick is so common as to be
scarcely worth recording. A conjurer — and in India
conjurers are mystics and mesmerism, and heaven
knows what besides, and only the initiated are permitted
to practise — buries a mango-seed in the ground.
He covers it with a cloth, and when he has soused it
well with water, he shows you a sharp green sprout.
Then he takes a larger cloth, and after that has been
well watered, you see a bush full of leaves. The process

goes on until you have a mango-tree full of luscious
fruit. The American lady was invited to pull a
mango off, and pronounced it to be the best she had
ever tasted. Then, of course, Thornton showed us the
basket trick. A little boy came forward, and as I
began to be really interested, I tied his hands and
feet together myself with a stout rope. The conjurer
then placed him in a basket. We turned the basket
over, bottom upwards. The crowd that encircled us
on all sides gathered nearer. The conjurer gave me a
long sharp sword ; and rather reluctantly, and feeling
like a murderer all the time, I passed it through the
interstices of the wicker-work, up and down and right
and left, leaving not an inch unvisited. Then, after a
solemn incantation, my mysterious ally suddenly
clapped his hands, and we saw the boy, with the
ropes loose in his hands, running towards us from a
clump of trees ninety or a hundred yards off. I
kicked the basket over ; it was empty, of course, but
with no more deception about it than there is in a
washerwoman's basket at home.

That's not bad," said Thornton, " but I expected
to see something better. You see these tricks everywhere.
But in Baroda, on an occasion like this, I half
expected to see the rope trick."

What is that ? " asked the American girl eagerly.
Don't tell me too much. I shall never be believed

again if I repeat half of what I have seen already.
But what is the rope trick ? "

I can't do it," said Thornton, " but it seems to be
very, very simple. You take a coil of rope in your
hands and throw it up. Then your confederate
catches hold of the rope and runs up it, and goes on
and on towards the sky until he disappears, as the
crowd think, for good. 'Not a bit of it. They hear
a thud, and see a head, an arm, a leg. They turn
aside in horror, and when they look round again,
your confederate is bowing blandly at them. That is
a trick worth knowing. You don't believe me ? Well,
let us go and have another look at the gentleman
spitted on the sword-blade."

Close to a kiosk, where all the roads met, we had
seen, as we came into the public park, the man
spitted on the sword-blade. He lay there horizontally,
with the long two-handed sword, as far as we
could see, right through his back and coming out a
long way in front, while his family of young but most
attentive children fed him from time to time with
plantains and cocoa-nut milk. He had a serene smile
on his face all through the afternoon, and in our
journeyings we came across him half-a-dozen times
at least, always resigned, and very pleased apparently
at the interest Thornton took in his health.

The fireworks later on were magnificent, and could

not have been rivalled by Brock or any modern maker
at home. They had been manufactured by the descendants
of an old French adventurer, who formed
a little caste of their own, and kept their ancestor's
secrets to themselves. When the Gaekwar and his more
illustrious guests came up, the deep ravine between
the two sides of the park was suddenly illuminated,
and on a thick rope, with a balancing pole brightly
lit at either end, a native acrobat walked across, two
or three hundred feet above the little stream at the
bottom. Then he started from the farther side with
a native woman in his arms. She bore the balancing
pole for him now. The crowd shrieked with excitement,
and all the lights in the park were turned full
upon them. But the young American lady thought
she had seen enough for one evening, and requested us
to take her home at once ; and when we reached the
Guest House, we found that the people who left
before us had improvised the pleasantness dance ever
held there.

And so, as through a mist, the ever-changing panorama
rolled on. But the most striking pictures
perhaps of all were seen at what everybody called
the " Sports in the Arena." Here wild beasts with
wild beasts, and wild beasts with men, engaged in
mortal combat in the middle of the Agra, a huge oval
enclosure, some two hundred yards long and sixty

broad, surrounded by a massive wall twenty feet high,
with narrow apertures in it here and there, just big-enough
to admit a hard-pressed man flying from an
infuriated beast. On the top of the wall, well out of
reach, on platforms behind it, on the rising ground
behind the platforms, and upon the branches of the
encircling trees, sat the whole population of Baroda,
man, woman, and child. The scene was a curious
blending of strong colours, what with the deep-blue
sky, the rich green trees and uplands, the red turbans
of the men, the robes, white or sage-green or purple, of
the women, as they sat, intent and eager, with swarthy
faces and flashing eyes.

The Gaekwar and his guests were accommodated in
the gaily decorated grand stand, three storeys high,
the lowest storey, like the top of the wall, being about
twenty feet from the ground. The English ladies in
their gala dresses, the English officers in their bright
uniforms, and the chiefs and Sirdars in their glittering
jewels and ancestral finery, must have formed a brilliant
spectacle to the people on the walls. It was four
o'clock when we took our seats, and the arena was still
steeped in the fierce white glare of Indians sunshine.

First came the Gaekwar's wrestlers, and acrobats,
and swordsmen, stripped to the waist-cloth, their huge
bodies and brawny limbs and shaven heads glistening
with cocoa-nut oil. They salaried reverentially to

their young master — Morituri te sahotant ! The whole
thing reminded us of Eome — of Eome in Asia Minor,
in its magnificent decadence. Then in a long procession
the painted elephants passed through, saluting
the Gaekwar and his guests with upraised trunks and
shrill strident cries ; then the fighting elephants and
rhinoceroses, and fighting buffaloes and blue-bulls, and
huge-horned rams and tigers heavily manacled, went
slowly by. Next came a hundred men or more with
spears and flags, and chains and ropes, and bundles of
squibs and fireworks in their hands, whose duty it
was to keep the ground; and finally, the Gaekwar's
amazons and nautch-girls and conjurers. These last
began the entertainment with a salute of twenty-one
tiny brass cannon, fired by skilfully trained turtle-doves
and green parrots.

But it is simply impossible to describe all we saw.
In one corner a dozen couples of the Gaekwar's wrestlers
struggled, with strained backs and knotted limbs,
like so many bronze Laocoon. In another, two huge
rhinoceroses were let loose. For a minute or two they
rubbed their battered horns amicably together. Then
they retired, to meet again with an awful clash that
shook the whole arena. The crowd shouted ; the rival
keepers urged their great beasts on with spears and
shrieks and rockets, and refreshed them, from time to
time, by dashing bucketfuls of water over their dusty

parchment-coloured hides. When we were satisfied,
or supposed to be satisfied, the rhinoceroses were captured
with spike-lined clamps or tampering-irons, attached
to heavy chains that were deftly buckled round
their legs, and they were led off snorting and struggling
like frightened pigs. The elephants, when they
were brought up to the fray, looked keenly at one
another with their ferocious little eyes, and then, with
their great ears flapping away like punkahs, they lashed
each other's foreheads with their trunks. Suddenly
the smaller beast twined his trunk adroitly round his
adversary's, and the battle became a wrestling-match.
Slowly the larger elephant was pushed backwards towards
the wall, and crushed so severely against it that
the people on the top began to climb down in alarm.
Then with shrill trumpeting he broke loose and fled,
the attendants flying before him into their little
refuges and up the narrow stairways. One unlucky
man stumbled, and had his back ripped open by the
victorious animal ; and now, when the excitement was
at its highest, we had the pet performance of all — a
contest between a mounted spearman and an elephant
maddened with bhang. The man rode wonderfully.
You forgot the danger of the combat in its beauty.
With a touch of his sharp stirrup the rider turned his
horse at full gallop, and with a shout of exultation
plunged his long lance into the flanks of the huge

VOL. II. M

beast careering past him. Three times he pricked the
elephant between the eyes with this spear ; three times
the elephant touched him, but only just touched him,
with his trunk. The crowd shouted " Wabash I sJia-
hash ! " and when at last the horseman fairly drove the
elephant out of the arena, he was summoned by the
Gaekwar to receive a formal reward. After this
marvellous feat of equestrian daring, the performance
fell rather flat. The blue-bulls, with lashing tails and
heaving flanks and eyes aflame, entwined their horns
until the horn of one poor beast was actually uprooted,
and he was led off quivering, bleeding, and ashamed.
Ears charged at one another from opposite sides of the
arena, until we began to understand the meaning of
the medieval "battering-ram." But by this time the
ladies had had enough or too much of the show, and
begged us to take them out. There was a smell of
blood in the air. The people were becoming excited,
and the attendants, whether on foot or horseback, were
far too venturesome.

"Yes," said Thornton, as we drove away, "it is
something like the great Woman shows. But we
missed the Woman women, with their lascivious eyes
and cruel pale faces, and their upturned thumbs,
crying 'Hale I habet ! hoc hctbet ! ' The sports, too, are
nothing now to what they were a few years back.
Undergo used to wrestle with this moans himself,

and woe to the man who threw him ! He used, too, to
tie notes for ten thousand rupees on to the tusks of his
fighting-elephants, and laugh at his men as they where
ripped up in their attempts to gain them."

But if we seemed to be in Eome one afternoon, the
next morning found us hawking — just as if the middle
ages had never disappeared.

The country through which we went hawking was
more richly wooded than any we had seen yet. The
peasants, for many miles around, had been pressed into
service as beaters, and when we reached their trysting-spot
the morning air was still cool and crisp. Some of
the ladies of the Gaekwar's harem were present, to
follow the sports as well as they could through the low
spreading branches of the merry greenwood trees, on
their unwieldy elephants, gay and gorgeous as at the
sports in the arena ; but the gold and crimson howdahs
in which the ladies sat were now all carefully veiled.
A few of the English ladies from the Guest House
accompanied the Gaekwar's women, but for the most
part they rode with the men. The falconers — with
their hawks on their gloved wrists, long-winged and
black-eyed hawks, or short-winged and with white
irises, but all now carefully hooded — and the wild
Mahratta horsemen, spear in hand, looked very picturesque
in their gay costumes, as they rode deftly in
and out of the men on foot, trying to organise the motley

crowd of beaters properly. But after the horsemen
and horsewomen had been duly scattered and
dispersed, the Gaekwar only waited a few minutes
till the sun was fairly visible. Then, at a signal
from a grey-bearded falconer, he gave the word to
advance, and his orders were forwarded by shrill
whistles over three or four square miles of country.
A hawk's flight is, it seems, seldom more than two
miles, but it takes a daring horseman to follow him
for even that short distance.

The whole place, wood and water and grass-land,
literally teemed with game. The well-trained hawks
in their unerring and deadly flight suddenly swooped
down upon the florins, and herons, and storks, and
partridges, and quails as they flew about here and
there, and had it not been for the horsemen, many of
the hawks, after the sharp stroke from their talons had
once failed, would themselves have fallen a prey to the
florins and herons and larger birds they attacked.
Other horsemen, not quite so swift, speared the timid
hares and pretty little dappled deer that were driven
towards them. Altogether it struck me as a cruel
amusement; but then a lathe, when two or three
thousand beaters are engaged, must always be unfair
for the odds are terribly one-sided. Most of us
were glad, I fancy, when the hawking was over,
and when we sat down to a sumptuous leisurely breakfast

under the cool shade of a far-spreading hundred-trinket
banian-tree, big enough to shelter our horses,
our elephants, our followers, and ourselves.

There is probably nothing in the world so grateful
as rest after labour; and we all spent a long lazy
forenoon under the great tree's pleasant shade, talking
over the accidents and adventures and misadventures
of our morning ride. Most of the ladies,
however fond of sport they might be, condemned
hawking as unfair and cruel. Still it had nothing
of the bloodthirsty cruelty in which we all shared
later on, when — tired of the perpetual morning races,
at which you could neither make money in the lotteries
nor lose it in the ^;«?'^ ynutuel — we all went out with
the cheetahs.

Cheetah-hunting, as we saw it, is, I fancy, peculiar to
Baroda. In front half-a-dozen cheetahs, all hissing or
purring like overgrown tabbies, were driven in light
wooden carts, each with three or four attendants.
Then followed the guests in two diverging lines of
little gold-coloured and silver-coloured two-wheeled
hackeries, drawn by swift white oxen. There were
no seats in the hackeries, but the guests where requested
to accommodate themselves in couples as
best they could, packed and crossed-legged, on the
square yard of carpet-cushion with which the bottom
of each of these atrocious little carriages was furnished.

The hackeries had, of course, no springs. But
off we started, as fast as our nimble bullocks could tear,
over hill and dale, upland and lowland, rut or furrow,
nulla or cactus-hedge. My fellow-passenger on our
little yard-square bit of gaudy cushion happened to bethe
very vivacious young American lady of whom I
had lately seen a good deal. She could not stand the
jolting of our springless vehicle, and I did not wonder
at her for this ; but she waited very pluckily until I
should be able to show her something of the sport.
After rattling on, up hill and down, for two or three
miles, we came to within about a hundred and fifty
yards of a herd of black-buck browsing placidly.
The brilliant gold and silver decorations on our little
bullock - carts seemed to make them rather uneasy.
Simultaneously they all turned their heads in our
direction. But they were too late. Three of the
cheetahs had been stealthily unloaded and slipped.
In half-a-dozen enormous bounds through the thick
waves of grass and maize and dlicd, they reached their
victims, each of them pulling a fine buck down by the
throat. Cheetahs, by the way, never pull a doe down
if a buck is within striking distance ; and if they fail
to strike in the first three or four hundred yards, they
always return sullenly to their keepers. Here, however,
their keepers had to go to them and tear them off
their quarry, growling and snarling as they permitted

themselves to be blindfolded; and only to be pacified
at last with a great silver bowl of black-buck blood,
filled by an adroit cut with a knife across the dying
animal's throat.

Then the double line of garishly painted little carriages
went on. But my fair companion was too stiff'
and too shaken to follow. She caught my arm before
we had gone another mile, and implored me to stop.
I lifted her out of the cart, and laid her gently on a
grassy mound under a clump of trees; and then I
emptied as much water over her as my helmet, filled
at a neighbouring tank half-a-dozen times over, could
well hold, before it collapsed ; but it was only after
the better part of an hour that she felt able to retrace
her steps on foot. She was, though, wonderfully
good. She never once threw the blame on me ;
and by way of trying to keep up her spirits as we
trudged along, arm in arm and thoroughly tired out,
behind our mockery of a finely painted bullock-cart,
I naturally tried to be as lively and gay and gallant
as possible. But my sun-helmet was sodden with
water, the sun was blazing hot, and when I had
handed the American girl over to the ladies in the
verandah of one of the Gaekwar's sporting-boxes in
which breakfast had been arranged for us, I collapsed.

Thornton was smoking lazily in a long chair beside
me in my tent as I awoke.

Hicks," he said, " you may be thankful it was no
worse. You have been shivering here for a week, and
raving like a lunatic the whole time ! "

Well," I answered, " I am all right now ; feel my
pulse: and do please fill up the hiatus in my mind.
Where's that American girl ? "

Thornton felt my pulse, and put a doctor's thermometer
under my right arm; then he almost slapped
me. " You are all right, old fellow," he cried.
But you meant suicide, if any man ever meant it.
You did too much, and slept too little. We all
thought you were mad. Perhaps you are ; and now
you ask after your trim little American beauty !
What does she care for you, or you for her ? "

I don't know," I said. " But where is she ? "

Where she should be," he answered gravely, " with
some one else. She brought you back on an elephant,
and handed you over to me very nicely ; I must say
that for her. Then she hurried off to lawn-tennis ;
and I have seen nothing of her since, and have heard
nothing more of her either. Your ravings — and I
could not help hearing them as I watched you, old
chap — were all about another woman, a Mrs Fons


I turned round uneasily in my bed. I was stronger
than I thought. I was strong enough to hold my own

Don't talk to me of Mrs Fonblanque ! " I cried.

Why not ? " asked Thornton, with his hand again
on my pulse. " Not talk to you about her, when you
have talked of nothing but her grey eyes for the last
week ? You ought to have had brain-fever instead of
a mild touch of sunstroke ; and even then you would
not have got your deserts. Judging from your ravings,
Mrs Fonblanque is a woman among women; and if
you had been as frank in Bombay as you have been
lately, I don't think I should have taken the trouble
to bring you up to Baroda. You asked her for her
friendship. She gave you that, and told you she could
not possibly give you anything else. You were bound
in honour by the rules of the game, and, in spite of the
rules, you twice somehow or other kissed her. What
more could you want, man ? The lady has all my
sympathy."

Stop, Thornton," I cried ; " she has all mine too !
I should never have babbled out my secret thoughts
like this if I had not lost my senses ; but when a
man is on his sickbed, you really should not speak to
him like a conscience."

It will do you no harm," said Thornton, curtly ;
and it is a relief to hear that you have a conscience,
old man. Judging from your ravings — and ever since
I have known you, you always raved more or less —
the lady has been straight and frank all through ; and

what the dickens had you to do with her bygone
secrets, if she have any ? Friendship is one thing and
impertinence another."

I winced. Thornton again put the thermometer
under my arm, and after some careful calculations on
a paper covered with old figures, suddenly dragged me
out of bed and stuck me on a long chair.

Dear old Tom ! He was never naturally energetic,
and never used strong language when it was not absolutely
necessary. Then he left me on my long chair,
after having carefully covered me up with wraps.

I knew, from the mere fact of having been dragged
out of bed in this unceremonious way, that I was
physically all right again, and I suspected, with a
feeling of joyous and almost mad relief, that I had
treated Lydia very badly. Why should Thornton
deceive me ? Or, for that matter, why should Lydia
deceive me either ? I had left her as she was imploring
me to stay ; yet surely she had always been much
more to me than ever I could hope to be to her. I
laughed cheerily at Thornton when he returned, bringing
me a cup of beef-tea with a glass of brandy in it.
But as soon as he disappeared, I got up from my
chair, put my dress clothes on without much difficulty,
and called for a carriage, so as to follow him to the
State nautch - party, which, as an official, he felt
bound to attend. As luck would have it, my own

carriage had been allotted to some one else, and the
messiah, with a pleasant smile on his face, paired me
off with the American girl who had tried so hard not
to faint when we went out with the cheetahs.

We were late. All the silver sofas were occupied,
and my fair companion, though several men rose to
make room for her, said that she would rather stand
so as to be near the nautch-girls.

It was difficult at first to appreciate the music of
the men who accompanied the nautch-girls. They
divided their semi - tones in some extraordinary
manner into demi-semi-tones, of which European
notation knows nothing ; but the low wailing sound
resulting from this odd division, forms, it seems, the
special charm of oriental music.

Thornton saw me enter, and hurried up at once.

Your friend is still ill," he said to my companion
very stiffly. " You really should not have brought
him out to-nidit."

I beg your pardon, sir. I am not in the habit of
being lectured ; and I did not bring him out," she
answered. " The messiah put Mr Hicks into my
carriage, and I could not well insist on his removal."

He can scarcely stand," said Thornton.

You might get him a chair, then," she replied.
Or stop ; take my arm, Mr Hicks. We will look on
for a minute or two, and then drive home together."

This somewhat mollified Thornton, and in a short
time he began to explain the entertainment to us.
Their music is simple enough," he said, " once you
have the key to it."

Oh, I have the key," retorted the American lady.
It is not the music you admire, but the prolonged
pauses in the music, and the ecstatic intervals of
repose."

Thornton laughed. "You are very nearly right.
That is one great charm of Hindu music, no doubt.
But, according to the high authority of Damodara, the
Hindu musical scale has seven natural tones — the
peacock's screech, the parrot's cry, the sheep's bleat,
the crane's call, the soil-bird's note, the horse's neigh,
and the elephant's trumpeting."

I wonder he did not mention the pussy-cat's mew,"
said the American lady. " But look at those girls in
their new dance. How rhythmical and graceful they
are, and what very beautiful women ! "

She was right. Wlien you looked at the nautcli-
girls you soon forgot the music. It was dreamy, and
sensuous, and languishing, and amorous, and sometimes
almost passionate, but, however shrill and discordant
to European ears, it was, as they danced, the
most fitting accompaniment to their movements.

The Tanjore nautch-girls before us — and Tanjore is
the real home of the Indian nautch — were both beautifully

formed women, trained through their childish
and girlish days to make the most of their rare and
supple beauty. They were dressed in light muslins
and golden tissues. They had heavy diamond pendants
in their ears, and in their hair yellow flowers
intermingled with diamond sprays. Vce victim ! Like
their sisters in Europe, they, too, had spoils to show ;
and so they wore chains of gold, and ropes of pearls,
and armlets and bracelets and anklets of gold and
precious stones, that clinked like castanets as they
danced. They had rings on their fingers and rings on
their toes, and the most coquettish little rings stuck
jauntily on to one side of their pretty little aquiline
noses.

The way in which the Tanjore nautch-girls danced
had as little in common with the European ballet as
their flowing drapery. It consisted chiefly of slow
movements backwards and forwards, of soft and
graceful postures, and of the rhythmical manner in
which they dropped and raised their arms, so as to
show off the contour of their beautiful figures as
reluctantly but as voluptuously as possible. The chief
art of the nautch lies in this graceful movement of the
arms and the upper part of the body. At first they
sang a love-song as they danced. Then, at a signal
from the Gaekwar, the musicians, squatting on the
ground behind them, changed the tune, and in movements

slower and more subdued than ever, the girls
began the famous serpent-dance. They were beautiful
women still, but, as they danced, they were rather
serpents than women. The sinuous undulations of
their mobile bodies as they swayed gently from side
to side were snake-like. Their arms and hands and
fingers had serpentine twining, and their feet and
ankles, as they moved one toward the other, seemed
to glide and creep and trail along the ground so
quietly that the tinkling gunther on their ankles were
scarcely stirred.

Their eyes, as they danced, flashed and glowed with
passion, and were then veiled suddenly in dulled
satiety. It was a love-dance, of course, as all our
dances are ; but it was a story, too, of the tempter
and the tempted. The nautch-girls seemed to shiver
as they neared each other ; then again they retreated
slowly. The natives pressed forward to cheer them.
The European gentlemen retired in little knots into
the background ; and so the dance went on. Nothing,
as you describe it, could have been more decorous.
But suddenly all the English ladies, with one swift
look round, each to each, left the hall simultaneously ;
and I found that, when the American lady had
dropped my arm, somebody else's hand had slipped
gently under it. I turned round, and I saw, just as in
my feverish dreams on my sickbed every day and

night for a week back, Lydia's soft grey eyes. I \Yas so
tired that I could scarcely stand as I had watched the
nautch-girls dancing. But now a most curious feeling
of restfulness fell over me, and though I was weary
as I never had been before, I looked again at Lydia,
and as she led me out of the hall, the very air was
purer : her gentle touch on my arm seemed to thrill
me through and through with innocent and childish
thoughts ; and dien I looked into her eyes, and knew
that it was Lydia who was really leading me away
from these horrible dancing women, I thought that I
was in heaven — or at home.

Poor boy ! " she said, patting my arm with soft
little pats as we went out. " What have they done to
you since we parted ? You look like a scarecrow, and
that red-haired woman who propped you up with her
arm looked like a scarecrow too. I had been watching
you both for half an hour, and I only took your
arm when she dropped it, little minx, because the old
governor pretended to blush at the antics of the
nautch-girls, poor things ! Come away."

This was, of course, very unjust. But the joyous,
eager light in Lydia's grey eyes gave me fresh life ;
and the touch of her hand on mine compelled me to
go with her, were it to the end of the world. It was
tender and solicitous and womanly, and it was just
what I needed

CHAPTER XXXIV.

We will go at once," said Lyclia.

Go where ? " I vaguely asked, as I went down the
broad flight of illuminated steps.

Back to Bombay, Hector," she answered. " Xot to
stay there, of course. I have a much nicer plan than
that. Don't you think we were friendlier on the
water than on shore ? "

Yes, I am sure we were."

So I thought," said Lydia ; " and so, after we ran
away from each other in that absurd fashion, I went
straight back to Bombay, and bought a great big boat
that was going for next to nothing, a steamer the Government
wanted to sell. She makes a lovely yacht,
and is, her engineer tells me, so delightfully slow that
I have had her rechristened the Tortoise."

"The name is promising. I ought to have time
enough now to paint your portrait."

Oh ! you are coming, then ? " she answered merrily.
" How quick you are to see that I have forgiven
you already ! What an eternal good-bye that was of

ours in Bombay ! But you must not suppose for a
moment that I came here to look for you. By the
oddest chance I stopped at Baroda to see the nautch ;
and then I saw you, and you seemed so wretchedly
ill that I forgot everything except that we had for a
few days been the best friends in all the world. So tell
them to pack up your things, and let us be off at once.
Priscilla and my agents between them will have furnished
the Tortoise by this time, and the sooner weare
on board the better."

I was still surely in a dream, and to test its reality
I protested rather faintly that I could not decently runaway
from Tom Thornton, who had nursed me through
my fever like a brother.

Oh," cried Lydia lightly, " we will take Mr Thornton
with us. He has a nice kind face, I shall ask
him to come too."

To my astonishment Thornton consented ; and yet
he was the most stubborn man I knew. There was
evidently nothing that Lydia could not do when it
pleased her to be in earnest.

In half an hour or so we were driving through the
avenue of great seem-trees to the Baroda railway station,
with barely time enough to catch the Bombay
train. The trees, in the dim evening light, threw grotesque
and ghostly shadows across the road and far
out into the meadow-land on either side. Everything,

VOL. n. N

after the bustle of the day, was strangely silent, with
Baroda like a dream behind us, and in front the illimitable
dreams of the future. Suddenly we heard a
verse or two of a rollicking hunting-song : —

His rage at first, his glorious burst
Dark-dashing through the flood,
His bristly might, his meteor flight,
And his death of foam and blood ! "

Then, as we listened, everything was again intensely
still ; and then a drag laden with triumphant sportsmen
who had been out pig-sticking all day long, passed
us at full gallop. Some of the men recognised Thornton
and me, and by way of a farewell salutation
they burst into that soul-stirring old song, " The next
Grey Boar we see," the Anglo-Indian's national melody ;
and even the girls and matrons, who had driven out to
bring them back, lent their sweet melodious voices to
the chorus : —

"The boar, the mighty boar's my theme,
Whate'er the wise may say,
My morning thought, my midnight dream,

My hope throughout the day.
Youth's daring spirit, manhood's fire,

Firm hand and eagle eye,
Do they require, who dare aspire
To see the wild boar die.

Then pledge the boar, the mighty boar,

Fill high the cup with me ;
Here's luck to all that fear no fall,
And the next grey boar we see !

"We envy not the rich their wealth,

Xor kings their crowned career ;

The saddle is our crown of health,

Our sceptre is the spear.
We rival, too, the warrior's pride,
Deep-stained with purple gore,
For our field of fame's the jungle-side,
And our foe the jungle boar.

Then pledge the boar, the mighty boar.

Fill high the cup with me ;
Here's luck to all that fear no fall.
And the next grey boar we see !

"When age hath weakened manhood's powers,

And every nerve unbraced.
These scenes of joy will still be ours,

On memory's tablet traced ;
For with the friends whom death hath spared,

When youth's wild course is run.
We'll tell of the chases we have shared,
And the tusks that we have won.

Then pledge the boar, the mighty boar.

Fill high the cup with me ;
Here's luck to all that fear no fall,
And the next grey boar we see ! "

That song, as it died away slowly in the distance, was
the last thing Lydia or I ever heard of Baroda.

The Tortoise, when we got on board, looked wonderfully
familiar and homelike. I had, of course, never
seen her before. But underneath the ample snow-white
awning, the broad quarter-deck was fitted up as a
drawing-room with tables and chairs and knick-knacks,

and strewn with the soft rich rugs and carpets Lydia
had picked up on her travels. The walls of the
pretty saloon were decorated with the quaint old
weapons, the rare hangings, and beautiful china that
her mysterious assistant had purchased at our different
stopping-places, Priscilla, too, was there to meet us,
with little Sambo in a fine new dress, again from ear
to ear as he recognised his mistress.

Lydia led me round her ship. The Tortoise
might be slow, but she was roomy and very comfortable.
Suddenly in a retired corner we came upon the
Sheik, looking gloomier aid sulkier than ever, and
devoted 9,3 usual to his hookah. He saluted me rather
grimly as we passed on.

Why on earth did you bring him ? " I cried. " He
is a regular mar-joy ! "Why did you bring him ? "

Oh ! as a chaperon," she answered, smiling. " I
couldn't possibly know that Mr Thornton was coming
when I asked the Sheik to come, and we must have
some ojie with us ; and then I could not well leave the
poor old man stranded in Bombay, after I had dragged
him so far out of his road. But we will get rid of him
later on,"

And is Thornton really coming too ? " I asked.

"Yes."

And what are you going to do with us all ? And
where are you going to ? "

"I scarcely know," said Lydia. "You remember
my ideal man, who was ready at a moment's notice to
go anywhere and do anything ? Well, I mean to belike
my ideal man for a change."

And what are you going to do first ? "

We are going to Goa," she replied, " and so far Mr
Thornton has promised to accompany us. They are
celebrating the Exposition of St Francis Xavier's body
there just now. The Pope only allows it to be exposed
every fifty years or so. But what is the matter, Hector
? I thought you would be immensely pleased with
everything ; don't look so cross."

And though the Sheik was a disagreeable surprise,
it was difficult to look cross when the Tortoise got
properly under way. Thornton and the Sheik had
struck up a sudden friendship, and left Lydia and me
to ourselves, to lean over the bulwarks and watch the
receding city.

"Bombay is a beautiful city," she said. "I wish
you had seen something of the overhanging houses in
the bazaars, with their great carved balconies and
gaily painted fronts, six or seven storeys high, and
something of its strange crowds, the strangest molest
crowds seen anywhere in Asia. And I ought to have
driven you up to Malabar Hill, and shown you the picturesque
sweep of Back Bay down below with its tine
English buildings, and its tall cotton-mill chimneys

set in groves of palm-trees, with the sunny islands and
sombre hills beyond them. Talk of the curve of
beauty ! The sweep of that bay is the loveliest curve
I know ; and it is always beautiful, in the sunlight, in
the gloaming, and even in the dark, when you see
nothing but the lamplight marking its margin. But
we were neither of us happy in Bombay, Hector,
and we are best away. I daresay we shall sail back
by-and-by, and then you shall paint it and describe it
as it should be painted and described. 'No one has
ever done either, and yet sometimes I think that Bombay
must be the loveliest city in the world."

Another Naples," I said, smiling. " Veda Napoli
e 'poi mori."

But Lydia was right. We were best away. After
Mr Wye's sudden reappearance, the town, little as
I knew of it, was full of painful memories, and her
mystery, whatever it was, seemed, even on our brief
passage through the crowded streets, to challenge
inquiry. Some of the ladies we met looked at her
with interest ; when we reached the Apollo Bunder
two men distinctly bowed to her, but she never
noticed their salutations.

However, I was still in a dream. Bombay, like
Baroda, belonged to a nightmare of the past, and once
on board the Tortoise, we settled down as quietly as
if we had never left our old British-india steamer.

When we had talked over Sister Patricia's parting
words and tearful eyes, there was so much to speak
of — and so much, after our quarrel, to be left unsaid —
that we were both silent.

The hills and towers and palm-trees died away
slowly, but we kept close enough inshore to see the
houses on the coast, while the blue Ghauts, sharp-edged
as a razor, ran some thirty miles inland. Here and
there Little towns like Eutnagherry nestled in an
emerald valley, at the end of a magnificent bay encircled
by hills. When the coast-line was not bright
and green with palm-trees, it stood out in hills and
bluffs of red conglomerate sandstone. Everything on
shore was either red or green, with a cloudless blue
sky above, a deep-blue sea in front, and the jagged
edges of the blue Ghauts behind. Xow we passed an
old Portuguese fort, perched on a bold bit of wave-worn
red laterite; now a little low green island,
shrouded with palm - trees, suddenly surprised our
helmsman, while he had to keep a sharp look-out
for the white-winged country craft that were always
tempting even the Tortoise to run them down. But
Mrs Fonblanque's skipper knew his work.

I could not, however, for all the beauty of the scenery,
forget my quarrel with Lydia, and the reason of
it — that wretched Mr Wylie. But I seemed to be on
my parole, and so could not mention his name. I

looked at Lydia. Her eyes were veiled in thought,
and told me nothing.

You are puzzled ? " she said, suddenly, " and I
scarcely wonder at it. Why did I change my plans ?
Why did I buy the yacht ? Why did I ask you to come
with me on this madcap cruise ? Simply because I
thought I had treated you rather badly. Hector, and
because, after considering everything very carefully,
from your point of view as well as from mine, there
seemed no reason why I shouldn't. You know my
terms — we can help each other with our friendship ;
but as I told you off Gwadur, there must be no word,
no thought, no hint of love between us* I am not
thirty, as you guessed once but I am old enough to
take care of myself, and I have the Sheik and Mr
Thornton to help me. Let us be, as we promised, the
warmest, truest friends in all the world."

But how can we be friends ? " I asked, " when
the friendship is all on one side, while on the other
there is love and nothing else. This yacht must have
cost you "

You must not talk of love. Hector, and never mind
the yacht."

How can I help minding it," I said. " I wrote to
my uncle about you from Bussorah, and he telegraphed
to me to come home at once. I have just read his
letter in reply to mine. ' Break stones,' he writes.

black boots, beg or steal, but never live on a woman.
Live your own life, starve or die. Be an individuality
to the last. Work out your own career as you please,
end in the poorhouse if you like, but never let a
woman be your banker.' What would he say if he
saw me lying on your Persian rugs at your feet, withall
the luxurious signs of your cheque-book around
us?"

Whatever he might say would not much matter,"
answered Lydia sighing wearily. " We have both to
live our lives out. You have Edith and your past,
and I have mine — a past more durable, as it has been
more painful, than yours, and, at all events, a sufficient
safeguard against your uncle's absurd suppositions.
Why do you harp on my money-bags ? I am an
individuality too, with feelings of my own, sir, quite
apart from them. I only bought the Tortoise because
I thought you might like to prolong the acquaintance
of a few days for a few days more, and now you talk
of nothing but my money-bags ! The few days will
soon be over. You can go to your future, and relegate
me to my past whenever you please. The instant
your conscience pricks you the captain will put you
ashore, and I will wave my handkerchief till you are
out of sight. That is what friendship means between
men and women — a sigh and a yawn."

Lydia turned her head away for a moment. Then

she suddenly turned round and stamped her little
foot at me.

You are a fool ! " she said, " you will never understand
me. I hate flattery. But why don't you talk
to me of my eyes, my hair, my neck, of anything but
those horrible money-bags ? Are they me ? What
have money-bags to do with the real life of you or me
or anybody else ? If you became immensely rich tomorrow,
would it make the slightest difference in my
feelings towards you whatever they may be ? Or if I
lost every penny I have "

I wish to heaven you would ! " I cried. " Make a
difference ! It would make all the difference in the
world. Then I could speak ! Then I could strive and
work and wait till you answered."

Hush, Hector ! " she said, laying a finger on her
lips. " Hush ! the Sheik will hear you." But her
eyes were soft and tender as they had been once or
twice before, and quite unconsciously she took the
hand I unconsciously stretched towards her. " I wish
I could unmake my life ; but I can't ! Why do you
think I brought that horrible Sheik here ? "

I cannot guess."

No more can I. I used to think him amusing.
Xow he fills me with nameless horrors and forebodings.
Priscilla implored me on her knees to leave him behind;
and though she has no better reasons than I

have, she watches him like a lynx. She loves me,
poor old creature, and she hates anybody I dislike.
Look at her now, as the Sheik is talking to Mr Thornton
and watching you and me with eyes that fall onus
like a blight ! She is never out of earshot, and if I
hadn't her in good control she would do him a mischief
with one of those daggers in the saloon. And yet
what an amusing man we thought him ! But never
mind the Sheik and my mad fancies. I must go and
give them both their tea. I don't know why I brought
him, but (this is a secret) I brought Mr Thornton to
neutralise the Sheik a little and keep him away from
us. I am sick of his sulks ! "

I had never quite realised Lydia's charming individuality
until she made tea for us that afternoon on
the quarter-deck. I had seen something of it in that
early morning meal off Bussorah; but here she was
on her own quarter-deck, almost in her own drawing-room.
Every little movement and attention seemed
instinct with womanly grace and tenderness. She
was at home. She was bidding me welcome, and in
another way welcoming the others.

Never been in England, Mrs Eonblanque ? " said
Thornton, as she handed him his teacup. " You are
happy ; never go there. If you must go, never own
that you have been in India, or they will look upon
you as a pleasing combination of bore and barbarian.

I daresay they are proud of India, as they read about
it in the telegrams, and they make a rare fuss about
all the rajahs who go home with their jewels and
queer costumes and tawny complexions. But the
Englishmen and Englishwomen who have spent their
lives out here are looked upon — well, much as they
look upon the tide-waiters and excise people in the
remoter corners of Scotland and Ireland. We are
out of the 'swim' of the last London season. Weare
as utterly contemned in London as the poets
of the Lakes school used to be. We are worse than
provincial."

Yes," answered Lydia. " I know from the society
papers what you mean, and it must be rather * rough '
on a man who has administered a district out here as
large as England itself, to find his only chance of
public Life at home on a vestry board."

And to be taunted in the local broad-sheets every
week with the taint of Anglo-Indian impropriety."

I don't think that matters," said Lydia. " Our
lives here are transparent. There are no doors and
shutters as at home. We all live in glass houses."

Toughened glass, though," laughed Thornton.

And so we all chatted on merrily. ISTo girl was ever
less of a flirt than Lydia ; but even the Sheik saw that
Thornton was almost as much fascinated as I was. 1
had never heard him talk so brilliantly before, and his

talk, when he liked, was a compliment to any woman.
Lydia was evidently pleased.

I don't see why you should turn back directly we
reach Goa," she said when the tea-tray was removed.
"Stay a few days with us there, at all events, Mr
Thornton, and have a look at the place."

My leave is up, Mrs Fonblanque ; and then Goa is
really not worth looking twice at," he replied, laughing.
" If you want to see something queer, go on to
Seroda."

Where's that ? " asked Lydia, " and what is it ? "

"A little town of girls and women, about thirty
miles above Goa, and the traditional nursery of our
Indian nautch-girls."

Were those dreadful Baroda dancing ^ women
brought up there ? " she inquired.

No ; they came from Tanjore, another nursery
altogether."

Then Thornton adroitly turned the conversation,
and would tell me nothing more about Seroda until
Lydia had retired for the night. In the meantime he
went back to his retreat and devoted himself assiduously
to the Sheik.

Lydia and I tried, when they left us, to revive our
interest in Schopenhauer's theory of friendship.

His friendship," I said, " is only the personal pleasure
of self-sacrifice."

"Yes," said Lyclia, "and a mixture of selfishness
and sympathy."

We were loth talking like parrots, and both thinks
of something else. At last I rebelled.

I care nothing," I cried, " for friendship, and as
for self-sacrifice, why, self-sacrifice never achieved anything
higher than St Simon Stylites on his pillar.
You would bring us back to the molluscs and the periwinkles.
No, no ! Finer organisms must have movement
and freedom and fair-play. It is love, not what
you call friendship in any form, selfish or otherwise,
that awakens the imagination and throws a new light
and glamour over all the common things in the world.
Love is art and life, and the intellectual soul of the
worker and the artist. Love gives him his impetus,
and the powers of endurance and creation throughout
all his doubts and difficulties."

But friendship has sympathy," said Lydia, " and
mutual obligations, and when one friend has too much
money and the other too little "

"Money," I exclaimed, "has nothing to do with
what we are discussing. stature — and art is only nature
concentrated — cannot be so vulgarly materialised.
A look, a word, a sign from you would have far more
influence than all the cheques you could ever write."

We were both silent for a moment.

Wliy not give me that sign, Lydia ? "

I can't," she said, quietly ; " you know I can't, and
you should not speak in that way. There can be no
signs or words of that sort between us, but there can
be friendship and mutual aid. Devote yourself to
some great work. Hector, for two or three years, and
let me help you a little out of my superabundance."

You ask me to take your money ! "

Xo ; I only want you to feel the necessity of
earnest work. You shall repay me with interest. I
know you well enough to be certain you would think
of nothing else till you repaid me. Listen to me.
Hector. You will be a dilettante to the end unless
you are rescued from your uncle — and yourself."

'thank you," I said, 'rand your money will save
me ? "

Xo, no ! Xot my money ! Perhaps I can. You
can't tell how lonely my life is. I long to be of use,
and your success would pay me back a thousandfold.
Why else should I have sought you out, and brought
you here, after you had wounded me so cruelly in
Bombay ? If I were a man, you would help me or let
me help you without a second thought. Forget that
I am a woman "

And take your money ! Lydia, you must be mad !
I don't want your money, and if I were ever unhappy
enough to need it, I would starve first, die first."

Xot if you loved me."

I love you."

ISTot if I loved you ? "

"You don't love me. I am pledged not even to
speak of love before you ! Don't tempt me with false
words and impossible hopes. But no, a thousand times
no ! Your money is a curse. I hate it, and the mystery
behind it. How happy we might have been if
we had met without that dreadful— — "

"If we had met years ago," she said with a sigh.
Perhaps. I don't know. I only wanted to help you.
I must help you in some other way."

Oh, how you could help me if you would ! It
is impossible that I can ever live without you now !
Help me ! Yes, how easily ! But not by tantalising
me with friendship and insulting me with offers of
money."

Oh," said Lydia, " don't say horrible things. You
don't know how you are torturing me. Remember
our contract, Hector, the best friends and the truest !
Hector, I feel the Sheik coming. I always feel his
presence now before I see him, and it is like a cold
cutting wind. Good night."

Stay ! stay ! why did you ask me what I would do
if you loved me ? Heaven knows that there is very
little I would not do if you bade me."

I was wrong, but I did not mean it in that way.
Good night ! Good night ! "

Seroda ? " I said to Thornton, not wishing to talk
myself after she had gone.

It's a queer old place," he replied, lighting his last
pipe, " and worth a visit, if Mrs Fonblanque will give
you a couple of days' leave. There are no men and no
streets. Its thatched cottages, and crumbling old tanks,
and temples, and pagodas seem to have been cast down
from some gigantic pepper-pot, anyhow and anywhere,
around the broad lotus-covered lakes. There are nomen
to be seen except a few white-haired decrepit old
priests."

Why only priests ? "

I don't know. There is some mysterious theory
about religion and sensuality going hand in hand ; and
at all events, the nautch-girls here, as elsewhere in
India, form a sort of religious sisterhood. They
hang about the temples and pay toll to the priests.
But at Seroda, where there are no other men, the
connection is perhaps more apparent than anywhere
else; and in this way Seroda is interesting ethnological
as the home of the Indian Bayaderes, who
in the good old days used to carry the fame of their
learned and pious instructors into every Court in
India."

You say ' used to ' ? "

Because the Courts are changed, like the princes.
The Naiquins have no perceptible influence now in

VOL. n.

Indian politics, and we marvel how they ever made
wars and ruled conquerors."

They are the Hetairai of India ? " I suggested.

"Exactly so," he answered. "In a minor degree,
and among lesser men, their influence and fascination
are as great as ever. The Greeks used to call them
companions,' which their other women, busied in the
nursery or the kitchen, certainly were not. These
Naiquins or courtesans of ours in India are also highly
educated. It is their one duty to please. They are a
caste apart, and no sort of social stigma is attached to
them. They are an almost national necessity in a
country of infant marriages and stunted womanhood,
and blinds and 'purdalis, or indeed in any country in
which the men are not allowed to woo their wives
before marriage. For this reason you have their
counterpart in Paris now. But in India, as in France,
they are often the objects of the most passionate attachment.
The cleverest of them make large fortunes,
and many, I fancy, deserve their good luck."

"Why?"

"Because their education is intensely laborious.
They live to please, and they know it. But few of
them really care for pleasure, and many, if they ever
have the chance, become faithful and devoted companions.
The Seroda girls I am speaking of are
trained from childhood in posturing and declamation,

in reading and writing, in singing and dancing, and, if
they show acute intelligence, in Sanscrit and the religious
books. At Seroda, moreover, they have the
additional reputation of extraordinary fairness, and
that is what the wealthier natives especially prize.
Whenever Indian ladies of position go to look at a
new baby, it is the civil thing to exclaim ' What a
wonderfully fair child ! ' "

But why should the Seroda nautch-girls have the
reputation of peculiar fairness ? "

The story goes that they are descended from a
colony of Portuguese nuns, who, bidding defiance to
their priests, fled from their nunnery to Seroda, and
did what they liked there. The story is, of course,
absurd. But the white ISTaiquins of Seroda are famous
far and wide for their fair skins and regular features.
They are certainly much fairer and comelier than
their Goanese sisters, and Seroda was probably the
secret pleasure-haunt of the old Portuguese Fadalgos
two or three centuries ago. That, I fancy, accounts
for the mystery, especially if all the Goanese men
were excluded from Seroda then as they are now."

So it may," I said, " but what did you really see
when you went there ? "

Seventy or eighty Naiquins, a third of them perhaps
grown up ; but girls of all ages, some of them
little ' tots ' of children, were brought into an old

house beside the big pagoda to show us how skilfully
they could dance and sing. A few of the elder girls
had really pretty faces, not many. All were fair, but
most of them, through systematic training and incessant
physical exercise, had perfect figures."

What becomes of them ? " I asked.

Ah ! they wait in Seroda until they are taken away.
In the first instance, I fancy, they are sold. They go
through a curious ceremony of marriage to a dagger.
But eventually they become independent of their
trainers. They have their own privileges and their
own laws, and their property all passes through the
female line, to show that the mothers and not the
fathers have made it. A number of them, oddly
enough, when their adventurous times are over, return
to Seroda to end their days in peace under the shadow
of the temples of their childhood, and, judging by the
costly jewels the old women at Seroda wear, they
must have feathered their nests to some purpose.
But perhaps the oddest thing at Seroda is the tomb of
an old Anglo-Indian major who retired there on his
pension, and was so much respected by the Naiquins
that they burned his remains in their way before they
buried his ashes in ours. But you are yawning,
Hicks. Get hold of Campbell's ' Indian Journal ' next
time you are in a good library, and look at Noel
Paton's sketch of an idealised Tarquin. That will
tell you all I have omitted."

Chapter XXXV.

Panjim, or New Goa, lies some three miles up a broad
arm of the sea, the meeting-place of many smaller
creeks and innumerable rivers. The country, farther
than you can venture, is intersected by waterways,
big or little, fresh or salt. For this reason there are
no carriages, and the women go about in palanquins,
and the men in little flat-bottomed boats called tones,
in which only the rowers have seats. Panjim is a
Christian town. You recognise this fact at once from
the swarms of lean pigs, lean almost as greyhounds,
that act everywhere as scavengers. There is nothing
worthy of note but the square — a kind of ill-kept
garden with a statue of the great Albuquerque in the
middle of it — the huge palaces of the Governor and
the Archbishop, and the Custom-house, all on the
edge of the creek. We knew nothing of the distinction
between New Goa and Old Goa when we anchored,
and we found everything painfully spick and span.
The houses, as a rule one storey high, were whitewashed

or colour-washed until they became uncomfortably
conspicuous. Their doors and windows were
painted in the brightest possible green. Some of the
more ancient houses had balconies, to which in former
days impassioned lovers might have sung from below,
just as in sunny Portugal ; and in these old houses
the window-panes were still filled in with filed-down
oyster-shells instead of glass. " Spick and span," that
is the best idea of Iste Goa if you can combine it
with a notion of cheap splendour. To-day Panjim is
the paradise of cooks. They loot their English conquerors
in India, and come back to Panjim with their
unhallowed savings, and there they are colonels and
majors, and heaven knows what.

The streets were of a disagreeable brick colour.
There was one hotel (just opened), and a few shops,
and very few Europeans, the leading man amongst
whom was a sturdy old American skipper, who had
taken root here from almost immemorial times. But
no matter what their rank, all the European Portuguese
went about in showy uniforms, and their ladies
in the latest Parisian fashion. Owing to the Exposition
the town was full of people en route to Old Goat
which all the good Catholics in India had to be
present if they could. The women in their graceful
mantillas, or the coloured kerchiefs they wore gipsy
fashion over the head and round the face, looked elegant

and picturesque in the distance ; and on this
festive occasion every side street was thronged with
black-robed black priests, and had its own brass band.
The Goanese are musicians as well as cooks, and they
not only make the music for all the native regiments
in India, but they go as far afield as Zanzibar, and
Mozambique, and Muscat.

We took a turn round the town, and then determined
to leave the Tortoise at anchor, and start at
once in one of her boats for Old Goa itself. While
we were discussing the question, a courtly, portly
Portuguese gentleman approached us. I was reading
an extract from the latest history of Goa, a bulky
book that had just appeared. He introduced himself
with a pleasant smile as its author, and very civilly
offered to accompany us as cicerone ; and he began his
self-imposed duties by showing us over Government
House, which was hung with portraits of old Portuguese
worthies in ruffs and Vandyke cloaks. By this
time our boat had been stored with food and clothes
enough for a two or three days' trip, and we enjoyed
the row up the creek, lined, as it was on both sides,
with villages, and gardens, and cocoa-nut groves, and
villas, and cottages, and old palaces, and crumbling
wharves, about which our guide had much to say.

"We should stop here," he said suddenly. "The
girls are on show to-day, on account of the festivities,

and very likely we shall see their future husbands
choosing them."

We landed and went to the College of Our Lady of
Serra, where nearly a hundred young orphan girls are
educated by the nuns until they are old enough for
marriage. On high days and holidays the college is
thrown open to young men in need of a wife. All the
girls, as we saw them drawn up for inspection, poor
things, were neat and clean, with beautiful dark
tresses, but, as there were a few sheepish-looking
Portuguese lads in the room, they were rather shy.
The lads go round with the head matron and shake
hands with all the girls in the first class. Then they
send in their applications to the committee ; and if
they can pay a hundred rupees to the college, they are
married to the girls of their choice. This was love at
first sight with a vengeance, and the young men
looked terribly perplexed, as we interrupted the first
and last flirtation they were ever likely to have.
Lydia — and I daresay she was right — said that the
girls, in spite of their nervousness, thought it great fun.
Thornton agreed with her, and related an amusing experience
he had once had in a Bombay hotel. He was
awakened by a friend very early one morning and
told that a number of men were drawing lots for
brides in the dining-room. He dressed hastily and
went down, and found that a consignment of Moravian

girls had just arrived from Europe. In this devoted
community all the sons of Indian missionaries return
to the country as missionaries, while the girls, whose
business it is to be missionaries themselves, have to
come out as missionaries' wives. The young men are
not allowed to marry till they have been some years
in India, but the same steamer had brought out a
number of girls and young men, who had become
attached to one another on the voyage, and who
mutually resented the appearance of the elderly
gentlemen who had hastened down to Bombay from
all parts of India to claim such brides as Providence
should send them. Most of the girls were in
tears.

I call that dreadful," said Lydia.

It is worse than Seroda," said I.

I fancy not," said Thornton. " I suspect that
these Moravian marriages and those marriages from
our historical friend's College of Our Lady of Serra areas
happy as any. The girls start young, and if their
husbands are men of any force of character "

Here Lydia and Thornton had a little battle, and
our cicerone, the historian, was so much abashed by
the reflections that I was able to throw in sideways
on the system in vogue at the College of Our Lady of
Serra, that, quite against the spirit of his book, he
lamented the downfall of the Portuguese power in

India and the ayant of spirit in the Portuguese
Government at home. "Look at our salaries," he
cried, " and contrast them with yours ! " and then he
became really eloquent. There is nothing, after all,
like a monetary standard.

We were once," he said — much as that poor mad
doctor had said it before him — " the richest, proudest,
and bravest people in India, and now we are only the
proudest. The Viceroy of Goa lived like a king. We
were a nation of soldiers and merchant-princes and
priests, most of them nobles. But our marts and
fortresses were soon dominated by the Church. The
cowl, and the scowl beneath it, brought about the ruin
of the Portuguese empire in India. After Albuquerque's
death the whole city from Matins to the Angelus
was filled with ecclesiastical clamour. St Francis
Xavier, in his ten years in the East, more than three
hundred years ago, made more converts than there are
Catholics in India now. In our archives we have
official records of more than seventy auto-da-fe, at
which, amidst tears and prayers and public rejoicing,
many thousands of infidels and renegades were burnt
alive. The Inquisition was more powerful here than
anywhere in Europe."

And so," said Thornton, " put an end to Goa — and
itself."

I am a good Catholic," replied our historian, " but

I cannot contradict you there. Goa, however, still
embodies all the traditions of our national splendour.
Every able-bodied man in Portugal would spend his
last drop of blood in its defence, and to serve here is
the highest ambition of our best men at home. And
what a service it is as compared with yours ! Nothing
shows our decadence better than a few fissures I
quoted in my book. Our Governor-general gets one
thousand and forty rupees a-month ; your local governors
of Bombay and Madras get ten thousand. Our
judges of the High Court draw two hundred and
sixty rupees a-month, and yours nearly four thousand,
and yet they come from much the same class
at home, whether in England or in Portugal, and
keep up much the same state in India. The front
makes all the difference. You are an English
civilian," he said suddenly to Thornton; 'what, if you
will permit me to be curious, do you yourself draw ? "

Only two thousand five hundred rupees," retorted
Thornton, glad to ventilate a personal grievance.

More than twice as much as our Governor-general;
and is your office important ? "

No, a sham or a sinecure ! But then I've been unlucky,
and they will have to do something better forme
by-and-by."

Ah ! " said the historian. " But no matter how poor
we are ; to-day, at all events, you will see us at our best."

Old Goa, in spite of its crowds of pilgrims and its
newly whitewashed churches and steeples and monasteries,
was in reality a city of the dead, with something
like a dozen permanent inhabitants to toll the
bells and chant the services in its deserted cathedral
and its churches. But for the time being everything
was changed. In a few steps from the river we came
upon one of the busiest scenes I had ever witnessed.
As if by magic a temporary town had sprung up amid
the ruins and palm-trees, and there were more than
thirty thousand pilgrims in it who had laboriously travelled
hither on very small means from all parts of
India. They were housed in immense " hotels " — so
styled on flaunting pasteboard placards — made by
stretching sticks and bamboo poles from one palm-tree
to another for about a hundred yards, and then
coverings them in with leaves and mud. There were
rows and streets of bamboo bazaars — liquor-shops,
cook-rooms, bakers' stalls, and shanties for the sale
of tobacco, fruit, and sweet-stuffs. There was an
Italian panorama of the Eusso - Turkish war, with
many other exhibitions and peep - shows of a less
heroic character. In the stalls, jumbled together
pell-mell, lay Jerusalem rosaries, showy exhortations
to prayer, grim pictures and images of saints, amber
chaplets, ivory and ebony crucifixes, and candles of all
colours and all sizes, to be offered up at the various

shrines. The pilgrims were poor, though their enthusiasm
was great, and everything was of the cheapest.
These bazaars ran across the ruins and moss-covered
tombs, and over broken walls and half-filled
ditches and stumps of palm-trees, right up to the
church of the Bon Jesus, which was besieged all
day long by a prodigious crowd of men and women
and children, many of them cripples, and some borne
in the arms of their friends. Most of the pilgrims
were low-caste native Christians, but there were thousands
of orthodox Hindus who, without deserting
their own faith, were anxious to see what St Francis
Xavier could do for their infirmities. It was a painful
walk, interrupted at every step by the appeals of
squalid beggars, maimed, diseased, and disfigured, all
trying to make money out of their miseries.

The crumbling, grass-grown ruins of Old Goa resounded,
as we went through them, with sacred music,
and the ringing of bells, the firing of cannon, and the
letting off of fireworks. Here we met a procession of
the different religious communities, in copes of blue,
and red and white tunics, with torch-bearers carrying
lighted tapers round the huge gilt crucifix in front.
There we saw a much more pathetic procession of
travel-stained pilgrims — a whole village together, old
men and children, boys and girls and women — coming
from some remote corner of India, and marching

slowly along, bareheaded, and singing hymns, with
their grey old padre in the midst of them. The pilgrims
had to wait for hours, almost for days, before
they could be admitted to view St Francis Xavier's
body. But they were very orderly and terribly in
earnest. Goa is the Mecca of oriental Christianity,
and no one can guess the sacrifices that most of the
pilgrims had made to be present, or the household
stinting before and afterwards. Just as at Mecca,
they had a short-lived. joy. The moment after they
had seen and touched the sacred corpse, they had to
quit the city, so as to make room for others ; and yet
for five holy weeks a compact living mass of fervent
pilgrims pressed on, day by day, towards St Francis
Xavier's shrine.

Many were the stories our guide told us of the
miracles already wrought upon those who had kissed
the saint's feet, or gazed with faith into his well and
seen the weird light that only shines through its deep
black waters so long as his body is exposed, or who had
spent a midnight in the ruined chapel, in which St
Francis, overpowered by the raptures of divine love,
was wont to cry out " Enough, Lord, enough ! " Hundreds
of poor creatures, brought here in extremis, died
on their pilgrimage ; but hundreds, again, believed that
they were cured by the interposition of a saint whose
life was full of miracles — who had turned salt water

into fresh, who had tamed the tigers that attacked
him, who had made a crab bring up his crucifix from
the bottom of the deep sea, and whose bruised and
wounded body, as all could witness, had been miraculously
preserved from his age to this. Great is faith !
The miracles at the last Exposition were judicially and
canonically approved by a formal Commission ; and
even during our short stay there we heard a man, led
about by a child, declaring, in spite of the doctors, that
he had recovered his eyesight. .

Our guide took us through the thorny jungle from
one ruin to another. The walls of twenty-five or
thirty churches were still standing, and half-a-dozen
of them — each big enough for a great European city
were still used. The churches, like the Jesuit
churches all the world over, had elaborate facades.
In front they were grand buildings. Behind they
were serviceable barns, vast and roomy, with tall
towers and roofs of red tiles ; and their interiors
were decorated with imitation marble and tinsel, and
cheap flags, and grotesque frescoes and pictures and
coloured prints, that would have been more at home
in an English music-hall. Here and there we came
across a magnificent marble monument that had defied
the teeth of time. In the churches, as in the crowds,
there was a singular mixture of robust faith and
childish simplicity and tawdriness. But the religion

seemed to suit the people, and our guide assured us
that the Eoraan Catholics are the only missionaries
who make any real headway in India. Then we
went through the ruins of the Viceregal Palace and
the Viceroy's Arch on the river, at which, from a
procession of stately barges, each new Viceroy used
to disembark. We tried to enter the corner of an
almost impenetrable forest, now haunted by snakes
and owls and bats, where a convent, three-quarters
of a mile in length, stood once. Three-quarters of a
mile of loveless womanhood — women who had been
girls, and girls who had been children, asphyxiated
by seclusion, pale-checked and shallow-breasted and
hollow-eyed, and kept in the paths of virtue by the
iron hand of the Inquisition ! Xo wonder that Goa
had fallen into utter desolation, like the Cities of the
Plain ! "With a shudder we saw all that is loft of the
terrible palace of the Inquisition and the Bishop's
ghastly prison. Here, where the Inquisition had been
so strong and cruel, nature had at last reasserted her
supremacy. Trees and roots had forced themselves
through the walls and loop-holed chambers, and had
broken open the stern cold dungeon-cells, to which
hopeless prisoners had once gone shivering. Ruined
walls, no matter how thick and massive, were crowned
and covered now with ferns and moss, and green
creeping-plants and bright flowers, all trying to blot

out the infernal human cruelty that had made this
proud Portuguese city the most dissolute place under
the sun, and had eventually destroyed it.

And yet all the stones of these wrecked and weatherworn
buildings were so many fossilised remains of the
first Christian upheaval in India, an effort among the
bravest and kindliest that humanity has attempted,
and they were all just now eloquent in praise of one
of the purest men who ever breathed, St Francis Xavier
the " Star of the East," from Goa to Japan — a martyr
whom all the Churches accept as a true apostle.

The open space in front of the church of Bon Jesus
was guarded, as we approached it, by some three or
four hundred European and native soldiers and four
guns — in fact, by the whole Goanese army. The
crowd here, where it was thickest, was still quiet and
orderly. We were permitted to enter through the
neighbouring convent, and this brought us at once
into a rich chapel containing the magnificent mausoleum,
where the body of St Francis Xavier usually
reposes, each portion of which had been the gift of
kings. There were three coffins, and the outer coffin
of pure silver was emblazoned with the Saint's piteous
cry, 'satis est Domine, sails est'' — "Enough, Lord,
enough!" The three coffins rest on three long,
broad, deep steps of the rarest jasper, guarded at
every corner of every step by marble angels, and

VOL. IL p

faced all round with bronze tablets, telling the story
of the saint's life, and of his death when he fell
pierced through and through with the arrows of the
heathen he came to succour.

The body rested on a railed platform in the centre
of the church, just below a solid silver statue of the
saint. It was much shrunken, and seemed not more
than four feet long ; but only the face, the feet, and
the left hand were visible, the rest being covered with
a rich chasuble embroidered with gold and pearls.
The skin was hardened and shrivelled, and of a tawny
brownish colour, while a grateful odour of sandalwood
hung about the corpse. There was still a Httle hair
on the head, and on the face and forehead we could
see signs of the wounds of which St Francis had died
in China more than three centuries before. It was a
painful and ghastly relic, and, to those who believed
in its miraculous preservation, a relic of the interest
and holiest interest. We stood face to face with the
man who aided Ignatius Loyola to found the great
Society of Jesus, and who made the Society — the most
powerful political organisation that ambition has ever
employed — as strong in the East as it afterwards
became in Europe. Alongside the body, once the
tabernacle of a noble and indomitable soul, lay the
symbol of his earthly power — a Mto7i, encrusted with
some two hundred emeralds, which St Francis had

himself wielded as the " Defender of the East." And
to this day every new Governor General of Goa has to
touch the hdton before he can establish his redit of
succession.

Through the strong wooden barriers the pilgrims
streamed past, pausing for a moment to kiss the
saint's left foot, and to leave their candles, and what
gifts of money they could afford. They were mainly,
of course, native Christians, but there was a sprinkling
of Hindus, a people charitable enough to believe in
the human merits of any saint whose life has been
good and unselfish. Like the others, they brought
their candles and their offerings, and they, too, piously
kissed St Francis' feet.

When it was our turn to approach the corpse, I
noticed that Lydia crossed herself, and during High
Mass — when we all felt the touching and sublime
grandeur of the service of the Church of Eome — she
whispered to me that she was a Catholic. Four
bishops in mitre and cope stood at the four corners of
the platform, and behind it the Archbishop of Goa,
mitred and in full canonicals, with the Governor-general
and all the high officials in uniform. The
church by this time was densely filled. There were
six women to every man, and down below all the
women wore a white scarce over their black hair and
picturesque dresses. In the galleries reserved for the

European aristocracy, the ladies, and the men too,
appeared in full evening costume. At last the host
was elevated to the flare of trumpets, the boom of
cannon, and the clanging of great bells. The choir
burst into song, and suddenly the church was filled
with heavy incense. An indescribable enthusiasm
thrilled through the congregation like an electric
shock. When the Archbishop, in the name of the
Pope, pronounced his solemn blessing, the crowd,
sensitive and excited beyond measure, shivered and
trembled like reeds in the wind. Some of the women
fainted, many of them wept aloud, and the men —
cooks and butlers and tailors, fishermen and ploughmen
— sobbed out with St Francis Xavier in his agony,
Satis est Domine, satis est I " Nothing is so infectious
as the feelings of a crowd really in earnest.
I was moved myself, and Lydia was strangely
stirred. When we reached the open air again, she
asked the others to make arrangements for our food
and lodgings, and becjcred me to take her out of the
turmoil for a while. She was nervous and excited,
and half inclined to cry. She wanted fresh air and
solitude.

We wandered away through the forest, and climbed
a little isolated hill. Below us we saw ruined arsenals
and palaces, and ramparts, and quays, along the broad
blue creek, and its bluer offshoots, glistening like

threads of silver as they neared the Ghauts. Nearer
at hand there were grand squares and broad streets,
and great forts, all in ruins too, and everywhere the
encroaching forest showed that nature is stronger
than man. The proudest, sternest conquerors of the
East have here bent their heads to nature at last, and
the scenes of their triumphs are now buried beneath
moss-covered walls, and shattered columns, and broken
arches, telling of nothing but desolation and decay.

Lydia's conversation was more solemn than it ever
had been. She said nothing of personal matters, as
she permitted me to see a new and unexpected phase
of a nature as varied as it was strong. But though
she said nothing of herself or me, her sweet and
earnest words showed how keenly alive she was to the
responsibilities of each of us. Love, as she spoke, was
purified into something higher and ampler than I had
ever dreamt of, until the most hopeless love — such as
that of mine for her — became the purest and noblest
of all. So we sat, conversing and thinking as we
watched the grass-grown ruins down below. We forgot
our companions, just as we had forgotten ourselves,
and it jarred upon us at last to be told that they were
waiting for us at the old convent of St Monica.

The sun, as we rose, was on the very point of sinking,
and for a moment the ruins on the river were
touched and glorified with gold and crimson.

Oh, how cold they look now ! " said Lydia, with a
shiver, when the sun disappeared. "Those desolate
ruins seem almost human, Hector. They bring me
back cruel thoughts about the past. Has the past no
terrors for you, when the sun sinks suddenly, and
everything is blank and chill?"

No, dear," I replied, hastening her steps. " It is
not the past I care for, but the future. You are
weary and over-wrought. Let us hurry on to the
convent."

Here, where eight hundred Augustinian nuns had
once found shelter, their sole survivor, a feeble old
lady of ninety years, sat among a number of native
lay sisters, busily engaged in selling rosaries and
sweetmeats. One wing of the convent was temporarily
used as an hotel, and Thornton had secured a
suite of fine rooms looking into a dense jungle that
had been the convent garden. "We dined there
quietly. But Lydia was sad and tired after our long
day's labours. Her melancholy threw a gloom over
the rest of the party, and with one excuse or another
we all retired early to our chambers.

I was in no humour for sleep. I leant lazily on
the balcony listening to the faint hum of the pilgrims
in their rude tents alongside the creek, as I thought
over the events of the last three days as impartially as
I could. Suddenly the ringing of a great bell startled

me. I heard hurried footsteps in the echoing corridors.
In a few minutes after that I heard a voice in
the garden whisper, " Hist ! hist ! "

I replied as cautiously. Priscilla was there, I found,
waiting to take me to her mistress. I lowered myself
quietly from the balcony. Priscilla led me through a
narrow garden-path, overgrown with rank weeds and
tall thick grass, to a rough garden-seat, on which I
saw Lydia crouching, with her face buried in her hands.

I sent for you, Mr Hicks," she said in a voice that
seemed dry and hard and full of pain. " I could not
rest to-night without seeing you."

She motioned Priscilla to retire to a distance. Then
she rose and laid her hand on my arm, just as in the
Gulf of Oman.

I have received a telegram," she continued, " and
my whole life is changed."

For the better or the worse ? "

I scarcely know. But my life is changed."

How, Lydia, and why ? " I asked, eagerly.

I have just heard," she said, in a lower voice than
before, "that I have lost everything— every rupee I
possessed is gone."

Lydia ! " I cried, " what a splendid thing for both
of us ! Now you will let me wain you if I can ! "

A penniless woman ! "

A woman who can now love me if she will as I

have loved her ever since we met ! Oh ! you don't
know how I can work when I have a motive, or how
I will slave for sou day and night ! You offered me
your money as a motive. Now I have a motive worth
living for. But how did it all happen, Lydia ? "

Through failure and fraud and defaulting trustees,
I suppose," she said, listlessly. " But never mind the
telegram or the money " — and here she crushed up the
message in her hand as if she would annihilate it —
"let us forget them both, and never, never mention
either of them again. Tell me what to do. Hector, and
talk of the future, not of the past."

Here and there in the shadow of the great trees the
ghosts of pale-faced nuns seemed to glide in the starlight
beneath the rustling branches, as I spoke to
Lydia with passionate eagerness in the intensity of
my love. For a time — it seemed an eternity — she
listened in silence. Then she raised her eyes to mine.

I wonder if you really love me ? "

I took her hand and kissed it.

My heart, my soul, my life are in that kiss ! " I
said. " But you know I love you."

Yes, I know it ! " she answered slowly, with a long
shivering sigh. " But is your love strong enough to
withstand what we may have to go through ? Tonight
has been very painful to me ; how painful I
cannot tell you. Do you love me well enough, Hector,

to swear that you will never, directly or indirectly,
refer to to-night again ? "

There is no oath," I said, solemnly, "that I would
not take, and nothing I would not do, now you have
got rid of the accursed burden that kept us apart ! "

Lydia dropped my hand with a shudder. She looked
me steadily in the eyes for a minute, and then, with a
gentle touch, that seemed to say her doubts were over,
her hand again softly stole into mine.

Oh ! " she said, " how hard it is to think, how hard
it is to know what I should do ! I believe you, dear ;
and I am trying to do right. But I want some one
stronger than either of us to help me."

I am almost mad to-night ! " she continued, after
a pause. " What I saw to-day, and what has happened
since, brought my whole life back again, and all my
innocent girlish thoughts, when our religion seemed
the grandest thing in the world to me. You will never
refer to to-night, Hector ? You will never mention
anything I told you in my excitement ? "

Never, I swear it 1 "

•" Then " said Lydia.

Then," I cried, " you are mine for life and death,
mine only as I am yours "

But when I sought to kiss her lips as a pledge, she
buried her face in her hands, and sobbed as if her
heart were breaking.

[Not to-nisjht of all nights," she sobbed.

Suddenly she clutched my arm.

Beside us, like a spectre, stood a black-robed priest.
He carried a quaint old lantern in his hand, and by its
flickering light we saw a countenance that was almost
superhuman in its intense humanity. His worn and
emaciated features bore traces of lifelong suffering
and self-denial. His eyes were lit up with a look of
infinite and indescribable pity. His long snow-white
beard fell in heavy folds on his black robe. His broad
forehead was marked with a deep brown scar. He
leant, bent and bowed, on a staff; but, in spite of his
age, it was easy to see that he had been a soldier in
his youth.

You are suffering, sister," he said, in a voice very
courteous, and tender, and musical. " I saw you today
in the crowd, and something to-night prompted
me to come and seek you. Tears like yours are not
for the young. I am an old man, with many sins and
griefs to atone for. Let an old priest aid you in your
trouble."

Lydia sank down on the bench before him with her
face still clasped in her hands.

What she said I know not. I could hear her earnest
pleading, from the leafy corner to which I had withdrawn
; and T could hear his low, fervent exhortations.
When the suspense became almost unendurable, the

old priest bade me come to them. Without a word he
put her hand in mine.

If you love me," she said tremulously, as we stood
hand in hand for a while, " I must marry you. I told
him everything. He is the best, and kindest, and
wisest man I have ever met. He has given me absolution
for the past, and his blessing for the future, and
he says that we must either marry or part. Hush, Hector
! " she exclaimed, as I tried to interrupt her, " I could
never face Mr Thornton or the Sheik again if we had
to tell them we mean to marry. You can't think how
nervous and excited I am to-night. But I could never
explain what has happened since I saw them ; and
how could I meet either of them again if they thought
I had bought the yacht because I wanted you to love
me?"

Then let us run away," I whispered, snatching at
a forlorn hope. " Let us run away in our own yacht
before the sun rises ; let us cut off all ties with the
past, and leave Thornton and the Sheik behind us."

Oh ! " she cried, " oh ! to get rid of them ! I would
give anything to get rid of them ! "

But Lydia refused to go. It was only after the
return of the priest, who had left us to ourselves fora
moment, that she would even talk about going.

I asked him to plead my cause for me; and he
seemed to have an almost mesmeric influence over her.

His voice was far more eloquent than mine. He
simply told us to go at once to Male, a tiny French
settlement down the coast, and, if I understood him
rightly, a place for hasty marriages, a kind of Indian
Gretna Green. Here, as she was a Catholic, we could
be married if we chose ; and he promised to help us
to arrange everything beforehand, so as to make all our
difficulties smooth in advance. He showed us clearly
that we had to act promptly, that we must part at
once and for ever, or prove that we would never be
parted. I agreed with the very first words he spoke ;
and eventually Lydia consented to leave the Sheik and
Thornton without any present explanation, and write
to them afterwards.

Can't we leave Priscilla too ? " I asked.

Certainly not," Lydia answered. " She will be our
mainstay ; " and so it proved.

We stole quietly down to the landing-place by the
light of the priest's lantern, as Lydia led him almost
affectionately by the arm. Priscilla, with a few
hastily whispered words, collected the boat's crew.
The old priest gave us both his blessing ; and Lydia,
after I had lifted her into the boat, said, " He has
blessed us, Hector. He is a good man! He knows
what I am doing. He says I am right ; and I cannot
tell you what kind and thoughtful words he spoke.
How strange that I should have met him again tonight,

just when I wanted help and strength ! But
oh, Hector ! will you ever regret it ? "

In less than ten minutes the priest's tall, bent figure
was lost to us, and the men were straining at their
oars. We started by torchlight, feeling our way
cautiously between the river's banks. Then the dawn
broke slowly, but everything ^s yet was silent as death.
The air was moist and cold. Lydia let me hold one of
her hands in mine, and as the still air turned colder
she allowed me to fold her cloak close around her with
my other arm. Priscilla, who had sat down beside
the man at the tiller, was the life and soul of us allas
she urged the crew to pull quickly. The cold grey
light grew lighter and warmer. The river was fringed
to the water's edge with stunted shrubs. The broad
low-lying fields, and the feathery cocoa-nut groves
beyond, stood out gay and smiling from their solemn
dark-green background ; and, far in the blue distance,
the Ghauts rose like giant sentinels of this slumbering
solitude.

We have caught nature asleep," I said to Lydia,
trying to cheer her as I readjusted her wraps. " I never
saw anything more lovely ; but in a minute or two I
shall find you in the same plight too, dear."

She had a pretty soft white woollen wrapper over
her head. But she pushed it off impatiently as I
spoke.

I am very tired," she answered, " but I don't want
to sleep. I am excited and frightened. I wonder if
anybody will follow us. I wish we had never gone.
I wish we were on board. Don't talk to me ; don't
tease me, please. I feel just as I do when there is a
thunderstorm coming ; and oh, how wretched ! "

I could only put my arm very tenderly round her
cloak again, and try to comfort her.

She nestled close beside me. " I am hot one
moment," she said, "and cold the next, and pulses
seem to be throbbing all over me. Do please make
the men go on ! "

The men rowed gallantly, and the tide was now in
their favour. Here and there as our boat leapt forward
with each powerful stroke, a grey ruin at the top of
some solitary hill just caught the golden splendour of
the sunrise. The brightly painted houses, with their
quaint peaked roofs, hid themselves among the palms,
now at last softly stirred by the salt breeze from the
sea ; and the birds began to sing. Suddenly Priscilla
gave a low cry of exultation. We had reached Panjim.
The hazy tones of colour around this gaudy little town
were exquisitely beautiful, and the palm-clad hills
were covered half-way up with thin mists. "We
climbed on board the Tortoise. The fires in the
engine-room had never been damped down, and, while
the engineer was getting up steam, Lydia sent ashore

for a boat that could be towed after us until she had
written out some telegrams she wanted to send off.
It was broad daylight now, as we passed the Fort and
the Palace, perched on the two tall hills, one on each,
that guard the entrance to the Goa river.

Then at last Lydia broke down, and the moment
after her telegrams were despatched she fell sound
asleep in a long chair on deck. But we had done
what we meant to do; we had cut ourselves adrift
from the world. We were going to Mahe, where the
world could trouble us no longer, as fast as sails and
steam could bear us.

Oh, the plans we made that morning ! And the
dreams we each spoke out aloud to the other when
once we felt pursuit to be impossible. " Money ? "
What was it? And then for months, perhaps for
years, we had goods enough on board the yacht to
keep two simple people going.

How depressed and sad Lydia had been yesterday,
and how suddenly she entered into the sombre feelings
of all around her. To-day she was a new being altogether.
There was a bright, joyous look in her eyes,
and an unsuspected dimple in her chin. She flitted
about the quarter-deck like a bird, and she coloured
like a girl when I spoke to her. Lie insisted on
steering the yacht herself, and scolded me merrily for
not being able to act as captain.

Oh you woe-begone creature, you," she said ; " take
the helm, wreck the yacht ! I shall never scold you
again, whatever you do ; but I want to talk today."


And so we talked all through the morning, stopping
only whenever we picked up the log to ask the captain
how many knots we had sailed from Goa.

"After Mahe," said Lydia, at last, with a faint
blush, " we will just sail on and on till we are tired of
sailing. When we want anything we will put in somewhere
and sell a carpet, or a few pearls, or some arms.
I think we might arrange for an auction on board off
Colombo, Hector. I will give a free lunch to everybody
who comes, and you shall be the auctioneer.
You thought me extravagant when I purchased all
these things ; but how wonderfully provident I really
was. I bought them cheap ; I shall sell them dear.
Why, that Hicks' pearl, which cost us sixty rupees
only, should be almost a fortune in itself. And when
we are tired of the yacht wee can sell that too, and buy
a pretty cottage, and then you can paint your pictures,
while I do the housekeeping, and we will live all by
ourselves on next to nothing, and be the happiest
people that ever were. What is money when you
have a ship full of fine things and a new market at
every new port ? We might barter, too, if our European
customers should happen to be stingy, and get

legs of mutton, and turkeys, and yams, and gold dust,
and ivory, and precious stones from the savages, and
so become immensely rich."

But I thought you did not wish to be immensely
rich."

Of course not, dear," she answered, " not, if you
don't like it. I merely want to do what you wish;
but we can't live for ever on a ship, and our cottage
means money, for I should, if you please, Hke a cottage
of our own without a landlord. Then you will want
money to pay for your paints, and I suppose my
dresses will wear out. What kind of a cottage would
you like ? "

"A red-roofed cottage by a waterfall, and with a
broad verandah."

Yes, and with a lake behind it. The lake will do
for your pictures, and we can row on it every afternoon.
The furniture. Hector ? "

There," I said, " we must be very economical indeed
at first. I think one arm-chair should be enough
for both of us."

I think so," she answered — " at first at all events.
How stupid wealthy people are ! Why, we have a
dozen arm-chairs on deck here, and one surely should
be enough for you and me ! "

To-day ? " I asked, moving towards her.

VOL. II. Q

To-day ? I am not quite certain about to-day ;
but tomorrow ! How different everything is from
yesterday ! "

And it all comes from losing your money ! "

Here Lydia sighed a little.

You are sorry for your money already ? " I
asked.

"Xot a bit," she cried; "I am puzzled and bewildered,
that is all. I don't know why we deserve
to be together like this, or why you and I are both
sitting on one chair without anybody scolding
us."

"One chair is quite enough," I said. "We must,
whether we like it or not, consider our ways and
means, and the sooner we begin the better. Don't
you think we ought to send the other chairs down at
once, so as to keep them safe and sound until we have
our auction ? "

"Yes, dear," said Lydia; "but we can't do all we
ought. I really don't like to tell the men to take
away all the chairs but one. We'll permit them to
remain as they are, and send them to Coventry."

And so we talked on and on.

Oh, what a beautiful sky it was ! "Wliat a deep
blue sea ! What a lovely coast ! What a still starlit
nidit !

We were at Tellicherry before we thought it
possible.

This is the best port for Mahe," said the captain ;
and as we had told him to hurry on to Mahe as fast
as ever the Tortoise could steam, we were obliged to
ao ashore at once.

Chapter XXXYL

Lydia left the yacht reluctantly, as if she needed a
little respite and breathing-time before making up her
mind to plunge into an utterly unknown world. Her
joyous manner had gone. Again she was full of forebodings,
and she clung to me in a timid, anxious way,
as we went together down the ladder.

The fantastic view in front was, however, reassuring.
The country between us and the bold blue Ghauts
might be mysterious, but it was exceedingly beautiful.
Tellicherry itself is a queer little collection of picturesque
white houses, standing on red laterite. Palm-trees
and large-leaved plants and brilliant tropical
flowers come right down to the surf as it breaks upon
the shore, and, when they are stopped there, turn back
to cover the deep valley and the ridge of low hills
behind it with glowing foliage. Our boatmen rowed
us as far as a reef, two or three hundred yards from
the actual coast-line, and from this we had to be
carried to the land. The Moplah fishermen and sailors,

who ran out to meet our boat, are Arabs by descent ;
and though they must have Hindu blood in their
veins now, they are still the most fanatical Mussulman
in India. The long knives they wear in their
scanty girdles have given the British Government as
much trouble as the swords and scimitars of the pure
Mohammedan races. They are big brawny fellows,
with the chests and the arms of a Hercules. Their
physique, as they bore us ashore without an effort, was
magnificent ; but, on reaching shallow water, we were
shocked to see how many of them were disfigured with
elephantiasis, their legs from the ankle upwards being
almost as large in girth as their waists.

To my surprise we were not unexpected. A native
gentleman, who, from his retinue, must have been a
person of consideration, accosted us courteously as we
landed, and, with the aid of an English interpreter,
explained that he had been warned from Mahe to
make our journey as pleasant as possible. The interpreter
would say no more than this ; but, at his suggestion,
Mrs Fonblanque despatched Priscilla and the
escort of native sailors Priscilla had brought ashore, in
three of the bullock bandies at our disposal.

Then the native gentleman, proud of Tellicherry,
and, above all else, anxious to be civil, led us through
the town.

Lydia's vague surmises were right. "We had plunged

into a new world altogether. The bazaars were full of
people, as we went through them, and the girls and
women, shopping there busily among the crowd of
men, were scarcely darker than the women of Southern
Europe. Tall and lithe, though fully formed, perfect
in figure as in feature, they were dressed, one and all, in
nothing but a light petticoat, reaching half-way to the
knee. They walked here and there, and up and down,
through the narrow streets of Tellicherry, with such a
frank and almost inconceivable abandon, that it was
impossible to imagine purer or more innocent types of
womanly gracefulness. How careless they were of
strange eyes like ours ! How different, in their slim
figures and perfect limbs, from the bloated Molars
we had just left behind us ; and how extraordinarily
different from the closely veiled women of the Gulf !
They were Teyer women, the interpreter told us, and
only modest women are permitted to go about in this
way. The others have to veil themselves.

On the confines of the town we bade farewell to our
courteous native friend; and as the day was still
young, we sent our bullock bandy on in front, and
sauntered slowly after it on foot. Tellicherry 'is only
thirteen miles from ]\Iahe ; but everything was new
and strange, and we made the most of our little journey.
The road, worn deep into the red soil, with
thick hedges on either side, just like a Devonshire

lane, wound round the coast, coming out unexpectedly
now and then on the beach beside some lonely fishing
hamlet. In front we had the broad white surf-line and
the still deep-blue ocean beyond it ; and inland the
fertile country rose gradually towards the Ghauts, now
half veiled in the sultry mid-day mists. Nature seemed
to have put on her brightest smile to welcome Lydia.

The road, as we strolled along its cool, green-shaded
pathway, was still thronged, here and there, with
groups of girls and women. Some bore great brass
jars of water on their heads ; others baskets of strange
fish and curious fruit. By the well-side or the river
we saw them, laughing and singing and chatting, or
splashing each other merrily, but unconscious everywhere
as Eve had once been. They wore bright
flowers in their long black tresses. They had small,
soft features, delicately modelled limbs, clear olive-coloured
skins, eyes as coy and eloquent as a gazelle's.
We seemed to puzzle them a good deal, as we stopped
to return their shy friendly greetings, and their naive
was rather embarrassing.

Here at last in the green woods we found nature at
home, innocent and naked, not in the least ashamed,
but revelling and joyous in her fecundity. And in
the grateful shade of the vast palm-groves, and broad
green plants, and great crimson flowers on either side
the road, girlish mothers, the loveliest flowers of all,

went singing softly to and fro, with pretty little children
planted on their hips, like so many human buds and
blossoms of their own exuberant humanity.

The men," said Lydia, " are queer creatures. Have
you noticed the large umbrella-hats they wear ? Every
man we meet has either an umbrella in his hand, or an
umbrella-hat on his head."

No," I answered. " I haven't noticed the men.
But we seem to have reached a fairy-land of beautiful
women. They are breathing statues ; surely that is
the only phrase for them. Their lithesome figures
have never known a shawl, much more a corset.
They seem to be stepping down like startled wood-nymphs
from dark-green groves in which Pan may
still be piping, if only our dull ears could hear him.
We are walking on enchanted ground, Lydia. "We are
crossing a corner of the long-lost kingdom of love and
beauty that will be all ours by-and-by ; and, as from
some perfect Grecian frieze — the embodiment of the
truest art, the truest love, the truest beauty — these
statuesque and smiling girls are alighting for an instant
to greet you, and to serve, as they flit shyly
through the trees, as your bridesmaids.

But Lydia was silent and tired. The sun grew hot.
There was a fierce glare in the air, and the breeze died
away. Before long, we were compelled to seek the
shelter of the bullock bandy.

This ill-contrived vehicle was nothing more than a
cart, tented over with a huge arched straw covering,
and though Priscilla had lined the bottom of it with
rugs and shawls, we were terribly jolted, and it was
difficult to speak easily.

You are a goose, dear ! " said Lydia at last, in the
merry joyous voice of the day before. " That has not
put me out. I was not in the least disconcerted by
their costume. They are black people, and nobody
thinks twice about black people when they have travelled
as much over India as I have. Some of the
girls were pretty, wonderfully pretty, and very fair for
natives, and to a stranger like you, I daresay rather
startling. No ; I was thinking a great deal of you and
a little of myself, and wondering what we really ought
to do when we come to Mahe."

That problem, however, was very promptly settled
for us.

Our bullock bandy, just when the sultry air and its
own uneasy motion had made us sleepy, gave us a
rude awakening as it went rattling and creaking over
a long, rough wooden bridge, at the end of which a
French sentry, a burly native in the orthodox blue
tunic and broad red trousers, suddenly challenged us.
Had we any arms ? I showed him my gun-case, and
explained that we did not come as invaders, and after
paying a fee of a few small copper coins, he lowered

his bayonet, and we were permitted to enter French
territory.

To the extent of four English square miles — not
more, for that is the total area of Mahe— everything
was essentially French. The Teyer girls, attired exactly
as at Tellicherry, were a trifle prettier and more
coquettish than on the other side the frontier line;
the houses were whiter and smarter than in British
territory ; and all the roads and gardens were exquisitely
neat and trim. Even the native " touts," in their
big umbrella-hats, spoke a rough French patois, as
they importuned us to partake of Cognac or Bordeaux
in the two or three little cafes beside the bridge. But
when the crowd of girls and children began to be embarrassing,
a French cur hurried breathlessly up and
begged us to alight. The little crowd fell back respectfully
at his bidding ; and then he explained that he
had received an extraordinary mandate from the highest
power he knew, and had hastened to the bridge
as soon as Priscilla had told him we were on the way.

Lydia trembled so visibly as she took my arm, that
he said nothing further about his mandate. Like all
priests, he was a man of tact when a lady was concerned.
For a minute or two he talked pleasantly
about the country and the people. Then he invited
us very civilly to rest for a little while in the Governor's
house close by.

The Governor, a grey-haired gentleman, in the uniform
of a lieutenant of the French navy, was waiting,
hat in hand, to receive us. He was supported by a
pleasant little lady, with sympathetic eyes, and the
other three French inhabitants of this miniature settlement.
They were all courteous and cordial, and
brimming over with kindness and good wishes. We
felt their kindness, but scarcely knew what they said,
as they led us through the Governor's quaint old
house, and across a broad garden sheltered from the
sun by great trees. In a natural arbour, formed by
thick interlacing branches overhead, we found refreshments
ready. "We all sat down round a little rustic
table, prettily decorated with fruit and flowers, and
choice glass and rare old silver, and, from the merry
laughter I remember still, we must have been a joyous
party. The arbour stood at the mouth of the Mahe
river. Down below the blue sea washed the base of
the rocks. The farther bank of the river was covered
with palm-trees. The garden itself was filled with the
brightest and richest and most gorgeous tropical plants.
I remember all this ; and I remember how weary and
tired Lydia looked; but I cannot recollect a single
word of our companions' pleasant conversation. At
last Lydia looked so tired and faint that the lady
noticed her paleness, and at a nod from the cur we
all rose, to find behind the great trees in the garden

a procession of children from the nunnery school.
We took our places mechanically. We went slowly
through a little village green, clotted here and therewith
spreading trees. There was, I remember, a great
white water-butt instead of the village pump, just
beside the convent school ; and I remember the groups
of curious spectators as they hid their bright eyes
and smooth round limbs behind the foliage of the
scattered trees. They were wishing us a friendly
God-speed, without caring to intrude on our privacy.
All the fine formal weddings I had chanced to attend
at home flashed suddenly upon me ; all were vulgar
and tawdry and ostentatious as compared with this ;
and this wedding was my own, and everything here
was idyllic and friendly, and though strange, very,
very homely after all ! How pale my bride was, and
how beautiful, and how unlike any other woman in
the world !

Beneath the shade of a huge banian-tree we entered
a tiny white chapel, with a rude image of the Virgin
over the porch. The children streamed into the chapel
before us. The priest followed them ; the others stood
a little way apart. But Lydia, when I shyly tried to
comfort her, was speechless. She could only give me
her hand. Just as I touched it with my lips, the
children began to sing a monotonous but touching
melody, and at this signal the lady with the sympathetic

eyes took Lydia from me, and in another moment
we were both kneeling hand in hand, and trembling
as we knelt, in front of the high altar. Then,
after a long pause, the children burst out into song
again. The cnH laid his hands softly on our heads —
and then we heard the hurrying clatter of a horse's
feet, the sounds of a fierce struggle, and of heavy blows
given and returned, aid a shrill cry of warning from
Priscilla. Booted and spurred, and travel-stained, dishevelled
and wounded, but still calm and self-possessed,
Mr Wylie broke into the church, followed by Priscilla,
and after her her lascar escort, armed with bludgeons.
Mr Wylie strode right up to the altar, and leant upon
its rails.

I forbid the marriage," he cried. " I have ridden
day and night to stop the marriage, and I forbid it ! "

Then, with a terrible look at Lydia and myself, he
sank exhausted on a seat.

You are too late, my son," said the cuH coldly,
and you are an intruder here. This is the house of
prayer, not of strife. I have given them their blessing
in the Pope's name. The Church has joined them,
and no man can put them asunder."

Lydia, with a face like death, had fallen into my
arms when the turmoil began. She raised her head
from my shoulder.

Is it really too late ? " she asked, feebly.

Too late," said the curS, bending over lier. " You
are a Catholic, madam, and you and your husband are
wife and man for evermore ! "

Not for evermore ! " cried Mr Wylie, rousing himself
from his lethargy with a supreme effort. " Not
for an hour if I could only speak ! God, my
brother ! "

Then as the priest went up to silence him, a broad
ugly wound, that disfigured one side of his strong,
clean-shaven face, began to bleed copiously, and he
fell off his seat in a swoon.

The startled children again burst into their low
monotonous chant, and Lydia, dead rather than alive,
went feebly between the priest and myself to the
vestry.

I was warned," he said, " to anticipate some such
interruption. I have done my duty; now it is for
both of you and for all your lives to do yours. I will
dismiss the congregation and return."

I went with the priest to the porch. Then I returned.
Mr "Wylie was still lying on the floor. I lifted him onto
a bench. He opened his eyes listlessly. Then he
saw me. " Time enough for regret," he murmured ;
let me give them time ! That will be the bitterest
punishment ! Two months or three, as I please ! "

There was a malignant look in his pale and almost
lifeless eyes that made me shudder, and before I

reached the vestry door again his voice came to mein
a low faint hiss — " Two months or three, sir ! On
this day two months or this day three months we
meet again I"

Lydia was kneeling quietly beside the vestry table.
She had heard nothing.

The priest followed me into the vestry.

Was there any reason," he asked, gravely, " for
that strange man's wild words ? They were too late.
For better or for worse you are united. But speak tome
as you would speak in the confessional. Was
there any valid reason for them ? "

No ! " cried Lydia, rising hastily. " Xo valid
reason, if that gentleman believes in me. You believe
me. Hector ! I told you, when I told you I loved you,
that we might have to go through painful things. But
there is no reason, valid or otherwise, why I should
not love you now."

So we signed the book the priest gave us, and the
soft touch of her hand on my arm again dissipated all
my doubts.

The future, not the past ! " she whispered. " Trust
me as I trust you ! What does anything matter now,
so long as we have confidence in one another ? "

Her tender words and loving looks thrilled through
me. Lydia was my wife now, the life and soul of me !
After all my weary longings for her she was mine !

I forgot that wretched man who lay bleeding on the
bench. I thought of nothing but the confiding touch
of her little hand on my arm and the wistful love-light
in her eyes. I stooped to kiss her lips in the
porch.

For life and death ! " she said, slowly.

For life and death ! " I replied.

Then we went proudly out, arm in arm and hand in
hand, into the blaze of sunshine that flooded the little
village green.

Oh, the beauty of the Malabar back-waters !

"We voyaged lazily through them in a canoe of the
most primitive type. It was twenty feet long, perhaps,
but certainly not more than fifteen inches broad
or deep. We lay feet to feet, hardly able to stir on
account of the broad palm-leaf covering that only left
a narrow slice of outlook — not more than three or four
inches at most — through which, if we raised ourselves
gently on one elbow, we were able to see something
of the beautiful back-waters. One boatman stood at
the bow, another at the stern, and they poled us along
at the rate of seven or eight miles an hour. The
canoe's motion was deliciously easy. The sultry air
was faint and heavy with rich perfumes from the brilliant
masses of fragrant flowers on land. The water,
when we dropped our hands over the boat's side for a

moment, was warm ; and so we glided on, half sleeping
and half awake, content and languid, and almost
too lazy to take the trouble of looking at the scenery
around us.

These back-waters are peculiar to the south-western
coast of India. Sometimes they run so close to the sea
as to be only separated from it by the sandy beach
thrown up by the surf ; but they wander and meander
in the most fantastic fashion, extending for a hundred,
and sometimes two hundred, miles inland ; and they
are generally navigable. Partly salt-water and partly
fresh, they are formed by the sea as it meets and
turns the numerous rivers flowing down from the
forest uplands.

As we glided along them for days together, without
any care for time, their beauty was incessantly changing.
Now we drifted under overhanging branches on
a stream scarcely broader than the Medway ; now we
were in the middle of a huge inland sea. Lakes,
lagoons, and rivers followed one another in a lonc^
panorama of unexpected loveliness, if we had only
cared to look at it ; and the water, in spite of a gentle
current, was everywhere as calm as a mill-pond.

We passed rafts of teak-wood and bamboos, rosewood,
blackwood, and acacia, floating quietly down to
the sea, with little crews of men and women and children
on them, basking in the sun, or lazily fishing in

VOL. IL K

the water. Sometimes we drifted through swamps of
great water-lilies, white or yellow; sometimes a hungry
alligator — and the water swarmed with alligators —
would follow us for miles together, mechanically snapping
his long jaws whenever Lydia dropped her hand
idly into the stream ; sometimes, not often, we heard
unseen boatmen in the distance answering our boatmen's
songs very melodiously across the water. But
most we loved the utter and complete silence that
often lasted for hours, for in this silence we realised
how thoroughly we were alone.

Priscilla and her escort always went one stage
ahead, so as to have our camp ready for us every
evening.

The country skirting the back-waters was very
fresh and fertile. Rice-fields, brightly, vividly green,
came down everywhere to the water's edge, and were
hemmed in, as the land rose, by palms and seem-trees,
teak-trees, banian and mango and jack trees. But no
matter whether the back-water was broad or narrow,
we always found our camp pitched in some delightful
place, generally at a little distance from the backwater
itself, and just up the mouth of a shallow river,
where the forest began to be really shady. The little
low tents that Priscilla had managed to secure at
Mahe formed a new and very welcome feature in this
strange weird world of ours. When we saw them

from afar we knew that the camp fire was alight, that
our day's journeying was over, and that we could
sleep without awaking till the morning sun summoned
me to take a plunge into the river. It was a
gipsy life, but very, very pleasant while it lasted.

When dinner was over and our attendants had retired,
we used, when we could, to steal through the
woods, or loiter alonfy the river, or rest for a little
while on some great grass-grown boulder on its banks
with the water rippling at our feet. We could seethe
deer as they stole timidly down to the water for
their evening drink, and Lydia always clutched my
arm when they came, for fear that we might frighten
them. But tigers, and bears, and elephants, and panthers
sometimes came too ; and whenever we heard a
stealthy tread on the dead leaves of the silent forest,
we tried to guess which of these beasts were coming.
I pretended to alarm Lydia with my guesses whenever
the woods creaked and rustled, and in reply she used
to pretend to tremble as she clung to me and kissed
me ; and how I loved these furtive tremulous kisses !
Had the fierce animals seen us as they passed by ?
Would they return ? What did I care ? What did
she care ? We were far too happy for anything to
part us now. Lydia held my hands in lies till they
had gone, and, as they went, we whispered all we felt
about our happiness.

One night, as we loitered, hand in hand, just within
the borders of a gloomy teak-forest, full of eerie and
mysterious sounds, the quick, sharp echo from the
black rocks, on the other side of the river, gave me a
mad longing to hear what the rocks and forest could
make of Lydia's clear, sympathetic voice if she sang
to them. I had tormented her all day long about
some foolish verses we had both of us composed in the
morning, line and line about, as we lay in our canoe.
When a lady says ' nay,' she is only in play," — that
used to be a mischievous song of Lydia's long ago, and
I had taken that as the motive of the verses we had to
make together. The words were mine, but the ideas,
so far as I could catch them, were Lydia's laughing
interpretations of my own hidden fancies. I scarcely
thought she would sing them to me now. But, as I
teased her, she quietly put one of her little hands upon
my lips, and allowed me to hold it there while she sang.

Every word in her song was hers, as she sang it,
though she was supposed to be singing it for me : —

Her arms across her eyes she threw,

And all was still ;
I loved her ; she and I were new

To love ; her will

Faltering, unspoken, incomplete,

Sobbed in her sighs,
As I lay longing at her feet

To read her eyes.

"What should I see there ? — Heaven knows !

But I could guess
The light of love that comes and goes

With" no "and "yes."

mystic eyes ! that should unveil

To love alone
The sweet and sad and secret tale

I thought our own,

How clear and dear and frank they were I

And now, how blind !
How eloquent of cold despair,

And how unkind !

At last, in all her doubts and fears,

She looked me through,
"With eyes as full of sudden tears

As mine were, too !

What did the rocks and the forest and the wild
beasts think of Lydia's song, as it went echoing and
re-echoing amongst them ? I know what I thought,
and that was enough for me !

Sometimes, if there happened to be a village near
our tents, we strolled down to it in the twilight, to
tempt the women to come out into the open and barter
anything likely to be useful for that day's dinner or
next morning's breakfast. When she was engaged in
bartering, Lydia made the most wonderful bargains, or
thought so. The Teyer women were as pleased as she
was, and the frank-eyed children and timid girls, who
followed us to our tents, after all this bargaining and

bartering, were delighted beyond measure at the presents
Lydia gave them.

Why shouldn't we make them happy, poor things ? "
Lydia used to answer whenever I scolded her for extravagance.
" Look at the wretched little huts they
live in, and the miserable villages to which they are
tethered, like goats to a cactus bush, and think how
free and comfortable we are. Hector, and how happy ! "

Lydia was always talking about happiness now.-
One day she said, suddenly, " Don't you remember,
Hector, what I said a long time back about women
being the dictionaries in which you men are translated?"


Yes," I retorted, maliciously. " And you said the
translation was not always in heroic verse."

Did I ? I forget. I must have been right if I
did. Still, whatever I may have said then, you and I
seem to translate each other very pleasantly. Everyday
I begin to see new meanings in myself, and everyday
I begin to look for new possibilities in you."

Sometimes," I answered, " I have that very feeling
myself. But sometimes I cannot believe in it. I
seem to be dazzled, dear, and bewildered. You remember
how Hyacinth felt in the story when, in the
Holy of Holies, he lifted Isis' filmy veil, and little
Eoseblossom fell into his arms ? "

Yes," said Lydia, quickly. " I remember that ;

and I remember the Xun saying it was such a
beautiful story that she believed it must be real ! "

Well, when you read that poor man's manuscript
allied to us on the steamer, we liked it because it was
only a story. Now it has all come true. Will it last ?
And what did the old Wizard say, I wonder, when he
heard how the story ended ? "

Hush ! " cried Lydia. " It is wrong and cruel for
anybody very, very happy to talk to anybody very
happy like that. You are worse than Schopenhauer,
dear. You haven't his caustic wit, and you have none
of his excuses. When people love each other as you
and I do, it is very wicked indeed to have foolish
forebodings ! lou are happy, Hector ? You must be
happy too ? Why, you have never once spoken of
your uncle since we left the yacht ! "

This was a cunning little trap for me, and I knew
it, for whenever I owned, as I was sometimes forced
to own, that I was almost too happy, Lydia invariably
punished me by making me tell her all about those
horrible lonely days at Baroda, when I was sulky and
in banishment.

It was a nightmare 1 " I said, as she kissed me, as
she always did now when she teased me — " a long,
hideous nightmare ! A horrible past ! "

And the present ? " she asked. " Is that horrible
too, sir ? "

^0, no ! It is a dream, full of beautiful colours,
strange subdued colours, such as no one ever saw
before, and of exquisite music, faint and low, that no
one before has ever heard. Don't you feel as I do,
dear, that we are both of us living in a dream"

Yes," she said, slowly. " But will our dream last
as long as your nightmare ? "

It will last for ever."

And we both thought so.

CHAPTER Xxxiii.

One afternoon, however, as we drifted slowly down a
silent stream, hedged in on both banks, and covered
overhead too by the thick teak-forest, our canoe shot
out suddenly and unexpectedly into the open sea ; and
in a little bay to the right we saw our own yacht
lying quietly at anchor.

There's the old Tortoise i " cried Lydia, clapping
her hands. " How delightful it will be to have a real
sail upon a real sea, with a big cabin to sleep in
instead of our little low tents, and to be able to walk
about the quarter-deck, arm in arm together, all day
long, instead of having to lie for hours stretched out
at the bottom of a narrow canoe, with a palm-leaf top
to it. Why, the pleasantness part of our honeymoon is
only just beginning. Hector ! "

I could not share Lydia's pleasure. Our strange
life on these beautiful and mysterious back-waters had
been so tranquil, and so lazy, and so inexpressibly
happy, that I was sorry to leave them behind us.

Let US turn back, Lydia," I cried. " You and I
are both very happy now, and I don't see why we
should not live here and die here."

I only wish we could," she answered. " But
sooner or later you would grow tired of solitude, and
you might get tired of me. I am not really selfish,
but I love you too selfishly to like the thought of that.
Love must be selfish, dear. At the best it is an egotism
of two. We love each other now because we cannot
help it, and sometimes I feel dreadfully afraid."

Afraid of what ? "

I scarcely know ; afraid, perhaps, of too much
happiness. We are both so happy that we cannot
guess how unhappy we might be. I know you better
than you know yourself. Solitude may possibly be
all very well for a woman, as that wretched old Sheik
used to say. But a man, however earnest his love, is
always longing to be fighting and working in the
world."

I protested vigorously against Lydia's latest theory.
But she was in earnest this time, and I had, of course,
to give in at last. The Tortoise undoubtedly lay
there, in a little bay to our right, and when Lydia
held out her hand, I had nothing for it but to climb
on board, and then sail on and on, this time very
leisurely, round the palm-girt coast of Southern India.
I missed the careless freedom and independent life of

the back-waters. I spent all my days in painting pictures
and portraits of Lydia ; and how easily, now that
I was really inspired, my work came to me, and how
pleased we both were when the sinking sun threw us
on our own resources and told us that it was time fora
good long talk !

I had fancied that Lydia was fond of art. I was
wrong. For art in the abstract she did not care two
straws. She was only fond of me ; but surely that was
ten thousand times better. She praised my technique
and colouring most considerately. She tried to admire
her own portraits. But I could feel, from the kiss she
always gave me when her " sitting " was over and the
day's task done, that she never gave a second thought
to my pictures of her.

One day she was unkind enough to hint that I was
neglecting her for her shadow. But she did not
always mean what she said ; and when I looked
vexed, she cried, " I was quite right. Hector, when I
said you were longing for work. A man should have
work of some kind."

Work of some kind ! That really was a little hard
on me, when I had painted away all day long, from
sunrise to sunset, whenever I could persuade her to
sit, and when, for the first time in my life, I felt thoroughly
satisfied with my work. Two, perhaps three,
of my sketches were very beautiful, and their beauty

was amply acknowledged later on. They were like
her as she was, and exactly like my ideal of her.
They showed, I fancy, if they showed nothing else,
that the painter loved her and had tried to do his best.
But Lydia knew nothing of her own loveliness ; she
never for a moment guessed how her supple girlish
beauty affected me, or how I longed in my happiness
to make it visible to all the world,

I had been loath to leave the back-waters, and was
quite as sorry to leave the Tortoise. But every now
and then we were obliged to go ashore. The black
Jews at Cochin, for instance, had to be visited. They
drifted here, no one knew how long before the Christian
era, and were, so our skipper told us, a scattered
remnant of the lost ten tribes, of whom my poor old
uncle thought so much.

We tried to land at Cape Comorin. Lydia wanted
to see if the big white building at the extreme point
of the jagged Ghauts — the Land's End of India — was
really a Nestorian monastery ; but the foaming surf,
as it broke with a roar like distant thunder in long
heavy rollers beneath the massive wall of mountain
rock, was absolutely impenetrable.

There was something sublime in the huge treeless
Cape, as the sea tossed and howled and stormed around
it; and those poor monks, if there were any, must
have hated their forlorn whitewashed prison whenever

they watched the bleak desolate freedom of the raging
ocean in front of them.

I should like to have visited the monastery," said
Lydia. " The monks must be very good men, or very
bad men, to live here ; and, at all events, they must
be very lonely."

Then, as we could not possibly land, we started for
Ceylon; and, as we started, the setting sun showed
us, as through a rosy mist, the whitened skeletons of
the hapless ships that lay piled up on the cruel ugly
shoals below the Cape.

An emerald island in a sapphire sea — that was what
Ceylon looked like as we neared the shore. It was
Adam's asylum after Eve betrayed him. It was the
Ophir and Tarshish of the Bible. To Buddha it was
a pearl drop on the brow of Ind." From times immemorial
it has been the Garden of the World, with
the surface of its green valleys covered by great
fragrant trees and gorgeous flowers, and the beds of its
rivers lined with precious stones. To us, as we landed
at Colombo, it was a drowsy and delightful land, in
which everything at first was doubtful and uncertain.

And the people on shore, what were they, men or
women ? To our astonishment they were men. Their
long tresses of black hair were drawn back tightly and
coquettishly from the forehead under a semicircular
tortoiseshell comb, and twisted up behind in thick

massive plaits into huge chignons, fastened by high
tortoiseshell combs. They had smooth, beardless
faces. They were dressed in prettily embroidered
bodices and clinging white petticoats. The few women
we met later on were not nearly so effeminate in
appearance as the men, though the better sort of them
were covered with jewellery. Their hair, unlike the
men's, was twisted into a simple knot, and decked
with flowers, and they were plainly attired in white
muslin. The Burghers, much sturdier people, from
the Dutch blood in their veins, dressed almost in
European fashion, and the Footmen went about in
red and white. The Buddhist priests, of course, wore
yellow robes, cut so as to leave the right shoulder
bare. Their heads were shaven; each carried a fan
and a sunshade, and a begging-bowl ; and as they may
not touch money themselves, they were for the most
part attended by little boys, who bore their purses, and
paid for their railway tickets and their carriage fares.
Traditionally they are beggars ; but the Buddhist temporalities
are enormously wealthy, owning something
like one-fourth of the cultivated land of the island.
We had an early breakfast in the hotel ; and, breakfast
over, we strolled through the row of little
jewellers' shops in the corridor close to. Here we
saw the most marvellous collections of precious stones,
cut and uncut ; but of all the stones, the cat's-eyes

were perhaps the most beautiful. There was something
weird and fascinating in their pale-green beauty
and their one narrow line of dazzling yellow ; but tolet
us see the cat's - eyes properly, the Footmen
jewellers had to pull their blinds down, and darken
their queer little shops.

Then, as the climate of Colombo, even in the early
morning, is moist and almost unbearably sultry, we
took the first train for Kandy. This was less thana
five-hours' journey, but surely no other terrestrial
railway passes through scenery so grand, so strange,
and so luxuriant.

At first we skirted broad lakes and shallow marshes.
We marvelled, as we journeyed, at the double beauty
of the superb tropical vegetation, growing half in the
water and half on land. Then, when the steamy town
of Colombo, its red-roofed houses, its pointed spires,
its fragrant cinnamon gardens, had been left behind,
the railway abruptly rose and left us in a virgin forest
of unimaginable beauty. The great trees were all
joined and garlanded and entwined with gigantic
creepers, and surrounded with brilliant flowers. The
landscape was rich and magnificent beyond conception,
for almost every tree and plant, every flower and
shrub in the world thrives here. Below us, as the
railway rose, we saw gardens of pine-apples and sugarcane,
and yams and sweet - potatoes and bananas ;

patches of green corn ; groves and clumps of cocoa-nut
palms, and lime and mango and jack trees, and broad-leaved
bread-fruit trees, jaggers palms and areca palms,
with their graceful polished stems ; and slender bamboos,
crowned with bunches of feathery leaves. The
sides of the hills were covered with rich mosses and
great ferns and glistening waterfalls. Nature was
hard at work in her own favourite laboratory, and
streaming at every pore. Now, as the train rushed
on, we were in a forest so dense and thick that the
sun could only reach us here and there, and, now and
then, in sudden flashes of long dazzling rays, keen
and bright and brilliant as polished sword-blades.
The tops of the highest trees disappeared in a tangle
of creepers and climbing-plants, alive with monkeys
and parrots, jabbering and screeching at the train as
it passed through. Now the train, winding under
enormous, threatening masses of overhanging rock,
seemed to just skate along the very edge of some
sheer and awful precipice, overlooking rich green
valleys, watered by innumerable rivers. The little
rice-fields on the hillsides below rose like hanging
gardens, one above the other, in tiny terraces. Above
us, where the mountain-side had been cleared, there
were broad plantations of tea and coffee, and cinchona
and cocoa, looking in comparison very thin and bleak
and bare. In the distance the view was lost in a

horizon of wooded mountains and blue summits, half
hidden in the clouds. Sometimes the line ran right
along the hedgerows of croton and bastard sunflowers
and crimson hibiscus that marked the carriage-road
to Kandy.

Huge-domed brick daf:fobas towered above the
forest. Everywhere the village people were bathing
in the tanks and rivers. In front of their gaily
painted temples, and their primitive monasteries of
dried bamboo-leaves, the yellow-robed priests walked
slowly to and fro, rapt in contemplation. Each village
had its gigantic image of Gautama Buddha, with
that look of quiescent beatitude on the calm passionless
face that is for ever teaching his followers the
peace they may perhaps attain in Nirvana, when life's
feverish passions are over.

The engine whistled shrilly. We were almost atour
journey's end. We had reached the Garden of
Paredenia, the loveliest garden in the world. We
alighted here to rest for a while before we walked onto
Kandy. The marvellous scenery along the line
was the best possible preparation for the supreme
beauty we found here. We passed, as we entered, a
long row of india-rubber trees — the Ficus elastica —
each of them, with its enormous trunks, its glossy green
leaves, and its thick serpentine roots, covering something
like a quarter of an acre of ground. Clove, and

VOL. IL s

nutmeg, and camphor, and vanilla trees ; the traveller's
palm of Madagascar, full of ice-cold water when the
parched traveller thrusts his knife into any one of the
green joints ; the silk-cotton tree — a skeleton tree with
its bare limbs spotted by red blossoms; tree-ferns,
rhododendrons, gorgonia, and magnolias ; the palmyra
and the towering talent, and something like two hundred
different sorts of palms ; orchids of every colour
and every kind ; and great jungle-creepers, thick and
strong as a ship's cable, — ^^it was a debauch of vegetation.
The broad beds of tropical flowers were thick
with gaudy insects ; over everything there was the
scent of the champs flower ; the drowsy air was heavy
with pollen. At last we came, at the very end of the
garden, to a clump of giant bamboos from the Philippines.
Their proportions were so exquisitely perfect
that the clump before us looked from a little distance
like a handful of lovely grasses. But their elegant
bright-green stems were fifteen feet in diameter at the
base ; and, eighty or a hundred feet in height, they rose
far above the tallest trees there.

Lydia was tired now, and at last, in the very middle
of these gigantic bamboos, I found a comfortable and
shady seat for her.

This is surely the Garden of Eden," she said.

It is much more like Paradise," I answered, " than
the real Garden of Eden where we met first."

You mean Kurnali," cried Lydia, " where the menin
sheepskin carried me over the mud ? "

"Yes, Kurnah. But how dreadfully you scolded
me there for telling my Armenian sailors to cut down
the Tree of Good and Evil, and take it off to the
steamer ! "

"Yes, I remember," she answered, gravely. "But
we should never have met if I hadn't scolded you then,
and you richly deserved a scolding. It was a sacrilege
at the best ; and I often wonder what your poor old
uncle has done with the tree-trunk. But never mind
the past, dear. What a lovely paradise we are in just
now, and how odd that we should have stumbled across
it directly we got out of our railway carriage ! "

That is just what I was thinking," I replied. " We
seem to have suddenly stepped out of the nineteenth
century altogether. The garden reminds me of a picture
I once saw in a friend's studio in London. I
wonder if it has ever been hung yet, or if he ever
sold it I "

It must have been a very lovely picture," cried
Lydia, " if it reminded you of this ! "

No, no ; it wasn't ! But it made an impression on
me at the time ; and I remember it now, because it
seems to reverse all our feelings exactly."

Do you know what you are saying, Hector ? Do
you want all our feelings to be reversed ? Do you

want me to hate you more bitterly than I can tell
you?"

Nonsense, dear 1 " I retorted, kissing her. " The
picture had nothing to do with love and hate, or you
and me. It was a picture of a pretty English drawing-room,
somewhere, I fancy, in one of the South Sea
Islands. The artist had furnished his drawing-room
with everything that a modern artist's luxuriant fancy
could imagine or desire. But he had left one of the
long plate-glass windows half open, and through this
open window two naked young South Sea Islanders, a
girl and her lover, had just strolled in from the woods
close behind. They stood there, hand in hand, in front
of the big piano, dazzled and bewildered, and trembling
at all they saw. They formed as strange a contrast to
their surroundings as you and I do now. That was
why I spoke of my friend's picture."

Yes, yes ! " cried Lydia. " I can see them as you
talk: and you are right, dear; they represent us
exactly — with everything reversed ! "

We had lived in a long dream ever since leaving
Mahe. We were still dreaming as I spoke. But in
another moment our dream had turned to a nightmare
with a vengeance. The Devil-dancers were upon us.
We were surrounded suddenly by a crowd of mad,
fantastic beings, naked, or almost naked, but with the
masks of hideous and oho-antic demons on their heads.

They seemed to be half head and half body, as,
dancing in a circle around us, they leapt wildly into
the air, yelling and screeching in savage accompaniment
to the horrid noise of the demoniacal musicians
behind them.

Lydia started to her feet, and then fell almost senseless
into my arms. I tried to quiet the infernal
wretches around us; but they danced madly on.

I knew what it would be. Hector," she sobbed,
when you awoke this morning without remembering
that it was just a month to-day since we were married ;
only a month to-day ! I thought you would not have
forgotten our wedding-day so soon, and I felt sure
that something dreadful would happen."

Only a month to-day ! That miserable Mr Wylie
had said " two months or three," not one. In our
happiness I had forgotten his words, and almost forgotten
his very existence. Why did Lydia feel sure
that something dreadful would happen ? Luckily I
thought of throwing our tormentors a few rupees.
They disappeared as suddenly as they came, but their
place was at once taken by a number of English
people, ladies and men, running eagerly up to inquire
after Lydia.

I am sorry the lady was frightened," said one of
the older gentlemen. "We were having a picnic on
the other side of the bamboos, and sent a couple of the

gardeners out for the Devil-dancers. They mistook
you for us. Why, Mrs Fonblanque ! " he cried, excitedly,
" surely that is you ! "

My name is Hicks, sir," said Lydia, coldly.

Then, without listening to his further apologies, she
placed her hand in my arm, and we quitted the
garden.

We should never have left those Malabar backwaters,"
she cried. " There, at all events, we were
alone. The country here is lovely enough, but it is
full of horrible people. Did you ever see anything so
hideous as the men who danced about us ? Let us go
away, Hector, anywhere you like, so long as we leave
Ceylon behind."

It was just one month since our marriage! That
man Wylie had said "two months or three." But
Lydia had never heard what he said. He could have
had nothing to do with her terror now. Why, then,
had she fled from the civil-spoken gentleman who had
accosted her as Mrs Fonblanque? I had plenty of
time to think over all this as the train bore us back
to Colombo.

All manner of awful doubts thrust themselves upon
me, and Lydia's extraordinary conduct next morning
only made matters worse. We had reached the yacht
very late, and had slept on board. But in the morning
Lydia, though still rather tired, was in her usual bright

spirits, and insisted that I should go ashore and see
something more of Colombo before we sailed.

When I returned I found her in a state of great
excitement.

The Xun is married ! " she cried. '' The Xun is
married ! And I am so glad ! "

Who has married her ? " I asked ; " and how could
she be allowed to marry ? "

I don't know. The telegram only says, ' Married
to-day.' "

Lydia had a bundle of letters beside her. I took
them up mechanically.

I thought you had no correspondents left," I said,
sternly. " I thought we were going to cut ourselves
off from all the world ? How did these letters reach
you?"

My Bombay agents forwarded them to their office
here," she replied, " and I sent on shore for them. But
what is the matter, Hector ? "

In moving the letters I had disturbed an enormous
cat's-eye. I recognised it at once. It was the finest
and most expensive of all the fine stones we had seen
the day before.

The extraordinary way in which the news of Sister
Patricia's marriage had reached Lydia quickened all
my apprehensions. She had not, of course, wished to
conceal that cat's-eye from me; indeed, she never

noticed that I saw it; but still there it was. And
how did it come to be there at all? She had said
nothing more of the famous auction that was to have
been held at Colombo ; and for this I was devoutly
thankful. She had, it is true, asked me, from time to
time, for money for our current expenditure. But, as
I paced the quarter-deck very sulkily, I could not
find any possible solution to the mystery about the
cat's-eye.

I was as glad as Lydia when Colombo disappeared.

It is dinner-time, dear," said Lydia at last. " Kiss
and make friends! You look just like a Ceylon
Veddah, and the look doesn't suit you."

Wliat is a Ceylon Veddah ? " I asked, still trying
to be sulky.

A man who never laughs," laughed Lydia. " Stow
you are smiling, and I really don't see why we should
make each other wretched, because we did not happen
to like Ceylon."

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

I HATE doubts and mysteries, Hector," said Lydia,
and, say what you will, there is a shadow of some
kind between us. Men and their wives are generally
supposed to squabble ; so, if you like it, we will live like
other people — only, please tell me what to do."

No, no ; we won't ! " I cried. " We are not like
other people, and we can't afford to quarrel like them.
Other people know all about each other, and have very
likely been children together. We met by chance.
Everything in each of us was new to the other. We
love each other very dearly, and that should be enough
for us."

Yes," said Lydia ; " then roll up the black curtain
that veils your mind. There is nothing in our
past to grieve either of us. I told you that, dear, in
the nunnery garden, and you promised never to speak
of it again."

As she spoke we were turning Aileen Head. There
had been a terrific downfall of rain. The thunderstorm

had passed over us, but the atmosphere was
still charged with electricity. The stars were hidden
by heavy clouds, while the horizon was bright with
incessant flashes of sheet-lightnings, and the sea all
around the steamer was lit up with nebulous streams
of phosphoric fire.

Then she talked of the future. To live out of the
world, to live by ourselves, so that that man Wylie
should never reach us — this was my one thought now.
That was what Lydia, without knowing why, called
my " black curtain " ; and when she suggested that we
should go to Java and stop there, I gladly rolled it up
for good.

We were tired of roaming. "We had sold the yacht
and bought a house — not a red-roofed cottage by a lake,
but a huge old planter's bungalow, on a spur of the
Himalayas, looking straight down into the glorious
country of the Doab, a mile below. We were so far
from the nearest hill-station, that in all our walks and
rides we never met a human being, save now and
then a few Tartar-featured mountaineers.

Here we were almost as much alone as on the
awful day and the awful night we had passed while
in Java on the top of the volcano above Banging.
There we hid ourselves from the howling storm on the
edge of the huge crater. Far down in its depths the

mud-lake broke into great bubbles that burst like
pistol-shots, and in a minute or two afterwards their
faint blue smoke rose up in sickening sulphurous
fumes. "We had travelled over India since then. But
we were as completely alone here in our pleasant
Himalayan retreat as on that remote and unvisited
volcano. But here the scenery was at once lovely and
sublime. Beneath us, with the Ganges and the Jumna
as its boundaries on either side, lay the smiling fertile
Shoon, under an atmosphere so clear and bright that
the gleaming towers of Delhi — more than a hundred
miles away — were sometimes visible. Behind us, far
across the interminable forests of cedar-trees, pine-trees,
and deodars, far beyond dark mountain-ridges
and slopes of eternal snow, far above the seas of
drifting clouds and rolling mists, we could see the
Snowy Eange itself, the mighty Himalayan peaks —
the sources of the two sacred rivers below us, and the
home of the Hindu gods.

The first sight of the Snowy Range is disappointing,
for only a broad belt of the topmost peaks is visible.
But the Snowy Eange grows upon you day by day,
till you recognise not only its pure and immaculate
beauty, but its overwhelming massiveness. Then,
when you have learned to know its glittering peaks
and pinnacles, its towers, its domes, its glaciers, and
its deep shadows, never, on two different days, and

scarcely for two hours together, do they seem
alike.

The sale of the Tortoise had brought us in an unexpectedly
large amount of money, large enough to pay
for our house and its furniture and to leave us with a
good round sum in hand. The money was lavishly
squandered. Not only did the most expensive things
come to us from Calcutta, but things that money could
not buy there, and that must, I felt certain, have been
Lydia's long ago. In the old days Priscilla used to
fill me with a vague distrust. Later on I grew to look
upon her as the repository of Lydia's mystery. Now,
as she opened the huge packing-cases, and seemed to
find a kind of familiar place for all the ornaments and
costly knick-knacks, I began to detest her — I scarcely
knew why ; perhaps because she was the only link between
Lydia and her past. The house, a fine old stone
bungalow, built in the days when planters are richer
than they ever will be again, was far too large for us,
and I hated its fine furniture.

It was about this that we had our first serious
fight.

I was only trying to please you," cried Lydia.
You may live in a barn if you like. At all events, I
shall take no more trouble. I shall order nothing
more. The house shall remain as it is."

Next afternoon, however, found us reconciled again,

and once more sitting close together on our favourite
little grass-plot on the highest point of the Black
Needle Rock. The river, before it ran through the
rich valley of the Shoon, so closely washed the base
of the black cliff, five or six thousand feet below, that
we could have tossed a pebble into it. Behind us, as
we sat, the Snowy Eange shone white and bright, with
its deep black shadows mapped out and illuminated
by myriads of diamond points.

To atone for our quarrel Lydia talked to me as she
had never talked before, except, perhaps, at Goa. But
now she spoke personally and without restraint of all
our happiest moments, and of little intimate thoughts
and feelings I never imagined she recognised at the
time.

sweet philosopher ! " I cried, as she ran on,
you are inspired to-day. Tell me what no philosopher
has ever told us yet ; tell me the world's great
secret — What is love ? "

Love," said Lydia, smiling, " is you and me."

That is enough for me," I answered, " but scarcely
enough for the world and the critics."

Hush, Hector ! That is treason. What have the
critics and the world to do with us ? Stop," she continued,
" love is you and me and eternity. Does that
please you, dear ? "

Please me ! Yes. But why ? "

Because in love, as in birth and death, Hector, we
perhaps touch the boundaries of eternity."

Just then the light from the sinking sun fell full
on the Snowy Eange. Peak after peak, far into its
remote recesses, was lit up with a beautiful pale
pink colour, a living and transparent colour, indescribable
in words, but as quick, as lovely, and as vivid as
the warm glow that may once in a lifetime, and for a
moment only, flash across the half-veiled bosom of
some fair girl just betrothed.

Then a gust of ice-cold wind rushed up from the
valley.

The sun had set. In a moment of time the Snowy
Eange was livid, grey, ashen, desolate, and corpse-like.

Lydia trembled a little. She took my hand very
tenderly as she laid her head on my shoulder, and
wept bitterly. I kissed her hand as it lay in mine,
and then I kissed her lips. But, as I kissed her, she
broke from me with a shriek. There, close behind us,
stood Mr Wylie of Bussorah, with a terrible scowl on
his gloomy forehead, and with one arm outstretched
like the arm of an avenging spirit.

At last ! " he cried, in a deep low voice, that
was almost sacramental in its solemnity. " At last,
after three months' searching, I find you both, weak
and loving as of old. Did you think to cheat me
by hiding in the palm-groves of Ceylon or among

the volcanoes of Java ? Did you, madam, for a
moment "

Hush, sir ! Spare me ! forgive me ! " said Lydia
faintly, pressing her hands across her eyes so as to
shut out the very sight of him, and retreating slowly,
step by step, before his awful glances as she spoke.

Forgive you ! " he cried. " I am not of those who
forgive when their warnings are ignored. I followed
you and dogged you across Asia to give you warning.
Why should I have degraded myself in a miserable
disguise, but to save you from your folly ? You knew
what I meant long ago. The hour has struck for
vengeance."

It has ! " I shouted, seizing him by the throat, as
an extraordinary thought flashed suddenly through my
brain. " Who are you, that you should dare to spy
upon our actions and dog our footsteps ? Who are
you, and what are you ? Sheik, or AVylie, or devil, or
whatever you are, be silent. The lady you speak to
is my wife."

Not your wife," he said slowly ; "not your wife,
but my brother's ! "

I let his throat go, and, sick and faint, I ran
towards Lydia.

Her looks implored me to stop. I stood motionless
between them.

Lydia 1 " 1 cried, " for the love of heaven or the

love of me, say that that dreadful charge of his is a
lie ! Say that you know no brother of his ! "

Hector' she answered, in a low sweet voice that
only came to her in moments of endearment, " I cannot
say that. Of Mr Wylie I know nothing. But the
poor man he speaks about, the man he calls his brother,
had been mad for years, hopelessly, irretrievably mad.
I was his wife once, God help me ! But he and I could
never have met again. I was flying from myself and
him when I met you. Ah, Hector ! you will never
know how I liked you when we met, or how I hated
my liking when I thought it wrong, or how I love you
now ! "

No, madam ! nor how you loved my brother ! nor
how you maddened him with your outbursts of loving
passion, your sudden fits of cold neglect, your wilfulness,
your selfishness, your craze for admiration. Mad !
yes ; and raving of you still in his madness, as you sat
there a moment aojo with another man's arm around
your neck ! Love you, sir ! Yes, as she loved my
brother and other men before his day and since ! Shall
I tell you your wife's story ? "

Stay ! stay ! " cried Lydia, throwing her hands outwith
an imploring gesture.

Too late, madam ! " he answered, sternly. " Too
late ! You bought my brother with your accursed
gold. You loved him, and he was your toy and your

plaything, for you had bought him. But you forgot
that my poor brother, though he had another father
and another name than mine, was almost as a son tome
— a noble lad, with pure brave thoughts and great
gifts and high ambitions. There was nothing he might
not have accomplished if you had only let him be. I
thought to make atonement for my own life by the
care I took of his. You came across him, and he
changed, as day into night, as white into black,
as heaven into hell ! You made him besmirch his
fair name before you maddened him. Then you
never gave hint a second thought. There are others,
other gentlemen, gallant and loyal before they knew

you Shall I begin at the beginning, madam, and

go on to the end ? "

Stop ! " cried Lydia, imperiously. " Stop, sir !
Your brother was a gentleman, whatever else he
was ; and you should be one too. If you talk on, sir,
you will talk of a dead woman 1 "

Her grey eyes, tearless and fearless still, met mine
for a moment very lovingly. Then Lydia threw up
her arms, and, as under some strange mesmeric influence,
she glided towards the edge of the terrible black
precipice. She seemed to be falling slowly over it.
At last the spell was broken. I sprang forward justin
time to save her as she fell. I held her for a
minute to my heart, and then she burst into tears.

VOL. IL T

You would not let me go ? " she whispered, as I
kissed her tears away. " You would not let me go ? "

Never ! " I cried. " Steer in this world or the
next ! You are mine, and I am yours ! And what
does anything else matter to us now ? "

Soothing," she answered, " if you care to keep me.
But you frightened me. Hector, by the scared look in
your eyes, and I thought you might be happier if I
flung myself into the river. . I thought — but I
thought nothing. I was frightened by the scared lookin
your eyes."

Sir ! " she exclaimed, as Mr Wylie again approached
us, " you maligned me so terribly that I almost killed
myself. There was not one word of truth in what you
said, except about my unhappy marriage as a girl. You
were too eager in hounding a happy woman to death
in her happiness. Your brother, poor soul, if he was
your brother, died before ever I met Mr Hicks. I only
heard the news at Goa, Hector, and that was why I
brought the telegram to you in the nunnery garden,
and why the old priest, who had been my tutor and
knew my story, gave us both his blessing. I lied about
that telegram, dear, and how bitterly I have regretted
it ! But the lie I told was a loving lie."

"Dead! my God!" cried Mr Wylie. "Dead!"
Then he buried his face in his hands and disappeared
disappeared for ever — in the mist.

Lydia touched my arm.

I was free before I met you, Hector, though I did
not know it at the time. All the lies I told you about
the loss of my fortune were loving lies. The wretched
money that you used to think a barrier between us is
ours still. We can take it or leave it as we like. I
tried hard. Hector, I swear I did, to tell you the truth
at Goa, but I could not tell it then ; and I loved you
so, that I longed to see if you would love me for
myself."

Then the moon, suddenly breaking out of the clouds,
shone full upon the Snowy Eange. Beautiful, calm,
and supremely pure, the great white Himalayas seemed
an omen of inexpressible happiness.

With all our doubts removed, and with hearts too
full for words, we went slowly and lovingly home
through the still deodar forest.

THE END.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.
