Q)

*J

1 ^obcl.

WANDERER,

AUTHOR OF 'fair DIANA,' 'ACROSS COUNTRY,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON :
SWAN SONNENSCHEIN AND CO
PATERNOSTER SQUARE.

1885.

i;.

CONTENTS OF VOL. I,

^

CHAPTER I.

THE CONSULATE.

PoETiNO was brilliant in the sunlight. The blue sea
was sparkling, the houses glaring so white that it was
positively painful to look at them. The grey olive
trees that dotted the rocky hill sides were too distant
to offer the eye any relief. Great clouds of dust rose
on the road which skirted the harbour. The dust
whirled and twisted into columns ; some tall and thin
others short and wide. Then, for a minute, there
would be a calm, and the wayfarers, hurrying alone
I. 1

U

with the corner of their cloaks thrown across the
shoulder, would remove their hand from the broad felt
hat most affected in Portino. It was a thorough
March day — a day of cold piercing Tramontana.

In a house overlooking the port — a house constructed
to withstand heat rather than cold, with a wide piazza
towards the sea, and a square garden surrounded by a
colonnade behind — was a room which showed that its
inhabitants knew something of the comforts of northern
climes. The red tiled floor was covered with a soft
carpet, and there was a grate in the fireplace. Instead
of the usual little bit of green wood hissing and spluttering
and smoking, there was a goodly glow of Newcastle
coal. The old-fashioned chairs were not set in a formidable
row against the walls, but dotted about the
room, so as to take away as much as possible from its
bareness. There were several tables — some strewn with
books and newspapers ; others with ladies' work, photographic
album, and knick-knacks. Though the place

would not have appeared very attractive to those accustomed
to a good EngKsh home, it formed a pleasing
contrast to the cold stateliness of most Portino drawing-rooms.
The flag which waved over this house was a
sufficient explanation of its comparative comfort, for
her Britannic Majesty's Consul at Portino was the
tenant; and on this windy morning, her Britannic
Majesty's Consul's wife was sitting at the fire, mending
sundry garments and talking to her son, a tall young

man, who was idly looking out of the window at the
white sails dotted about the entrance to the harbour,
struggling to beat in against the strong wind front the
mountains.

Teresina says it was a very good ball last night,'
remarked the lady, scarcely glancing up from her
work.

She was a woman of what is termed middle age, wearing
her grey hair in two large, stiff curls on each side
of her clever and still smooth face. She was clad in a

1—2

substantial dark woollen gown, cut after the fashion of
twenty years ago.

Yes, I suppose it was,' assented her son, without
turning his head.

You enjoyed it, at all events, Konald,' remarked
Mrs. Lascelles rather sharply.

Something in his mother's tone made the youth look
round.

Why should I have enjoyed it so particularly ?'
Mrs. Lascelles put her work down for a moment.

Teresina says you danced the whole evening with
Miss Edith Woodall, so I suppose you liked it. Young
men generally enjoy a ball if they are able to dance as
much as they wish with the girl they prefer.'

She is very nice,' said Konald quietly.

Yery. I quite agree with you, my dear boy,' answered
Mrs. Lascelles. ' And she will be very well off, I should
think.'

I suppose so,' replied her son indifferently.

She will spend the evening here to-morrow continued
Mrs. Lascelles. ' Teresina is going to have a few
of her friends, and I have told her to ask Edith Woodland
her brother. Of course you will stop at home,
Donald.'

Why not ? There is nothing to do anywhere else.'

You do not seem to care much,' Mrs. Lascelles went
on.

Oh yes, I do !' replied the young man. * Teresina's
evenings are pleasant enough, and there is no special
temptation in Portino to take me away.'

You find it dull here, Ronald ?' asked his matter.'

Beastly 1' was the emphatic reply.

Well, much as I like having you here, dear boy, I
should be glad if you could find something better
than Somerset House to take you away.'

There is not much chance of that,' answered Ronald.

I do not know. There might be, if you tried.'

You know that I have tried, mother, for ever so

long said Konald wearily, as lie quitted the window
and stretched himself out in his father's vacant armchair.


I know, I know !' exclaimed Mrs. Lascelles hastily,
not wishing to dwell on the time and money her son
had spent in England, employed on uncongenial,
ill-paid work. ' But possibly, now, something might
be arranged.'

Why now, particularly V asked he, waking up, and
at last appearing to take some interest in what his
mother was saying. .

Surely you can guess, Ronald V

Mrs. Lascelles put down her work on her knees, and
looked at her son sharply.

'I cannot, dear mother,' he replied, coming over
and sitting down on a low stool by her side. ' Tell me
all about it. Has my father heard of anything
suitable ?'

No,' answered she, gently placing her hand on the

youth's curly head. 'But there are other channels
besides your father's influence, which, by-the-by,' she
added with a sigh, ' I am afraid we have always rather
overrated.'

Have yoii heard of anything, mother ?'
Well, I have heard, and I have not. That is to
say, the matter is quite in your hands.'

What do you mean ? Please tell me, and explain
the riddle 1' exclaimed Konald.

'My dear boy, surely you like Edith Woodall, do
you not ?'

What on earth has Edith Woodall got to do with it V
Everything,' said Mrs. Lascelles. ' \ ou are fond of
her, and I am sure she cannot help liking you,'
stroking his hair fondly. ' Well, Mr. Woodall makes
no secret of his intentions. If his daughter marries
some one of whom he approves, she will have ten
thousand pounds settled on her, and her husband will
get a share in the bank.'

Oh !' exclaimed Konald.

Yes ; and what is more, as Mr. Woodall is very anxious
to return to England, the lucky young man whom
Edith accepts will soon have charge of the whole
Italian business. It's a splendid opening, Ronald.'

It would mean living: at Portino all one's life,' said
the young man, not very joyfully.

'Well, not all one's life, exactly,' answered his
mother. ' And think of the joy it would be for your
father and me to have you settled happily and comfortably
near us !'

You are in a great hurry, mother !' laughed Ronald.
In the first place, perhaps Miss Woodall would not
have me.'

There is not much doubt about that,' replied Mrs.
Lascelles, looking proudly at her son. Indeed, though
of course she was prejudiced in his favour, there were
few young men in Portino, whether EngKsh or Italian,
whose appearance was as prepossessing as his. Tall,

well-grown, with clear complexion, bronzed by outdoor
pursuits, a soft chestnut beard, and gentle brown
eyes, whose lazy, kind glances could not possibly be
consistent with anything but pleasant manners and a
good heart, Ronald was a son of whom any mother
had a right to be proud.

AVell,' continued he, ' secondly, Mr. Woodall might
refuse his consent. In fact, I'm sure he would not
allow it. I have nothing in the world '

Your father gives you an allowance,' interrupted
Mrs. Lascelles. ' He would certainly continue it gladly,
if you were to make so excellent a match.'

My poor father has always done his best for me ;
more, far more than I deserved,' answered Ronald
rather sadly. ' But that allowance might, you know,
cease any day. He might no longer be able to afford
it. Teresina will soon want a trousseau and a dot, and

she may not be as lucky as Clara ; or ' Ronald

was going to add that his father was getting old, and

might be obliged to resign before he was entitled to a
full pension. But he stopped in time.

Do not worry yourself about all that, Ronald. Your
father will endeavour to arrange these matters with
Mr. Woodall. You know they are very old friends,
and in early days, before this great revolution, and
before we thought of United Italy, and when there were
often disturbances and so on, the bank was not so prosperous
as it is now, and your father had many opportunities
of serving Mr. Woodall.'

Very well ; we will suppose that the father consents,
and behaves like a fairy godmother,' said
Eonald. 'There is one other objection.'

'What, my dear boy?' asked Mrs. Lascelles
anxiously.

I do not know whether / shall consent,' replied
he.

'Nonsense, Ronald! Wh}^ you like her! You
ought to be delighted to have the chance.'

Oh yes ; I like her — of course I like her. But
there's a difference between liking a girl and wanting
to marry her.'

You mean that you are not in love with her ? I
would never wish you to marry a girl you could not
love. But she is so nice, so thoroughly good, so
clever and so attractive, that I feel sure you will be
over head and ears in love with her long before the
wedding-day.'

The young man laughed.

She is not pretty,' he remarked.

Not exactly what is termed pretty, I agree with
you,' said his mother. 'But she has beautiful eyes
and a charming figure.'

Yes,' assented Ronald. ' But she's got an awful big
mouth and a very long nose.'

Mrs. Lascelles looked almost severe.

My dear boy,' she observed sententiously, ' you
can't get perfection. You are seven-and-twenty, and

you have been about the world a good deal for your
age. Have you ever seen an absolutely beautiful girl
with ten thousand pounds and a share in a good bank,
and lots more money to come by-and-by ?'
Yes answered Ronald ; ' and more, too.'
Oh ! Then you have been luckier than most
people. I do not remember many beautiful heiresses.
But, among those you have seen, is there one that
would have married you ?'

Perhaps,' replied the young man, rather fatuously,
if I had asked.'
And would you have got the fortune as well ?'
Probably not, mother answered Ronald. ' I was,
and am decidedly, a detrimental. There was Miss
Caulfield, whom I met two years ago at Scarborough.
She was very good-looking and awfully jolly. We goton
capitally together, and I had just made up my
mind to propose at the first opportunity. But then
old Caulfield came from Bradford, or some dirty place

like it, where he makes worsted, and he found out all
about me, and they went away at once — I don't know
where to.'

Any more ?' asked Mrs. Lascelles, rather amused
at the recital of her son's bonnes fortunes — or the
reverse.

Well, there was that glorious American girl last
season. I was on Manchester's drag at Ascot, and he
introduced me to her. She was very fetching — really
beautiful, and as clever as anyone I ever met. She
had read everything, and went everywhere, and
dressed wonderfully well. And she did not talk
through her nose a bit. They say she had half a
silver mine and a whole oil-pit somewhere.'

What happened, dear ?' inquired the mother.

Nothing happened. That was just it. I was
dreadfully spooney on her, and took her about to
museums and shows,, and all sorts of places, which
those American girls think quite proper. I suppose

her mother thought that, as I was in Manchester's
set, I must be a relation to an earl, or something of
that sort. One day I told the girl all about myself,
and all of us, and the next day at Lords' the mother
cut me dead.'

What has become of her ?' asked Mrs. Las-celles.


She has been travelling about, I believe. Anyhow,
she is intended for a viscount at least. Mrs. Jonson
wants to get into Society with a big S. So I was not
in it.'

In what ?' asked Mrs. Lascelles innocently.

Oh, in the race for Miss Alma Jonson !'

Then, after all, it is not so easy to fid a nice girl —
mind, I mean a ilwrov/jUhj good, clever, and amiable
girl — with money : is it, Ronald ?'

N — no,' replied the young man.

Then you will try your luck with Edith X Mrs.
Lascelles went on.

Not yet, mother. I must think it over.'

By all means, my boy,' answered she. ' God forbid
that I should wish you to do anything hasty, or that
you should marry some one whom you could not love
dearly !'

She stooped down and kissed her son on his forehead
and lips. Ronald rose, and saying, ' Good-bye,
mother — I shall go out and see if I can get an hour's
walk without being blown off my feet,' left the
room.

He turned out of the bright dusty Via Marina, where
the hio^h wind made the walking inconvenient and
reflection impossible, to ascend one of the narrow and
comparatively sheltered little streets of the old town.
Habit made it easy and almost mechanical for him to
avoid the strings of loaded mules, to pass unheeded the
noisy old women at their tiny stalls, to wave aside importunate
beggars, and to thread without any collisions
the small crowds of men who, every here and there.

were quarrelling violently, and appeared to be on the
verge of a murderous fight. Three months ago he
could not have ascended the steep hill so quickly. He
had not then learnt to view the street disputes with
indifference. When fresh from London, he used to fear
that at any moment knives would be drawn and fearful
wounds inflicted. He had now become accustomed to
the melancholy tale of misery which every successive
besfofar unfolded — and in Portino more than half the
population seemed to be beggars. Their lamentations
produced no greater impression on his mind than the
babbling of a brook. Perhaps this morning his gestures
of refusal were more impatient than usual, for even the
babbling of a brook may irritate, if the nerves are in a
high state of tension and the mind is pre-occupied.
As he ascended, the street became less crowded. There
were many corners absolutely deserted, for round them
the Tramontana whistled and howled and picked up
the dust, and the fragments of decayed vegetables, and

bits of paper, and flung them about wildly. Soon
Ronald reached the place he had fixed on to spend a
quiet hour. It was a sunny terrace much frequented
by the Portinesi on mild afternoons, but now, on this
stormy morning, quite deserted. The great block of
the Palazzo Alfieri, with its wide-stretching colonnades
and its numerous offices, sheltered the long narrow
garden on the north side and cut off the cruel wind.
A small grove of orange trees, where the band played
in the summer evenings, closed the one opening through
which the Tramontana might have crept in and swept
the garden. It was high up above the narrow streets,
and from its parapet you looked over the terraced
roofs of the town, and the courtyards of the Palazzo,
right down to the blue waters of the harbour. One
glance along the gravel walk told Ronald that there
was no one here to disturb his thoughts.

They were not as entirely pleasant as might be
supposed. When a young man hears that he has the

VOL. I. 2

chance of winning an attractive girl, whose hand will
not only bestow on him domestic happiness, but also a
comfortable fortune and a good position, he ought to
look more cheerful than did Konald on this March morning.
He was not, just now, disposed to be particularly
cheerful, for his mind dwelt on the past rather than
the future, and the retrospect was not entirely satisfactory.


EARLY TROUBLES.

Mr. Lascelles had been British Consul at Portino for
many years, after having served in the Colonial office
and as Vice-consul at various Italian towns. His
private means were small, and living on his official
income, he spent what he could spare in educating kis
children in England. Ronald was first sent to an
excellent private school, and then to Axminster, which
is neither as expensive nor as fashionable as Eton or
Harrow, but at the time of our story, was known for
its high tone, the thoroughness of the instruction
conveyed, and the admirable discipline enforced by
its head master. Winning an entrance scholarship,

2—2

Konald proceeded to Cambridge, where the early
successes he. obtained gladdened the heart of his
parents, and encouraged the most sanguine hopes for
his future career. But though Ronald worked hard
at times, he was not, at that period, capable of any-long
sustained effort. He could stick to his books,
attend lectures, and read with his private tutor, for a
whole term, never indulging in any relaxation except
what was necessary for his health. But then he
would consign all books and all work to entire
oblivion, and extend his holiday far beyond the
vacation, until the day approached when 'term
divides,' and even until he could count the hours to
the next examination. Then there would be a violent
reaction, and once more he would rise with the sun,
make notes, solve problems, commit to memory
unceasingly, endeavour to compress into four
weeks the work of as many months. The result maybe
guessed. He passed in mathematical honours, but

he failed to gain a higher place than that of twenty-sixth
wrangler. Several men in his own college,
whose abilities were inferior to his own, obtained,
by their perseverance, prior claims to the fellowship
he had hoped for. Ronald had desired to go to the
Bar, but his father's means Avould, as he well knew,
not suffice to keep him till briefs came. The fellowship
was to help over the interval — and the fellowship
escaped him. To what should he now turn ? It was
imperative to do something and to earn his living.
The Indian Civil Service was suggested. But Mrs.
Lascelles objected to her only son going into exile.for
the best years of his life, and Ronald was quite willing
to obey his mother's wishes. He had no special wish
to leave Europe for an indefinite time, and no ambition
to dispense justice to natives in some remote district,
where he would be forgotten by all except his nearest
relatives. Mr. Lascelles exerted his influence to obtain
for his son some Government appointment. An

attacMshi]), leading possibly to the higher posts of
diplomatic service, was closed to Eonald, because, even
more than the beginnings of a liberal profession, such
a post required an ample private income. Wherefore,
after an interval of idleness which Ronald spent, like
many other young men, in London, without doing any
special mischief, but also without doing himself or
anyone else any good, he presented himself as a
candidate for Somerset House. The examination was,
as he termed it somewhat conceitedly, a mere 'exercise
canter.' If his school and university training had
done nothing else, it had, at any rate, accustomed him
to the ' mill ' of cramming up for almost any public
trial which might be required of him. So the nomination
was speedily confirmed, and the invalid nobleman
to whose influence it was due, wrote a courteous
letter to Mr. Lascelles, congratulating him on his son's
brilliant success. The British Consul was often able •
to serve even influential persons who came to Portino

for their health. When Italy was still split up into a
number of small states, the simmering elements
of revolution, which burst out into occasional revolts
so many times before they culminated in the great
war of 1859, kept the various little monarchies in a
constant condition of fidgety unrest. Police regulations
were tyrannical and inquisitorial ; strangers, even
wealthy strangers, were often driven to the verge of
despair by petty vexations and tedious delays. Mr.
Lascelles did what he could to grease the wheels.
Though a man of no very distinguished ability, his
unfailing good temper and tact enabled him to 'keep
on good terms with the various officials, whatever
might be the changes in the 'personnel of the administration.
And he was always ready to soothe an angry
traveller, to help him over his difficulties, to make his
stay agreeable, and to facilitate his departure. Mr.
Lascelles, therefore, had many friends, and it was one
of these who obtained a nomination for Ronald.

One hundred pounds a year is not very much, even
when translated into Italian currency. But when it
represents the total income of a young gentleman
whose ideas of life were formed at Axminster and
Cambridge, it is very little indeed. Ronald was not a
spendthrift, but he had not learnt to economize. Introduced
to many pleasant families by his father's
letters, he soon became one of the regular men about
town in a set only a little less expensive than the most
fashionable. He was good-looking and pleasant ; he
danced well and was willing to make himself useful.
Hence, though his circumstances were pretty well.
known, he was asked out everywhere.

Mr. Lascelles was quite aware that his son could not
make his salary suffice for his wants, and therefore
supplemented it by as much as he could afford —
another hundred and fifty. On this Ronald had to
manage as best he could. He knew his father's position,
and was well aware that getting into debt meant

a curtailment of comforts for his parents, and of
amusements for his sister ; and he honestly strove to
make both ends meet. Before the first year of his
employment in Somerset House was at an end, he
began to have his gloves cleaned, for at that period it
was still considered necessary for young men to wear
gloves at theatres and evening parties. In August,
when people went out of town and the senior clerks
were taking their holidays, he climbed up to the roof
of an omnibus for the first time in his London life. It
cost him a struggle, but Somerset House was a long
way from his bright little apartments near Kensington
Gardens, and it was better to sit on an omnibus than
to walk both ways. He was pleased to find that no
one had noticed him, and attributed the circumstance
to the absence of most of his fashionable friends. But
the habit, once acquired, was comparatively easy to
keep up, and Ronald was much gratified to find what
a material saving in his budget was effected by the

complete suppression of hansom cabs. The next step,
consequent on a formidable bill from his tailor, was to
substitute dark trousers for the light and ephemeral
garments he had hitherto worn. Metaphorically, he
kept continually patting himself on the back for these
sacrifices, and they appeared to him sufficiently great
and noble to warrant a continuance of the daily flower
in his button-hole.

Fortunately for a young man of Ronald's easy disposition,
he had an innate aversion to anything low,
nasty, and ugly. Probably his early years under the
bright skies of Italy, certainly the loftiness of his
mother's character, had had their share in imbuing
him with aspirations which were thoroughly honest, if
not ambitious ; With thoughts which were pure, if they
were not noble ; and manners gentle and graceful,
even if occasionally negligent. Thus he avoided the
meaner vices into which young men, left to their own
resources in London, are so likely to fall. He refused

to share in those frequent 'nips' and 'pegs' which,
then as now, were the curse of the young generation.
He refused not only out of regard for his pocket and
his health, but also because he detested alcohol.
Therefore there was no special credit due to him for
his temperance. As to the flirtations with barmaid
and other ladies of humble extraction and doubtful ^'s,
which occupied a good many spare hours of his fellow-clerks'
time, these had no attractions for Konald. He
often told his friends, laughingly, that Nature had
denied him the great gift of making himself agreeable
to barmaid.

You should practise, old man. You'll get on all
right by-and-by,' was the answer ; but Konald did not
wish to practise. The conversation of these young
ladies appeared to him to be entirely devoid of the
charm which he, perhaps foolishly and vainly, sought
for in all women. He could never become accustomed
to their style of chaff, nor did he see the points of the

repartees which would often convulse everyone present
with laughter.

Konald felt that if these were t^^pes of the fair
sex, he must needs become a misogynist. But he had
access to so many houses, and was so kindly received
by so many ladies of all ages, that he had no occasion
to compete for the smiles of barmaid or ballet-girls.
Though distinctly a detrimental, he was made welcome
; for, notwithstanding the assertions of novelists
and writers in society papers, there are many families
where a gentlemanly young man of good manners is
graciously and kindly received, even if he be neither a
millionaire nor the heir to a title.

Ronald's conversation with his mother was a somewhat
cynical summary of two slight and scarcely
serious attempts he had made to ' settle in life.' Sensitive
as he was to ridicule, he was always the first to
laugh at himself, and thus take the sting out of a
laugh against him. But Mrs. Lascelles was not at all

inclined to laugh at her son's account of his misadventures,
nor to agree with him in his own low estimate of
his matrimonial chances. It is said that no man is a
hero to his valet, but it may be stated with greater
truth that every young man is a- hero to his mother.
Mrs. Lascelles believed implicitly in her son's abilities,
which were no doubt excellent, if not brilliant. She
thought his looks and manners irresistible, while they
were only pleasing. She had absolute faith in his
industry, and attributed his ill-success to every cause
but the right one — his want of perseverance. But she
was a shrewd woman, and was not blind to the dangers
which beset a young man of Ronald's easy temper.
The more fascinating he was, the more likely was hein
her opinion, to fascinate or be fascinated by a
person quite unfit to become his wife.

Mrs. Lascelles had a mortal terror of 'entanglements.'
She had spent so many years of her life in
Italy, had heard so much scandal, and seen so much

wretchedness without scandal, caused by ill-assorted
marriages and irregular attachments, that she was ina
constant state of anxiety lest her son should, somehow,
fall a prey to an undesirable person, or become
fettered by chains not sanctioned by the Church and
society. Looking at him as she did through beautifying
spectacles, she had a sort of indistinct idea that
every other woman must also consider her son the
handsomest, cleverest, and most attractive of young
men. Put into words, she would, of course, have
repudiated the suggestion ; yet an idea of the sort
was undoubtedly at the bottom of her fears and
anxieties.

During the first two years Ronald resolutely stuck
to the office on every working day from very few
minutes after ten till the stroke of four, and, as bank-holidays
were not then invented, he found the continuous
attendance irksome enough, though it could
scarcely be termed hard work by any except his

mother and sisters. But when the third year of
Somerset House drudgery opened, and the very
welcome and Liberal rise of twenty pounds in salary
came as a matter of course, his patience began to give
out. Ronald yearned to get away from London, from
the unceasing noise of the traffic, from the dirty
crowds, from the black dust and anaesthetic slums he
passed through daily. Possibly his growing desire for
freedom might have brought his Civil Service career to
a premature end if great news from Portino had not
reconciled him to his desk for a few months longer.
His elder sister, Clara, only two years younger than
himself, had charmed an English stockbroker who was
spending a winter in Italy, seeing sights and collecting
pictures, after ten years of unceasing work in Capet
Court. Mr. Stent, wrote his father, was in every
respect unexceptionable. Inquiries made through
their old friends, Woodall and Co., Bankers, satisfied
Mr. Lascelles that his daughter's suitor had, as he

termed it in his consular language, ' a perfectly clean
bill of health.' His standing in the City was unimpeachable,
and no one had ever whispered a word
against his character. Mr. Stent was about six-and-thirty
years of age, and, as Mrs. Lascelles was careful
to tell her son, he looked thoroughly like a gentleman,
though he was not exactly handsome. He was very
good to Clara, and did not ask for sixpence with her.
So everyone was satisfied, and Ronald was informed
that, as the wedding would take place early in May,
he must be sure to obtain at least three weeks' leave
about that time. Mr. Stent would shortly return to
London to take a house and make final arrangements ;
no doubt he would call on Ronald, and the young man
was instructed to be as friendly as possible to his
future brother-in-law.

Not long after Ronald had despatched congratulatory
letters to every member of his family, he
received a neat, square envelope, directed in a commercial

round hand. The note it contained was signed
George Stent,' land was exactly the sort of note a man
should write to another some years his junior, whose
sister he is about to marry. There was in it no
assumption of premature familiarity ; no friendliness
which might appear excessive before the two had met.
It began as it ought to begin, 'Dear Mr. Lascelles.' It
went on as follows : ' No doubt you have heard from
Portino that your good and charming sister has
promised to become my wife. I should be extremely
glad to have an early opportunity of making the
acquaintance of one with whom I shall soon bfe so
nearly connected, particularly as your most estimable
father and your dear mother speak of you with a price
which is, no doubt, entirely justified. I should do
myself the honour of calling on you at your office, but
pressure of work prevents my ever leaving the City
during the day. To avoid postponing the pleasure of
seeing you, I take the liberty of asking you to honour

VOL. I. 3

me by your company at dinner on Tuesday next, at
the Franchise Crib, at half-past seven.'

Although this letter was unexceptionable in every
respect, there was something in it which grated on
Ronald's nerves.

D n the fellow's cheek !' he exclaimed aloud ;

'fancy daring to call the dear old governor 'estimable."
'

Then he read the note again, and liked it still less.
Mr. Stent was evidently kind enough to patronize
him. His father and mother had, as usual, praised
him far more than he deserved, and so this man talked
of their pride in him as 'being, no doubt, entirely
justified.'

He handed the letter to St. Clair, his most intimate
friend, with whom he ' chummed,^ and whose room he
shared at Somerset House.

St. Clair said :

Well, it's all right. You'll go, of course. No doubt

you'll get a thundering good dinner. My brother-in-law
treated me like a king before he was married, and
when he comes up to town now he still behaves like a
brick, just as if Dora might turn him off at a week's
notice if he dared to be unkind to her little brother

"When Ronald pointed out the offensive expressions,
his friend pooh-poohed him.

Nonsense,' he cried. ' This man's something in the
City. These fellows have more to do than we have,
and can't spend hours spelling over a letter. He just
wrote what came into his head. Don't go splitting
hairs, old chap.'

So Ronald accepted the invitation, though by no
means convinced, and wrote as briefly as he could
consistently with good manners*

3—2

THE Sent CLAN,

Mr. George Stent was a man of most unattractive
appearance. So, at any rate, thought Ronald.
His future brother-in-law looked older than his years.
His face was long and yellowish, his nose was obtrusive,
his mouth large, and his dark hair sparse. He
wore whiskers only, according to the fashion of reputable
City men twenty years ago. His grey eyes were
large, but not quite pleasant. There was a fishy
stare about them which at first rather disconcerted
observant strangers.

During the first half-hour Ronald wondered a

dozen times how his sister Clara could have accepted
such a very unprepossessing person. For Clara was
pretty and accomplished, had a charming little figure
of her own, and had been courted and made much of
by every man in Portino, whether English or Italian,
ever since she had been sixteen. But by the time the
enirie was removed (the dinner was a tête-à-tête)
Ronald began to soften, and before the dessert was
placed on the table he caught himself thinking that
George Stent was rather a good fellow after all. For
the stockbroker had spoken pleasantly of Mr. and
Mrs. Lascelles, and enthusiastically of his betrothed,
without boring his guest by dwelling too long on his
affection for her. He seemed to take a kindly
interest in everything and all that concerned the
family, and even talked of the English cricket club at
Portino, and its prospects, as if he knew all about the
place. Then by an easy transition he turned to
pictures, and listened to Ronald's views on Italian art

from cinque cento to the present time — with
apparent deference and attention.

Ronald was agreeably disappointed, and reproached
himself with having judged too hastily. This fellow
was certainly ugly, but he was cultivated and good
natured. He must be what is termed a good ' all-round
man.' Sententious perhaps, and with manners
of which the extreme courtesy bordered on formality.
But though Eonald himself generally erred on the
other side, he always much admired the old style, and
was ready to be pleased by a person who never for a
moment appeared to forget what was due to a gentleman
dining with him.

After dinner Mr. Stent's younger brother appeared
with a friend of his, and the party became more intimate
and merrier. As the eldest among them, and
the host, George never entirely forgot his courtliness
nor his gravity, but he unbent, smiled kindly at the
stories told, condescended to tell a few little artistic

anecdotes himself, and delicately closed the entertainment
long before the 3'oung men had ceased to be
amused.

The progress of the engagement was as smooth as
its beginning had been auspicious. Mr. Stent was
lavish in valuable presents to his bride and tasteful
gifts to every member of her family, and even to her
school friends. He dashed off to Italy, not so easily
reached from London as it is now, at the cost of five
days and nights' travelling, merely to spend a few
hours at Portino. He occasionally asked Ronald to
dinner, frequently consulted him about future arrangements,
and even carried him off to Hancock's to help
him in the choice of jewellery. In short, everything
was exactly as it should be. The only trouble was
that political events at that time made it impossible
for Mr. Lascelles to leave his post. Stent had been
anxious that the whole family should come to England
for two or three months, and that the wedding

should take place in London. But this proved impossible.
The war with Austria was over, but matters
where still very unsettled, and the whole of Italy was
disturbed. It was not a proper time for a family to
travel, and it was not a time at Which the English interests
at Portino could be intrusted to a young and
inexperienced Vice-Consul. So, in May, the wedding
took place at the Consulate, the bridegroom's family
being represented by his two brothers only.

Ronald spent a very pleasant holiday, and renewed
his acquaintance with the friends of his boyhood, now
grown up to be young men and young ladies. For
three weeks the quiet Consulate was lively with preparations
for the great event, with the great event
itself, and with festivities hastily got up to console
Clara's friends for her departure. There were numerous
little ' dancing teas,' though the season was far
advanced. There was a two-days' picnic to the Certes.
There were sailing trips on the quiet blue

waters of the Mediterranean. There was a cricket-match
between the rival clubs of Portino and corporeal,
in which Ronald, the champion Portino
bowler, took seven of his opponents' wickets for
twenty runs, to his own glory and his friends' satisfaction.
In fact, they had a good time all round.
Even Mrs. Lascelles joined in the fun and, in the prospects
of the future, forgot the sorrow which a mother
must always feel when parting with her daughter.

Mrs. Lascelles loved her daughter as a matter of
course, but her heart was not wrapped up in Clara.
Of her three children, Ronald had always been the
one who monopolized her affection. Even while her
head and hands were busy for Clara, her heart went
out to her son, whose welfare and interests were
supreme with her. She even went so far as to speak
to George Stent about his future, and to hint very
delicately that possibly the wealthy stockbroker might
do something for him ' some day. Her gentle insinuations

were received with the deferential courtesy
Mr. Stent always displayed to hia future mother-ins
law, and even before the honeymoon was over Mrs.
Lascelles had a convincing proof that they had fallen
on fertile soil.

For the City man made a proposal which showed
extraordinary affection for his Avise and for his wife's
relations. He Avrote to suggest that as long as Ronald
could not find anything better than the Revenue
Office he should take up his quarters with them, where
he could have two comfortable rooms in their new
house, a large and commodious one, near Hyde Park.
Of course he should be quite his own master ; but it
Avould be a positive boon to Clara to have her brother
living with her. He, Stent, was much engaged in
the City, and could seldom return home before seven.
At first Clara would find it very dull if she were
quite alone. Now Ronald's office hours being much
shorter, he would be able to take his sister out

occasionally, join her afternoon tea, and keep her from
moping by home associations. Mr. Stent added that
in such a house as his the presence of an additional
member of the family would make no appreciable
difference, therefore, of course, Ronald would be saved
the entire expense of his present lodgings.

This offer was made after Ronald had returned to
London, but Mr. Stent sent it to Mr. Lascelles at
Portino, instead of first informing the young man of
his hospitable intentions. Perhaps he had anticipated
that Ronald would receive it with less warmth than
his father and mother. At any rate, it was sent to
Somerset House at once in a very enthusiastic letter
from Mrs. Lascelles, and a scarcely less appreciative
one from the Consul. The offer was most kind and
thoughtful. The plan would save Ronald over a
hundred a year, and in his anxiety that his son should
accept the offer, Mr. Lascelles voluntarily added that
he would reduce the allowance only by forty pounds—

the exact sum Ronald spent in rent. He added that,
of course, both he and Mrs. Lascelles had at once
written to their son-in-law to accept his kindness on
behalf of Ronald. The ground, therefore, was cut
from under his feet.

Ronald did not wish to go to Porchester Terrace, and,
if unfettered, would have declined the invitation at
once and decisively, although he knew that the saving
of even forty pounds a year would be a considerable
relief to his father. He had been entirely free for
several years, had gone out and come home when he
pleased, had not been accountable to anyone for his
hours, or for the disposal of himself and his time, and
he was sure that the change, even to his sister's house,
would prove very irksome.

And he much disliked the idea of leaving his friend,
St. Clair, with whom he had lived on excellent friendly
terms for so long. He had not learnt to love his
brother-in-law, although he would have been at a loss

to give any better reason for not liking him than the
very vague assertion ' that he was a bore.' Therefore,
when Ronald had received his letter, and had thought
the matter over a little, he hoped that St. Clair would
express such a disgust at the proposed arrangement
as to afford him a good excuse for declining it. He was
horribly disgusted when his friend, after reading the
letter which Ronald handed to him, simply remarked :

It is a capital idea ! How very jolly ! Fancy being
saved Mrs. Western's bills, and having better attendance
than those stupid girls who never stop a week
after they have learnt their business !'

'But what will yoii do, old man?' asked Ronald
aghast.

'Oh! I shall get on well enough. Anyhow,' he
added mysteriously, 'probably we should have had
to make a change soon. I shall be devilish glad to
get away from Mrs. Western's. We'll give her notice
to-night.'

Ronald saw his last chance of escape disappear. He
had to give in, and four weeks later was installed at
his sister's, where he had two small, but very well
furnished, rooms allotted to him on the second-floor.
Everything was exactly as it should be, and he cou-ld
find nothings whatever to Stumble at. On the first
-evening, when Clara left the two men over their wine,
Mr. Stent addressed Ronald with his usual solemn
courtesy.

'I hope you will be comfortable, Ronald, and will
liven Clara up. She seems rather dull, poor girl.'

I will do what I can,' said Ronald.
• ' No doubt, no doubt ! But, of course, I can't expect
you to be always at your sister's beck and call. She
does not expect it herself. You will be going to your
club occasionally, and meeting your friends, and in
the winter you Avill be full of invitations again. You
must make yourself at home. So here is a latch-key.
But mind you are careful to put up the chain and

bolt the door when you come in, and doti't make more
noise than you can help.'

Mr. Stent solemnly handed the latch-key over the
table. As Konald grasped it, he added impressively :

And, Ronald, I am to some extent responsible for
you; I hope you will not abuse this key.'

The young man stared, and then laughed.

Abuse it ? Responsible ? I don't see what you
mean. I will be careful to shut the place up, and I
won't admit burglars, if that is Avhat you are driving
at, George.' -

'That is not exactly what I was "driving at," 'as
you term it,' replied Mr. Stent, with a thin smile.
However, I believe it is all right.'

Why the deuce should it not be all right ?
exclaimed Ronald. ' Bless you, I have had a latch-key
for the last ten years.'

I dare say, I dare say,' answered Stent. * But of
course you will have to be more careful in your

sister's house.' He emphasized sister to place Konald
at his ease.

More careful ?' repeated Konald. ' I don't habitually
come home drunk, old man ! I shan't tumble on
the stairs and upset the furniture more than once a
week. And of course Clara knows my ways, and she
won't mind having me kick up a bit of a row between
times. I'll always be in before the milk ; the servants
won't know !'

Ronald !' exclaimed Mr. Stent, seeing that he was
being chaffed, a process he detested.

Don't be frightened, George,' said the young man,
not quite good-naturedly. ' Clara shan't be put out,
nor you either.'

Mr. Stent subsided, not satisfied, but obliged to
look as if he were. Then he went on :

By-the-by, you may smoke in your sitting-room.
I have had double doors fitted, so that none should
come into the rest of the house : only don't smoke on
the stairs, please.'

I won't replied Eonald. ' Thank you for thinking
of my habits.'

Why, yes,' said Stent. ' I only smoke after dinner
myself, but then you have more time. Will you
come into my study, and have a cigar now ?'

The latch-key did not prove dangerous. Konald
saw very little of his brother-in-law. He was off to
the City before nine ; and when Clara found out
that her brother hated the eight o'clock breakfast, she
established one which was not put on the table till
her husband had gone. Then Konald often dined at
his club, and more frequently Clara and George dined
and spent the evening with some member of the
Stent family, which was very numerous and very
clannish. So Konald did not find it as irksome as he
expected, and the winter passed uneventfully, as did
the following season.

It was some eighteen months after Konald had
taken up his residence at Porchester Terrace that a

VOL. I. 4

change came. The birth of a son and heir was
expected, and the house had to be turned upside down.
Mr. Stent seemed to fancy that the arrival of this baby
was an historical event of the utmost importance. To
hear him, one would have supposed that no baby had
ever been born before.

Eonald rejoiced at an excuse for leaving his sister's
"house. There were, said he, too many Tents about.
He could not always shut himself up in his room, nor
could he be uncivil to his brother-in-law's family. But
the people were utterly uncongenial to him, and
certainly unlike any of his own relations and friends
at Portino.

Full of their own affairs, busy with each other's
families, and overflowing with brotherly, sisterly,
and cousinly affection to each other, these good
people seemed to live in a world of their own which
was certainly not the big world, and equally certainly
not Ronald's world.

Anything that fell in with their views and opinions
was right ; everything else was wrong, and even shocking.
If a Stent took up a book and praised it, the
whole clan of Tents were full of admiration for the
work. If a Stent thought little of an artist, that
unfortunate painter was at once put down as an
impostor and a humbug by every member of the
family. It was 'great news,' and all the Stent
carriages were ordered out to impart it to the ladies'
friends, and to enable them to talk it over, if William
Stent took a house in the country for six weeks. If
Frederick R. Stent's wife gave her cook notice, she at
once drove out to tell Mary Stent, and Miss Eliza
Stent, and Mrs. W. Stent. Then they would all meet
at George Stent's house, and discuss the matter at full
length during the whole evening.

When the baby was expected, the whole Stent clan
was in a state of perpetual agitation. Every female
relative thought it necessary to call at least thrice a

4—2

week, and to stop two hours, to keep 'poor Clara's
spirits up.' In such a case it was absolutely necessary,
they said, that the lady should not be dull, nor alone.
The Saturday evening dinners at the house of Stent
senior, where the whole clan assembled, were converted
into a royal court for Clara's benefit. When she drove
up, a gang would rush out to help her into the
morning-room — for, out of deference to her condition,
Mrs. Stent senior had changed the venue from the
first-floor to the ground-floor. There would almost bea
quarrel as to which was the most comfortable seat
for her. Old Mr. Stent would take her in to dinner
(though she was the youngest of his daughters-inlaw)
with an exaggerated show of care, as if she had been a
piece of antique Venetian glass. The whole dinner-table
was excited until a stool had been placed under
her feet.

In the middle of the repast, some over-anxious
member of the family would call out, in a loud voice :

Are you sure that you are quite comfortable, Clara
dear ?' and, ten minutes later, Mrs. Stent (senior) would
interrupt the flow of conversation by the inquiry,
Don't you feel it too hot, Clara ?' and then whisper
significantly to any chance stranger who might,
unfortunately for himself, have been invited to the
Stent family dinner.

The ladies would retire very soon 'so that poor
Clara might not be fatigued,' as they were careful to
say, audibly; and when they reached the drawing-room,
poor Clara, who would have liked to play the
piano or do anything else lively, would be gently
supported up to a bedroom to ' lie down and rest

If Ronald by chance met a Stent in the street,
whether a distant cousin or a brother of George's, he
would at once jump down the young man's throat
with the anxious inquiry : ' How is your dear sister ?
One ought to be very careful, you know.'

The Tents being a very large family, Ronald was

always meeting one or the other, and he began to
think that he had better put a scroll round his hat,
with the words ' My sister is very well, thank you.'

The young men of the Stent clan never ran into
debt ; and the daughters of that ilk never flirted.
There was not room in the old-established firm of
Stent and Cowcroft for all the youths of the name,
but other openings were found for them in the City.
When a young Stent attained the age of ten, he was,
as a matter of course, sent to a certain private school
on the South coast, where Tents had been birched in
old times long past, and where Tents now acquired
all that it was necessary to learn at school. At
seventeen or eighteen, it was considered proper
for a Stent to ' go to the university,' as it was termed
in the family. This did not mean that either Oxford
or Cambridge would be favoured by the matriculation
of so promising an alumnus. Time was too valuable
for a waste of three years at so critical a period of a

young man's life. The founder of the clan had been
one of the early supporters of the London University,
when that institution had been established, and his
descendants were not likely to forget their duties by
deserting the Gower Street College, which is, in the
minds of most persons, always confounded with the
examining and degree-conferring body at Burlington
House. So a year, perhaps two, were profitably spent
in wearing a cap and gown, and attending lectures.
There was great joy in the family if one of its members,
by a fluke, obtained a sixth certificate in junior
mathematics, and on such an occasion, the winner of
Academic honours could not be sufficiently feted, nor
warned earnestly enough not to work too hard.
When this ordeal was over — for no Stent had ever
been known to take a degree — a convenient stool
was found for the youth within two hundred yards of
the Bank of England. At Stent and Cowcroft's, it
was a matter of course that there should be at least

two young men of the family learning the business,
and being educated to become partners ; but their
progress was not confined to their own firm. They
invariably got on in the City. When our George
Stent, Clara's husband, had been three years with a
good financial house, its senior partner had occasion
to remark that the young man had never been late at
the office, except once, when he was in a train which
broke down ; that he had never missed a single
working day ; and that he had never made a mistake
in the quotations of the market. With such regularity
and such industry, no man could fail to get on ;
and very few years later, George Stent and a cousin
were started in business on their own account by the
clan, which furnished the necessary funds as a matter
of course. Stent Brothers — as the new firm was
styled with a view to the future — never opened
speculative accounts ; never bought or sold without
ample margin ; never lent money except on unexceptionable

security ; and would have been stricken with
paralysis, if anyone had suggested that they might
possibly sometimes have a flutter on their own
account. So they made less than many of their
competitors ; but they never lost anything. They
always went on making money, not spending a
quarter of their income, and steadily laying by for a
■ rainy day.

Thus it happened that when George Stent married
Clara, he was a very ' warm ' man, and could well afford
to take her without any dower. It was a strange and
unusual thing for a Stent to marry a penniless girl
and there had been some little surprise expressed in
the camp when the news came. But when the
marriage was once accepted, Clara was welcomed as
warmly as if she had had millions ; and they were all
so pleased with her, that in the exuberance of his
pleasure, her father-in-law said to her encouragingly,
My dear child, you will soon be quite a Stent.'

The young girls of the family were equally praiseworthy
in their conduct. They were taught all the
proper accomplishments by a certain Miss Dawson,
who being now nearly fifty, had instructed successive
families of young female Tents ever since she had
commenced her career as an instructress at the age
of eighteen. If, unfortunately, the families of two
brothers, or two cousins, were both in want of a
governess, an arrangement was made by which the
little girls of one family went to the house of the
other from ten, say, till four, so that they might not
be exposed to the risk of having a new governess.
At eighteen a lady Stent was brought out, and presented
to Her Majesty as soon as possible. Generally
about three or four years later there would be a little
whispering at the family gatherings, and confidential
views would be exchanged between the mothers in
Stent, while the men nudged each other and smiled.
These symptoms were well known. In less than Sb

fortnight, one fine day the Stent carriage would be
driving about to all the various houses occupied by
members of the family, a Stent coachman would be
conversing affably with the various footmen, and two
tired Stent horses would wish that they had died
before that auspicious day. For Eliza Stent was
engaged to young Green, of Black, Green, French-grey
and Co., Throgmorton Street.

Above all things the clan disliked eccentricity.
Their tastes, they said, were simple. George, John,
and William for the boys ; Eliza, Jane, and Mary
for the girls, were the names they most affected.
They were all supposed to be fond of music and
pictures ; and, indeed, they understood both sufficiently
to talk about them with a great air of intelligence.
Stent senior bought pictures; the younger members
purchased water-colours and etchings. Every Stent
was expected to go abroad for six months at least
before his education was considered complete. This

six montis' tour was talked of by the clan for years
before, and until some other member's turn came.
George had voluntarily postponed his holiday till he
had made a great deal of money, and it was then that
he fell a victim to Clara Lascelles.

Of course, Konald only gradually discovered the
beautiful ways and simple customs of the family
which had so innocently taken him to its bosom.
When it began to dawn on him that George Stent was
very much like William Stent, and that there was
no great difference in conversation and ways between
these two and James Stent, and when he also found
out that James, William, or John, or two of them
with their wives, or all of them, frequently dined at
Porchester Terrace, and as frequently expected George
and Clara to dine with them, he began to be affected
by his usual complaint — boredom. When further
he was delicately informed that, under penalty of
being considered a brute, he was ' expected ' to be at

home when James, William, or John came to dinner,
and to accompany George and Clara when they dined
with Mrs. James, Mrs. William, or Mrs. John, his complaint
assumed an acute form.

Fortunately the joyful event now expected gave
him an excuse to leave which he was not slow to take.
In vain his brother-in-law assured him that he would
not be in the way, and that his room would not be
required. He preferred leaving, and he did so all the
more willingly that he had obtained three months*
leave from his duties, of which he resolved to
spend a greater portion at Portino. Here we found
him discussing the future with Mrs. Lascelles.

TO LOVE OR NOT TO LOVE ?

Yes, Edith Woodall was a very delightful girl.
There could be no doubt of her intelligence, which was
apparent in every glance of her eyes, nor of her good
heart, which was abundantly proved by the affection
entertained for her by all who knew her, and by her
numerous acts of thoughtful kindness which could
not remain a secret in the small English colony of
Portino. Yet, did Ronald love her? If love were
really the passion described by poets and novelists, if
its symptoms were always the same or similar, if the
diagnosis of the disease as laid down by those who
ought to know, were correct, then Ronald was

not in love with her. He did not feel miserable if
obliged to spend a few days without seeing her. He
did not count with impatience the minutes which had
to elapse before meeting her again. He could
scramble along very comfortably for a week, or even
longer, without any particular yearning for her sweet
presence. He did not dream of her, still less did he
lie awake thinking of her. He could enjoy himself
very much at a cricket-match, or sailing, without
her image disturbing his mind in the least. He could
even get on very well with other young ladies, perhaps
less intelligent and less kind-hearted, but yet quite
delightful company. They did not suffer by comparison
with Edith. Miss A. or Miss B., to whom he
did not think of proposing, whom he did not care two
straws about, were very fair substitutes for Edith if
she did not happen to be in the way. He would talk
to them, dance with them, and even flirt with them.
When at last he was once more in the presence of

Miss Woodall, lie did not feel any extraordinarily
violent pleasure. He was very happy no doubt, but
not so very much happier — was he at all happier ? —
than on the previous evening with Miss A. or Miss
B. Of course she was their superior. He could talk to
her on matters which would have been Greek to them
on books and art, and even politics, which were
beyond their understanding. So he ran less chance
of being bored by her, and Ronald was very easily
bored. But he never remembered to have been bored
for one instant by Edith Woodall, Perhaps that
was a proof of love. Perhaps he, Ronald, was only
capable of negative symptoms ; not, in fact, a good
subject for the complaint. Certainly he had attained
the age of twenty-seven without having suffered any
of the agonies described by poets and novelists — except
for a short time. He had been much taken up
by Miss Monsell, the beautiful American. He had
thought her lovely, original, and delightful. When

she gave him the cold shoulder, he had been
awfully hard hit,' as he termed it, and had moped
for a couple of weeks. But now,, thinking over his
feelings after a year's interval, he believed that he had
suffered from mortified vanity rather than disappointed
love. He knew that he had made a favourable impression
on the girl, and fancied that that favourable
impression had gradually deepened into a stronger
feeling. He thought himself indispensable to her
happiness, and he built beautiful castles in the air.
Suddenly she showed unmistakably that Mr. Ronald
Lascelles was not at all indispensable to her, and his
beautiful castles collapsed. He had been horribly
disappointed and annoyed, but was he heart-broken ?
Not quite — at any rate not then. Possibly he had no
heart to break, that is, no sensitive heart such as
lovers are supposed to possess. Now, comparing his
feelings about Edith Woodall with those he had
entertained for Miss Monsell, the American heiress,
VOL. I. 5

he found them very dissimilar. There were great
differences, no mere shades of distinction. The American
was dashing, peculiar, and original ; she would
never condescend to obey, though she might possibly
consult her husband if she loved him. With her Ronald
felt that she would absorb him altogether, that he
would probably always play second fiddle to her lead.
But then her personality imposed itself in such a
way that he foresaw no unpleasantness in thus dropping
into the second place. The case was obviously very
different with Edith Woodall. Brought up in a quiet
family circle, having spent the greater part of her
life in Portino, she spoke Italian and French like a
native, but was absolutely ignorant of the pursuits
and amusements in which young ladies like Miss
Caulfield and Miss Monsell had spent half their life.
She knew nothing of the fashionable world of London ;
she had never been on a race-course ; she had never
ridden anything more lively than a brown Italian

donkey : she considered it a great tiling to go to half
a dozen dances during the winter. Of course she
knew much which the other young ladies did not
know ; in culture she was obviously their superior,
in temper, as Ronald expressed it, ' she could give
them fifty in a hundred.'

So though he thought that he was not quite as
fond of Edith as he had ever been of Miss Monsell, he
was attracted to her by totally different qualities.
She would undoubtedly be a thoroughly good wife to
any man she loved. She was an excellent housekeeper,
too, which was no unimportant matter, as
Ronald well knew, having had to ' chum ' it for some
years with a bachelor friend. Probably she would
make a thousand a year go as far as two thousand in
other hands. She had taken charge of her widowed
father's house when she was sixteen, and had
proved an excellent hostess. Their entertainments
were, no doubt, simple and homely, yet the

5—2

one English banker in Portino, wliicli was full of
strangers every winter, received many people at
his house, and there was scarcely an evening
during the season on which the family were quite
alone.

But was not this catalogue of virtues almost commercial
by its very completeness ? Surely a fond
lover could not thus glibly run off the moral perfections
of his mistress, and calmly compare them with
the charms of other women ! A lover, thought
Eonald, would be more enthusiastic and less sensible.
Love is, of course, traditionally blind. Now he could
see too well that Edith's mouth was large, and her
nose neither aquiline and Roman nor straight and
Greek. He could also perceive that she had no large
quantity of hair, though what there was of it was fair
and soft. If he were in love with her, he ought to
consider her mouth exactly the right size, to be
convinced that the ancients were fools in their

opinion about noses, and, in fact, to be under
the impression that her face and form were perfection.


He had heard his friends speak about the ladies of
their hearts, and they had done so with an enthusiasm
which, unfortunately, he did not at present feel. His
chum,' St. Clair, had some time ago fallen in love
with a certain Miss Denny, whom he had met in
Suffolk, where he was invited to shoot. Ashen he returned
to Somerset House he could talk of no one but
this lovely Miss Denny. She was beautiful, she was
brilliant, she was the j oldest and dearest girl-ever
seen. Her figure was perfection, and as to her face, so
pretty and 'piquante, it was too delicious to describe.
As the autumn wore on into the winter, St. Clair's
enthusiasm rather increased than diminished, and
Ronald had become very curious to see this wonderful
Miss Denny, who had fascinated his good-looking
friend. At last the Suffolk folks came up to town for

the season, and one afternoon St. Clair carried Ronald
off to be introduced to them.

Miss Denny turned out to be a small, skinny little
thing, with nothing attractive at all. She was quick
and bright, and dressed well ; but Ronald was entirely
at a loss to understand how his friend, a man who
went about quite as much as himself, and had had
ample opportunities of seeing the prettiest women in
London, could consider this young lady at all good-looking.
Yes, love, or at any rate St. Clair's love, Alas
evidently quite blind — utterly unconscious of any imperfections
in the lady ; wrapped up in admiration for
her as if she were the only woman in the world, looking
at her through spectacles which rounded off*
angles, filled up hollows, straightened ugly curves, and
curved ugly straight lines, enlarged that which was
too small, and diminished what was too large. Were
such glasses always the accompaniment of love ?
Could love not exist except with blindness ? Or was

this all-admiring, all-beautifying temper only confined
to St. Clair ? No, for Count Stornello, one of the
young Italians who was most intimate with the
English colony at Portino, had confided to Claude his
enthusiastic admiration for Signora Ferrara.

Signora Ferraris was married, but of course in Italy
it is quite permissible for young men to proclaim
their love for somebody else's wife from the housetops,
and the last person to take offence is the husband.
Stornello was more demonstrative than St.
Clair, and equally blind. Meme. Ferraris was fat, and
had no complexion at all except what she borrowed
from the little pots on her toilet-table, and she was
nearly old enough to be the Count's mother. But he
raved of her wonderful eyes, which indeed she knew
how to use to the best advantage ; her faded complexion
was to him attractive morbidezza ; her ample
form became the rounded contours of graceful matron-hood.
Stornello would call on her, and wait an

hour for a kind glance ; he would look at his watch a
hundred times during the afternoon, hoping for the
moment when she would drive across the Ia Marina,
and give him a suave bow or a coquettish nod ; he
twould rush to the theatre the moment the doors were
opened and never take his eyes off her box till she
entered it, when he could often not wait for the
entvacte, but must push out through the crowd to
wait on her. All this was indeed now over, but
Konald remembered it well.

At these absurdities Konald had often smiled.
How he envied St. Clair and Stornello their illusions !
How wonderful \ a creature Edith Woodall would
appear to him if he could only borrow their glasses !
For she was young and graceful, and had none of
these shocking defects so painfully apparent in Miss
Denny and Signora Ferraris. But he had not lost his
ordinary eyesight, and instead of rhapsodizing like
Stornello, or unceasingly talking of his love like St.

Clair, here he was calmly making a schedule of her good
points and bad ones, as if Miss Woodall were a horse
offered for sale. So much was clear, he had not, like
so many others, allowed his heart to control his reason
or his eyes. So he returned to the idea which had
already run in his mind. Perhaps, after all, he was
incapable of the foolish and blind passion to which
other men were subject. Perhaps he was not made to
suffer the tortures nor to enjoy the infinite pleasures
of an all-absorbing love.

No doubt they would be very happy together if she
accepted him, which he thought probable though
not certain.

But still Ronald had misgivings. Having almost

made up his mind to propose, on the ground that he

loved Edith as dearly as he was ever likely to love anybody,
he suddenly began to consider the matter from

the lady's standpoint. After all, was it quite fair to

offer her what professed to be his hand and heart

when the heart was really not entirely hers ? Was
it just to a girl so charming and so thoroughly straightforward,
to come to her under false pretences ? She
certainly deserved a more ardent love than he could
bestow, a warmer lover than he would become. If, ashe
occasionally thought, she cared more for him than
he did for her, if she loved him sufficiently to accept
him, it would surely be an ill reward for her devotion
to give her mere friendship. But Ronald was not so
conceited as to be quite sure of the love which
his mother thought was undoubtedly his. In fact he
looked upon matters far too dispassionately to be
sanguine about anything. He was not sure of Edith's
feelings, and he was still more uncertain about Mr.
Woodall's views. To do him justice, the prospect
of a share in the Bank and of the affluence which
would follow, scarcely influenced him at all. He
could not at present afford to marry a penniless girl,
but then he was not bound to marry immediately.

He could wait till his position improved. He must
work for his living, and by-and-by, perhaps, he
would have earned a competence and could look out
for a wife without regard to her worldly means.
Ronald would certainly not marry some one he did not
care about, for the mere sake of wealth and position.
To sell himself, to owe all to a wife whom he did not
love, was a thought too horrible to contemplate ; and
he knew well that, anxious as his mother was to see
him comfortably settled, desirous as was his father
for his worldly prosperity, neither parent would urge
on him a distasteful match.

TWO BEFORE AND TWO AFTER.

Have you thought that matter over, Eonald ?' said
Mrs. Lascelles the next morning, when Mr. Lascelles
had gone ito his office, and Teresina was practising
noisily rather than melodiously in what was formerly
the school-room.

Yes, mother, and I cannot make up my mind,' replied
Ronald.

Don't you like her after all ?' asked T^Irs. Lascelles.

I do like her very much, but I cannot make up
my mind that I love her enough to want to marry her.'

A look of anxiety passed over Mrs. Lascelles' face.
She rose from her chair, and approached her son,
placing a hand on his shoulder.

Ronald, is there anybody else ?' she asked,
fixing her eyes on his face with a look of grave
inquiry.

Oh no, mother dear,' he replied, more lightly than
she quite liked.

No one at all ? are you quite sure V she repeated.
No lady of whom you are fond ? Tell me frankly,
my dear boy. If you have some engagement, some
fancy which you would rather not tell your father '

Nothing of the sort, mother,' interrupted Ronald ;
nothing, upon my honour !'

Mrs. Lascelles kissed him warmly. ' I am so glad,'
she said, resuming her seat, while a look of pleasure
returned to her eyes. ' You would tell me if there
were, would you not ? I would not scold you, child ;
I know young men are often foolish without being
really wicked.'

I would tell you anything, mother dear,' answered
Ronald, kissing her in turn ; ' even if I had done something

to be ashamed of. But fortunately I am quite
free.'

Then what can be your objection to Edith
Woodall V asked Mrs. Lascelles, returning: to her text.

I have no objection to her at all said Konald.
I have told you the only reason why I cannot make
Tip my mind to propose to her.'

Nonsense, Ronald ; you mean that you don't adore
her as if she were a goddess, and are not silly about
her ! I think you are much more likely to be happy
together than if your head were full of absurd ideas
about impossible perfection. She will make a most excellent
wife, and I am quite sure the ridiculous love-making
one sometimes sees is quite sickening, and is
no proof of real affection at all.'

But surely I ought to love the girl whom I marry T
objected Ronald.

Love ! of course you should love her. As a matter
of fact, I believe you do ; at any rate, quite enough for

the present. If you are so lucky as to get her to say
yes, you will adore her before you have been married a
week. According to your standard I was never in
love with your father, nor did he ever go down on his
knees and worship me.'

Now this might be true, or it might not ; Mrs.
Lascelles certainly intended to tell the truth, but old
people sometimes forget what their feelings were
thirty years before. Whether she had passionately
loved her husband or not, Mrs. Lascelles had been a
devoted wife ; and though in early days surrounded by
good-looking Italians whose sole pursuit seemed to be
to pay her compliments and to make love to her if
she permitted it, she had never had the shadow of a
flirtation, and had accepted all the pretty things she
heard as so much rubbish which might amuse her, but
could not divert her thoughts for a moment from the
husband to whom she trusted implicitly, and who had
the same faith in her. There had been troubles in

their early married life, but these troubles were
financial and political only. Never had the gloom of
doubt nor the darkness of jealousy been cast over their
path. They were perfectly happy With each other,
though happy in a quiet subdued manner which
might appear cold to some persons. Ronald had
never thought about his parents' married life for the
simple reason that there was nothing to make his
thoughts wander into that channel. They had always
got on very well together, though he heard his father
occasionally grumble, and his mother would sometimes
say, ' Oh, how fidgety you are to-day, dear !'
But that v»^as the nearest approach to a quarrel that
had ever taken place in his presence ; and even this was
an event of rare occurrence. Now, however, that his
mother cited her case as an example of how happy
people could be together without any show of
passionate adoration, he began to doubt whether his
parents' married life was quite the ideal he dreamt

of. The thought seemed unfilial and almost profane,
but was their affection not rather commonplace and
dull?

Of course your experience should guide me,
mother, he replied affectionately, sitting down at
her feet ; ' but I must confess I am rather nervous
about it.'

Shy ?' inquired Mrs. Lascelles ; ' surely not ?'

No. Not shy about speaking to Edith, I don't
mean that ; but nervous about the result of the
experiment. You see we can't get unmarried again
if we should not suit each other.' •

Trust me, my dear ' replied his mother. ' When
you have been married six months to so sweet a girl
as Edith Woodall, you will wonder how on earth you
ever managed to Hve without her !'

Ronald laughed.

It is nothing to laugh at,' continued she ; ' it is quite
true. And now I have lost Clara it would make me

VOL. I. 6

very happy to have another daughter to love. You
could not bring me one whom I could love better than
Edith;

Mrs. Lascelles spoke rather sadly ; Clara had at one
time been quite in sympathy with her mother, but
her letters now showed her to be becoming more and
more a member of the Stent family. They told of
new dresses, and grand dinners, and household details ;
but Mrs. Lascelles did not find in them that confidential
interchange of ideas and hopes, of thoughts
which she believed she had a right to expect.

Teresina was still very young, and her mother
missed the eldest daughter more than she cared to
confess even to herself. There was, therefore, a tiny
spice of very pardonable selfishness in the advice she
was giving her son.

You seem so very sure of the matter, mother,' said
Ronald. ' You don't seem quite to understand me.
We are not all made alike, you know.'

Mrs. Lascelles looked up inquiringly, ' Is there anything
new to understand ? It appears to me plain
and straightforward enough. Here is a nice girl who
I believe is ready to marry you, and who I know
would make you thoroughly happy. She has money,
too, which is an additional advantage, and the only
objection you raise, having no attachment elsewhere,
is that you are afraid you will not love her well
enough. My dear boy, I am quite satisfied that your
scruples are exaggerated and mistaken. You will
make her an excellent husband, and you will be as
happy as the day is long. If you don't say anything
to-day, at any rate you should speak to her at Cavaliers
Donati's tomorrow ; you must not delay too much, for
I can tell you that Edith Woodall is much admired,
and will not remain unmarried long.'

Still Ronald was not quite satisfied. There was no
one more competent to advise him than his mother,
and he ought to have been satisfied, but he was not.

6—2

He spent the evening at home, and was very happy
with his sister and his sister's friends. They talked
and played at table-turning, and had a little music,
and were altogether a jovial little party. When old
Marietta came to fetch her young mistress, Mrs.
Lascelles gave Ronald a meaning look. It was
perversity on his part not to understand it, but he
pretended to be deep in a conversation with Signora
Bothwell, the mother of one of the girls. He did not
wish to walk home with Edith ; he might be tempted
to say something he would afterwards regret. He
would like another night to think it over.

But when Teresina innocently said, ' Ronald, surely
you are going to see Edith home,' as if she had been
egged on by Mrs. Lascelles, there was no excuse
handy. A glance of pleasure flashed across Edith's
face, but she protested. It was quite unnecessary;
Marietta could take care of her well enough ; the
Tramontana was so cold, and so on. But of course

Ronald insisted oa escorting her, and having donned
his overcoat, bothered her his arm Then they reached
the streets. Such a thing was not usual in Portino,
where Italian customs, so strict in some respects and
so lax in others, had overridden their English
habits. Ronald would not have been surprised if she
had refused the support, for in Portino if a girl walked
up the Via ]marina on a young man's arm. they were
at once supposed to be engaged. So he rather Lightly
and maliciously resolved to consider her response to
his other as a test of her feelings towards him. If she
declined, he would not risk a more important request :
if she accepted, it should mean that she would accept
his hand as well. Of course the test was not a fair
one, for poor Edith could not guess what was passing
in his mind, and might very well have refused to give
late wayfarers in Portino an opportunity for gossip.
Ronald himself was conscious of the absurdity of the
ordeal, but nevertheless he stuck out his arm in a determined

manner. And his heart beat faster than usual
as he did so. There was a moment's hesitation ; Edith
looked up at him doubtfully. After all, thought
Ronald, my mother was wrong. But then the little
hand was placed gently on the rough coat, and
Ronald could not help feeling gratified. It is always
pleasant to think that an attractive girl likes you,
even if you are not prepared to marry her on the
spot. The distance to Casa Woodall was far too short
for much conversation. But it led along the broad
Ia Marina, past the brightly lighted facade of the
Casino Nobile. As they approached the door of this
building, two young men emerged, and met them
rather abruptly. After a short stare of surprise one
of them made a most elaborate bow to Miss Woodland
both of them of course stepped aside. Edith returned
the bow, which made Ronald ask her whether
she knew the man.

It is the marchese della Rocca,' replied she. ' He

brought letters to papa, and is stopping here for a
little while ; I believe he is a friend of the Donatus,
too.'

Then I suppose he will be at their dance tomorrow V

Oh yes, of course. He has asked me for a dance
already.'

Indeed,' said Ronald, displeased, though he scarcely
knew Why, save that the short glance he had had of
the Marchese had not produced a pleasant impression.
Will you keep a couple of dances for me, Miss
Woodall ?' he added, after a moment's interval.

Certainly, if you wish,' replied the girl, with alacrity.

This made Ronald bolder. ' Two before supper and
two after ?' he suggested.

Is not that rather too many ?' asked Edith, smiling.

No, not half enough !' he exclaimed, as they
reached the banker's door.

Will you come in V inquired Edith ; * I am sure
papa is still up.'

Konald declined. He was not going to disturb Mr.
Woodall at eleven o'clock. But as lie took leave
under the jpovte cohere, he said : ' Mind, two dances
before supper and two afterwards ; I will be there
early, and will ask nobody till I have seen your card.'

That will be very unkind to the other girls,' said
Edith.

They must get on without me till you come,' he replied,
laughing ; ' I dare say they will do very well.
Good-night, Miss Woodall. ' Mind,' he added, holding
her little hand longer than was quite necessary, ' it is a
promise.'

It shall be, if you like. Good-night, and thank
you so much for bringing me homes

A VERY GOOD BALL.

The dance at the Donatis' was to be the last of the
Portino season, and their large rooms were quite fitted
to give a crowning finish to a lively winter. Italian
palazzo are not comfortable for a small family when
the Tramontana blows, and English people then sigh
for a snug little home in a London street ; but when a
hundred people meet, and more than half of them
want to dance, the advantages are all on the side of the
vast rooms and the scanty furniture. Everybody worth
knowing in Portino was invited, and as there was no
competing assembly, nearly everybody came. Ronald
arrived early escorting his mother and Teresina, in

whose favour an exception was made on this occasion,
as she was not what we call ' out.' Father and son,
having made their bows, walked through the rooms
together.

Do you know anything of that man, father ?' asked
Konald, pointing out to the Consul the Marchese della
Kocca, who, with his opera-hat under his arm, was
bowing deeply to Signora Donatus

believe he is a very distinguished young man,'
replied Mr. Lascelles. ' He is one of the Della Roccas,
the old Tuscan family, you know. They have enormous
property near Sienna.'

'What brings him to Portino, I wonder?' said
Ronald.

That is more that I can tell you, my boy,' replied
the Consul. ' Probably he is merely amusing himself,
like most of these young Italians. I understand that
he is the chief of the eldest branch, and very well off
indeed. His father died last wear.'

He is a beast, anyhow remarked Ronald.

I don't see it replied Mr. Lascelles ; ' I think he's
very good-looking.'

But Ronald stuck to his opinion. No doubt the
Marchese's appearance seemed to challenge public
taste. His face was undoubtedly handsome — according
to a certain standard. He had fine large black
eyes, a formidable moustache twisted up at the points,
a small straight nose, and a well-cut chin. But the
way in which the man spoke and moved, nay, the
mere shape of his collar was, in Ronald's opinion,
sufficient for any well-regulated English gentleman *to
wish to kick him downstairs. He sniffed what his
father was too old, or too Italian, to notice — the vainglorious
air of the foreign lady-killer, than which
nothing more offensive has ever existed. Delia
Rocca's low forehead was just high enough to contain
mean thoughts behind it, and no more.

Ronald well knew the class of which this was a

superfine type ; knew them too well. To him, born
and bred as he had been in Portino, these young
Italians had no secrets. Their bragging ways, their
shabby tricks, the coarseness of their feelings under
the gentlest manners, were familiar to him. Scarcely
two of the young members of the Casino Nobile but
had been guilty of acts which would have ensured
their expulsion from English society — scarce one whose
life would have borne even superficial examination by
an English father. To be known for having broken
women's hearts, and to have won large sums at cards,
was the summit of their ambition ; to break these
hearts and to win money were the objects of their
lives. Nothing that was not punishable by law was
dishonourable ; and many crimes of the penal code
were venial if undetected. To lie was no disgrace,
though to be found out and publicly accused of a lie
was cause for a duel. Yet these very men, men who
never read anything except the daily political rag.

men who spent their time in smoking and gambling
or making false love, had polished ways, enchanting
voices, and an ease of manner which most Englishmen
could envy, without being able to imitate. They
did not wash except, once in a way, for a ball, or in
very hot weather, but they looked clean. They never
washed away their vices, but they appeared virtuous.

The Marchese had more money than most of them,
and as he spent it freely he was popular among men
of his age. But he strove not for popularity among
men, but for the love of women, and he looked like it.
To Ronald he appeared as if ' liar ' and ' seducer ' had
been written in black letters on his white, smooth
forehead. His dress alone would have justified an
assault. An enormous open collar, of which the
corners were thrown back at a sharp angle, so as to
display the throat, a waistcoat cut down extremely
low, a gorgeously embroidered shirt-front with diamond
studs, a whole bundle of miniature decorations in the

button-hole of the satin-faced dress-coat. All seemed
to say : ' Look what a fine fellow I am !' But then Ronald
was cross, and he knew more of the Italian jeunesse
dote than most people, and possibly he made Delia
Eocca out to be a greater villain than the handsome
young man really was.

At this moment Edith swept into the room with
her father. Ronald hastily stepped forward, and was
chagrined to see the Marchese seize the girl's card
while he himself, as in duty bound, shook hands and
exchanged a few words with Mr. Woodall. When at
last he obtained the coveted bit of pasteboard, he
noticed 'R' scribbled over it in too many places to
please him. But there were several blanks, and four
of them were soon filled by his own initials. Young
Donati claimed Edith for the first dance, and then
the Marchese came and swept her off.

She had certainly never looked better. Even the
hideous crinoline of the period did not disfigure her.

Clad in white, with bouquets of real violets set round
the top of her dress and catching up the ample gauze-like
folds of her skirts, her fair shoulders seemed to
gain by comparison with the carleton. Her soft hair
was full of golden flashes in the light of the candles,
and her large dark eyes, deep with a pure maiden's
thoughts, glanced quickly and kindly from one to
another of her friends as she floated round the room
to the seductive strains of ' II Bacio.' Ronald thought
that the way that Italian hound stooped over her, till
his long moustache swept her soft cheek, was positively
disgusting. And she appeared to him almost
beautiful. That she was the best dressed girl in the
room was certain, and he began to believe that she
was one of the prettiest.

The waltz was at last over. Ronald rushed up and
claimed the next, nor would he leave her side, forcing
the Italian at last to walk off with a suave bow.

What a lovely bouquet !' exclaimed Ronald, as

Edith smelt the violets and white roses she held in
her hand.

Yes, is it not ?' said the girl. ' The Marchese sentit
this afternoon. It suits my dress exactly. After
all, there is no place like dear old Portino for flowers.'

D n the Marchese !' exclaimed Ronald, under

his breath. ' Do you like that beast ?' he asked
aloud.

Which beast ?' inquired Edith, surprised, and
looking round, as if she expected to see an ape or a
sat in the room.

Delia Rocca, of course,' answered he.

What language, Mr. Lascelles ! Why do you call
him a beast ? I think he is very nice, and he dances
beautifully.'

I call him a beast because I know the sort of
fellow,' answered Ronald.

You seem to judge very quickly,' replied Edith.

Yes ; quickly, but justly. You cannot, of course,

know. Young ladies are not expected to know, but
lie is the last man I would like my sister to dance
with.'

Miss Woodall looked much surprised, and Ronald
had scarcely uttered the words before he repented.
It was a mean trick thus to slander a man of whom
he knew nothing unfavourable, and he was ashamed
of himself directly. Just then the music began. Ina
pause of the polka he returned to the subject.

I spoke hastily about Delia Rocca just now. Miss
Woodall ; I really know nothing whatever against
him. But the fact is, I hate him because be admires
you. That is the long and short of it, and I may as
well confess at once.'

Edith blushed a little, but answered lightly :

'Then you won't have many people to hate, Mr.
Lascelles.'

Delia Rocca, at all events,' he replied. ' Why, he
cannot take his eyes off you ! Look at him now.'

VOL. I. 7

Shall we go on ?' asked Edith, to get away from
the subject which could not be agreeable to her, for
while she was not able to pretend to dislike the
fascinating Marchese, who had made himself very
pleasant during their short acquaintance, she did not
wish to quarrel over him with her old friend and ally
Konald.

So they again dashed into the dance. Edith understood
the polka better than most English girls. With
her it was not two hops forward with a kick, two hops
back again with another kick, and then several hops
round with more kicks. When she and Ronald
danced it, the polka became as smooth and graceful as
the waltz, with far greater variety. Without getting
out of time they could swing slowly and talk, or
twist easily and with no apparent effort through a
crowd of hoppers, whose heels threatened at every
moment to come down heavily and sharply on the
toes of other dancers. Or, when there was room, they

could glide swiftly backwards across the smooth parquet,
or fly in swift gyrations round the fringe of the
dowagers and wallflowers.

Delia Rocca watched them intently, but there was
no frown visible on Its face as there was on Ronald's
when he, in turn, had to watch the Italian leading Miss
Woodall through the then fashionable lancers. The
Marchese talked much to his partner in that low rich
voice so often heard in Italy. There was an air of
confiding secrecy about him even when he made the
most commonplace remark. He spoke, too, with his
expressive eyes, which now flashed in fun, then again
cast tender glances, but were always turned in admiration
towards Edith. She seemed to be amused and
interested, and to listen to the handsome Italian with
increasing attention. Not once did Ronald catch her
eyes straying to where he was leaning moodily against
a pillar. He could see her well from where he stood,
and whenever the maze of the lancers cut off a full

7—2

view for a moment, lie could still distinguish her fair
head bending towards the Marchese, and harkening to
his honeyed words.

It was a bad quarter of an hour for Ronald, because
he was beset with doubts and anxieties. He told
himself that he was not jealous. He would not have
minded it a bit if Donati or young Wells had started
a mild flirtation with Miss Woodall ; but it galled
him bitterly that she should listen to this abominable
creature, to this Marchese, whose very thoughts were
hideous and revolting, whose very touch was defiling,
whose soft speech and gentle manners were only a
veneer which covered a cold and rotten heart. He
could see through that thin coat of veneer; how
strange that neither Edith nor his own father, nor
hers, could perceive anything dangerous in the
fascinations of the handsome youth. If he had
decided to ask Edith to become his wife it would be a
very different matter. Then he would see his way.

He could even now take the first opportunity to propose,
and if lie said yes, he would make use of his rights
at once, while if she refused him he would leave her
to the Marchese's wiles.

Should he do so ? Should he speak out during the
next dance, which was to be his ? Even yet, stimulated
as he was by his dislike of Delia Rocca, he could not
make up his mind to the final plunge. He knew
himself too well to trust his impulse. He argued
with himself that he was irritated, cross, and even
jealous, and therefore in no fit condition to take so
important a step. Then the dance was over and he
saw the Marchese lead his partner into the tea-room.
He found her there ten minutes later, sitting in the
embrasure of a window, half concealed by the curtains.
She was toying with her fan and looking down, while
the Italian was whispering soft nonsense in her ear;
and his bold gaze was fixed on her fair face, and
striving to catch a glance from her averted eyes.

Ronald exercised all the self-control of which he was
capable, and walked very composedly up to the
couple.

I beg your pardon, Miss Woodall/ he said calmly ;
I think this is my waltz. They are just beginning.'

Edith started, and dropped her fan, which the
Italian picked up and handed to her with a sigh.

I am utterly desolated,' he whispered, loud enough
for Ronald to hear, ' to have to resign that beautiful
hand. From heaven I descend to purgatory. But
the tortures of purgatory are not eternal, you know.
You will be the kind angel to raise me once more, will
you not, cai'isshna signorina ?'

Then he rose quietly made her a dignified bow,
and moved away, not deigning even to look at
Ronald.

The latter now spoke in the usual ball-room tones
of easy persiflage, resolutely beating down his anger
at what he termed the Italian's impertinence.

*You are really flirting dreadfully with the Marchese
!' he said, as Edith took his arm.

Am I V she asked innocently. ' I really did not
know it.'

Why, you knew he was making love to you most
audaciously !' exclaimed Ronald. ' He called you his
angel and his dearest !'

Did he V again inquired Edith rather maliciously.
I dare say.'

Well ? and you listened to it all quietly, and took
it in quite easily, as if you liked it.'

Oh !' she replied ; ' all Italians talk a great
deal of nonsense. They think themselves bound
to say absurd things to every girl they dance
with.'

Do they all talk like the Marchese ?' inquired
Ronald.

Some of them. Not quite all, perhaps. I am quite
used to it, and it goes in at one ear and out at the

other. But they are very amusing and nice, and the
Marchese dances beautifully.'

In the intervals of the valse Konald returned to the
charge.

'You do not attach much importance to the
romantic declarations of Delia Kocca ?' he asked.

Certainly not. That style is usual here. It's more
amusing, though, than to have a partner who can
only talk about the weather, like some of papa's
English friends.'

*I admit that,' answered Konald. 'It is more
amusing, but more dangerous.'

Dangerous ? I don't think so,' said Edith. ' I
know how to take care of myself, Mr. Lascelles.'

Are you quite sure ? You see, Miss Woodall, I
should not mind if I were quite certain that you took
all these compliments and enthusiastic declarations for
what they are worth. But I am afraid you believe
half of them.'

A VERY GOOD BALL. 105

That is not a particularly civil speech remarked
Edith. ' You don't think I am worthy of them, then V
she asked archly.

Worthy !' exclaimed Ronald ; ' you are far too
good for any of these wretches. It is because I think
so much of you that I bore you with my warnings.'

There is your prejudice again,' said Edith, holding
up her finger.

No, indeed, no prejudice. But will you give me
the supper dance, Miss Woodall ? This has been such
a short one, because I did not find you till it was
nearly half over,' Ronald asked hastily, for young
Donati was approaching to claim his partner, and she
would be hurried away in a moment.

Edith gave him her card. There was an ' R ' very
distinctly and largely writ at the line corresponding
to the supper dance. Ronald very deliberately drew
out his pencil, scratched out the 'R,' and wrote
Lascelles ' in the blackest characters over it.

io Clout!

Thank you, Miss Woodall/ he said, returning the
card.

Then he went off to dance with Miss Donati, and
afterwards gave Teresina a turn, as he termed it. But
he was careful to be close to Edith at the end of the
quadrille which preceded the supper dance, and
hardly had the music ceased when he claimed her
from Mr. Paul, a mild young Englishman who was
travelling in Italy with his tutor.

In a minute the Marchese came up to the couple,
who were walking up and down the scclon, waiting for
the music to begin. He accosted Edith with his
usual deep bow :

'Signorina,' he said, 'I think that you were so
gracious as to promise me the pleasure.'

Thank you, Marchese ; I am engaged.'

Yes, signorina, to your devoted slave,' said Delia
Kocca, bowing again, without appearing to notice
Konald.

Signorina Woodall has promised me this dance
said the latter.

The Marchese still did not look at him, but turned
again, appealing to Edith.

Mr. Lascelles' name is down, I believe,' she said,
handing her card to Delia Rocca.

The latter glanced at it, and then returned it with
another deep bow :

'Pardon me, signorina; I have made a mistake.
What would you ? The wish is often father to the
thought. A thousand excuses, I pray.' •

And he retired. But this time he shot one look of
deep meaning at Ronald, who caught himself blushing
violently.

After all, I think I must have been engaged to the
Marchese,' said Edith, looking at her card carefully
after they had taken a few turns round the room.
Mr. Lascelles, you scratched his name out !'

I did,' said Ronald quietly.

'How dared you?' asked Edith, but not by any
means as if she were much vexed.

Simply because I wanted to dance with you myself,
and take you in to supper.'

How did you know that I should permit such a
thing ?' she inquired. ' Now you must take me to the
Marchese at once, and I will apologize. He is in the
corner there.'

Indeed you will do no such thing,' replied Konald.
Is it such a great sacrifice then ? Have you been
deprived of a very great pleasure ?'

Nonsense !' she answered. ' But it was very rude
of me.'

The rudeness was not yours, since you knew
nothing about it,' said Konald. ' Now, let things
alone, please do. What is the use of making such
a fuss about it ? Come, let us take one more
turn

And Edith Alas whirled away, not unwillingly. She

did not really care one bit about dancing with Delia
Rocca, and much preferred having Ronald's comparatively
prosaic talk to the Italian's flowery and exaggerated
compliments. Though she pretended to
attribute Ronald's warnings entirely to prejudice, she
was herself dimly conscious that some of the Marchese's
speeches were not quite such as he ought to
address to a young unmarried lady.

Too pure herself to know anything of evil, yet, her
perceptions being awakened by Ronald's hatred of the
ItaHan, she had noticed something in his tone and
manner which was disagreeable, and some mysterious
meaning seemed to lurk in his honeyed words and
soft smiles, which she was absolutely disinclined to
fathom. So, on the whole , she was by no means sorry
not to have the Marchese's company during the supper
interval, which, at the Palazzo Donati, was no brief
pause between the dances. The Donatis prided themselves
on doing things well, alV Angles, and the

supper was a very different affair to the weak tea and
cakes usual at Portino dances.

There was room for everyone to sit down at the
little tables set out in the great hall, which was one
of the features of the palace. A numerous array of
liveried servants brought what was required; there
was no squeezing and hustling, nor urgent demands
for champagne and pressing requests for the leg of a
fowl. Young Donati, with Teresina on his arm, saw
Konald and Edith looking for a table.

Come with us, caro Kinaldo,' he exclaimed ; ' herein
this corner. I have a charming 2:)osto reserved
for us.'

They agreed willingly, and there was a merry little
ixirtie carrie in that distant corner. They were all
on excellent terms with each other, and even had
they been inclined to be dull, which they were not,
Teresina's intense delight at this her first ball, would
have kept them going. The Marchese was invisible,

and Ronald, having forgotten his doubts and worries,
was as merry as any of them. It was some time
before they broke up, and, as a matter of course,
Ronald led off his unresisting partner to the after-supper
waltz, always the best of the evening.

Edith had lost her card, not perhaps without a little
assistance from Ronald, who had slyly removed it
from the supper-table, and torn it into small pieces.
At any rate. Miss Woodall knew not to whom she was
engaged, and danced away with Ronald as if cards
had never been invented. The Marchese did not
come near her. Donati frankly volunteered to give
up the next galop in favour of Ronald, if Teresina
would dance with him instead; and as the little
maid was nothing loth, the exchange was effected.

Soon, too soon, Mrs. Lascelles rustled up to warn
them that it was time to depart. Mr. Woodall, too,
appeared from the card-room, and casually mentioned
that it was past three o'clock. Teresina was the most

unwilling to go, but at last the three ladies descended
the wide stairs to the cloak-room. Ronald fetched
his overcoat, and waited for them in the hall. At
that moment the Marchese stepped up to him
dangling one glove in his hand in a nonchalant way :

A thousand pardons, signore he said very gently ;
permit me to ask you a question.'

Go ahead said Ronald, surprised.

Excuse me again,' continued Delia Rocca, 'but
may I congratulate the charming Signorina Edit ?

What about ?' asked Ronald gruffly.

'About her betrothal to you, signore. You, of
course, are still more to be congratulated. That is
understood. But not having until now the honour of
your acquaintance, I would wish to present my
homages and most respectful good wishes to the
lovely bride.'

What do you mean ? I am not engaged to Miss
Woodall,' answered Ronald sharply.

Then, signore,' said the Italian, in a grave tone,
you must understand that I cannot allow my name
on a lady's card to be erased by a stranger. Consider
yourself scuffle, if you please.'

And with these words he raised his hand and
lightly passed the glove across Konald's face. Several
young men were about, and they sprang forward
hastily. Ronald lifted his arm to knock Delia Rocca
down, when it was seized by Stornello.

Don't make a row here !' he whispered quickly,
for just then the ladies came out of the cloak-room.
See the women into the carriage, and we will talk
presently.'

Ronald had flushed scarlet, and restrained himself
with the greatest difficulty. At that moment Donati
rushed downstairs to bid the ladies farewell, and in
his impetuosity almost knocked the two young men
over.

A thousand pardons !' he said. ' Caro Rinaldo, I

VOL. I. 8

nearly upset 3^011. 1 was hurrying to make my reverence
to your charming mother and sister.'

The youth's hindering helped Eonald and Store
over the awkward moment. The ladies were
helped into the carriage, and he told Mrs. Lascelles
that he would walk home and smoke a cigar. The
Marchese was one of the group under the j)urie
cocker e^ and bowed deferentially to Edith as she
stepped into her father's brougham. When it had
rolled away Stornello turned to Ronald.

You are among us here in Italy, my friend, and
you must fight

Of course I'll fight !' exclaimed Ronald. ' I'll give
that blackguard a jolly good hiding. Let us get out
and set to at once.'

I'm afraid this will hardly do,' whispered he. ' You
have been grossly insulted before all these men ' — and
indeed a group round the Marchese were talking fast
to each other, gesticulating and looking towards

Ronald — ' and you must fight a duel en regie, if you
do not wish to be disgraced in Portino.'

All right,' answered Ronald. ' Go and tell him so.
Anything you please, as long as I can give the fellow
-a lesson.'

Count Stornello stepped towards the group, bowing.
The men fell back at once, so that he could a23proacli
the Marchese della Rocca, .who was leaning against a.
pillar twisting a cigarette.

Marchese,' he said, ' I have had the honour of
meeting you at the Club. I am Count Store


Della Rocca inclined his head slightly.

You have insulted my friend, Signer Rinaldo
Lascelles, and he demands satisfaction.'

Gia' murmured Della Rocca, ao^ain bowing:.

Will you give me the name of some gentleman
who will arrange preliminaries ?' asked the Count.

'The Signer Guarini will do everything that is

8—2

required,' said the Marchese, pointing to a military
looking man of about thirty.

Signer Guarini bowed, and Delia Rocca slowly passed
out at the ijovte cocker e, saying :

A rivedere, signori. I shall wait for you at the
Club.'

THE CASINO Noble.

All this had not passed without attracting a certain
amount of attention. Several men had witnessed
the insult, and some had joined the group under the
entrance as the ball drew near its end. Count. Store
who was a young man of Ronald's age, and had
not lived in Italy all his life without several ' affairs of
honour,' was equal to the occasion.

Signori,' he began in a clear but subdued voice,
let us all go away at once. This unfortunate discussion
must be concluded without any scandal, which
would be most annoying to our hospitable friends
here.'

There was a murmur of approbation.

'Signor Lascelles and the Marchese della Rocca
Avill have had a dispute over cards at the Casino.
K inteso V

There was another murmur of assent.

And," he went on, ' all of you being galant nominis
the authorities will know nothing of this business
until it is over.'

He then took Ronald's arm and walked out.

We must find another second,' he said, when they
were alone. 'I should like someone rather more
experienced than myself. Of whom could you think?'

It was difficult to think of anyone at the moment,
and yet both were very unwilling to postpone matters.

'You cannot fight till Saturday, at any rate,' remarked
the Count. It was already Friday morning.

I should like to go and fight now,' said Ronald.

That is out of the question, friend. People do not go
out direct from a ball unless the offence is a mortal one

So it is exclaimed Konald hotly.

Pooh ! nonsense. The glove did not hurt. You
will soon wipe that insult out, and teach the Marquis
better manners. I think on the whole it will now be
best for us to go to the Club for ten minutes, so as to
give colour to the story about a quarrel at cards. You
would not like Miss Woodall's name mixed up with
this affair, would you V

Indeed not,' replied Eonald ; ' not for worlds.'

Then come along. I will arrange it"*

It was not as easy to arrange as the Count had
supposed. Delia Rocca did not seem to care about
the young lady's name being kept out of the affair.
In truth, he would have desired it to be proclaimed
loudly that he was fighting for the blue eyes of Signorina
Edit. But pressure was put on him by Guarini
and other members of the Club, and, after much
mysterious whispering in corners, a little card-party
was arranged in one of the private rooms. It was

painful to Ronald to have to expose himself to a
second insult, even though it might only be a piece
or acting. He sat down to ecarte, with the Count at
his elbow to prompt him, while Guarini and Caracalla
supported the Marchese. Delia Rocca paid no
attention at all to the cards, while Ronald was far too
excited to distinguish hearts from diamonds.

Mark three,' whispered Stornello to Ronald. He
did so. When the cards were next dealt he turned
up a king and made the trick.

Game !' said Ronald.

Excuse me, signore,' observed Delia Rocca. ' You
made the trick, and marked the king. That is two.'

Well,' observed Ronald, obedient to his friend's
whisper. * And three before makes game.'

You had only two points before !' exclaimed the
Marchese.

It is a lie,' shouted Ronald, forgetting his part,
and determined that the first insult should not come
from his adversary this time.

In a second he had the cards thrown into his face
by the Marchese, and there was a tremendous noise,
all jumping to their feet and talking at once.

You fool,' hissed the Count into Ronald's ear.
'Now he is the insulted party, and may claim the
choice of weapons.'

For goodness sake let this farce come to an end,*
replied the young man, impatiently. * I don't care wl: at
I chastise him with. A stick is good enough for me.'

Patience, patience !' said the Italian. ' Now go
home quietly, and I will come and see you in the
morning. Mind you get to sleep at once !'

Ronald squeezed the proffered hand, and obeyed
without a word. He lighted a cigar at the door
almost mechanically, and slowly walked towards
home in a sort of dream. Was he asleep, or had he
taken too much wine ? Was all this reality ? Should
he have to meet another man in deadly combat within
the next few hours ? In a moment something had

happened which might cut off his life on its threshold,
or be the cause of taking away that of a man no older
than himself. It was too strange, too surprising to be
real ; it must all be an illusion ! Yet he still felt the
hot blood rise to his face when he thought of Delia.
Kocca's glove, so it must be real after all. It had all
taken place in a very short time. When he reached
the Consulate he could still see a light in his mother's.
room. He threw off his overcoat, and his eyes fell on
a white rose, still full of perfume though half-faded.
It was one Edith had given him out of her bouquet
during the after-supper dance.

*Poor child,' he thought. 'If she had suspected
that my scratching that brute's name out would lead to
this, I should not have persuaded her so easily to stick
to me. She is a dear, nice girl ! I wish I loved her, I
dearly wish it. But pah ! I must not get sentimental

He took the rose out of his button-hole, once more
inhaled its fragrance, full of sweet memories, and

placed it carefully in his pocket-book. Then he
obeyed Stornello's orders by going to bed. He was
quite sure he could not sleep, for the events of the
evening had been too exciting. But he was mistaken.
In a very few minutes he calmed down, for after all,,
thought he, nearly every one of these Italians he despised
so much had had at least one duel, and they were
none the worse. Besides, he had as good a chance of
killing as of being killed, and though he did not like
to contemplate Avhat his after-life would be if he cut
short that of the Marches, yet his hatred of him was.
so great that he dropped off into a dreamless sleep
with his fists clenched.

Indistinct visions of ball-rooms, flowers and small
swords, young men with offensively low collars,
and of a dark girl with a dazzling complexion
and full lips, not a bit like Edith, flitted through his
brain, but they scarcely disturbed him. The bright
Italian sun was already high when he was roused by

a knock at the door, to which he murmured the traditional
' Avanii /'

It was Giuseppe, the ' odd man ' at the Consulate,
who cleaned boots and knives, ran errands, and did
duty as Ronald's valet when he was at home.

Ronald sat up in bed. The man gave him a letter.

It is urgent,' he said, ' or I would not have disturbed
his Excellency.'

His Excellency rubbed his eyes, and the occurrences
of the previous night came back to him. He seized
the letter impatiently. It was from Count Stornello.

*Take breakfast quietly at home,' said his friend,
as if nothing had happened. Come round to my
lodgings at about eleven o'clock. We shall be undisturbed
there, and I will tell you what we have settled.
It is to be this evening if possible.'

It was now half-past nine, so there was no time to
waste. Ronald rose hastily and inquired whether
anybody was yet stirring. He was told that Mr.

Lascelles had rung his bell, and that the Consul would
probably soon be in the dining-room. Here, indeed,
Ronald found him, sipping his coffee and reading
the newspaper — or, rather, the tiny Italian rag which
did duty for a newspaper.

Good morning, Ronald,' said he ; ' I hardly expected
you to be down so early, after dancing all
night.'

I was not so very late, father,' replied the young
man. ' I came in very soon after you.'

I know, I know,' answered Mr. Lascelles. ' But
you see I was playing whist quietly all the evening,
and you were dancing about the room with hardly a
pause. You seem to have enjoyed yourself very
much.'

I danced a great deal, and the supper was excellent,'
said Ronald.

I should think so ! The Donatis do everything
very well. You don't seem to care about your breakfast,

Ronald. Why, at your age I could dance all
night and eat a beefsteak in the morning,' said the
Consul, laying down his paper to look at his
son.

His father's absolute ignorance of the events of the
evening was reassuring to Ronald, who was nervously
impatient to get away, for fear of betraying his excessive
preoccupation. Mrs. Lascelles, who joined them
soon afterwards, was clearly also without any suspicion
of the fracas.

When Ronald rose to leave the room she kissed
him with more than her usual tenderness, as if to
shoal that she was pleased with his conduct. But she
only asked :

Shall you dine at home to-night, Ronald?'

To-night ! Where would he be to-night at dinner-time
? Would he he at all ? Would there not, before
then, be an end to his doubts and hesitations, to his
hopes and fears ?

I think so, mother,' he replied, ' if it is seven
o'clock as usual'

Then he went to Stornello's lodgings, modest, like
those of most young Italians, who have very little idea of
making themselves comfortable in luxurious chambers.
Here he found his friend, and Colonel Martini, an
elderly man, who had earned distinction and a severe
wound in the late war, and had only just been invalided
on a full pension.

My dear Rinaldo,' said Stornello, ' you know
Colonel Martini, of course ? I felt that I had not
sufficient experience in an affair of this seriousness. I
have had a couple of little discussions myself, but
they were not very important. So I asked the Colonel
to help us.'

But,' answered Ronald, who had often met Colonel
Martini at the Consulate, ' my father '

Mr. Lascelles,' interrupted Martini, who was very
fond of addressing Englishmen by English titles, and

invariably directed his notes to Ronald's father, ' Mr.
the English Consul Lascelles, Esquire,' ' I am an old
friend of your respected father. He is an honourable
gentleman of good blood, and has the heart of a soldier,
and has served his country and risked his life for her
more than once, though only a civil servant. I am
sure the British Consul would approve of the course I
am helping his son to take.'

And he held out his hand and pressed Ronald's
warmly.

But you will not tell him V cried Ronald.

*No, my dear young friend. I will not tell him
until all is happily over. For what should I make a
loving father anxious ? A duel cannot be avoided
without disgrace. I am no advocate for duels, when
the cause is trivial; but in this matter the insult was
so gross and so public that I do not see how we can
arrange matters without, at least, a wound, and we
have acted accordingly.'

I am glad to hear it,' replied Ronald. ' I would in
any case have refused to arrange matters.'

Young blood will be impetuous,' the Colonel went
on. * I am glad to see you have a spirit, as indeed
your father's son could not fail to have. But it was
my duty to arrange things amicably if I could. Therefore,
when the good Count here called on me this
morning very early, we went to Signor Guarini's house
and demanded that the Marquis should make a
public apology at the Casino.'

Of course he refused interposed Count Stornello.

Naturally !'. observed the Colonel. ' I quite understand.
The quarrel at the Club is not the real cause
of the dispute. But you may trust me, young
men,' and the old officer winked significantly. *A
lady's name must never be mentioned among noblemen.'


So we are now waiting for the Marchese's seconds
said Stornello. * We have agreed that you are to fi^dit

VOL. I. 9

at six to-night. We do not dare to postpone the affair
till tomorrow, because such a lot of fellows at the
Club know of it, and the police would be sure to hear.
The sooner it is settled the better. Now what arms
would you prefer, Rinaldo mio ? You are good at
the salle caries, I know.'

I should prefer swords,' answered Ronald, ' as I
must not use my fists.'

The Marchese della Rocca,' interposed the Colonel,
is, I understand, a first-rate swordsman. He is also
a good shot. Can you use the pistol, Mr. Lascelles ?'

I have practised a little, but I am not really good,'
said Ronald.

Then we must endeavour to obtain swords,' replied
the soldier. ' This is, of course, your first
affair ?'

Yes.'

Then, above all, you must not be nervous. The
bravest man is nervous at his first duel till his blood

gets warm. I was much frightened myself, and would
have wished to run away. Now, what can we do to
divert our young friend ?' asked the Colonel, turning
to Stornello.

He must certainly not be alone. Could you get
one of your comrades to accompany you to the ,
just to practise a little, you know, without
tiring yourself ?'

Oh yes !' replied Ronald. ' But I should prefer to
go for a sail in the Santa Lucia. There is a nice
breeze to-day, and no sea to speak of,' he added, as he
looked across the room out of the window and noted
the bright waters of the bay sparkling in the sunlight.


My dear young friend !' exclaimed the Colonel in
surprise, 'you might be sea-sick, and the motion
of the boat would affect your steadiness. Not for
worlds r

Ronald laughed. ' I suggested it because I think

9—2

that the breeze would do me good, and blow away the
cobwebs. I was up late last night, you know.'

Better let him go !' said Stornello. ' And it will
disarm suspicion.'

Well, then, be off,' observed the Colonel, shrugging
his shoulders. ' I shall never understand you Enghsh-
ran. But mind you are back by four o'clock at
latest'

And,' added Stornello, ' you may as well have a
suit of dark clothes sent here. Then you need not
go home to dress.'

All right,' exclaimed Ronald, quite pleased. ' Of
course you will look after everything !'

Of course,' answered the Colonel. ' Leave yourself
in my hands. You could not easily find anyone,' he
added, grasping Ronald's hand, 'who is more anxious
for the honour and the safety of his old friend's son.'

SANTA LUCIA.'

Away sped Ronald to the quay, where he soon
found Gasparoo, the man in charge of the Httle yacht
Santa Lucia, owned by the Consul, and which was
now mostly used by his son whenever the young man
was at Portino. Gasparoo was ordered to uncover the
sails and prepare to get under way ; Ronald would
come oft' in a shore-boat. He dashed into his own
room to change his clothes, and in passing his sister's
put his head in.

Will you come for a sail, Teresina ? Start in five
minutes.'

And then he hustled Giuseppe off to get young

Donati to join them; For not only did lie want to
'divert himself,' as the Colonel expressed it, but he
was particularly anxious that all Portino should know
of his trip, so that none should suspect what drama
or tragedy was to follow it. By the time the brother
and sister were ready, Giuseppe returned breathless to
announce that the Cavaliers would meet them at the
quay. Then they thought of provisions, and Mrs.
Lascelles soon packed a little hamper with a couple
of rolls, a bottle of Barolo vecchio, and some cold
meat. No one would have suspected that the merriest
of the jolly trio who pushed off' to the Santa Lucia
in a gaily painted wherry was, a few hours later, to
fight a duel to the death with a practised adversary.

It was a pleasant day. The wind was still off the
land, but its violence had quite abated. The sun was
bright, and the sky cloudless. The Santa Lucia heeled
over to the gentle breeze, and cleaved the waters of
the Mediterranean with no more than a graceful bow

to tho little waves which lapped against her smooth
sides. They sailed round the great Russian ironclad
which was moored in the bay, and then crossed to
Unto Serene, where some of the wealthy Portinese
spent the summer season. Here all the villas were
shut up, and the bathing establishment was deserted.
But they picked up a buoy in the tiny harbour, and
ate their lunch on the deck of the Santa Lucia, watching
the sea-gulls gather round the little bits of meat
they threw overboard, and chatter and quarrel over
them, till a big cormorant would sail in amongst them,
and scattering the noisy crew, secure the morsel for
himself. They bought some tiny oysters from a fisherman,
and broke nails and knives in trying to open them.
Then Teresina sang the sweet Neapolitan sailor-song :

Sir mare lucia
L' astro a' argent ; . . .'

and Gaspar, who was usually very shy about his
vocal powers, at last consented to begin : ' Caroline's

accompanied of course with the characteristic
gestures and mobile changes of expression
• Which none but Italians can imitate, when, for the third
time, he trolled out :

Com' e bella, quelle rise !
Com' e dolce, quelle vis !
Tutti cried' in paradise
Quando sto vicin' a te,'

with his great horny hand first on his mouth, then
on his eyes, and lastly on the place where his heart
was supposed to be. Ronald suddenly said :

Thanks, Gasparoo ! But we must get home ; it is
three o'clock. Let go the buoy and haul up the peak.
I will sail her back.'

Why start so early, Ronald V asked Teresina plaintively.
' AVe have lots of time before dinner, and it is
so awfully jolly.'

I am very sorry, dear,' answered he. ' But I have
a most important business engagement at four, and
we have barely time to get across.'

Teresina pouted up her little mouth, and Bonati
looked quite heart-broken. But Ronald was firm, and
soon the Santa Lucia, with the wind just abaft the
beam and every sail drawing, was flying across the
bay towards the lighthouse on the Portino mole.

What a peaceful, pleasant scene, yet how instinct
with life ! Would Ronald ever again be standing on
the narrow white deck of the tiny Santa Lucia ^
steadying the tiller, and letting the heavenly breeze
cool his forehead ? Was this the last time he would
see his pretty sister sitting against the lee bulwark —
her lithe figure clad in soft blue serge, her brown
hair straying from under the glazed sailor hat, while
her bright eyes glanced mischievously at Gasparoo,
who, leaning against the mast, was finishing, with the
help of a clasp-knife, the remains of the Patron's
luncheon? Would he never again behold Portino,
with its white houses and green shutters, stretched
along the blue bay, the sunny hills behind dotted

with villas, and the bright green of the orange-trees

and the dull grey of the olives ? Should he nevermore

hear the chorus of the red-capped fishermen

as they hauled in their long drift-nets half a mile off

the mole :

'Santa Lucy— a
Santa — Lucia ' %

"if >f. yf. y^

The dingy's keel grated on the stones. Donati
jumped out to help Teresina, who, disdaining assistance,
skipped up the steps like a deer.

Will you take Teresina home V said Eonald to the
young Italian ; ' I must look after my business. I
am late as it is he added, glancing at his watch,
which showed five minutes past the hour.

Donati was delighted.

You will be sure to come to dinner, Ronald,' called
Teresina to him, as he hurried across the wide quay
towards Stornello's rooms. ' Thank you so much !
Such a jolly sail !'

As Ronald climbed up the steep stairs of the Casa
Luigi, where his friend lived, he suddenly stopped.
What a curious circumstance ! He had spent the
whole day without a thought of Edith ! He had
enjoyed the sail, though he knew what must follow. He
had gently, if sadly, contemplated the possibility of
never seeing his good father, his adored mother, or
his dear little sister again. He had taken a good look
at the beautiful bay, as if it were indeed to be the last
look. He had listened to Gaspar's song, and to the
fishermen's chorus, as if he would never hear them
again. He had watched the sea-birds, and thought
that the rustle of their wings and their hoarse shouts
were like the cries and sighs of the shadows in that
abode where the souls of good heretics and unbaptized
children dwell.

Dante had come back to him as if he had but just
risen from reading the sonorous stanzas. But he had
not thought of the terrifying possibility of horrors ;

only of the curious mystery of the endless future
which he might know in a few hours.

But in all these wanderings not once had his mind
strayed to Edith Woodall. Yet it might almost be
said that he was about to risk his life for her.

Was that, then, love ?

SAN CRISTOFORO.

They were waiting for him impatiently.

'These Englishmen take things very coolly,' said
the Colonel, pulling out his watch.

All the better,' replied Stornello. ' Less likely to
be nervous.'

Yes, but che curiosa gente ! Now if one of us
ethers had to fight a duel, we should first go and
practise for a couple of hours at the shooting-gallery,
and then have a jovial dejeilner with a large party of
friends at some good restaurant. It keeps the spirits
up, and prevents a fellow feeling dull.'

That is what / did,' assented the Count.

So did I when I still fought duels,' continued the
Colonel. ' But this young Englishman goes off on his
boat, on the rough stormy sea, and perhaps he is
sea-sick; surely he has had nothing to eat, no company,
no liveliness, no preparation ! Curiosa garde !'
I only hope he has not been upset, or drowned
perhaps. They would say he was afraid !'

Ronald was announced just as even Stornello was
beginning to be seriously anxious. He apologized for
being late ; he had forgotten the time in the pleasure
of the sail. Martini shruorofed his shoulders, and
Stornello showed him into his room to change his
clothes.

The seconds superintended his toilette, which is a
matter of serious importance on such an occasion.
They told him that unfortunately, in the opinion of
those best qualified to form one, the choice of weapons
rested with Delia Rocca ; and he had of course selected
pistols. Therefore the adversaries were to dress in.

dark clothes, with a frock-coat closely buttoned up.
They were to meet at San Cristoforo, about five miles
out of Portino, and the matter was to be settled in a
little wood behind that village. A carriage had been
ordered for five o'clock.

It appeared punctually to the minute. During the
drive Ronald's friends attempted to cheer him. But
as a matter of fact he did not feel particularly depressed.
Somehow he had made up his mind that he
would be shot through the heart, and his thoughts

Avere busier with what would come afterwards than

•

with the duel itself. It would be a pity to leave the
world so soon, and every now and then a momentary
sadness would come over him. It Alas a bright, beautiful
world, and he had as yet seen so little of it ! There
was so much joy, so much brightness and light, for
those who sought for them, and did not make themselves
miserable by imaginary woes. A sigh escaped
his lips as he remembered a sunny afternoon at Lord's,

and a strangely beautiful face under a quaint parasol.
But then again a smile stole over his face as he thought
of some pleasant dinner in London or an amusing
adventure at Portino ; and he was not in the least
frightened. When the Colonel whispered,

Keep up your courage, my friend ; keep steady, or
you will miss him altogether,' he stretched out his arm.

Feel my hand. Look at it,' he said. ' Does it
tremble V and the old soldier was surprised at his
placidity. It was the calmness of excessive nervous
strain ; not that of practised valour. The doubts of
the previous days, the fatigue of the ball, the quarrel,
and the excitement of the morning, had worn out his
nerves, which were simply quiescent for the time. The
carriage drew up at a bridge outside the tiny hamlet
of San Cristoforo, and Colonel Martini led the way up
a path along the little brook which there crossed the
road. Stornello followed, carrying a suspicious-looking
ease covered by a cloak. Ronald knew the place well.

In May, when the Spanish chestnuts were in bloom,
and in June, it was a favourite spot for picnics and
excursions.

At this time of the year the trees were bare of
leaves, and only here and there a timid violet peeped
out of the grass. For about a quarter of a mile they
followed the water ; then they turned to the left up a
steep path, through, an undergrowth of chestnuts
which, were cultivated for vine-sticks. The long
stems grew so close together that, though the leaves
were scarcely budding, the thicket was impenetrable
to the eye beyond a few yards. After a short ascent,
during which the Colonel repeatedly said : * Gently,
signori, gently ! our friend must not be out of breath,'
they reached an open glade where the ground was
almost level. At one end of it was a huge chestnut-tree,
whose majestic branches extended far across
the young grass. At the other extremity was a quiet
pool, whence flowed a tiny rivulet. The glade was
VOL. I. 10

closely surrounded by underwood, and the setting sun
was shut out from it by the dense vegetation. Under
the tree were three gentlemen, one of whom Ronald
at once recognised as Delia Rocca. By the pool were
two more, one of them carrying another suspicious-looking
case.

Wait here,' whispered the Colonel to Ronald, and
stepped forward with Stornello. All the men bowed
to each other most ceremoniously, and Delia Rocca's
seconds, with Ronald's friends, stepped into the
middle of the glade to consult. Two pistol-cases were
produced, and the weapons compared. Then Colonel
Martini came back to his principal, who was watching
the proceedings intently, leaning on his thick orange
stick.

We have arranged to place you with your backs to
each other at thirty paces,' said he. ' When you hear
the word Avanii, you will turn round and, if you
please, advance on your adversary ten paces, but not

nearer. Or you may fire at once if you prefer it. He
will also fire when he pleases. Some people rush forward
and fire instantly ; I do not advise this. Let
me see you hold out your hand at full length.'

Konald did so.

'It is well said the Colonel; 'you are a bravo divine.
It trembles not. Now recollect. When you turn
round, do so quickly, covering your right side with
the pistol arm, and keeping your body sideways towards
the enemy. Do not forget this; it is more
important than all other matters. Keep your eye
and the barrel of your pistol fixed on him ; and lire
when you please. If you choose to advance, do so
step by step carefully ; place the right foot first, and
bring the left slowly after it. Never lose your balance,
nor,' added he, smiling, * your head.'

*What do you advise about firing? Shall I step
forward first, or stand where I am ?'

Well, my dear young friend, it is a fearful 



sensibility to advise you in such a matter. For the
Marchese is said to be a good shot, and if you wait for
his fire, you might be incapable of returning it. With
an ordinary marksman, I should certainly say, wait.
For if you stand still he cannot get nearer than twenty
paces, which is a long distance to hit ; and then, when
he has discharged his pistol, you can measure your
ten paces forward in cool blood. But with Delia
Kocca I would not advise — I cannot — I dare not !'

Very well,' said Ronald ; ' I understand perfectly.
Who are the other two gentlemen ?'

Doctors, caro mio —-just as a matter of precaution.
Not that they will be wanted, of course.'

Stomello now stepped up.

Are you ready, Rinaldo ?' he asked.

Quite,' answered "Ronald.

Wait a minute !' cried the Colonel. ' Let us look
at your dress. That coat must be buttoned up to the
neck, and the shirt collar turned down. No Avhite

must be visible. That is right. Now, my friend, good
courage, and God be with you 1'

Stornello grasped his hand silently, and the two led
him forward. There was not much to choose in the
stations. A single ray of the horizontal sun pierced
the thicket, and sent a broad band of yellow light
across the grass about ten paces in front of the pool ;
otherwise the whole glade was in soft grey shadow.
Stornello and Guarini drew lots for places. Guarini
won, and elected to place his man near the chestnut-tree,
which had the advantage of being a little higher
than the other end. The distance was carefully measured
by Martini and Delia Rocca's other second;
then the doctors retired to the edge of the brushwood,
and the two adversaries were walked off with their
backs to each other. The Colonel placed the pistol
in Ronald's hand, and gave it a final clasp as he
did so.

Corregio,' he whispered. Then he went quickly to

the centre, for, as the oldest man present, he had been
asked to give the signal.

Are you ready, gentlemen ?' he asked loudly.

Yes,' said Ronald in English.

Pronto,' came from under the old chestnut.

Then, ' Avant, signori !'

Ronald turned quickly, following instructions, and
protecting his body with his arm, he aimed his pistol
straight at Delia Rocca. The latter moved swiftly
forward. He took the ten paces in barely five seconds,
but in that short time all Ronald's previous life seemed
to come before him.

God bless and preserve my mother and father !' he
whispered, and then came a violent sharp pain in his
right leg, as if a huge knife had been plunged into
him. He scarcely heard the report which followed.
He sank down on his knee, and saw that the doctors
were rushing forward. But in a second he had regained
his presence of mind. He waved them back with his

left hand, and, by a tremendous effort of will, rose to
his feet.

A moment, signori !' he cried ; ' it is merely a
scratch.'

Then he slowly advanced the wounded leg, and
again raised the barrel of his pistol. He watched
Delia Rocca. The young man was pale as death,
almost livid. Even Ronald could see him tremble.
He still stood guarding his body with his right arm,
but his now useless pistol had fallen on the grass
beside him. Four more paces, and Ronald reached
the ray of sunlight. It lit up his brown hair, and
cast a halo over his pale face. It glanced on the
barrel of the pistol, and was reflected in his sparkling
eyes. It showed a small, red stream trickling slowly
down from his side on to the green grass. Then he
stepped again into the shadow, his lips firmly set, his
teeth clenched, and a look of sternness on his countenance
which none had seen before. He carefully

counted the ten paces, and then stopped, while the
seconds were motionless with anxiety and horror.
Very steadily and very slowly he raised his pistol till
it covered his adversary between the eyes.

Delia Rocca was shaking like an aspen; but the
pistol followed his movements, and the gallant Don
Juan of the previous evening, resplendent in huge
collars, satin facings, and orders, now looked a very
different object. His partners would not have recognised
their handsome admirer in that shrunken
trembling figure. The Marchese's eyes were fixed
with a stony glare on the barrel, so near him now,
and so fatally steady. The Italian fancied that he
could almost look down it.

Now it is quite impossible to miss him !' thought
Ronald. * In another second the scoundrel's brains

will be blown out.'

* ^^ * *

Bah r he suddenly said. ' Why should I kill
him V

And he fired the pistol into the air, and sank down
on the grass exhausted. Delia Rocca's face changed
as if by magic. In a moment he was himself again,
receiving the congratulations of his seconds. The
doctors meanwhile were busy with Ronald, and their
verdict was awaited by Stornello and Martini with
terrible anxiety. The old Colonel's cheeks were wet
with tears, while Stornello grasped Ronald's hand and
bid him be of good cheer. The surgeons cut off a
portion of his clothes, and examined the wound. It
was a fearfully painful moment, and Ronald nearly
fainted. Restoratives were administered, and after
five dreadful minutes the elder of the medical men
spoke.

The bullet has entered the fleshy part of the thigh,
and of course the sinews are all lacerated and several
small veins are cut. But I do not apprehend any
danger. It will be a long and painful time for the
signer, but with care he will be quite restored. We

cannot well extract the bullet here. The operation
must be performed at the signore's home at Portino.
Meanwhile we have stopped the bleeding.'

Soon the bandages were complete, and the assistant
went to arrange one of the carriages for the sufferer.
Meanwhile some consultation had taken place between
Delia Rocca and his seconds. Martini had anxiously
waited for the surgeon's verdict, and then reported it
to the Marchese, who had returned to the chestnut-tree.
After some conversation the two stepped forward,
their principal following a few steps behind.

Signori, we wish to declare, on behalf of the Marchese
della Rocca, that Mr. Lascelles has borne himself
like a true galantuomo, and such is emphatically
our opinion. The Marchese will be glad to hear that
Mr. Lascelles is satisfied.'

Ask the Marchese to come nearer,' whispered
Ronald from his recumbent position on the grass.

Delia Rocca came up to him.

Marchese said Ronald, in a clear voice, ' you
have had a narrow escape to-day. Take care not to
pollute the ears of honest English girls again. They
generally have brothers or friends to protect tliem^
and give people like you a bastonata. Actio.'

Then he turned his face away and fainted. But the
Marchese had gone quickly, and knew it not. Before
the enemy Ronald had borne himself bravely.

WHAT THE STENTS SAID.

My dear Clara,' said George Stent to his wife one
evening when he returned from the City, 'do you
think you are strong enough to hear some very strange
news V

Of course I am, George !' replied his wife, who was
lying comfortably on the sofa in what had formerly
been Ronald's study. ' What is it ?'

I have received a letter from your father — a very
remarkable letter V

Is anybody ill ? Oh tell me at once, George, and
don't keep me in suspense with all this preface and
preparation !' exclaimed Clara, the Lascelles' blood
asserting itself as she sat up.

No one is ill — that is, your brother Ronald is not
quite well. But there is nothing to be alarmed at
Do not excite yourself, Clara. Think how bad it is for
you in your present condition.'

I shall be very bad if you don't tell me, George,
instead of making all this fuss. What is the matter T

Clara, if you are not quiet, I shall not be able to
tell you at all. Nothing is the matter — that is,
nothing that need frighten you. It is of course annoying,
very annoying. But you are scarcely in a tit
condition to hear it.'

His wife jumped up from the sofa.

Give me the letter and have done with it, or you
will drive me out of my senses. I am sure Ronald is
very ill, perhaps dead !'

No, dear, indeed not,' replied Mr. Stent, not yet
forced out of his calmness ; ' but he has behaved very
badly. He has fought a duel'

Clara had not yet entirely verified Stent senior's

prophecy. She was still not thoroughly imbued with
the views and opinions of the clan. She asked
anxiously :

Was he hurt — seriously hurt ? I hope he killed
the other man.'

My dear, you should really think of what you are
going to say ! I am thankful to be able to inform you
that the " other man," as you term him, was unhurt,
and that your brother has a slight flesh wound which
will confine him to the sofa for a few weeks, but is of
no serious importance.'

Is that really all ?' asked Clara. * Show me papa's
letter.'

Here it is,' replied her husband, handing it to her.
You see your father very judiciously wrote to me at
the office, for fear of startling sou in your present condition.'


Fudge !' was Clara's brief retort, as she eagerly
scanned the letter.

It was not a long one, and stated far less than the
reader already knows. Ronald, said Mr. Lascelles,
was reported to have quarrelled with an Italian nobleman
in the card-room at the Club, and by the custom
of the country, the matter had to be settled by a duel.
Eonald had been wounded, but was progressing favourably.
His mother and sister were nursing him, and
there was no cause for alarm. With fatherly pride,
Mr. Lascelles added that his son was much praised for
his generosity in firing into the air when his adversary
was disarmed. Then followed a few details of the
wound, and the treatment. The Consul wound up by
expressing some anxiety lest Ronald should fail
to obtain an extension of his leave of absence, and
begged Mr. Stent to see the chief of his office on his
behalf, and to place the case before him, without
of course mentioning the cause of Ronald's illness,
and he enclosed a letter to the chief from himself.


Poor Mr. Lascelles could not have applied to a less
sympathetic ambassador.

What folly I' exclaimed Mr. George Stent. ' Really,
Clara, I am surprised at your father. I should have
thought that at his age he would know better !'

What has poor papa done V asked Clara.

Done ? Why he actually seems to encourage
Ronald in his dissipated and violent conduct. A
quarrel over cards at some club, in the middle of the
night. A nice thing, truly, for an English gentleman
to be involved in. And he wants me to speak for
him — to take him under my protection, in fact. I am
to go to Somerset House and intercede for a gambler
and a bravo !'

George, how can you use such dreadful words
about poor Ronald !'

My dear Clara, they are quite justifiable,' answered
Mr. Stent, angrier than he had ever been in his life
before, and the more disturbed that he was asked to

interfere on behalf of his disreputable brother-in-law.


Then he took up the Consul's letter again, and
looked through it carefully.

As your father says, " Ronald is reported to have
quarrelled with an Italian nobleman in the card-room,"
very likely they quarrelled about something
besides cards,' remarked Mr. Stent with great acuteness.
' People don't go and shoot each other on
account of a dispute over cards, even in Italy. /
never had a quarrel while I was there, though they
took me into all their clubs.'

I dare say not,' replied Clara. ' But then you are
older than Ronald, and no doubt wiser.'

I should hope so,' assented her husband. ' I
never was such a fool as Ronald, thank God, and none
of us were ever silly enough to risk our lives for some
trumpery rubbish. Clara dear,' he added, after a
pause, 'do you feel well enough to drive round to

VOL. I. 11

John's after dinner? I should Hke to consult him
about this matter.'

Clara was not in the humour to fall in with Stent
ways this evening.

No,' she replied decisively ; ' I don't. Go there by
yourself.'

My darling,' replied George, ' I could not think
of leaving you alone in your present delicate condition.
I will send round to see if they can come here.'

And he rang the bell.

Now Clara knew what ' they ' signified. It meant
John Stent and his wife, and William Stent and his
wife, and perhaps Stent senior. Though she had got
used to these people, and had almost become one of
them, she did not care to hear her brother's
conduct discussed in solemn conclave. Wherefore
she said :

Very well, George. But don't expect me to comedown.
I am too tired.'

Eliza shall keep you company, my child replied
George. ' You are quite right not to exert yourself.*
Then he despatched messages and notes to rouse his
clansmen.

Clara did not seem particularly pleased at the prospect
of Eliza's company. This lady, an unmarried
sister of George's, Yeas, like all the other m embers of
her family, very good, very pious, and very regular
in her habits. But she was not exactly lively. It was,
however, very difficult for Clara to tell her husband
that his sister sometimes bored her. Mr. Stent would
not have shown anger — he very seldom did — but he
would have been very deeply grieved, and Clara knew
that if she once uttered such an heresy she would
never hear the last of it in the shape of hints from
George, and gentle complaints that his Avise could not
hit it off with his own people, quiet moans over the
loss of his sister's companionship, and sincere hopes
that poor Eliza's feelings where not much hurt. She

11—2

was afraid of the consequences of speaking, and therefore
held her peace.

The moment the dessert was on the table she retired
to her boudoir, and in a very few minutes the clansmen
began to arrive. With his invariable courtesy, George
went out into the passage to meet his relations, as the
successive carriages stopped at the door. The greeting
was invariably the same :

What is wrong, George ? Surely not Clara '

For the impression had gone abroad that possibly the
expected baby might have come too soon.

George always answered sadly, with a significant
pressure of the hand :

No, Clara is all right ; but she wants to be quiet
to-night. Come into the dining-room, and you shall
hear all about it. Perhaps Jane will be kind enough
to sit in the drawing-room for the present ?'

Soon John, William, Mr. Stent senior, and Mr.
William C. Stent were assembled round the dining-table,

while Jane, Mary, and Susan wondered together,
in the first-floor, what it was all about, and * hoped
the gentlemen ' would soon come up and tell
them.

Downstairs George solemnly pulled out Mr. Las-celles'
letter, and handed it first to his father. From
Stent senior it passed on to John Stent ; then William
Stent read it in silence ; and finally it reached William
C. Stent. !Mean while George quietly passed the claret
and courteously pressed each member of his family to
take a glass.

Now you have all read this extraordinary letter
said he solemnly, when William C. Stent had folded it
up and returned it, 'what course should I pursue
under the circumstances ? I have asked you here to
take your advice on the subject, and shall, as a matter
of course, follow that advice.'

I perceive, George,' said Mr. Stent senior, * that
Mr. Lascelles (who, by-the-by, appears to me to be a

rather weak father) does not seem very sure of the
cause of this unfortunate quarrel.'

'I noticed that came from his sons and his
nephew.

Yon all know young Ronald Lascelles/ said George ;
he is a wild young fool, capable of any sort of extravagance.'


A pleasant sort of young man, too William C.
ventured to observe.

Very pleasant ! oh yes ; no one denies that !*
chimed in the eldest.

But rather unreliable, eh ?' suggested John.
Entirely,' assented George.

Altogether unsteady ?' asked the father.

I should think so,' again said George.

Quite irregular in his habits ?' inquired William.

Oh, dreadfully !' assented Ronald's brother-in-law.
He was here for more than a year, and I know all
about him

It was very good of you to have him observed
Mr. Stent senior.

Very,' chorused the others.

Then he is not likely to get on V asked
William C.

No answer was vouchsafed to so idle a question. A
smile of contempt only played on the lips of the clansmen.


Does he pay his bills V asked Stent father.

No — at least, not all of them. Some come for him
here now replied George.

I feared as much muttered the old gentleman; with
a groan. ' He is a bad lot.'

There was a responsive sigh from the whole company.


George, however, wanted some more positive
instructions.

What am I to do V he asked. ' If I refuse, I should
quarrel with my father-in-law.'

'Never leave a quarrel in the family,' observed John
sententiously.

Exactly so,' said George ; ' I want to avoid
one.'

Then they consulted and discussed. Could George
conscientiously interfere on behalf of a young man so
utterly lost to every sense of propriety? John and
William held that he could not. Mr. Stent senior and
William C. were inclined to think that, notwithstanding
Ronald's undoubted wickedness, regard for the
credit of a connection (' only a connection, mind,' observed
the old gentleman) was a sufficient reason for
assisting him in the way suggested. Perhaps there
was in the mind of the younger man some faint recollection
of youthful escapades which had remained
unknown and undiscovered, but of which the consciousness
inclined him to leniency, while Mr. Stent
senior thought of a disreputable old uncle, the only
black sheep in the clan for three generations, who was

pensioned off in a distant French, town on condition
of never troubling them more.

Unanimity was always the aim of the Stent family ;
wherefore, after spending an hour over the dining-table
without arriving at it, they adjourned to the
drawing-room to discuss the matter afresh with the
assistance of Mary, Susan, and Jane. Eliza, being unmarried,
was not summoned to the council, ' for
whispered George, ' there might be a woman in the
case, you know, and girls ought not to know anything
about that sort of thing.'

The fair sex always inclines to gentle measures
Avhen the culprit is 3^oung and good-looking. Ronald
had been polite and nice even to such tremendous
bores as Susan and Mary. Jane was more than he
could stand, and she had been mortally offended at
his refusing to join the fortnightly family dinner at her
house, after having borne it six times. So Jane joined
her husband William and her brother-in-law John in

recommending a courteous but decided refusal, which
would of course be followed by the formal and official
exclusion of Ronald from the Stent family. He
should be to them as if he had never existed. Young-men
who got into debt and fought duels were not fit
company for pious and reputable English households.
But Jane and her allies were in the minority.
George inclined to the opposition in order not to-grieve
his wife, so it was finally decided by five votes,
to three that George should write to Mr. Lascelles^
expressing regret at his son's wound, and promising to
see the chief of the office at Somerset House immediately.


But it was understood that the ambassador was not
justified in telling any falsehoods, and must, therefore
if pressed to do so, state the cause of Ronald's illness-what

THEY SAID AT PORTING.

Of course in a place like Portino the duel could not
remain long a secret. On the morning after it had
taken place the police were instructed to prevent it,
and the outskirts were carefully patrolled all days
Only in the afternoon did the Prefect hear that it was
all over, and that as nobody was killed, and nobody
feared another breach of the peace, there was nothing
now to do.

This active and zealous officer, who had been
appointed to his post for the same reasons that most
other officials in Italy obtain theirs, namely, that he
had a ' good friend ' in power somewhere, was much

«:rieYed at the news having: reached him so late, and
would probably even now have arrested the only man
he could get hold of — Delia Kocca having at once left
b}' steamer — if he had not discovered that Ronald was
inter the roof of the British Consul. So the flag
saved the wounded hero from a certain amount of
worry

"When Mrs. Lascelles had overcome the first shock
of alarm, she arranged matters as sensibly and as
calmly as any woman could. What was to be feared
was fever, for the patient was nervous and excitable.
They therefore engaged a nurse to assist in watching
him at night, while Teresina, Mrs. Lascelles herself,
and old Line would do the rest.

Quiet was the chief medicine required to restore
Ronald to health and strength. The doctors prohibited
his talking more than was absolutely necessary,
and no one was allowed to worry him with questions.
Eut Count Stornello and Colonel Martini, who called

daily to inquire, were severely cross-examined by the
anxious parents. They had to give a full account of
the duel, which of course they did most willingly, not
forgetting to dwell on Ronald's pluck in bearing fearful
pain like a Spartan. But they were also repeatedly
pressed as to the cause of the duel. As long as the
two were at the Consulate together, they stuck manfully
to the story about a quarrel over cards ; but when
the next day Stornello called alone to see his friend,
Mrs. Lascelles was waiting for him in the antechamber.
She made him come into her drawing-room, and there
coaxed, flattered, soothed, and exercised all those wiles
which only women can practise, in order to find out
the real reason of the duel.

Rumours of a slight disturbance at the Palazzo
Donati had that morning reached her ears ; and she
had therefore something to go upon. Poor Stornello
grew terribly uncomfortable under her scrutinizing
glance, his natural truthfulness having to be set aside

by his sense of loyalty. Bit by bit she wormed the
truth out of him, and he left the Consulate in a very
depressed frame of mind, to go and confess to the
Colonel that he had betrayed all.

When Stornello had sadly and humbly taken his
leave, Mrs. Lascelles rejoiced greatly. She had known
better than her son himself how much he loved that
girl ! Could there be a doubt about it now ? Of
course not ! Men did not risk their lives for young
ladies who were indifferent to them. Out of evil good
would come. If, as she fully believed, her son soon
regained his health and strength, she would consider
this duel the most fortunate event that could have
happened. For of course now, not only must Edith
be madly in love with him, but Mr. Woodall could not
decently refuse to do all in his power for his daughter's
brave champion. And a flush of real pride rose to
her face as she thought of her son's courage and noble
forbearance. In these reflections she was disturbed

by Mr. Lascelles, who came up from his office to inquire
how his son was getting on. When she had
satisfied him on this score she said :

This is a most fortunate occurrence, Robert, if we
look at it in its proper light !'

How so, my dear ? I should have thought it was
most unfortunate ! Ronald's leave expires next week;
he was to leave us on Monday. Dr. Salviati says he
cannot be moved from his bed for at least a fortnight,
and will not be able to travel for weeks. I must say
I think it deuced unlucky ! Of course, the boy may
not have been able to help it, but he was certainly
prejudiced against that Delia Rocca to begin
with !'

*My dear Robert,' answered his wife, when she
obtained a chance of putting a word in, ' I am thinking
of much more important matters than Ronald's
leave of absence.'

I do not see how anything can be more important

jtist now. They gave him three months, which is a
very great deal for a junior clerk, and I don't think
they will extend it ; certainly not if the cause of his
illness is known. I have just written to Stent to ask
him to see Mr. Charteris, the chief of the office at
Somerset House.'

Never mind Somerset House, Robert. Our boy
can do better than earn a hundred and twenty a year
as junior clerk.'

* I wish I saw my way to something better for him !*
said Mr. Lascelles, with a sigh.

- ' You dear blind old Robert ! Don't you see that
he is over head and ears in love with Edith Woodland
that he fought this duel because he was jealous of
that Italian's attentions to her V
^ '^ ^ Whew !' whistled the Consul. ' How do you know
all that ?'

I have made Count Stornello confess all about it.
He knew a good deal, and anyone can guess the rest,*

replied Mrs. Lascelles. ' Stornello admits that the
quarrel at the Club was all nonsense — a got-up thing,
in fact, to prevent Edith being talked about by all the
young men in Portino.'

Well, I must confess that I was much surprised to
hear of Ronald quarrelling over cards,' said the Consul.
^ I have never known him gamble, and I should have
heard of it soon enough if he had done so at the Club.
In fact, 1 was much more vexed about that than about
the duel.'

Don't worry any more about it, Robert. He does
not gamble. I don't believe he touches a card once a
month. I understood just now from Stornello that he
was jealous of the Marchese's great attention to Edith
Woodall, and interfered somehow to prevent it. I
would not make out exactly what he did, and I don't
think the Count himself quite knew. But at any rate
Signer della Rocca insulted Ronald, and he had to
hight.'

VOL. I. 12

That is a very different story !' remarked Mr.
Lascelles. ' Now I begin to understand !'

It is about time you did !' exclaimed his wife.
Fancy accusing our poor boy of gambling !'

But urged the Consul, ' I don't see how that mends
matters. It is only another trouble for the lad. His
heart is touched, poor fellow, as well as his leg, that is
all. And I fancy the leg will be cured soonest.'

/ don't agree with you,' said his wife, smiling.

Why not ? What is your opinion, dear ?'

Why, you old goose !' she exclaimed, ' you stick
in the office all day, and never see anything, and when
you do creep out of your hole you sit down to your
stupid rubber, and know nothing of what goes on ;
otherwise you could not have helped noticing.'

Noticing what ?' asked Mr. Lascelles.

Why, that Edith Woodall is quite as fond of the
boy as he is of her ! I know her well — we have both
known her ever since she was a baby. She is not a

bit of a flirt, but as good and sensible a creature as
ever lived '

Well V

^ Well, if it had been any other girl I should have
declared that she flirted outrageously with Ronald. '-

Oh ! just at one dance !' observed Mr. Lascelles.

No, not at this one dance only. Ever since Ronald
has been here this time they have been constantly
together, and the girl is evidently as pleased with his
company as he is with hers. Trust a mother's eyes,
Robert ! They always see better than a man's in such
matters !'

Yery possibly you are right, dear. But supposing
it were so, I don't think Woodall would let his girl
marry Ronald.'

I do, then,' replied Mrs. Lascelles. ' In fact I am
sure he would have consented, even without this duel.
But don't you see how this helps the matter on ?
Why, without any of our doing, all Portino will be

12—2

talking about it tomorrow, and Ronald will be the
hero of the day. He was wounded in defence of
Edith ! Think what an effect that must have. Why,
Woodall would be a brute if he refused his consent
inter such circumstances, and then, of course,
Ronald's fortune is made.'

'Woodall has certainly always told me,' said the
Consul reflectively, ' that he intended to go back to
England as soon as he could get a suitable man to
take his place here, and that if his daughter's
choice fell on such a man, he would be very
pleased.*

Well, and can he have a better one than Ronald f
asked his mother. * Everybody likes him ; he knows
Portino as well as Woodall himself, and he speaks
Italian like a native.'

'But he has not got sixpence,' objected Mr.
Lascelles.

The Woodalls have enough for all,' retorted his

wife. ' It seems to me as clear as noonday. Nothing
could be more suitable, and we should have Ronald
and his wife settled happily here close to us.'

Are you quite sure, dear, that the young people
are fond of each other ?' asked the Consul again, still
believing that his wife's statement of the case was too
good to be true.

I have been quite certain about Edith for sometime,
and now I am quite sure of Ronald as well,*
replied Mrs. Lascelles. ' He has had some foolish misgivings
about not loving her enough to marry
her '

'• Then you have spoken to him on the subject V

Oh ses ! before the duel. The poor boy is not
allowed to talk now. He was afraid he did not love
her as much as she deserved, and all that sort of thing.
Every word proved to me that he was extremely fond
of her, and now, of course, I can have no doubt whatever.
'

Well, dear, possibly you are right. Indeed, now
you have shown me the matter in a new light, I hope
you are,' said the Consul. ' Shall I say anything at
present ?'

Not a word, you old goose,' answered Mrs. Las-celles,
kissing him; 'you would only spoil everything.
Just hold your tongue, and don't interfere.
Men always make a mess of these things.'

Mr. Lascelles nodded good-humouredly.

All right,' he said.

And thus another mesh was added to the net which
was soon to hem Ronald in on all sides.

His mother's prophecy was a true one. Next day
Ronald was the hero of the English colony and of
Portino. The Italian doctors, accustomed to the dash
of their fellow-countrymen which is at once destroyed
by the sight of blood, talked everywhere of the extraordinary
fortitude of the young Englishman, who,
though grievously wounded, had refused to give in,

It was first told to one of the clerks over the
counter, but scarcely believed. Then another customer
confirmed it ; then, as it happened, Stornello
came in with a cheque, and the cashier took the
liberty to ask him about the matter. All the
clerks gathered round to listen, and other customers

had to wait, which, being Italians and therefore fond
of gossip, they did not mind at all.

The head clerk invented some excuse to go .
Woodall's room, and there imparted the astounding
information to his principal. The latter at once
came out from his sanctum and dragged Stornello into
hear the tale from his own lips. But the young
Count, fresh from his interview with Mrs. Lascelles,.
was determined to be very careful this time, and
mentioned a quarrel at cards as the cause of the
duel.

Oh, dear !' said Mr. Woodall quite sadly ; ' I am
sorry to hear that the young man gambles.'

He never gambles, signore !' exclaimed Stornello
hotly.

'But you say this was a quarrel over cards,* remarked
the banker, rather surprised at Stornello's
vehemence.

Quite a chance, signore — an unfortunate chance.

Kinalcio religiously abstains from cards at the Casino.
I have never seen him play there before !'

Oh !' said Mr. Woodall, a little puzzled.

But, of course, being far less interested than Mr.
Lascelles, he did not cross-examine his informant. All
he did was to send a friendly note of inquiry to the
Consulate, hoping that Ronald's wound was progressing
favourably. And he went home to dinner a little
sooner than usual. Edith, as was her wont, met him
in the corridor when she heard his step. When he
told her what had occurred, she suddenly turned pale
and seized a table with her hand. Mr. Woodall was.
quite frightened.

What is it, darling V he exclaimed. ' I had no idea it
would alarm you so. Young Lascelles is, I understand,
getting on very well indeed. You need not be so put outs

Tell me all about it, father,' she said. ' It was
foolish of me, but the news rather upset me. I
thought of poor Mrs. Lascelles.'

This was probably the first story the girl had ever
told, and as she told it the blood, which had deserted
her face, cane rushing back till her very forehead and
neck were suffused with blushes. Mr. Woodall led
her back into the room, and noticed that she was still
trembling.

My poor child !' he said, ' don't be frightened ;
there is really nothing to distress you.'

But there was more than Mr. Woodall supposed.
At every moment she expected him to say that Ronald
had fought for her sake. For Edith, with the quick
instinct of budding love, had at once guessed why
Ronald had fought this duel. He had exposed his
life for her, to shield her from the insolence of the
Marchese ! He need not have done it, she thought ;
the Marchese was hardly even disagreeable, and there
was no cause to take serious steps. But how noble of
him ! Only when her father told the whole story, she
became quieter. For Ronald had been so thoughtful

as to keep her out of it altogether, so that no one but
herself could possibly guess the real reason of the
encounter. How truly generous and brave ! When
Mr. Woodall remarked that the lad appeared to have
been hasty, and had no business to have quarrelled
over cards, her blue eyes sparkled, and she exclaimed,
Oh, I am sure he never played cards, papa !' which
made Mr. Woodall ask sharply ' What she knew about
it ?' So that she blushed again, and stammered very
foolishly. But then the banker went on to say that
young Lascelles seemed to have behaved very pluckily,
and also quite handsomely, and poor Edith blushed
again, though this time with pleasure. She could not
help murmuring, ' He is very good,' which Mr. Wood-all
considered rather a singular comment on the affair.
And when he had done his story, she asked him so
many questions about it that he ^ could not reply
to them, and advised her to go and see Mrs.
Lascelles after dinner. As this was exactly what

Edith herself wished, she agreed without much
demur.

Ronald's friends at Portino evidently did not take
the same view of the duel as his connections in
London.

THE maiden's secret.

Edith was shown into the empty drawing-room.
The signorina is not very well,' said Luisa, as she
departed to announce the visitor to Mrs. Lascelles.

Soon Teresina opened the door, and the girls flew
into each other's arms.

How is he ?' asked Edith. ' What a dreadful
thing !'

'Oh, dear!' replied Teresina, bursting into tears.
He is not nearly so well to-night. They have to put
ice on his head and on his poor leg.'

Edith felt herself turning very pale.

What is the matter ?' she asked.

Fever, they say answered Teresina, between her
sobs. 'Oh, Edith dear, if you knew how good he
was ! Darling Konald !'

I know he was very kind and nice,' said Edith,
who would have Heed to cry also, and thought that
her words sounded very cold and unsympathetic.

You can't know ! How should you V cried the
young girl almost angrily. ' You are not his sister.
But you are fond of him, are you not ?' she asked
innocently.

Edith turned scarlet again, and looked into the
4 tear-stained face of her friend scrutinizingly. The
troubled but transparent gaze reassured her. Teresa,
at any rate, had not guessed, her secret.

'Of course I like him very much !' she answered,
kissing the girl, ' as I like you all — particularly you,
dearest.'

Things were progressing rapidly ; for this was the
second story Edith had told in one evening. Teresina

returned her friend's kiss unsuspiciously and went
on:

'Fancy, dear; he actually took me and young
Signer Donati out for a sail in the yacht ! Oh, I was
so horribly wicked !'

Wicked, my darling 1' exclaimed Edith ; ' why what
on earth do you mean ?'

How could I guess that dear, brave Ronald had
to fight a duel ? And his nasty, cross, selfish sister
actually worried him to stop out longer, and chattered
to him all the time. How mad he must have felt !'

When did he take you out ?' asked Edith eagerly,
scarcely understanding Teresina's self-reproaches.

Why, yesterday — the very day of the duel!*
replied the young girl. ' Only think ! He knew he
was going to fight that horrid Marchese, and instead
of spending his time with his friends, he actually
devoted it all to poor naughty me I'

How nice of him !'

Nice I You call everything nice, Edith. It may
he a proper word, but / think it very cold. It was
heroic ! Why, a few hours later he had to fight for his
life ! And I made him wretched by worrying ! And
do you know, Edith,' here she lowered her voice to a
whisper, ' I almost cried because he was so determined
to go home, and thought it so unkind of him.^

But, my poor pet, you knew nothing at all about
it !' said Edith consolingly.

Of course I did not I I should have told papa
directly, and he would have stopped it,' exclaimed
Teresina. ' Oh dear ! it is all my fault,' she went on ;
if I had been a clever, sensible girl I should have
seen that poor Ronald had something on his mind,
and I should have got it all out of him !' Then the
sobs began afresh.

Edith was burning to ask for details as to the
sufferer's condition, and the prospects of its improving.
But poor Teresina was not able to give them. Fresh

tears and cries of despair were all that Edith could
elicit from her. At last Luisa came in, bringing some
tea ; and when she saw the pale, anxious faces of the
girls, she exercised the authority of an old servant and
walked Teresina off, apologizing with native grace ibr
the poor reception Edith had had.

Very sadly did the latter walk home, leaning on
Marietta's arm. Then she retired at once to her
room. Ronald was very ill. He might die; and if he
died, she, Edith Woodall, had caused his death. She
tried to think what the future would be without
Ronald. She was surprised to find how great a part
Ronald played in her own life. He had not been
much at Portino until recently, and yet everything
she now cared about seemed connected with him
somehow. She could not think of even such a orifices
croquet without Ronald. The game she thought
herself so fond of (it was then in the height of its
popularity) would be rubbish if he were not there.

VOL. I. 13

And how wicked now to let her thoughts dwell on
croquet, while Ronald was groaning on a sick-bed,
wounded nigh unto death for her sake ! She bitterly
repented having danced so often with Delia Rocca.
Of course if she had not given the Marchese any encouragement
Ronald would not have quarrelled with
him. How dreadful of her! And she had been so
flippant when he had spoken to her about the Italian.
No Wonder the poor fellow was angry.

Suddenly she felt herself blush at a thought that
struck her. Was Ronald fond of her ? She knew he
had fought for her, and for her sake only ; so much
was certain. But was he very fond of her as well ? or
did he only fight because he did not like to see an
English girl, an old friend, persecuted by disagreeable
attentions ? In a tumult of emotion at the vista thus
opened up, Edith could not for some time collect her
faculties to reason the matter out. She was an eminently
sensible girl, and she would not be carried



away by a silly fancy. She would think it over calmly
-and logically. Did men generally fight duels for girls
they did not care about ? She thought not. At any
rate it was not usual. On the other hand, it had been
for centuries understood and accepted that lovers
should draw the sword in defence of their lady-loves.
Certainly, then, it appeared probable that Ronald did
care a little. A little ! And then it flashed across
her that he must have cared enough to risk his life,
-and that that precious life was still in peril. AVhat
mattered it, then, whether he loved her or not if he
was going to die ? Die, because she chose to flirt with
an Italian Marchese ! How she hated that Italian.
-She would have strangled him with her own slender
lingers if he had been within her reach. And now
she could do nothing but wait and pray. She could
not even help to nurse Ronald ; it would not be considered
proper. Oh! if she could only just do one
little thing for him, if she were only allowed to run

13—2

errands and carry messages, what a relief it would be \
But lie must not betray her secret ; she must not let
anyone suspect the real cause of the duel ! She would
never hold up her head again in Portino if it were
known ! For of course they would all blame her, and
justly too, and say that she had gone on dreadfully
with the Marchese, and make matters out even worse
than they were; for Portino was a gossiping place.
They would whisper about her everywhere, and say
that the gallant young man had fought for a very
unworthy object.

She was very miserable during the long hours of
that night. Even if Ronald recovered, she felt that
she would never be her own self again. Probably he
despised her, and had only fought for her as a matter
of duty. He was right to despise her ; she knew she
was quite unworthy of him. He had spent several
years in London, and had gone everywhere, and had
seen the most attractive and charming ladies in England

; and she was quite a plain provincial, getting her
fashions at second-hand, and knowing nothing of the
irreat world in which Ronald had moved. Of course

o

he had seen and could see nothing in her except an old
friend. He was good and kind to her, and had
spoken very sweetly at the fatal dance, but then that
was Ronald's way! He was such a dear fellow, so
bright and pleasant, and always ready to oblige everyone,
and anxious to please. And now, of course, whenever
he felt a pang from his wound he would think
that she had caused it, and would not only despise her,
but hate her altogether. She would deserve it all.
She would look after her father's house, and would
leave off going out, and not care about anything, and
certainly, oh certainly, never marry. Of course not,
that was out of the question.

At last her weary eyes closed, and her hot head
found rest on the pillow moist with tears. Mr.
Woodall was quite shocked at her appearance

next morning. Never had his daughter looked so-pale,
and Edith required colour to make her attractive.
To-day she had dark rims under her dim eyes, her
cheeks were quite white, and — dreadful though true —
her nose was red. It has already been mentioned
that Edith's nose was larger than the conventional nose
of a heroine in a novel. If she has thereby lost tho
reader's sympathy it is her misfortune, not the fault of
the accurate story-teller.

What is the matter, Edith ?' asked the banker
anxiously ; ' you look quite ill.'

Nothing particular, papa,' she answered. ' I was
rather upset last night at the Consulate ; that is;
all'

Marietta told me that Konald Lascelles was
feverish,' said Mr. Woodall, ' but that ought not to
upset you, Edith.'

Put in so simple and plain a form, it certainly
ought not to have affected Edith's appearance. But

her woman's wit was equal to the emergency, and she
was able, this time, to confine herself pretty well within
the bounds of truth :

Poor little Teresina was so dreadfully cut up,' she
said, ' and did nothing but cry and sob and reproach
herself for having gone out sailing with Ronald
Lascelles.'

And at the recollection Edith herself could scarcely
repress her tears. She choked them down, however,
and busied herself with making tea, and generally
attending on her father, and then she endeavoured to
talk of other matters till Mr. Woodall took up. his
Gazette di Portino, and began to scan its meagre
columns. Then she hid behind the urn, and pretended
to eat, but did little else than cut her roll into
small pieces, take them up and put them down again.
Mr. Woodall occasionally looked up from his paper.
Evidently the news did not interest him as much as
usual. He watched his daughter closely.

You are not eating anything, Edith he remarked
abruptly.

I am not hungry, papa dear

What is the matter with you ?' asked the banker
almost impatiently. * I shall send for Salviati.'

Please not, papa ; I assure you it is nothing !'

But you look like a ghost, and you have not eaten
even a scrap of bread and butter. There is your egg
untouched.'

I can't eat, papa dear. I shall be better by-and-by.'


There is nothing like nipping a complaint in the
bud, my child,' answered Mr. Woodall. ' I'll send for
the doctor, and he'll tell us whether you're going to
have anything the matter with you

Really pleaded Edith piteously, ' there is nothing
wrong. I have not slept well, and I was dreadfully
shocked last night about all this '

'That's all very well,' interrupted Mr. Woodall;

but you ought to have got over it by this time.
Young men have fought duels before now, and you
did not look like death when you heard about it.
Now be a good girl, and drink some tea at once.'

Mr. Woodall had spoken throughout in a good-natured
tone, and his words sounded far kinder than
they may appear in print. But his persistence and his
curious glances alarmed Edith. She drank some tea,
ibid tried to take a spoonful of Pigg.

That's right, Edith,' said her father encouragingly.

After all, you know, the young man is no relation,
though we have always been great friends with-the
Lascelles. I should be awfully sorry if anything were
to happen to him. Halloo !'

The exclamation was caused by Edith suddenly
raising her pocket-handkerchief to her eyes and
bursting into tears. In another moment she rushed
from the room with an inaudible apology.

Mr. Woodall put down his paper altogether. He

looked after her for a minute or two with a puzzled
solid expression. 'What is all this about?' thought
he. ' These are not Edith's ways. She is a sensible
girl, and does not indulge in hysterics, nor fainting fits,
nor any other female fads. There must be something
more behind it.' And Mr. Woodall resolved to watch
his daughter closely, and not to speak of the duel fora
day or two.

Perhaps old Marietta had a shrewd suspicion of
what was going on in her young mistress's heart. At
any rate Edith was not disturbed for an hour, after
which the old woman appeared with a cup of strong
beef tea. At first Edith declined to take it, but she
was soon bribed by the suggestion that perhaps, when
the signorina had taken it, she would feel strong
enough to walk along the Via Marina and inquire how
the ignoring cavaliers had passed the night.

It was strange how quickly that beef-tea restored
her. In less than ten minutes they were facing a

Strong sirocco, and trying to keep their umbrellas
steady to shelter them from the pelting showers. But,
wet and windy as it was, Edith stopped as they crossed
the market-place. The stalls were all turned to leeward,
and the women who had no stalls had taken
refuge under the columned portico of Santissima .
But there were flowers in abundance, all
the more for the warm spring showers. Disdaining
the artfully made-up bouquets, Edith bought a great
bunch of fragrant white roses, and then walked on
silently to the Consulate.

To-day she was not kept waiting long in the eftipt j
drawing-room. Mrs. Lascelles came in almost at once.
A glance at the mother's face, and the harrowing
anxiety disappeared from Edith's heart.

He is better !' she exclaimed, rushing forward.


Much better, my dear ! He is fast asleep ; he has
slept ever since two o'clock this morning. We are all

,so much relieved. Nothing but quiet is now necessary.'


Edith looked positively radiant.
I am so glad !' she said ; ' and — papa will be so
pleased.'

Then the two sat down and talked — Edith shy and
blushing, Mrs. Lascelles demonstrative and affectionate
— and after a short stay the girl rose, and,
pointing to her flowers, said :

Do you think he could bear the smell ?'
Why not, dear ?' asked Mrs. Lascelles. ' He is
extremely fond of roses, and I am sure when he wakes
he will be glad to see them by his side, and still more
pleased when he knows who sent them.'

But,' stammered Edith, ' don't say they came from
me !'

Very well,' answered Mrs. Lascelles, smiling ; ' 1
Avill tell him that Mr. Woodall sent them. He will
think it very kind of your father.'

The girl blushed again.

No, no !' she exclaimed, ' he knows that papa
would not send him flowers. Just put them in his
room and say nothing.'

Just as you please, dear,' Mrs. Lascelles said good-humouredly.
'And now good-bye; I am going to
look after my invalid.'

Edith bad her farewell, and kissed her. To her surprise
Mrs. Lascelles put an arm round her neck and
whispered :

I know why they fought, Edith dear. Your secret
is safe with me.' •

Then she pressed the girl's hands warmly, and
swiftly ascended the stairs, leaving her wondering and
scarlet.

Thus was another mesh woven of the net which was
to enclose Ronald in its trammels.

THE MESHES ARE WOVEN.

Mrs. Lascelles was the very best mother in a world
which is, fortunately for male mankind, full of good
mothers. She never lost her head for a moment
during Ronald's illness. She was ever watchful, but
never fussy. Everything was done that could be
done, and no precaution was neglected, and yet the
patient knew but little of all the trouble taken, and
was ignorant of the endless though individually trifling
measures adopted in obedience to the instructions of
the doctors. He was not only told ' not to worry ' —
an instruction so easy to give and so difficult for sick
men to obey — but every cause of worry was sedulously

removed. On the Monday following he should, according
to previous arrangement, have started for
London, and though of course it was impossible for
him even to leave his bed, on which a huge apparatus
protected the wounded limb from the slightest touch,
he became restless when the day arrived, and there
was a return of feverishness.

Do not be anxious, said Mrs. Lascelles, when she
noticed that his thin cheeks were flushed and his eyes
brighter than usual. ' Your father has arranged for
an extension of leave.'

Mrs. Lascelles was not absolutely correct-in her
.statement. No answer from Mr. Charteris had yet
4\r rived, and the Consul entertained serious doubts as
to the reception his request would meet with. But
she thought that it was her duty to her son to put
matters in the most favourable light possible. Visits
of inquiry and condolence had been numerous. Some
of the callers had been impelled by motives of curiosity,

and all would have been glad to be certain of
the real cause of the duel. It had been whispered
about in some quarters, and the gossips of Portino
even went so far as to say that the Marchese had
grossly insulted Miss Woodall in Ralph's hearing.
But then the gossips of Portino were not more careful
in their statements than those of other towns, wherefore
people would have been glad to know the truth
from Mrs. Lascelles herself.

That lady thought that she held the trump cards,
and was not in a hurry to play them. She evaded
most of the questions, and assumed an air of mystery
which only stimulated curiosity still further. When
Ronald was out of danger, she confided to a few chosen
female friends, under the strictest promise of secrecy,
that the real cause of the duel was Ronald's jealousy
of the Marchese's attentions to Edith Woodall. When
her friends asked, as they naturally did, whether the
young people were engaged, Mrs. Lascelles at once
said :

No ! certainly not ! But my boy undoubtedly
admires her very much. It is a pity that we are so
badly off ! I never regretted being poor so much as I
do now. He has not proposed to her, because she is
so rich. But of course this is quite strictly private.'

Of course the friendly gossip would reply, though
already debating whom she should first tell. Then,
after some sympathetic words from her friend, Mrs.
Woodall would go on :

You see, he is so proud. Everybody says he behaved
wonderfully on that dreadful day, under the
most trying circumstances. But he would not have
it said that he married Edith Woodall for her money.
It would kill him.'

Thus Mrs. Lascelles' chosen allies went away with
the conviction that Ronald was deeply in love with
Edith, and that the affection was mutual, but that the
young man was too high-minded to take advantage of
this circumstance. And as the matter was discussed

VOL. I. 14

by at least half a dozen ladies with closed doors, the
English colony knew all about it the next day. By
noonday Ronald was a greater hero than ever, and while
the ladies praised his nobility of character and his good
looks, the men called him a real brick, and thought
that he was almost too high-minded for a mercenary
world. On that morning even Mr. Woodall obtained
an inkling of what was going on. A
merchant on 'Change asked him very pointedly how
Miss Woodall was.

Yery well, thank you,' answered the banker ; and
as he was still preoccupied about her health, he added
quickly, ' Why should she be otherwise V

I thought this duel must have affected her much,*
replied the speaker, under the impression that Mr.
Woodall of course knew all about it.

Oh ! She was upset for the moment, but she is all
right now, thank you,' replied he.

I am glad to hear it. Please present my compliments,'

his friend went on innocently, 'it is not every
young lady who has so gallant a champion as Mr.
Lascelles. Good-day.'

Mr. Woodall stared after the departing merchant.
Suddenly he understood why Edith had been so
agitated, had lost her appetite, and had burst into
tears. Good heavens ! The young people were in
love with each other, and Ronald Lascelles had fought
the Marchese for the sake of his daughter !

Mr. Woodall walked home very thoughtfully. He
was serious, very serious, but he did not look cross
or angry. On the contrary, he spoke to his clerks ina
gentler tone than usual, and was more patient than
he generally was with a couple of importunate idlers
who gained admittance into his back room.

sirs. Lascelles' private information to her friends had
borne fruit even more quickly than she herself could
have hoped. She did not expect that Mr. Woodall
would so soon obtain the key to his daughter's pallor

14—2

and to lier frequent visits to Teresina. She had only
wished to prepare the ground, and to gain all Portino
to her side of the question. She was reinforced in an
unexpected manner by two letters which Mr. Las
celles brought up to her in the afternoon.

One was from George Stent. It ran as follows :

Dear Mr. Lascelles,

We were much grieved at the intelligence
conveyed in your favour of the 8th inst. Both Clara
and myself are sincerely sorry to hear that Ronald is.
hurt, and that his recovery is not likely to be rapid.
But our sorrow on this account is far surpassed b}^ the
pain we feel at the young man having committed so
wrong and unchristian an act as to fight a duel, and
for so paltry and wicked a cause as a quarrel over
cards. AVe will not, however, add to the natural grief
which you and Mrs. Lascelles must feel, by any condemnatory
remarks.

In compliance with your request, I called this
morning on Mr. Charteris, and delivered your letter.
He informed me that he would reply to it himself, but
I gathered that he was not very favourably disposed
towards your unfortunate son. I cannot say that I
am surprised at this circumstance.

Clara continues as well as can be expected. I have
dissuaded her from writing herself, as she is naturally
much disturbed by her brother's misconduct. It is,
indeed, fortunate that the news, owing to the precautions
I took, has had no serious consequence. She
sends her best love to you, Mrs. Lascelles, and her sister.
With kind regards, believe me to remain,
Dear Mr. Lascelles,

Yours very sincerely,

George Stent.'

What a heartless, odious letter !' exclaimed Mrs.
Lascelles. ' Poor Clara ! I had no idea he was such
a cold-blooded creature, had you ?'

No, indeed,' exclaimed the Consul, ' or I would
never have sanctioned the marriage, notwithstanding
all his money. He is a prig ! Fancy condoling with
us on poor Konald's misconduct, as he calls it.'

Yes, and saying that he won't add any condemnatory
remarks. It is too bad. Yet, somehow, he does
not seem to make Clara miserable. She always writes.
us if she adored him.'

Perhaps she does,' said Mr. Lascelles, shrugging his
shoulders, a gesture acquired by long residence in
Italy ; ' tastes differ. But look at this ! It makes
matters worse.'

This ' was a letter from Mr. Charteris.

Sir ' (it said),

In reply to your letter, in which you request
further leave of absence for your son, Mr. Ronald Las-celles,
on account of his serious illness, I beg to inform
you that it is not in my power to grant it, as all

requests for leave beyond that allowed by the Departmental
rules must be referred to the Treasury. In
order, however, to save time, I have transmitted your
letter, with the medical certificates enclosed in it, to
the Junior Lord, whose decision will in due course be
communicated to you.

I am, Sir,

Your obedient servant,

F. G. Charteris.'

This is not very encouraging, is it T asked the
Consul.

Indeed it is not !' replied his wife. ' It is all
George's fault. What a pity you wrote to him !'

I regret it bitterly,' said Mr. Lascelles. ' I thought
no one would work so heartily for poor Konald as his
brother-in-law. It seems that I was quite wrong, and
should have done better to send my letter to Mr.
Charteris by post.'

I do not suppose lie will get the extension now
remarked Mrs. Lascelles. ' What will happen if it is
refused V

He will be struck off the list, that is all,' replied
the Consul.

Do you know that I shall not be so very sorry ?
When once that wretched office is off his mind, he will
mend much more quickly, and I am sure that then
^^e need not wait long before he is engaged to Edith
WoodalL'

You still think he is fond of her ?'

I am more sure of it than ever.' replied Mrs. Las-celles.
' And as to her, she positively worships him.
She is always coming to see Teresina now, and talks
to the child for hours about nothing but Ronald. She
sends flowers for his room every day. I know they
come from her, though the sly puss pretends that they
don't'

Well, you know best,' answered the Consul, again

shrugging his shoulders. ' But I should he very sorry
if Ronald lost his appointment.'

The very best thing that could happen to him,' the
lady said very positively.

And thus another mesh was woven in the net.

]ills. Lascelles had indeed somno grounds for saying
that she was more certain than before about Ronald's
affection. The young man was ill, therefore easily
affected. Of course his mother had made no secret of
Edith's frequent visits. She was far too clever to
rush in and say that the girl was there again — far too
acute to volunteer any statements whatever. But
vrhen she arranged the flowers, she took care that
Ronald should ask her who had sent them ; when Teresa
returned to the sick-room to take charge of her
brother she did not forget to inquire whether anyone
had called, and who. She had been almost triumphant
when Mr. Woodall himself looked in on the
Sunday, to ask about the invalid's progress ; but she

had understood how to conceal her triumph. At that
time, of course, the banker had known nothing except
that there had been a quarrel, and his visit had simply
been paid out of kindliness to his old friend the
Consul. But Mrs. Lascelles produced the card on the
Tuesday, quite accidentally, and watched Konald's
face while he looked at it. It did not, however, tell
her very much. She learnt more from his glance of
satisfaction when the daily bouquet was brought in.

Few men in rude health know what the sight and
perfume of a Marshal Noel rose means to an invalid
nailed to his couch. Ronald's pleasure was at first a
purely sensual one. He always delighted in flowers,.
and when he could do nothing but lie on his back and
listen to Teresina's reading, he almost yearned for
them. They brought him the sun and the fresh air
and the blue sky, and he inhaled their intoxicating
perfume with positive greed. He took a pale saffron-coloured
rose and laid it on the coverlet ; he raised it

to his face and smelt it ; he examined it, and admired
it, and smelt it again. All this was merely because he
liked roses much, and he was weak and ill, and they
pleased him and soothed him. But Mrs. Lascelles
made up her mind that he was worshipping the giver ;
and if she had ever had any doubts at all about the
intensity of her son's love for Edith, they now disappeared.


And no doubt Ronald did sometimes — very often,
in fact — think of the fair girl who filled the sick-room
with flowers, and called so often to hear of his progress.
However fond a man may be of his young sister, )however
much he may adore his mother, the hours are
apt to pass heavily when he has absolutely no other
company but theirs. The doctors had prohibited
visits altogether. Only the nurse, Teresina, and Mrs.
Lascelles could be trusted to refuse to talk themselves
and to reduce the invalid to silence when he had
talked enough. Even the Consul was only allowed

live minutes morning and evening. So Ronald had
plenty of time to think, and he sometimes thought that
it would be very pleasant for a change if Edith were
there to read to him, or to play to him, or even simply
to sit still. He also caught himself wondering what she
thought of the duel, and whether she knew why he
had fought it. He would have been so glad to see
Stornello, or Colonel Martini, or young Donati ; for he
would have liked to know what Portino said.

A man may be very plucky and single-minded
during a duel ; but when it is all over, and when he
has to bear a long period of confinement, he will not
unnaturally begin to think that he ought to get some
good by his endurance of suffering. So one day he
risked Teresina what was the last news in Portino.

They say you were brave to fight, and very noble
to let the man off,' replied Teresina, kissing him.
But you must not excite yourself, dear. Dr. Salviati
says you must not talk about the duel.'

Further cross-examination was of no use. Teresina
knew nothing particular. Gossip had not reached
her still juvenile ears. Eonald was determined not to
ask his mother, who, as he sometimes expressed it in
his own thoughts, ' had gone over to the enemy,' orin
other words, wanted him to marry. He must wait
till he was allowed to see his male friends. He had
not to wait very long. Before another week was over
young Donati, who had often craved admittance, was
at last allowed to come in. As he was young and
had not been present at the duel, he was considered
the most harmless of Ronald's friends. There was of
course much hand-pressing and much condolence.
Then Ronald looked round, and asked the sick nurse
to fetch him some beef-tea. This he knew would take
a few minutes.

What do they say about the duel, Donati ? I
mean, about the cause of it V

What should they say, cave mio ? They say you

foiiG^ht like a lion for the Simorina AVoodall, and that
she must be very hard-hearted to refuse you !'

Then they know !' gasped Ronald. ' Who told
them ? Who told you ?'

Chi lo SCO ? It Alas in the air ! On Sunday nobody
knew. They said you had quarrelled at the
Casino. On Tuesday, behold they all knew, even the
veriest baby. And they all wish to congratulate ; I
first of all, mio caro amico '

The nurse was too quick for the friends. She would
not leave her patient long, so simply ordered the beef-tea
and returned. The conversation had to be conducted
very carefully, and the special subject avoided.

Just when sirs. Lascelles called Donati away, as his
quarter of an hour had expired, the young man stooped
over his friend and kissed him in Italian fashion on
both cheeks. At the same time he whispered :

Courage, Rinaldo. The day you can rise, go and
ask the hanchiere for his daughter. Lucky man !'

RONALD ASKS QUESTIONS.

Mr. Charteris' letter to the Consul was followed, in
about a week, by a communication from the Junior
Lord of the Treasury. This was couched in warmer
and more courteous terms than the Somerset
House epistle, for Mr. Lascelles' services were
sufficiently well known and appreciated in official
circles for him to be treated as a valued public
servant.

The letter was marked ' Private and Confidential
and the writer took the liberty to suggest that the
best plan would be for Mr. Eonald Lascelles to send in
his resignation on the score of ill-health. ' sly Lords

said the friendly Junior Lord, would scarcely be in a
position to grant Mr. Lascelles a further extension of
leave. Mr. Charters had been informed of the applicant's
illness and its cause, which would militate
seriously against the indulgence requested. It would
probably be better for Mr. Eonald Lascelles to resign
now, and to make an application for re-admission to
the Civil Service at some future time, when he was
quite restored to health and the boyish quarrel was
forgotten.

Of course Mr. Lascelles attributed this advice
entirely to his son-in-law's hostile officiousness. His
irritation was extreme, and he vented his anger by a
very stiff note to Mr. George Stent, which scarcely
ruffled that gentleman at all, as he felt conscious of
having done his duty. There was a consultation between
the parents and the doctors as to whether
Ronald should be informed of the state of things. The
matter was urgent ; and as the fever had now entirely

disappeared, it was determined that the young man
should be informed of his altered prospects.

Mrs. Lascelles undertook the task, which was an
easy one to her, for reasons already explained.

George Stent has been very stupid,' she said to
Eonald ; ' but I think his stupidity will turn out for
the best.'

And then she told him what had happened, concluding
with the words :

So now you must not worry about Somerset House.
Get well as soon as you can, and then we will talk
about what you shall do next.' •

I do not see what I am to do !' said Konald despondingly.


Nonsense, Ronald ! Why surely you have it all
your own way I'

He suspected his mother's drift, but did not, at first,
choose to understand.

Nothing but my father's allowance, and no pro-vol.

I. 15

sects of a berth ! I do not call that having it all my
own way.'

And a charming girl, with a large fortune, ready to
marry you the moment you ask her,' replied his
mother, smiling. ' Certainly the prospect is very bad
indeed ! — but it is one which most young men would
envy.'

I cannot make up my mind about that yet,'
answered Ronald.

'Really, you surprise me, dear,' said his mother
gently. * You go and fight a duel because some man
pays her attention ' (Ronald started), ' you create a
sensation in the place ; you 'pose as her champion, and
get severely hurt on her behalf, and then you say you
can't make up your mind. What is it, dear boy, that
worries you ?' she asked, gently stroking his soft hair.
Tell me. No one can be so anxious for your future
happiness as I am, and you should confide in me.'

There is really nothing more to tell, mother, than

what I have already said he replied. ' I do not think
I love Edith well enough to marry her.'

Mrs. Lascelles smiled, thinking of the duel, and
remembering the Marshal Noel roses.

You need not be afraid, Eonald. There are few
men who would coolly expose their lives for a girl,
even if they loved her very much. Do you think
George Stent would have fought a duel for Clara ?'

No,' laughed Ronald ; ' it's not in his line.'

Yet he loves her deeply, I believe, and I think they
are very happy. Don't be such a goose, Ronald. I
can't understand your doubts. It seems to me thg^t if
ever there was a case of love on both sides, this is
one.'

I cannot explain myself, mother, but I suppose you
are rio'ht after all.'

o

Of course I am , Ronald. You may trust my experience.'


The young man did not look quite convinced, but

15—2

there was a flush on his cheek which warned his
mother that the exciting discussion must not be pursued
further. She turned the conversation. Ronald
became very silent, and scarcely paid attention to his
mother's remarks.

'Do you not think that I might see Stornello,
mother ?' he asked at length. ' The poor fellow has
been here so often, and has never once been admitted ;
and really I am fit to talk to anyone now.'

Mrs. Lascelles raised no objection, and with a gratified
sigh Ronald laid his head back on the pillow.
For he had resolved to have a serious talk with his
old friend before finally deciding on the step his
mother advised so warmly. Storncllo was young, he
was enthusiastic, he had been — perhaps still was —
really in love, and would therefore understand Ronald
better than even his mother.

My dearest friend, how pale you look ! Eoiitd
divine, what a change !' Such was Stornello's

greeting, scarcely quite a judicious one. ' Days I
have been waiting to see you, but that duenna of
yours ' — with a glance round to see that they were
alone — ' is worse than a Cerberus. If I ever have a
pretty wife I will appoint that nurse to be housekeeper.'


The doctors ordered me to keep quiet,' said
Konald.

Ah, yes ! I know, covering. When they once
obtain footing in a house they are like blackberries —
very difficult to get rid of But now, I hope, they
have done their worst, and soon you will be on your
legs again ! How pleased we shall be !'

I shall have to remain on the sofa at least three
weeks more, they say,' sighed poor Eonald.

Three weeks ? Impossible ! But what of that ?
Three weeks are nothing, if you can have friends to
talk to you, and cheer you, and tell you what they
are saying in Portino.'

'What are they saying in Portino ? That is just
what I want to know, Marco,' said Ronald.

That you are a hero, that Delia Rocca is a
coward, and that the signorina is a very happy woman.
That is what they say, cassino, and they are
right;

How did they find out that it concerned Miss.
Woodall ?' asked Ronald.

Stornello blushed violently, remembering his cross-examination
at Mrs. Lascelles' hands.

A little bird !' he answered, shrugging his shoulders.
What would you ? These things are found out
somehow, however discreet one may be. Remember,
there were many present under the portico of the
Palazzo Donation

there were,' assented Ronald.

And,' Stornello proceeded, gaining courage as he
saw that his friend did not suspect him, ' they will
talk, you know. There were comparative strangers

amongst them — people who had no special reason for
silence.'

It is very annoying !' exclaimed Ronald.

Annoying ! How ?' asked the Italian. Why it is
a blessing from heaven, since, caro mio, you are not
killed, for which all the saints be thanked.'

I do not think it is a blessing that a young lady
should be talked about by all the fools in Portino,'
growled the invalid.

Why not, as you are going to marry her ? It is
quite dramatic ! Of course you would not wish the
signorina to be talked about in connection with anyone
else ! But with you it is different, being about to
become her husband.'

But I am not, Marco. It is a mistake !'

How, a mistake ?' exclaimed Stornello, quite surprised.
' Surely she is pleased and accepts such a
husband as you with delight ? — or is it the vecchio
who objects ?'

No answered Ronald quietly ; 'it is my own
fault. I have not asked her.'

Oh ! on account of your dreadful wound. Povero,
of course you could not ask her formally. But it is
understood. The Signore papa has arranged matters,
no doubt ?'

Nothing is arranged. I cannot make up my mind.
Listen, Stornello ; I want your advice !'

With the greatest pleasure, Rinaldo. Ha ! I comprehend.
There is some little affair to settle first;
some pretty contains, perhaps? Oh, Rinaldo, I
thought you were a serious man. Fie ! But command
me — I am at your service. And I flatter
myself that I can conduct such a negotiation delicately,
diplomatically. Do you want money ? I have
plenty just now ; the rents have come in.'

Do stop, old man ! don't hurry on so,' said Ronald,
interrupting the Italian's voluble flow of words. ' I
thank you from my heart, for I know you have no

more money than you want, and your offers of help
*are more valuable even than money

Pooh !' again interrupted Stornello, ' fra amici *

But there is nothing of the sort. What I meant to
ask you is simply whether you think I am in love with
Miss Woodall ?'

The Italian stared at him in astonishment. Ronald
repeated the question.

In love !' gasped he at last. ' Why certo, certissmio !
How could it be otherwise ? Is she not most graceful
and charming ? Rinaldo mio, your wound must have
affected you. You have fever.'

Not at all said Ronald. ' What I cannot decide
is whether I love her enough to marry her !'

This was too much for Stornello. He burst into a
roar of laughter.

Capital !' he cried. ' Excellent ! Here is a young
man who is generally rather cool and Phlegmatic, but
catches fire because a handsome Marchese dances

twice, thrice, with Signorina Edith. He knows her
well himself; he dances with her many times. He
eclipses the Marchese, and then fights him. And he
asks me whether he loves her enough to marry her !
Why, caro mio, you are not in love like 7ioi altri. We
first singe our hair a little ; our hearts are perhaps
touched. But you burn ! The flames consume you ;
and as to your heart, why,' and here Stornello placed
his hand on his waistcoat ' it is all gone — all at the
Palazzo Woodall !'

You really think so ?' asked Eonald doubtfully.
Your judgment is not formed merely by the circumstances
of that night ?'

No !' exclaimed Stornello. ' I have seen it coming ;
we have all seen it coming ever since you last returned
from England. A blind man could see it. Both of
the signori papas must have seen it, and they wagged
their old heads and smiled approvingly. Look at the
hancliieve now !'

And Stornello, who Alas like most Italians a born
mimic, cleverly ' made up ' his face to resemble Mr.
AVoodall removing his spectacles and smiling blandly.

There was a knock at the door, and Mrs. Lascelles
came in.

Forgive me. Count Stornello,' she said, ' for interrupting
you.'

The young man greeted her courteously and almost
affectionately, for he was very fond of the good matron,
and she had taken him into her heart when she noticed
the frequency of his visits and his anxious inquiries
about Ronald. But her liking for him did not prevent
her doing her duty.

You have been half an hour talking, and Ronald
is not allowed to excite himself for fear of a return of
the fever. I must turn you out, but,' she added, with
a smile, ' you may come tomorrow, if you like. He
will be glad to see you.'

Indeed I shall,' said the invalid.

And Stornello, kissing him on both, cheeks, bid
them good-bye.

The visit was disturbing in its effects. Ronald
could think only of the subject discussed, and these
thoughts did not conduce to rest. Everybody thought
he was in love with Edith, and his best friends laughed
at the notion that he did not care for her enough to
marry her. They must be right after all. The friendship,
the true affection, he felt for the girl "must belove.
It was not quite what he expected love to be,
but evidently he had been mistaken. It could be
nothing else. Stornello had no interest in the matter
except Konald's own; Stornello had been with him
constantly during the past months. He had been perfectly
open and frank with the young Italian, who, as
an outsider, would see most of the game. Stornello
was sure that there was love — not ordinary love, but a
violent passion.

Donati too — though Donati, being a mere boy, could

not be expected to know much — expressed the same
opinion. And his wise mother entertained no doubts
whatever. Certainly then it must be true, and his
misgivings were exaggerated and absurd.

She was really a most delightful girl, and he could
find no fault with her, except that there floated before
him a vision of deep-black eyes, a short nose, and a
small mouth with full red lips, which were not Edith's.
Did real lovers ever consider their mistress's nose and
eyes and lips anything but perfection ? Edith's nose
was too long, undoubtedly, and her cheek-bones projected
too much. Surely that was not a lover's standpoint
! If he really loved her, could he criticise her
nose and her cheek-bones ?

Well, there were certainly many men in love with
much uglier women, who had much longer noses and
higher cheek-bones. laid these men, he wondered,
ever notice their wives' faults ? Surely they must.
They could not be quite blind. If they looked at a

statue, they must perceive that the faces of then ladyloves
did not come up to the ideal. That was no
reason for not loving a woman ! If only ideally
beautiful women obtained husbands, what a sad thing
it would be for the human race ! It must be all nonsense
; and how could he expect to find a classical
beauty? And over this nonsense, a companion of
sense, he at last fell asleep. And he was visited by
a dream of a beautiful creature, of imposing figure and
rich colour, who seemed instinct with Italian warmth
and sunshine. She stretched out a jewelled hand to
him, and he clasped it, and awoke. But nevertheless
Stornello had woven another mesh in the net — very
nearly the last.

THE CONSUL'S OPINION.

Mr. Lascelles had always been a good father to his
children, and they loved him dearly. They could
scarcely remember a harsh word from him ; and even
in Ronald's boyish days, when he had played some
tricks which deserved a birching, Mr. Lascelles had.
only reproached gently. Thus, his children loved him
more than they feared him, and it was not surprising
that the stronger will of his wife reduced him to a
secondary position at home. He was perfectly satisfied
with it. She had governed the household with a
firm and judicious rule from the first day that she
took charge of the then tiny establishment. She had

made small means go far even for Italy, and had
brought up their children admirably.

During the disturbed political and social times
of our story Mr. Lascelles had, of course, been much
absorbed by his duties, and by the responsibilities he
was obliged to assume. Once he had been for several
months the only representative of England in that
portion of Italy, for there was no Government ta
which an envoy could be accredited, and the other
towns only possessed native Vice-consuls. So it
happened that at the critical period of his two elder
children's lives their father was too busy to be consulted
by them, too much absorbed to give advice
often even too anxious to listen to them. Hence both
Clara and Ronald had come to regard their mother as
the ruler and chief of the family. Even when things
had to be done which only a father could do, Mrs.
Lascelles undertook them. She placed papers to sign
before her husband, drafted letters for him, and

carried out everything except the more formal work.
It was she to whom George Stent had explained his
intentions as to Clara's marriage settlement, and it was
she who had instructed the lawyers, always, however,
careful to keep up her husbands prestige by such
phrases as : ' Mr. Lascelles wishes me to tell you,' or
I will ask Mr. Lascelles what he thinks.'

To talk matters over with his father was therefore
an unusual idea for Ronald. Hitherto he had never
talked matters over with his father. He had discussed
them with his mother, and when a decision requiring Mr.
Lascelles's co-operation was arrived at, it was carried
out as a matter of course without more ado. But
when he woke on the morning after Stornello's visit,
and lay on his bed waiting for the nurse to dress his
wound, which was still occasionally painful, he decided
to have a talk with Mr. Lascelles. There was a faint
idea lingering in his breast that his father might not
share the general opinion, and would take up the viev/

VOL. I. 16

that he ought not, under the circumstances, to propose
to Edith. Every one to whom he had yet spoken
seemed to consider him as necessarily engaged to her, or
about to be ; and to everyone it appeared so proper,
so natural, in fact so inevitable, that, as has already
been seen, Ronald had very nearly overcome his
scruples and adopted the same opinion. But there
was still a chance that his father might disapprove,
and, if so, he would, as a dutiful son, follow his father's
advice. So when Mr. Lascelles came to inquire after
him as usual, he asked whether the Consul could
spare a quarter of an hour from the office, and begged
Teresina to leave them alone together, which she did
with a slight pout on her pretty lips.

Now that I must resign Somerset House, father,
thanks to George's clumsiness, do you see anything
for me to do ?'

Get well as fast as you can, my boy,' answered Mr.
Lascelles.

But afterwards ?'

Don't worry about afterwards. You must get strong
before we need think about anything else.'

I am improving so much, father, that I shall be
about in a very few weeks. It is high time to think
of what I am to try next ; it is no use my hanging
about here, you know.'

You might help me in the Consulate,' said Mr.
Lascelles, ' and of course they Avould appoint you unpaid
vice-consul directly. Then, when I retire you
would probably get the place.'

Ronald made a grimace. The prospect of being
unpaid vice-consul at Portino for eight or ten years
was not particularly attractive, and his father, as he
knew, could not afford to retire in less time.

I am afraid that is not a very bright look-out,
father,' he said, ' because I should be many years without
earning anything, and you know you cannot afford
to keep me.'

16—2

Oh, we could manage well enough if you lived at
home,' said Mr. Lascelles.

The Consul evidently did not wish to broach the
subject of his son's love affairs. His wife had warned
him ' that he would spoil all.' So Ronald had to start
upon it himself.

Do you think I ought to propose to Edith Woodall,
father ?' he asked abruptly.

Mr. Lascelles looked surprised.

Ought ? what do you mean, my boy ? I thought
you wished to do so. I understood you were fond of
her.'

Never mind that for the present, father. Do you
think there is any necessity for my proposing to heron
account of this stupid duel, you know, and all the
talk in the place ?'

I think she would be much disappointed if you did
not speak answered Mr. Lascelles, smiling.

But not otherwise compromised ?' inquired Ronald.

No, certainly not,' replied the Consul. ' She has
behaved very well, and there is nothing to compromise
her at present except a little idle gossip, which would
soon wear ose But why do you ask such questions,
Ronald ? Surely you are not afraid of being rejected
?'

No, father ; but I am puzzled about two questions.
The first is, whether I love her sufficiently to make
her as good a husband as she deserves '

That you are the only person to judge of,' interrupted
Mr. Lascelles. ' 1 can't tell you. I should
have thought it very easy to make up your mind
about it.'

It is not so easy as you think, father.'
Well, I never had any doubts about your mother,
Ronald. I was afraid she would not have me, but I
never feared that I should not be a good husband to
her ! What a fanciful idea ! If you like the girl, and
if she loves you, which your mother tells me is the

case, why of course you will make her the best
husband she can have ! Surely that is a matter for
her to have doubts about, not you ! What a queer
lot you young fellows are, with your hesitations and
uncertainties !'

Perhaps we are,' said Ronald.

Why, in my young days, if a fellow liked a girl, he
asked her to marry him, and never bothered his head
as to whether he was sufficiently in love with her to
make her a good husband ; and I don't think marriages
turned out worse than they do now.'

Well, father, let us put that aside for a moment.
I like Miss Woodall very much '

You could not have chosen better, my boy,' interrupted
Mr. Lascelles. ' I have known her ever since
she was in long clothes, and I have known her father
almost since we were boys together.'

That brings me to the second question,' said
Ronald. ' Is it fair, do you think, for me to propose

to a girl in such a good position, and considering that
I have nothing at all ?'

Well, of course she is well off replied Mr. Lascelles.
She has some money of her own from her mother. I
was one of the executors, so I know all about that.
And Woodall is sure to do something handsome for
her. There are only two children, and the boy is quite
a little fellow yet'

That is just the difficulty. Will it not look as if I
were marrying the girl for her money ?'

'Nobody will say that of my son,' answered Mr.
Lascelles proudly. * The Lascelles are a much older
family than the Woodalls. He is the best fellow in
the world, and one of my oldest friends ; but between
you and me, Ronald, I don't believe he has a grandfather.'


Not now, I dare say,' said Ronald, smiling, * Why,
he is at least fifty. But no doubt he had a grandfather
some time or other.'

Quite a nonentity, then — a man no one ever heard
of. Probably a grocer in the City. Now you, Ronald,
have ancestors to be proud of. Admiral Sir Ronald
Lascelles burnt the French fleet at *

'Oh yes, father, I know all about Admiral Sir
Ronald, and General Lascelles who was Governor of
Virginia under George I., and all that. But people
really do not attach much weight to an historical name
nowadays, unless there is a handle to it, or money as well.*

I am afraid not, Ronald,' assented the Consul.

Then, as a matter of fact, and looking at it calmly
and impartially, what have I to offer in exchange for
Miss Woodall's money and the position her father
might make for me ? It is no use pretending. I
don't want to deceive myself : I have nothing at all
to offer — neither a title, nor position, nor money, nor
talents.'

Plenty of talent, my boy,' said Mr. Lascelles, ' Do
not make yourself out too cheap.'

No, father ; that is not my way. I am generally
bumptious enough. But somehow I have not
fancied myself quite so much lately as I used
to.'

So it seems observed the Consul, with a little
touch of sarcasm.

And,' continued the young man, ' though I believe
I have a certain amount of brains, they have wasted
dreadfully in that wretched office. If I had hammered
away at writing for the papers, or plays, or poetry,
like some of the fellows did, I might have acquired
some sort of reputation. But I wasted the time
sadly.'

Do you really mean that because the girl you love
has money, and you have none at present, you will
give her up ?' asked Mr. Lascelles.

I think I ought, as a gentleman,' said Eonald.
Besides, I have told you that I am not so sure about
loving her.'

That is all fudge !' exclaimed his father almost
impatiently. ' If anyone is to be judged by his conduct,
you are very much in love with her indeed.
The other question is far more serious. You are quite
right to consult me about it, because it is one of those
questions in which women cannot as a rule give a
reliable opinion, however clever they may be. But
I am pretty well certain that you need have no
scruples.'

Why, father ?'

Because the girl is, I believe, much attached to
you. You have not intrigued nor sneaked to gain her
affection '

No, indeed !' exclaimed Ronald.

Exactly. Circumstances have brought it about
that you have become a sort of hero in the place,
which, by-the-by, is more than you deserve for having
been such a young donkey,' said Mr. Lascelles good-humouredly.
' That Italian might just as well have

killed you altogether. But nobody supposes, nobody
can suppose, that the duel was part of a premeditated
plan.'

Of course not assented the young man.

Well, your mother tells me that Miss Woodall is
thoroughly in love with you, and will accept you at
once if you propose.'

I am not so sure of that,' remarked Konald.

If she refuses you, there is an end of the matter,'
Mr. Lascelles went on. ' Then, of course, we must
take measures to find you something to do, and
the sooner you get away from here the better. But
I think your mother is right ; she generally is.'

Yes, father.'

And I believe that Woodall would not mind a bit.
On the contrary, I think he would sooner give his
daughter to you than to anyone else.'

You are very sanguine, father dear, and you think
too well of me.'

No, my boy ; but I know Woodall. He does not
like the Italians, and as Edith has kept house for him
here since his wife's death, she has, of course, not
seen much of English society. She has not made the
acquaintance of any very eligible young men. So you
have a very fair field and practically no competitors
at present.'

That is all quite true,' assented Ronald.

Then, if the father likes you, and sees no objection
in your having neither money nor position, and if the
daughter likes you, and will be wretched if you don't
propose '

Oh ! she is not so far gone as that,' interrupted the
young man.*

Your mother thinks so,' retorted the Consul ; ' and
she is generally right. Of course, however, she maybe
mistaken. In that case, as I said before, no harm
is done, and you will go away, as you would probably
do under other circumstances, as soon as you are well.'

Certainly,' answered Ronald. * It is no use stopping
here doing nothing.'

'Precisely. Now let me finish what I was going
to say. If father and daughter both like you, he
moderately and she very much indeed, and if they
don't mind your being penniless, why the deuce should
you worry about it, eh ?'

It does seem rather absurd,' said Ronald.

It is absurd. Make up your mind, my boy. You
won't do better, I can tell you. We should all be
pleased; and think how happy your mother would
be. But now I must really get down to the Consulate.'


This was the last mesh in the net. Mr. Lascelles
had taken much more time and trouble to discuss
the matter than his son had expected, and he had
argued it out fairly and sensibly, without any special
paternal bias. Ronald could not see any flaw in the
reasoning. There was certainly a vast difference

between an ordinary fortune-hunter and a young man
of good name but small means, who happened to
please a wealthy young lady and her father. No one
could possibly accuse him of having tried to win
Edith for her money's sake. As Stornello and Donati
had told him, the feeling was all the other way, and
people thought that Edith was lucky to get such a
hero for a husband.

Ronald knew very well in his heart that he was nota
hero, and before the visits he had received he had
had no notion of being considered one. But when a
man is exposed to continuous subtle flattery for
several days consecutively, he is rather apt to forget
his own intimate convictions, and to estimate himself
at the high value set on him by his friends. It was
not an unpleasant feeling, and though the idol might
know that he was but clay, it was decidedly nice to
be placed on a pedestal and worshipped, and assured
that he was all pure gold.

That he was in love with Edith he now supposed
must be true, for everybody said he was ; that she
was in love with him he concluded to be probable, ashe
trusted his mother's judgment implicitly on this
subject ; that Mr. Woodall would accept him as a
son-in-law also appeared likely, from what his father
and Stornello had told him. And as all Portino
thought him a hero, perhaps after all he was heroic
without knowing it. St. Clair, and Egerton Paul,
and a dozen other men, would have done just the
same, he thought. Perhaps they were all heroes,
only that they had not been so lucky as himself in
having opportunities of proving it.

A CHARADE.

When Mrs. Lascelles found her son in a pliable state
of mind, she lost no time in making use of it.
Towards the middle of May many families annually
left Portino for the hills. It was now already April,
so there were not many weeks to waste. Ronald was
progressing very well, but it would be some time
before he could walk. He could not yet be lifted
into a carriage and driven to the Palazzo Woodall to
make his proposal. Nor, on the other hand, could
she invite Edith to come to his sofa and be
proposed to.

Her ingenuity was, however, quite equal to the

emergency. She sallied forth one fine day very soon
after the conversation between father and son (which,
of course, had been reported to her in precis form) to
see her dear friend Edith, whose numerous visits of
inquiry she had not yet rewarded by a single call.
The girl was at home, and Mrs. Lascelles was at once
shown into her sitting-room, where she was practising
industriously on the piano. At the sight of her
visitor Edith started up, and, turning pale, exclaimed
:

He is not worse, is he V

Mrs. Lascelles smiled, and kissed her affectionately.

No, dear ; thank God, he is really quite well, only
he is not allowed to use his leg at all, and, of course,
he cannot leave the sofa at present.'

Oh, I am so glad !' said Edith, her colour returning.
' Do sit down, Mrs. Lascelles. How good of
you to come and see me !'

I have come to consult you, dear.'

VOL. I. 17

Yes ? About what V

About Ronald.' Edith blushed again. ' You see,
he is dreadfully dull. So would any young man be,
confined to a couch all day, and not able even to
fetch a book for himself.'

Of course,' assented Edith ; ' it must be dreadful
for him.'

Yes,' continued Mrs. Lascelles. ' Some of his
friends come to see him occasionally, and Teresina
and I do our best to amuse him ; but he is dull all
the same, and the doctors say that his spirits
ought to be kept up. He is so used to activity, you
know ! When he is in good health he is always
playing cricket, or sailing, or rowing, and it is very
hard for him to be mewed up in two rooms.'

Very hard indeed,' said the girl ; ' I wonder he
bears it patiently.'

'Oh, he is wonderfully good and patient!' exclaimed
Mrs. Lascelles, intent on praising up her man.

Men are generally so tiresome when they are ill,
always fidgeting and grumbling. Now Ronald is as
gentle and good-tempered as an angel. But he is
very dull, all the same. He wants a little amusement.'


What do you propose to do, Mrs. Lascelles ? How
can I help you ? I wish I could. I would do anything
in my power for you.'

Edith was careful to offer her help to the mother,
for the mother's sake. A month ago she would have
said frankly that she would do anything in her power
to help Ronald. But love teaches girls caution.

'I am sure you would, dear,' said Mrs. Lascelles,
again kissing her. ' That is why I have come to you.
Now this is what I propose : You know we have a
boudoir behind the drawing-room — the little room
looking on the courtyard ?'

Yes,' said Miss Woodall ; ' well ?'

Well, we hardly ever use the room, though it is

17—2

separated from the drawing-room only by folding
doors. Mr. Lascelles had them nailed up and covered
with a curtain, because he thought they made the
place draughty. But of course, now the fine weather
has come, they could be opened again easily.'

I know the place,' said Edith ; ' we used to act
charades there when we were children.'

Exactly, replied Mrs. Lascelles. ' Now, Ronald
wants a little amusement, you know, and I thought it
would be such a capital idea if we got up a little
charade again. Just a trifle to cheer him up, you
know, and divert his thoughts, for the poor fellow has
lost his berth in Somerset House.'

Lost it !' exclaimed Edith. ' How ?'

On account of his illness, dear. He was obliged
to ask for two months' more leave, and they would
not give it him.'

'Why not? How cruel!'

It was unkind. Some wretched gossip told his

chief the reason of Ronald's illness, and it seems they
disapprove of duels very strongly.'

Then he was punished for his bravery V said Edith.
Oh dear, how dreadful !'

That is over now, my dear, and it is no use lamenting,'
said Mrs. Lascelles, who saw by Edith's disturbed
face that her shot had hit the mark. ' What we must
do is to try and amuse the dear boy, and get him to
forget his trouble. Unless he does, he will be a longtime
getting better. At least that is what Salviati
thinks.'

Dr. Salviati may have thought it, but he certainly
had not said so. The patient was prohibited from
moving his leg at all, and had to adhere to an invalid
diet. Beyond this, and a general order not to excite
himself, the doctor's instructions did not go. There
was now no longer the slightest fear of fever.

I shall be very glad to do what I can,' said Edith,
but people will be going away soon.'

'Oh! I am thinking only of quite a simple little
charade, something that you and Teresina, and your
brother Charley, and perhaps young Donati, might getup
between you. We should only just ask a few intimate
friends. Charley will be back soon, will he
not V

We expect him tomorrow. Good Friday,' answered
Edith. ' His holidays will last about three weeks,
but he will have to go away again on Tuesday
fortnight.'

That suits exactly,' Mrs. Lascelles went on. ' We
should not want more than a week's preparation for
this sort of thing. The rehearsals and so on would
amuse Ronald. We could put him on his sofa in the
boudoir, with his little table by his side, and he would
enjoy the fun immensely, I know.'

I am afraid I could not act,' said Edith hesitatingly
; ' I should be too nervous. I have not done
such a thing for years.'

Nonsense, dear ! we could not get on without you
at all. You really must ! you know, you promised todo
what you could to help us.'

'But I did not expect this ; and I don't know
whether papa could spare me.'

Edith was, in truth, doubtful about the whole affair.
A flush of joy had come over her when the plan was
suggested ; as it would enable her to see Ronald, and
to convince herself that he was really getting welland
to tell him how she repented her flirtation with
Delia Rocca, which had caused all his misfortune.
But then doubts had assailed her. Would she be
able to act at all ? Would it be proper to discuss the
duel with Ronald ? Would her father allow her
to go ? Her cogitations were interrupted by Mrs.
Lascelles.

You must choose the piece, my dear, and arrange
it, and select the actors, and everything. And as to
your father, I will go at once and ask his leave. So

that is settled. Now, good-bye ! Come round on
Saturday with Charley and we will have a talk
over it.'

Mr. Woodall was rather surprised when Mrs. Las-celles's
card was brought into his private room. Fora
moment he thought that the lady came as an ambassador
to negotiate an alliance for her son. He had
a great respect for her talents, and felt that he would
be at a decided disadvantage. When she came in and
said at once : ' You are astonished to see me at
the Bank, Mr. Woodall ! I have come to ask
a great favour,' he was more alarmed than ever.
He said :

Sit down, Mrs. Lascelles ! Very happy to oblige
you in any way I can. I hope your son is getting on
nicely !' But he did not feel happy, and did not
look it.

He is very dull,' replied Mrs. Lascelles. ' Teresina
is going to try a little charade to amuse her brother —

quite a children's thing, you know. I want you to let
Edith and Charley help her

Mr. Woodall breathed again. Not because he had
felt any hostility to the proposal he had expected, but
because he did not like the idea of discussing it with
so superior a woman as Mrs. Lascelles, and thought
she would certainly obtain from him promises and
concessions for which he might be sorry afterwards.
The banker was so pleased at being let off this time
that he raised no objection whatever, and willingly
gave his children leave to attend rehearsals as often
as Mrs. Lascelles liked. The latter sent a triumphant
note to Edith, who meanwhile had been dwelling in
agony of mind on the information imparted to her.
Her self-reproaches had been bitter enough before, for
she had blamed her flippancy and flirtation with Delia
Rocca as the cause of Ronald's serious wound; but
now they were much worse. For she had also been
the cause of his losing his position in Somerset House.

She did not exactly know what the appointment was
worth, but the ' Civil Service ' sounds well, and she
thought it might have led to something grand and
worthy of Ronald.

Now his years of hard, tedious work and his prospects
were all gone, and lost through her fault ! How
could Mrs. Lascelles be so good to her ? If she only
knew all, she would not even speak to the wicked
cause of her son's misfortunes. And they were quite
beyond her power to remedy. She, poor girl, could do
nothing to make Ronald amends. She could not
compensate him for the years wasted and the hopes
dashed to the ground. Then a sudden thought
flashed across her mind. Money ! of course she had
money. Her mother had left her ten thousand
pounds ! Could she contrive to give it to him without
being found out ? A miserable four hundred a
year would of course not half make up for Ronald's
suffering and disappointments, but it would help to

make his life bearable, and to prevent his cursing
her too deeply. But how should she manage ? Her
father and Mr. Lascelles were the trustees, and she
believed that she could not deal with the capital
without their consent, which of course they would
not give. But she might send him the interest every
half-year anonymously, and let him know that he
might always reckon on it. For poor Edith now no
longer dared to think of the possibility which, a few
weeks before, had made her tell her first falsehood.
Of course, Ronald must hate her ; he could not do
otherwise. He would detest the very sight of her,
and it would, she thought, be a sore trial to him
that she should come to the Consulate to help in the
charade. But she was determined to drink her
bitter cup to its very dregs.

She would tell him how deeply she repented the
thoughtlessness which had had such grave consequences,
and she would beg his forgiveness. He

might be hard, and might not pardon her at once, but
at some future time, when he had got a good appointment,
he would think better of her for having told
him frankly and humbly of her great sorrow.

When Charley Woodall arrived at Portino he was
delighted with the prospect of fun held out to him.
All Saturday he and his sister, with Teresina, were
rummaging among old books, trying to find an appropriate
charade, or some little comedy which might be
cut down to the required dimensions. By the evening
they had discovered about a dozen that might do, if
altered and pruned, but not one which was absolutely
and certainly the right one.

Teresina proposed to take them home and let
Ronald look at them. ' You and Charley come in
after dinner,' she said, ' and then we will all consult
with mamma and Ronald. He is very clever about
such things.'

Edith only half consented. She might be willing

to come and rehearse, but she would not make herself
quite at home at the Consulate by walking in at all
hours. She pleaded that Mrs. Lascelles might not
like it, that probably Ronald should not be disturbed,
and so on. But as soon as Teresina showed her
bundle of little books to her mother, and reported
Edith's hesitation, old Luisa was sent off with a
pressing note which admitted of no refusal.

At eight o'clock Charley and Edith appeared in
the drawing-room at the Consulate. Both Mr. and
Mrs. Lascelles Avere present, and the latter had been
careful not to make the young girl uncomfortable.
Ronald was still upstairs, on a sofa in his father's
study, which had been appropriated entirely to his
own use. Young Donati was with him. So, after a
short chat, which turned entirely on the merits of the
pieces suggested, Mrs. Lascelles took the young
people upstairs.

Before so many eyes Edith could do nothing but

shake hands with Ronald, and hope he was better.
It went like a knife through her heart to feel how
thin and weak was that hand, which had pressed her
own with such warmth and strength when he handed
her into the carriage after the Donati's ball. The
room was not too brilliantly lighted — Ronald's sofa
was in the shadow. So she hoped that no one
noticed the deep blush she felt, in her endeavour to
make her greeting an ordinary one.

Thank you so much for the roses ; they have
been very sweet to me.' This was all that Ronald
said.

How good of him !' she thought. ' He conceals
his aversion, and is quite civil, because all the family
are here.'

Then the plays were discussed, and Ronald listened
to the discussions and threw in a word now and then.
By-and-by he became quite interested, and showed
them how one piece would not do, because it required

too many changes of scene, and another would be
unsuitable because they had not enough men.
Finally, he proposed adapting a short French
proverb.

But who will translate it ?' asked Teresina. ' I
don't know French enough, and I'm not sufficiently
clever.'

If you will do the actual writing, Teresina, I will
dictate,' said Ronald. ' I can do it capitally from the
sofa.'

The idea was received with acclamation, and it was
decided that the work should begin on Monday
morning. But the distribution of parts required
some thought. In the proverbe there was a hero and
his mother, a heroine and her father, and a comic
valet. After much discussion, in which Edith scarcely
joined, it was decided that Donati should play the
hero, Edith the heroine, Teresina the hero's mother'
and Stornello the heroine's father, while little Charley

should take the valet. Probably the cast would
have been different if Edith had not objected strongly
to play heroine to Stornello as premier amoureux.
She would not be suspected of flirting again, even in
fun, and with Stornello there might possibly be some
notion of the sort. Donati was too young for any
such suspicion. Teresina herself volunteered to act
the old lady, which she was much more likely to do
well than the enamoured heroine. Girls of sixteen
cannot, as a rule, act young parts as well as very old
ones. The interval between sixteen and nineteen is
very small in some respects, enormous in others.

The party separated in good spirits late at night
Only Edith had been quiet and subdued.

END OF VOL. I.

O^

BILLING AND SONS, Printers, GUILDFORD.

3 0112 084210696

OF THE

U University

Of Ill Noise

^>^i1^t£??^C£r:vFj'^;^:SN'rt; >feT

y i^^^^^i^i^iJ^^^t-Sfip^r^V^'

Jl ^obcl

WANDERER,

AUTHOR OF 'fair DIANA,' 'ACROSS COUNTRY,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON :

SWAN SONNENSCHEIN AND CO.,

PATERNOSTER SQUARE.

1885.

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

CHAPTER

XVII. THE PLUNGE
XVIII. THE STENTS ARE SURPRISED.
XIX. THE BANK

XX. LAST BACHELOR DAYS
XXI. THE LAST STRUGGLE
Xxii THE CHAPEL AT PORTING
Xxii SICILIAN DAYS

XXIV. THE STENTS SHOW THEIR CONFIDENCE
XXV. RICHMOND
XXVI. SUSPENSE
XXVII. FORGIVENESS
Xxviii THE VEHM
XXIX. A RUN
XXX. THE West-end


















CHAPTER XVII.

THE PLUNGE.

JBy dint of hard work, work which amused Ronald
without exciting him, the play was written out on the
Tuesday night, and the next day all the actors came
to copy their parts. The first rehearsal was fixed for
Thursday. Edith was gradually regaining confidence,
and found to her surprise that Ronald continued to
address her with the greatest cordiality, which even
she could hardly take to be assumed. She attributed
his kindness to his gentle and forgiving nature. She
VOL. IL 18

was consoled by the thought that he was inclined to
forget her flippancy and wickedness if he could,
and her appearance improved as her unhappiness
diminished. For Edith's face showed trouble at
once ; her eyes were transparent as the clearest
water, and she could seldom entirely conceal her
feelings, though she might do her best to repress
them.

On the Thursday afternoon, a sofa Alas moved into
the boudoir, and Ronald was carried downstairs in an
arm-chair. There Alas a good deal of fun and nonsense
over this first rehearsal, for not one of the actors
knew his or her part, except Teresina, who played the
worldly mother to perfection. Mrs, Lascelles was in
and out of the room during the rehearsal, and Ronald
watched it with much amusement from the sofa,
frequently interrupting the actors by his stage
directions, and prompting them continually. When
at last they had got through the piece, tea was brought

in, and Ronald was quite overwhelmed with attentions.
But Edith found herself alone with him Avhen Teresina
had dragged away the rest to the old disused nursery,
where all sorts of old rags, dresses, bits of carpet, and
other sundries were stored, out of which she wished
to make up the costumes for the play. Edith stayed
behind on purpose. She felt that she would not know
peace till she had begged Ronald's forgiveness. She
approached the couch timidly.

Mr. Lascelles,' she began, ' I have been wanting
to speak to you so much.'

Why Mr. Lascelles ?' asked Ronald, smiling. ' You
used to call me Ronald.'

I cannot now,' she said, blushing. ' Oh ! if you
only knew how sorry I am.'

Sorry for r\ie 1 There is no occasion, Edith dear.
I am getting on famously; I shall be about in a
fortnight.'

I don't mean only about your poor leg,' continued

18—2

Edith, clasping her hands. ' Oh, can you ever forgive
me ?'

What for ? What on earth do you mean ?' asked
Konald. ' Sit down and tell me all about it, Edith.'
He stretched out his hand to her, and pointed to a
chair by the sofa. * As well now as any other time,'
thought he.

Edith sat down, and looked at his thin face, still
drawn with pain. Her large blue eyes were full of
tenderness and pity ; there was a teardrop just
trembling on the long lashes, her lips were parted,
and the declining sun lighted up her fair hair with a
golden ray. She might have been the model for
Correggio's repentant Magdalen.

I was so foolish — so wicked !' she said at last, flushing.
' I flirted dreadfully with that horrid Marchese,
and answered pertly when you told me of it.'

But you threw him over afterwards, Edith, and we
made it up at supper ! Do you not remember V

He took her unresisting hand, and held it in a
gentle clasp.

Of course I remember !' replied Edith. ' I can
never forget that evening. You were very good, and
very kind ; and I was horrid to let that man go on
till he actually thought he had a right to dance with
me ! Oh, I know all about the duel, Ronald !'

Do you ?' asked he, still holding her hand ; ' who
told you ?'

I found it out — all out— gradually. I got *a bit
frcim one, and a bit from some one else, and put
them all together '

Like a Chinese puzzle ?' suggested Ronald.

How can you laugh about it ? It was too
dreadful. The Marchese insulted you on purpose,
and then you pretended to have a quarrel at the
Club '

We did have a quarrel at the Club,' interrupted
Ronald again.

It was all pretence, I know that. And then 3^011
went out and let the horrible man shoot at you, all
because I had been foolish and naughty. He might
have killed you.'

At the thought of what might have happened,
Edith withdrew her hand and raised her pocket-handkerchief
to her eyes. She was no coquette. If
she had been a little more experienced, she would
have known that tears did not suit her at all. Very
few faces are improved by them, and hers was
certainly not of the number.

Don't cry over it now,' said Ronald. ' You see he
did not kill me.'

'But he hurt you dreadfully, and you were so
generous that you would not shoot back ! If I had
been in your place, I am sure I should have shot him
dead.'

How could I kill a man for admiring you, Edith
dear? It is such a very pardonable offence. Of

course I was obliged to let him off. I should have to
make shambles of Portino if I once began killing
your admirers 1'

Now you are talking nonsense and laughing at me
again said Edith. ' You do not seem to care one
bit.'

Nor did he. That was the worst of it. For the
life of him, Ronald could not look at the situation
seriously. He was rather amused, and much
interested in watching Edith, and in giving her what
the French call la rSj^lique; but he spoke and felt as
if he were outside it all, and had not any real
practical concern in the matter.

Why should I care said he flippantly, ' now I am
getting all right again, and the nicest girl in Portino
comes on purpose to amuse me ? Lots of fellows
would envy my luck.'

Edith grew almost angry.

Yon keep making silly compliments when I am

trying to tell you how deeply sorry and grieved I am
for the mischief I have done. It is unkind. I shall
begin to fear that you will not forgive me, and that
you bear malice secretly, though you conceal it with
a lot of rubbishy fine speeches.'

Indeed,' said Ronald sincerely, 'you are wrong.
I do not think I have anything to forgive. This duel
has made me quite a notoriety in the place. Surely
such renown is worth so trifling a wound ?'

That is not all !' exclaimed Edith. ' Your mother
told me that they would not give you the leave you
asked for to get well. That is my fault, too ! Oh, I
only wish I had never gone to that ball! Fancy
having spoilt your v^hole life by my thoughtlessness !
How can I ever make up for it ?'

Yery easily, dear Edith,' said Ronald, calmly
taking advantage of the opening offered him, and
again clasping her hand. ' Yery easily indeed ; that
is, if you like.'

How?' asked Edith^eagerly. ' Of course I shall like.'

I am not quite sure of that answered Ronald.
You might not like, after all. In fact, I don't
see why you should.' He hesitated still before he
took the final plunge. There was still time to
retreat with all honours. He dropped again into his
bantering tone. ' And if you don't make up for it
that way, I am sure I shall never forgive you never —
never !'

You are laughing at me again, Mr. Lascelles,' said
Edith, trying to withdraw her hand. But Ronald
held it fast.

There is another crime ! Why, you will have to
pay a cumulative penalty ! sly father is Mr. Lascelles ;
my name is Ronald, and always has been since I
carried you pick-aback to Banbury Cross.'

You never thought that the little girl you played
with would send you to your death and destroy your
prospects.'

She has done neither. Prospects ?' said Ronald,
bitterly and seriously enough. ' Prospects ? pah ! I
never had any at Somerset House ; never could have
any, if I had stopped there twenty years. And as to
sending me to my death, why here I am, alive and
kicking — no, not exactly kicking. I can't kick at
present; but I shall, soon.'

Poor man ! and all my fault !' exclaimed Edith.
I believe you talk lightly of your prospects now,
because I have destroyed them. I believe you are
only laughing and talking nonsense to prevent my
thinking about my Wickedness. You make light of
it to relieve my mind. But you cannot do that,
however you may disguise your feelings.'

The conversation was drifting away from sentiment,
and Ronald felt that if he did not make an effort,
the chance would be lost. He could not hold her
hand much longer.

She looked very nice again, now that her tears

had dried. There was a delicate soft colour on her
cheeks, and as she had her back to the widow, the
nose was not particularly prominent. A few stray curls
were still lighted up by a golden sun. Her graceful
figure, stooping a little forward, was clad in a very
well-fittings dress of soft brown cashmere. Her snoAv-
white collar was scarcely Aliter than the little bit of
neck visible above it. There was a fascinating turn
in that slender neck as she looked away towards the
door for a moment, and a magnetic power about those
soft, downy curls by the small shell-like ear.

Positively, she was more than merely pretty,
thought Ronald. There was a tenderness and sweetness
about her he had never suspected. His mother's
plans were forgotten. If he had remembered them,
perhaps he would not have yielded to the impulse of
the moment. But surely the two would not have
been left so long: alone together unless there had been
some little scheming upstairs, beyond the scheming

necessary to make a few old rags do for stage
costumes.

Perhaps the design was a Kttle deeper and more
complicated than Ronald supposed. For the tune, at
any rate, he thought of no design, and his mind was
no longer troubled with doubts. The pretty head
against the light, the golden waves of hair, the
graceful figure, the slender hand clasped in his own,
the blue eyes gazing wistfully into space — seeking to
soothe the pain they had inflicted, to make good the
fancied damage they had done — these only were
before him. All else was nothing. Raising his head
from the pillow, he drew her towards him and placed
his lips close to her little ear,

You can make it all up to me, Edith dear,' he
whispered, and imprinted a soft kiss on the white
neck.

Ronald !' exclaimed the girl, as the blood rushed
to her face and rose up to the very roots of her hair.

She again attempted to withdraw her hand, but
perhaps she did not try very hard. At any rate she
did not succeed. ' This is cruel of you ! Let me go,
please,' she cried, for his arm had stolen round her
waist.

Why should you go, darling ?' he asked. ' Stay
with me, stay altogether. Be my wife, Edith, my dear-little
wife. I love you.'

He thought that he was speaking the truth. All
fears and doubts had fled when he drew her face to
his and covered it with kisses. At the moment he-believed
that if there had been no duel, no dismissal
from his post, no mother even, he would yet have
asked Edith Woodall to marry him, would have
clasped her in his arms and showered warm kisses on
her unresisting lips.

She was at first too surprised to speak, then his
kisses frightened her, and then — was she glad ? Aye,
with a joy that she had never dreamt of, with a

gladness far exceeding the timid thoughts of happiness
that had sometimes flitted through her girHsh
brain. Her heart Q^ave a Qrreat bound, and for a
short while she lay half-unconscious in Ronald's arms.
Her head fell on his neck, as he kissed the fair curls
and whispered loving words. At last she raised herself
by an effort, but not very far — only far enough to
look into his e3^es and murmur :

Do you mean it, Ronald ? or is it a dream ?'

A dream ! no indeed, darling, if you will marry a
poor fellow who has not even a home to offer you.'

Ronald !' she said softly, as the hot blood rushed
into her face, ' anywhere with you. Oh ! my dearest,
I am too happy. Is it true ?'

Then she bent over her lover, whose head had
fallen back on the sofa as a paroxysm of pain frown
the wound shot through his whole frame.

Darling !' she cried. ' Dear Ronald. You are
suffering again. What can I do for you ?'



Kiss me,' he said, faintly.

She stooped down and pressed her Hps against
his.

At the door of the boudoir stood a tall handsome
woman with grey hair. She had stepped across the
adjoining room noiselessly. A smile of triumph
lighted up her fine features as she saw Edith Woodall's
first kiss of love. She might have been a tragedy
queen, gloating over the destruction of a hated
rival — or only a loving mother rejoicing at her son's
happiness.

Mrs. Lascelles turned away gently.

Thank God,' she whispered, ' it is all settled. At
last ! Thank God !'

THE STENTS ARE SURPRISED.

At this Easter-time the hopes of George Stent were
realised, and a son was born to him. The Stent horses
were once more run off their legs, and their owners
were indefatigable in visits of inquiry. Mother and
child did as well as could be expected, and there was
never a cause for the slightest anxiety. Yet the palefaces
of even the male Tents grew paler when they
asked the traditional question twice daily, and the
traditional answer was welcomed by them with a sigh
of relief and returning colour. For although visits
at this period in the life of a young married couple
are generally paid by the ladies of the family, the

interest every Stent took in Clara was such that the
men all called at No. 300, Porchester Terrace, on their
way to and from the City.

For two whole days Throgmorton Street was without
George Stent. Business, however, went on as usual,
and neither the Committee of the Stock Exchange nor
the Governor of the Bank of England sent round
to inquire what was the matter. But, to George, the
decision to absent himself on two working days
appeared a portentous occurrence. It was early in
the morning, in the small hours, that the great event
happened, and before the milk came round the whole
clan knew it. Some came, and all sent to inquire
at once. The news spread rapidly, and was discussed
in every Stent household with the tea and
toast.

It is a boy ; Clara is getting on very well. But
George is not going to the City to-day !'

So ominous did the latter part of this announce-vol.

II. 19

ment appear to the Stent family, that it formed an
absorbing topic of conversation.

George is not going to the City ! Then,
after all, there must be something wrong. Clara
cannot really be getting on as well as they say ! Why,
Avhen Fred was born, William went to the City as
usual ! I always thought she was not very strong.
Did you notice how worn she looked last Saturday ?
She did a great deal too much !' and so on.

Events of the same nature were recalled, in order to
find a precedent for a Stent not going to his office
on such an occasion. But in vain. The Tents always
had gone to their offices. A little later perhaps, and
not until everything was comfortable at home, but
still they had gone. But George had at once, at an
early hour, announced to the first inquirers that he
was not going to the City. There must be something
very unusual to justify such a decision, and not one
of the many lady Tents could sit through her

breakfast quietly, so anxious were all to rush off to
Porchester Terrace and find out what was the
matter. But there was nothing the matter. George
had broken through old rules, and had shown himself
in the light of a ruthless reformer, without any
special cause for it. They did not blame him, for
one Stent seldom blamed another; they were perfection
in each other's eyes. They were surprised at
his boldness, and hoped that his business would not
suffer in consequence. They attributed this new
departure to George's romantic love for his wife.
For it had become a dogma in the clan that he
idolised Clara — as they expressed it, ' worshipped the
very ground she trod on.' Romeo was nothing to
him, and love of Leander for his Hero paled in comparison.
Therefore they were willing to forgive him,
and only hoped that nothing would go wrong in
the City. Nothing went wrong, and, notwithstanding
his romantic love, George could not bear more than

19—2

a two days' absence from his daily work. Then he
returned to the Stock Exchange, and once more
breathed freely. His wife was also relieved, and the
nurse was delighted. For during the past forty-eight
hours his fussy anxiety and his restlessness had driven
her nearly frantic.

Of course Mrs. Lascelles was much rejoiced to
hear of her daughter's well-doing and of the birth
of a grandchild. But on the whole the news did not
create so much excitement in the small family
circle at Portino as the intelligence which reached
Porchester Terrace very soon afterwards did among
the Tents. Little more had been said about Ronald.
When two Tents met, they would shake their heads
and allude to the young man with sad voices, as if he
were indeed a black sheep. At the family gatherings,
it was understood that his name should not be
mentioned. Occasionally, at long intervals, George
was asked in a constrained manner about his

brother-in-law's progress towards recovery. He
answered such questions with a measured coldness
which was understood by the other members of the
class. Then they would all look at each other
significantly, some turning up their eyeballs, some
frowning, some curling the lower lip, but all expressing
by intelligible signs, that as they were a reputable
Christian family, formal inquiries about the
health of a connection were of course necessary, but
no genuine interest could be taken in a person who
had committed so outrageous an act as to fight a
duel.

But very few days after the birth of the son and
heir — who was to be christened George — a letter
arrived from Portino for Clara. She was of course
upstairs when the postman came, and George Stent
had gone to the City. His instructions were that no
letters were to be given to his wife in his absence.
She must not tire her eyes by reading, nor be excited

by the contents of her correspondence, which might
not be suitable to her condition. Therefore, the day
deliveries were left on the slab in the hall for Mr.
Stent to examine on his return. In the Stent family
it was understood that all the wives opened letters
addressed to their husbands, and all the husbands
those addressed to their wives. That either of them
might have a correspondent who would object to his
or her letters being first read by one of the opposite
sex, was too delicate an idea to enter the head of a
Stent. So George took up the bundle of letters, and
when he had ascertained that his wife was quite well,
proceeded to open them systematically before he went
up to see her. He carefully cut open the envelopes
with a penknife, slowly extracted the contents, and,
after reading them deliberately, placed them on his
left, the unopened ones being on his right. There
were several notes to-day, good wishes from school-friends
who had seen the announcement in the Times,

many circulars from shops which supply babies with
various requisites, and so on ; but there was only
one letter from abroad, which George opened last, and
began perusing with the same calm deliberation. But,
as soon as he had read a few lines, George was fairly
startled out of his methodical calmness.

By Jove !' he exclaimed aloud ; * impossible \ Why,
it is perfectly absurd !'

He read on, and put the letter down with a fresh
expression of surprise.

That banker must be off his head I' he cried out.
Surely I must have made some mistake ; I will read
it again

He read again through four closely written pages.
This time he could only sit back in his chair and
wonder, Could such a thing be ?

Soon he rose from his chair and slowly ascended
the stairs, still marvelling greatly. He had time to
regain some composure before he knocked at the door

of his wife's room. After the usual tender inquiries,
which he made rather absently, he went into the
nursery,' as he said, to look at the baby.

Can Mrs. Stent bear some very surprising news,
do you think V he said to the nurse.

What sort of news, sir ? Good or bad ?' asked Mrs.
Dutton sharply. She hated Mr. Stent coming to fuss
about and fidget, as if she were not able to look after
her own lady,' and she was always anxious to get rid
of him as soon as possible.

Well, I suppose it is good news,' replied Mr. Stent
after some hesitation.

Then certainly tell her, sir ; it will please her and
liven her up.*

'But I am not quite sure whether she' will be
pleased. At least,' he added, with unusual frankness,
' I can't quite make up my mind about it
myself.'

Bless your heart, sir, what is it then ? Queer news.

I should think, if you can't decide whether it's good
or bad. My lady must not be upset, but she's very
well ; and if there's good news from home, it will make
her all the stronger.'

You are quite sure it will not hurt her ?' Mr. Stent
again asked. ' It is very surprising ; she might be
startled.'

Break it gently to her, sir. Tell her you've got
some good news for her, and then it won't do no harm,'
said Mrs. Button, ostentatiously warming some Hen
at the fire to give Mr. Stent a hint that he might
retire. George's last experiment in breaking things
gently to his wife had not been brilliantly successful.
He still delayed going into her room.

Shall / tell her, sir ?' asked Mrs. Button, anxious
to get rid of him. ' Let me know what it is, and 1^11
tell it all right, no fear.'

No, thank you,' replied George, aroused to a sense
of his dignity. For the first time he forgot to look at

the baby, and to admire its shapeless face and baldhead,
before returning to his wife.

There is a letter for you from your mother, Clara,'
he said. ' She writes in excellent spirits and sends
good news.'

Oh ! I am so glad !' exclaimed Clara. ' What does
she say ? Read me the letter, George.'

'I know it almost by heart,' he answered, still
afraid of startling her too much. ' I can tell you all
about it.'

Do, then !' cried Clara.

You will be surprised. Don't get excited over it,
whatever ^^ou do.'

Please don't worry, George !' said she ; ' I am quite
well. What is it ?'

But you promise to be calm*, Clara. Remember
your health and the baby !'

You will drive me into a fever if you go on like
this. Give me the letter !'

No, you must not hurt your eyes by reading it.
Your mother's writing is not very distinct, and she
uses thin paper.'

Then tell me at once, and have done with it. For
goodness' sake don't beat about the bush any longer,
George,' cried she impatiently.

Your brother is engaged to be married,' said Mr.
Stent, at last obliged to let his rocket off.

Engaged ! To whom ?'

Guess ! — to Miss Woodall !'

To Clara Woodall ! Oh, I am so glad, George ;
she is such a dear creature.'

So I believe,' said Mr. Stent coldly.

And I should think it would be a capital match,'
added Clara. ' She is well off, I know.'

It is so good a match that I am quite at a loss to
understand it,' replied Mr. Stent.

Why ?' asked Clara. ' Ronald may have been a little
imprudent, but he is the dearest, best brother that

ever was ; and he deserves a very good wife. Oh, I
am so glad,' she said again. ' Read me mamma's
letter, please.'

Mr. George Stent sat down by his wife's bedside,
turned his chair till he got a convenient light, and
slowly opened Mrs. Lascelles' letter, while his wife's
eyes sparkled with pleasure and impatience. He read
very distinctly and deliberately. When he had
finished, he replaced the letter in the envelope, and
said:

Now, what do you think, Clara ? Is it not
extraordinary ?*

Not at all,' replied she ; ' it is quite natural.'
To me it appears almost incredible !' exclaimed
George — ' that Mr. Woodall, of Woodalls' Bank, should
have consented to his only daughter marrying your
brother !'

George, how can you speak like that ? Our family is
quite as good as theirs ! You will make me very angry.'

I beg your pardon, Clara ; I forgot that you were
not well. Do not agitate yourself, I beg of you.
Still the affair appears to me most singular.'

She seems to be very fond of Ronald,' said
Clara.

'I should have thought that she would be more
sensible,' remarked Mr. Stent, who could not repress
his ill-humour. ' I made the young lady's acquaintance
at Portino, and formed a very high opinion of
her.'

You were right about Edith, George ; but you are
very unfair to Ronald. You have been vexed with
him, poor fellow, ever since that horrid duel.'

'Clara, my dear, how could I do otherwise than
disapprove so improper and inhuman an action ?'

What was left of the Lascelles' spirit in Clara was
now roused, and the discussion threatened to become
more acute, perhaps even to develop into a domestic
quarrel, when Mrs. Button entered the room.

Now, ma'am,' she said, ' you have been talking
quite long enough. It's high time you should be quiet
for a bit, or you'll get feverish. You've heard the
good noose ' (which Mrs. Dutton had also picked up
by judicious listening at the door), ' and you'd better
sleep on it for an hour. Please to go downstairs, sir,'
she added imperatively to George. He slunk away
without another word. In fact he already feared that
his expressed dislike to Ronald might have hurt
Clara's feelings.

While his wife was confined to her room, George
was in the habit of dining in turn with his father and
one or other of his brothers. To-day he was going to
Mr. Stent senior. By his wife's request, he had left
Mrs. Lascelies' letter with the rest of her correspondence,
on her table, but he knew every word of the
important communication. The servant helped him
on with his coat ; he gave orders that Mr. John Stent,
Mr. William Stent, and Mr. William A. Stent

should be informed that he was dining at his father's
house, and wished they would come round there after
dinner. There was no occasion to write notes. It
was so usual for the various members of the family to
send for each other, that messages of this description
were part of the servants' daily work.

You look anxious to-night, George,' said his father,
while they were eating their soup. * There is nothing
wrong in the City, is there V

For, of course, long before they had sat down, the
inquiries about Clara had been answered satisfactorily.


Nothing at all,' replied George ; ' but I have something
to tell you after dinner.'

This answer was sufficient to arouse the curiosity
not only of George's father and mother, but also of
the servants, and the respectable old butler determined
to hear the news as soon as his master. Before the
dessert was placed on the table, the clansmen began

to assemble. They had all cut their dinners short to
respond the sooner to the trumpet-call.

What have you to tell us, George V asked the head
of the family, as soon as the door was closed on the
last arrival. ' Something about young Ronald Las-celles,
I suppose ?'

You are right, father,' replied George ; ' you will
be much surprised.'

Some new folly, I presume,' said the old man.
*I shall be surprised at nothing that young man
does.'

George Stent smiled a thin smile.

I am quite sure this news will astonish you all
exceedingly. You know Woodalls, of course ?'

Woodalls the' bankers V asked Mr. William Stent.

The same. They have a house in Portino, you
remember ?'

Oh yes 1' replied Mr. John Stent ; ' I met Woodall
there when I went to your wedding, George.'

Precisely ; they stand very well in the City, I
think said George.

Of course they do,' answered Mr. Stent, senior ;
quite the top of the tree, I should say. They do a
great deal of foreign business, now that the Italians
are getting on so well. Thoroughly reputable people,
and very wealthy.'

So I have always understood,' said George. * Rule
and Tompkins are their brokers, and I believe that the
Woodall orders almost keep them.'

What has this got to do with young Lascelles ?'
asked William Stent ; * has he forged a cheque on
them ?'

No,' answered George ; ' quite the reverse. He is
engaged to Edith Woodall, the junior partner's
daughter.'

Good gracious !' came from Mrs. Stent, senior, the
only lady present. * What a lucky young man !'

Impossible !' cried old Mr. Stent.

VOL. II. 20

Surely there is some mistake I' suggested John
Stent.

Why, Woodall must be mad !' said William Stent.

'So I think. But the news appears to be true
enough. Mrs. Lascelles writes fully to Clara. I have
left the letter at home, but I can tell you every word
of it. It is too circumstantial to leave any room for
doubt.'

Do you mean to say that Mr. Woodall has
consented to allow his daughter to marry that young
reprobate ?' asked Mr. Stent, senior,

'Not only has he consented,' answered George,
but he has promised to make Ronald a partner, if a
six months' trial in the London Bank should be
satisfactory.'

That is extraordinary ! most extraordinary,' said
William.

Not so very curious, after all,' remarked John, after
a minute's silence ; ' the old man knows that young

Lascelles cannot keep steady for six weeks, much less
for six months, and it is a dodge to get rid of him.'

Ah !' cried George, ' that is quite a revelation tome
; possibly that may be the real explanation of the
matter. The girl, no doubt, is very much in love with
Ronald. It seems that he fought that duel for her
sake.'

And she has been carried away by silly Italian
notions,' said Mrs. Stent. ' Not at all surprising ; she
has no mother, has she ?'

No,' answered George ; * Mrs. Woodall died several
years ago.'

Poor thing ! so there was nobody to take care of
her, and she fell in love with the first handsome good-for-nothing
fellow who paid her attention.'

But you have not yet told us everything, George,'
remarked Mr. Stent, senior. ' Let us hear all about it.'

It is simple enough. Ronald has proposed to Miss
Woodall; she has accepted him, and her father has

20—2

consented to the engagement. They are not to be
married till the autumn, and meanwhile he is to come
here and learn banking in Lombard Street. Mrs.
Lascelles says that if he likes it after six months, he
is to be made a partner directly after the wedding,
and will take charge of the Portino house and all the
Italian agencies.'

If he likes it !' repeated Mr. William Stent, with a
sneer; ' that means, I suppose, if the London Woodall
likes Ifiim, which is not very probable, I fancy.'

Not very,' said George, smiling ; ' I should think
that my respected brother-in-law would be about the
last person a London banker would choose as a
partner.'

I should think so, indeed,' remarked John.

Well, and if the trial should not be satisfactory,
what then ?' asked Mr. Stent, senior. ' Does Mrs.
Lascelles contemplate that contingency also ?'

Oh yes replied George ; ' it seems to be all cut and

dried. She tells Clara that if her brother does not like
the City '— (' Ha, ha !' came from Mr. John Stent, who
murmured, ' I wonder how the City will like him !') —
then they are to be married all the same, and Mr.
Woodall will make them an allowance.'

And the young man will do nothing V asked
William.

Except gamble and fight duels,' suggested John.

No,' George answered ; ' in that case Mr. Lascelles
will ask for some Government appointment abroad,
some vice-consulate or other post, which they will
hardly be likely to refuse, as he has some good friends.
You see everything seems to have been provided for ;
we cannot possibly doubt the correctness of the
information.'

How old is the girl ? She has nothing in her own
right, of course ?' asked Mr. Stent, senior.

She is two-and-twenty, and she has ten thousand
pounds of her own,' replied George.

This was the concluding bouquet to the fireworks
he had let off. Ten thousand pounds, an allowance,
and a share in a prosperous bank! — all for that
dissipated and foolish young man !

Some people are very lucky,' observed William.

Some have to work very hard for years before they
can scrape together half of what this young man will
get without any trouble,' remarked John.

'What do you think Woodalls make in a year,
father ?' asked George.

The old man considered the matter for a few
moments. * It is very difficult to tell,' he answered.
They are doing very well now, and I have never
heard of their losing any large amounts since '59,
when they had some little trouble for a few months,
but nothing to shake them. Edward Woodall, the
senior partner, has a fine house at Wimbledon.'

That is the brother of the Portino Woodall, I
suppose ?'

Yes continued Mr. Stent ; ' his elder brother.
The third one died some years ago, leaving a couple
of little girls. I think Edward has no children,
but he must spend four or five thousand a year at
least.*

Then, at that rate, the fii-m must be making quite
ten thousand V asked George.

Much more than that, I should think,' replied Mr.
Stent. ' Edward Woodall is not the man to spend all
his profits, and I don't suppose he holds more "than
half share.'

What a magnificent opening for your brother-in-law
!' exclaimed William A. Stent, who had been silent
during the greater part of the evening.

Splendid !' assented George.

But the young fool will not take advantage of it,
said John. ' You may be sure that he will leave the
Bank long before the six months are over.'

I doubt it,' said Mr. Stent, senior ; ' 1 think he is

sharp enough to keep well in with them, at least till
he is a partner.'

It is very likely said William A. Stent, who had
always had a sneaking weakness for Ronald.

I am sure he will be quite steady,' Mrs. Stent
observed. Ladies, even old ladies, could not be very
hard on so good-looking and pleasant a young
man.

Now the question is, what are we to do ?' asked
George. ' Of course I shall write to congratulate him at
once. As he is my brother-in-law, I am obliged to do
that much, whether I approve of him or not.*

Of course,' chimed in the Stent chorus.

But shall we take him up again V asked George.
'• He will be coming over here shortly, I suppose, and
we must make up our minds as to the course to be
pursued.'

We must all write and congratulate,' said Mrs.
Stent decisively.

I do not know about that, mother,' objected John
Stent ; * the young man is very reckless, foolish, and
extravagant.'

We can scarcely approve of him yet, can we V
asked William Stent doubtfully.

But if we do not write, and don't ask him to
dinner, and that sort of thing,' said Mr. Stent,
senior, ' we shall be putting ourselves all wrong with
Woodalls.'

Let us wait and see how he behaves,* suggested
John.

We can't wait,' declared Mrs. Stent. ' Either we
take him up at once, or we drop him for good. Is it
not so, George ? It will never do to treat him coldly
now, and to turn very civil when he is a partner in
the Bank. It would look so bad, and make people
talk.'

I cannot drop him,' said George. ' Clara would be
vexed.'

Of course she would. She would have a right to
be angry assented his mother.

But it does not follow that we should all congratulate
him, and ask him to dinner,' observed John.

Not at all,' said William. ' He is not out brother-in-law.'


Boys !' exclaimed Mr. Stent, senior, ' do not let us
differ about this matter. Remember, though young
Lascelles is not a Stent, he is a connection of the
Tents. He is about to make a most excellent
marriage. George and his wife must, of course, be
delighted. In fact we are all very pleased, are we
not?'

John and William did not look particularly pleased,
but they murmured assent. William A. Stent was
genuinely delighted. Mrs. Stent beamed approval on
her husband.

Well,' continued the old man, * we are bound to be
glad that the young man has turned over a new leaf

Stent and Cowcroft are not so big as Woodalls ; and
Stent Brothers are a young firm. We must not set
ourselves up against the Bank.'

Certainly not,' echoed his sons and nephew.

Then let us put a good face upon it continued he.
We will hope that he will become a partner. If he
does not, it appears that he will marry Miss Woodall
nevertheless, and go abroad. Well, in that case we
shall not have lost anything, for we shall be able to
drop them easily enough.'

So we shall !' said the chorus.

I do not say that / would have allowed Ronald
Lascelles to marry a daughter of mine,' continued Mr.
Stent ; ' but, after all, this is Mr. Woodall's business,
not mine. If he is good enough for the Bank, he
ought to be good enough for Stent and Cowcroft, and
for Stent Brothers.'

True, father.' ' Very true, uncle,' came from
different quarters.

You know, the young man may turn out much
better than we expect,' concluded Mr. Stent.

He may, indeed,' assented George ; * though I
hardly dare hope so. But, of course, it is my duty to
be cordial to him, and I propose doing my duty to its
fullest extent.'

After all, it was only a youthful error,' observed
William A. Stent.

He has made up for it, certainly, by this excellent
marriage,' said John.

'He was very clever to manage it,' remarked
William.

Very,' assented the father. ' Then it is settled.
We shall all write to congratulate, and I will call at
the Bank tomorrow and wish Mr. Edward Woodall

I wish him all happiness,' said William A.
Stent.

So do 1/ remarked John.

'I trust they will both be very happy observed
William.

I am sure they will,' said Mrs. Stent. * God bless
them !'

Thus was the seal of the Stent approval solemnly
affixed to Ronald's engagement.

THE BANK.

So warm were the congratulations of all his friends
anti of many whom he scarcely knew, that Ronald
soon believed himself to be the happiest of men.
Mr. Woodall was cordial and kind even beyond Mrs.
Lascelles' most sanguine hopes. The banker had
long felt the want of young and energetic assistance
in the business. He was beginning to weary of the
details, and to wish to be relieved of much work which
no clerk could do and which yet must be done. He
had always liked Ronald, and Ronald had done
nothing to forfeit his friendship. Of course he might
have been better pleased if his daughter had chosen

a man of position and property. But such a man
might not have fallen in so easily with his views.
Ronald was possessed of good abilities ; he was a good
son, and had grown up, so to say, almost under Mr.
Woodall's eyes. He was willing and anxious to work
hard, and to work in such a manner as his father-in-law
might direct. He had always been popular in
Portino, and his duel had made him quite a hero.
He understood the ways of the people, and had been
used to Italians from his infancy. An English banter,
however experienced in the City, would inevitably
make some mistakes at first if he had to undertake
the conduct of the Portino house. He would not
have the patience to spend hours chatting with the
voluble natives, even if he possessed the power of
conversing fluently in Italian, which was then rarer
than it is now. He would certainly offend people by
insular stiffness, and possibly be deceived by southern
plausibility. Such a man might indeed introduce

capital, but the firm was not in want of capital, for
Mr. Woodall was too cautious to entertain schemes
which he could not control. Therefore, after duly
weighing the matter, the banker concluded that any
objection he might raise to the engagement would be
ill-founded. There was absolutely nothing against
Ronald except his want of means, and this would be
compensated for by his work and his talents. Besides
the points already mentioned in his favour, was the
all-important circumstance that Edith loved him very
dearly. So much Mr. Woodall knew almost with
certainty even before Ronald came to call.

It was on the morning following that first rehearsal
that a carriage drew up at the Bank. On the box was
the factotum Gasparoo by the side of the coachman.
Inside were Ronald and Teresina, who had been very
willingly pressed into the service, though she knew
not why her brother was in such a hurry to go to the
Bank. Gasparoo inquired whether Mr. Woodall could

receive his young master, and the banker himself came
cut to help the wounded man into his office. Here
Konald sent Teresina back to wait for him in the
carriage, and at once began by telling Mr. Woodall
that he had proposed to Edith on the previous evening
and had been accepted, subject to her father's
consent. This condition had not, however, been
mentioned by the young lady. In her bliss, she had
forgotten all about it. It was an after-thought of
Ronald's own, and a very successful one. The result
of the conversation was eminently satisfactory, as the
reader already knows. Mr. Woodall spoke at once
very cordially. He was glad that the son of his oldest
friend, one to whom he owed more than he could ever
repay, should have been accepted by his dear
daughter. There was no occasion, he said, for Ronald
to tell him of his position and prospects, as of course
he knew all about them. He might possibly have
found a richer man for his laughter, but he could
VOL. II. 21

scarcely lithe found one whom he himself liked so
well. Ronald might be sure of his consent. As to
the future, he would think matters over, discuss them
with Mr. Lascelles, and then himself come and see
Ronald, who must not imperil his recovery by again
venturing out. Gasparoo and Teresina were summoned
to help him back into the carriage, and on their way
Ronald delighted his young sister by telling her that
he was engaged to Edith.

As has appeared from Mrs. Lascelles's letter to
Clara, Mr. Woodall kept his word, and proposed the
handsomest possible arrangements for his daughter.
Charley would of course eventually become a partner,
but he was only fourteen, and Mr. Woodall had no
intention of sending him to Lombard Street for seven
years at least. Mr. Edward Woodall, the elder
brother, was anxious to retire from active business,
and wished Mr. Woodall of Portino to take his place.
Thus, matters could be arranged in the most satisfactory

inane'. Both the seniors woiild leave their
capital in the firm, and Mr. Edward Woodall would
give up the portion of the profits he had hitherto
drawn as payment for his work. Later on,
when Charley was old and experienced enough,
this father would make a similar concession to
him.

The discussion of all these plans, and the charade,
which was by no means abandoned, left Ronald very
little time for introspection. Edith was an admirable
n-arse, and no\y that she could look after him he progressed
rapidly. The performance vv'as postponed for a
Aveek to allow for more rehearsals, and the number cf
people invited gradually increased till it included
everyone who had ever left a card at the Consulate.
It vv^as understood to be a party in honour of Ronald's
engagement, and the event created far more interest
than engagements generally do. Charley Alas kept a-,
home three days longer to be able to perform hi;i

rvm>ivonamo>s

part. Konald was able to sit in a steamer clair, and
witness the performance from the front row. He was
siTiTounded by friends from very early in the evening,
and scarcely ceased shaking hands for a moment.
Not till the curtain had fallen amidst loud and
general applause did Edith's friends in turn obtain a
chance of wishing her joy ; for she was stage-manager,
and the entrance to the green-room had been carefully
guarded by Mrs. Lascelles herself. When at
last the guests had all departed, and Konald had
boon helped back to his room, he confessed to himself
that being engaged was much pleasant than he had
expected.

Another agreeable surprise was prepared for him
on the next day : Mr. Woodall called before dinner,
and asked to be left alone with Konald for a few
minutes.

My dear Ronald,' said he, ' I want to ask you a
question ; you must not be offended.'

Of course not, sir,' replied the young man ; * what
is it ?'

'I know you have been in London several years,
and that your father has not been able to make you
as large an allowance as he would have wished. Now
tell me frankly, have you not a few unpaid bills and
accounts you would like to settle ?'

To tell you the truth, sir, I have ; but the amount
is not large, and as my father has generously offered
to continue my allowance for the present, I think
that I shall be able to pay them off in less than a year.

Better settle them at once, Ronald. I will help
you. AVhat is the total V

Something under two hundred pounds, sir,'
answered Ronald, after a little thought.

Not more ? are you quite sure ?'

Quite sure,' replied he, after considering again ;
rather less, I think. I could tell you exactly in a
few minutes.'

I would prefer to know the exact sum said Mr.
Woodall ; ' I like accuracy.'

Then, will you be good enough to hand me that
desk, sir ?' said Ronald. ' I am not allowed to move
from the chair yet.'

Mr. AVoodall did so, and took up the newspaper
while Ronald ran through his hills.

A hundred and eighty-seven,' said he, after a few
minutes.

There is nothing else V asked Mr. Woodall.

Nothing,' answered Ronald.

Very good. I am glad that you have been so careful
; it promises well for the future, my boy. Now, I
am going to give you a cheque for three hundred.
You will pay me back some day, Avhen you draw larger
profits out of the firm than you know what to do with,
or you may call it a present, if you like. You are
sure to want a little money when you go to London, so
just pass me that pen. Thank you. Here you are.'

This was very pleasant; for, to tell the truth,
Ronald had been sorely exercised in his mind about
the next six months, and about the period which must
intervene before he could draw anything from the
Bank, even if he were accepted as a partner by Mr.
Edward Woodall. Now, with the allowance from his
father, he would get on all right till he was
married.

A tranquil mind and the best of nursing soon restored
him entirely. Before the first hot days of 'May
he could walk about with a stick ; and when the
Woodalls besfan to think of moving; to their villa in
the mountains, he declared himself ready to go to
London. Edith did not contemplate his long absence
without anxiety. She was too modest, and had too
low an opinion of her own attractions, to be absolutely
certain of her power over him ; on the other hand, she
thought Ronald the handsomest, bravest, and best of
men, and therefore supposed that every other girl

thought the same. And he had more than once, even
when they were alone together, shown that flippant
humour which she hardly understood and always
disliked. So she not only grieved at the prospective
separation, but feared its consequences.

She need not have been alarmed. Eonald plunged
into the City work with all the energy of which he
was capable, with far more than he had ever displayed
before in anything except sports. His leg was Avell,
but still weak ; and he could not play cricket, nor ride,
nor walk very much. He arrived when the season
was already well advanced, and he could not walk
about paying visits to remind his old friends of his
existence. So he was invited far less frequently than
in previous years, and he was glad, for it fatigued him
to be obliged to stand about in crowded rooms, when
all the chairs were occupied by ladies, or to sit for
two hours in one position at dinner. In the City he
could move from a chair to a stool, and from the

latter to an arm-chair ; for they were very kid at the
Bank, and knew of his wound, and Mr. Edward
Woodall did everything to make him comfortable.
In fact, the two struck up a friendship at once. The
sinister prophecies of the Tents where signally falsified.
At the first glance he had been inclined to doubt the
industry of the handsome young fellow, who came
limping into the office dressed in the extreme of
fashion, and with a flower in his button-hole ; but
when he saw that Ronald never took his eyes off Ic
books, nor ceased for a moment to work till the last
customer had cleared out and the last rough cash-book
was closed, that he was keenly alive to all that
went on, and never seemed to weary of learning the
details of the business, he rapidly got over his
prejudice, which in reality had lived only a few hours.
The fact was that Ronald was very determined to
master the business, and to think of nothing else till
he had done so. He made up his mind that he would

not be an ornamental partner. He had hesitated long
before proposing to Edith, and he had been afraid of
her money influencing his decision. At any rate, Mr.
Woodall should find out that he had not made a bad
bargain, and that his generosity would be bestowed
on a thoroughly deserving object. He would endeavour
to earn the money he received from the
Bank, so that it might never be said that he. was unworthy
of a position obtained only because he had
married Mr. Woodall's daughter.

With such resolutions, it was not a matter of surprise
that he should progress rapidly in the senior partner's
favour. Ronald had seen quite enough of London
and London life to be able to resist most of the temptations
which beset young men when they enter the
City ; his tastes and character saved him from others ;
and the only ones to which he was accessible, the
attractions of society, hardly tempted him this
summer, as he was physically incapable of joining in

many amusements. So there was nothing whatever
to hinder the execution of his resolves. Mr. Wooclall
asked him down to Wimbledon from Saturday till
Monday even before he had been in England a week.
He accepted, and found a very comfortable house
surrounded by beautiful gardens. The banker was a
very jovial fellow, and his wife made everyone feel at
home directly. Some other people were stopping
there : a rising barrister and his wife, and one of the
best-known artists of the day. For the house was
full of pictures, and Mr. Woodall devoted all his spare
time and much of his spare money to improving his
collection. Ronald was quite in his element, and the
society he met at Heath Lodge (as Mr. Woodall's
place was modestly called), on this and subsequent
visits, was quite congenial. There was seldom a bore
amongst them ; most of the guests were distinguished
in some way, and though the master of the house was
an old man, he remembered what his own tastes had

been in former years, and the younger men lead a
billiard-room in which they could play or smoke, as
long and as often as they liked.

Ronald was not neglected by the Tents. George
called at the Bank very soon after his arrival in
London. Although everything had turned out so
well, there was still a certain sore feeling on both
sides on the subject of the Somerset House embassy
donald thought that his brother-in-law had been both
clumsy and unkind, if not intentionally malicious,
while, since the receipt of Mr. Lascelles' letter on the
subject, George Stent had had a few misgivings as to
whether he had really not exceeded his duty by telling
Mr. Charteris about the duel. As a rule, the Tents
never repented anything they did, because, as they
proudly boasted, they never did anything they could
be sorry for. If Ronald had proceeded on the downhill
course the clan prophesied for him after the duel,
of course George would have applauded his own

wisdom and that of his family. But, as it happened,
the contrary had occurred. Ronald had at a hound
secured for himself a position which even a Stent
might envy, and George was conscious of having
strained his duty to abuse a man who might soon bo
more powerful and more influential (in the Stent City
world of course) than himself. This feeling was
quickened by a remark of his father's, which showed
that the old man either forgot or chose not to
remember his own share in the Stent congress.

You were rather too quick, George,' Stent senior
said, '■ about going to that official at Somerset House
and telling him about the duel. You made a mistake
there !'

If the joint and several responsibility of the
clan were thus to be destroyed, what remained in the
world ? In whom could he then have faith ; in whom
could he trust ? Was this the rift in the lute, or was
it only a little bit of forgetfulness of the old man ?

Probably the latter, as neither he nor any other
member of the clan alluded to the matter again.
They all agreed to worship the rising sun, and of
course George was the first to bow down before the
altar — that is, the counter of Woodalls' bank. When
ho asked for Mr. Lascelles, he quite expected to be
shown into a private room and to find his 
seated comfortably opposite Mr. Edward. Such
was not the case. A clerk pointed with his pen
towards one of the numerous desks surrounded by
ground glass ; this particular one was painted ' Bills
payable.' George had to knock at the glass himself,
as nobody seemed to pay any further attention to him.
Donald popped his head out sideways. Here was an
unlooked-for chance to ' sit on ' George.

'How do, George ?' said Ronald, nodding; ' Clara well T
Very well indeed, thank you, and your nephew
also,' answered George with studied cordiality. ' Why
have sou not come to Porchester Terrace ?' ^

Bad leg, yr)u know ; very busy in the day, and
glad to rest in the evening.'

But you'll come and see your sister soon, won't
you ?' asked George , with a sudden and awful fear
coming over him. Perhaps, while the Tents had
been debating whether they should take Ronald up,
Ronald had decided to cut ilte.m I That would have
been carrying the war into the enemy's country with
a vengeance. Ronald's answer was not reassuring.

Oh yes, Til come some day. Hawkins and Co.
£243 Ins. 4d., did you say ?' turning to his neighbour
in the next desk ; ' all right.' Then his head disappeared
behind the glass, and he was busy entering
figures in his book, as if the Tents did not exist.
After waiting for some minutes, during which his
anxiety grew intense, George knocked again.

You will come soon, won't you, Ronald ? Clara is
very anxious to see you. Will you dine with us on
Thursday ?'

No, thanks, I'm engaged. Just pass me that bundle
of bills, Fletcher ' (to his neighbour again), ' thank you.
Westropp and Bailey, £52 Is. 6d. on olive oil ; I
don't see the policy of insurance. Ta-ta, George,' with
.n. condescending nod, when George at last gave it upas
a bad job and said ' Good-bye.'

He walked back to ' the House ' in a very disturbed
frame of mind. Of course he made up his mind that
Ronald was not really so busy, and that all this deep
absorption in his work was ' put on.^ But still the
huge room at Woodalls', the wide mahogany counter
With its brass edges, the many clerks, the incessant
coming and going of customers, the shovelling about
of o^old as if it were so much dirt — all this, though he
had seen it often and often before, made a great
impression on him. For hitherto he had been merely
one of the crowd, and was glad to have five minutes
with the manager and to get away again. But now
there was his brother-in-law in the very thick of the

work, already initiated, and shortly to become one of
those whom merchants asked to see with fear and
trembling ; who could make or mar a firm by a few
words ; who held the fates of many old houses in
their hands. Every effort must be made to secure
him ; Ronald must not be allowed to forget the
Tents.

VOL. 11. 22

LAST BACHELOR DAYS.

Ronald wrote regularly twice a week to Edith. Here
is one of his letters :

190, Brook Street, Grosvenor Square,
July sith, 186—.

Dearest Edith,

Many thanks for your charming letter of 20th,
which I received yesterday. I am glad you like
Bagnuoli. I liaA^e not been there since I was a little
boy, and almost forget what it is like. All I can
remember is scrambling about the rocks and barking
my knees dreadfully. I had bare legs in those days.
This reminds me to answer your inquiries about mine.

I am getting on very well indeed, thank you, and can
now walk steadily for several hours without any
pain. Last Saturday I even played croquet at Heath
Lodge. But I find it most convenient to have " a leg,"
and I shall keep up as long as I can ; for it gives
me an excuse to refuse a lot of invitations to dull
dinners. The Tents have made a regular set at
me ; they seem determined that I should dine with
one or other of them every week. This is more
than I can stand, so I have pleaded my leg and
have got off so far. As people are now leaving town
fast, I hope I shall get off altogether. AVhat a blessing
that we shall live at Portino and not in London !
For if it were otherwise how could we avoid the
Tents ? And they would soon drive me to Maxwell
or to a rupture ; both would be disagreeable, but
Maxwell would be better than the Tents. Of course,
I have seen Clara often. I go there from the Bank, at
about five o'clock, when she is generally alone, or at

22—2

any rate when there is no member of her husband's
family about. If there is, I don't go in, havinj.^
e.'^tabKshed an understanding with the footman by
means of half-crowns. My nephew is healthy, but
very ugly — quite a Japanese likeness of his father.

With your Uncle Edward I get on capitally, and I
think he likes me. He is a dear, kind old gentleman,
and gets very funny over his bottle of port. He has
taught me to like it ; but I must not take more than
one glass, so he has to get through the rest, which ho
does not seem to mind. When I dine there he says
to your aunt : " Ronald rather likes that '84 ; we'll
treat him to a bottle," and she smiles and says
'' Ronald shall have it, certainly ;" and then we loolv at
each other and laugh, for the good old soul knows
that I only sip one glass, and that your uncle wants
it for himself. It is a pious fraud all round. Last
week there were a lot of people there, among them
Claude Deshamel, whose picture at the Academy has

astonished everyone. He is a very clever chap, and
as pleasant as he is clever. We made great friends, and
I hope he will come to see us at Portino when wc
have settled down, as he goes to Italy almost every
winter. There were some old friends of yours there
too — Mr. and Mrs. Dodington ; she spoke very nicely
of you. It seems that you were at school together —
her name was Carson, and she sends you her best love
and a number of pretty messages which I have
forgotten.

You ask how I like the work. On the whole, much
better than I expected. Very soon I shall have got
through the drudgery. I was determined to learn it
thoroughly, so I asked your uncle to stick me outside
among the clerks, and let me work for a time in all the
different places. It was very bewildering at first, as you
have to add and subtract and think while people are
talking all round you and the doors are Swinging
incessantly. The continual noise used to Avorry me,

but now I am hardened, and do not not mind it at all.
What I have found out is, that I shall not be fit to
take charge of the Portino branch in six months. I
do not wish to take such a responsibility till I really
know the business, and a year at least must elapse
before I do. So I hope when a certain event comes
off that your father will let me continue my
apprenticeship a little longer. Best love to him, and
don't forget to remember me to Marietta. Farewell,
dear. Many kisses from your loving

Ronald.'

Except for the last line, this letter might well have
been written to a male friend. Ronald felt that he
was not writing love-letters ; often he even forgot to
add the ' many kisses,' and had to put them in a postscript.
He could not help it. Edith's letters to him
were simple, sweet, and affectionate ; but of course she
involuntarily took her tone from his own, and expressed

herself with less warmth than she might have done if
he had set her the example. Ronald always felt that he
would be glad if Edith were by his side. He missed
her greatly ; the remembrance of his long talks with her
made him feel the usual London conversation very
flat and wearisome. She had never bored him ; other
people, even pretty girls, often did. He could talk
about anything with her without fear of being
misunderstood; he could say whatever came uppermost
without being misinterpreted ; but it was as an
intimate friend he missed her, not as if she were his
affianced bride. There was no yearning after her
smile; no sad recollection of her last words,; no
hungering after her kiss. So that occasionally he was
exercised in mind, and relapsed into his old doubts. The
relapses were not, however, of long duration. ' Absence
lends enchantment to the view,' and, as time went on,
the blank in his life which only Edith could fill up grew
more and more perceptible. When he heard a good

Story, he caught himself saying, 'How this would
amuse Edith !' and when he looked at a fine picture he
regretted that she was not there to admire its beauties,
and enhance his own enjoyment of them. If a dinner-party
was particularly pleasant, he regretted that
Edith was not in town to join it, and to talk the
people over afterwards. At the plays he missed her
appreciative criticism, and wished she had been by his
side. So he thought that perhaps, after all, he was
drifting into the deeper waters of love.

Edith had never cared about anyone before. It
was her first experience of love, and therefore she did
not know what she ought to expect. Her love for
Ronald had grown with her. As a tiny girl, she had
teased the tall strong school-boy, had knocked him
about unmercifully, pulled his hair, and made him do
her bidding ; when she was in her teens, she revered
him from afar, and was overwhelmed with pleasure
when he noticed her ; as she grew into womanhood

the reverence was exchanged for a more ordinary
admiration ; but she could never remember the time
when Ronald had been indifferent to her. Her
affection had not indeed blossomed into a stronger
feeling until recent events had hastened its bloom, but
it had always existed ; and no one of her partners, or
of the men who paid her attention, had ever obtained
the slightest little morsel of her heart. There were
many whom she liked, but she had always liked Ronald
much better, even before she loved him. So, though
his letters did not quite reach the ideal of Avhat she
fancied those of a lover to his betrothed might be, nor
to the warmth of those she had seen in novels, she
never thought of suspecting Ronald's love. She
assumed that he followed the best and most correct
examples, and that this was precisely the style in
which a clever young man of the world ought to
write to the girl of his heart. She soon began to admire
them thoroughly. Occasionally there crept over hera

slight feeling, not of dislike, but of admiration less
warm, when Ronald dropped into the flippant stylo
she knew so well. Never, of course, would she have
been so false to her lover as to call him flippant, even
to herself She termed it ' funny.' But she did
not like him when he was ' funny,' either in conversation
or correspondence, half so well as when he was
serious and loving. His narratives were pleasant and
chatty, but she sometimes sought some loving words
almost unconsciously, and missed them without knowing
that there was anything wanting. These were
after all but crumpled rose-leaves. For she was
thoroughly hajDpy when Ronald's letters told of his
continued advance towards perfect health, and of his
progress in his work, which, indeed, was fully confirmed
by Mr. Edward Woodall's brief notes to her
father. So intelligent a young man he had not, said
the senior partner, seen for many a day, nor one who
worked so hard. Every successive letter confirmed

the success of the experiment. She and M rs. Lascelles
had long talks together, and the principal subject of
their conversation was, of course, Ronald.

Little did Edith think how his mother had worked
to bring about the engagement. Had she suspected
the tenor of those many conversations between
mother and son, she would almost have sacrificed her
love and broken the marriage off at the eleventh hour.
But to her, of course, it appeared that things had
gone on as usual ; that Ronald had somehow — she
could not even now tell why or wherefore — fallen in
love with her, and had proposed at the earliest
opportunity. She was very happy that it was so, and
soon grew to adore Mrs. Lascelles in two characters—
as Ronald's mother, and as replacing her own whom
she had lost.

The wedding Alas at last definitely fixed for
November. Mr. Edward Woodall begged that
Ronald mi^rht be allowed to return to Lombard

Street after his honeymoon, and spend six or eight
months longer in the Bank. Eonald, he said, had
mastered all the petty and tiresome details of the
outside work and of the books, and could now, if
needful, take the place of any one of the clerks or
even of the cashier and accountant. But the very
assiduity With which he had laboured to learn the
mysteries of book-keeping, and checking, and correspondence,
and the ways of dealing with the public
in daily transactions across the counter, Lad prevented
the senior partner doing what he had intended
to do — to introduce him to as many of their
customers and friends as possible, to take him on
"Change to make him attend in his private room when
difficult or ticklish matters had to be discussed and decided;
in short, to educate him in the higher branches.
At present,' wrote Mr. Woodall in October, ' Ronald
is already an excellent bank-clerk, and, notwithstanding
his short experience, would make a capital cashier

or accountant. But he is not a banker at all yet, and
before he takes charge of the Portino house I should
like to make him one. The business there sometimes
requires more than ordinary routine qualities. Difficult
questions may arise, as they have arisen before,
in which consultation with us, who will both be in
England, will be impossible even by telegraph. He
ought to be able to conduct the affairs of the house
without our help, and this is more than we can expect
of anyone, however able and industrious, after six
months' experience only. Give him another year,
and he will bo as smart a business man as anyone in
England.'

In Writing thus Mr. Woodall senior was also expressing
Ronald's own views. He wished to be independent,
but he did not desire to undertake responsibilities
too heavy for his limited experience. He
would at Portino be practically the master of a fine
business which he had done nothing to build up, and

have the supreme control of funds towards which ho
had contributed nothing. He felt that if it had
been his own father's bank, he would have risked
taking charge of matters at once. If he made a
blunder, and lost a few hundreds, it would only be his
father's money, ^^nd his father could scold him for it.
Jut with his father-in-law's money, with his wife's, he
desired to be more careful. If he made a mistake,
he knew that his conscience Avould upbraid him far
more sorely than either of the messrs. Woodall. Ho
wished to show himself worthy of the trust reposed
in him from the very beginning, and to prove to
both the seniors that they could not have done better
for themselves than make him a partner, even if lie
had not married Edith. Not being very conceited »
except, perhaps, about his bowling and his taste in
dress, and judging his own abilities very fairly he
came to the conclusion that he required more insight
into banking', and a more intimate knowledge of the

many friends and connections of the Bank, than he
had yet obtained, or than he could obtain at Portino.
Much as Mr. Charles Woodall desired to return to
England, he, of course, gave his consent ; and it was
arranged that, after spending four weeks in Southern
Italy and Sicily, the happy couple should go to
London for about a year. From the time of his return
to Lombard Street, Ronald was to draw a handsome
salary ; for, said the two brothers, he Avill be worth his
salt. Thus everything was satisfactorily settled, and,
on a foggy evening at the end of October, Ronald left
Lombard Street, which he would not re-enter till he
was a married man. He was laden with gifts for
Edith and himself, for Mr. Edward Woodall had been
lavish to extravagance, while the whole Stent family
contributed largely, so largely that many of their
presents where too bulky to take abroad, and were left
in town till the newly married couple had a home in
which to place them.

THE LAST STRUGGLE.

There was plenty of time to think, on the long journey
to Portino. The best route was then to Marseilles by
train and thence by steamer. The days were short,
hind the books Ronald had brought Avitli him did not
prove sufficiently interesting for him to spoil his eyes
by reading them with the help of a dim railway lamp.
There had been hard work in London for the past few
weeks, and the severe strain of the past six months
had beofun to tell on him. He was tired when he sot
into the train at Charing Cross, and the cold
Channel passage and broken night did not refresh
him. When in the damp dawn of the autumn.

morning he drove from the Northern to the Lyons
Railway Station in Paris he was not in the jubilant
spirits of the traditional bridegroom. Miserably
weary, cold, and depressed, he felt rather as if he were
travelling south to a funeral. He passed many
hours of the journey to the Mediterranean half
waking, half dreaming, but quite wretched. There
was no impatience to see his betrothed and to clasp
her once more in his arms. Doubts and misgivings
again surrounded him, but before they were clem
formulated in his brain he dropped into uneasy
slumber. Visions of beauty would appear dimly
before him — visions of maidens with dark hair and
black eyes, very unlike Edith. Then he would wake
with an effort, and strain his eyes and look out of the
window on the dreary plains shrouded with autumnal
fog. And in a few minutes he would lean back again
and wonder what sort of a life would his be, and
whether Edith would be happy. She was a dear good
VOL. II. 23

creature, and he hoped that he would not make her
miserable. But again visions rose before him ; this
time they took a less ephemeral shape. Lovely Alma
Monsell held out her hand to him, and beckoned him
to her side. She was dressed in black velvet, with
diamonds in her dark hair. He had never seen her
thus dressed before. She stretched out a lovely
rounded arm half covered with priceless bracelets.
Diamonds flashed on her white neck : her bright face
was raised towards him ; he recognised those arch, dark
eyes, the tip-tilted nose, and the tiny mouth which
had fascinated him on Ascot Heath. ' Why marry that
girl ?' she said ; ' she is ugly : you will be tired of her
soon, and then you will be miserable. She knows
nothing of our beautiful large world, and she will tie
you to her apron-strings in her narrow one. You can
do better. Take my hand, Ronald, come with me !'
And she led him away into a region of rosy mists and
silver-lined clouds, where they waltzed to the strains

of Comte and Finney's band. Softly and easily they
floated round, while his eyes looked into hers, no
longer arch, but melting with love. ' A horrid office !'
she whispered. ' A City life for yoii, Konald ? No, you
are a bright butterfly, and must not do the work of
the ugly ant: stay with me. Here is joy and
pleasure ; here are brave men and fair women — not
money-grubbers and quill-drivers.' Then she seemed
to lead him to a o^reat table, all covered with the
choicest fruit and flowers, and she held to his lips a
sparkling goblet. ' Drink this,' she said ; ' it will cure
you : you will be strong again, and merry and happy as
before.' And one soft white arm was thrown round
his neck coaxing, while the other held up the foaming
glass. Then suddenly there was a clap of thunder,
and Alma Monsell and the music and the gorgeousness,
all collapsed, and Konald started up ; the porter was
shouting : ' Monterey ! Quinze minutes arret.'
He shook himself, and stretched his cramped limbs.

*This will not do he thought; 'those silly dreams
worry nie. I must keep awake and read, to change
the current of my ideas.' And after a cup of coffee,
he endeavoured to carry out his resolve. But his eyes
were heavy, and his brain exhausted. He could not
take any interest in the book ; he found himself
reading the same sentence over and over again without
grasping its meaning. On the other hand, his dream
recurred to him again and again, though he was
now fully awake. He could not shake off the
impression it had made. When at last he gave up
trying to keep himself awake, and dropped off into
slumber, he had other and worse visions. Edith weeping
; his mother upbraiding him for some mysterious
\ crime he had committed, he knew not what ; his
father turning away his face in anger, while the head
cashier at the Bank was holding out a number of
cheques for him to sign. Then again the scene on that
cold March evening came before him — the steep

ascent to the glade near San Cristoforo ; the old
chestnut tree, with its wide-spreading branches ; Delia
Rocca's huge collar, and a voice calling out to him,
Do not fight for her ; she is a wretched, spiritless
creature, quite unworthy of you !' But, while he
turned to listen to this strange voice, his adversary
fired, and once more he felt the excruciating agony of
the bullet in his leg. He awoke with a start: his
leg was frightfully painful ; the cramped position he
was in, the fatigue, and the cold damp had brought
back tortures which he supposed were quite at an end.
Before he reached Marseilles he was utterly worn out
both in body and mind. Piling all the coverings he
could find on to his berth, he fell into a sleep as soon
as he got on board the Messageries boat. But his
sleep was not of long duration : the mistral blew hard,
and the steamer pitched violently ; the motion was too
severe for anyone to be comfortable in a berth ; the
voyage of thirty-six hours was as tiring as the land

journey had been. But Ronald had made up his
mind as to the course he would pursue.

The wind had diminished in force before they
reached Portino. The stars were beginning to appear
in the dark sky when the passengers were put ashore.
On the quay stood Mr. Lascelles. Ronald was relieved
not to see his mother ; the Consul was shocked to
find that his son could not get ashore without assistance.
By the flickering and uncertain light of the
gas lamps he could not see Ronald's face distinctly,
but he appeared wan and tired.

Your mother and Edith are at the house, Ronald,'
said the Consul ; ' they are getting tea ready for you,
and dinner as well, so that you may have your choice.
I thought they had much better not come down to
the quay this nasty cold evening. They might have
caught their deaths waiting about for that wretched
steamer ! What a dreadful voyage you must have
had ! She was due at noon, and Edith was looking

out for her through our telescope all day. I have sent
for a carriage, Ronald,' he continued ; ' I am sorry to
see you canst walk yet.'

Only the cold and stiffness of the journey
answered the young man. * I have been quite well
for months. I believe this will go off in a day or
two.'

I hope so, indeed, in time for the wedding. Now
get in and let us be off home. Cataldi will look after
your luggage. Give him the ticket.'

Ronald was silent during the short drive. At the
Consulate, Teresina rushed to the porte-cohere to
meet them, while Mrs. Lascelles and Edith came forward
in the entrance hall. He kissed them all, and
was dragged into the bright warm dining-room, where
his sister began removing his wraps.

How pale you are, dear !' exclaimed Mrs. Lascelles.

Dreadful !' cried Teresina. ' You look like a
corpse, Ronald. What is the matter ?'

'I am very tired,' answered he, sinking into an
armchair ; ' and my leg hurts again.'

You look very worried and worn out, dear Ronald,'
said Edith, bending over him. ' We shall be too
much for you to-night.'

Instinctively she guessed what was passing in his.
tired brain. These greetings and inquiries were overwhelming
him just then. He yearned for rest — entire
rest. Their affection annoyed him; but he kissed
Edith's forehead.

You are all too good,' he said. ' I will have some
tea, if you please, and shall go to bed early.'

There was a hush of disappointment all round.
Teresina had looked forward to this evening as to a
particularly festive occasion. Mr. and Mrs. Lascelles
had expected to see their Son come back in good
health and full of spirits. As to Edith, she had been
picturing the return of her hero lor weeks past. She
had expected him to fly first to hei' and take her in

his arms. Tien he would greet his mother and sister,
and would tell all about his life in London, and her
uncle and his friends, and they would spend a very,
very happy evening. Her father was coming in later,
and Stornello and Donati Avere impatient to see their
old ally. Instead of Ronald flying to embrace her, he
limped slowly forward, leaning on his stick and on
Teresina's arm. Instead of the light of love in his
eyes, she saw them drooping and lifeless. No cheery
smile brightened his face, which was drawn and
anxious. He had not the inclination, or lacked the
power, to ask questions, and his silence prevented
them asking any.

The tea was brought in, and Teresa placed
a little table by his side. He refused to eat,
and bestowed them to have their dinner as usual.
As usual ! How could they sit down to the
festive viands which had been prepared, while he
for whom they had waited so hopefully was lying

silently in an armchair, unable or unwilling to join
them?

You are tired out, my boy said Mr. Lascelles ;
you want a good night's rest

I do, indeed,' said Ronald quietly ; ' forgive me for
not being able to talk.'

They were all very affectionate and good, and he
was at home ; but it appeared to him that the visions
of the past three days were more real than his present
surroundings. He felt cross with them all, somehow,
and had trouble to conceal his irritation.

I will look after the lire in your room,' said Mrs.
Lascelles, rising.

'Thank you, mother. Edith,' he said, 'will you
come near and sit down by me for a moment V

Edith obeyed, while Mr. Lascelles and Teresina
discreetly began talking about the weather, and,
drawing one of the curtains, looked out into the
starlight night.

• Do not be angry with me, dear child,' he said to
his betrothed ; ' forgive me, whatever may happen ; I
am not well.'

'There is nothing to forgive,' answered she; 'you
are completely done up by your journey. You ought
to have stopped a couple of days at Marseilles to rest,
and have come on by the next boat'

I have something for you,' continued Ronald, trying
to get at his pocket, * something from myself, and
no end of things from your uncle and all your folks.'

Oh ! never mind them now, darling,' said Edith
almost with tears in her eyes. ' I am in no hurry : tomorrow
will do. I am only so very sorry that you
have knocked yourself up by hurrying so for my
sake. You are always injuring yourself for me. I
wish I could do something to deserve it.'

Who knows ?' answered Ronald gently ; *■ your
affection may be put to a very severe test. Try to
think well of me, whatever happens.'

Edith was alarmed at the solemnity of his tone ;
but before she could answer Mrs. Lascelles came in.

Your room is warm and comfortable, Ronald said
she ; ' and your bag is upstairs.'

Then, if you will allow me, I will go at once. I am
not fit for anything to-night, and will leave you to
your dinner. Teresina, will you give me your arm ?
Good night, Edith dear. Father, would you mind
coming upstairs to me for a few minutes when you
have done dinner ?'

Will not tomorrow do, if you have anything to-tell
me, Ronald ?'

No ; to-night, please. I shall be better by-and-by,
when I have had a bath ; and send me some more tea
please, mother.'

An hour later Ronald was lying on the couch he
had hoped never to require again. A warm bath had
reduced the pain, and his feeling of impatient irritation
had diminished.

Father,' he said, when Mr. Lascelles entered, ' after
all, I can't marry Edith.'

Good heavens, Ronald !' exclaimed the old gentleman,
' what has happened V

Nothing, father, except that I am sure I do not
love her.'

Nonsense, my boy ; you are tired and out of sorts.
Go to bed, sleep soundly and you will wake up more
in love with her than ever.'

No, father,' replied Ronald ; ' it has taken me a
long time to find out, but I am now quite sure. I
like the girl very much ; she is everything I could
wish for ; but I don't love her.'

You have taken a fancy to some one else while you
were alone in London, Ronald.'

No indeed, I have not fallen in love with any one,
upon my honour. But I have discovered that I shall
never be happy with Edith, and shall never be able
to make her happy.'

Ridiculous !' exclaimed Mr. Lascelles ; ' it is positively
absurd to come at trio eleventh hour with such
a fanciful theory. You should have thought of all
that before. We talked it over six months aofo, and
you made up your mind then that you were very fond
of her ; and so you are now, only something has put
you out.'

It is of no use, father. I was wrong to propose to
her — very wrong. But, fortunately, I have found out
my mistake just in time.'

No, Ronald ; if it is a mistake, it is too late to
remedy it. You must go on now.'

I shall break it off tomorrow morning. That is
why I wanted to see you to-night.'

You cannot break it off,' said Mr. Lascelles.
'Things have gone much too far. Think of the
scandal !'

I cannot help the scandal,' answered Ronald.

But you are surely not so selfish as to make a

number of people who love you miserable for the
sake of an idle fancy,' exclaimed the Consul.
Believe me, my boy, this is a delusion of yours.
You and Edith will be happy as the day is long.'

It is no delusion, father,' repeated Ronald : ' it is
the bare, terrible truth.'

Even if it were,' replied Mr. Lascelles, ' which,
mind, I do not admit for a moment, you have no right
to back out now. You would make the girl wretched ;
you would destroy her life.'

At this moment Mrs. Lascelles entered the room.
What are you talking about ?' she asked. ' Ronald
ought to go to bed. He is quite done up ; and all the
talking can be done tomorrow.'

In a few words Mr. Lascelles told her what the
matter was. Meanwhile Ronald lay quietly on his
couch, and merely nodded when his father concluded.

My dear boy,' exclaimed Mrs. Lascelles, ' your
hard work in London and your journey must have

upset you. Go to bed, and do not let us hear anymore
about it.'

Mother, I cannot drop the matter Hke that ; my
mind is made up. I shall break off the engagement
tomorrow.'

You would break dear Edith's heart,' said Mrs.
Lascelles.

Oh, no ; girls' hearts are not so easily broken. She
will cry a little bit. and be sad for a week or two.
Next year she will marry some one else.'

You do her great injustice,' said his father angrily,
I really begin to believe that you are right, and that
you don't deserve such a thoroughly good, affectionate
girl, who loves you as if you were the only man in the
world, while you shilly-shally like a silly baby.'

Don't get angry with him,' exclaimed Mrs. Lascelles,
his she noticed an ominous flush on Ronald's cheeks.
He is not well, and you must make allowance for him.'

I do not wish any allowance to be made forme

!' cried Ronald. * Is it better to marry her and make
her miserable for ever than to tell her frankly that I
cannot love her, and hope that she will console
herself with some one else by-and-by ?'
You beg the question,' said the Consul.
You would not make her miserable,' said Mrs.
Lascelles. ' If I thought so for a moment, I would
prevent the marriage myself. We know you better
than you know yourself. Think of the grief you
would cause all who love you ; and how about the
arrangements with the Bank and Mr. Woodall ?'

Of course they would be at an end,' answered
Ronald. 'But it is not difficult to find men much
more able than myself, who would willingly join
Woodalls' Bank and bring in money as well.'

Perhaps not,' replied his father. ' But neither
Edward Woodall nor his brother have found one,
though they have been looking for some time. You
seem to suit them thoroughly.'

VOL. II. 24

You would surely not have me marry against my
inclinations to please the brothers Woodall, father ?'

No, my boy ; certainly not. This is only one, and
certainly the weakest, of the many reasons against
your breaking off the match.'

It is madness to think of it,' observed his mother.
What would you propose doing, Ronald ?'

Returning to England at once ; I shall then look
about for an opportunity to emigrate. Australia
would suit me well, I think.'

The notion of going twelve thousand miles away to
avoid an excellent marriage !' exclaimed the Consul.

What should we do V asked Mrs. Lascelles
gravely.

You, mother ? why nothing, of course. You would
go on as usual.'

Do you think your father and I could ever hold up
our heads in Portino again?' asked Mrs. Lascelles
gently. ' Just consider the matter, Ronald. Your

father would be estranged from his oldest and dearest
friend ; I should lose one who has become as dear
to me as a daughter. We are all under obligations to
the Woodalls. We should both be cut off from the
society which makes this place tolerable to us. Even
poor Teresina would be injured ; she would be
deprived of many little pleasures, and surely she has
not too many as it is. The Woodalls would be
plunged in misery and grief, which they would
attribute to us ; and we should practically be shut
out from everything, and be worse than strangers in
the town. And to make up for this great trouble and
hill the small worries which must follow, we should
know nothing of our only son, except that he
was sheep-farming or digging somewhere at the
antipodes.'

This was the first argument which touched Ronald
at all. He was moved, and his face showed it. His
mother continued :

24—2

You would ruin the life of a faithful girl — for
indeed, my boy, I know her character ; you would
destroy the happiness of your parents, who love you
more than anything in the world ; you would deeply
grieve two most worthy men who have trusted you
and heaped favours on you ; you would break your
own sacred word ; and you would destroy your
prospects — all for what ? For an idle, silly fancy, the-result
of your being too much alone, and having overworked
yourself My dear Ronald, you could not da
it ; you would not do it ; you shall not do it !'

A mortal fear seized the poor mother lest her
beloved son should thus wreck all their hopes at th
moment of fulfilment. She burst into tears, and,,
covering her face with her handkerchief, sobbed
piteously.

My boy,' said Mr. Lascelles, rising, and placing a
hand on his son's shoulder, * look at your mother's
grief, and stick to your determination if you dare.

Soli call it conscientiousness ; / should term it
obstinate folly. You place your idle fancies above
the wisdom and experience of your parents ! They
know better what is for your happiness than you do
yourself Heaven knows I have been a lenient father
to you. I have never exerted my paternal authority
before, but I do so now. Break your mother's heartbreak
that poor girl's heart, break your sacred word
of honour, at your peril I If you do, you are no son of
mine !'

The Consul's voice was choked with emotion. He
remained standing, his eyes fixed on Ronald, while a
single tear coursed slowly down his wrinkled face.
Before such an appeal no son could remain unmoved,
even had he possessed a harder heart than Ronald's.
The young man was much exhausted and in pain.
Whatever the result, it could not be right to cause
this grief to his parents, and bring a father's curse on
his head. Himself sobbing, he held out his hand.

Stop, father he cried, in a broken voice ; ' do
not cry, mother dear : I will do as you wish. It is
settled for good or for evil. God grant that you maybe
right !'

THE CHAPEL AT PORTING.

The battle was over, and the defeated one sought his
couch, weary and exhausted. No visions disturbed
him. The deep dreamless sleep of complete prostration
came to soothe his excited brain. When he at
last awoke, it was nearly mid-day. Strict orders had
been given that he should not be disturbed, and they
were rigidly observed. He lay idly for some time
before he rang his bell. At first the events of the
previous night seemed to be only a dream, but
gradually they came back clear and distinct to
his memory. He had done what he thought his
duty. It had been his duty to place the matter

clearly before his parents ; he had thought it his
duty to break the marriage off. They disagreed with
him ; they considered that it would be foolish, wicked,
and dishonourable to do so. He must bow to their
opinion, and there should now be no further doubts,
no more hesitation. He would do his best to make
Edith happy, and would no longer give way to idle
dreams and fancies. Possibly he would soon learn to
love her, since she possessed every lovable quality,
except that unfortunate nose ! Probably he would
soon cease to notice the nose, and would be as
fond of her six months hence as any husband
could be. The prospect was so pleasant, the future
looked so bright, that he felt he would have been
indeed a fool to sacrifice himself and her on account
of exaggerated scruples. They should never trouble
him more. He would make her a good husband, and
his father and mother would be blessed in their
children and grandchildren.

Then he rang the bell, and, when he rose, found
that he could use his limbs again as usual. But his
mother sent for Dr. Salviati, who said that the damp
and cold had brought on a neuralgic attack, and that
Ronald must be careful for a year or two, and keep
the injured leg warm. So the alarm of the family
subsided, and everything went on smoothly henceforward.
There was only a week to the wedding, and
the week passed quickly and pleasantly. The tiny
English church was full of people. Not only Tie
English colony and all Ronald's Italian friends, but
many others — customers of the Bank, merchant
captains, mates of vessels which frequented Portino,
Marietta with her brothers and nephews and nieces,
Gasparoo and all his family, the odd man who helped
occasionally when Mrs. Lascelles gave a party, the
two hvAssiers of the Bank with their belongings,
the messengers and porters with their wives and
children, the clerks and the mothers and aunts of

the clerks, Cataldi— the old factotum of the Consulate
with a whole tribe of Catalans, the pastry cook, the
butcher, and the fruiterer, who supplied the Palazzo
Woodall — in short, nearly all Portino — crowded the
place of worship and overflowed on the Piazzetta in
front. All were eager to see their beloved signorina,
the rich English heiress, who had become quite one of
themselves, married to the gallant youth who had
fought for her, had suffered for her, and had gained
the prize he so richly deserved. In his way he, too,,
was as popular as Edith. No one could handle a boat
as well as the ignoring handled the Santa Lucia,
When he started in a rowing match, none could scull
like him; he wore down his opponents and won
easily whenever he liked. He talked to the fishermen
in their own dialect, and was not a bit proud. He and
his little sister (che telling ! to be sure) used to come
out on the Riva and get them to sing, and he would
lend a hand himself at hauling in the nets. He had

gone round with a collecting-book for poor Giam-
baptista, when the boat capsized, and was lost in that
violent scirocco, and the owner was only saved by the
special intercession of the Virgin. The English
ignoring had collected five hundred francs, and
Giambattista got a beautiful new boat. And the'
remembered the dark days of smoke and tumult,
when innocent citizens and poor peasants were
seized by the soldiers, and Ronald had saved a
lot of them by opening the back door of the
Consulate, and affording them the protection of
the British flag. He had gone out and spoken to
the Royalist colonel, and had refused to give them
up, and had dared the officer to come and seize them.
And in the hospitals, who had brought the wounded
soup, and meat, and fruit, and flowers, but la signorina
Woodall ? So there was an assemblage as numerous
as, and more enthusiastic than, if the wedding had been
that of a Sforza to a Colonia. There were loud shouts

of Evviva ! when Mr. and Mrs. Lascelles and their son
drove up. When the bride entered the doors, on the
arm of her father, they were still louder, and the crowd
pushed up behind her into the church till every inch
•of standing-room was occupied.

Ronald looked pale and preoccupied. He had dismissed
his doubts for ever, but he felt the solemnity
of the occasion. But the bride was radiant. Proud
of her husband, who was to her the ideal of all that
was noble and manly, she looked up at him with eyes
full of sweet love and tenderness. She answered in a
voice far clearer and firmer than his own ; and when
the ceremony was over, and the happy couple were
receiving congratulations in the vestry, many noticed
that while she looked bright and almost exultant,
the bridegroom was silent and distrait. ' White
(certainly does not suit her,' thought he, when Edith
raised her veil. It was a good thing she had not
cried, for otherwise her nose would have been red.

But she must not wear white m future. There was a
want of colour about her altogether ; she required blue
or pink to liven her up. On the whole, however, sho
looked nice — quite as nice as he could expect. What
ought he to say on their way back from church to
her home ? Ought he to talk of their future happiness,
and rave about her beauty ? Or would it suffice if he
alluded to the weather, which was indeed brilliant ?
But he need not have been anxious on the subject
for the enthusiastic crowd prevented his having doivent
conversation. The Evvivas did not cease.
Hats and caps were thrown into the air, handkerchiefs
waved, and people pressed round the brougham to
wish them all happiness. The coachman could not have
forced his way through, if Ronald had not himself put
his head out, and said : ' Grazie tante, amid, mapreghot
fascinate passer la carozza, la moglie la gidfame. Le
nozzle anno appetite ! This joke was quite within
the capacity of the spectators. It tickled the people

vastly to hear Ronald talk glibly of his moglie, and to
suggest that she was hungry. A lane opened for
them through the crowd, and they drove away rapidly,
followed of course by dozens of ragged boys to whom
the bridegroom must give largesse.

The presents were set out in the drawing-room at
the Palazzo Woodall, and people admired and grew
quite enthusiastic over them. Ronald had been
brought up in a simple way, and many of the little
luxuries to which young men are now accustomed
were unknown in the Portino Consulate. He did not
seem to care very much for asparagus tongs and
sugar-sifters and silver-gilt salt-cellars and fish-knives.
The interest they aroused in him was languid. From
an artistic point of view, they were not very beautiful;
and as to their usefulness, he failed to see it.
Asparagus tongs are awkward to handle, and Ronald
generally took them in his left hand while he helped
himself to asparagus with his right. Of course silver

salt-cellars were very nice, but glass ones answered
the purpose as well. As to fish-knives, they were
only just ' coming in,' and the old-fashioned fish-slice
' which figured among the presents, was just
about the clumsiest tool ever invented in an age
desirous of display. Eonald stood in a corner of the
room, listening absently to the friendly talk of
Stornello and Donati, briefly answering Colonel
Martini's hearty speeches, and watching Edith, who
floated about like a sylph from one friend to another,
talked with everyone, smiling and blushing, and
herself appreciating very highly the gifts that had
been lavished on her. No one could look at her and
not see that to her this was indeed the happiest day of
her life. Not the tiniest cloud disturbed the serenity of
her mind ; her fresh young heart, full of love for her
husband and gratitude to Heaven, was brimful of joy
which sparkled on her fair face. Teresina darted hither
and hither, lively, gushing, and in overwhelming spirits.

chattering to one in Italian, to another in English
leaving her sentences half finished and flying from
one friend to greet another. Charley walked about
solemnly in the glories of a new black cloth suit, and
with a bouquet of orange flowers in the button-hole
of his Eton jacket. He deigned to approve of his
sister's choice, and to consider Ronald ' a regular brick,
you know — a sort of Question Durward,* being just
then full of Scott's novels. Mrs. Lascelles was radiant,
and not a shadow crossed her handsome face. No-recollections
of that last battle with her son troubled
her. The two fathers talked with a group of elderly
men, a few of the numerous friends a long and
honourable career had gained for both. A smile of
paternal pride would light up Mr. Woodall's face
when the happy bride passed near him — and she
never did so without a glance of affection for her
father. Mr. Lascelles looked towards his son with a
little anxiety ; but Ronald's appearance did not betray

the acute boredom from which he was suffering
How he wished that all this were over ! How tired he
was of being congratulated and told that he was the
luckiest fellow alive, and having his hand pressed,
and hearing that he was the envy of all Portino ! He
raised his eyes, and looked out of the window. Thereon
the still waters of the harbour, was the Santa Lucia,
her tall taper mast and long hull catching his eye at
once among the clumsy trading-vessels and low
feluccas by which she was surrounded. She was g§.ily
dressed in bunting ; from the top masthead to the
bowsprit and boom-ends stretched halliards carrying
flags of all colours which were flying out in the soft
breeze. How he wished he could throw off that blue
frock-coat, specially ordered for the wedding, and
draw on the snug jersey, and rush off to the Molto,
and feel the sea breeze cooling his face, and sail away
altogether from all these good, kind, but terribly tiresome
people !
VOL. ir. 25

Sail away ? With whom ? Only with Gasparoo.
As he stared vacantly over the bobbing heads of his
friends, and watched the sea-birds skimming over the
sparkling water, no visions rose before him of sailing
across summer seasjvith his fair bride. He had not
yet realised that she was his, and that his life was
henceforth to be spent by her side. That graceful
figure floating about in Brussels lace and tulle was
not yet a part of his existence. He forgot her completely,
as his thoughts flew back to stormy evenings,
when he and Gasparoo had struggled with the huge
mainsail flapping in the wind, and had fought hard to
deprive the storm of its prey; when he peered into .the
darkness, brightened only by the foam of the waves ;
when they had worked the good little ship through the
narrow inner passage, while the wind drove the spray
in blinding sheets over them, and that Gasparoo was
peering out to windward, yearning for a glimpse of
the light on the Molo. There was joy in these fights

with the elements, though there had been discomfort
hind wretchedness at the time : the wet clothes, the
keen wind, the hunger, and the cold were forgotten.
Now he remembered only the triumph of having
brought the Santa Lucia home in the teeth of a wild
tramontana, of having safely weathered all the rocks
and cruel reefs, and sailed into the quiet anchorage
without the loss of a spar or a rope. Then he recollected
their trip to Ischia, when Stornello and he
started for a week's cruise, and how the yacht had* run
for twenty miles heeling over before a quartering
breeze alongside of a passenger steamer. Her captain
had ordered them to fire up, and great clouds of smoke
issued from her funnel and stained the blue sky, but
it was in vain. The Santa Lucia, cleaving the tiny
wavelets and heeling to under a cloud of canvas till
the water washed up her decks to the skylights, had
sailed out of the black cloud of smoke and soon left the
ugly puffing steamboat far astern. How Gaspar had

25—2

laughed and cheered, and chaffed the people on the
steamer ! Then Stornello and he had opened a bottle
of Salerno, and drunk the healths of the passengers
on the packet. And Stornello, raising his glass in one
hand, had dropped it as the Saoita Lucia gave a
lurch, and the sweet Valerian went down into the
salt sea.

Ronald started. A soft hand was laid on his
arm.

They are waiting for us to go down to breakfast,
Eonald dear,' said his wife.

SICILIAN DAYS.

Ronald determined to dismiss for ever his idle
dreams, weak doubts, and morbid self-communing.
His work and his duty in life were clear, nor was his
path a thorny one. Nay, rather was it strewn with
roses. If the roses were not exactly the variety he
would have selected, that was surely a very insufficient
reason for sickly repining. The course before him
was now plain and withal far easier than he had any
right to expect. He would have wished to go to work
again at once and enter seriously on the career of which
he had so far only fringed the border. The honeymoon

in Sicily, that strange southern land full of
fascination and contrasts of wild grandeur and soft
beauty, was not the remedy he required to restore tone
to his mind. He wanted bracing up by manly work,
by contact with hard practical men who had not
Avast hours and days in vain wishes and foolish
introspection.

With Edith only as his companion, travelling for
pleasure through lovely scenes, he felt that he had too
much time on his hands, too little to occupy his
thoughts. In the honeymoon newly married people
are supposed to have enough to do to please each
other: according to tradition, they do not require
any other occupation. Even when they look at waterfalls,
or climb up mountains, or visit churches, they
are understood to be so taken up with each other as
not to care very much whether the waterfall is a
humbug, the view shrouded in mist, or the church a
tawdry bit of restoration. This is an opinion largely

entertained, if not quite universal. But, notwithstanding
his resolute efforts, Ronald found that he could
not conform to tradition. Edith was, indeed, perfectly
contented and happy. To lean gently on his arm, to
look up lovingly into his face, and to find there a
responsive smile, seemed to her all she required. She
enjoyed the beauties of nature and art keenly, and
her joy was intensified by the presence of her hero by
her side. It was a matter of course, an absolute
dogma to her, as true as her own existence] that
Ronald loved her far more than in her own opinion
she deserved, and that dogma alone would have
sufficed to make her happy during these first weeks,
even had they been spent in the Desert of Sahara.
The inconveniences of travelling about in Sicily were
new and amusing to her, and every little discomfort
or delay became to her a source of fresh enjoyment.


Knowing Italian as she did, she very soon learned to

understand the dialect, and what would have ruffled
the feathers of a London beauty, in her only caused a
bright laugh. What did it matter if they found
nothing but sour bread and nasty cheese at an inn
which had been vaunted to them as the best in the
district, as the very place for English people of quality
to stop at ? She would explore the village and talk
to the people, amusing and pleasing them ; and she
would find eggs, and coax an old woman to sell her a
skinny fowl, and make Ronald carry her treasures
back to the inn, and after all they would sit down
to a sufficient meal. Of course the breast of the fowl
the only portion any ordinary jaws could chew —
would be for Ronald. She was not very hungry, oh
no ! a couple of eggs were enough for her ! Again,
when the harness gave way, and their carriage was
stuck on a desolate hill-side, miles away from any
town, with the early twilight of November approaching
rapidly, she was not alarmed at having to trudge for

hours through mud and mire. Ronald was by her
side, and she felt no fatigue.

The wife of the English Consul at Palermo had
suggested that they ought to ask for an escort
of carabines, as brigands were about. Edith only
looked at Ronald and smiled. He had a revolver
which he wore round his waist, and with him
she was not afraid of a dozen brigands. Perhaps her
bright face, her good humour, and her friendly ways
really protected them from attack. At any rate, they
were never molested, though they heard of other
travellers in the neighbourhood being plundered of
all their belongings.

The handsome couple soon became popular all
round Palermo. In the eyes of the swarthy Sicilians,
Edith was the ideal of beauty. They cared not
for her mouth being too large, nor did they measure
the length of her nose by the standard of the Medical
Venus. She had fair hair, blue eyes, and a white

and pink complexion, and that was enough to mako
her an angel to them. Every little incident of
the trip was a new cause of pleasure to Edith,
because every incident, in her opinion, brought,
out the great and good qualities of Konald, Iter
husband. Edith was not spoiled, nor was she
exacting. Ronald resolutely determined to be in
love with his wife, and he acted up to his resolution.
He paid her much deferential attention, and very
small attentions from him went a long way. Gentle,
thoughtful, and kind he had always been with lier, as.
with all women; for there was in him an inborn
gallantry which prevented his behaving otherwise
to the ugliest and oldest of her sex. But he now
made strenuous efforts to be more than merely
attentive to all her wants; he endeavoured to da
better even than to anticipate her slightest wishes.
He became loving and devoted. He taught himself
to carry out, in all its details, the unwritten rules

which guide a passionate lover. If he helped her
into the carriage, he gave her hand a slight but
significant pressure. When she was getting out, he
lifted her down in his arms, instead of merely assisting
her in the ordinary manner. If she handed him
anything, he stooped and kissed her hand before
taking it. When she joined him, ready for a walk,
and placed her arm in his, he never forgot to kiss
her on both eyes. When she sat by him, he would
gently stroke her fair hair. At every caress, Edith
would blush and look at him lovingly in return.
When, after dinner, they could manage to make
themselves comfortable (which was not always the
case), he would make her take the nicest armchair
he could find, and lie down on a rug at her
feet, looking up into her eyes.

Soon all these attentions grew easy and natural
enough. Gazing into those soft blue orbs, whose
glance was always gentle and loving, Ronald's resolve

to cherish and guard the sweet girl who trusted him
so implicitly was daily strengthened. Her heart, her
thoughts, hei whole life, were so entirely his, she
leant on him with such confidence, turned to him
with such thorough trust, looked up to him with
such devotion, that no man, not in love with another
woman, could have done otherwise than return something
at least of her affection. Aye, but how much ?
Eonald strove gallantly to give her back all she gave ;
to abandon his heart to her keeping, as she had abandoned
hers, to see in her his own true helpmate
and companion, to weave her image into all his future
hopes and aspirations. He would at once begin to
tell her of his work and of his past difficulties, so
that he might get used to confiding in her and consulting
her. And when he carried out this resolve, he
found in Edith an intelligent and sympathising
listener. She had not been at the head of her
father's household for seven years without profiting

by her position. She was no silly boarding-school
miss, ignorant of everything, polished with a superficial
veneer, gathered from lesson-books. Of the
world, the fashionable world, she certainly knew
nothing. The gossip of society papers, the slang
of what are known as the upper circles, were unintelligible
to her. But she knew something of
politics, and she had strong sympathies with Italy
and Italian aspirations. Of the complicated machinery
by which the business of the world is carried on; of
trade, shipping, banking, and finance, she understood
more than many men. Such terms as discount,
bills, policies of insurance, freights and shipping
charges had been household words to her since
her childhood. She had often helped Mr. Woodali
with his correspondence during his brief annual
holiday at Bagnuoli. The more important letters
were sent up to him by a mounted messenger, and
Edith often wrote the replies to his dictation. She

knew every one of the staff at Portino, and also some
of the clerks who were now in London, for they had
spent a year or two in Italy first. Nearly all the
Italian agents had come down to Portino, and had
been invited to the Palazzo Woodall at one time or
another.

So Ronald discovered, to his surprise, that he had
very little to teach his wife. She knew nearly as
much as he did himself about the routine of banking,
hind much more than he did about the Italian affairs
of the firm. The discovery came on him as a surprise,
for Edith was above all womanly, and had never
brought out her knowledge of business, nor exhibited
her acquaintance with matters which are generally supposed
to be understand of men only. Her father
and the chief cashier were probably the only male
persons who were aware that she knew more than most
people of either sex. Her gentle ways and unassuming
modesty were quite incompatible with the accepted

type of the superior woman. Even her affianced lover
had not guessed that she was, in this respect, so
different from other girls. He had, therefore, never
alluded to business matters except casually and in a
general way, and she had abstained from introducing
a subject which Ronald had not thought proper to
discuss with her.

Now she was pleased to be told of the London
office, of the business carried on there, of the
rush and hurry of the great city. She loved
to hear Ronald tell of the doors swinging incessantly
on their hinges, the tellers and cashiers in their glass
cases, the ways of their great customers, so different
from the Italian indolence, the rapidity with which
huge transactions were proposed, accepted or declined,
and carried out, of the people who came to see her
uncle, of the merchants, noble lords, country squires,
und money-lenders who elbowed each other in the
front of the lonjr counter. And her heart swelled with

joy at the thought that she was the humble instrument
by which her own Konald should be rewarded
for his devotion and heroism — should occupy a place
worthy of him, as the chief to direct and control this
great house — the man who would receive merchant
princes and Peers of the Realm as their equal if not
their superior.

If she had been filled with sweet thoughts of
happiness and love when he lay at her feet and
kissed her hands, or when he lifted her tenderly and
clasped her in his strong arms, her heart overflowed
with pride now that he trusted her with his plans, and
with those details of his work which would have been
dry and repellant to an ordinary woman. What, she
often thought, had she done to deserve such ineffable
bliss ?

Ronald was so handsome and so manly that
his very appearance made all look at him ; so brave
that he had thought nothing of risking his life for

her, so good and loving that her every wish was
anticipated before she could express it, so thoughtful
that every crumpled rose-leaf was removed from the
path she had to tread, so clever that her father and
uncle considered themselves fortunate to have secured
him as a partner — and this man, this admirable compound
of all manly virtues and all perfections, was her
husband, her own for ever.

Providence had indeed been good to her, for her
cup of happiness was full to overflowing. Her soft
eyes would fill with tears as she looked at the stalwart
form lying at her feet, and she would wonder how he
could love such an insignificant little creature as
herself, and what he could find in her to attract him ;
for he was worthy of a Princess, and his sphere was a
nobler and loftier one than she could ever reach.
She wrote from Palermo to her father and to Mrs.
Lascelles. Her letters were short, and those to Mr.
Woodall only told that she was happy, and that

VOL. II. 26

Ronald was very very good to her. To Mrs. Lascelles
she was more effusive ; some of the affection she bore
to her husband found a vent in loving letters to his
mother. She could not love him so deeply and so
truly without also loving those who were dearest to him,
and she had always been very fond of Mrs. Lascelles,
whom she had learnt to look upon almost as a second
mother even before she was eno^aoced.

Now Mrs. Lascelles had really taken the place of a
parent in Edith's heart, and as the image of her own
dead mother grew fainter by the lapse of years, her
mother-in-law took its place not unworthily. When
the Consul's wife received the second letter from Sicily
she wept, strong-minded woman as she was, and she
thanked God for having given her wisdom and
strength to guide her son aright. She had not dared
to hope that the experiment would be so soon and so
brilliantly successful. She had expected a few little
difficulties, and thought that possibly it might take a

year or two before Ronald, with his eccentric ideas
and fantastic notions, would find out what a perfect
woman he had won and how singularly fortunate he
was. But from Edith's letters, and also from Ronald's
own, she concluded that no passionate lovers could be
more devoted, no romantic couple happier. They
were wrapped up in each other, and in three short
weeks her son adored his wife more absolutely than
she could ever have hoped. She and Mr. Lascelles
read the letters over and over again together, and
rejoiced over the happiness of their children.

You were right, dear,' said the Consul. ' You are
always right. How glad I am that we were firm with
Ronald.'

'You would have given way to the boy, if it had
not been for me,' said Mrs. Lascelles.

'lam afraid I should,' he replied. 'Thank God
that you came in on that evening.'

Yes, indeed ; you see I knew him better than he

2G—2

knew himself. He positively worships Edith now.
Did you ever read such an enthusiastic letter as
hers ?'

No answered the Consul ; ' but his is not quite
so warm.'

You could not expect it,' said Mrs. Lascelles ;
men are always more reticent in writing. And
besides, I think he is a little ashamed of his past
folly.'

Very likely.'

And just see what he says,' continued she :
" Every day I discover some new virtue in my dear
wife." '

I hope he will go on discovering new perfections
to the end of his days,' said Mr. Lascelles.

No doubt he will. It was a difficult task to? get
over his exaggerated scruples ; but now he is married
and head over ears in love with her, there will not bea
more devoted husband in all Europe.'

He is the soul of honour, and such a good
fellow !' exclaimed Mr. Lascelles. ' A son to be proud
of, and he owes his happiness to his mother.'

Not to me alone, dear,' answered Mrs. Lascelles,
kissing her husband affectionately ; ' to his father as
well, and, above all, to Providence. Let us be thankful,
and hope that we shall find as good a husband as
Ronald for dear little Teresina.'

We do not want a better one,' said Mr. Lascelles.

You could not find a better, if you looked all over
the world,' replied his mother proudly. ^

THE STENTS SHOW THEIR CONFIDENCE.

Not many weeks later they settled in London, ina
pretty little furnished house near Park Lane.
Christmas was approaching. They were very busy at
Woodalls' Bank, and the partners' private room was
scarcely ever free from visitors for five minutes
together. Although the deeds had not yet been
signed, Ronald was already installed in this sanctum,
to which he would have a legal right ' on and after '
the first day of the new year.

The Tents had received Ronald and Edith very
warmly, more warmly indeed than the former at all
liked. For the number of dull dinners to which both

were invited was enormous, and before he had gone
through the clan he was wearied out, and declared
that he would not accept any more invitations from
any Stent whatever. It was sufficiently unfortunate
that Clara had married one of the family and appeared
by this act to have married the whole, family. He
had not done so, and he was not going to do so.
They dined of course at his sister's ; they went to Mr.
Stent senior, to Mr. John and Mr. William. But
when not only his brother-in-law's brothers, but also
his brother-in-law's cousins, began to leave cards,
he lost his temper. It was, perhaps, the first time
that Edith had seen him really cross, except with
stupid waiters, slow contrivers, or dilatory landlords.


You are not to return these visits, Edith,' he said.

Why not, dear V she inquired. ' They are, I believe,
very respectable people.'

Undoubtedly ; but they are bores, and we know

bores enough already. We have not more than a
hundred evenings a year, at most, on which we can
dine out, and, if we do not take care, the Tents will
monopolize ninety-nine of them.'

But we can always refuse the invitations. And it
is so rude not even to return a visit,' urged Edith,
always unwilling to hurt anyone's feelings.

You are too good for these folk,' exclaimed Ronald;
you don't understand them. They presume on their
connection having married my sister. They are notour
style ; they do not belong to the same world in
any way. You will find it out by-and-by, when you
come to know miy friends.'

They are certainly not so amusing as the people we
met at Uncle Edward's,' admitted Edith.

Of course not ! they are pragmatical, narrow-minded,
and out of society altogether. Now please
do not think of being civil to them.'

Very well, Ronald,' said Edith.

Do not pay any visits except to the three houses
where we have dined.'

I am afraid Clara will be vexed,' observed Edith
again.

I do not care in the least. Now remember, I won't
have it.'

And for the first time since their marriage, Ronald
spoke imperiously to his wife, and left the room without
a kind glance or a kiss. The fact was that
Ronald was gradually forgetting the pretty loving
ways he had acquired during the honeymoon. He
was in a hurry to get away in the morning, and
read the Times with his mouth full of toast and
eggs, scarcely looking at Edith. He always kissed
her before he started for the City, but the kiss was a
very perfunctory one. He still returned by half-past
five or six, and often took a cup of tea in the drawing
room. This was the pleasantness part of the day to
Edith. He would tell her anything new that had

happened in the City, would ask her what she had
been doing, would suggest the play or some other
amusement for the evening, and would be thoroughly
sociable for an hour. But even in this hour he
was not loving. He never lay down at her feet
now, nor looked into her eyes. He did not kiss her
hand when she passed him cups of tea, as he used todo.
He did not stroke her hair gently, nor admire
her dress. He did not interrupt her when she told
him little bits of feminine gossip, or of the shops where
she had been, or the visits she had paid, but the old
deference to every word of hers was gone. He did
not seem to listen — certainly not to care. Sometimes
he would take up the evening paper, or go down to
his study to write letters. At dinner, in the presence
of the servants, he was of course most kind and attend -
time — indeed he was always attentive— but she missed
the frequent glances across to her, the smiles full of
deep meaning (or none at all), the opportunities of

rising: and coming round to her chair, which he used
formerly never to miss. The dinners were far better
than those they had eaten in Sicily, but Edith
preferred the Sicilian meals. Ronald evidently did
not.

Very grievous to Edith was Ronald's omission of all
the tender trifles which had made her honeymoon so
happy. She argued indeed with herself that of course
now he was busy, and had other and far weightier
matters to attend to than saying pretty things to* her,
and petting her, and squeezing her hand, and kissing
her on every occasion. She knew that he was keenly
anxious to make himself indispensable at the Bank ;
that he devoted all the day to it, and often, when they
were at home, spent hours in his study at work. But
still she could not conquer a certain depression which
crept over her when Ronald went off after a hurried
kiss on her forehead, or when, on his arrival home,
his first thought was to tell her that he had taken

stalls for the St. James's, or that they would go to a
concert at Willis's Rooms. He did not seem to care to
spend an evening quietly at home with her.

They had now been six weeks in London, and had
been alone together after dinner about six times.
Her company, she feared, was no longer amusing
enough for him. Surely on the rare occasions when
they neither went out nor had anybody with them,
he need not have rushed off to read ' Lubbock on
Banking,' or to study abstruse books on account-keeping,
directly after dinner! Her father was a
successful banker, but had never had occasion to
work like this. She was inclined to regret their
rough life in Sicily, and would willingly have exchanged
all the theatres, concerts, and dinner-parties
for a few evenings such as she had spent at Palermo
and Messina.

The simple explanation was, of course, that a man can
play a part fairly successfully for a week or two, if he

has nothing else to think about, and no other object
at the time except that part. When he returns to
work and general society he falls back into his natural
self. Ronald had never intended to act a part at all.
He had honestly hoped that by studiously doing what
other lovers did, by carefully and perseveringly pretending
to be in love with his wife, by concentrating
his thoughts on her virtues and beauties, he would
succeed at last in being thoroughly and entirely in
love with her. Perhaps the trial was too short.
Possibly if the honeymoon had been extended to six
months he might have succeeded. As it was, he
certainly failed.

As soon as he reached London and returned to the
Bank, the Bank absorbed his thoughts. He began to
neglect the stage business which he had so carefully
coached up. When he had done his work, when he
returned home exhausted in mind and body, he
required something more lively than merely his wife's

conversation. That was pleasant enough in its way
but was insufficient to divert him and to prevent his
dwelling on the business of the past day. He wanted
bright scenes, exhilarating talk, nice people. The
play served his turn ; and as he was enthusiastically
fond of music, concerts were a delightful relaxation to
him. It was not that he did not care for his wife.
He loved her perhaps far better than in the first few
days of their wedding-trip, when he studied every
word before he spoke, every gesture, almost every kiss.
He earnestly wished to please her and to make her
happy, and he never gave way to regrets which would
have been useless because too late, nor to dreams which
would have been mischievous because impossible.

But just because he was active and busy, because
his mind was full of other matters, and because he
had no leisure for introspection, he soon not only
neglected, but almost entirely forgot, the part he had
determined to play. It happened sometimes that

when he had finished his newspaper on the top of the
omnibus which he generally took to the City, or when
it rained and he had to hold up an umbrella, he would
suddenly remember that he had only kissed his wife
on the forehead before leaving, and had not said a
single loving word to her on that morning. Then he
would hope that she had not noticed it, and trust it
would not grieve her, and before the omnibus reached
St. Martin's-le-Grand he had forgotten all about it.
Once, indeed, he returned from the corner of 'the
street, and astonished Edith by coming into the
dining-room and saying, 'I never kissed you this
morning.' But he did not generally remember his
omission till it was too late to repair it."

One dull afternoon, when the gas burnt dimly and
seemed to make the gloom of the City darker than
ever, two cards were brought into Mr. Woodall's
private room at the Bank.

He passed them over to Ronald. ' They are for

you, I think. See them in the waiting-room while I
shorthand this letter to the Banbury Cake Company.
I do not like their way of doing business, and I shall
tell them so.'

The cards bore the names ' Mr. Stent ' and ' Mr.
George Stent.' Ronald went out into the waitinsf-
room to them.

How do you do ?' said George Stent, holding out
his hand and smiling.

'Good afternoon, Mr. Lascelles,' said Mr. Stent,
senior.

What can I do for you ?' asked Ronald, after having
shaken hands with his friends. He was quaking
inwardly, though he did not show his nervousness.
Courage is by some authors defined to be the art of
concealing fear. If the definition is correct, Ronald
was very brave indeed. It was an unheard-of circumstance
for the chief of the Stent clan to leave his
offices during business hours, except on business connected

with Stent and Cowcroft. He had never come
to the Bank before. Now he came with his eldest
son, obviously there was something in the wind, and
Ronald connected that something with the directions
he had recently given Edith. Probably the two had
come to expostulate with him. He must be firm. He
would be courteous if he could, but he would not give
way. He would absolutely and finally decline to be
swallowed up by the Stent maelstrom. If the nephews
and cousins thought that the imposing nature of the
deputation could make him give way, they should
find out their mistake. All this passed through his
mind in a few seconds, while he waited for his brother-in-law
to speak.

We should like to see Mr. Woodall,' said
George.

Oh ! I beg your pardon,' exclaimed Ronald, quite
relieved ' On business V

Yes, on business,' answered Mr. Stent senior.

VOL. 11. 27

On important and not unpleasing business,' added
George sententiously.

Kindly wait half a minute,' said Ronald. * My
uncle is just short-handing an important letter ;
but I will tell him you are here, and I am sure he
will not keep you an instant longer than he can
help.'

They will be surprised,' said Mr. Stent, when
Ronald had closed the door.

'But it is undoubtedly the proper thing to do,*
remarked George.

I think so. It will be taken as a distinct sign
that we all approve of the connection, and wish to
support it and strengthen it.'

We do not owe anything to the Arbuthnot,' said
George.

'On the contrary. They have been shabby more
than once, and they too frequently make mistakes.
Young Arbuthnot is very careless.'

Quite so. But they will regret the step we are
taking.'

It is only right that when an old-established Bank
deserts its wholesome traditions, and the junior
partner leads a fast and disreputable life, City firms of
standing should show their disapproval by withdrawing
their accounts.'

It is quite right, as we all decided last night,' said
George.

I understand that Ronald will be a partner as from
the first of January,' remarked Mr. Stent.

Tuesday week,' observed George. ' A very good
thing indeed. He is very steady, I hear from all sides,
and works like a Trojan.'

A most estimable young man,' said Mr. Stent.
Quite so,' remarked George. ' An ornament to the
family.'

I suppose it will last ?' hinted his father.
Undoubtedly. Ronald is no fool. He has gained

27—2

a position very quickly and very cleverly, and I have
no doubt he will keep it'

He has good friends, too,' said Mr. Stent. * Mr.
Woodall will appreciate him all the more in consequence
of our coming. I should think they would
give you their Stock Exchange business now.'

I hope so. In any case Ronald is likely to do
them a lot of good, partly through us and partly
through his West End acquaintances. I saw him
yesterday afternoon with Lord Carlton.'

Did you really, George ?' asked Mr. Stent almost
incredulously. ' Where ?'

On the steps of the Palmflower Club. They were
talking quite intimately.'

Lord Carlton is very rich, but extravagant and
fond of racing,' observed Mr. Stent.

The aristocracy,' said George, ' is entitled to do
many things which we, as business men, have no
right to meddle with, It would be suicide if you or

I were to own a race horse, or be seen in the betting-ring.
But Lord Carlton is in a very different
position. You know, father he added, lowering his
voice, ' we must move a Kttle with the times. We
cannot quite afford to condemn all amusements,
and we rather like a little fun ourselves now and
then,'

If it is thoroughly moral and Christian,' observed
Mr. Stent.

Of course. But we must not condemn too harshly
those who do not see the sin of certain pursuits we
object to. Great noblemen and financiers have always
been allowed a certain latitude. But what a time
old Woodall is keeping us !'

At that moment they were summoned.

You are no doubt surprised to see us, Mr. Woodall,'
said George, after they had all sat down.

Well, I did not expect the pleasure. In what way
can I serve you ?' asked the banker.

Mr. Woodall/ began Mr Stent, senior, ' you are no
doubt very busy, and I won't waste your time by
beating about the bush.'

Thank you. I am rather busy just now. It is the

close of the year, and this nephew of mine is going to

strengthen the Bank by becoming a partner on the

first of January, which makes a good many changes
necessary.'

Precisely. That is what brings us here. Mr.
Ronald Lascelles is, I am proud to say, a connection
of ours. My son has married his sister.'

Mr. Woodall bowed. Ronald almost wished she had
not.

Now, sir continued the old man pompously, ' you
are aware that the members of my family are all in
business !'

Mr. Woodall bowed again.

'They are all, I may say, in a good steady way
of business. No wild speculations for me, sir, nor for

them. They will never make a million, but
they keep on scraping it up, sir, scraping it up bit
by bit.*

'No doubt, no doubt,' assented the banker, wondering
what he was driving at.

You may be aware, sir, that there are three firms
in which the family are represented. There is my own,
Stent and Cowcroft, of which I need say nothing, as it
is so well known.'

Quite right,' said Mr. Woodall, ' we all know Stent
and Cowcroft's.'

Precisely. Then there is Stent Brothers, the stockbrokers,
the partners in which are my son George here
and his youngest brother William.'

Stent Brothers,' began George, ' are doing a fair
steady business. We don't compete with the brokers
who encourage gambling, so we do not turn over anything
like what we might.'

Mr. Woodall bowed aefain ; but being: anxious to hear

what the Tents wanted, he said nothing. Did they
wish to negotiate a loan ?

'Lastly resumed Mr. Stent, 'there is Stent and
Son in Leadenhall Avenue, in which my brother and
his son, Mr. William A. Stent, are the only partners.
Their business, sir, is principally tea, and they own a
few trading vessels.'

Indeed !' observed Mr. Woodall, as Mr. Stent was
evidently waiting for him to speak.

Now, sir, all these firms wish to open an account
with you.'

With us V asked Mr. Woodall, surprised. ' Why
leave your present bankers ?'

That, sir,' replied Mr. Stent, ' is a question I would
prefer not to answer. I do not wish to injure Arbuthnot's
in any way. But we decline to bank with them
any longer, and we desire to show our confidence in
yourself, and in Mr. Ronald Lascelles, by transferring
our credits to your Bank.'

I feel very much honoured,' said Mr. Woodall, ' and
I am very glad that Ronald has been the means of
securing to us such excellent customers.'

'We were sure you would be pleased said Mr.
Stent, ' and we were anxious to do Mr. Lascelles a good
turn. I wish to add that the three firms I have
mentioned all keep an account at the Bank of
England : this they propose to continue.'

Of course,' said Mr. Woodall.

The money they have at the Bank of England is a
sort of nest-egg,' observed Mr. Stent. ' The balances do
not move much. It is not often operated on. \\q
should bring you all our bills without exception.'

We shall be happy to discount good paper,' said
Mr. Woodall, cautiously.

'Sir,' replied Mr. Stent, 'Stent and Cowcroft and
Stent and Son take nothing but first-class names.
Stent Brothers require no accommodation of this sort,
do you, George ?'

No answered he ; ' we only want moderate advances
on stocks and shares.'

The details of the arrangement were then discussed.
Ronald was genuinely surprised. The accounts offered
to his Bank were by no means unimportant, and he
felt that to have obtained the voluntary support of the
Tents was a feather in his cap. He thought of the
proverb that nothing succeeds like success. Would
any member of the Stent family have lent him ten
pounds if he had not married Edith ? Probably
not.

It was arranged that the partners in the various
firms should call on the following day to sign their
names and complete the necessary formalities. Mr.
Stent senior and George then bowed themselves outwith
many civil protestations. When they had gone
Mr. Woodall looked sharply at Ronald.

Did you ask them to bring their accounts here ?'
he asked.

Certainly not, sir. I never even hinted it. I do
not allude to the Banks business to anyone, let alone
the Tents.'

You are not very fond of them ?' asked Mr.
Woodall again.

Not very, sir. They are very respectable, and all
that, but very dull, you know.'

Mr. Woodall smiled. ' You are quite sure that you
have dropped no suggestion to any one that we should
like them as customers ? — some one who may have
gone and told them, you know ?'

Quite sure, sir. The only person outside to whom
I have ever spoken about our affairs at all, is my
wife.'

Quite right, Ronald. Never open your mouth to
any one else about what goes on here. Edith is a
clever woman, and may be trusted. But take my
advice, and do not say anything to her if by chance
there should be a hitch some day— awkward times

to get over, or a panic in the City. Such things may
happen, you know.'

Yes, sir,' answered Ronald.

Well, at such times don't tell your wife. Women
are too nervous and too excitable to be trusted. They
may have hysterics, or be frightened out of their wits,
or something of the sort, and then the doctor is sent
for, and some fellow hears about it and says the Bank
is going. Whatever happens, keep your own counsel.'

I will, sir.'

That is all right, and I trust, indeed, that no such
crisis will occur. When it does, and if it does, keep cool
and think things over carefully. Don't get flustered.
Now about these Tents. Of course Stent and
Cowcrofts are solid — very solid V

No doubt.'

But,' continued Mr. Woodall, ' my experience tells
me never to believe in the strength of firms in which
partners are fools. Old Stent is a pompous fellow,

but he is not stupid. But I believe that most of his
sons are mere pedantic asses.'

So do I,' assented Ronald, very warmly.

That being the case, I don't trust their judgment.
Just keep your weather eye open, Ronald. If I am out
of the way, be very careful about giving Stent Brothers
and Stent and Son accommodation. Don't breathe
a word, and, whatever happens, don't offend them if
you can help it. But just be careful.'

RICHMOND.

When the winter drew towards its end, and Eonald had
for some time been a full-blown partner in Woodall's,
the pressure of his work diminished. He had
mastered the routine of the business, and made the
acquaintance of the majority of the Bank's customers
and agents, had taken a run to Lancashire to visit
some of the mills with whom his uncle had frequent
transactions, and was now thoroughly initiated in the
mysteries of book-keeping. So he found himself
comparatively at leisure, and was often able to
leave the City soon after four o'clock, without
neglecting his duties in the least. But he no

longer went straight home. In the early days of
their stay in London, he made the best of his way
to Park Lane as soon as he could lock up his safe.
Lately, however, he had begun to look in occasionally
at the Palmflower Club in St. James's Street, just to
hear what they said in the West End. Soon the lookin
extended to an hour or so, and after a time he
stopped there daily before going home. He met many
of his old friends at the Palmflower. St. Glair was a
member ; St. Clair had married his old love, and
the two enjoyed themselves immensely. Ronald
went home with his friend one afternoon, and the next
day Mrs. St. Clair called on Edith. Insignificant little
woman as she was, she possessed all the liveliness and
knowledge of the world which Edith lacked altogether.
They dined at the St. Clair's in their tiny house in
Crompton, and Ronald was delighted with the dinner,
with the way everything was done, and with the people
they met. The talk was lively and continuous. The

last play, the last fashionable scandal, and the
prospects for the season were all discussed in turn
in a tone which Edith failed to understand. She
did not take to Mrs. St. Clair at all. On their way
home she confided to Eonald in a horror-stricken
voice that his friend's wife painted her face. She was
appalled when Ronald merely said :

Very likely. Lots of women do. She has not got
such a good complexion as you, dear.'

I don't trust any woman that paints !' exclaimed
Edith.

You need not. You are not called upon to trust
everybody you meet, though, by-the-bye, Mrs. St. Clair's
crime is a very venial one.'

But surely I cannot be friends with people I am
unable to trust ?' asked Edith.

'Why not? If they give nice dinners, ani make
themselves agreeable, and talk well, what more do
you want V

I should feel such a hypocrite, being civil to a
person I disliked said Edith.

Nonsense, dear. You are too enthusiastic. There
is surely a medium course. There is no occasion
to tell Mrs. St. Clair, or people like her, all your
secrets, nor to make a bosom-friend of her. But
you can be friendly all the same, and find her very-good
company.'

I do not think she is good company,' said Edith.
She is dreadfully frivolous.'

My dear child,' replied Ronald, ' you must really
get rid of some of your provincial notions. Who
makes your dresses, by-the-bye ?'

Now up to this period Ronald had always thought
that Edith dressed to perfection, and no doubt her
travelling dresses and morning gowns were fairly well
made, and admirably set off by her graceful figure.
But at the St. Clairs' she had somehow looked dowdy.
The material of her dress was very good, but the

VOL. II. 28

colour did not suit her ; and as to the cut, it was
entirely wanting in style. Ugly and small as was
Mrs. St. Clair, she positively looked better than Edith.
This must be attended to at once. Edith scarcely
knew whether to be pleased or sorry at the interest
Ronald now took in her toilette. It was a form of
interest she scarcely understood. He came back early
from the City next days, and spent an hour with her at
Madame Christine's, the most fashionable dressmaker
in London ; and then he went the round of sundry
milliners with her, and made her try on a dozen bonnets.
But when a few days later she consulted him about
altering a certain morning dress, and asked his
opinion about a bonnet she was making at home, to
save the absurd prices charged at the shop, she was
astonished to hear him say :

Oh, don't ask me, and do not go patching up old
things. Let Madame Christine make you a new dress
when you want one.'

But, Ronald, I do not want a new dress for every
dinner-party.'

I do not care. You are to look nice, and I wish
my wife to be one of the best dressed women in
London. No home-made rubbish, please.'

But think of the expense, Ronald dear,' she ventured
to expostulate. ' That dress you ordered the other
day Avill cost over twenty pounds.'

You have lots of money,' was his reply. ' What is
your four hundred a year for ? and if it is not enough,
come to me for more.'

And, as a matter of fact, they had plenty of money ;
quite as much as they wanted. At Christmas, Ronald
had received from the bank what the two Woodalls
considered a fair remuneration for his eight months'
incessant work : twelve hundred pounds. The articles
of partnership provided that he should draw quarterly
at the same rate, in anticipation of profits. And
Ronald knew perfectly well that these sums were far

28—2

within the boundary of prudence. The profits made
were very large — far larger than Mr. Stent senior had
estimated when he had discussed the matter with his
sons. So he was determined that his wife should
not have the excuse of economy to dress badly. The
money would never have been his if it had not been
for Edith, and as much of it as she could possibly
require should be spent on her. She should have a
phaeton and a pair of ponies when the fine weather
began, even though they might have to dispose of it
for nothing when they went to Portino next year

May brought an increase of work to Ronald, and an
increased number of invitations to him and his wife.
Mr. Edward Woodall had several threatening of gout,
and was more than once prevented from appearing in
the City. Increased responsibility was thrown on the
junior partner at a particularly trying time. For it
was a period of speculative enterprise, of high prices,
and immense activity. Small people were making

thousands in a few days. New companies were
brought out daily, and their shares made large
premiums. Old-fashioned men who stuck to their old
ways were laughed at and left behind. Some of the
best and most respectable firms supported new undertakings
which their fathers and grandfathers would
have called swindles. It was difficult for a young
man not to be carried away by the general enthusiasm
and belief in a golden future, but Ronald mistrusted
his own judgment, and would do nothing important
without consulting Mr. Woodall. When the latter was
kept at Wimbledon by the gout, the junior Y/ould often
run down to Heath Lodge by an afternoon train, and
spend the evening with the invalid to ascertain his
views on the new schemes proposed to the Bank, the
new customers introduced, and the position of old ones
who had embarked in new ventures. For Ronald
had from the beginning made up his mind that he
was only a trustee for his wife. It was her money

with which he had to deal, and it was only in his
capacity as her husband that he was a partner in the
bank. If he had bought a share in it with his own
funds he would probably have been bolder. But, ashe
had decided on that remarkable evening at Portino,
the Woodalls should never repent having taken him
as a partner. It should never be said that they had
made a bad bargain, and that the bank had lost
money by their confidence in him. He was therefore
so cautious that even Mr. Woodall occasionally chaffed
him about it, and said that he had never seen so old
a head on such young shoulders.

Ronald was unceasing in his efforts to find out all
the ins and outs of the various matters proposed to
him, and even with the best names as a guarantee he
took very little on trust. The information he thus
collected and was able to lay before Mr. Woodall was
invaluable. Eonald spent several nights travelling to
investigate, as well as he could by a flying visit,

manufactories, shipbuilding yards and engineering
establishments on which money was required, or
which had been turned into limited companies.
Often he was unable to go himself Then he sent
persons whom he could trust, with a list of questions
to which they had to ascertain the answers. But if
their report was encouraging, and the business
appeared promising, he seldom undertook it without a
personal investigation, and it was strange how often
such an investigation showed that his agents hadlteen
deceived. Many people in the City began to smile
when Woodalls' bank was mentioned, and said that
such old-fashioned over-cautious folks would never
get on. But Ronald was not to be diverted from his
path, and was at work morning, noon, and night.

Edith was, of course, very much alone during this
period. She knew enough of Ronald's absorbing
occupations to forgive his absence from home, but she
thought he worked far too hard and was unnecessarily

anxious. She ventured to argue with him once or
twice, but he replied that he had been entrusted with
her money and her father's, and that he must look
after it. Over and over again was Ronald obliged to
send a message at the eleventh hour to decline a
dinner-party, or to tell her to go to the play with
Clara, as he could not escort her. Clara was fortunately
well, and able to go about, so she helped her
sister-in-law over her loneliness. At the beginning of
June the pressure diminished a little in intensity as
Mr. Woodall was able to attend regularly. One day,
George Stent, who, being now a regular customer, was
frequently at the bank, sent in for Ronald. He came
out of his room looking very tired and fagged.

'Ronald,' said he good - naturedly, 'you look
thoroughly done up. You have really been working
too hard.'

'We have been very busy,' said Ronald, smiling
faintly.

'' Yes ; these are busy times, and you have had all
the work on your own shoulders. Edith and Clara are
both getting quite anxious about you.'

There is no occasion for any anxiety.'

At any rate, you may as well come out of the Cit'
when you have a chance, and take a little relaxation.
Cassoni and his wife are coming down to Richmond
with us by-and-by, and we are going to dine at the
Star and Garter. Go and fetch Edith and come too.
It will do you much good, and revive your spirits'*

Cassoni was a young Italian artist who had settled
in London, and whom Mr. Stent senior had taken up.
It has already been mentioned that Mr. Stent bought
pictures, and Cassoni had been pointed out to
him as a rising young man whose works were
sure to increase in value. So Mr. Stent purchased
the best of those he had shown in the winter at the
Belgian Gallery, and had given him an order for
another. He was a pleasant, attractive young fellow,

and had married a charming, simple English girl,
whom he had fallen in with at a country house where
he was painting the owner's portrait. Mr. Stent senior
having patronized him, he had been adopted by the
clan, and Ronald was delighted that a little variety
was thus introduced into their dinner-parties. George's'
offer was tempting. The City was insufferably stuffy.
The sky looked yellow, but Ronald knew that a few
miles further west it was blue and bright. Next to
the sparkling waters of the sea, and the white sails of
the Santa Lucia, he yearned for the silvery reaches of
the Thames, and for a breath of healthy fresh air.

When do you start ?' he asked doubtfully.

At half-past two— directly after lunch. We want
to have a couple of hours on the river before dinner.
Come, send Edith a telegraph message, and then go
home and fetch her.'

I should like to come, very much,' said Ronald, still
hesitatingly.

Well, why not, then ? Have you anything very
particular to do to-day ?'

No ; nothing beyond the ordinary business. But
one never knows what may turn up.'

'You need not stop for what may or may not happen
said George. ' You know I am a thorough man of
business myself I never take a whole day. But in
the summer, if I can get through my work in the
morning, I do not see why I should not occasionally
have a run into the country for a change.'

I Avill see if Mr. Woodall can spare me,' said Ronald.

Queer chap !' thought George. ' A year ago that
fellow was never to be found at his office except when
he could not help it. He was always about somewhere,
playing croquet, or flirting, or dancing, or something
worse. And now he's as steady as an old Bank of
England clerk, and never thinks of anything but
business.'

Mr. Woodall at once told Ronald to go.

You have been too hard at it,' he said, ' and an
afternoon will do you good. You want a longer holiday
than that, and I hope you will soon get it. Now make
yourself scarce ; I know what there is to attend to, so
don't worry. ■'

Ronald promised to meet his brother-in-law at the
Star and Garter. He would drive down with Edith
in their victoria, as George's carriage could not
possibly hold more than four. Then they would
order dinner, and all spend the afternoon on the river.
Edith was delighted, and soon they were rolHng
smoothly along the Knightsbridge Road. With no
thought of impending evil, they both chatted more
gaily than they had done for some time. Ronald
strove to get rid of the City cobwebs and succeeded.
He had taken flannels with him, and when they met
their friends, proposed to dispense with a waterman,
and paddle them about in a tub. It was a stiff task
he set himself, for six people make a heavy cargo for

one man, particularly when lie is out of training.
However, they were in no hurry. He sculled up gently
with the tide towards Twickenham, and by-and-by
Cassoni threw off his coat, and said he must help.
Clara was in good spirits. George Stent had got rid
of much of his stiffness, but did not talk, which was a
relief, while Mrs. Cassoni and Edith enjoyed themselves
thoroughly. It was nearly seven o'clock when
they returned to the hotel. At once Ronald retired
to change his dress, promising to join the others on the
lawn, where they would walk till the dinner was
ready. When he descended the steps to look for them,
he heard a voice which sent the blood rushing to his
face. It was long since he had heard it, but yet it
seemed but yesterday. It proceeded from a group
standing on the gravel walk jiist under the coffee-room.
There were two handsomely dressed ladies
surrounded by several men. One of the ladies, she
whose voice he had recognised, was tail,, and had a

beautiful figure, which was shown off to perfection by
a close-fitting forward dress. She wore a Gainsborough
hat, which shaded a dark but fascinating face.
Dark black eyes, a short nose, rather inclined to be
retroussS, and a small mouth with full red lips, made
up a very attractive total, which seemed to demand
admiration, and to challenge a comparison with more
classical beauties. The black eyes were looking
mischievously at one of the men, whose back was
turned to Ronald. Suddenly they glanced over the
man's shoulder and met Ronald's gaze. He raised
his hat, while she stepped forward with outstretched
hands.

Mr. Lascelles !' she exclaimed.

Miss Monsell !' said he.

No,' she answered ; ' I am Lady Redbourne now.
Did you not know that I was married ?'

Yes, I heard,' he answered ; ' but I forgot at the
moment. Allow me to congratulate you.'

She shrugged her shoulders.

I don't know that there is anything to be congratulated
about.'

Is his lordship here ?' asked Ronald. ' You must
honour me by introducing me to him.'

Here ?' she said. ' Certainly not. I don't suppose
he is up yet. He does not generally get up till dark.
He is a dreadful invalid, you know.'

And you are his nurse ?' asked Ronald, suddenly
remembering that the American heiress had married
a noble lord old enough to be her grandfather.

Is it likely? No, I enjoy myself, as I have a right
to do. Now let me introduce you. Captain Varney,
Mr. Lascelles, an old friend of mine. Lord Castleton,
Mrs. Hardy, Mr. Lascelles. Mr. Munden — oh ! I see
you know each other,' said Lady Redbourne, as Ronald
shook hands with the last mentioned.

Yes,' said Mr. Munden. ' Mr. Lascelles and I
have often met at the club. But I have not

seen you much lately,' he added, turning politely to
Ronald.

No, I have been too busy. I am in the City now
replied Ronald.

In the City ? Indeed ! I was not aware that you
had left Somerset House. I ought to have heard, as
I'm in the City myself,' said Mr. Munden, who was a
perfect man about town, faultless in his get-up, calm
in his manner, ready with the usual smart talk and
full of the latest gossip.

I have been in the City nearly six months said
Ronald.

Indeed ! May I ask where ?' inquired Mr. Munden.

Woodalls' bank.'

Oh ! of course. I ought to have known. But I
had no idea yoih were the new partner. Allow me to
congratulate you.'

Come, Mr. Lascelles, let us take a turn,' said her
ladyship, placing her hand on Ronald's arm and interrupting

the conversation. ' We have a lot to talk
about.'

Ronald complied. He had seen that face not so
very long ago — much more recently than Lady
Redbourne thought. It was on the way from Paris to
Marseilles.

Now tell me all about yourself,' said she, when
they had moved out of ear-shot. ' What have you
been doing since I behaved so shamefully to you at
Ascot, two years ago ? Oh, what a long time !'

She looked into his face as she spoke, her dark eyes
softening. They were velvety and gentle now, and
the mischief had died away out of them.

'You use harsh words about yourself. Lady
Redbourne.'

No harsher than I deserve,' she replied, quickly.
But it was mamma who did it, you know. It was not
really my fault. I cried my eyes out because she
would not let me speak to you.'
VOL. II. 29

They have entirely recovered, then said Ronald
flippantly ; ' for they are brighter than ever.'

You talk nonsense, as you always did, Ronald,'
said she calmly, addressing him by his christian name.
But you talk very pleasant nonsense sometimes.
Do you recollect that afternoon at Lord's, at the Oxford
and Cambridge match ?'

She pressed his arm gently.

As if I could ever forget !' said Ronald. ' It was
one of the happiest days of my life. I trusted
you then, and believed iu you. I thought you the
most lovely woman I had ever seen, and the most
attractive.'

And now V asked Lady Redbourne. ' Have I turned
Ugly already?' She stopped, and looked at him
inquiringly.

No. You know very well that you are more
beautiful than ever,' said Ronald.

At that moment they met a party walking along the

lawn in the opposite direction. Konald nodded to
them.

Who are those people ?' asked Lady Melbourne.
Badly dressed women, anyhow.'

Konald flushed scarlet, and dropped his companion's
arm.

One of the badly dressed women is my wife, Lady
Melbourne. I ought to have told you that I also am
married.'

Oh ! I'm so sorry. I really did not mean it,
Ronald,' exclaimed she, impetuously. 'Do forgive
me ! It was just like my stupid bluntness. Which
was your wife ?'

It is of no consequence. Lady Redbourne. There
is nothing to forgive. I must join them, as they are
expecting me to dinner. Good-bye.'

'Stay, Ronald! I cannot let you go like this.
Remember, I have not soon you for two years.
You would surely not leave me in anger ?' She

29—2

leant on his arm, and looked beseechingly into his
face.

They again passed, George Stent, with Mrs. Cassoni
on one side and Edith on the other. George stared,
while Edith looked uncomfortable.

That is my wife,' said Ronald ; ' the fair one.'

She would be charming,' observed Lady Redbourne,
turning to watch the retreating group, ' if she were
better dressed. Now, Ronald, you must not be angry
with me,' she went on, volubly. ' I consider myself
entitled to speak with authority. Do I dress well ?
Just look at me.'

Of course you do !' answered Ronald, as he looked
at that exquisitely fitting, light-maize forward, the
coquettish hat, and admirable gloves, which were a
poem in themselves. And he was not able to confine
his attention entirely to the elegant costume ; the
wearer obtained the larger share of his undisguised
admiration.

I am glad you acknowledge it,' said she, with a
toss of her pretty head. ' They call me the best-dressed
woman about ; so I think I have a right to talk.'

Certainly,' said Ronald ; ' no one has a better
right. You preach by example, which is more than
most people do. But not everyone can dress like you
do, Lady Redbourne. It is an ideal very few can
attain.'

I am quite sure that your wife could do far better
than she does. I shall be very glad to help. I will
give you the address of the people she must go to.'

'I have sent her to Madame Christine's,' Ronald
ventured to observe.

Madame Christine ? She is no good at all. Christine
does well enough for very many people, who can tell
her exactly what to do ; but she has no style of her
own — no cliic at all. Worth is the only man. He
comes to town several times in the season, and, besides,
it is so easy to go to Paris. I will give you a letter to

Worth. He will take care of any of m^/ friends,
and you will hardly know your wife when he
has dressed her. She is not at all an ugly little
woman.'

Ronald could not be angry. If a man had spoken
in this manner, he would have knocked him down ;
Lady Redbourne was a woman, and was too deliciously
pretty. She said the rudest things in a simple, impulsive
way, which seemed to take all the sting out
of them. And she, undoubtedly, dressed very well —
so well, that he could not but confess that the ladies
of his party looked frumps in comparison. He would
certainly go and see this great Mr. Worth. But now
he must return to his people.

I really must be off now, Lady Redbourne. I see
my folks have already gone in ; we are dining in
number seven.'

Don't go, Ronald,' said she. * We are in number
six. Come and dine with us.' She looked into his

eyes imploringly. They were again soft, velvety, and
beseeching. They were the eyes of the dreams and
visions he had tried so hard to forget ; yet he strove
to resist them, and refused. Again she coaxed and
caressed him, and at last summoned the rest of her
party to her aid.

Captain Verney,' she cried, ' and Mrs. Hardy, help
me to persuade Mr. Lascelles to dine with us. He
insists on going back to his wife.'

Is Mrs. Lascelles alone here ?' asked Mrs. Hardy.

Oh no,' exclaimed Lady Redbourne ; ' there is a
whole party with her.'

Then surely,' said Mrs. Hardy, raising another fine
pair of eyes, grey this time, on poor Ronald, 'you
could not refuse Lady Redbourne's request.'

Really . . . ' stammered Ronald.

And I have not seen him for two years,' exclaimed
the impulsive woman. ' We have not had a chance of
saying a word yet.'

You could send a note to your friends suggested
Captain Verney.

Of course he can cried Lady Redbourne. ' No, I
shan't let you run away and tell them, or you will not
come back. Now do not go on like a girl who is asked
to sing. Write a line on a card. Here is my pocketbook.'


She produced a tiny thing of morocco leather and
gold, and pulled a little pencil out of it. After
another struggle, Ronald yielded. He wrote on the
back of a card :

Have met Munden and Lady Redbourne, who insist
on my dining with them. Please excuse me.' He
placed the name of the insignificant Munden first.
But probably that gentleman's invitation would not
have tempted him away. The card was dispatched by
a waiter, and they adjourned to dinner. Lady
Redbourne made Ronald sit by her, and devoted herself
very specially to him. The party was a merry

one. Captain Verney told of some funny adventures
in India. Mrs. Hardy was full of fun and repartee.
Lord Castleton, whose dinner it turned out to be, was
a charming host, and very good naturedly allowed
Ronald to monopolise Lady Redbourne. But the conversation
was too general to give his lordship any
cause for jealousy. Somehow, Ronald felt at home
with these people, far more so than he did with the
Tents, or at Portino, or even at his own house. The
dinner was excellent and well served, and, though he
was occasionally troubled with pangs of remorse, they
were stifled by Lady Redbourne's soft glances and
softer words. When the dessert was on the table
Lady Redbourne rose.

Will you get me my cloak, Captain Verney V
she said. ' I should like to take a turn in the
garden. The evening is so exquisite. Ronald, will
you give me your arm ? You may smoke, if you
like.'

Ronald was obliged to comply. Perhaps lie did so
not unwillingly. Silently they walked across the now-deserted
lawn. Lady Redbourne was carrying her hat,
which she swung abstractedly by its ribbon. They
reached the terrace and looked out on the Thames.
The moon had risen, and cast a silver band across the
the smooth water. The dark trees were whispering
very softly in the gentle summer wind.

'Do you remember such another night, Ronald,
when we sat on the balcony at Lady Golderby's V

Aye, indeed,' he answered, ' you danced with me
many times on that evening, and you gave me a
flower which I kept for ever so long.'

I was happy then,' she said, raising her arm to her
brow, ' because I thought you loved me, Ronald. But
I am wretched now, though I have all I can wish for !
Are you happy V She gazed into his eyes inquiringly.
The moon cast a pale light over his face as he shook
his head doubtfully.

I do not know he answered. * Certainly I ought
to be very happy.'

*I made a great mistake,' she went on in a low
voice, her face close to Ronald's. ' My poor mother
thought she was acting for the best, but she was
wrong. After all, being " her ladyship " does not amount
to much. I wish I were plain Alma Monsell again !
No !' she added after a pause, ' I forgot : I do
not wish it. But I am glad to have seen you
again, Ronald. We were very fond of each other,
dear.'

With a sad bewitching smile, she made him answer,
almost against his will,

'And you are sweeter and more fascinating than
ever,' he whispered. ' Oh ! Alma, how could you be
so cruel ? Too late ! too late !'

Perhaps we should not have got on together,'
said Lady Redbourne, placing her hand gently on
Ronald's shoulder. ' Perhaps it is better as it is.

But my heart is very sore, Ronald, very sore indeed.
Can you ever forgive me for having jilted you ? Look
into my face, and say you forgive me from your
heart'

Now the moon shone with its wan light on her
upturned face. Her black eyes were darker and
deeper than ever, while her thin nostrils quivered asher
breath came more quickly, and her lovely full lips
were parted as she looked anxiously for her answer.
It came. An arm stole round her waist and two
warm lips were pressed against hers.

They will be looking for us,' she whispered after a
few minutes. ' There is a man in the corner watching
us now. We must move away, for everybody can see
us by this moonlight. I will take you home in my
brougham. I cannot let you go — I can't indeed. You
must not refuse me, darling. Perhaps it is the last
time we shall ever meet.'

Ronald scarcely knew what he was doing. Lady

Melbourne put on her hat and swept through the hall.
The brougham was at the door.

Tell Lord Castleton that I have gone home,' she
said to the porter.

And they drove off.

SUSPENSE.

In No. 7, at the Star and Garter, the dinner was very
quiet. A great depression had fallen on the party.
Even merry Signer Cassoni could not be jovial when
he looked at Edith's sad face, for she had not yet
learnt to conceal her feelings. She felt utterly
wretched, and she showed it. Probably if she had not
seen Ronald walk up and down with that pretty
person she might have been less unhappy. But she
had seen too much to be able to enjoy the dinner.

The sky was still blue ; the trees were clad in fresh
young leaves. The Thames shone in gold and purple
under the setting sun, and the green lawn was still

dotted with smartly dressed people. But for Edith
the heavens were overcast and she saw not the fresh
green, nor heeded the smart people. Ronald had left
her unkindly, rudely, to go off with some old flame of
his. It might be nothing serious — it was probably mere
thoughtlessness — but it was dreadful all the same.
She tried to laugh, but her laugh sounded hollow ;
she endeavoured to talk, but her voice stuck in her
throat. Oh ! if she could only have been alone, and
have allowed her tears full vent. With Cas^oni
looking at her, his large eyes full of pity, with Clara
squeezing her hand and whispering, ' Never mind, dear,
keep up your spirits,' and George Stent pursing up
his mouth and putting on his sternest expression, she
felt as if the dinner would never end. Ronald would
surely come in as soon as it was over, and then all
would be right again. Worse almost than his defection
was the construction that George would put on it.
She could read his face, and, knowing that there was

no love lost between him and her husband, she
dreaded the result of Ronald's indiscretion. She did
not know what would happen, and therefore trembled
all the more. She shivered when she thought of the
mysterious mischief George Stent might do him. She
had long ago guessed that the Tents were not really
well-disposed, though outwardly so friendly, and she
had no means of gauging their power for evil ; therefore,
she thought that it was immense. The tact of the
little Italian and the quiet good sense of his wife
helped her through the endless repast. When it was
over George Stent asked her whether she would like
to take a turn on the terrace. She looked appealingly
at Clara, but when her husband suggested anything
Clara always approved. ' I would rather rest a little
she summoned courage to falter.

Let us go out,' suggested Cassoni, ' and let Mrs.
Lascelles have a little quiet.'

George rang for the bill, and made a resolute

attempt to remain behind the others, wishing to have
what he called a little quiet talk with his sister-in-law.
But in this endeavour he was defeated by Cassoni,
who would not go till he could take George with him.
Edith was at last left alone, and she listened impatiently
for Ronald's step. If she could only see him
before he met the others, she might conjure the
danger. For she knew well that her husband would
not brook the slightest remark from any of the Tents,
however much his conduct might justify it. But no
Ronald came. Tears slowly forced their way to her
eyes. She wept bitterly but silently, for as time went
on she felt that there might be worse things than the
vengeance of an outraged Stent. Nine o'clock had
long struck, and the guests were gradually departing.
At last some one entered the room. She raised her
head, hoping against hope for Ronald* It was George
Stent.

'It is of no use waiting he said; 'your precious
VOL. II. 80

husband has driven off alone with that person, Lady
Redbourne, it seems.'

It is not true,' she cried indignantly. * How can
you say such things V

'I am not in the habit of making statements I
cannot substantiate,' answered he, in his usual
sententious style. ' I saw him kissing her on the
terrace, and have since ascertained that they went off
together in her ladyship's brougham.'

Of course, George Stent was very angry, but there
mingled with his anger a little satisfaction at his forecast
of Ronald's future having come true after all.
Any man of ordinary feeling would have been silent
about what he had seen on the terrace — would, at any
rate, not have told the wrong-doer's wife. But George
was not a man of ordinary feeling. His motives of
propriety were very rigid, while he did not even know
of the existence of such a quality as tact. The former
had been grossly outraged ; the latter being unknown

to him, lie could not observe. He thrust the dagger
into Edith's heart without any special malice, merely
because he disliked Ronald, and this was a chance of
giving his feelings vent. If he had been asked why
he told Edith what he knew must hurt her deeply, he
would have replied calmly that it was his duty to put
the poor wife on her guard against such a man. Nobody
could have persuaded him that he was committing
a mean, ungentlemanly act. He would not have
resented such an accusation. He would simply-have
stared at his accuser, and thought he was off his head.
There are certain people whose hide is like that of a
rhinoceros.

We will go home, then,' said Edith coldly, after a
pause. ' Where are the others ? Please fetch them.'

They soon came,. George having been careful to tell
them what he had seen and heard. Cassoni wis
quite disgusted at being made the recipient of what
ought to have remained a dead secret, and exclaimed,

30—2

You surely did not tell her?' while Clara only

Will you come with us, Edith ?' asked George,
vvhen the carriage was ready. ' Mr. and Mrs. Cassoni
can drive home in your victoria.'

No, thank you,' answered she, shrinking back.

But you cannot drive home alone 1' exclaimed he.
All that way at this time of night.'

'Why not ?' asked Edith coldly; ' it is my own
carriage. I prefer being alone thank you.' Then
she added, with a gallant effort at appearing unconcerned,
* I shall pick Konald up at the Palmflower
Club. He is sure to wait for me there.'

This was to the ladies. She did not even look at
George. But that gentleman was still pressing in his
attentions.

At least let Clara go with you,' he said. ' You
can send her on to Porchester Terrace afterwards.'

Edith simply took no notice, but walked off to the

victoria, which was drawn up behind the Stent equipage.
Before he could argue with her, the carriage
had driven off.

Silly girl !' exclaimed George, when they had
started. ' As if he would be at the Club. He is
gone off with that woman, and I dare say he won't
come back at all'

The Cassocks did not answer, and Clara said, ' Hush,
George !' It was a dreary drive home for all except
George. He possessed mentes consciam recti, ana
hugged himself in the conviction that he had always
thought Ronald a thorough bad lot. There must be a
row after this. Edith would go to her uncle, and
write to her father, and they would turn him out of
the Bank. Poor thing ! he felt a little sorry for her, for
she had been gentle and polite ; but he thought it just
as well that her eyes should have been opened to her
husband's true character.

Edith drove home in a sort of stupefied state. She

could not realize that her Ronald, her very own, had
left her among these people, and coolly gone off with
Lady Redbourne. It was too horrible. She still held
in her hand the card he had sent her, and read it
over and over again by the passing gleams of the
street-lamps. There was just one glimmer of consolation
in it. They ' insisted ' on his dining with them,
he said. No doubt they would not let him go. They
were so pleased to have found him, found one so
delightful to all, that they kept him for the evening.
Perhaps, after all, the explanation was simple enough,
and Ronald was not to blame. He had only thought
that he would please his old friends by spending a
few hours with them. There was no harm in it. But
then that woman, that well-dressed coquette, who
leant so confidingly on his arm when she saw them
on the lawn before dinner ! Eyes ! She had wonderful
eyes indeed, and she knew how to use them. So
much even the unsophisticated innocent Edith had

seen. And the kiss ! surely it was a wicked story of
George's ! How she hated George Stent ! with a hate
far passing the hate of man.

At last the carriage drew up at her own door. She
could scarcely wait till it was opened. Surely Ronald
had returned ! It was past eleven, and he had left
Richmond long before they started. She remembered
herself just in time, and did not ask the servant. A
glance told her that he had not come back The
evening letters and the evening paper were still on
the slab in the hall ; his light overcoat was not hanging
on its usual peg. She said as calmly as she
could : ' Your master is at the Club. Do not wait up
for him ; he has the latch-key,' and went upstairs to
her room.

She dismissed her maid, and undressed slowly, very
slowly, pausing and sitting down for a while, listening
intently for the front-door to open. The church-clock
struck twelve when she laid her aching head on her

pillow. Her tears had now dried up. Her pride
began to assert itself. It was of no use to weep over a
faithless husband. She must not show him how
much she cared. She must put a good face on it, and
dry her eyes, and be able to snap her fingers at him
tomorrow, and upbraid him with a few scorching
words. Scold ? Of course she would not scold. Just a
sharp biting sentence, which should bring him to his
knees, and make him beg her pardon. She tried to
make up such a sentence, but before she could arrive
at a satisfactory one, her short period of pride came to
an end, and she was once more the tearful despairing
wife, impatiently listening for her husband's return,
starting up at the slightest sound, and laying her
head down again on the wet pillow in bitter disappointment


One o'clock ! Still no Ronald. A horrible thought
struck her. Perhaps he would never return ; perhaps
he had left her for ever, because he could not love

her. No, surely, that was impossible. She remembered
their happy weeks in Sicily. Surely Eonald,
who had lain at her feet, and lovingly kissed her
hand, and made much of her, and petted her, and had
talked of his love in many soft southern twilights,
could not thus have forsaken the woman for whom he
had not scrupled to shed his blood. It was a wild
fancy, an impossible dream. Yet she could not
shake it off. As the minutes went slowly by it took a
firmer hold of her, till in her agony she shrieked" out :
Oh, Ronald, come back to me, come back '

And there came an answer — as if her voice had penetrated
through the walls — for she heard something,
surely. It was the key turning in the lock. She was
too impatient, too anxious to rest in bed, waiting.
She rose and gently opened her door. This time there
could be no mistake. She heard the chain put up
and then Ronald's step sounded on the marble floor
of the hall. There was a pause. He was removing

his boots for fear of making a noise. Poor Edith !
All her pride was gone ; all she felt was relief and joy
at his return. Dear Ronald ! he was afraid of disturbing
her. It never struck her that he was sneaking
into his own house like a thief in the night. She
listened intently, with beating heart, as she heard him
slowly ascend the stairs, which creaked as they always
do creak when people want to be particularly quiet.
She could not wait any longer when she heard him
opening the door of his dressing-room. She forgot
her dignity, her outraged pride, and her satirical sentence
— even Lady Redbourne. She rushed out and fell
into his arms, crying :

Oh, Ronald dear ! I am so glad you have come
back ! Kiss me, Ronald ; I thought you would never
return to your poor Edith.'

FORGIVENESS

Had Edith been the most experienced and astute
reader of men's hearts, she could not have humiliated
Ronald more thoroughly than she did by following
her simple loving impulse. She did not ask for a
word of excuse from him. She kept his head pressed
to her bosom, and kissed his short curls, and wept
over him as if he were a prodigal son.

Her anticipations of the possible future had been so
dark, her terror so dreadful, that she rejoiced to have
him back on any terms. The tears of joy wiped out
the record of his offence.

Hush, hush !' she cried, when the wretched man

endeavoured to stammer some words of regret, and
she put her Kttle hand on his mouth ; ' don't speak,
daring ! You are with me again, and that is enough.
Kiss me, Ronald!'

Between laughter and tears, between joy and grief,
she sobbed herself to sleep in the small hours, still
clutching tightly hold of Ronald's hand, as if fearful
that he might fly from her again.

He did not close his eyes all the night. Only that
afternoon, on his way down to Richmond, Edith had
shyly whispered something which ought to have made
him ten times more loving, more careful of her than
before. And within a few short hours of this announcement
he had behaved in a manner certain not
only to hurt her feelings, but to injure her health.
Brutally, in short. If now his wife had spoken bitterly,
nay, even if she had only been proud and
silent, he would have been far less repentant. Even
mute reproaches would have roused some sort of

spirit of opposition — feeble and unfounded perhaps,
but yet some resistance. As it was, he could do nothing
but think over the wrong he had committed
with bitterness in his heart.

He did not attempt to palliate his act by saying to
himself that love is the master, and that he was in
love With Lady Redbourne. He knew very well that
if, even while with her, he had been suddenly told
that they were both free, and that he could marry her
next day, he would have hesitated. She was infinitely
lovely, but she was morally far inferior to Edith. Now
his brutal act stood out in its real character, by the
lurid light of his conscience. He had been weakly
carried away by a pair of black eyes, stylish dress, and
the sentimental remembrance of his old love. Such
seductions had sufficed to make him forget his sacred
duty, and not only his duty, but even the laws of
ordinary courtesy. He had been worse than fickle
and weak • he had been brutally rude to the woman

whom, above all others, he was bound to respect, and,
under the special circumstances, to cherish with
especial care. He could not find the slightest excuse
for his conduct, and was ashamed with a deeper shame
than he had ever felt. He could scarcely control himself
to lie quiet, for his anger impelled him to walk
about and talk loudly, and call himself a contemptible
wretch.

But though his shame and repentance were deep,
though he made resolves which, he believed, would
never be broken again, though he felt the burning
coals which his wife had heaped on his head enter
this brain, though his heart was full of remorse for his
own wickedness, and full of tenderness for her, yet
there was one feeling which never came over him,
even once in those weary hours. Not once did he
yearn to take Edith into his arms, and kiss her lips —
not once did the love for her which he had acted so
well for four weeks assume a real mastery over his

heart. He turned towards her full of repentance, of
sorrow for his own sin, and of tender, unspoken gratitude
for the loving oblivion in which she wished to
shroud it — but even though his whole soul was thus
moved, there was no response to her warm love. His
mind was full of affection for her ; in his heart there
was tenderness and kindness — no more. And even
now, when he recognised himself abased, and knew
how infinitely noble was Edith's character in comparison
to his own, he could understand, he could be
grateful, he could admire, but, alas ! he felt that he
could not love.

Ronald was in the dining-room that morning before
Edith. When she came down she kissed both his
eyes, and said simply :

Never speak of it again, dear ! It was a bad dream
only a dream.'

She was pale, and looked tired ; but her smile was
bright, and there was no suggestion in her face, nor in

her ways, that she wanted to pose as an ill-used wife.
She had a loftier idea of forgiveness than most women.
She not only forgave his offence, but wiped it out so
entirely that things should be as if it had never
been committed. It should not even shake her confidence
in her husband.

Whilst she was dressing that morning she had had
time to think, and had found a hundred excuses for
Ronald — excuses which far surpassed in ingenuity any
he could have invented for himself. First, of course,
came the conduct of the lady. Nothing could be more
abominable. She was an abandoned woman, who all
but threw herself at his head. On Lady Redbourne
Edith vented all the indignation of which she was
capable ; for Ronald she had nothing but sorrowful
pity. Any man might have been carried away for a
few moments by so clever, handsome, and unscrupulous
a coquette. He was scarcely to blame, poor
fellow ! No doubt she, and the fast people with her,

teased him about being tied to his dowdy wife, and
would not let him go. She had married a handsome
and attractive man, and how could she expect that he
should appear handsome and attractive to her only ?
Other women liked him, and this was a very wicked
woman, who evidently liked him very much, and
respected neither her own marriage vows nor his.
She knew that he was bitterly sorry now, poor fellow,
and she thought he would love her more than ever.
She would not risk the loss of his love hy worrying
him. Besides, why should she ? It was not his fault.
Probably if they had been with anyone else than the
Tents, he would have come back to dinner. But she
knew that George Stent always bored him, and drove
him into ill-temper. She shuddered as she thought
of George. So she went down to kiss her husband,
and she gave her heart with her kiss.

While they were still at breakfast there was a ring
at the front-door, and when the servant answered

VOL. II. 31

the bell, they heard a well-known voice in the
passage.

Ronald changed colour, and put down the Times,
Edith quickly jumped up from behind the urn, and
came round the table.

Ronald,' she whispered hurriedly, while deep
blushes mantled her face and neck, ' that man is a
wretch. He told me he had seen that woman kiss
you last night. I know it wasn't true. But anyhow
he was very wicked to tell me.'

Before Ronald could recover from his astonishment,
the door opened, and George walked in. Edith had
resumed her place. The visitor looked rather surprised
to see the two seated comfortably at breakfast,
as if nothing had occurred. He just nodded to
Ronald, but said affectionately to Edith :

How are you this morning, dear Edith ?' and held
out his hand. She pretended not to see it.

Quite well thank you she answered coldly.

I thought I would come round and inquire at
once, on my way to the City,' proceeded George.

Edith did not answer. He thought he must go on.

It was very trying for you he said, with a severe
look at Ronald ; ' and we all felt so sorry.'

Edith's eyes flashed angrily, and the colour rose to
her face. But she only said, ' There was no occasion
to trouble. Ronald was waiting for me.' She felt
very wicked as she uttered this terrible untruth. But
what true woman will hesitate to tell a lie to shield the
man she loves ?

Oh !' said Mr. Stent rather incredulously, and
glanced at Ronald, who looked annoyed.

The visitor had been standing all this time, and began
to wonder that he was not asked to sit down. So he took
a chair himself. Ronald resumed his Times, and Edith
did not offer him a cup of tea. Still he would not
take the hint.

Ronald dear,' said his wife, after a short silence,

31—2

shall you have time for the Academy this afternoon
?'

This was said more sweetly and affectionately than
usual. There was a loving inflection in her voice
Which, under ordinary circumstances, would have
been reserved for a tete-astute. And in order that
there might be no mistake, she came round to Ronald,
and drew up a chair close to him on the side away
from George, who was sitting near the door. Ronald
understood at once. He laid down the paper and
answered, looking at her, and therefore almost turning
his back to George.

I think I can manage it, darling. I might get
away by four o'clock.'

With an audacity for which he would not have
given her credit, Edith then put her arm round her
husband's neck, and whispered into his ear ; and what
she said was, ' I wish that snake would go !' But it
looked as if she had kissed him.

George Stent began to feel uncomfortable.

Are you going to the City ?' he asked Ronald.

Yes, by-and-by.'

I will wait, and walk with you. I wish to speak to
you,' said George solemnly. Could he believe his eyes ?
He actually saw Ronald's arm steal round Edith's
waist. After such a scandalous affair as that of last
night, and before a third person too ! It was incredible.

Seeing that they could not get rid of their unwelcome
guest, Ronald hastened to finish breakfast
and to start. Edith brought a rosebud, which she
fastened in his button-hole affectionately. She whispered
at the same time :

Don't give in to him, Ronald But don't quarrel
with him ; he is dangerous.'

You need have no fear, Edith dear,' replied he,
stooping to give her one last kiss.

When they had closed the door behind them,
Ronald at once began:

What have you to say, George ?'

I consider myself entitled to ask for an explanation,'
was the reply.

Of what ?'

Of your conduct last night.'

Of my conduct last night ?' What is there to explain,
please ?' inquired Ronald, staring hard at his
brother-in-law.

Why, everything !' replie d George.

'Don't talk nonsense. Say what you want to say,
and have done with it. I have nothing to explain.'

Nothing !' exclaimed Mr. Stent indignantly. * Do
you call it nothing to leave my dinner-party, to which
I had invited you, and go off with that fast Lady
Redbourne ? — to insult me and Clara, and your wife '

Stop, please,' interrupted Ronald. ' You may ask
me for an explanation or, at least, an apology for my
having left your little party so abruptly. But do not
bring my wife in. She has nothing to do with it, and

I have no explanation to give you about my conduct
towards her, nor indeed in any respect whatever.'


Indeed V said George sarcastically ; * no explanation
?'

None. I beg to apologize for not having dined
with you ; I was unable to do so, as my friends, whom
I had not seen for years, would not let me go. Do
you accept the apology ?'

So far of course I must,' replied George very
doubtfully, * about the dinner I mean.'

Very well, then, old man,' again interrupted Ronald,
let us shake hands, and say no more about it.
Now I must take a hansom, as I am late. Will you
come too ?'

Wait a minute,' said George, who had taken
Ronald's hand in a feeble, confused sort of way;
this is not all.'

It's all you will get out of me,' answered Ronald,

laughing. ' There, old chap, do not flurry yourself.
You have got your apology, and there's an end of it.'

His brother-in-law did not like this flippant joviality
at all. ' Ronald,' he went on gravely, ' having married
your sister, I am entitled to make some strictures as
to your conduct.'

You are not entitled to anything, George, except
to drive into the City with me, if you likes

As a member of the family, Ronald, I cannot stand
by silently and see you kiss another woman, and drive
off with her !'

'Are you off your head ?' asked Ronald quite
seriously, ' or did you have too much wine last night V

Neither, as you well know.'

'I know nothing about it. But you are talking
arrant nonsense, George.'

It is not nonsense, and I require an explanation,'
persisted he.

An explanation of your visions ! Pooh, George !

Hansom!' shouted Ronald. The cab pulled up to
the curb.

Look here, George,' said Ronald to his brother-in-law,
who could not at once muster an answer to what
appeared a flat and audacious denial of what he had
seen. ' The fact is, you must have taken my share of
the champagne as well as your own. You were
evidently as drunk as an owl. Lombard Street, cabby,
and look sharp. Ta-ta ! '

George stared after the cab in mute amazement.
He, George Stent, had been accused of being drunk !
and by a young man of the most dissolute character,
too ! What audacity ! Yet, by the behaviour of the
couple this morning, one could certainly suppose that
they were on the best terms, nay, very much in love
with each other ; and yet surely Edith was not such
an absolute fool as to have already forgiven what took
place last night ! Impossible. But did it take place ?
Was there a kiss at all ? He had never been drunk

in his life, and it was an insult to say he had ; but had
he been mistaken in the couple ? He raised his hat
and passed his hand over his forehead, thoughtfully,
then slowly turned Citywards.

THE VEHM.

Of course George Stent turned for guidance and
counsel to the clan. Ronald's charge rankled in his
breast, and was too bitter to bear in silence. He had
always consulted the family when in a difficulty, (sind
he would do so now. But before laying the matter
before the Grand Council, he would have a quiet talk
with his father. Could he leave matters as they were ?
Ronald was absolutely not to be trusted, and very
much worse than they had supposed. For he was
not only devoid of all moral sense himself, but actually
insulted his own relatives who were virtuous.

When Mr. Stent senior heard the tale he felt

extremely indignant. The tenderest toes of the Stent
family were trodden on. All the Tents loved their
wives and each other's wives, and the sacredness of
family ties was to them a very watchword. But as
old Mr. Stent had not been told to his face that he
had been drunk, he was of course less offended than
his son, who described with great bitterness both the
evening at Richmond and the interview of that morning.
Mr. Stent advised that George should make one
more effort to induce Ronald to repent. It was not,
he thought, in accordance with Christian charity to
condemn and punish him without giving him another
chance. Condemned and punished he should be, if he
refused to avail himself of it.

So father and son determined to go round to
Lombard Street at an early date, and have a quiet
chat with the criminal.

Things in Lombard Street were not going smoothly
on that morning. Certain ugly rumours had lately

reached the ears of the partners, and to-day there
were letters which seemed to confirm them.

I do not like the way the Wendovers are going on,
sir,' said Ronald to Mr. Woodall.

Nor do I. But I believe they are good enough.'
They will go if there's any general fall in prices.'
What makes you think so ?' asked Mr. Woodall.
I believe they have taken up none but really first-rate
schemes, and you know how strong they are.'

Then Ronald showed his senior the result of 'his
journeys, and his private inquiries ; and Mr. Woodall
was surprised to find that Wendovers had bolstered
up several concerns which might turn out prosperous
if the present inflation lasted a couple of months
longer, but which would certainly come down if there
were any reaction. They decided to decline Wend-over'
paper, though it was a ticklish thing to risk
offending so influential and powerful a firm. After
much consideration they decided to restrict all their

operations, a decision which Mr. Edward Woodall
took with much regret, and only on Ronald's earnest
solicitation. Never, said the senior, had there been
such chances of making large sums of money. But
Ronald stuck to his opinion that things could not goon
long in the same smooth and prosperous manner,
and that their duty was to increase their cash reserve
at the Bank of England, to discount very little paper,
and that only if absolutely above suspicion, and to
keep clear of new companies. Soon after this decision
had been arrived at, the chief clerk came in with a
bundle of shares.

Mr. George Stent has sent round for five thousand
on a hundred Chios wines,' he said.

Chios wines !' exclaimed Ronald. ' Let's see them.'

What are they quoted at ?' asked Mr. Woodall.
Ten to twelve premium, sir.'

They are fifty-pound shares, are they not ?' asked
Mr. Woodall.

Yes, sir ?'

How is the market ? and for how long does he
want the money V

Till next settling day. The market is lively and
rising, sir,' replied the clerk.

'Leave the shares here for five minutes,' said
Ronald ; ' we will let you know directly.' When the
clerk had closed the door, he turned to Mr. Woodall :

'This is one of Wendovers' companies, uncle.
Charles Andover and young Gaston are both on the
Board. I do not believe the shares are worth a
sovereign each.'

But he only wants fifty pounds, and they are
quoted at 61 J,' said Mr. Woodall.

Yes ; but they may go down to forty tomorrow,
and to thirty next day, if anything should go wrong.
I should refuse point-blank. Look at the prospectus !'
* Do as you please,' said his uncle, after glancing
through the papers which Ronald placed before him.

I believe you are right.' Ronald took up the bundle
of shares and summoned George Stent ^s clerk into the
waiting-room.

Tell Mr. Stent,' said he, ' that we are very sorry we
cannot oblige him. We cannot advance anything on
these securities. They are not the class of paper we
like.'

When George Stent received this message, his
ancrer knew no bounds. What ! refuse an advance on

o

valuable security to him, whose word in the City was
as good as a bank-note ? Not only was the company
supported by such unexceptionable people as
Wendovers ; but even had it been a doubtful success,
he, George Stent, was good for ten times the amount
asked for. He asked his clerk to whom he had spoken,
and the latter replied that he had only seen Mr.
Lascelles. It was, therefore, an intentional insult,
which, added to the former ones, made the cup of
Ronald's misdeeds overflow. The clan was summoned

for the next evening. The questions submitted were
the following :

First : A member of the family had been accused by
Mr. Eonald Lascelles of having been tipsy ; was this
accusation true or false ?

Secondly : Mr. Lascelles had misbehaved himself in
the grossest manner at Richmond, by abruptly leaving
Mr. George Stent's dinner-party, and spending the
whole evening with a set of fast friends, ending by
driving off with a coquette called Lady Redbourne!

Thirdly : If the accusation of drunkenness was an
unfounded one, Mr. Lascelles had also kissed the said
Lady Redbourne.

Fourthly : Mr. Ronald Lascelles had refused the
usual banking accommodation to Mr. George Stent,
and had thereby cast doubts on his credit and
seriously inconvenienced him.

Fifthly : What should the family do under the
circumstances?

VOL. II. 32

Poor Clara was summoned to give evidence on the
first question. She did not know why she was called
into the dining-room to meet all the male members
of her husband's family, or possibly she might have
stood up for her brother even before this august assemblage.
But Mr. Stent senior simply asked her whether
George was tipsy at Richmond on Tuesday night.

Of course not,' answered she, blushing and looking
very unhappy. ' What an idea I'

Ronald says I was,' observed George insidiously.

No, certainly you were not,' repeated Clara, feeling
suddenly quite angry with her brother, which was
exactly what George had calculated on.

Your brother did not dine with you ?' asked Mr.
Stent senior.

No. We were very sorry. He went away with
some friends,' replied Clara, unwilling to enter into
further details.

That will do, dear,' said the old man. ' You may

go to the drawing-room. We will join you by-and-by.'


The counsel then deliberated. As it was established
that George had been sober, obviously charges two
and three were proved, and their gravity was undoubted.
There could be no possible excuse. The
Tents had taken a snake to their bosom. Ronald
was not only an immoral character, but he was actuated
by hostility and malice to the clan, as was proved
by his two social offences and the grave commercial
insult which he had last committed. Not a voice
was raised in his defence, though Mr. William Stent,
who respected the aristocracy even more than his
brothers and cousins, suggested that as the person he
had flirted with was a lady of title, there might be
some excuse for his being carried away. But all
agreed that, even if that were so, it was no palliation
of the false charge of drunkenness Ronald had brought
against George, still less a reason for refusing to 



vance five thousand pounds on Chios wines. A
verdict of guilty having been recorded on all counts,
the clan then discussed at length what sentence
should be passed on the all-unconscious Konald.
Like the tribunal of the Vehm, the secret order went
forth at midnight, and every member of the clan
became an officer charged to execute it.

Ronald began to suppose that the whole thing had
blown over, and that he should hear no more about it.
He had yet to learn that a false step always has evil
results sooner or later. It is never entirely without
its consequences, though we sometimes, in our purblindness,
fail to recognise them as such.

Edith called on Clara in the middle of the day,
when she knew that her objectionable husband was
sure to be in the City. Mrs. George received her
sadly and tearfully. There was something in the wind,
and she knew there was, though not the nature of the
intended blow ; but the poor creature had become too

much of a Stent to make any endeavour to divert it.
She could only ask Edith dolefully how she was, and
on receiving a reassuring reply, inquire further, in a
whisper, how she was getting on at home.

Why capitally, dear,' reeked Edith, taking the bull
by the horns. * Why should we not ? Do you think
I am angry with Ronald for having dined with his
friends the other night ? Not a bit. I was silly to
be upset at the time — I have forgotten all about it
now.'

Thus she loyally stood to her guns, and Clara was
puzzled, like her husband when he called on the delinquent.
But she could not forget that Ronald had
accused George of being tipsy — an imprudent charge
which had sent his own sister into the enemy's camp.
She was, however, too timid to mention this offence,
and finding that Edith did not require consolation
and sympathy, talked of her health, and of the event
which was approaching. An undoubted constraint

arose between them, and both were glad when the
visit came to an end.

Clara was more than once tempted to warn her
brother through his wife, but she lacked courage and
the knowledge to do so. She would only have warned
him against an unknown danger, and she would have
done so at the expense of her loyalty to her husband.
So she held her peace.

Edith said nothing of her visit. Her anger against
George Stent was as deep as ever, and she quite determined
that the relations between the two families
should in future be of the most limited nature. She
need not have feared a renewal of their old intimacy.
For the male Tents had decided that Konald was a
black sheep whom no washing could whiten, and that
he must be excluded from the virtuous Stent fold.

On the Monday following Mr. Stent senior and
George called at the Bank, and asked to see Ronald
in private.

He held out his hand to the old gentleman, who
pretended not to see it, 'This was sufficient to put
him on his guard. So placing chairs for the visitors,
he leaned against the chimney-piece and waited for
them to speak.

Mr. Lascelles,' began the elder man, ' this is a
painful visit.'

Indeed ?' asked Ronald.

Yes, sir continued he. ' Of course you know why
we have come ?'

I have no idea.'

Mr. Stent looked at his son, amazed at the sinner's
audacity.

Surely, Mr. Lascelles, it is plain enough,' he went
on rather warmly.

Please tell me,' said Ronald.

Sir, you have grossly insulted my son and the

party he invited to Richmond '

I apologized for that,' interrupted Ronald.

In apologizing you aggravated your offence by
bringing an unjustifiable charge against George !'
Charge ?'
Yes. You dared to say that he was intoxicated.'

George talked some nonsense about a married lady
whom I deeply respect replied Ronald, smiling; * and
I concluded he had had a little too much wine. But
I did not mean to say that he was drunk and disorderly
! It was not a case of forty shillings or a
month. He was only a little excited, you know.'

It was Ronald's old flippant way, which was likely
to be more harmful to him now than it had ever been
before. Nor could he help the allusion to Lady
Redbourne. He would not have her abused by the
Tents, had she been even very much worse than she
was. The speech was intensely irritating to father
and son, and Ronald's manner still more.

Sir ! we have not come to be laughed at, nor to
hear you talking of that person '

Mr. Tents interrupted Ronald, ' be good enough
not to allude to the lady.'

Your conduct compels me to do so,' said Mr. Stent.
But it is unnecessary to dwell further on your
behaviour to your poor wife.'

That is nobody's business but our own !' exclaimed
Ronald hotly, ' and if you persist in interfering in
matters in which you have no concern I shall be
obliged to ask you to leave the Bank.'

This was the grossest insult of all. Thus to threaten
two Tents, who were received with attention and
obsequious civility in every office in the City, and
whose very presence was an honour !

*We had better go, father,' said George. 'I told
you it was of no use. He is quite hardened.'

Give the young man one more chance,' said Mr.
Stent. 'Mr. Lascelles, do I understand that you
refuse to apologize for the three separate insults you
have offered our family, not to speak of your extremely

offensive language to-day? Beware of the consequences
of your stiffneckedness.'

Mr. Tents answered Konald, ' I am really only
aware of one offence, which I have apologized for — that
of leaving your son's party. It is not worth all the
fuss you make about it. But as you are an older man
than I am, I will, if it pleases you, repeat that apology.
I am very sorry for my rudeness on that occasion.'

Come, I thought you would be reasonable,' said
Mr. Stent, quite pleased, while George began to fear
that his enemy would escape him. He determined
not to let him off so easily, and therefore touched
him on the tenderest spot.

You know I was not drunk, Ronald,' he exclaimed
roughly ; ' you must withdraw that insult. You know
I saw you kiss that woman.'

Nothing of the sort,' cried Ronald. * As you
repeat that libel, which, by-the-by, I advise you to
keep to yourself, otherwise you will get your head

punched, I must also repeat that you must have been
drunk or mad.'

You have spoilt everything, George !' exclaimed
Mr. Stent regretfully.

But I did see them, father,' persisted George.

Now, sir,' said Ronald, advancing towards his
brother-in-law, who shrank towards the door, ' I will
not chastise you at once, because, unfortunately, you
married my sister ; but I warn you at your peril to
repeat your charge. If I hear that you have done
so, I will horsewhip you publicly, though you may be
my brother-in-law. Do you understand ?'

George was as pale as death, and trembled all over.
His father stepped between them. ' That will do, Mr.
Lascelles,' he said. ' You are, I am sorry to see,
incorrigible. You must not be surprised at our withdrawing
our confidence.'

Withdraw whatever you d — n please,' answered
Ronald hotly, * Good-morning.'

A RUN.

Ronald paced up and down the room impatiently
he had closed the door behind them. His
temper was much ruffled, but, angry as he was, his
common-sense stepped in and warned him too late
that he ought to have been more cautious. In less
than five minutes he regretted that he had given way
to his indignation. His knowledge of George Stent's
character ought to have kept him cool. He flattered
himself that he could see through that very proper,
regular, and pedantic young man, and that he had
long ago detected the innate meanness of the character
which was so well disguised in apparent smugness and

good-nature. Yet he had neglected his knowledge,
and had courted the danger which that knowledge
ought to have taught him to avoid. He believed that
George Stent would not hesitate to injure him by
every possible means, and that his spite would vent
itself in secret attacks on the Bank which no skill and
no audacity would enable Ronald to parry. He perceived,
now it was too late, that he had no right to
assume so defiant a tone. His conduct would affect
not himself only, but others, and a consideration of
the possible consequences to the Woodalls ought to
have made him more conciliatory. He had given a
flat denial to George Stent's accusation though he
knew it was true. He had retorted by the counter-charge
of drunkenness, which he knew to be false.
Perhaps, according to the unwritten code of honour
which has to some extent taken the place of the ten
commandments among men of the world, Ronald
might be justified in shielding Lady Redbourne by a

falsehood. But no code justified his making an
irritating and groundless charge against a man who
might seriously injure the Bank of which he was a
junior partner. He now felt that he had been not
only rash and imprudent, but also morally wrong. A
sudden impulse came over him to rush after the
Tents and apologize. If he had followed it at once
perhaps many difficulties might have been avoided.
But at that moment Mr. Woodall summoned him into
his room, and a precious half-hour was lost in discussing
other matters. Before these were settled, the
chief clerk came in with a long face.

Will you look at these cheques, sir ?' said he to
Mr. Woodall. There were three of them, all presented
at the same time and all to the same effect. The
three Stent firms withdrew their balances.

Mr. Woodall made no remark. He was not in the
habit of conversing freely with any one in the Bank
except with Ronald. The chief clerk was an admirable

machine, but both the senior partners knew that
he was only a machine. Had he been capable of anything
better than running smoothly and noiselessly,
driving the other wheels with him daily from nine
o'clock to five, it is probable that Ronald would not
have gained his present post so easily.
Well, pay them,' said Mr. Woodall.
It's on account of our refusing the Chios wine
shares, I'm afraid, sir,' the clerk ventured to remark.

Never mind what it's for, Mr. Radlet. We can't
help it now.'

Mr. Radlet lingered a moment, as if anxious that
his principals should make some suggestion to turn
away the wrath of the Tents and keep their balances.
But they made none. So he departed unwillingly to
honour the cheques. The door had scarcely closed
when Ronlad spoke.

This is not only because of the Chios shares, sir.
I am now a very sorry indeed, but I fear I have mortally

offended George Stent and the old gentleman. May I
make a clean breast of it ?'

Then he proceeded to relate the whole story as
briefly as he could. Blushing, he told of his folly at
Richmond ; with a flush of anger he recounted George
Stent's morning visit. It was not pleasant to have to
tell Edith's uncle how ill he had behaved to Edith ;
and more than once he stammered and hesitated in
his tale.

At first Mr. Woodall stared and interrupted him,
not understanding how so domestic a matter should
affect the Bank. But Konald went on bravely, and in
his anxiety to take all the blame on himself, and to
place Edith's gentle forbearance in its true colours, he
made his own case even worse than it was. Mr.
Woodall shook his head more than once, and was disinclined
to believe that so old and experienced a man
as Mr. Stent senior would convert a till" between
Ronald and his son into a formidable family and business

quarrel. But when he heard of the interview
which had just concluded, his incredulity ceased,
though his wonder increased.

Now, sir — now that you know all — shall I go round
to Stent Brothers, and the rest of them, and apologize ?
I will do exactly as you think best

It would be a most disagreeable thing to do,
Ronald,' said Mr. Woodall.

Never mind that,' replied the young man ; ' I
must put my pride in my pocket. I have made an
awful ass of myself, and I'm ready to do my best to
put matters straight, if I can. The Bank must not
lose through my folly.'

I would not ask you to do it, my boy,' said the
senior kindly.

I know you would not, sir. But if it is a wise step
to take, I will take it. Please not to consider my
feelings at all.'

'It is difficult to know what to do,' replied Mr,

VOL. II. 33

Woodall, thoughtfully. ' If they had not been in such
a hurry to close their account I should say, '* Go by all
means. You've made a blunder, so beg their pardon
for it." But you see the matter is almost public property
now. If you apologize, they will think it is
because the Bank wants their money, and it would
never do to allow them to fancy that.'

No, indeed,' acquiesced Ronald.

Mr. Woodall leant back in his chair and chewed the
end of the little stumpy pencil he always carried in
his waistcoat pocket.

You see,' he said, after a few minutes' reflection,
'if you go to them now , they'll think /'m apologizing ;
that Woodalls, in fact, are apologizing. Now, we've
nothing to apologize for. I would not lend money on
those shares to-day, any more than I would last week.'

Far less,' remarked Ronald. * What we have
heard since about Wendovers' is not reassuring.'

Certainly not,' agreed Mr. Woodall. ' In fact, I

believe your caution did us a good turn.' After a
pause he added : ' No. You must not go to them,
Ronald. We must do our best to get on without
them. We managed to exist without the Tents before
you joined us, and I dare say we shall manage again.'

All I fear, sir,' said Ronald, 'is that they may do
the Bank harm.'

How ?' inquired Mr. Woodall. * Not by withdrawing
their balances ? Why, the total is scarcely worth
thinking about.'

No,' answered Ronald ; ' not by that alone. I
think they will walk about everywhere and injure us
in every possible way.'

I don't believe it,' replied Mr. Woodall. ' You area
little prejudiced, Ronald, and I'm not surprised ; but
you are wrong about this. George Stent may be a
fussy, meddlesome ass, but he is not such a scoundrel
as to try and ruin the Bank.'

Indeed, I hope not, for it would be all my fault !

33—2

But I fear lie is worse than you think, and I should
like to take every step your experience can suggest.
There is a big storm coming, anyhow, Tents or no
Tents; and though we've already shortened sail, I
would be more careful than ever.'

By all means I' said Mr. Woodall. ' We'll look out
for squalls.'

The big storm, however, if storm there was, did not
approach very rapidly. On the contrary, during the
next few days every speculative security was in
demand, and several new ventures were brought out.
But though the financial sky appeared clear enough,
the private affairs of Woodalls were not prospering.
When, one afternoon, Mr. Edward Woodall made
some business calls, he read strange news on the faces
of some who called themselves his friends. Not a
word was said to him that did not imply absolute
confidence ; not a hint was dropped in his presence
suggestive of any doubts in the stability of the Bank.

But Mr. Woodall had not been in the City for over
thirty years for nothing. He discovered more from what
men did not say than from what they said ; he read
more on men's faces than he learnt from their words.
And when he returned to the Bank a quarter of an
hour before closing time, he found the place much
fuller than usual. There was quite a crowd of persons
before the counter of the paying cashiers. And in
that crowd there was far more impatience to hand in
strips of blue paper than was usually displayed.

What is the matter, Ronald V he asked anxiously,
as he stepped into the private room, where he found
the young man poring over the big books.

Well, sir,' replied he, ' Cosgroves, Opinions,
Davis, and several more have closed their accounts.
The private customers are drawing out pretty fast.'

Anything to hurt ?' asked Mr. Woodall.

Nothing to hurt yet, sir,' answered Ronald. * It's
five minutes to four, and there won't be much mischief

done now. But I went round to the Continental
just now with Walker's bills, so as to have something
in hand, and they said they would rather not discount
any more at present.'

Good heavens !' exclaimed Mr. Woodall. ' Why,
Walker is as good as the Bank of England, and do
you mean to say they would not take his paper with
our name behind it ?'

That is the state of the case, sir. Their manager
kept me waiting twenty minutes, and then said that
he was sorry he could not oblige me ; but they were
restricting their operations.'

Bosh r cried Mr. Woodall. * Restricting their
operations, indeed ! I know better than that. But I
do not understand it in the least.'

I am sorry to say that I do,' said Ronald. * The
Tents have done it.'

Done what ? What does it all mean V

It means, sir, a run on the bank

THE West-end.

In the City it was close and almost suffocating on
that June evening. The atmosphere was yellow, the
sky dull and coppery. The narrow streets were lot
as the flues of a furnace, the paving stones and asphalte
burnt the soles of the busy foot-passengers. When
the shutters were put up at Woodalls' Bank, aid
when the great front-door was closed, Ronald felt as if
he would choke. Light seemed to be shut out, not
for that evening only, but for ever. Mr. Woodall
might think that all this was only a momentary alarm,
a fright among the customers which would quickly
subside ; but Ronald thought he knew better.

During the last twenty-four hours, sinister rumours
about the Bank had rapidly spread throughout the
City. People who had known both the Woodalls for
years denied that there was any foundation for them,
but they were so persistently reasserted on what appeared
good authority, that the faith of the Bank's best
friends began to be shaken. It seemed to Ronald that a
fearful and disproportionate punishment was being
meted out to him for his Richmond folly. He would
willingly have suffered the penalty himself, but that
others, innocent of any transgression, should be
dragged down into wretchedness with him seemed too
unjust to be borne. His work, his energy, his untiring
exertions for the Bank had all been worse than wasted.
How often he had declared to himself that Woodalls
should never repent their bargain, and should never
regret having made an impecunious young man their
partner !

Many times even in the last few weeks he had

looked down the columns of figures with satisfaction,
and had whispered to himself that youthful energy,
combined with caution, would prove more valuable to
the firm than capital ! How he had slaved during the
past months to collect information, and to find out
whom the Bank should trust and to whom they should
refuse credit ! What a mass of work he had gone
through ! Was the fruit of all this labour to be dust
and ashes ? It appeared likely. For though the
Woodalls could easily have met all the claims of their
private customers, the sudden withdrawal of confidence
by the large business firms could not but be fatal.
There was no time to realize, and the very securities
which would have been as good as Bank of England
notes under .ordinary circumstances became little
better than waste paper, in consequence of the alarm
among their clients. Though Mr. Edward Woodall
did not share all Ronald's fears, he went out immediately
after banking hours to call on some old friends.

and try to obtain assistance and restore confidence.
Konald remained in the stuffy office, almost gasping
for relief and fresh air.

But in the West there was no gloom on this hot
summer's evening. The Park was at its brightest and
gayest. The light westerly wind blew the smoke and
fog over to the City, and the thinnest of mists scarcely
veiled the blue sky. The Row was full of riders ; the
Drive was fuller still of smart carriages. Gaily dressed
people crowded the paths, and ladies in cool, fresh
summer garments occupied all the chairs. Lady Redbourne
pulled up her well-bred chestnut cobs, whose
arched necks were flecked with foam, and stopped the
phaeton close to the rails. She was handsome, well
dressed, fashionable, rich, and a Countess ; therefore
her carriage was soon surrounded by a knot of loungers.
A few ladies stopped in their walk for an interchange
of civilities, and then passed on. The men, however,
remained longer, striving for a few words from so

charming and attractive a woman. For a beginner in
London society, it was a distinction to have the honour
of knowing Lady Kedboume, and to be seen talking
to her in the Park was equivalent to a certificate of
good birth and good breeding. Lady Melbourne looked
round for Ronald, who, on that eventful Richmond
evening, had promised to meet her in the Park whenever
he could get away from the City. But one fine
evening had followed another, and Ronald had not
kept his promise. The beautiful American never
suspected the real reason of his absence. She would
not have believed for a moment that one of her old
admirers— perhaps the only one for whom she had
entertained more than a mere passing fancy — would
voluntarily deprive himself of the pleasure of seeing
her. A doubt of her own powers of attraction never
entered her head. Yet she was a clever woman of the
world, and knew more about business and money
matters than most people supposed. She was perfectly

aware that Lascelles had no money of his own,
and, as she said, ' putting two and two together,' she
had formed a theory, thoroughly satisfactory to herself,
which accounted for his having married Edith,
and also accounted for his absence. He was, she
thought, quite right to embrace the opportunity and
the banker's daughter ; and being an able and intelligent
young man, he was also quite right to work hardin
his new position. Poor fellow ! he must be still
simmering over his big books in the hot City, instead
of leaning over the rails in the green, breezy Park to
talk to her ! So Ronald was forgiven, though she
wondered that he had not written even a conventional
note of regret. Perhaps he would turn up to-day,
and explain himself. She glanced over the heads of
the men who surrounded her, and tried to find the
well-known pleasant face in the crowd behind. She
did not see him whom she sought, but her beautiful
dark eyes rested for a moment on the faultlessly

attired figure of Mr. Munden, who instantly raised
his white hat and pushed his way towards the
phaeton.

Lady Redbourne bowed languidly, while the newcomer
eagerly approached her.

How are you to-day, Lady Redbourne V he inquired.
'You look irresistible, as usual, and those
cobs are improving every day '

Tell me something amusing, Mr. Munden,' said
her ladyship. ' I am bored. I have not heard anything
but stale jokes and tiresome compliments.'

When people see you, they forget all the rest of
the world,' answered Munden.

Don't be foolish. Have you no news V

Oh ses !' answered he. ' Mrs. Road has run away
with young Hexham, and Road is sending all the
London detectives after them.'

Oh 1 I have heard that three times already,' replied
Lady Redbourne, half concealing a yawn. ^ What a

fool she is ! Quiet, Soda ! Can't you stand still ?'
she continued, addressing one of her cobs.

Creole will win next Wednesday Munden went on,
trying to think of something interesting for the exacting
lady.

He is not good enough for the Derby,' replied
Lady Redbourne. 'I do not think he can stay the
course.'

There is nothing better, and Winchester is backing
him for a fortune.'

So much the worse for Lord Winchester ! You
will see that Uxbridge will beat him.'

'I will lay you the odds he does not, Lady Redbourne,'
said Munden.

What in ?' asked her ladyship.

Anything I can afford,' replied the gentleman.
Tenners, if you like.*

No r answered Lady Redbourne ; * that would
not be fair. I hate betting for money. I tell you

what we will do. If you lose, you shall give us a
picnic somewhere '

And if I win, Lady Redbourne ?' he interrupted.

Then you must depend on my generosity !' she
answered, laughing. ' You shall have a park hack, ora
T-cart, or some other toy that will please you !'

Done !' exclaimed Munden, rapidly calculating the
position of the horses in the betting, which gave him
about three to one the best of it, on the supposition
that the picnic would cost as much as the hack, which
would scarcely be the case.

Where have you been to-day ?' asked Lady Redbourne,
as she saw that her cavalier was still anxious
to continue the conversation.

Oh, slaving in the City as usual,' he replied.

Slaving ! It's much better than idling about doing
nothing, like most of the men one sees about. You
need not be ashamed of it. Anything new in the
City V

Nothing particular. Oh ! I beg pardon, though.
There's something wrong with one of the banks. I
don't suppose you care about that.'

Why not V asked she. ' I look after my own
money, you know. Lord Redbourne has nothing todo
with it. So I am always anxious to hear what the
banks are about.'

By-the-bye,' continued Munden, maliciously, * you
should be interested in this one, too. I forgot that
you were fond of young Lascelles.'

Mr. Munden !' exclaimed Lady Redbourne, flushing.

Oh ! I don't mean anything. Only it's his bank ;
at least, the one he calls himself a partner in.'

What ?' asked she. ' Has it failed ?' She waited
almost breathlessly for an answer.

No,' he replied, ' not yet ; but they say it will go.
There was a run on it this afternoon.'

Have they been speculating, then V inquired Lady
Redbourne.

'Certainly not. It's the last thing old Woodall
would do; and they say in the City that young
Lascelles is as sharp as a needle, and as cautious as a
Scotchman. Oh no ! I believe there is some spite at
the bottom of it ; jealousy of some one, I suppose.
But of course when once people begin to lose confidence,
everybody draws their money out, and then
the concern must go

'Without any fault of the partners?' asked her
ladyship. ' That is horrible !'

So it is,' assented Munden. ' But in the City, you
know, like everywhere else, it's the devil take the
hindmost.'

Then Mr. Lascelles will be ruined ?'

I suppose so,' said Munden calmly, ' unless someone
lends them a big lump. And that,' continued he,
with a light smile, ' isn't very likely just now. Sorry
for your friend. Lady Redbourne.'

Oh, never mind my friend, Mr. Munden. We

VOL. II. 34

will go on, Frank she said, speaking to her groom.
And with a slight nod to the golden youths around,
Lady Redbourne gave the cobs their head, turned out
through Albert Gate and drove thoughtfully up
Piccadilly. Where she drove at this advanced hour
of the afternoon may presently appear.

Poor Edith had an anxious time that evening
Following her uncle's instructions, Ronald whispered
no hint to her of impending misfortune. But his
harassed looks and the lines of anxiety on his forehead
were easily detected by her when he returned
home just before seven, and announced that he must
at once start for the North on business. For it had
been decided that the best chance of weathering the
storm was to get the Manchester and Leeds people to
help them. For many years Woodalls in London had
advanced money on piece goods and iron-work which
went out to Italy ; and Woodall of Portino or their
agents had been paid when the merchandise was sold.

Therefore to the manufacturers whom he had more
than once helped over difficulties Mr. Edward
Woodall naturally turned when he himself required
help. It would not do for him to leave the Bank, and
Ronald had made the acquaintance of all these friends
during his recent journeys. So, although the senior
partner thought that they might possibly pull through
without assistance, yet he accepted Ronald's offer to
go North with ready warmth. If anything were to be
done, it must be done at once ; so it was agreed that
the young man should start for Leeds by the night
mail, and if he were not entirely successful there,
should proceed to Manchester the next afternoon,
unless recalled by a telegram from London. Ronald
had an hour in which to dine, pack, and make his
adieux. His attempts at cheerfulness, at an assumption
of indifference, as if this journey were no more
than all the others had been, were an entire failure.
With the keen eye of a faithful wife, Edith saw through

34—2

it all ; saw that he was frightfully anxious and nervous,
saw that some danger impended. He parried her
questions as well as he could, but only succeeded in
showing that he did not wish to answer, not in dispelling
her fears. If he had only been in entire
sympathy with Edith, if he had loved her as she
loved him, he would have told her everything without
hesitation; for he would have known that the
loss of money was a misfortune she could contemplate
with calmness, and face with courage. It would be
very disagreeable, no doubt, but Edith could never
have brought herself to consider mere poverty to bea
great calamity. In comparison with the catastrophe
which she had feared on that Richmond evening, even
the ruin of the Bank v^ould have appeared insignificant.
If she had Ronald, what would it matter whether they
had four hundred a year to live on, or three thousand?
But Edith did not know what was the matter, and,
far from suspecting the truth, her anxiety took quite

a different turn. Was Konald engaged in some
adventure connected with the fascinating woman
whom he had met a fortnight ago ? Had that
lady, whose attractions she felt to be far greater
than her own, persuaded her husband into some
hasty step which would bring misfortune and disgrace
on himself and death to her ?

When Ronald's cab drove off, she felt as she felt on
that dreadful night— an awful fear lest he should
never return ! It was of no use arguing with herself
and telling herself that it could only be business,
and nothing more ; that he had often been to Leeds
before, and had safely returned to her in a day or
two ; that Ronald himself had said he was going on
business. Terrible fear still haunted her, and was
proof against all reasoning.

Once she had almost decided to drive off to
Wimbledon and see her Uncle Edward. But then
it struck her that she would make a fool of herself.

and of Ronald as well, by surprising the family at ten
o'clock at night with an inquiry as to her husband's
whereabouts. She was to have gone to a party on
that evening, but she had not the courage to face a
crowd of fashionable people. She remained at home,
and retired to what should have been rest, anxious,
sleepless, listening for every sound, and her heart
beating whenever a carriage drove down the short
street.

END OF VOL. 11.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

^:

m

t^i^'<jr-

^iJN- k^^^£^<^

^^^

''SifeiH

^ ^ouel.

WANDERER,

Author's *Face DIANA,' 'ACROSS COUNTRY,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :

SWAN SONNENSCHEIN AND CO.,

PATERNOSTER SQUARE.

1885.

f

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER XXXI.

A STRANGE VISITOR IN LOMBARD STREET.

The bright dawn of the glorious June morning Halted
up Ronald's haggard face as he stumbled wearily out
of the train, and sought a few hours' rest at his hotel.
It crept through the shutters of the little house near
Park Lane where the anxious wife was watching and
waiting. With its rosy rays it made her feel ashamed
of her suspicions. Why should she do Ronald the
injustice to suppose that he was deceiving her ? It
was a cruel insult to him ! He might be impulsive,
VOL. III. 35

but was incapable of a cold-blooded scheme of desertion.
To Edith the morning light seemed full of hope. It
was shining into a large house, not a quarter of a mile
off, where Lady Redbourne's maid was unclasping her
diamonds. She had spent several hours in what is
called society, talking, dancing, and drinking the
intoxicating cup of flattery almost to its very dregs.
But she was not weary. On this morning a peculiar
brightness shone from her dark eyes, her usually pale
cheeks were flushed, and her bosom rose and fell with
an unusual agitation. She seemed happy and full of
life, and in a brisk voice told her maid to wake her at
eight o'clock — an order which that elegant lady could
not at first understand, for her mistress was not an
early riser under any circumstances, and after a late
night seldom rose till noon.

At Wimbledon the dawn found old Edward Woodall
tossing uneasily on his bed, starting up from dreams of
disgrace and the Bankruptcy Court. For a searching

examination of his position, which he had carried out
on the previous evening, showed that Ronald was
correct in his diagnosis, and that unless a hundred
thousand pounds were found within the next twenty-four
hours, or confidence was entirely restored, the
Bank must close its doors. Beyond his wife's comfortable
settlement, which had for years been in the hands
of trustees, Mr. Woodall had but a moderate amount of
property that he could at once realize, and he knew
that his brother was in the same position. What he
could scrape together would of course be made
available at once, but he had deducted this sum
before estimating the deficit at a possible hundred
thousand. If it had not been for Ronald's caution
during the past few months, a quarter of a million
would not have sufficed to meet all engagements at
a day's notice. The credit of a bank is its life-blood ;
none, however strong, can withstand a sudden and
entire withdrawal of confidence. It operates like the

:]5— 2

stoppage of the pulsations of the heart upon the
human body. Life depends on it entirely. Would
Eonald succeed in obtaining help in the North, and
would he, Edward Woodall, succeed in restoring confidence
in the City ? He was obliged to doubt both.
The sum required was too large for the one, and the
panic seemed too universal for the other. The alternative
was terrible to the old man, to whom the
credit of the Bank was a religion. Of course the
estate would * cut up ' well — they would pay twenty
shillings in the pound without the slightest difficulty ■;
but what a dreadful things to have to close the old-established
house, when they were not only solvent,
but were probably in reality more flourishing than ever
before !

Not once during that long night did Mr. Woodall
think of blaming his unfortunate junior partner.
Although the misfortunes which were likely to befall
them were distinctly traceable to Ronald's imprudence,

no regret at his having joined the firm, no wish that
he had never been born, crossed the senior's mind.
On the contrary, he reflected with satisfaction, and not
without gratitude, on the prudence, quickness, and
caution which had characterized Ronald's business Hfe,
and when thinking of the possible future for all three
after the Bank had finally closed its doors, felt more
anxiety for the youth than for himself or for his
brother. There were settlements which would enable
the two older men to live in comfort, if not in affluence,
but for Ronald it might be difficult to begin the world
afresh. They had but one boy to look after between
them — Ronald might have a large family to provide
for. Grievously tortured as the poor man was with
fear for the morrow, with anxiety for the preservation
of his one idol— the credit of the Bank — yet was there
no trace of bitterness in his soul against the cause of
all the evil. Under Providence, he still hoped for the
best from his own exertions and those of his partners

for of course Mr. Woodall at Portino had been
apprised of the state of affairs by a telegram in
cipher, and had already replied that he would do
his best, but had no hopes of sufficient assistance
in Italy.

Mr. Woodall reached the Bank long before his
accustomed time, hoping that the morning's post
would bring some consolation. His letters, however,
were most unsatisfactory ; they contained numerous
orders for remittances, but not a single important
payment. Yesterday's distrust was evidently spreading,
and must needs swamp them altogether unless
something were done, and done soon. Before the
doors of the Bank opened there was a crowd on the
steps outside, a crowd which the poor old man
watched with a sinking heart through the peep-hole
in the shutter. There were clerks and messengers
innumerable, evidently sent to draw out money and
pay it in elsewhere. For people were not in such a

hurry to pay in as to come at a quarter to ten to wait
in Lombard Street.

For a few minutes he debated whether he should
take the shutters down at all — whether the Bank's
doors should be opened. Would it not be wiser to
pay no one, since it appeared probable — nay, almost
certain — that they would be unable to pay every one ?
It would perhaps be better to adopt the usual course,
and send at once for Messrs. Feather and Nest, the
great accountants, and place the affairs of the Bank in
their hands. But then the misfortune would be irremediable
! AVoodalls would have stopped payment ;
and even if they resumed their business the very next
morning, the blot on the escutcheon would remain.
Woodalls had stopped ! No. Such a step must not
be taken without the consent of all the partners.
They would pay as long as there was money in the
till, and a balance at the Bank of England. Sixteen
thousand pounds would be available in half an hour

from the sale of his own securities — perhaps this would
help them on till good news came from the North.
But a telegram was despatched to Portino, conveying
the dreadful news to Mr. John Woodall that if the
run continued, they must close their doors before the
day was out.

Then, having done all that could be done, the old
man sat down to his desk, and ordered the doors to
be opened to the eager crowd.

Calmly and steadily the clerks continued to weigh
out sovereigns, to write down the numbers of
bank-notes for five, ten, and fifty, and to pass them
over the mahogany counter to the hands stretched
out to receive them. Calmly and steadily the
accountant continued to refer to his ledger to see
whether the balances of the various customers were
sufficient to meet the cheques presented. Calmly
and steadily Mr. Radlet came in and presented to Mr.
Woodall a draft for twenty thousand pounds on the

Bank of England, which must be sent round at one,
so that the till might be replenished. And the senior
partner signed his name to it as calmly as if it had
been an everyday transaction — as if he had not known
that there was little more behind that cheque — that
when that also had gone, the knell of the Woodalls'
Bank would sound.

Scarcely had Mr. Radlet closed the door of the
sanctum, when there was another knock, and a clerk
brought in a card.

The lady would like to see you at once, sr,' said
he, presenting it.

The lady ?'

Mr. Woodall was surprised. He took up the card,
and read on it —

Lady Redbouene,

193, Grosvenor Square.

^ Are you sure that she wants to see me V asked

Mr. Woodall, who at once thought of Ronald's escapade,
and was naturally disinclined to discuss delicate
matters with a lady at this moment.

Yes, sir,' replied the youth. ' Her ladyship asked
for Mr. Lascelles ; and when we told her he was out of
town, she said she wished to see the senior partner on
urgent private business.'

'Show her in,' said Mr. Woodall, after a little
hesitation. He rose to receive his visitor, but, though
expecting to see a handsome and imposing person,
could not resist a start of admiration and surprise
when Lady Redbourne swept in. She was dressed in
black silk, with a small bonnet of the same sombre
hue. An atmosphere of the fashionable world, a
breeze of beauty and refinement, seemed to follow her
into the dingy Bank parlour. There was little colour
in her finely chiselled face, lighted up only by the
Hashes of those marvellous eyes. ' No wonder Ronald
made an ass of himself !' thought Mr. Woodall, as he

silently bowed and handed her a chair, himself standing
to wait her pleasure.

Mr. Woodall, I understand ?' she said, bowing
gracefully, and displaying a dazzling row of white
teeth as she spoke. ' I have come on business she
continued, seating herself. ' I want your advice and
help.'

Good heavens !' thought Mr. Woodall, ' the
woman wants to borrow money ! What a moment
to choose !' Aloud he said : ' I am at your ladyship's
service.' *

A faint colour rose to Lady Redbourne's cheeks,
and notwithstanding her knowledge of the world, she
seemed to hesitate how to proceed.

Mr. Woodall was confirmed in his opinion, and
wished her a thousand miles away. At that moment
there was a knock at the door. It was a telegram.
Hurriedly saying, * Excuse me, Lady Redbourne,
important business !' he tore it open. It was, as he

anticipated, from Ronald, who had not allowed the
grass to grow under his feet. The contents were not
encouraging. Translated into ordinary language,
they stated that he had obtained only thirty thousand
in Leeds, which being quite insufficient, he had
accepted conditionally on finding more help at Manchester,
where he was at once proceeding. This was
the last straw. Mr. Woodall knew that the end would
come long before Ronald had done anything in Manchester.
But with an effort he turned to his visiter
and said, calmly enough, ' I beg your pardon, my
lady. What can I do for you ?'

Lady Redbourne had had time to collect her
thoughts, and to decide on what she would say.

You may be aware, Mr. Woodall, that I am pretty
well off?'

I know that his lordship is considered very
wealthy,' answered Mr. Woodall.

'■ No ; independently of my husband. I am my

own mistress entirely, and have the absolute disposal
of my own money.'

Mr. Woodall bowed, wondering what she was driving
^t. but still fearing that all this was but a preface to a
request for a loan.

My name was Alma Monsell,' said Lady Redbourne.
' You may have heard it.'

Indeed !' exclaimed the banker. ^ Of course. I had
the honour of knowing your father, Lady Melbourne.
I was not aware that my old friend's daughter had
married in England.'

You see she did,' replied the lady, smiling ; ' and
my father, who was for many years in business '

Mr. Woodall nodded assent. ' He was an excellent
customer to our Bank, too !'

Left me the entire control of a very considerable
sum of money.'

I am glad to hear it, my lady,' said the banker.

Now,' continued Lady Redbourne, ' I am often in

difficulties as to what I should do with this money.
There is much more than I Avant. My husband is
very well off, and spends but little ; I spend a great
deal, but not half my income.'

'■ Yours is a very unusual difficulty, Lady Melbourne.
People generally know how to spend their
money. But why not consult your banker, if you are
merely looking for a good investment ?'

That is precisely the case. My banker is the Bank
of England, and they do not give advice. I have
bought a number of shares of various railways, and
have laid out a good deal in safe securities, preference
stock, and India stock, and that sort of thing, you
know.'

You have done very Wisely, Lady Melbourne.'

So I am told,' continued she, with increased assurance
and heightened colour ; ' but I have a good deal
left, after providing an ample income for myself.'

All the better • buy some more of the same sort,.

my lady said the banker, whose fears were now
allayed, but who was every moment expecting the
announcement that there was no money left in the
till.

That is what I thought of; but knowing that my
father acted a good deal by your advice, Mr. Woodall '
(which was a deliberate falsehood, as her ladyship had
only learnt five minutes before that the late Mr.
Monsell had ever had a transaction with the Bank), ' I
thought I would bring you the money, and ask you to
lay it out to the best advantage for me.'

There ! she had brought it out at last. But J\Ir.
Woodall failed to understand.

• I could only purchase stock for you. Lady Melbourne
; and that is what any broker would do just
as well he replied.

Oh no ; that is not what I mean. I have brought
the money, and you are to do just as you like with it,'
she replied impulsively. ' Here it is And with these

words she opened a small purse, a miracle of gold
filigree and ivory, and produced a slip of paper. ' I
suppose,' she continued, carefully spreading out the
paper, ' you will get me quite four per cent. That
is more than I can obtain in first-class securities
just now. I want this money to be used in the business,
you know.'

Mr. Woodall took the paper which she held out to
him. It was a draft on the Bank of England for
£120,000. He stared at her vacantly. ' Do you know
what you are doing, Lady Redbourne ?' he gasped,
after a minute's interval.

Oh, yes !' she answered readily. ' I am bringing
you a sum which I don't want, and asking you to take
care of it for me. You may speculate with it ; and
I'm sure you will make a great deal more of it than
I shall. Next Christmas let me know how much you
have made out of it ; and I suppose you will give me
some of the profits. I shall not know how much I'm

going to get, and it will be a surprise — quite a pleasant
Christmas-box, you know !'

But supposing we lose it, Lady Redbourne ?' stammered
the banker, still scarcely believing the evidence
of his eyes and ears.

I told you that I had plenty more !' replied Lady
Redbourne, rising from her chair. ' It would not
matter. But you won't lose it, Mr. Woodall. I am
not afraid of that. Many thanks. Good-bye.'

She held out her little hand, covered with a want
de Suede with ten buttons.

Stop !' cried Mr. Woodall, after a moment's hesitation,
for the temptation was indeed great : safety and
honour together were being offered to him. * I cannot
take advantage of you in this way. You do not know
all ; you have no idea of my position.'

'I know the Bank well enough, Mr. Woodall. I
have absolute confidence in you and — and — in Mr.
Lascelles.'

VOL. III. SQ

Lady Eedbourne, you drive me to distraction ! Do
you know that I am ruined ? In a quarter of an hour
the Bank must close — must close for ever !'

Is this not enough, then, to save you V asked Lady
Redbourne, turning quickly. ' How much is it you
want ? Tell me at once !'

Mr. Woodall flushed scarlet, and then turned pale asa
ghost, and sank back on his chair. ' Then you knew
all about it, Lady Redbourne ?' he stammered. ' You
know that we are on the verge of bankruptcy ?'

Supposing I do,' Lady Redbourne asked, ' what
then ? Will this be enough to make you comfortable
?'

Enough ! Aye, more than enough ! But I do not
dare to take it. What claim have we on your ladyship,
that you should come forward thus generously and save
the old firm from destruction ?'

'Never mind claims. You did many kind things
for my father in old times. Do not let any false

scruples stop you, Mr. Woodall. I know that the

money is safe enough '

'Indeed, Lady Redbourne, if unceasing work and
watchful care can save us and your money, they shall
not be wanting,' said the banker, whose power of
resistance was gradually failing. ' But, still, I do not
like '

Nonsense ! I have made up my mind, and shall
leave the cheque with you. Cash it. It wil do you
more good than me, Mr. Woodall.'

I do not know how to express our gratitude, Lady
Redbourne '

No thanks, please. I am glad to be of use. By-the-bye,
don't let people in the City hear anything about
this little transaction of ours. It is a matter between
ourselves, you know. Good-bye.'

And with a graceful bow she swept out of the room.
The rustle of her train made all the clerks in the Bank
look up from their occupation. Even Mr. Radlet

36—2

forgot the imminent danger for a moment, and
poked his grey head out of the glass screen which
surrounded his desk. In another minute he heard
the sharp Httle bell from Mr. Woodall's parlour, and he
was summoned in.

'That means putting up the shutters,' he said to
himself with a groan, as he tucked the cash-book
under his arm, and climbed down the steps of his
private desk. ' It's all been running out since yesterday
morning, and nothing coming in. Oh dear ! oh
dear ! that I should live to see the day when Woodalls'
Bank had to stop payment !'

^ Radlet,' said the senior partner, almost before the
chief clerk had closed the door behind him, 'take
this draft of the Burlington Gardens Branch to the
Bank of England, and place it to our credit.'

The wizened, leathery face of the old man was
suddenly lighted up as if with the glow of youth,
when he took the slip of paper in his hand and

read the magic words : Pay Messrs. Woodccll, or
order, one hundred and twenty thousand pounds.
Lady Redbourne had been as delicate as she was
generous. The draft was signed by the manager
and cashier of the Bank. Her name did not
appear on the document.

Shall you want a cheque for the till ?' asked Mr.
Woodall, enjoying his clerk's surprise.

Where did you get it, sir ? How is this ?' Radlet
exclaimed, startled by joy out of all his propriety.

Never mind, Radlet,' said Mr. Woodall, kindly
placing his hand on the old man's shoulder. ' Help
has come when least expected. Take it, and be grateful'


Give me five thousand for the pay-clerks, sir, and
that will be plenty. With such a horse in the stable,
we can snap our fingers at the Tents and all of
them.'

Mr. Radlet almost skipped out of the room, and

rushed to his hat, which he lifted off its peg with
a joyous jerk. To the head accountant he just
whispered ' All serene,' and bolted out of the Bank,
and round the corner of Threadneedle Street, like a
rabbit.

THE JOURNEY NORTH.

It was nearly two o'clock on this eventful day when
Ronald reached Manchester. The previous day's
anxiety, a sleepless night, and a long morning spent in
that most painful of all occupations — reminding people
of favours conferred in past times in order to induce
them to give immediate help now — had almost exhausted
him. He felt as if he would rather sit down
and let the inevitable blow fall on him than again
begin that dreadful round of visits, telling his sad
tale, and asking smug cotton-spinners and wealthy
merchants for their assistance. So far he had met
with a polite reception by all. He had had a series
of confidential interviews in private offices — had been

listened to with deference, and even with sympathy.
Nearly every one of his business friends had expressed
a wish to help, if he could. But everything turned on
that little if. They were all of them unaccountably
tight, notwithstanding the general prosperity of trade.
All had their money locked up, and were so largely
involved themselves that they would be glad if they
could get through the next three months safely. On
their own showing, none of the firms had done any
satisfactory business for some months, if not years.
Mr. Edward Woodall was such an old friend, and the
Bank had always been so straightforward and generous,
that they would do anything in their power to help ;
but, really, times were so bad that they could not, with
justice to themselves, place any funds at his disposal
just now.

There were two exceptions to this summary of
the answers Ronald obtained. One was a comparatively
small firm which had had dealings with the

Bank on a small scale for several years. They handed
over a cheque for five thousand pounds — an enormous
sum for them — with the simple remark, from the senior
partner, that Mr. Edward Woodall had saved them
from ruin in 186 — , and it was only fair that they
should do their best now. And another house, which
exported large quantities of iron-work to Italy, was
willing to trust Ronald with its acceptances to the
extent of twenty-five thousand. He took the paper,
promising not to make use of it unless he could cover
the total he required among his friends at Manchester.
Very little hope was there of such good fortune. The
hours passed far too quickly, and even if he obtained
what he wanted, the help might come too late. Very
likely the Bank must stop before he could see the
Manchester people. Ronald hurried into the big hotel
opposite the station, not to waste time over luncheon,
but just to see whether there was a telegram for him.
It was quite possible that at this moment the shutters

were already up in Lombard Street, and the affairs of
the Bank in the hands of the liquidators. He glanced
over the wire-covered frame. Yes 1 there was a yellow
envelope addressed to himself. Hastily tearing it open,
he read as follows :

Everything is satisfactorily arranged. No help in
the North is necessary. Return at your convenience.
You shall find a letter at home.'

A great weight fell from his heart. He felt as if he
had suddenly grown a couple of inches taller. He
could hold up his he^.d again, and look the world in
the face. But of course he did not understand how it
had been done, and, with his usual tendency to ask
himself questions which could not be answered, he
immediately fell to unquiet cogitations as to how and
where the money had been raised. But he did not
forget to send grateful telegrams to Leeds, and to tell
his two real friends that their kind assistance would
not be wanted. Then the claims of hunger began to

assert themselves, and he was soon sitting comfortably
at the best luncheon the hotel could afford, happier
than, an hour before, he would have thought it
possible to be. The time-tables showed that he could
not reach town till eight o'clock, so he telegraphed
to Edith to expect him at dinner, and, before the swift
express had cleared Stockport, Ronald's weary eyes
were closed in a dreamless sleep.

But the mind, less exhausted, though more excited,
than the body, did not remain long at rest. Visions
again troubled his slumber — visions which had "ho apparent
connection with his waking thoughts of the
previous day and night. There were strains of soft,
seductive music, and glimpses of some bright ethereal
space, all lighted by something less dazzling than the
sun, and less garish than the gas-lights of earth. There
appeared before him a confused mass of colour, of
intermingled figures in graceful attitudes, of dark
and fair faces, of maidens or angels coming and going.

Then they all seemed to melt into a mist, and from
the mist stepped forth one clearly defined figure — a
tall woman wearing long, dark robes, with a bright
star, far brighter than any jewel, glistening in her
raven hair. The apparition was stately, yet there
was a sweet smile on her lips, and her black eyes
flashed with a fire which was not of pride nor of
disdain. Her features seemed well known to the
dreamer, and in his vision he tried to identify
them. But then they became indistinct, and he
lost them again in the mist. Then the music
ceased, and there emerged From the mist, close by the
side of the beautiful figure which had enchanted
him, another hideous one — a horrible fiend with
huge misshapen limbs, a long, thin, cadaverous
face, hairless scalp, great bony knotted hands,
which the creature was rubbing over and over
each other while making horrible grimaces. Grinning
fearfully, the bogey approached Ronald and laid its

fearful hands on his throat. They closed on it like a
vice, while the features became more and more like
those of George Stent. There was the same large mouth,
the same dropping jaw ; he recognised the fishy eyes,
now fixed on his victim in a glassy stare. The sickly
yellow skin stretched over the projecting cheek-bones,
and was laid in huge folds on the narrow but apparently
endless forehead. Ronald tried to shake him
off, but his arms seemed paralyzed. Tighter and
tighter those bony fingers held his throat, while a
gleam of satisfaction, of fiendish joy, shot from those
fish-like eyes. Another second, and he would be
choked by the foul fiend. Then suddenly the
beautiful apparition stood out clearly once more,
and turned to him with the smile he knew well, and
with a glance from those black eyes which seemed to
promise relief and freedom, and more still. Her
features were now clear enough 1 how could he
ever have forgotten that short straight nose, those

red lips curled in a graceful arch, that broad, low,
clear forehead, those dark eyebrows, and the white
temples, so transparent that the blue veins were seen
beneath them. It was Alma Monsell ; and she raised
her hand, and even as he was suffocating in the grasp
of the fiend, she touched the creature with the tips of
her taper fingers. With a long shriek the monster
released his grasp, and sank suddenly into a heap of
dust. Ronald woke with a start. Alma Monsell, George
Stent, the music, the mist — had all disappeared, but
the shriek still sounded in his ears. It was the shrill
whistle of the engine as the train drew up at Rugby
platform.

He did not sleep again, but thought, and wondered,
and pondered. This was the third time that the
same beautiful vision had appeared to him, and
between the last two dreams there had been the
reality. He would have shut out the dream from his
thoughts ; but he could not drive from them the

remembrance of that Richmond evening. He had
bitterly repented his folly, connected as it was withall
the anxiety of the past week, and with poor Edith's
generous and gentle conduct. He had reproached
himself hundreds of times with his flirtation, and had
called himself by every opprobrious epithet he could
think of. And yet in his inmost soul there was a
deep feeling which was not regret and not repentance.
He did not acknowledge it. Nay, he repressed it
with energy when it would force its way to the surface
through all obstacles. It was an unholy feeling of
joy, of exultation, of blissful recollection of that blissful
kiss on the Richmond terrace and the drive home.
He knew that it was wrong and wicked, and he drove it
down again, and stamped upon it, and felt thoroughly
ashamed of it, as treason to his gentle wife, as cowardly
and utterly contemptible. But it came back nevertheless,
and even as the train sped through the wide
pastures of Northamptonshire his recreant thoughts

flew back to that vision of beauty which every better
feeling told hint must be driven for ever from his
heart.

But, as he approached London, remorse and repentance,
and struggles to conquer his rebellious temptations,
alike disappeared before his curiosity as to the
means whereby the Bank had been saved. Of course
he thought that Mr. Woodall had found unexpected help
among some of his old and tried friends. Perhaps one
of the large financial institutions had come forward.

At any rate said Ronald to himself, ' there is
nothing in all this that can possibly be connected
with Lady Redbourne, except that I started the rolling
stone by my folly. Why on earth I dreamt of
her and George Stent I cannot make out ! She has
never seen Stent, except on the lawn at Richmond,
and probably knows no more of him than of the man
in the moon. The notion of her saving me, too, is really
quite absurd ! What queer things a fellow dreams ! —

so queer as to be absolutely unlike anything I ever
could experience in reality. There must be something
in it, though, for there is no doubt that George has
done his level best to choke me. It will not be his
fault if the Bank hold its own after all.*

While the tickets were being collected at Willesden,
George Stent and his father, and William Stent, were
discussing matters in the dining-room at the old
gentleman's house.

There has been a heavy run on Woodalls'* since
yesterday,' said the senior.

Yes,' assented George, * but they seem to have stood
it all right.'

'It would be a sad thing if they went,' remarked
William, ' though they do not deserve to get through it.'

Certainly not,' said his father. ' A bank in which
a person like Ronald Lascelles pulls the strings is
bound to go sooner or later.'

VOL. III. 37

I wonder they did not shut up to-day,' remarked
George.

They won't open tomorrow ' said William, with a
thin smile. ' Feather, Nest, and Co. are called in by
this time, I should think. And we shall see in the
City article of the Times that an unsuspected and
unaccountable panic brought the Bank down, but
that no blame whatever attaches to any of the
partners.'

My opinion is,' said Mr. Stent senior, ' that they
have got through the worst of it, and that they will
be all right for the present.'

What makes you think so, father V asked
George.

Various circumstances which have occurred today.
They have been restricting their business lately,
I hear, so their liabilities are small ; and their paying
everybody without a hitch all day yesterday and today
will restore confidence.'

'Of course!' said William. 'But how did they doit?'


'That I do not know. They must have had better
friends than we thought.'

What fools their friends must be !' exclaimed
George. 'As if such a godless liar as that fellow
Ronald could help bringing a concern to grief

Probably he will do so at some time or another,'
said Mr. Stent senior. ' But Providence is inscrutable.
Some of the most impious men make a great deal of
money ; and perhaps young Lascelles will be no exception.'


I never can understand how such men can contemplate
the dread hereafter,' observed Mr. William
Stent reflectively.

The chastening of adversity might have turned the
young man's thoughts to higher things,' Mr. George
Stent said piously, ' If the Bank failed, and he had
to work hard for his bread, he would probably become

37—2

worthy of grace at some future time. For his sake I
could have wished that misfortune would overtake
him thus early, before his heart was quite hardened.'

You are quite right, George,' said Mr. Stent senior.
Those views do you honour. But the City is worldly,
George, and you must be careful when you speak to
worldlings. They might misunderstand you.'

Of course, father,' assented the son. ' We are alone
here, and we may say to each other that, for the sake
of Ronald's soul, the failure of the Bank would be a
good thing. But that is only our private, spiritual
opinion. In the City, and from the point of view
of '

The British merchant V suggested Mr. Stent
senior.

Precisely ; from the point of view of the British
merchant, it would be much to be regretted if so old
and respected an institution as Woodalls' Bank were
compelled to close its doors.

Well said, my boy !' said Mr. Stent senior approvingly.
He repeated the words with some gusto, rolling
them out solemnly and slowly : ' from the point of
view of the British merchant, I should much regret if
so old and respected an institution as Woodalls' Bank
were compelled to close its doors ; and,' he added, in
his ordinary tone, placing one hand on George's
shoulder, while he pointed the forefinger of the other
at William's waistcoat, ' I don't think the respected
institution quill. Look here, boys : old Woodall is
sharper than most of us think. Mind your p's and
q's. His shop is as safe as the Bank of England, and
will be all the stronger for the storm. If you don't
mind, he will serve us out some day. Hush ! there's
Gimlet. Now let's go to dinner.'

HUSBAND AND WIFE.

Edith read her husband's telegram with a deep sigh
of relief ; and while she laughed at her past fears, she
reproached herself more than ever for her suspicions.
It was not only absurd, but entirely unjust to Ronald,
to suppose such horrors as had kept her awake all
night. The reaction Which followed the news of his
return made her very happy, and a feeling of gentleness,
and generosity, even towards George Stent came
over her. She could almost forgive his nasty, sneaking
slander, though she could not yet forget it. She
knew nothing else against him, as of course Ronald
had kept the Bank's business to himself. Her heart

leaped when a cab drove up to the door and the bell
rang. She ran downstairs to receive her husband,
whom she found standing in the hall reading a letter,
which had come from the office for him by special
messenger. He scarcely noticed her approach, so
absorbed was he in its contents, which were short
enough, but appeared difficult to grasp, for he read the
note three times.

Strange 1' he at last exclaimed ; ' who on earth was
it ? Oh, Edith, I beg your pardon ! How are you,
dear ?'

Three months ago she would have been grieved to
the heart because he did not fly to her arms first of
all, before even thinking of a letter, much less reading
it. But lately she had been so well accustomed, to
friendly instead of loving greetings that she scarcely
noticed his want of warmth. Had she done so, she
would have ascribed it to his business anxieties ; for
though she knew nothing of the cause of his journey.

she had read enough on his anxious face, and had
guessed enough from his worried looks, to be sure that
there was something very serious the matter. But
this evening, in the hall, now lighted up brightly,
Ronald also looked bright, and almost his own self
again ; though there was a line of deep thought on
his brow, and a trace of fatigue in his eyes.

I shall not be long dressing,' he said ; ' I'm as
hungry as a hunter. It's all right, little woman,' he
added, seeing her look at him wistfully ; ' I'll tell you
all about it by-and-by.'

And when dinner was over, and he had lighted a
cigarette, and Edith had placed a cup of black coffee
on a little table by his side, and had just put the
right quantity of sugar in it, she sat down on a
hassock at his feet, and laying her arm on his knees
said :

Now, Ronald dear, tell me all about it.'

Now that the danger was over, there was no reason

why he should conceal from his wife what ordeal they
had passed through. She knew enough of her father's
business to require but little explanation. She had
read so many letters from business people, had written
so much for Mr. Woodall at Bagnuoli, that she understood,
without any exposition of general principles
how, if confidence is suddenly withdrawn from a bank,
its failure cannot long be delayed. Ronald had prefaced
his story by telling her that everything was now
satisfactorily arranged, so she had no anxiety as to
the result. But, before he had finished, she asked :

Have you any idea how this run was caused,
Ronald ?'

Of course I have,' he answered. ' People went
about to their friends, and said they were afraid we
were in a bad state. Then their friends told others,
and so everyone rushed to get his money out. We
have always had the private accounts of a number of
City people, and of course these were withdrawn in

cash, while the business accounts were being taken
out by cheques payable to other banks. The balance
against us was terrible when we exchanged paper the
night before last.'

Well, but who started these reports ? Who went
about telling their friends you were in a bad way ?
Somebody must have done it.'

'Oh, yes; somebody did it. It is not difficult to
guess who it was.'

Who ?' asked Edith, standing up in her excitement.
' Who could be* such a wretch ?'

Why, the Tents did it, to be sure.'
The Tents ! George ?'

George and his precious brother, and father, and
the whole kit of them.'

How horrible ! Why should they try to ruin
you, Ronald ? Why, George Stent is your brother-in-law
!'

Worse luck !' answered he. ' He tried to ruin me

because I offended him the other day about — about —
some other matter.'

What about, dear ? — tell me.'

Ronald could not tell her quite all, but he told her
nearly the whole truth.

You know how he came in to us. Well, when we
went out, he made some ridiculous charges against
me ; and when I laughed at him, and told him he must
have been drunk, he went to fetch the old man, and
they both came to the Bank and wanted me to
apologise.'

Edith squeezed his arm.

And of course you would not ?'

'Well, I apologized for having left your party at
Richmond ; though I think I ought only to have asked
your pardon, dear, not his. But I would not go any
further. And that djd not satisfy them ; and George
began abusing a friend of mine, whom I was bound to
stand up for.'

Of course assented Edith.

Then I threatened to knock him down.'

Quite right ! The nasty sneak, meddling with
what does not concern him a bit ! He deserves to be
treated as you treated the Marchese.'

That was not all. I do not think that there would
have been more than a family row if Mr. Woodall and
I had not refused to lend money on the security of
some shares which we considered worthless. That is
what finished it.'

But in all this you have been quite right, Ronald !
You were right all through. How could they dare to
speak ill of ^'^ou V

My dear child, I am sorry to say I feel that in the
beginning of the quarrel I was wrong — very wrong.'
And he stretched out an arm, and laid it round her
slender neck, and drew her head towards him. ' I
was wrong at Richmond,' he said, kissing her eyes,
and that was the start of all the mischief.'

Oh !' exclaimed Edith, blushing, ' that was our
business — my business, not his. Besides, what had that
to do with the City ?'

Nothing, dear, and I assure you I don't justify his
actions, God forbid ; for a meaner lot than the whole
clan does not exist. But I understand them.'

I don't,' said Edith candidly. * I do not understand
how anybody can be so vile, to his own brother-in-law,
too 1 But did George go about with his father
and tell people not to trust the Bank ? Surely you
could punish them for it, if they did ?'

No ; he was not so audacious. He would not have
had the pluck to do that, as he might have suffered
for it. This is the sort of thing, you know. He might
drop in on Atkinson's, or Cartwright's, or any big firm
for which he was doing business, tell them about
prices, and inquire whether there was anything he
could buy or sell for them. Then, when that was
settled, he would ask : *' Have you heard anything

about Woodalls' ?" Of course they would say, " No ;
what was it ?" Then, no doubt, he would at once
pretend to be pleased, and say, " Oh, very likely it
wasn't true — he was so glad ; but there had been unpleasant
reports about." Then he'd say, " Good morning,"
and go.'

Well ?' asked Edith ; * surely that is not enough to
upset a bank like yours V

'Not by itself. But then just think what might
happen. People know that the Tents are connected
somehow with one of us ; so of course Cartwright, or
Hildesheim, or any one of the chaps to whom George
had dropped a hint, would go over to old Stent's, who
is considered A 1, and he'd say, " What is this I hear
about Woodalls' ?" Then the old humbug would
answer, " I can't believe it ; I'm awfully sorry about
it," and shake his rascally head. Then, of course, the
visitor would cry out that it was true, then, and ask
particulars. I'll take my oath that all they got out of

Stent was, " I know nothing against them. I assure
you I don't believe the rumour one bit. But of
course we have thought it prudent to withdraw our
balance." I can see it and hear it all as if I had been
there !'

How dreadful !' exclaimed Edith. ' What next ?'

Why, next, of course, the men that had seen old
Stent rushed and told everyone that the Bank was
going, and in an hour the panic was started. It did
not take long, I assure you, and I know this is how it
was done.'

And is there no way of punishing them V

None,' replied Eonald. ' I shall try my best to
find out how and when the whole thing was begun ;
but I am pretty sure that they have not left me a
single tittle of evidence to get hold of. No ; they are
far too cunning for that !'

But how unutterably spiteful and wicked !' exclaimed
Edith. * Now make haste and tell me how

the Bank was saved ; I am burning to know. I'm
sure you did it, you clever pet !'

I am afraid I cannot take the credit of it said
Ronald, tapping her cheek playfully with his finger ;
I am not so clever as all that.'

Who was it, then V

Well, your uncle did it somehow, and I am wondering
how. Here is all I know, and all yovb can know
till tomorrow.'

He handed her Mr. Woodall's letter, evidently
written in a hurry. It was dated ' Lombard Street,
6 p.m,' and ran as follows :

No doubt you will have received my telegram,
which I sent in triplicate to the three addresses for
fear of missing you. A friend of yours placed a hundred
and twenty thousand at our disposal this morning
at 11.30. Particulars verbally. Soon afterwards
Weldon, of the Continental, sent over and said he

would discount our drafts on Walker, and I told him
we did not want the accommodation. That settled it.
The run stopped before lunch ; and this afternoon a
lot of them have been sending cheques round to makeup
their balances, as they say.

Yours affectionately,

*E. W.
*Pes.— Don't talk at present.'

Who is your friend — your generous friend V asked
Edith eagerly, when she had read the note.

That is exactly what I am puzzling about, and
cannot guess for the life of me,' replied Ronald. 1
do not know people who come forward in the nick of
time, and lend large fortunes in a casual manner. I
wish I did.'

I suppose that, unless you had had this money,
we should all have been ruined V asked Edith.

Entirely. It came just at the eleventh hour. Of
VOL. III. 38

course that Continental man heard of it somehow, and
that was why he offered to help us. Yesterday they
refused.'

How nasty and mean people are !' said Edith. ' But
there are some very good and kind, Ronald. This
friend of yours, for instance.'

Indeed you are right, dear,' he replied. * I wish I
knew who it was. That man might demand anything
from me. I shall never force this, if I live to be a
hundred.'

I should think not !' exclaimed Edith. ' I cannot
think what we shall do to thank him. Words say so
little, you know.'

Very little. They are not worth anything.'

And it is so difficult to prove that one is grateful,
Eonald,' she said, after a moment. * If that man came
in now, I should hug him right before your eyes.'

I wish he would give you a chance, dear I I should
not be a bit jealous,' said Ronald smiling.

I wonder if we shall ever be able to do anything
for him 1'

My sincere hope is that we shall said Ronald. ' It
is the more generous and the nobler that his money
might all have been lost.'

Such a lot, too ! It makes me quite dizzy to think
of a man doing all that for a friend. What a good
true friend you have, Ronald ! How happy we are to
possess such a one !'

We are, indeed,' assented he. ' I wish I kne\Y who
it was. But, try as I will, I cannot think of a single
individual, nor any firm, who could have a tenth of
that money to dispose of, and who would risk it for
my sake.'

You have an unknown friend !' said Edith, ' and
such a friend as few ever get.'

Well, I shall know who it is tomorrow.'

'Ronald dear,' she began, after a pause, 'I Tyrant
you to do me a favour.'

38-2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

Anything you like, Edith said he. ' Go on. What
is it ?'

You must telegraph me tomorrow as soon as you
know the gentleman's name.'

That is not much.'

'Oh no ! that's not the favour. I shall thank him
in my heart then, when I receive your telegram. But
I want to go and thank him myself as soon as
possible.'

Ladies do not generally go and see City men,'
observed Konald ; ' for I suppose it must be some
man in the City.'

But City men* do not generally lend their friends a
hundred and twenty thousand pounds.'

True,' he assented, ' It is certainly an exceptional
case.'

And you will let me, Ronald T

We will talk it over when we know who it i^'

No, Ronald dear,' she urged. * Whoever it is, and

wherever he Ives, you must let me go and thank him
for having saved you, and dear papa, and Uncle
Edward and me, and everyone. Now promise.'

Very well, dear, you shall go. I am sure he will
be pleased to see you, anyhow, if you look as nice as
you do now.'

For Edith had more colour than usual, and her eyes
sparkled with the excitement of the story and its
conclusion, while her dress — a simple muslin with light
blue ribbons — suited her fair complexion and hair.

Don't be silly, Ronald,' she said, in her* heart
delighted at his paying her a compliment at all, for
he was very chary of compliments.

I shall go to bed, for I was awake all last night,' said
Ronald, yawning.

I shall remind you of your promise tomorrow,
Ronald.'

WHAT COULD HE DO ?

Ronald was at the Bank very early — long before Mr.
Woodall arrived. He read the letters — which, this
time, all betokened returning confidence — looked
through the books, and had a chat with Mr. Radlet.

*A narrow squeak it was, sir,' that gentleman
observed. ' Lord ! when the governor rang his bell
at twelve o'clock yesterday, I thought it was all U. P.
I was never more frightened in my life.'

Who lent us the money?' asked Ronald. 'My uncle
did not mention it.'

I don't know, sir. It was there, ready for us at the
Bank of England. Just in time, too ! And I tell

you what, sir he added, lowering his voice. ' Mr.
Woodall don't seem to know, but it's all along of those
Tents.'

I felt sure of it,' remarked Ronald. ' So you have
traced it to them, have you ?'

Not quite that, sir. But you know the employed,
and particularly the young men, hear a good deal of
talk that a partner would not hear. I have no doubt
whatever that Stent Brothers started the thing,
and that Stent and Cowcroft spread it all over.
We have picked up as much as that from the
clerks.'

We must try and bring it home to them if we can,
Radlet,' said Ronald.

Indeed we shall, sir. A set of low-lived ruffians,
to try and break a Bank like ours !'

At this moment Mr. Woodall walked in, and Mr.
Radlet discreetly retired. In a few minutes Ronald
was in possession of all the circumstances. The blood

rushed to his head when he heard the name of the
banker's benefactor, and for a minute or two he was
unable to collect his thoughts.

/ Uncle Edward !' he at last said, ' you ought not to
have taken it !'

Not have taken it ? Why I tell you she knew all
about our position ! She knew that without help we
should have to stop in an hour. And she brought it
on purpose to help us I'

I should have refused it,' said Eonald, manfully.

You would have been a great fool, then answered
his uncle. ' Of course as long as I thought that she
knew nothing, and considered the Bank quite safe and
prosperous, I declined the money. I told her to go to
her stockbrokers' and buy consols or railway debentures.
I would not have touched it, of course. But
when it came out that she knew what she was doing,
that, in fact, she had come for that very reason, why
matters changed altogether. Besides, she is a daughter

of old Monsell's, and was a customer of our Bank for
years !'

Ronald knew very well that the late Mr. Monsell's
connection with the Bank had not influenced his
daughter, but he was so utterly surprised that he was
unable to frame an answer.
Mr. Woodall went on :

You will see in moment that I was right,
Ronald. By refusing, I should simply have ruined
my brother, myself, and you too. By accepting, I did
no one in the world any harm. Just look at our
balances to-day ! Why, by Monday next we shall be
able to pay her her money back, and not even feel it.
It's actually pouring in ! The fact is, they are all
ashamed of having doubted us, and are trying to makeup
for it.'

But she might have lost it all,' observed Ronald.
No ! I would not have taken sixpence if I had
not known that it would pull us round.

We had no claim on Lady Redbourne at all.'

None, I confess. I suppose she considers my
junior partner a devilish nice young fellow,' said Mr.
Woodall, who was sometimes rather more inclined
to plain speaking than Ronald quite liked ; ' and I
tell you what, my boy, she is a very fine woman — a
beautiful woman, indeed 1'

That makes it all the worse I'
Mr. Woodall stared.

Oh, you are thinking of the little adventure you
told me about. Ton my word, Ronald, you're a very
lucky fellow. You dine with a lovely, fashionable
creature at Greenwich '

Richmond, sir.'

Oh, well, it's all the same. At Richmond, then.
You dine with this magnificent creature ; she takes
you home in her own trap, and a fortnight afterwards
she brings you a hundred and twenty thousand
pounds just when you want it most.'

You seem to forget, sir,' said Ronald, who was
extremely uncomfortable, ' that I married your niece

Well, 'pon my soul I did, just for the moment,'
exclaimed Mr. Woodall, laughing. ' All this put poor
little Edith out of my head. But she is none the
worse for it ; on the contrary. Why, if the Bank had
gone, there would only have been her money for
you to live on, and that's very little — scarcely enough
for pin-money,'

I know,' said Ronald, with a sigh.

What are you groaning about, then ? Edith will
be as pleased as any of us.'

I do not think so.'

Oh, buy her a new bonnet, and take her to the
opera. It will be all right ; she won't be jealous.
You are not afraid of her, are you, my boy ?'

No, Ronald was not afraid of his wife. He was
far more afraid of himself. A huge wave of gratitude
was overwhelming him — gratitude to the very woman

whom it was treason to think of, because he could not
think of her merely as a friend. He had worked fora
fortnight to trample out every spark of a warmer
feeling towards Lady Redbourne. He had to still his
beating heart, called her a coquette, a flirt, a fashionable,
frivolous woman. He had contrasted her character
with Edith's, and had declared to himself that
there could be no comparison. He had resolutely
shut his mental eyes to her charms, to her fascinations.
He would not think of her, not allow her
name to cross his mind ; she should be to him as if
she never existed ; he would not dream of her — if he
could help it. Now this frivolous woman, who, as he
thought, or rather had determined to think, had taken
possession of him at Richmond for mere pastime, had
flirted with him because it happened that he was
comparatively new and fresh to her, this spoilt beauty
who had married a decrepit nobleman for rank and
position, this hollow, worldly creature had quietly

come down to the City and placed a large proportion
of her own fortune in his hands — had volunteered a
sacrifice which all the old friends of the firm had
individually and collectively declined. How was this
noble deed to be reconciled with the other traits of
her character ? How could the same Alma Monsell
who had almost cut him two years ago at Ascot
because he was not sufficiently grand for her, the
same Alma Monsell who had promised to love, honour,
and obey that dreadful old Lord Redbourne, of her
own impulse risk a huge sum to save him, married ashe
was, from ruin ? It appeared so inconsistent as to
be incomprehensible.

Ronald had yet to learn that women are very often
inconsistent and illogical ; that the more a man sees
of the opposite sex, the less he knows about them —
except this, that their ways are not his ways, and are
inscrutable to the masculine mind. If he had been
ten years older, he would probably not have attempted

to account for Lady Redbourne's conduct. But if he
had been ten years older, she would probably not have
stepped in to save him from ruin.

He sat in his chair, disturbed by violent emotions
of the most varying character, puzzled, dazed, not
knowing what to say or what to do. At one
moment he would have liked to scrape up the money
and carry it back to Redbourne House. At another,
his head was full of thankfulness, and he rejoiced
over the new tie between that dazzling woman and
himself Then again he would condemn his own
thoughts utterly, and impatiently wish to shake himself
free from the obligation which bound him. For,
disguise it as he might, he felt that the debt he owed
to Lady Redbourne would not be repaid by merely
giving her back her money. He would always owe
her his commercial honour, and any wealth he might
accumulate in the future, and every luxury he might
lavish on his wife, his horses, his carriages, his very

home itself, would always be due to her and her only
It was a situation far too perplexing to permit him to
converse calmly with his uncle, who meanwhile had
been reading through the letters and attending to the
morning's business, which promised soon to resume its
usual course.

And how about the telegram which he had promised
Edith ? Should he send it ? He must transmit
something, or she would be anxious. Should he tell
her the truth at once, or break it to her gently in the
evening ? He was tempted to the former course, for
he was positively afraid of the construction she might
put on Lady Redbourne's assistance. He was innocent
of anything since the Richmond dinner, and had
neither seen nor written to Alma. But would Edith
believe in this innocence ? — would any wife believe in
it ? And was he really so absolutely guiltless ? Of
course in the literal and legal sense he was perfectly
free from sin ; but he was conscious of thoughts and

dreams which would not bear discussing with his
wife. He wished he had never told her of their
trouble at all. Tien he need not have told who had
helped them through it. But it was now too late to
repent his words.

He must tell her the truth. Even if he chose to
conceal the name of the firm's saviour, on the score of
business exigencies, Edith would be sure to hear of
it sooner or later. Lady Redbourne herself would probably
make no secret of her assistance. Perplexed and
excited, Ronald at last sent a vague telegram, promising
full particulars in the evening, and then endeavoured
to settle down to the day's work. His power of concentration
did not fail him, but he found it much
harder to work than usual. As a rule, Ronald was
able to dismiss everything from his thoughts except
the business in hand, and was entirely a City man as
soon as he reached Lombard Street, forgetting all
about matters unconnected with the Bank's affairs.

To-day, he was no less assiduous than usual, no less
acute in gauging the drift of the people with whom
he spoke, no less intelligent in guessing what his correspondents
really meant from what they omitted to
say. But instead of doing his work easily and without
being aware of its difficulty, it was to-day one
continued conscious effort. It cost him a struggle to
keep hold of the threads of the various transactions
before him, and only by rousing himr^olf repeatedly to
due attention was he able to carry on a sustained conversation
or write a letter to the point.

When at last the showery, dull day approached its
close, when he had read through and signed a huge
pile of letters, had carefully, with less rapidity and
far less accuracy than usual, compared the figures of
the various cheques 'in' and 'out,' he gave a sigh
of relief, but the end of his work brought no look of
happiness to his face.

Most men rejoice when they have escaped a great

VOL. III. 39

danger, and in the previous day Konald had rejoiced
greatly. Now, however, he could not share Mr. Woodall's
obvious high spirits. He seemed to have lost his
power of distinguishing between right and wrong.
The circumstances were so involved that he was
unable to decide what it was his duty to do, still less
to do it. Thoughtful, anxious, and worried, he walked
West, hoping that he would on his way home see
what course he ought to pursue, what steps he ought
to take to express his gratitude without again
seeing Lady Eedbourne, and also without appearing
either to avoid, or still less to insult by a cool letter,
one Who had shown him her good will in so noble a
manner.

It was a hard problem to solve. If he had had no
other duties, if he had been unmarried, he would have
rushed off to Redbourne House and thrown himself at
the feet of its beautiful mistress. He would have
kissed her hands and declared himself her slave ; he

would But it was idle and sinful to think of

what he would have done under such circumstances,
for he was not free, and he had to act according to
different rules altogether. He did not dare trust
his strength of mind by paying his benefactress a
visit, in order to express his thanks in words ; Ronald
knew himself and his feelings too well. The visit
would be a dangerous one to himself, to Alma Redbourne,
and to poor Edith. On the other hand, should
he simply write to her and say that he was very much
obliged for what she had done ? Would not such a
letter, considering the terms on which Lady Redbourne
and he had last parted, be nothing short of an insult ?
It would indeed be an ill reward for her generosity,
that the man for whom she had done so much should
not even trouble himself to come round and thank
her.

Perhaps stern moralists, who had never been
tempted, might suggest that he should call on her,

39—2

and, in a moving and pathetic address, point out to
her that his duty to his wife, and hers to her
husband, prevented his doing more than thank her
very warmly for what she had done. But Ronald
could not very well now assume the character of the
virtuous preacher; and, had he done so, he felt
that he would be open to the extremely unpleasant
retort on the part of the lady, that she never expected
any more than warm thanks, and that it was a deliberate
piece of impertinence to come and lecture her
as if she had. And even if he could have been guilty
of such a piece of fatuousness, he felt that one glance
from those dark, unfathomable eyes would destroy his
whole fabric of righteousness, and bring him to his
knees before the offended beauty. Again, to pass the
matter over in absolute silence, as if it had never
occurred, was out of the question. Lady Redbourne
might be justly indignant at such gross ingratitude —
at the coolness which might seem to imply that she

had done nothing out of the ordinary way, nothing
that deserved even commonplace thanks.

The more he pondered, the more difficult did it
become sto decide on any action; and yet the more
necessary did action of some sort appear to him. Nor
were even his reflections entirely guided by reason and
morality. He tried his best not to be swayed by
other feelings ; but they asserted themselves nevertheless,
and interfered with his thoughts far more than
agreed with his peace of mind. So he reached home
in a thoroughly disturbed condition. His head
ached violently, he felt utterly weary, and yet his
mind was too agitated to allow him to wish forrest.


How tired you look, Konald dear !' exclaimed Edith
when she saw him. ' I am sure all this work and
worry has been too much for you. I wish we had not
got to dine with the Beadles to-night.'

*■ Never mind,' said Konald languidly ; ' I dare say

I shall be all right by-and-by. Give me a cup of tea,
please. I have had a very hard day.'

He sat down in an armchair.

The tea was ordered, and then Edith asked a question
which had been most on her mind during the day.

Who was it, dear ? Who helped you ?'

*Lady Redbourne,' replied Ronald calmly, staring
over his wife's head at the pictures on the wall.

Lady Redbourne !' cried Edith, utterly amazed.

Yes. I should not have let them take her money if
I had been in the City ; but your uncle Edward accepted
it while I was at Leeds.'

I know — I know,' said Edith hastily. * But surely
you had some idea of it ?'

None whatever, till this morning.'

'Did she send the money straight to the Bank,
then, without any inquiries or anything ?'

So it appears,' replied Ronald, still looking at the
picture. ' She even brought it herself

Good gracious !' exclaimed Edith. ' She went to
the City, then V

So they tell me. She rather astonished your
uncle he added, with an attempt at a smile.

I should think so, indeed ! Did you not expect it,
then, at all ?'

Just then the tea was brought in, and the entrance
of the servant interrupted the conversation.

While Edith poured it out, it suddenly struck her
that she had better not ask any more questions. A
horrible sickness came over her, and she had to grasp
the edge of the chimney-piece to prevent herself from
falling. For a moment there was entire darkness
before her, and she felt as if she were sinking into a
bottomless abyss. With a strong effort she recovered
herself sufficiently to hand Ronald his tea. Then she
sank into an easy-chair, and tried to collect her
thoughts.

One terrible fact stood out clearly — a fact which no

one could doubt ; which even Edith, in the innocence
of her pure heart, could not hesitate to accept ascertain.
This beautiful and rich Lady Redbourne
was so much in love with her husband — with her own
Ronald — that she had sacrificed a large fortune to
save him.

Edith, I fear it is time to go and dress.'
It was Ronald's voice which roused her.

Yes she replied dreamily, and left the room without
another word.

EDITH S TROUBLE.

People at the Beadles' remarked that the young
Lascelles were not such good company as usual. She
seemed dull and distraite ; while he was excited and
nervous, and talked faster, and listened less, than was
his habit.

Ronald noticed his wife's low spirits, and asked her
what was the matter as soon as they were alone
again.

Nothing,' she replied.

For indeed it was nothing which she could tell him.
She could not reproach him with having inspired
Lady Redbourne with a love strong enough to save

the Woodalls' Bank from ruin. That might be no
fault of his. And if he returned the beautiful
heiress's love, it would be still less right to reproach
him ; for reproaches would not bring back to her his
lost affection. So she was silent, brooding over her
thoughts, and feeling that there could be no relief to
her pain. She shared some of Ronald's feelings.
She perceived, instinctively, that he was worried
because Lady Redbourne had saved him, though she
now fully believed that he loved Lady Redbourne.
She knew Ronald too well to think that he could be
happy under a strong sense of obligation to one who
ought to have been no more to him than a mere
acquaintance. He was evidently nervous and troubled
about it, and she pitied him for his troubles, as well as
pitying herself for her overwhelming grief.

It was too great and too dreadful to dwell upon.
Her whole life was suddenly and entirely altered.
There was no future for her, no hope, no pleasure ;

the harrowing doubts of the dreadful hours she had
spent waiting for her husband were bliss in comparison
to the awful certainty she had now acquired.
There was an end of everything for her; it was useless
to struggle against the calamity. She would do her
duty as well as she could ; but she did not believe
that she could bear her life long. She had no one in
whom to confide. Her eyes were dry, and her heart
was dead within her.

If Edith had had a mother, she might have wept
out her sorrows in her mother's arms, and found some
consolation. But her father was a thousand miles
away, and she could not have told her father of her
grief even if he had been in London. It would have
been like accusing Ronald, and she had nothing of
which to accuse him. Only it was her misfortune not
to be sufficiently handsome nor sufficiently fascinating
to preserve his heart in her keeping. She would
have preferred that the Bank should have failed.

than that it should have been saved by Lady Redbourne.
Far better to live carefully, somewhere in
Italy, on her small income, than to owe the luxury
of her surroundings to the woman her husband loved
better than herself.

She could scarcely manage to speak to him. There
was a choking sensation in her throat which seemed
to prevent her uttering the merest commonplaces.


Ronald felt that a constraint was on both himself
and her, and he sought means to pull down the wall
which seemed to be growing up between them. He
would have liked to tell her that he loved her as
much as ever ; this would indeed have been literally
true, as this history shows ; but even this white lie
was beyond his power to utter. He wished to tell her
that he had neither written nor spoken to Lady
Redbourne since the Richmond evening ; but Edith
might not believe him, or, if she did, it would look as

if he were excusing himself. His sleep was agitated,
and he rose, scarcely refreshed, to take a walk in the
Park before breakfast.

Glancing, as usual,, at the Morning Post, he noticed
a paragraph which stated that Lord and Lady Redbourne
had left London for a time on account of his
lordship's healthy which was causing some anxiety.
These lines were a real relief to him. He would at
once write Lady Redbourne a short note expressing
his regret that her absence from town prevented his
thanking her personally for her generous aid at a
critical time. At any rate nothing more need be
done for the present. Edith would soon 'come
round,' and he would himself try to forget the
dazzling apparition which had removed George
Stent's cruel hands from his throat. It was a
reprieve, if not an actual pardon ; and yet he could
not repress a pang of disappointment that his duty
no longer compelled him to call at Redbourne House

a course which he had decided to adopt as the only
satisfactory one.

At breakfast he endeavoured to talk to Edith, but
found the task beyond his powers. It was Saturday,
and by previous arrangement they were to go to
Wimbledon on that day, and remain till Monday with
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Woodall.

Ronald was afraid of this visit, because he could
not gag Edith's uncle nor her aunt, and he feared
that something indiscreet might be said. He took
the precaution to ask Mr. Woodall not to speak of
Lady Redbourne.

The senior partner smiled, and said :

All right, my boy ! I suppose Edith is a little bit
jealous, eh ? I'm not surprised. Egad, she's a tine
woman — a wonderfully handsome woman !'

When Ronald asked whether Mrs. Woodall knew
who had helped them, the old gentleman almost
stared.

Of course she does ! Why, she could not help
knowing all about the run on the Bank. I was not
home till ten o'clock for three days running. It
would have been more than my place is worth not to
have told her !'

On the whole, however, things did not turn out so
badly as he anticipated. There were several people
to dinner on Saturday evening; Mr. Woodall was
very jovial, and produced his '34 port, which was
reserved for special occasions, and Ronald might
almost have forgotten his domestic troubles if Edith's
pale face had not reminded him of them.

What a pity her nose always gets red when
she is worried !' was the brutal thought that
struck him, as brutal thoughts will sometimes
flash across the brain of even the most refined of
men.

Edith tried to be merry with the rest, but failed
signally ; and her kind hostess could not but be

struck with lier woebegone appearance and low
spirits.

My dear child she said next morning to Edith,
when the late Sunday breakfast was over, and the
ladies were supposed to be getting ready for church,
'sou are not well. Is anything particular the
matter ?'

I have only a little headache, aunt,' replied
Edith.

It is a very persistent one, then. You looked
wretched last night ; not a bit like your own pretty
self Mrs. Woodall kissed her affectionately. ' Now
all these troubles are over, you must not get ill, you
know. I am afraid Ronald has been telling you of
his business worries, and they have been too much
for you.'

I shall soon be all right,' answered Edith, smiling
faintly.

I wish you Avould lie down in the little drawing-room

instead of going to church,' continued Mrs.
Woodall. ' I am sure you ought not to do anything.
You want rest dreadfully.'

I am not tired, aunt, really. We have not been
out much this week''

*You had not much chance, considering how
matters have stood in the City. Poor Ronald ! Your
uncle says if it had not been for him, everything
would have been lost. He is wonderful for his aofe.
So clever, so steady, and so careful.'

Mrs. Woodall had an intuitive idea that Edith's
depression was somehow connected with Ronald.
She could not have framed her suspicion in words,
but she guessed that there was something not quite
right in the domestic affairs of the young people.
What should please a wife more than praise of her
husband ? So she praised him.

ITe is very good,' said Edith quietly. ' I am glad
my uncle thinks so well of him.'

VOL. III. 40

My dear,' her aunt went on, ' he says that he
could retire tomorrow, and that Ronald would
manage everything better than he does himself.'

Papa will be very glad to come back to England,
and leave the Portino business for Ronald,' remarked
Edith.

And we shall be very sorry to lose you, though, of
course, it will be a great pleasure to us to have your
father here again,' said Mrs. Woodall, kissing Edith
again. ' Now, child, follow my instructions and lie
down. I will not take you to church — I won't,
indeed.'

Edith was obliged to obey the kind old lady's
orders. Nor was she quite sorry, for the morbid
feeling had grown up in her heart that she was better
out of Ronald's sight — that he was happier without
her than in her society. He had been strangely
talkative and excited again on the previous evening,
but absolutely silent as soon as they had retired to their

room. It was evident, too evident, that she was
rapidly losing all hold on his affection. Still she did
not weep over her misfortunes.

She lay all the morning on the sofa, thinking and
scheming. Would it not be better for Ronald if she
were out of the way altogether — if she disappeared
from his existence and left him free ? She was
now only a clog and a hindrance to him. He was so
clever and industrious that he had made himself
indispensable at the Bank, and no longer owed anything
to her. He would be far happier if she were to
be suddenly lost for ever. No doubt old Lord Redbourne
would soon die, and then he could marry the
widow.

It would surely not be a great sin to drop out of
life for the sake of her husband. She could not bear
this existence much longer. She would just disappear,
and no one would suppose that she had
committed suicide. It would be very easy to take a

40—2

little too much laudanum, or something else, which
would send her to sleep so that she should never open
her eyes again. Would it be so dreadfully wicked ?
She thought not. But it was horrible, too, to leave
this beautiful world, and the sunshine and the
flowers and the bright sky, and never to see the blue
waves of the Mediterranean again, nor the white
houses of Portino, nor the vines trailing over the
veranda at home !

Portino ! Ah, he must have loved her there, when
he risked his life for her in the wood at San Bristol
and stood unflinchingly before the Marchese's
pistol. Oh ! for those happy days at Portino, which
were gone never to return ! It would surely be better
to die now, than to continue to live lamenting overjoys
which were past. He could not help it, she
supposed. That woman was too beautiful, too fascinating,
altogether irresistible. How could she compare
with her? Of course Ronald could not avoid his

fate, and must needs admire her more than his pale,
colourless wife. He was not to blame. Why, then,
should he suffer ? She would show that she could
be as generous and noble as Lady Redbourne. She
had not hesitated to risk her fortune in order to save
Ronald from ruin ; surely a wife could do more. A
wife should lay down life itself for the sake of her
husband.

Yes. She would do it. There was a bottle of
laudanum in her dressing-bag, which she had used to
rub her temples when she had attacks of nervous
headache, which now troubled her occasionally.
They sometimes came on suddenly, and the doctor
had advised her to apply this remedy at once when
she felt the pain approaching. The phial was marked
legibly, ' For external use only,' and she thought
that a teaspoonful would be enough. No one would
guess that she had poisoned herself. They would bo
sorry, of course, and Ronald would be very sad for a

while ; but he would soon recover, and perhaps
some day thank her for having left him free to marry
the glorious creature whom he loved, and who loved
him.

Edith rose to her feet, and staggered across the
room. The house was all but deserted. All had
gone to church, except two servants, who were in the
remote recesses of the kitchen. There would never
be a better opportunity for her purpose. Besides, if
it had to be done, the sooner it was done, the better
for all concerned. Life was no such pleasure to her
that she should seek to prolong it even by a day.
She walked as quietly as she could to the foot of the
stairs. Here she was forced to pause, as a sudden
faintness came over her — a sudden sickening feelings
of Utter misery and of utter weakness. Through the
glass door to the garden, which was wide open, came
the hum of bees and the soft perfume of heliotrope.
She could see the bright scarlet geraniums glistening

in the sun, and the young leaves of the horse-chestnut
swaying in the light summer breeze. It was pretty,
and brilliant, and peaceful ! It was sad to leave all
behind, and to be shut up in a box, and sunk into a
dark, damp grave.

A shudder shook her slender frame, and she clasped
the stair-rail convulsively. No ! she would not fail at
the last moment. She would not be a coward. She
was going to death for her husband, whom she loved.
Men, aye, and women too, had gone to death for the
sake of something far more intangible — their country
or their faith ! She would be equally brave in a good
cause.

With an effort she ascended the stairs, and, leaning
against the wall with her outstretched hand to steady
herself, staggered into her own room. The bag was
on the table. She seized it, and dropped down on a
chair. She soon found the leather case, which contained
the fatal drug. She opened it with feverish

haste, and held the bottle up to the light. It was
more than half-full. Surely a very small portion of
this would soon end her own misery, and be to Ronald
the beginning of a new and happier life. God forgive
her if she was wrong ! She was doing it for his sake,
and she prayed in whispers to be pardoned if she was
committing a crime. She took a glass from the
chimney-piece, and poured some of the fluid into it.
One more prayer, and the fatal step would be taken.
She sat down again, and, holding the glass in her
hand, slowly uttered the Lord's Prayer. Then, closing
her eyes, she raised the draught to her lips.

Suddenly she opened them again wide ; a flush of
colour rushed to her white face, and crying; '
God, forgive me ! — I forgot !' she dropped the glass,
which crashed on the floor. Then throwing herself
down on her knees by the bed, she buried her face in
her hands and implored Divine mercy. A stream of
tears burst from her eyes, which had been hot and dry

for so long ; and, in the agony of remorse, she pressed
her hands to her bosom and sobbed aloud.

What a wretch I am !' she said between her sobs.
'To forget the poor little baby — my own unborn child!
Shall I ever be forgiven for wanting to take away its
life as well as my own ? How could I be so wicked
as to forget it, and think only of my own selfish grief,
instead of trying to be a better wife than I have been,
and to become a good mother to the little baby that
is his as well as mine ? Thank God ! I felt its little
heart beat before it was too late !'

For the sake of the unborn mite, she rose from her
knees, and endeavoured to remove the traces of her
agitation. The tears had relieved her, and once more
she breathed as if life were not a burden. Worn outby
the emotions of the morning, she lay down on the
bed, and sank into a more refreshing slumber than
had visited her for many days.

LADY REDBOUKNE AT HOME.

On that sunny Sunday afternoon, Lady Redbourne
was in her boudoir — a bright, pretty Kttle room which
overlooked the long grassy slope of the park, and
afforded a distant view of the blue Solent. Lady
Redbourne was leaning back in a deep cane arm-chair,
idly glancing at a bundle of letters which were opened
on her lap. She was attired in a soft, creamy ' tea-gown
' — a dress which looked as comfortable as it was
pretty. Her ladyship was making up her mind to a
lazy, comfortable afternoon, and when there was a
knock at the door a frown of vexation contracted her
eyebrows.

Come in !^ she said. ' Oh, I am so glad it's you,
dear,' she continued, as Mrs. Hardy stepped into the
room. ' I was so afraid Redbourne had sent for me.
Make yourself comfortable, and let us have a cosy
chat.'

Mrs. Hardy was friend, confidante, and, to some
extent, companion. It was generally believed that as
she was possessed of only very moderate means, Lady
Redbourne paid her a certain or uncertain sum for
the pleasure of her company. The arrangement was
an excellent one for all parties, and his lordship
approved of it highly, openly calling Mrs. Hardy ' a
d — d sensible woman, who would keep Alma out of
mischief.'

What do you think of this, Maud V asked Lady
Redbourne, tossing a note over to her friend.

It was Ronald's brief letter of the previous day.

He is evidently grateful,' remarked Mrs. Hardy,
after reading it.

But it is not very enthusiastic, is it ?'

You do not wish him to be enthusiastic, do you ?
I should think you ought to be glad that he does not
send you an overwrought, compromising sort of letter,
Alma.'

Well,' answered she, ' of course I ought to be
pleased that he is so prudent. But, to tell the truth,
I don't mind a little romance. It is such a relief
after the twaddle and petty scandal one hears from
most of the men.'

So it may be, but it is dangerous, dear. I should
have thought that you would have, been the last
person to indulge in romantic ideas, or let any one
else do so — at any rate about yourself.'

My dear Maud, after all this time you ought really
to know me better. Do you suppose that because I
married Lord Redbourne I have no heart ?'

I know you have a heart, darling,' answered Mrs.
Hardy, rising and kissing her friend, ' or you would

not have done so much for me and others. But, you
know, a good heart does not imply that you should
give a young man nearly half your fortune, nor that
you should indulge in romantic dreams about it.'

I suppose you think it was very foolish to help
young Lascelles ? You are always such a wise,
judicious creature. Don't mind telling me — I shall
not be offended.'

Well, dear answered Mrs. Hardy, ' it was a very
singular step to take. I do not know any one else
who would have done it '

Of course not !' exclaimed Lady Melbourne. * That
is a platitude ; forgive my saying so. No one cared
about him enough to do it ; and if they had cared,
they could not have done it. I suppose you would
say it was my duty, as a good and faithful wife, to
stand by and see them all ruined ?'

I will not pretend to say that, dear. But, frankly,
do you think Lord Redbourne would have approved ?'

Certainly not, so I did not ask him laughed her
ladyship. ' He has nothing to do with my money.
He has plenty of his own, and my contribution
towards the expenses of the household will be paid
just the same.'

Still, do sou not think, dear Alma, that a woman
ought in all such cases to consult her husband and
do as he wishes ?' observed Mrs. Hardy, sticking to
her point.

My dear Maud, there ought really to be no more
of this nonsense between you and me. What sort of
a husband do you think I am possessed of? Is he
gentle, kind, affectionate, handsome, and young ?'

But you knew that he was not young nor handsome
when you married him. You chose to accept
him, and to swear to love, honour, and obey him !'

Maud, when I married him I did it to please my
mother. She is quite happy now in Washington
Square and Newport, talking of her daughter, the

Countess of Redbourne. It's no use telling her that
people don't use their titles in full. She will call me
the Countess as long as she is at home : I will do
her the justice to say that when she comes to us she
generally drops it.'

Mrs. Hardy was not so easily silenced.

You cannot say with truth, dear Alma, that your
mother could have forced you to marry if you had
not consented. You were your own mistress, and
you could have refused him if you had liked.'

So I might, at the expense of a family quarrel.
Life is dull enough as it is, without domestic disagreements.
But, besides, I did not think that it
Avould be so bad as it has turned out added Lady
Redbourne in a lower and sadder tone, as she leant
back in the armchair and sighed. ' You have no idea
what it is, Maud. I have never breathed a word to
anyone.'

Tell me, dear, if it will relieve you at all.'

Lady Redbourne was silent for a few moments. At
last she spoke, very quietly, and without a trace of
the levity which had characterized her previous tone.

I will tell you all, not because I cannot keep it to
myself like some women who must needs chatter
about everything that happens to them at home, but
because I do not want you to have a bad opinion of
me, dear.'

That I should never have !' exclaimed Mrs. Hardy,
laying her hand on Lady Redbourne's taper fingers.

And,' continued she, without noticing the friendly
gesture, ' I really feel that I should be the better for
your advice and help. You are a very good woman,
Maud ; but I am not so very bad.'

I never thought you were, dear ! And I am sure
I am not half so good as you suppose.'

Oh yes, you are. You do your duty, and all that.
You think it horrible for a married woman to have
the least flirtation with anyone. As to flirting with a

married man, that is quite shocking, is it not, dear V
inquired Lady Eedbourne with one of her roguish
smiles.

I cannot say I approve of it.'

Of course not Who does ? But it is so difficult
to do one's duty. Just look at Lord Eedbourne !
You know something of his temper. You have seen
it in public ; but I assure you, dear, in private it is
positively awful 1 Do you know that the old man has
actually struck me ?'

How dreadful !' exclaimed Mrs. Hardy. ' Poor child !'

When I married him, I did not expect that, at any
rate,' continued Lady Redbourne. ' And that is only
one example. I cannot tell you everything, Maud
dear ; but you will believe me when I say that it is
dreadful to have to live with him. I tried to bear it
all with patience — I really did. But I think many
women would have run away. I have often been
tempted to do so.'

VOL. III. 41

Poor child !' said Mrs. Hardy again, kneeling
down by Lady Redbourne's clair, and clasping her
arms round her neck.

'But I gradually found out that he did not care
what I did, so long as there was no scandal ; and I
could take the head of the table, and receive people,
and not interfere with his tastes — very peculiar tastes,
I assure you ! The more I tried to be a good wife to
him, the more I was abused and bullied. The best
plan was to leave him alone, and go my way, and let
him go his. So I have enjoyed myself pretty well
last season and this. But, you know, it gets tiresome
after a time !'

Of course,' assented Mrs. Hardy.

And when I met Mr. Lascelles the other evening,
all the memories of old times came back with a
rush — the times when I was an innocent girl, though
I may have enjoyed a slight flirtation occasionally !
And I was so glad to see him — so very glad !'

Are you very fond of him, dear ?' asked Mrs.
Hardy, leaning her cheek caressingly against Lady
Melbourne's, and pressing her hands.

I hardly know,' replied she. ' I like him better,
far better, than anyone else I have ever met. He is so
nice and simple and straightforward. There is no
nonsense about him. I would have married him three
years ago, if mamma had not prevented it. I know
he was only waiting for an opportunity to propose.'

He had nothing at all then, had he ?'

'Nothing — no position at all. He was a clerk or
something in the Civil Service. Mamma said it was
ridiculous.'

But surely you had enough for both !' exclaimed
Mrs. Hardy. ' You might have married him if you
had been firm about it.'

Perhaps so, dear ! I only wish I had. But you
see he had not even asked me ; and how could I be
firm about marrying a man who had not said he

41—2

wanted me ? And as soon as mamma saw that he
was paying me particular attention, she snubbed him
dreadfully, and made me quite rude to him.'

She thought that she was acting for your good,'
said Mrs. Hardy.

Certainly ; and no doubt she did what most
sensible women would do. She said that I was not
to be a prey to a fortune-hunter,' however nice-looking
and pleasant he might be.'

She was quite right in that opinion.'

Certainly. But poor Ronald was not a fortune-hunter
— and — do you know, Maud dear,' she added,
kissing her friend and pressing her hand, ' I should
not have minded if he had been one, so long as he
loved me.'

Poor, poor Alma !' repeated Mrs. Hardy, stroking
Lady Redbourne's dark tresses.

Now, what do you think V asked she, after a long
pause. ' Do you think I was wrong to help him ?'

Indeed not,' answered Mrs. Hardy. * But how *
will it end ?'

I wish I knew !' cried Lady Melbourne. ' How,
indeed ! The poor fellow married for money, after
all'

'■ Are you sure of that, Alma V

Quite,' replied Lady Redbourne calmly. ' Look at
me, dear.' She stood up and glanced into the mirror.
Then she turned round to her friend, with one hand
slightly raised as if to command attention, showing
the graceful curve of her arm, the white wrist and
taper fingers. ' Do you think a man who was really
fond of me could ever be in love with that little fair
woman ?'

There was a smile on the full, red lips as she spoke.
Her pearly teeth were just visible between them asher
dark eyes challenged Mrs. Hardy's reply.

I don't think it likely,' was the answer to the
conscious beauty. ' But, dear Alma, is it right

to be so proud of your good looks and lovely
figure ?'

Why not ? They are gifts of Heaven,' said Lady
Melbourne, walking to the open window.

But not to do mischief!'

'I have done no harm. Was it mischief to save
Mr. Lascelles's bank from ruin V

Certainly not. I must admit that it was praiseworthy
— almost noble. Only what will you do
next V

Nothing. What should I do ?'

I fear things cannot remain as they are, Alma
dear. You are very handsome, as you know, and
fond of this young man ; he has every reason to be
fond of you. It is dreadful !'

I do not see anything very dreadful in it,' replied
Lady Redbourne. ' We have only met once, and I
don't suppose I shall see him very often.'

Indeed, I hope not,' said Mrs. Hardy, devoutly.

It is far better for both of you that you should not
see each other again.'

I suppose it is answered Lady Melbourne, looking
absently out on the park. 'But he is the only
man I ever cared that about !'

She turned round quickly to her friend and snapped
her fingers.

You must resist that feeling. You must choke it
down, and forget all about him said Maud, approaching
her, and placing an arm affectionately round her
friend's waist.

I know I ought.' Lady Redbourne's proud head
was bowed down on Maud's shoulder. ' But it is so
hard, so very hard ! I am rich, and I am young and
beautiful, and I know it ; and I am tied to this ill-tempered,
wicked old man, and I must not love anyone,
and must go on hearing all sorts of compliments,
and seeing people love each other, and marry and be
happy together, and all the time I am to have no one

to love me, to have no dear husband, no happiness —
no nothing. Oh ! Maud, Maud, you don't know how
hard it is to bear !' And Lady Redbourne burst into
tears, and hid her face in her friend's bosom. ' I
don't care for parties and dinners and dancing,*
sobbed Lady Redbourne, in disjointed sentences ; * I
don't want diamonds and carriages. I want some one
to love, and some one to love me, really and truly. I
hate going to races, and having those horrid men,
with their silly ways, hanging about me. Oh, Maud I
I love him so dearly ! Help me, Maud ! — help me ! '
she cried piteously, like the spoiled child that she
was.

Mrs. Hardy made Lady Redbourne lie down on the
sofa, and soothed her as well as she could. But she
would not allow her to indulge too long in her grief.

You must not cry for the moon, dear,' she said
as sternly as she could. ' You will have to do without
it.'

Ronald's revenge.

The next two days in the City were full of unquiet
rumours. There was a general feeling of uneasiness ,
which found expression in what is termed ' flatness
The high prices of many new speculative shares gave
way. On the Tuesday there was a strong tendency to
sell. Some of the less adventurous took fright, and
at noon the failure of two firms was announced. The
firms were neither large nor important, but they had
been considered solvent and successful. The news
from other places was not encouraging, and cautious
people began to fear that there might be a general
collapse. Woodalls' engagements had been reduced

to absolute insignificance by the events of the past
week, following on the caution which the London
partners had exercised for some time, so that Ronald
had ample time to look about him, pay visits, and
make inquiries.

No one could give any better reasons for the
sudden cessation of business than the excess of speculation
which had been indulged in for so long, and
the consequent over-production in various branches
of manufacture. Iron fell rapidly in price, and offers
of every description of goods came from the manufacturing
districts. Though the depression might not
injure the Bank, beyond delaying its making profits,
Mr. VVoodall and Ronald could not but be anxious,
hind the latter found no opportunity for that mental
rest which he so urgently required. He was
very anxious to repay Lady Redbourne her advance ;
but, as the week went on, he was obliged to admit
that affairs did not justify precipitate action. The

resources of the richest were strained, and the anxiety
of the most solvent was severe.

The senior partner asserted with some show of
reason, that her ladyship did not expect to receive
her money back within six days, and that she would
be far better pleased that it should be kept in reserve
to strengthen the Bank, than withdrawn at such a
moment so as again to imperil its stability.

Ronald felt that he would not have a quiet night's
rest until the whole was repaid with interest, and
knew that even then the firm's obligations to their
patroness would only be legally, not morally, discharged.
But he did not dare to urge on Mr. Woodall
<a step which might prove dangerous, and would certainly
at this moment be most inconvenient.

As it was, both had to keep their heads as cool as
possible, for things grew rapidly worse instead of
better. The requests for advances on various securities
became incessant; and though many of such

requests came from old friends and customers, Konald
persuaded Mr. Woodall to refuse the great majority.
Shares, which on the previous Friday had been sale -
able at fourteen or fifteen pounds, were down to seven
on Wednesday, and to five on Thursday; nor were buyers
plentiful even at the reduced prices. Woodall's
had not for months past held any large amount
of such stock, and what they had held had of course
been sold during the run of the past week. The
advances they had previously made — sparingly indeed
in comparison to some of their neighbours, but
still to some extent — had all been called in as far as
possible. Now everybody was begging for fresh
loans. Chios wines, on which Ronald had refused to
lend, went down rapidly, like other speculative companies
he had avoided. On Thursday afternoon these
very shares were offered at fifteen shillings each.

A bad time had come, and all about Lombard Street
and Throgmorton Street men were running hither

and thither with pale faces and anxious looks. There
were no groups of smart stockbrokers with flowers in
their coats, and smug jobbers with shiny hats, standing
about on the asphalte, smoking and jovially
chatting over politics and scandal. Everybody was
trying to get money out of everyone else ; and when
the Bank directors met, and again raised the rate of
discount, the operation appeared more difficult than
ever.

Even members of the oldest and most careful firms
looked worried and harassed. It was hard to close
one's ears and pockets against the appeals which were
made to Mr. Woodall and Ronald ; but the latter,
remembering the rebuffs of the previous week, and
mindful of the narrow escape of the Bank, was firm as
an old stager. It was trying work, and more than
once he felt as if he would have broken down there
and then.

Mr. Lascelles !' cried one, ' here is excellent paper !

Last week I could have done it at three per cent. I
will give you ten if you will discount it.'

Look here, sir,' said another, ' I have a fine business
— a business which has paid well. I have worked
it up from nothing. You are young, and you were
born with a silver spoon, and you do not know what
it is to slave day and night, as I have slaved for
fifteen years, to make a prosperous thing of it. I
have a wife at home, and three fine boys. . I hoped to
bring them into the City and leave them all rich
when I am gone. Now I shall have to put up the
shutters if I can't sell these shares. They were worth
fifty thousand last Tuesday. Take them, and give
me six thousand — for God's sake, take them ! You
will never be sorry for it !'

These gentlemen pushed their way into the inner
room. There was no stopping them by crying
that ' Mr. Woodall and Mr. Lascelles were engaged !'
One after another, sometimes two at a time, they

elbowed themselves past doorkeepers and clerks,
insisting that they rust see one of the partners ; that
there was not a moment to lose. Nor was there, for
them.

It was easy enough to refuse the applications of
strangers, who on this day walked in and impudently
asked for favours which their own bankers had
refused ; but it was difficult to get rid of persons
who had trusted in the Bank, and confided in the
Bank, for years. Mr. Woodall was less affected than
Ronald. He had the courage to reply to very many
that they had withdrawn their money last week, fearing
that the Bank would fail, and therefore had no right
to expect assistance to-day. Though the younger
man did not feel equal to giving the same obvious
reply, he was quite as determined, if not more so
than Mr. Woodall himself; but he couched his
refusals more courteously, and avoided telling people
that ' it served them right.' His feelings, too.

were less blunted, and every refusal was to him a
struggle.

When at last the rush ceased with the stroke of
four o'clock, the two consulted as to the firms whom
they would be justified in helping. There were
several whom it would be wise and prudent to assist
in every possible way ; and at the hour when Eonald,
exhausted as he was, ouo^ht to have prone home, both
he and Mr. Woodall were calling on some of their
customers to place various credits at their disposal.
It was at the office of one of the most respected of
these that the chief partner, after the conclusion of
business, remarked :

By-the-bye, Mr. Woodall, your family is connected
with the Tents, is it not?'

By marriage only,' replied Mr. Woodall. ' The
sister of my partner, Lascelles, has married a Stent.
That is all. Why do you ask ?'

Oh ! they say Stent Brothers are in a very bad

way,' answered the merchant. ' Atkinson are in a
great state, for they hold some of their paper.'

Indeed !' said Mr. Woodall, pulling a long face,
though inwardly rejoicing. * I am sorry to hear it.

It does not affect you, I hope ?' asked the friend
with genuine concern.

'Not at all,' answered the banker. * Stent and
Cowcroft, and Stent Brothers, and the whole kit of
them, withdrew their account some time ago. Good-evening.'


Stent Brothers in a bad way 1 It was no more
than Mr. Woodall expected ; but still it caused him a
shock. Justice had indeed swiftly overtaken them !
Only twelve days had passed since they had spread
the reports which had nearly brought the Bank to
ruin, and now they themselves were trembling on the
verge of the abyss !

Gift hurried back to tell Ronald, whom he still
found at the Bank, though the hour was late. The
VOL. III. 42

old gentleman's face beamed as lie announced the
news.

'I don't often rejoice over people smashing said
he. ' In fact, I don't think I ever was pleased about
such a thing before. But, by Jove ! I shall be glad if
they go r

For a moment Ronald shared his joy. But only
for a moment. Better feelings returned at once, and
he thought of his sister. Poor thing ! Clara did not
know much of business, and her only article of faith
was implicit belief in the stability of the Stent clan.
What a blow it would be to her !

Well ; what do you say to this, my boy ?' asked
Mr. Woodall, surprised at Ronald's silence.

I was thinking of my poor sister, sir he answered
simply.

Your sister ? Egad ! I forgot her — poor girl !
Sad thing for her, of course. But she did not help us
last week. On the contrary, it was her husband who

first set the ball rolling. He would have ruined us if
he had been able. At any rate he tried his worst —
the blackguard !'

It was not her fault. She knows nothing at all of
business.'

Of course not ; hardly any woman does assented
Mr. Woodall. ' But she has got a rascal for a
husband, and she must make the best of it.'

It will be a sad blow to my father Ronald went
on. ' He had such a high opinion of George Stent !'

Aye, aye ! He was mistaken ; like a good many
of us. Well, good-night, Ronald ; it's high time to
be off home. We've got everything pretty straight
for tomorrow, in case things should get worse.'

Ronald walked home more sadly and meditatively
than ever. There was no reason whatever to conceal
from Edith the cause of his increased distress. She
knew of the troubles in the City, as did everyone
who read the papers. It would not harm her, he

42—2

thought, to tell her of the Tents' danger. She had
seemed to be in rather better spirits since their
return from Wimbledon, though she had not appeared
at lunch on Sunday, and looked very ill in
the evening.

When he had told his news, which was not till
after dinner, Edith said, after a few minutes' thought :

Ronald, could you not help them ?'

His face brightened, and he kissed her. She did
not expect a caress, and it surprised her.

Dear child !' he said, ' I have been thinking the
same thing ever since I heard. If I only saw my
way ! How glad I am you would wish it also !'

Is it difficult ?' she asked.

Very,' he replied. ' In the first place, we don't
know what they want. Perhaps we could do no
good, and only hurt ourselves. Secondly, I don't
think I could get Mr. Woodall to consent: he feels
very strongly about it.'

I'm not surprised remarked Edith. * But George
has behaved even worse to you than to him.'

But George's wife is my sister,' answered Ronald.
I hate the beast most cordially ; no one could hate
him more than I do he continued, clenching his fist
as he spoke. 'I should like to kick him now, the
nasty, miserable sneak. But don't you think it
would serve him out thoroughly to help him ?
Fancy the beggar's face when he hears it ! It will
be as good as a play ! Lord ! I must try it, if I
can

That's right, Ronald,' exclaimed Edith. ' I am
sure you can, if you will '

It is not easy answered he. ' I must see what I
can do in the morning.'

It was certainly not easy. The morning of
Black Friday ^ will not soon be forgotten in the
City.

The first thing that Ronald heard was that

Wendovers' had stopped payment : and half an hour
later, the old and respected Ispahan Bank followed
the great financial firm's ' sad example. Things were
in a terrible state ; and for an hour he had not a
chance of speaking to Mr. Woodall on the subject
about which he was so anxious.

When at last he said his say, the senior partner
looked at him as if he doubted the young man's
sanity.

Ronald repeated his request with firmness, and
pointed out that they had a very large reserve,
increased beyond all possible requirements by Lady
Redbourne's money, of which no better use could be
made than to save a firm from ruin.

But they won't be able to give you any security,'
said Mr. Woodall.

If they can't, of course I won't lend,' answered
Roland. ' But I think I can get a quantity of shares,
which may be worth very little to-day, but are sure

to rise. And I'd ask for Stent and Cowcroft's
guarantee.'

But you're a perfect idiot to do such a thing for a
blackguard who tried to ruin us ?

Never mind, Mr. Woodall ; so long as it does not
hurt the Bank. Besides, think what a pull it will
give you ! You will be able to chaff the Tents out of
their lives.'

So we shall, to be sure exclaimed Mr. Woodall,
fascinated by the idea. ' I never thought of that. It
will be a tremendous joke ! But, mind ! the security
must be A 1 . ; and we must not go a bit further
than we would for anybody else.'

I understand all that,' answered Ronald, delighted.

Off he went to the old friends on whom Mr.
Woodall had called the evening before. They
admitted him at once.

Mr. Trant,' said Ronald, ' do you know anything
about Stent Brothers ?'

I'm sorry to say I do,' replied he. ' They'll shut
up before the day's over. They have no end of
Wendovers' paper

We should Hke to help them, it possible,' continued
Konald ; ' but there has been a little coolness
between us.'

Of course ! I recollect. Why, I'm told they
spread all sorts of reports about you a fortnight
ago.'

'They were mistaken, at any rate,' said Ronald,
with a proud smile.

Yery much so. The old Bank is as strong as ever,
ands he added, ' as generous.'

Well, Mr. Trant, would you mind going round to
George Stent's, just to say that if he will come into
our place, we will see what we can do for him ? I
cannot go myself, under the circumstances.'

Certainly, I will go !' exclaimed Mr. Trant, seizing
his hat. ' Mr. Lascelles, you're a fine fellow. Most of

US would have been pleased to see an enemy smash !
Tell Mr. Woodall, with my compliments, that I
respect him more than ever. Shake hands before I
go, Mr. Lascelles. You're the right sort, and no
mistake.'

IN Moro VERITAS.

When George Stent heard Mr. Trant's announcement
he scarcely believed his ears. And when there could
be no doubt that the embassy was really a genuine
one, he immediately began to wonder what Woodalls
were driving at. His suspicion made him even more
cautious than usual. Of course he was very glad to
be helped.

Mr. Trant had found Stent senior in his son's room,
and the old gentleman's joy was far more demonstrative,
as indeed it was more real, than that of George.
The latter at once suspected that it was a ' dodge ' of
Ronald's to put his firm into the power of the Bank.

He asked Mr. Trant whether any terms had been
mentioned ; and, receiving an answer in the negative,
said:

'My father and I will go round at once. But it
will not be any use. I'd sooner shut up shop
than throw myself on Woodalls' mercy. And
I know they will try to screw us in every possible
ways

Mr. Trant retired in disgust. He had said what he
had to say, and was glad to get out of Stent Brothers'
office. That Ronald's overtures should have been
received in so cold and suspicious a manner fully confirmed
the belief the merchant had entertained
before, that the run on Woodalls' had been entirely
caused by the Tents.

But the latter, knowing that to decline the offer
meant ruin, appeared at the Bank within a quarter of
an hour.

Ronald directed them to be shown into the parlour,

and before father and son had a chance of expressing
surprise, pleasure, or any other feeling, at once asked
George Stent how much he wanted.

The amount was mentioned. It was quite within
the Bank's means.

Now what security can you give V inquired
Ronald, sharply.

George replied, giving a long list of depreciated
shares.

His brother-in-law made him repeat the names
slowly, and took them down on paper. Then there
was silence for a few minutes.

We cannot take any of Wendovers' companies,'
said Ronald at last. ' They are all bad. You may
think otherwise, so you had better keep them. As
to the Ispahan Bank, where you had five thousand at
call, we will take that as worth something — at least
ten shillings in the pound. Lahore are fair ; and
Northern Japanese may recover. We can advance

something on them ; but, to make up the amount you
require, we want some collateral security.'

Then Mr. Stent senior spoke up, and offered Stent
and Cowcroft's bills at three, six, and nine months.
And in five minutes the matter was settled.

Send the documents at once, Mr. Stent,' said Mr.
Woodall, ' and your cheque shall be honoured as soon
as ever the papers have been verified.'

George was unbounded. There had not even
been a suggestion of extortionate terms, nor of
putting the screw on.' The conditions were quite as
liberal as could have been expected in piping times of
peace, and such as scarcely any bank would at this
period of crisis have granted to its oldest customers.
But his petty brain was still seeking for some hidden
motive. It worked slowly, and he was unable to
utter even a few words of ordinary thanks. His
father, who had always been much the sharper of the
two, said :

Mr. Woodall and Mr. Lascelles, I do not know
how I can thank you sufficiently on my son's behalf
and on my own.'

That will do, Mr. Stent,' said the banker, standing
up and opening the door. * Send those papers round
sharp ; we want no thanks. But,' he added, as the
two passed out, 'perhaps you will think better in
future of Woodalls' Bank.'

When the door closed, Ronald threw himself back
in his chair and indulged in successive peals of
laughter.

George's face was a study,' he said. ' That chap
can't make it out yet. He is trying to understand it,
and he cannot. He still thinks we mean mischief
It does me good to see him groping about, and not
knowing whether to laugh or to cry.' And he
laughed again.

Mr. Woodall was a little alarmed. Ronald's
laughter was not quite natural. He had been more

acute than ever that morning, and even more calm
than usual while discussing matters with the Tents.
Now he seemed excited, and not quite himself. Ho
could not settle down to anything.

And during the day it grew worse. The figures in
the books danced before his eyes, and he added up
the same column over and over again and found a
different result each time. He was unable to take
any lunch ; and as the afternoon wore on his head
began to ache violently. But on such a day as this
he would not leave the Bank, nor confess himself
beaten. Scarcely half an hour passed without fresh
news of some failure, and every successive telegram
entailed replies : more letters, and more work.

Almost blind, and with throbbing temples, he
plodded on, till even Mr. Woodall, preoccupied
though he was, could not help being struck with his
wretched appearance.

You are tired, Ronald,' said he. ' Go home at

once. It is past five, and the neck of the work is
broken. I will see that the letters go off all right.'

But Ronald would not stir. There were still some
important matters to communicate to their Italian
agencies and to their Northern friends. Mr. Woodall
could do the latter ; but Ronald knew more of the
former business, and the letters had to be written in
Italian. It is true that there was a good Italian correspondent
in the Bank ; the letters could be short-handed
in English and then translated by him into
Italian, as was the custom before Ronald joined the
firm. But this would entail great loss of time, and
they might lose the mail ; besides, there was no one
sufficiently cognizant of the language to read through
the letters and estimate every word at its proper
value.

So, making a strenuous effort to overcome his
exhaustion, Ronald determined to remain and write
these letters. He ordered some strong tea to be

brought, and soaked towels in iced water, which he
applied to his head. Till the clock struck half-past
seven, he wrote on, throwing the sheets on the floor
as fast as he finished them. The clerks picked them
up, copied them, and placed them ready in the
envelopes. When the last Alas completed, he called
the Italian clerk, and made him read all the letters
aloud to him — for he could no longer see at all, and
it was vain to endeavour to read them himself. In
ten minutes they were corrected, approved, sealed up,
and stamped with the extra postage required.

Now, Tito, give me my hat. We can do it easily.
It will not take five minutes to get round to Cannon
Street.'

He tore the towel from his forehead ; and clutching
Tito's arm— for if unsupported he would have fallen
down — he ran off to the railway station, unheeding
the clerk's entreaties to let him post the letters. He
repeated as he walked ' If you want a thing done, do

VOL. in. 43

it yourself and suddenly stopped at the corner of
Clement's Lane. He struck this forehead with his
hand and said, ' By Jove ! I have forgotten her
cheque !'

Whose cheque V asked Tito, surprised.

Ronald stared at him.

Oh, you don't know. It's a cheque for a hundred
and twenty thousand. It ought to have gone off today.
I had better go back and send it.'

And he turned slowly up the lane towards the
Bank.

'We shall miss the mail, sir,' remarked Tito. 'These
are all letters to the Italian agencies.'

'Ah, to be sure !' exclaimed Eonald. ' Let us get
on, then.'

This way,' said Tito, leading his principal, who had
tried to turn down King William Street towards the
bridge.

If it had not been for the clerk, Ronald would have

been run over long before they reached the station.
He would walk on swiftly for a few strides, and then
stop suddenly, looking round, and apparently tr3dng
to collect his thoughts. Once or twice he said, raising
his hand to his forehead :

My head ! — my head !'

They reached the station just in time. Tito saw
the letters safely into the mail van, while Ronald stood
by, taking no apparent interest in the matter which
had so deeply concerned him but half an hour ago.

When they left the station, Tito hailed a cab, and
determined on taking his chief home. The young
man saw that Ronald could not be trusted by himself.

When the door was opened, Edith's anxious face
was seen in the passage. The clerk brought Ronald
in, and addressing Edith, whom he had known well in
her father's house at Portino, explained that the Signer
Cavaliers was overworked and tired out, and that he
thought he should retire to rest immediately. He

43—2

offered to do anything that was required. Meanwhile
Ronald was leaning against the wall, staring vacantly
with bloodshot eyes. His hat was pushed to the back
of his head, and he did not appear to know where he
was.

Where is she ?' he asked at last.

Here I am, dear,' said Edith, taking his hand.
You are tired out. Come upstairs.'

Send for her at once,' he went on, taking no notice
of his wife.

For whom are we to send, signore V asked Tito,
anxious to soothe him, and thinking he might bespeaking
of his sister Clara.

Ronald glanced at him sharply.

Oh, you don't know, of course. Just go and
fetch her. But you will not be able to find her. She
will not come ! No, no, I must go myself And he
made for the door.

Tito and Edith held him back.

Let me go, I say !' he cried, trying to shake
them off. ' I must try and find Alma immediately.
She has been waiting for me so long — oh,
so long !'

All were alarmed ; but to Edith's alarm was added
the sickening knowledge that the dreadful truth was
being made manifest, now that Konald's overstrained
reason no longer controlled his words.

With the help of the servants, he was taken
upstairs to his room, and cold water was applied to
his head, while Tito drove off in search of the doctor.
It seemed to be hours before the medical man at last
appeared, and meanwhile Konald had more than
once struggled to get away, declaring that Alma was
waiting for him. Sometimes he said he must go to
Richmond ; at others, that they expected him at the
Bank, to sign a cheque for a hundred and twenty
thousand. Then again he looked at Edith, and
cried :

You are too good to me. Send me away. I
cannot help it. I don't deserve it.'

The doctor applied various remedies, and pronounced
the complaint to be incipient brain fever,
brought on by mental anxiety and overwork.

For several days the sick man's condition was
serious ; and in his delirium he raved often of Alma,
and strove to rise from his bed to fly to her.

In Edith's delicate condition the care of her
husband was a task almost beyond her strength. For,
in addition to the terrible anxiety on his behalf, she
had to suffer tortures when she heard his piteous,
incoherent cries for the woman he loved so much
better than herself. But, with faith and a strong
sense of duty, the weakest woman can do wonders.

Edith would not allow Mrs. Edward Woodall, who
at once came up from Wimbledon, to take her place
by Ronald's couch. She engaged a capable sick
nurse, rightly thinking that he would be better taken

care of by two people relieving each other than by
herself alone. But Mrs. Woodall was not allowed to
hear his ravings ; nor would she admit Clara — Clara
less than any one ; for Ronald often spoke of George
Stent, and laughed a dreadful laugh when his
wandering uncurbed thoughts turned to the City man
and his clan.

Mrs. Woodall suggested that Mrs. Lascelles should
be summoned from Portino; but Edith refused, on
the score of her age, which would make so long a
journey a serious undertaking. In reality, she feared
that her mother might hear his rhapsodies about
Lady Redbourne, and his too frequent regrets at his
having married the woman he did not care for.

I must bear my cross alone,' she said to herself.
'Better that Ronald's mother should still entertain
the belief that she has done the best for him, than
that she should find out, now it is too late, what a
terrible mistake she has made. If he should die, I

must bear the blame for not having summoned
her : it would be too dreadful if she heard all
this, and her declining years would be made
too sorrowful.'

The danger, however, was never very great after
the first twenty-four hours, and in a week all delirium
had ceased, and the fever subsided rapidly. Incessant
application of ice, and all the appliances science
could devise and loving care suggest, were brought
into use, and not in vain. Soon Ronald was convalescent
; very weak, very liable to headaches, but
still rapidly improving.

Of course he could not know what he had said in
his feverish wanderings, but he had some consciousness
of the direction his delirium had taken. He
often asked Edith what he had talked about ; but she
only replied :

A lot of nonsense, Ronald dear. Don't worry.'

His wife's evasions convinced him that his inmost

heart had been laid bare to her, and that, probably,
the visions of his illness had gone much further, and
had hurt her much more, than a sober explanation of
his real feelings would have done.

The doctors unanimously declared that he must
not resume work for several months, and now it was
only July. After much silent cogitation, and a
private talk with Mr. Woodall, he said to Edith, one
afternoon :

Edith dear, let us go to Eastbourne till — a certain
event comes off. It is a nice, pleasant place, and
does not get so awfully empty and dull after
September, like most of the seaside towns. And
then, when you are quite well again, and I shall be
quite fit to work also, we will all ilfiree go off for good
to Portino.'

There was an emphasis on the word ' three ' which
made Edith blush ; but the suggestion was a
delightful one. Thus they would get away altogether

from the dangerous proximity of that fascinating
woman.

And they carried out the plan exactly as Ronald
had proposed.

AN UNEXPECTED Visitor.

Five years had slipped away since Ronald and Edith
had moved to Portino. Slipped away — for they were
uneventful years, and the time had but few landmarks.
Two children were born to them, and the
little beings waxed fat and chubby. Mr. Charles
Woodall was settled near Heath Lodge, and his son
had entered on his apprenticeship in Lombard Street.
Mr. Lascelles was getting old, but still conducted Her
Majesty's affairs at Portino. Now that Italy was a
peaceful united monarchy, the work was easy, and
worries were few and far between. Teresina was
engaged to be married to young Donative swarthy,

stalwart youth of prepossessing appearance and
charming manners. The Bank was prospering and
growing with the increasing prosperity of the Italian
kingdom. Affairs in Lombard Street were satisfactory,
and no panic had occurred since the terrible
Friday in 1866. The terrible events in France,
barely over, had not injuriously affected English
trade, and Mr. Charles Woodall had had no cause
for anxiety.

Since the great run, the Bank had steadily gained
in credit and popularity, till it had become one of the
chief private establishments in the City. Lady Redbourne's
loan had long since been repaid with
interest. To the senior partner she was merely a
pleasant memory. Mr. Edward Woodall often talked
of the day when he was trembling on the verge of
bankruptcy, and when a dazzling apparition, brighter
than is often seen east of Temple Bar, saved the old
firm from destruction.

But Ronald had not suffered and struggled in vain.
To him Lady Redbourne was dead and buried. His
love, if love it was, had been put away : no dream of
black eyes and full cherry lips was allowed to disturb
his slumbers ; no memory of the terrace at Richmond
to divert his waking thoughts from his business, his
wife, and his children. He had become a thorough
family man.

If a shadow of what might have been ever crossed
his mind, it was dismissed, as would be the sad ,and
painful recollection of one who had left this life for a
better. Hard work, alternating with harder exercise
and attention to the numerous social duties of his
position, did much to make him contented. He had
every reason, indeed, to be contented with his lot.

Edith was far more in her element at Portino than
she had ever been in London. Her husband was the
acknowledged chief of the English colony, and she
was the queen of English society in the Italian city.

But this regal position did not entail a fraction of the
social work which an ordinary fashionable woman
would have to get through in a London season. She
had plenty of time to attend to her household and
her children, and did not neglect the poorer friends
whom, in her girlish days, she had relieved by her
gifts and delighted by her visits. So Edith, too, had
every reason to be happy.

Logically, these two people ought to have been
the happiest among mortals. Blessed with ample
means and an excellent position, blessed by health
and strength, and, above all, by the good promise of
their children, there was to the observer not a single
shadow over their sunlit life.

Edith was moderate in her desires ; but, had she
been less so, her means would have been sufficient to
gratify even extravagant wishes. Ronald's favourite
outdoor pursuits were sailing and cricket ; and in the
winter he liked to entertain their friends occasionally.

All these things, and many more, were well
within his resources ; and he could also drive the best
horses in Portino, and have his wife's dresses from
Paris, without even approaching the limit of his
annual income.

What more, then, could any two people desire ?
Was not their cup of happiness full to the
brim ?

Yet both were conscious of a blank — a want which
no money, no carriages, no dresses, no social advantages
could fill up. Edith remembered with horror
her temptation on that Sunday at Heath Lodge ; but
the cause of the temptation still existed, buried as it
might be deep in the recesses of her heart. She was
under no illusion. That day, and the many days of
Ronald's illness, when she pieced together those
ravings which to anyone else were but incoherent
nonsense, had destroyed all illusions. She knew that
his love was not hers, and never had been, except

perhaps, as she fondly supposed, for a few weeks in
Sicily. She had nothing of which to complain. As a
husband and a father, Ronald did everything that was
his duty , and much that was beyond his duty. He
never wearied of going about with his wife, of contriving
little surprises for her and the children. Far
from neglecting her, he was, on the contrary, much
more at home than most of the Portino husbands.
All her Italian friends and many of her English ones
envied her this paragon. Ronald did not flirt. He
was attentive and polite to all ladies, and very bright
and amusing with them when he liked ; but there was
never a breath of scandal concerning him during those
five years. If Edith did not possess his heart, it was
certainly not given to anyone else in Portino. She
knew everything he did, nearly everything he wrote,
and could almost guess his very thoughts. But not
quite. For she supposed that he was still acting a
part — that his sense of duty and his natural kindness

made him good and attentive to one to whom he was
bound, but whom he could not love.

As a matter of fact, Ronald was not playing a part
at all, nor were domestic ways against his inclination.
On the contrary, he much preferred the conversation
of his intelligent wife to that of other persons less
clever and not so well educated. He took the greatest
pride and pleasure in his children. He enjoyed
an hour spent in playing with them far more than
the same time devoted to cards at the Casino Nobile.
So he was not a martyr, as Edith sometimes thought
him. He had suffered acutely in the past, but
he had long ago ceased to suffer. She, too, had suffered
; and though she had, like Ronald, made up her
mind to do her duty bravely and hope for the best,
she had not been able to dismiss for ever the hope
that she might, some day, regain that love without
which all her comfort, all her luxuries, even her
children, her whole life, seemed dull and insipid.
VOL. III. 44

What both yearned for in then hearts — he without
acknowledging it even to himself, she with frequent
self-communing — was that spark of love which illumines
the most humble home, and without which the
most glittering palaces must become dull and dreary.
Edith reproached herself with the wickedness of such
aspirations, but they returned nevertheless, and continued
so to assert themselves, that in truth she lived
for one object only — to gain once more her husband's
entire heart, and to renew the Sicilian days which
had been the happiest in her life.

The sun at Portino was bright, the skies were blue,
and the sea sparkled ; and yet it sometimes seemed to
both that their life was devoid of sunshine, and that, if
the love which was wanting had been present, they
would have thought existence in the fogs of London
or the cold mists of Scotland brighter than the sunny
clime where their lot was cast.

Yet surely other people were happy and contented

without that romantic love which these two seemed
to consider necessary for complete bliss ! How few
among the married people they knew adored each
other according to the poetic ideal ! In some cases
the affection was all on one side: the husband
neglected the wife who worshipped him ; or the wife
flirted with other men, while the husband strove in
vain for a kind glance. In others there were constant
domestic bickering and occasional real quarrels. In
others, again, there was mere coldness, and a tacit
understanding that each was to go his or her way. sand
where harmony appeared to prevail — where the husband
was attentive to his wife, and she dutiful and
affectionate towards him — there might be skeletons
hidden from the public gaze, and the love between
them might not, after all, be so perfect as people
supposed. It was unreasonable to expect everything
in this world.

A beneficent Providence had vouchsafed her best

44—2

gifts to them, and yet they were dissatisfied. Ronald
did not show it — did not even think so. He generally
believed himself to be perfectly happy and contented;
and while no one is happy who does not think himself
happy, everyone, whatever his misery and
wretchedness, has only thoroughly to believe in his
own happiness to become an enviable mortal. Only
sometimes there would be a dull pain in Ronald's
heart — a craving which neither his children's caresses
nor his wife's kiss, neither brilliant assemblies nor a
successful innings, neither a fine pair of horses nor a
closely sailed race, would satisfy.

Edith was more truly religious than her husband, and
sought consolation in better and higher things. But
religion, embodied as it was to her in the meek, lowly,
and insignificant English chaplain at Portino, failed to
fill up the void, or to convince her heart that she had
nothing more to desire, and that she was sinful in
trying to obtain her husband's love.

Teresina's marriage was to take place immediately
after Easter. It was now the end of February. The
George Tents were to come to Portino on the occasion
; for Clara had not seen her mother for some
years, and this was considered a capital opportunity.
Stent Brothers had been more successful than before
the crisis ; for George had learned a lesson, and his
father had secured for him the co-operation of a
clever manager, whose acuteness often detected what
George's density would have omitted to notice. It
was therefore arranged that he should take six weeks'
holiday, and accompany his wife to Portino, whence he
might make excursions into other parts of Italy while
she spent some quiet days with her father and mother.

There were now several young George Tents, but the
clan would take care of them during their parents'
absence. They all took after their father, and would be
quite as much at home with the William Tents or the
William H. Tents as in their own nursery in Dorchester

Terrace. The family had had of course no recent
opportunity of pressing their hospitalities on Ronald
and Edith. The latter was spoken of with respect,
and by the old gentleman with real gratitude. But
George still privately stuck to his opinion — that there
was something behind it, and that Ronald would yet
turn out a very undesirable connection.

It was just such a day as when this story opened,
seven years before. The tramontana was blowing ;
the waves were all topped with white caps. The
sky was blue and hard as steel; the dust was
whirling about, and the natives were hurrying along,
holding their hats on their heads with one hand, while
the other coiled the corner of their long cloaks over
their mouth.

Ronald was in his office at the Palazzo Woodall.
The ground floor of this ancient palace had been converted
into the Bank premises, and modern improvements
made the low vaulted rooms comfortable

enough. The entrance to the private house was from
the Via Marina, and the attention of the clerks was
not diverted by the visitors who, on a certain day in
every week, drove up to the "porte cocker e to call on
Mrs. Ronald Lascelles.

On this Wednesday the callers were not very
numerous, the wind being so keen and cutting that
the chilly Italian ladies were glad to stop at home.
But at the Palazzo Woodall those who had the
courage to face the tramontana found warmth and
comfort. To-day Edith received her friends in a room
far more home-like than the huge salon where no
amount of fire was sufficient to thaw the cold
grandeur. The boudoir was carpeted all over ; heavy
curtains excluded the draughts, and there was a real
coal fire in a grate framed in by bright tiles. Soft
sofas and seductive low easy-chairs from Paris had
replaced the straight-backed, old-fashioned furniture
of a generation which preferred grandeur to comfort.

Mrs. Lascelles was knitting in a corner near the
fireplace ; Signora Donati was telling Edith of her
future plans for her son, and discussing Tiresias's
trousseau — a subject almost inexhaustible. For
Ronald had undertaken the whole expense of supplying
his sister with all those useful and ornamental
articles of dress which are absolutely necessary
for a young lady who is about to start in married
life. He told Edith to order what she thought proper,
and to bring him the bill.

At first the catalogue had been a very modest one ;
but when Ronald was told of the amount required to
complete it, he exclaimed that Teresina must be
better supplied, and insisted on the number of dresses
being doubled, and the quality of the materials being
the best that could be obtained.

Edith was nothing loth, and the bride's future
mother-in-law, whose homely heart was more easily
touched by the old-fashioned luxuries of fine linen and

lace than by the modern taste for English horses and
smart equipages, was delighted to be consulted in the
matter.

Signora Donati had much native sharpness, but
was gentle and kind withal. No Parisian modiste
should get the better of her, nor take advantage of
Ronald's generosity. There should be money's worth for
the money. No spurious modern manufacture should
be palmed off as old point de Venise. La Donations eyes
were too keen to be deceived by ingenious stains
as if of age. She could distinguish between the work
of time and that of coffee-dregs. Nor did the French
chatter of the fashionable milliner persuade her to
buy what she thought unnecessary, or to believe in the
fineness of linen which her delicate touch told her to
be in truth of inferior texture. Wherefore the two
ladies were very deep in consultation, and both much
interested.

Occasionally Mrs. Lascelles threw in a word. Her

function was rather to act as a draof on Edith's and
Ronald's lavish inclinations, than to advise in matters
in which she admitted herself far less experienced
than her Italian friend. If a male visitor had been
announced, at least two out of the three ladies would
have been quite sorry that the very interesting conference
should be broken up. But they did not expect
any gentlemen, not, at least, till late in the afternoon.
And as to the ladies who might call, why the subject
in hand could not fail to be almost as attractive to
them as to the persons more nearly concerned. For
what woman exists, except a Girton girl, who is not
fond of purple and fine linen ?

Suddenly a hand pushed back the heavy portiere
and the footman stepped in. Holding the curtain
back, he announced :

Milady Reckon ! La Signora Hardy !'
Mrs. Lascelles looked up from her knitting,
astonished at hearing two names she had never heard

before. Edith became very pale, and rose from her
seat. The surprise sent all the blood rushing to her
head, and seemed to leave her powerless. Signora
Donati turned her eyes towards the door, and exclaimed
under her breath, as Lady Redbourne swept
in with a graceful bow :

Santissima Verging, che hellezzaP

FORGIVE AND FORGET.

A HAWK had swept down on the dovecote, and the
inmates were all fluttering. For a moment Edith was
too amazed to speak, or even to make a sign. Lady
Redbourne stood amongst the innocent babblers, a
creature instinct with warmth and life. The glow
of the fire was reflected from her face, and gave it
more colour than usual. Her red lips were parted in
that bewitching smile she could use so well ; her
graceful head, scarcely covered by the tiny bonnet of
that period, was turned towards Edith in an attitude
of courteous expectancy. She was dressed in black
velvet, trimmed with sable ; rich, almost bright in the

soft folds which caught the daylight and the firelight.


The impression was imposing, yet full of fascination;
almost magnificent, yet magnetic in its attractiveness.
Behind her was the bright little sympathetic figure of
Maud Hardy, who gazed round curiously, and appeared
to wonder that her beautiful friend and mistress was
not at once made welcome.

If Edith had been a low-bred and vulgar woman of
coarse ideas, her thoughts would probably have shaped
themselves into some such words as, * What cheek !
How dare she come here ?' But Edith was neither
low-bred nor vulgar; and, however violent her antipathy
to, and jealousy of, Lady Redbourne, she would
in any case have received her politely in her own house.
There was, however, no room for antipathy nor
jealousy in Edith's heart, great though it was. This
woman had, she thought, taken away her husband's
love from her ; but she had saved him, and her, and

her father from ruin by an act of generosity almost
unprecedented in its greatness. The injury was five
years old, indeed, and would have been forgotten had
it not left a scar behind — the one and only reason for
repining at her fate. The benefit also dated long
back; but its influence had scarcely died out. Its
results were visible all round — in her happy home, in
the prosperity of her husband and father, in the very
room where they were now all standing, waiting for
her, the mistress of the house, to speak to the unexpected
visitor.

These thoughts flashed through Edith's brain in
far less time than the reader requires to read them,
but still the silence was beginning to be oppressive
when Lady Redbourne broke it.

Mrs. Lascelles,' she began, addressing Edith, ' I
have taken the liberty to call, as we have just arrived
at Portino. Will you allow me to introduce my friend,
Mrs. Hardy V

Edith strove hard to say that she was very glad to
see Lady Redbourne. But five years had not yet
taught her to tell a story with fluency, readiness, or
unconcern. She blushed and stumbled and muttered
something which the visitors were good enough to
accept as if it were meant to be civil. Then, fortunately,
she thought of introducing her mother-in-law;
and the all-unconscious old lady at once
plunged into friendly inquiries as to their journey,
and the sort of talk which is sure to follow between
two Englishwomen who meet for the first time in a
foreign city.

Lady Redbourne sat down by Edith, and at once
began her story, which she evidently considered
necessary, in order to justify her visit.

My husband she said, ' has been an invalid for
some years. We spent last winter at Nice. This
season we went to Mentioned; but it did not seem to
agree with him. The doctors sent us to Pisa, and

there he became so very ill that I thought it would
soon be all over. I was dreadfully anxious, and I
telegraphed for Sir Harley Simple. He came last
week, and said the only place to go to was Portico.'


Edith was obliged to say something when Lady
Redbourne paused.

You must have had a very distressing time,' she
answered.

'Very. In England we had the advice always
within reach ; but here, one feels so dreadfully cut off
from all assistance. I do not believe much in Italian
doctors, do you V

No,' said Edith ; ' they are too fond of bleeding.'

Exactly. At Pisa they wanted to draw I forget
how many ounces from Lord Redbourne, and I had
to take the responsibility of hindering them. Sir
Harley says it would have killed him at once. And
the worst of it is, Redbourne has lost all confidence in

his own man — a young doctor, who has been with us
for more than a year.'

That is a pity,' remarked Edith.

Yes, is it not ? It is only his fancy ; for I am sure
Mr. Refer is most attentive, and understands my
husband thoroughly. We shall have to find someone
else, though, because he cannot bear him now.'

'When did you arrive. Lady Redbourne ?' asked
Edith. ' And where are you stopping ?'

We got here last night, late, by the express from
Rome. We are at the Hotel Volcano. They say it is
the best, and in the most healthy situation. But I
want to get a furnished villa as soon as possible. To
tell you the truth,' said Alma, with one of her
bewitching smiles, and placing her hand on Edith's
as she lowered her voice, ' I would not have taken
the liberty of calling on you, under the circumstances,
if I had not been so sadly troubled, and in want of
advice.'

VOL. III. 45

Edith's heart was touched at once. Here was this
woman, against whom she could bring no graver
accusation than that she had once flirted for an hour
or two with her husband and who had since made up
a thousand times for that offence by a signal act of
thoughtful generosity, now asking so slight a favour
as to be helped to find lodgings.

I shall be glad to assist in any way,' she replied.

I felt sure you would. You see, Mrs. Lascelles, it
is not very easy to find what I want. For, in the first
place, we must have sun and air. Then, of course,
good drainage is indispensable. If there is a carpenter's
shop near, or if they are building, or keep
cats in the neighbourhood, Lord Redbourne would
not be able to sleep. And the worst of it is, that it is
so difficult to move him ; and he suffers so much by
every change, that if once I got him safely into a
villa, I should be quite frightened to risk another
move if he disliked his quarters.'

I quite understand,' said Edith sympathizing.

All constraint seemed to have vanished. Lady
Redbourne was in want of her help, and no one in the
world had a better right to ask it. She rapidly ran
over in her mind the various places available.

'Of course I know that you have lived here the
greater part of your life,' Lady Redbourne went on.
When first I heard of Mr. Lascelles's illness some
years ago, I heard at the same time that he had
fortunately recovered, and that you had returned
here.*

She spoke of Mr. Lascelles with perfect calmness,
and without the faintest increase of colour. How
Edith envied her that tranquillity, real or apparent
!

'Yes; I have spent all my schooldays here,' said
Edith, ' and the greater part of my married life too.
So I ought to know the place pretty well.'

At the hotel I inquired who the principal English

45—2

signora was,' Lady Eedbourne went on, smiling.
When I want help or advice in Italy, I always do.
They all said, La Signorina Woodall ; and it was sometime
before I guessed that la signorina was the same
Mrs. Ronald Lascelles whom I had met — in England.'

Still Lady Redboiirne spoke as calmly as if she had
been discussing the weather. It wanted a closer
observer than Edith to detect that there had been a
slight pause before she had hit off the exact locality
of this previous meeting, and that the mere reflection
of a flush had risen to her cheek.

They call me Signorina still,' Edith said smiling,
for I have a great many friends among the old
people who have known my father and the Bank for
years. They are more used to the name of Woodall
than to that of Lascelles.'

So it appears,' said Lady Eedbourne ; who then
at once proceeded to business, and to describing in
detail what she wanted.

Questions and answers were continued until Signora
Donati rose to go. The matter not being entirely
settled, Lady Redbourne and Edith again sat down,
while Mrs. Hardy continued an animated conversation
with Mrs. Lascelles. At last Lady Redbourne said :

Thank you so much, Mrs. Lascelles. Now I think
I am thoroughly posted up in the pros and cons of all
the places, and I will drive first to the Villa Palmer.
Good-bye. A thousand thanks again.'

She held out her hand. Edith took it at once in
her own.

Mrs. Lascelles,' said her ladyship in a low voice,
while her companion was exchanging adieux with
the older lady, ' you must quite forget the past. Weare
all older and wiser now. Do not let there be a
cloud between us.'

As she finished, she looked anxiously into Edith's
face. It was not her usual glance of pride and
audacity combined ; she was humble, and might

almost have been taken for a repentant sinner. Her
dark eyes looked imploringly into Edith's candid
orbs, and she pressed both her hands. Her mouth
was slightly open, as if she were fearing to breathe,
lest she should fail to catch the words of forgiveness.

It was not often that Lady Redbourne had to plead
in vain, and certainly Edith was not inclined to be
hard or unforgiving. But it was difficult for her to
throw off at once her past dislikes and suspicions of
the dazzling creature who was now silently yet
urgently asking her pardon.

Lady Redbourne lowered her head, and whispered
:

I was still young and silly then, Mrs. Lascelles ;
and when I met him again at Richmond, I did not
know he was married.'

Oh !' exclaimed Edith in great surprise, and
suddenly feeling angry with Ronald, 'did he not
tell you V

He did, as soon as he had an opportunity,'
answered Lady Redbourne. ' But there was so much
general talk and chatter, that he could not at once
plunge into his private affairs.'

Of course not,' assented Edith approvingly, while
Mrs. Hardy, seeing that her friend was in deep
conversation, had started a new subject with Mrs.
Lascelles.

It was nothing that ought ever to cause you
a moment's uneasiness,' resumed Lady Redbourne
earnestly. ' You have no cause to be uneasy* dear,'
she continued, looking admiringly into Edith's fair face
and frank eyes. ' Wipe it out, and forget it altogether.'

And she bent forward to kiss her.

I will. Lady Redbourne,' answered Edith, returning
her ladyship's kiss. 'Good-bye! I am so glad
you came here at once.'

And she was really and sincerely glad. The danger
she had feared for years had approached quite closely.

and was not so formidable as it appeared from a
distance. Lady Redbourne was not a bad woman,
she was sure. No wicked woman could have looked
into her face so frankly, and have pleaded so
earnestly for forgiveness. And, in reality, what was
there to forgive ? A slight indiscretion of her
husband's — a trifling want of courtesy ! The kiss
was of course a wicked falsehood. George Stent
had invented it. George had so soon afterwards
turned out such a wicked story-teller, that she had
never believed him since, whatever statement he made.

Had she, then, been contending with phantoms all
these years, and grieving over the loss of Ronald's
love, when she in truth possessed it ? Perhaps so.
Perhaps his ravings during his illness were nought
but the disordered fancies of an overwrought brain ;
and possibly he was still her own Ronald, as he had
been in the old Sicilian days.

In any case Lady Redbourne knew nothing of his

delirium, nothing of his vagaries, nothing of his
doings. They had never met since they left London.
There had been no correspondence between them ; of
that she was sure. In short, everything pointed to
one conclusion only — that she had been making herself
very miserable for nothing at all. Lady Redbourne
was not in love with Ronald, or she would not
have come so frankly to Ronald's wife, asking her
forgiveness for a long-past indiscretion, and her
friendly help in the future; and Ronald was not in
love with her, or he would not have been so thoughtful
and kind to his wife during these years, nor
so apparently contented and cheerful at home.
Then she had been fighting windmills all the time in
the most quixotic manner, and had not only been
foolish, but even wicked. For she had repined more
than once, and had wished for what she already
possessed, and had been altogether very ungrateful
and very unjust.

When Lady Redbourne and her friend were once
more in the roomy but comfortable and creaky old
conveyance which the Hotel Volcano considered its
most fashionable equipage, the former began :

I have made my peace with the little woman. I
knew she was still angry about Richmond.'

How could you guess, Alma ?' asked Mrs. Hardy.

I cannot tell ; but I felt sure of it. And, besides,
she never forgave my having helped the Bank.'

Forgave ? Why she ought to have been intensely
grateful'

You poor innocent little goose !' exclaimed Lady
Redbourne, you are really quite too good for this
wicked world ! Why, of course she was grateful till
she knew who did it ; but when she found out that it
was I, she hated me like poison.'

I don't believe it,' answered Mrs. Hardy. ' Why
she looks the best and kindest of God's creatures.'

So she may be; but these quiet-looking, fair

women are jealous, Maud, very jealous : and when
they are aroused, they can be more passionate than
we dark ones. However, now it is all over. We are
friends — quite good friends, I believe.'

Why did you want to be friends with her. Alma ?
I never quite understand you,' inquired Mrs. Hardy.

Because I don't like not to be friends with anyone ;
because we shall have to be here some time, and I
could not get on at all without knowing the one
Englishwoman who receives and sees people ; because
I Hke her for herself ; because — oh ! don't bother me,
Maud, — because, in short, because I feel that I ought
to beg her pardon for having been fond of her
husband.'

Oh, you darling !' exclaimed Maud, kissing her
friend warmly. ' And you have quite got over it,
then ? I am so glad !'

'Quite, dear,' said Lady Redbourne solemnly,
pursing her pretty lips. * I shall be very glad to see

an old friend like Mr. Lascelles, of course ; but he
will only be a friend. All my youthful follies are
buried and forgotten.'

You feel perfectly certain of yourself, Alma V
Absolutely — firm as a rock ! No more nonsense
for me. I must look after his lordship. I am nearly
thirty years old ! I won't flirt with anybody again ;
and certainly not with a married man — least of all
with him. But here we are at the Villa Palmieri !
What a pretty house; and look at the vicar, dear!
It is perfectly lovely ! Get out first, please.'

A CLOUDLESS SKY.

Ronald would no doubt have been much astonished
if, on his return to their apartment, Edith had suddenly
told him that Lady Redbourne had arrived.
He might have been surprised into some exclamation
which would have set his wife doubting again. But,
as it happened, he looked at the cards in the anteroom
before entering the boudoir, and among them
found that of Lady Redbourne, which, for fear of her
name being mispronounced, she had handed to the
Italian who had opened the door. Therefore he was
quite prepared for the intelligence which might
otherwise have startled him.

As both his father and mother, besides several
friends, were dining with them on that evening, Edith
then merely told him what was public property — that
Lady Redbourne had come to Portino on account of
her husband's health, and was looking for a convenient
villa, But when all the visitors had gone, she
spoke more openly.

Go and call on Lady Redbourne tomorrow morning,
Ronald, if you have time,' she said.

He stared.

She looked at him frankly.

Why not ?' she asked. ' There is no reason that
you should not go, Ronald, is there ?'

'None that I know of,' he said, hesitatingly, not
knowing of the touching scene which had taken place
between the ladies.

If there ever was, Ronald dear, it is quite at an
end now,' she said significantly. ' I believe she is a
thoroughly good creature.'

Indeed she is !' exclaimed lie warmly. ^ As if any
of us could forget it !'

Therefore the least you can do is to go at once and
see if there is any matter in which she requires help.
You men can do some things better than we poor
women, and possibly she may want couriers and landlords
settled with, which I am sure you will manage
for her better than I can.'

So at about eleven o'clock he called at the Volcano,
and sent his card up to ' Miladi Reckon.'

With what conflicting emotions he had been filled
since Lady Redbourne's arrival may easily be imagined.
He believed that the old love was now quite killed.
But even were it not quite dead, the confidence shown
by Edith, and Alma's visit to her, would have been
enough to prevent its ever being revived. What he
had done, and what his thoughts had been five years
ago, was bad enough ; it would be still worse, still
more unpardonable, if he now allowed himself

any relapse into fanciful visions and wicked
dreams.

He was shown into one of those well-proportioned
rooms so common in Italy, in which the admirably
painted ceiling scarcely compensates for the entire
absence of comfort.

He had not to wait long. Before he had had time
to wonder what his reception would be, what she would
look like, what she would say, and what he could
answer, he was summoned into a smaller room, which
the efforts of Mrs. Hardy and Lady Redbourne's maid
had already invested with a certain air of home.

Alma came forward with outstretched hand. She
was alone ; a glance satisfied Ronald.

How do you do, Mr. Lascelles ?' she said, with her
sweet smile, and looking very frankly into his eyes.
I am glad you have come.'

There was scarcely a faint flush on her cheek. She
was to all appearance calm and composed, as if she
were receiving the most indifferent visitor.

Ronald, being only a clumsy man, blushed, stammered,
took her hand awkwardly, and looked extremely
uncomfortable.

We seem fated only to meet at long intervals,' said
Lady Redbourne, taking no notice of his confusion.
Do sit down. It is very good of you to come here
so early.'

Ronald did not know what to make of it ; but it
gradually dawned on him that Lady Redbourne
wished to ignore the past altogether, and to act
exactly as if nothing more had ever taken place
between them than a casual though friendly conversation.


He sat down and waited for her to speak, as he
could not find the right thing to say at the moment
He was not very conceited by nature, but, remembering
the sacrifice Alma had made for him five years
back, it was quite pardonable on his part to suppose
that she was then at least as much in love with him

VOL. III. 46

as he was with her — probably far more. Now she
evidently intended to take up an entirely new
position — one in every respect better, not only from
the point of view of morals and religion, but also
from that of worldly convenience. Being obliged to
come to Portino with her invalid husband, it would
obviously have been awkward not to be on friendly
terms with Mrs. Ronald Lascelles ; and still more awkward
to be on too friendly terms with Ronald himself.

But such is the perversity of human nature— even
of human nature which strives to be virtuous, and to
avoid temptation — that Ronald felt rather vexed at
being relegated from the position of acknowledged
favourite to that of an ordinary friend.

Mrs. Lascelles told me you would be good enough
to help me about my villa Alma went on. ' I hope
it will not be too much trouble.'

None at all !' exclaimed he. * What can I do for
you ? Have you found something to suit V

Well, the Villa Palmieri would do, if I could get
rid of the landlord who insists upon living on the
ground-floor with all his dirty children. That would
never answer. If you could get him to turn out, and
recommend some one to give the whole place a good
cleaning, I should be so much obliged.'

I will do my best, Lady Redbourne. What rent
does he ask ?'

Oh, you can give him what you think proper. I
don't mind what it costs, so long as we are not outrageously
robbed and we get what is required for
Lord Redbourne.'

I know your generosity in money matters of old,'
said Ronald significantly.

Alma held up a taper forefinger.

You must never allude to it again,' she said.
And as we are alone, we may as well understand
each other once for all. You have forgotten that we
met at Richmond, have you not V

46—2

How could I ever forget it ?'

You must. We were never there at all. It was
all a mistake — a dream, if you like. It is a dream,'
she added sadly, ' I have cried over often enough, and
have repented bitterly. But it is quite over ; it has
long been quite over. Do you understand ?'

I think I do,' said Ronald humbly. ' It shall be,
if you wish it so.'

For, do what he would, he could not look on that
glorious creature and ^ gracefully acquiesce in her
being henceforth no more to him, no dearer, no
nearer, than she was to any casual acquaintance.

'I certainly wish it. Unless you can altogether
and entirely forget it, you will compel me to leave
Portino,' said Alma, compressing her lips.

Anything but that ! I will obey you implicitly.'


Thank you. I expected as much from yovb,
Ronald. I reckoned on your help in doing what is

right. I have made acquaintance with your wife,
and feel as if I should love her very much. She
must be a dear, good creature !'

She is !' said Ronald emphatically.

And she shall never have any cause to complain
of me. Now we have settled that matter for good
and all, will you see this wretched man for me ?'

Lady Redbourne handed Ronald a highly glazed
card, bearing the name of the proud possessor of the
Villa Palmieri. A quarter of an hour was then spent
in discussing other matters in which his assistance
was required, and, Mrs. Hardy having joined them,
Ronald took his leave.

He descended the great staircase of the Volcano
Hotel much relieved, and yet not entirely satisfied.
He was, of course, very glad that the interview had
passed off so pleasantly, and that no disagreeable
consequences were likely to result from Lady Redbourne's
visit to Portino. On the other hand, he

could not help some slight surprise that she had been
able to shake off so easily a feeling which he had
thought to be almost a part of her being. It was not
the same with himself The moment he saw her, he
felt that it only wanted a little encouragement from
her to make him once more forget his duty and his
religion. He knew his weakness ; trembled when he
thought of it ; and thanked Providence that she was
stronger than himself

Yet there mingled with this thanksgiving a shade
of annoyance that he should have been mistaken in
her ; that a woman who, as he thought, cherished a
deep love, which could only end with life itself, should
in five short years have been able so to conquer it as
to meet her former lover without the slightest
emotion, without a tremor, without a blush. The.
shade of annoyance, arising possibly from mortified
vanity or from some other remote cause, passed off
quickly enough. The satisfaction that things were

turning out so well remained, and he felt that it
would be the better for his future, and for his domestic
life, that the beautiful vision of his brain should
assume a real and tangible form ; that* the face,
which he had always dreamt to be loving and
passionate, should become in reality cool and self-possessed;
that the tender glances of his fancy
should in truth be friendly, but no more ; that,, in
short, the poetic ideal should become only a pleasant
but prosaic acquaintance.

Ronald reported his visit very fully, and Edith
hastened to return Alma's call.

The latter was soon installed in the Villa Palmieri,
and for about a fortnight Ronald saw but little of her
except in his wife's drawing-room. Gradually he
dropped into his new position, and was surprised to
find that it was not an unpleasant one.

Alma adhered very strictly to the programme she
had laid down, and she appeared to be able to carry

it out without effort. If the fire was not quite
extinguished, it was so complete buried in the
ashes that no warmth penetrated to the surface.

Lord Rcdbourne's temper had not improved with
his failing health, and no doubt his wife had a weary-time
of it, although the ample means at their disposal
permitted the employment of any number of paid
nurses, attendants, and doctors. What scenes she
went through with the querulous invalid, what
venomous words she bore in patience from his uncontrolled
tongue, it boots not to relate. They made
their mark on her beautiful face. For five years she
had had to bear, as best she might, the harsh and
evil results of her mariage de convenance. And
for a portion at least of these five years she had
carried on a fight with her own rebellious heart,
which cried out for the unattainable, and gave her
no peace. She had beaten down its failings, and
had stifled her repulsion to the wicked old man who

called her his wife when it suited his fancy, only to treat
her worse than a paid servant when she unwittingly
trod on one of his numerous moral corns. No paid
servant would have borne what Alma strove to bear
in patience and humility.

In this hard work she was bravely helped by Maud
Hardy ; and in her friend's companionship she found
that repose which her mind and her nerves required,
after she had spent many hours in endeavouring to
persuade her husband to obey the doctor's directions ;
in trying to prevent his committing some egregious
folly; or in inducing him to get rid of the disreputable
persons of both sexes whom he called his friends,
and admitted into his own room when he wanted, ashe
said, ' a little evening up.'

Ever since ' Black Friday ' she had ceased to charm
and fascinate London society by her frequent presence
; the doctors said London air was injurious to
Lord Redbourne, and her life had been spent in German

baths, French spas and seaside places, and Italian
winter resorts, according to the seasons. Though her
husband had never shown any real affection for her,
and even in the earliest days had alternated between
long fits of ill-humour and short periods of exaggerated
civility, yet as his condition grew permanently
worse, he became still more exacting, and was not
satisfied unless Alma was always within call.

She had laughed scornfully when, five years back,
Ronald had suggested that she was his lordship's
nurse ; now she had gradually drifted into the position
she had then disdained. It was discovered by the
doctors that when Lord Redbourne had a particularly
foolish or wicked fit on him, his wife was the one
person who could sometimes control him. He was
ashamed to give way entirely to his evil ways and
temper before her. And his lordship, having quarrelled
with all his doctors in succession, now desired
his wife to accompany him in his daily drives. Thus

much of Lady Redbourne's time and thoughts Avere
occupied with the invalid, and duties, at first repulsive
and irksome, became fairly tolerable in time. She
always looked u23on them as a punishment, though in
fact they were nothing but the natural consequences
of a worldly marriage ; and perhaps the influence of
Mrs. Hardy, who was fond of recognising the active
intervention of the Supreme Being in every trifling
event of human life, made her bear her trials with
less impatience than she would, in the days of her
proud maidenhood, have thought possible.

It is some little consolation to believe that one is
especially chosen by Providence as an example, and
to feel that one is expiating one's own sins and those
of others by a consistent discharge of disagreeable
duties.

Without Mrs. Hardy's advice and consolation.
Alma might perhaps have rebelled, and left her
husband to shift for himself, braving any resultant

scandal ; or, again, she might have done her work
perfunctorily and sulkily, telling herself that ' it
served her right.' But, thanks to her friend, she
actually began to take pleasure in making the
wretched old valetudinarian as comfortable as she
could, and in accomplishing, as far as she was able,
what she had believed to be the special decree of
Providence about herself.

It fitted in with this theory of hers that she should
meet Ronald and give no sign. It was part of her
punishment, now that she had conquered, as she
thought, her ill-regulated heart, that she should meet
with indifference the only man who had ever touched
it. It was also a portion of the programme that she
should make friends with his wife — the woman who,
according to her former wild and impious views, had
purchased Ronald, and had thereby done her an irremediable
injury. In thorough good faith, and with
the best intentions, she endeavoured to work out what

she and Mrs. Hardy believed to be her allotted task.
And the beginnings were so easy that it never struck
her, nor her religious and artless friend, that the path
she was thus gaily entering on in the belief that it led
straight to heaven might possibly, after all, have a
sudden turn in the opposite direction. Just as
Ronald, after a few meetings with her, fell into
the position of an old and trusted friend; so she,
after she had got over the first awkward interview,
was able, without effort, to behave towards him just in
the same way as she would have behaved to any other
man for whom she entertained nothing more than
regard and respect. Only savages, or men and women
otherwise civilised, but who have not frequented
society, find any difficulty in outwardly controlling
their feelings on ordinary occasions, and the habits
acquired by society's rules become so much a part of
most people's nature that they are often mistaken for
the promptings of nature itself. Thus before George

Stent and Ms wife arrived at Portino to attend the
wedding, a state of things had been established which
appeared eminently satisfactory to all concerned.

Edith took very cordially to the frank and beautiful
creature who had been so noble as to ask her forgiveness
for an almost forgotten offence, and the ladies
met frequently. She and Ronald gave a dinner-party,
followed by one of the usual simple Italian receptions ;
and Lady Redbourne was, of course, invited. She had
the good taste to decline to come to dinner, on the
very reasonable grounds that she had to attend on
the invalid, but she and Maud Hardy came in the
evening. Her stately beauty, united as it was to an
American warmth and charm of manner very seldom
found in Englishwomen, her rich and tasteful dress,
and her entire absence of any hauteur, produced an
excellent impression upon the party, which consisted
in almost equal parts of Italians and English.

The Consul was delighted with her, and paid her

attention in a pleasant old-world style. Mrs. Lascelles
admired and talked with her for nearly half an hour.
Signora Donati and the other Italian ladies admired
and discussed every detail of her toilette, and the men
crowded round, anxious for the honour of an introduction.
If any faint fears had still lingered in
Edith's pure mind, Ronald's behaviour on this evening
gave them their final dismissal. As host, it was of
course his duty to be attentive to the most distinguished
of his guests ; but, while unaffectedly glad
to be able to do the honours to so beautiful and attractive
a woman, not even the most jealous observer could
have detected in his conduct anything more than the
deferential courtesy of a gentleman. He presented
to her the most notable of his Italian friends; and
when he had done all that was proper and necessary
he devoted himself to his other duties, not forgetting
to make Mrs. Hardy as much at home as possible.
It was his father who conducted Lady Redbourne to

the buffet, while Rod aid presented his arm to Signora
Donati, who was as much pleased with the lovely
stranger as any of the men, and hastened to invite her
to the ball which would be given at her palazzo in
honour of her son's wedding.

When the last of the guests had departed, Konald
metaphorically patted himself on the back. Perhaps
for the first time he now felt sure of himself, and convinced
that his romantic dreams and wild, lawless
fancies had been completely driven away by sober
propriety and solid reality. He need no longer be
afraid of his rebellious heart or his too fervid imagination.
His heart beat no faster than usual, and his
brain was at rest. In his genuine pleasure that at
last there was an end to his troubles and struggles, he
was more affectionate than usual to Edith, who
rejoiced quite as warmly, and still more deeply, that
the siren's song was silent and that Circe had ceased
to enchant.

Ronald, I am very glad,' she said, when they were
alone, ' that Lady Redbourne came to Portino.'

Are you really V he asked. ' So am I.'

Yes. Now I feel happy and relieved once more.
I have been able to thank her for what she did for
us.'

Have you indeed V

Yes. I told her the story of those days, and what
she saved us from. She actually cried. I am sure
she is a very good, noble woman.'

I think she is,' Ronald agreed.

It was brave of her to forget the conventional rules
of society for a moment, and to do what most people
would call a Quixotic and improper act. I did not
understand it at the time, and used to feel as if I could
never thank her for it.'

You have changed your opinion altogether, then ?'
remarked Ronald.

Yes, dear,' she replied, kissing him. ' She liked

VOL. III. 47

you before we were married, and she resolved to help
you in that dreadful time, whatever people might
think about it. I am proud that you had such a good
friend. I was jealous, I confess — I was miserable and
unhappy

Never mind now, pet,' said Ronald, stroking her fair
head. ' It is all over, and we are happy all round.'

Quite,' agreed Edith. ' And I like Lady Redbourne
for herself. She behaves wonderfully to that horrid
old husband of hers. Oh, Ronald ! Ronald !' she
added, laying an arm round his neck, ' I am happier
than I deserve ! I cannot forgive myself for having
been so unjust and suspicious.'

A pang shot through Ronald's heart. Of course he
had never known how far his wife's fears had gone,
nor had he any idea of the terrible ordeal through
which she had passed unscathed ; but there must have
been a sad and awful trial, for now, five years later, she
was deeply moved when she thought of it.

When I think of that noble-hearted woman, and
her Hfe with that wicked, cruel old man, I cannot
help seeing that I have far more than I deserve !' continued
Edith. ' There are the children, and you she
added caressingly, ' and there is nothing to trouble us
nothing at all !'

Nothing !' assented Ronald. ' Not a speck on the
horizon.'

And at the same hour Mrs. Lascelles was speaking
to the Consul of their son.

What a capital host he makes !' said the fond
mother. ' And how proud he and Edith are of each
other !'

He does things very well assented Mr. Lascelles,
and seems very comfortable and happy.'

I should think so, indeed,' cried his wife, exultingly.
' See how right I was ! — how much better I
knew him than he did himself ! I was perfectly certain
that he would be entirely in love with Edith in a

47—2

few months. Now they have been married five years,
and I am sure no couple could be happier. I only
hope Donati will make our dear Teresina as good a
husband as Ronald is to Edith.'

I trust in Heaven he will,' said Mr. Lascelles,
devoutly.

I thank God that I had the strength to carry it
through,' said Mrs. Lascelles. ' It almost makes me
laugh now to remember what trouble Ronald gave us.
I can laugh, for, after these years, there is not a cloud
on their happiness.'

None !' exclaimed the Consul. ' God bless them !'

NO BIGGER THAN A MAN'S HAND.'

There were various matters on which Lady Redbourne
required advice and help — matters in which
she was unwilling to trust paid assistants, and which
a lady could only do with difficulty here. There was
the awkward question of medical attendance for Lord
Redbourne, and there were various differences between
her and the proprietor of Villa Palmieri. She required
horses and carriages better than the wretched
conveyances for hire at Portino, and she wanted
stables to put the horses in.

Ronald was naturally referred to; at first for advice
only ; then, as Edith herself suggested that he should

help, Lady Redbourne accepted his active intervention.
He was introduced to the querulous invalid at
his own request, and persuaded him to accept the
services of a young man who had been a college
friend of his own, and who had taken to the medical
profession rather later in life than most, from a
genuine love for the healing art.

Lord Redbourne hated nothing so much as being
bored. The flippant, cynical tone which Ronald had
not entirely forgotten was revived by the invalid's
own manner, and delighted him greatly. He wanted
to have everything his own way — to hear the latest
gossip, to be supplied with the newest scandal, and
to be entertained by highly spiced stories ; but he
hated being ' made a fuss about,' and wished people
to understand that he, Lord Redbourne, was quite
sound in health, or only suffering from a slight and
temporary indisposition.

Doctor Allen, to whom Lady Redbourne offered

the position of medical attendant, on Ronald's recommendation,
was a cultivated man of the world, older
than the young practitioners who had hitherto been
Lord Redbourne's advisers, and with all the tact and
good taste which only good society can give. Until
he arrived, Ronald had to drive out with the invalid
more frequently than he at all liked ; but as soon as
Doctor Allen had been duly presented his success was
assured, and Ronald was relieved.

The new doctor was chatty and cheerful, and did not
look at all afraid of his lordship's dying suddenly under
his hands. He never contradicted the old man, and
even allowed him to do much which his former doctors
had prohibited under the severest pains and penalties.
He read French novels to him, and sometimes even
joined the disreputable parties which Lord Redbourne
insisted on collections in his sick-room.

Doctor Allen was not, perhaps, strictly moral in
this respect. But. undoubtedly, he persuaded his

patient to be more gentle and more amiable, and his
efforts humanized the querulous old man in a manner
the veteran sinner himself never suspected.

Eon aid was glad to be relieved ; still more glad was
Lady Redbourne, who felt a weight off' her heart, now
that she knew that her husband was in good hands,
and was himself satisfied with the companion she had
been able to provide for him. Allen was a gentleman
by birth and education, and when, on the third day of
his attendance. Lord Redbourne had shown a specimen
of his temper by a coarse and brutal remark addressed
to his wife in the presence of the doctor, the
latter waited till they were alone, and then quietly
told the invalid that he would return to England if
he continued this sort of behaviour to her ladyship.


Lord Redbourne stared in amazement, and began a
violent speech, which Doctor Allen immediately cut
short by leaving the room. When he returned to the

sick man later in the day, he said calmly that he had
accepted the post as medical attendant to his lordship
under the impression that he was a gentleman ; that
no sickness could excuse coarse language to any
woman, still less to Lady Redbourne ; that he could
not listen to it, and therefore must go, abandoning
any claim to salary or compensation.

Lord Redbourne was at first very angry, but
gradually cooled down and wound up by saying
cynically, ' AVell, Allen, I cannot do without you ; so
I suppose I must keep you on your own terms.' And
from that day there was never a coarse or brutal
word addressed to Alma.

The result of this change Alas, that Ronald's time
being no longer taken up by Lord Redbourne, it was
more at the disposal of his wife. Gradually it came
to be a usual thing for him to walk round to the villa,
after the Bank had closed, and drink a cup of tea in
Alma's boudoir.

At first these visits were prompted by some
business matters which required discussion — some
horse that had' to be bought or sold, or some other
trifle which would be better done by Ronald, with his
knowledge of Portino and the Portinese, than by
Lady Redbourne herself. But soon the afternoon call

was almost a matter of course, without any special
motive for it.

Mrs. Hardy was generally in the room on these

occasions, and the conversation, though very friendly
and intimate, never took a dangerous turn. Frequently
other visitors dropped in ; but afternoon tea was not
yet an institution in Portino, and most calls were
over before five o'clock.

Edith did not think of asking Ronald where he
had spent the hours between five and seven. Before
Lady Redbourne's arrival, he had occasionally played
a rubber at the club ; sometimes called on friends,
and sometimes came home early to play with the

children. As he still went into the nursery at least
once a week, it did not occur to her to inquire what
he had been doing, and it certainly did not occur to
Ronald to volunteer information. There was, he kept
telling himself no danger in these frequent visits. Mrs.
Hardy was always there, and, besides, he and Lady
Redbourne had many matters to arrange which must
be attended to.

From time to time he had misgivings. To sit by
her side, to look into those dark eyes, to make those
beautiful lips open in that sweet, fascinating smile,
to receive a friendly pressure from those small taper
fingers — all this was very pleasant, but was it not too
pleasant to be safe ?

He pooh-poohed his fears, stifled his conscience,
and returned on the next afternoon, talking and
trying to amuse Alma till he was once more gratified
by a flash of bright interest from the black eyes, and
till the lovely curve of her mouth displayed her,

pearly teeth as she laughed at some sharp remark he
made.

One afternoon he left the villa at the accustomed
time, about half-past six. Alma had been more
animated than usual, and her smiles had been more
frequent.

My dear,' said Mrs. Hardy to her, ' Mr. Lascelles
comes too often.'

Why, Maud dear ?' exclaimed Alma. ' Don't be
afraid : he won't hurt me.'

I am quite sure Mrs. Ronald would not like
it.'

Edith has sent him here herself, often and often,'
said Lady Redbourne rather hotly; 'and you know
how much he has done for me !'

Too much, I am afraid. Alma. I am not happy
about it.'

I do not know how we could possibly have goton
without him,' continued Lady Redbourne. 'He

found Doctor Allen tor us ; and Redbourne has been
a different man altogether since he came.'

I know assented Mrs. Hardy. ' But still, dear,
that is no reason to let him come every afternoon to
talk nonsense to you.'

I cannot be so rude as to tell him not to come.
And he does not talk nonsense, except what everyone
is welcome to hear !'

Oh, I know there is nothing wrong,' said Mrs.
Hardy. '' He is a very charming man, and amuses us
very much.'

Well, then, to what do you object, you wretched
preacher V asked Alma playfully.

I think he ought not to come so often, unless his
wife knows all about it.'

I dare say he tells her,' remarked Alma flippantly.


I am sure he does not,' said Mrs. Hardy.
There is nothing in it, anyhow.'

No, I do not think there is ; and, if I can help it,
there never shall be anything in it. But it must not
go on.'

Oh dear ! oh dear !' cried Alma, ' you want to
shut me up altogether, Maud. You are too bad !'

Don't try and evade the question,' said Mrs.
Hardy, almost gravely. ' You know that I do not
wish to shut you up. I want to prevent mischief;
and it is not right that Mr. Lascelles should come
every day and flirt with you like this !'

He is not flirting ! You hear every word he
says.'

Not always,' remarked Mrs. Hardy. ' To-day, for
instance, you and he were talking in a low voice forever
so long. Besides, flirting or not, I repeat that,
as you were too fond of each other in old times, it is
dangerous.'

I can take care of myself said Alma proudly. ' I
am old enough, surely.'

I want to help you to take care of yourself said
Mrs. Hardy ; ' and I also want to prevent trouble
between those two young people. Mrs. Ronald is a
good little thing.'

A darling !' exclaimed Lady Redbourne impulsively.
' I would not do anything to hurt her feelings
for the world.'

Exactly so. I knew you liked her, dear.'

I like her immensely. She is one of the best and
most sensible women I ever met.'

Then think it over for a moment, and say frankly
whether she would like her husband to come here so
often continued Mrs. Hardy.

I do not think she would said Alma gently; after
a pause. ' What am I to do, Maud dear ?'

Only just suggest to Mr. Lascelles not to come to
tea every day said Mrs. Hardy.

That is very difficult to do, without also suggesting
more than there is in the whole matter,' remarked

Alma reflectively. 'Recollect, I feel quite safe. I
like him, of course — I like him immensely. But it is
nothing like the old feeling; quite a different one
altogether !' she added positively, seeing a little
scepticism on Mrs. Hardy's face. ' All the old wickedness
is gone, never to return. There is not a bit of
harm in his coming, nor any danger; but his wife
might fancy something, and so he shan't come anymore.



That's right, dear !' said Maud, kissing her approvingly.


But I do not quite know how to set to work,' remarked
Alma. * Oh !' she added suddenly, after a
short pause ; * his sister is coming tomorrow or the
next day, is she not V

I think he said so.'

Well, I'll tell him that, now he has visitors from
England, and Teresina is to be married so soon, I

really cannot take up so much of his time ; and he
rust not come to tea so often.'

That will do capitally assented Mrs. Hardy. ' You
are a good, dear creature, Alma ; I am so glad you
see that I am right.'

Only about Edith,' said Lady Redbourne ; ' only
because of her. I love her too much to do her any
injury, however slight : that is the only reason. Do
not fancy that I am afraid of myself.'

You have less worry with Lord Redbourne now ;
and I think it is as well to be on the safe side, and to
avoid thinking too much of Mr. Lascelles.'

And can I be so ungrateful ?' exclaimed Alma. ' I
am saved much terrible suffering and anxiety because
he has helped me.'

*I don't want you to be ungrateful said Maud:
*■ only do not think too much about him. Remember
your past folly and repentance.'

'I shall not forget, indeed. Don't be afraid, old

VOL. III. 48

goosey.' Then she added, kissing her, ' I'll give

Ronald a broad hint tomorrow; and now go and

dress for dinner.'

It was on the next morning that George Stent and

Clara were due at Portino ; and Ronald did not look

forward to the arrival of his brother-in-law without

some little trepidation.

George had caused much trouble and suffering in

the past ; but [he had had a severe lesson, and was
not indeed likely to interfere again. Still, Ronald felt
that to him, and narrow-minded people like him, the
present position of affairs might appear somewhat
anomalous. George had no atom of tact, and might
easily say or do something which would put his
father and mother and all the English colony on the
look-out.

So far, there were only four persons in Portino
who knew that the relations between Lady Redbourne
and himself had ever been a little more than merely

friendly. They were Alma, himself, Mrs. Hardy, and
his wife. Now, there would be two more, and one of
them the worst enemy he had ever had. True, he
had done that enemy an enormous benefit ; but the
creature was very clumsy and stupid, if not, as Ronald
almost suspected, spiteful and malicious. He was a
dangerous person to introduce ; while, without Kindness
and good feeling, an explosion might easily
occur.

Ronald resolved to arm himself against any possible
malevolence with the best of weapons. He would
not give him a chance ; he would abandon his daily
visits to Lady Redbourne. George might stare in
wonder ; but there should not be anything of which
he could lay hold.

Thus his own decision was on all fours with Lady
Redbourne's resolution ; and it happened that the
latter was not called upon to put her wishes into
words. For the very next afternoon he told her that

48—2

lie was going to meet his sister and brother-in-law on
the arrival of the ten o'clock train, and that he feared
that until Teresina's wedding was over he should be
very busy.

Alma seized the opportunity thus offered, and at
once told him that he must not think of coming to
her again till all was over ; that as they were now
comfortably settled in every respect — thanks to him —
he need not be at all anxious, and so on. She promised
to send for him if she wanted his services at
all ; and he left the Villa with a good conscience, while
Lady Redbourne applauded herself for having followed
Maud's advice, and having been able to do it so
easily.

Ronald could not make up his mind whether to tell
George Stent, as soon as there was a chance, that Lady
Redbourne was in Portino, or to run the risk of the
news being imparted to him in the presence of Mr.
and Mrs. Lascelles, when George would probably say

something stupid. ' Conscience doth make cowards of
us all;' and Ronald would probably not have been so
nervous about his brother-in-law's behaviour if his
own conscience had been perfectly clear.

It turned out, however, that there was no occasion
whatever for anxiety on this account, though danger
approached from another source. In one of her recent
letters to Clara, Mrs. Lascelles had mentioned the arrival
of the beautiful American; and, long before they started
for Italy, George, always ready to believe the worst
of Ronald, had made up his mind that the whole
affair was, as he termed it, * a plant.' Translated into
ordinary English, this signified that Lady Redbourne
had come to Portino by previous arrangement with
her lover, and that Ronald was that lover. Though
nearly seven years of marriage had almost made a
genuine Stent of Clara, yet her husband knew better
than to tell her of his suspicion, or, as he termed it,
his conviction. The precious clan had decided in an

after-dinner conclave that no other solution was possible,
and that Ronald's audacity in vice surpassed all
bounds, but could not be condignly punished.

None of them would have considered himself bound
by ties of gratitude. Such a word had no meaning
for the Stent family. But the fact was that they had
fought once, and had discovered to their sorrow that
Woodalls' Bank was stronger than Stent Brothers, and
Stent and Cowcroft, and Stent and Co. all together, and
they did not wish to try conclusions again. Therefore
nothing could be done in the City to expose
Ronald's scandalous behaviour. If, however, the
family in Portino could by any means be made to
open its eyes, and put a stop to the disgraceful goings-on
of one of its members, those means, as it was felt
by every one of the clan, ought at once to be adopted.

Mr. William Stent suggested writing to Ronald's
mother. George did not at first disapprove of the
idea ; but Mr. Stent senior pointed out its dangers.

Never,' he said, ' put your name to paper, if you
can effect your purpose without doing so.'

On the pressing necessity for action, being their duty
as Christians and connections, he fully agreed with
this sons ; but on the manner of doing that duty he
entertained other and sounder views, which, of course,
eventually prevailed.

George went out to Portino in a double capacity
He was to be present at the wedding not only as the
brother-in-law of the intended bride, but also to
Avatch, report on, and, if necessary, expose Ronald's
nefarious conduct. The importance of what he
termed his sacred mission made him more pompous
than ever, and gave him the power of concealing his
indignation when Ronald met them at the railway
station. The latter took very little notice of his
brother-in-law, whom he had not learnt to love in the
past five years, and was entirely taken up by Clara,
her maid, her boxes, and her news. They were to

stop at the Consulate, where the rest of the family
was assembled ; and though Ronald noticed George's
fishy eyes staring at him more than once during the
evening, he attached no importance to the circumstance,
as George's eyes were always fishy, and whenever
he looked at anything or anybody, the look was
a fixed stare.

The wedding was fixed for the following Wednesday,
and there was much for all of them to do in the few
days which yet remained.

Clara wanted to see all her old Portino friends,
and wished George to go with her. Mrs. Lascelles
and Edith were full of preparations of every sort;
and, as the Bank business would not stop on account
of his sister's marriage, Ronald found that his
time was very fully occupied. Still he missed his
afternoon tea at the Villa Palmieri. Involuntarily he
caught himself walking towards the promontory
when he left the office ; but he quickly stopped, and

turned the other way, to discharge his manifold social
and brotherly duties.

During these days George endeavoured to watch,
and struggled as well as he could against being dragged
off to call on one lady after another. His periods of
observation were short and irregular. But if he had
been ever so constant and attentive he would have
discovered nothing, for there was nothing to discover.
He met Lady Melbourne once, driving on the Marina
with her husband. He heard her spoken of more
than once, but always merely as a lovely and agreeable
woman. He could, so far, make nothing of the
ease intrusted to his vigilance.

WHAT George Sent SAW.

April in Portino is generally warm, and this year
proved no exception to the rule. When the bells
clanged out on Easter Sunday even the chilly natives
were not afraid to abandon their cloaks and to appear
on the sunny Marina in spring garments. On every
side there were signs of approaching summer. The
horse-chestnuts were in flower; the buds of the Spanish
chestnuts were swelling ; the gardens of the villas
along the seashore were fragrant with lilac ; the violets
suddenly disappeared, withered by the warm sun;
tulips and ranunculi were in full glory ; acacias and
plane trees were covered with tiny drooping leaves.

The hotels were emptying rapidly, and foreigners were
turning northward.

On this Sunday Mrs. Hardy entered Lady melbourne's
boudoir with a serious face. She had just
received a budget of home letters, and its news of her
nearest relation — her brother — was of such a nature
that her immediate return to England was necessary,
if she wished to see him still alive. She handed the
letters to Lady Redbourne, who read them in silence.

I am so sorry, dear,' she exclaimed, when she had
finished them. ' I suppose you must go at once V

I should Hke to leave by the night train,' replied
Mrs. Hardy. ' It would be dreadful if anything were
to happen before I could get home.'

Terrible ! You must take Jones with you, of

course.

You are very good, Alma. The maid will be a
great help ; I shall be glad of her company, too. But
how will you manage V

Oh, Agnes can manage for the short time that we
shall still remain here said Lady Redbourne. * We
shall be in England by the tenth of May, I should
think;

That is a consolation to me T said Maud. ' I am
very uneasy at leaving you behind

Why ? Am I not in good hands ?'

'The hands are too good in many respects,' answered
Mrs. Hardy. ' I am not so certain of you as
you are of yourself.'

'Do not fret on my account, dear; you have
anxieties enough of your own. Next week we shall
start; for Redbourne's yacht ought to be here in a few
days, and as soon as she has been cleaned and polished
up, and all the supplies sent on board, we shall sail
straight for Plymouth.'

At any rate Mr. Lascelles will not come home
with you in the Laodicea,' said Maud. 'That is some
-consolation.'

Lady Redbourne raised her eyes, glancing at her
friend with a flash of fun. ' Dear me, Maud, what a
splendid idea ! It never struck me before ! I might
ask him, at all events. It would be charming to have
him to amuse me on the dull voyage.'

Alma, Alma !' cried Mrs. Hardy, quite alarmed.
How can you be so naughty I Such a thing would
be positively awful'

Dont be afraid, Maud. I do not mean it seriously.
Of course it would not do ! I wish it would !' she
added, with a sigh.

I am dreadfully afraid of leaving you alone, dear,'
said Maud again. ' I am not at all sure that it is right
for me to go.'

This is absurd !' exclaimed Alma. * You mus go.
You are always talking of duty, and yet you hesitate
assure you I should be ready to leave Portino at
this very moment, if we could move Lord Redbourne.
But you know he must not travel by railway if it can

be avoided, and the Laodicea has been ordered hereon
purpose to fetch him.'

I know, dear. Of course you cannot leave your
husband. But still I cannot help being anxious.
You will promise to be careful, will you not ?'

^ Of course. I shall not see Mr. Lascelles at all till
the ball at Donati's, and then I know he will be so
busy that I shall not have much chance of doing
mischief. Do you think me so awfully weak and
fooHsh, dear V

No, darling replied Mrs. Hardy, caressingly ; ' I
know that you have done your duty, and have been
brave and good.'
'Well, then?'

Well, I am afraid — I am very much afraid — that
you still care for him.^

Alma's eyelids dropped. A flush rose to her cheeks
and suffused her temples. The sudden colour and
confusion made her look like a maiden in her teens.

One would have scarcely recognized in the lovely, blushing
creature the stately lady who had reigned supremo
in so many drawing-rooms, and whose face only gave
back a slightly supercilious smile to the many flatteries
heaped on her. She shook her head.

I feared as much ! Oh, Alma,' exclaimed Maud,
believing the blush rather than the negative sign,
be prudent, and think of your friend, his wife.'

Edith will always keep me safe,' said Lady Redbourne,
now again looking into her friend's eyes. ' I
love her too much to let him care about me.'

That is right, dear. I feel that she will bea better
guardian to you than I could be. Now I must go
and look after my things

It was a glorious day — a real Italian spring day —
on which Teresa Lascelles and Victoria Donati were
united, first in the magnificent church of Santissima
Annunziata, and then in the modest, bare little English

chapel. Perhaps Mr. and Mrs. Lascelles had lived so
long in a Catholic country that their Protestantism
was somewhat blunted. At any rate they had not
raised any objection to the marriage on the ground of
difference of faith. It was stipulated in the contralto
that the sons, if any, were to be brought up in tho
belief of their father (which, to tell the truth, was
rather an ambiguous term, since, like most young
sons of United Italy, Donati would have been puzzled
to say in what he believed), and the daughters in that
of their mother. The match was a brilliant one for
the dowerless girl ; and as her parents had seen her
youthful husband grow up under their very eyes, they
had had every opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the good heart and clear sense which were occasionally
concealed by a little Italian swagger or
affected cynicism. Bride and bridegroom looked
supremely happy in their different ways : the former
blushing and confused, but not for a moment tearful ;

the latter exultant, with erect figure and sparkling
eyes, with no fear for the future, treading as if on air,
and proudly supporting the graceful girlish figure he
had sworn to cherish and protect.

The wedding-breakfast was, of course, given at the
Consulate ; but when the bride and bridegroom had
departed for their honeymoon tour, their friends were
consoled by a grand ball at the Donatis' palace — the
same where, six years before, Ronald had quarrelled
with the Marchese della Rocca. To the breakfast
only the relations and intimate friends of both families
had been asked ; for the Consul's means were small,
and his rooms not very large. To the Donatis' all
Portino were invited — at any rate, all the inhabitants
of Portino who were qualified for society. Lad'
Redboume was present, as a matter of course. Edith
had called on her to apologize sweetly for Mr. Lascelles
not having invited her to the wedding.

The arrangement suited Alma ; for while she would
VOL. III. 49

have been unable to leave the Villa in the morning,
as Mrs. Hardy's absence had increased her work, she
could easily dispose of her evening; and she appeared
at the ball just when it had reached its culminating
point. The great handsome suite of rooms, all opening
into each other by double doors, was brilliantly
decorated ; the smooth parquet floors and the huge
mirrors reflected the light of hundreds of wax candles.
The windows all looked upon a wide balcony or terrace,
which was illuminated by many paper lanterns
hung from the branches of the orange trees and the
cornices of the palazzo. At each end of the terrace
was a flight of steps leading down into the garden — a
garden which was the admiration of Portino, for it
was laid out ' alV Angles,' and, though in the very
centre of the city, there were winding walks, and bits
of turf, and shady shrubberies, and retired benches,
and even a croquet lawn. The evening was warm,
and the moon's silvery crescent shone in a midsummer

night's sky. The ball-room windows were
soon set open, and even the chilly Italian matrons
did not complain of the draught, but only drew their
lace mantles a little closer around them.

Lady Redbourne was, as usual, dressed in black ;
but she had abandoned velvet in favour of satin, and
the sombre hue of her dress was relieved by gold
cords, which fastened up the flounces, and were cunningly
loiotted roi^nd the sleeves so as to display her
statuesque arms. On her head she wore a single rose
of the deepest red — a colour which contrasted well
with her dark hair, and appeared to bring out still
more warmly the warm tone of her complexion. She
might well have been an Italian, and even among
those southern beauties she would have borne away
the palm. But, then, the short nose, slightly tip-tilted,
and the arch curve of the lip showed that she
was no Roman beauty, while the full form, the rounded
arms, and graceful curves of her figure were a pleasing

49—2 .

contrast to the Portinese ladies, who were nearly all
either skinny or obese. They felt themselves eclipsed
when she swept through the rooms. Even the representatives
of the English colony suffered by comparison.
Poor Edith, though handsomely dressed in blue-silk
and white lace, looked colourless and insignificant,
while Clara's pure Saxon style became angular, and
the two or three winter birds who had remained behind
for the ball appeared almost vulgar.

Of course the men eagerly begged Alma for dances ;
but Konald had met her at the door, and asked for
as many as he dared. The others had to be content
to divide the few that remained, and Lady Redbourne
gave them one each, so as not to cause any jealousy.

George Stent also presented himself. George was
not insensible to female charms, particularly if their
possessor was a lady of title. And, besides, he would
not be carrying out his programme if he did not take
every opportunity of becoming acquainted with the

fascinating American. But George was slow, and not
very attractive, so he was relegated to a very distant
dance, while Konald whisked away with his arm round
Alma's slender waist. He Watched them whirling
through the throng, and a grim gleam of pleasure
lighted up his fishy eyes.

I shall catch them out to-night,' he said to himself.
I won't dance with anyone, so as to have a chance of
spotting them.'

Alma was one of those perfect dancers, of whom a
man does not meet more than two or three in a
lifetime. Gifted with an excellent ear, lithe limbs, and
a, sound constitution, her little feet were well able to
support her, while they always kept time to the music.
She never leant unduly on her partner, and yet she
submitted herself entirely to his guidance. She was
not one of the otherwise excellent dancers who want
to steer themselves, and who are therefore often
struggling to go one way when their partner wants to

go another. Thoroughly well balanced, her small,,
classical head slightly inclined, her hand just touching,
but not pressing, her partner's shoulder, she
floated round the room without an effort. It was not
the first time, by very many, that she had danced
with Ronald ; but probably she had never danced with
him on so smooth a floor and in such ample space.
The warm colour which mantled her cheek and the
sparkle of her dark eyes proved her enjoyment. It
vas no wonder that after being dragged about the
room clumsily by a young member of the English
club, after having been dashed across it half-a-dozen
time by over-zealous Italians, and after having her
toes trodden on by the awkward Danish Consul, who
thought himself irresistible, she gladly returned to
Ronald's strong arm, even step, and careful guidance.

There could be nothing improper, she thought, in
dancing a few times with so old a friend, and one who,
besides his other qualifications, was so excellent a

dancer. There could be the less in it that Lady Redbourne
took care to talk to Edith whenever she had a
respite from the numerous candidates for her hand,
and that Ronald himself went back to his wife several
times when he was not dancing. Probably Edith did
not notice that he danced with no one but Alma.

At supper Lady Redbourne chose a chair at a small
table where two seats were already occupied by Edith
and her partner, and the party was so merry and
seemed to be so unreservedly happy that George
Stent, who Alas, of course, observing matters from a
comparatively short distance, began to have serious
misgivings.

Perhaps there might, after all, be nothing in it-perhaps
the flirtation of many years ago had matured
in a way not at all usual for flirtations, and had become
changed into the sound fruit of solid friendship.

To judge by Edith's candid laugh, by Lady Redbourne's
frank smile, and by Ronald's sallies, which

seemed to amuse them both equally, any impartial
person would have declared that they were all very
good friends and nothing more. Very narrowly did
these fish-like eyes watch the all-unconscious quartette
from the nearest recess; but no lynx could detect
any shadow of suspicion in Edith's fair face, nor any
Covert glance from Alma to Konald, nor any gleam of
ally thought but that of honest enjoyment in Ronald's
voice. Soon the spy saw that he was wasting his
time, and turned his attention to the excellent supper
which he had hitherto neglected. But, though baffled,
he was not defeated, and would not yet accept so simple
a solution of the problem.

Lady Redbourne was now claimed by an Italian
duke, and Ronald accompanied his wife back to the
dancing-room. Finding that she was disengaged, he
actually danced the next waltz with her — a sight which
made the Portinese exclaim, ' Ecco V animate delta sua
moglie' while Mrs. Lascelles almost shed a tear over

the happiness of her children. Edith also danced
Avell ; but since her marriage she had lost her girlish
lightness, and there was no poetry of motion in her
steps. Still they went round admirably together, and
would have gone fairly even if Edith had not been
naturally a good dancer; for Ronald was always
able to fall into his partner's step, and clumsy girls
seemed to move gracefully when he had his arm round
their waists.

It was a little attention which charmed Edith,
hind would have made her quite happy if she had not
been thoroughly happy before. She had not enjoyed
tiny ball so much since they were married, and she
would at that moment almost have declared that she
loved George Stent — the only being for whom in truth
she entertained the most entire aversion, because he
had come between her and Ronald.

The room was becoming very hot, notwithstanding
the open windows; the tiny particles of dust and

starch from the ladies' dresses filled the air, and made
it oppressive. The scents of the flowers and the
various perfumes added to the closeness. After a soft
dreamy waltz, which they had kept up from the
beginning to the end, Ronald led his partner out ta
the terrace, picking up her cloak as he passed
her seat, and carefully throwing it over her fair
shoulders.

How delicious it is here,' said Alma.

Are you sure you will not catch cold ?' he inquired.


Oh no ! It is perfectly delightful after that stuffy
ball-room.'

I have never danced with anyone like you !' said

Ronald impulsively.

Hush !' she cried. ' No compliments, please.'

How well we get on together I' he went on ; ' we

never stopped all through that waltz, and yet I am

not a bit tired. Are you ?'

No she answered. ' You dance just as well as
ever — better, I think. But it is a relief to get out of
that crowded room.'

'Yes, indeed,' said he. 'Come and look into the
little garden. They are very proud of it, though, of
course, it is only a tiny place ; but they have laid it
out in English fashion, and think so much of it. You
will please the signora if you talk of it when you
call.'

Wait a minute,' replied Lady Redbourne, holding
her card up to catch the light of one of the Chinese
lanterns. ' Let me see to whom I am engaged for the
next dance.' After a pause she added, ' I cannot
make out the man's name. Can you, Ronald ? I
don't want to be rude to these people ; they have all
been so very kind to me.'

" G. S.," ' exclaimed Ronald. ' That's my precious
brother-in-law. Never mind him ; come along.'

*I do not mind throwing him over in the least, ^

said Alma, placing her beautiful arm within his ; * he
deserves all the snubbing we can give him.'

They descended the steps into the garden. The
moon still shed her silvery beams on the soft scene,
casting black shadows from the trees, yet lighting up
distant corners almost as brightly as day. They walked
silently round the croquet-ground, listening to the
strains of music which floated from the house, watching
the forms which flitted past the garish light
streaming from the windows, and, yielding involuntarily
to the soft influence of the Italian night, their hearts
beating almost audibly — perhaps from the excitement
of the last prolonged dance, Ronald pressed his companion's
arm closer to his side. He turned into the
shrubbery— into a walk bordered on either side by
dense laurels, which almost met over their heads.
Only little flashes of moonlight penetrated these recesses,
and shone on the path here and there like
spots of silver.

Alma's soft breath fanned his cheek. ' Are you
tired V he whispered. A low voice, almost a whisper,
seemed commanded in this retired nook.

Just a little now,' she answered faintly, her head
inclining towards him.

He drew her towards a bench. * Let us sit down,*
he said. * You want a little rest, after all this
dancing.' \

How it came about Ronald could not have told,
nor Alma ; but his arm clasped her waist, and drew
her down on the seat beside him, and then naturally,
as if it could not have been otherwise, the arm was
all at once round her neck, and her soft cheek touched
his beard.

Darling I my only love !' he whispered ; and their
lips met in a long passionate kiss.

The last strains of the polka died away, and when
the music ceased Alma started up.^^

Good heavens !' she cried, ' what would Edith say ?

How wicked and vile of me ! She may have seen us.
Let us go in at once.'

Ronald rose to his feet, and silently gave her his
arm.

^ Do not be afraid he said. ' No one could possibly
see us ; and I certainly will not tell Edith,'

But I shall be ashamed even to look into her face
again ! Oh, Ronald, Ronald, how wretched I am !'

It is a beautiful trait in the really loving woman
that, when she errs, she always accuses herself and
never her lover. She takes the whole blame on herself
: he remains her immaculate lover, even though
he may have been in truth by far the more guilty.
But this generosity and this faith only last as long
tis he loves her.

Dearest Alma,' whispered Ronald, 'blame me, blame
our hearts ; do not blame yourself. You have only
pillowed me to kiss you ; that is nothing very terrible.'

Oh ! it is so dreadfully treacherous of me ! Come

in at once. I Avill not remain out a moment longer.
And supposing anyone had seen us !'

No one did said lie firmly ; and they stepped on
the lawn to return to the terrace. But, even as he
spoke, his nostrils caught a faint whiff of tobacco.
Someone has come here to smoke,' he thought ; but
he did not mention the circumstance, as Alma had
not noticed it.

Ashen shall I see you again ?' he whispered, as
they ascended the steps.

You must not see me again,' she answered firmly.
"^ I am going next week, and to-night it must be goodbye
for good !' Then she moved swiftly into the ballroom.


TWO Warnings.

On the day but one after Teresina's Averting, Ronald
rang the bell at the Villa Palmieri at Lady Redbourne's
usual tea-hour.

No contrary orders having been given to the
servants, he was shown into the boudoir.

Alma was alone. She looked pale and unhappy,
but extended her hand to him.

'You ought not to have come. Have you forgotten
your wife V

Ronald did not answer the question.

The Laodicea has arrived he said.

I know. We sail on Tuesday at latest ; on Monday
night, if she can be got ready.'

And to-day is Friday !' exclaimed Ronald. ' And
you would have had me sit quietly at home and not
come near you, when in so short a time we shall be
separated for months — perhaps for years.'

It must be so,' said Alma. ' Surely there is no
need for me to tell you that we cannot meet again ?'

Darling, you cannot undo the past, even if you
would !' he cried, seizing her hand and covering it
with kisses.

She withdrew it, although her rising colour betrayed
the inward struggle.

Do not be so cruel as to remind me of my weakness,
Ronald. It is not generous — it is not even
manly.'

You cannot pretend that you do not love me,
Alma ! And you are aware that I have struggled for
years to stamp out my love for you, and have not
succeeded !'

Oh, Ronald, pray be calm, and listen 1' said Alma,
VOL. III. 50

imploringly. ' You know how wrong and dreadful all
this is ! You know that you are committing a cruel
sin against your poor wife '

I know ail that !' he interrupted. ' I know all you
would say. Of course, I do not pretend that it is
right. But you are not doing Edith any harm. She
is a dear, good creature, and I have tried for five long
years to love her, and have been a good husband to
her, but it is of no use '

It must be of use 1' said Alma. ' Poor Edith ! How-dare
you tell me that you love me when you think of
her and your sweet children V

She covered her face with her hands.

Eonald had it on his lips to reply that she had herself
allowed him on two separate occasions to do that
which she now seemed to consider almost an insult.
But he checked himself in time. He felt that it would
be brutal to use her weakness as a weapon against her.
He was silent for a few moments.

Dear Alma !' he said at last, kneeling down before
her, and taking her hands, * you are right, of course,
and I am wrong and altogether wicked. But it is so
terribly difficult to do my duty, and never to see your
beautiful face again '

Ronald !' she interrupted, ' do you think I have
been particularly happy all these years with poor Lord
Redbourne ?'

Into, indeed !' he answered. ' I know you have
suffered more than I have — far more. But it does
seem hard, after your suffering and all my struggles,
that we should be separated for ever 1 God ! how
can I live, knowing that those dark eyes will never
look into mine again, that that smile will be seen by
others, and bewitch them, but that / shall never see
it ? Alma, my darling ! — my love ! — you can bear it,
perhaps, because you are stronger and better than
I am, and because your love is not so great as
mine.'

50-2

He relinquished her hands and bent his head,
crushed down before her in the agony of his
pain.

Poor boy !' she said, gently laying her hand on his
curly hair. ' Poor Ronald ! I did not know that it
was so bad as all that ! You must be strong and
brave, and overcome it; and if you cannot get over this
wild fancy, you must bear your cross. You are not
the only one who has grievous troubles.' He did not
move. After a pause she went on : ' I have been
weak and foolish also — carried away by the impulse
of the moment. I repent it bitterly, and I will not do
anything to injure your good wife. Ronald, help me
to be brave. Do not let me have to fight the battle
for both of us. Dear Ronald, recollect I am a weak
woman, almost alone in the world, for I cannot count
my husband as a protector.'

He rose to his feet. There were tears in his eyes —
bitter tears which nothing short of the agony of his

soul could have made him shed. In a hopeless,
dejected tone he said :

I will do my best, Alma. Do you mean that weare
to part like this V

We must, Ronald. It is our duty.'

I never hated duty so much as I do now !' he
exclaimed, desperately. ' I love you so that I feel I
would give not my life alone, but my very soul, for
your sake, and I am coldly reminded of my duty !
Will you run away with me, darling, and forget the
whole world with me V

Alma was gradually becoming exhausted with the
struggle. She had nerved herself to it, and had
fought valiantly, speaking in as calm a voice as she
could muster, and bravely trampling on her own feelings.
But she was getting tired, and her nerves
threatened to give way altogether. She had still
strength enough to rise. In a weak voice she
said:

Konald, I thought better of you. I must not stop
to Hasten to you any more.'

She moved towards the door.

Stay !' he cried. * One moment. I will be calm,
and do all you Lavish, I will never give way in this
manner again; I am ashamed of myself! Forgive
me.'

She gave him her hand.

Good-bye,' she whispered.

He kissed it.

Alma, dear, grant me one last request he said
imploringly, in a tone soft and tender and persuasive.
Let me see you once again before you go !'

It is better not,' she answered.

Once only — for the very last time!' he went on. 'I
will obey you entirely if you will only meet me once
more.'

Well, I ought not,' she again said.

Surely it is no crime to take leave of an old friend

whom you will probably never see again,' urged
Ronald. ' Let me see you on Monday.'

Lord Redbourne will go on board on Monday, and
the servants will be moving our things, and everything
in a mess. You cannot come here.'

All the better !' exclaimed he. ' Let me drive you
out to Bagnuoli on Monday afternoon. You have
never been there, and you ought not to leave Portino
without seeing it.'

What would Edith say ?' asked Lady Redbourne,
weakening.

She would not mind, even if she knew it,' answered
Ronald. ' I will call for you at three o'clock, and we
shall be back by half-past six.'

Mind,' said Alma, unable to resist, ' I must be onboard
before dark.'

'Oh yes, I will take care of that,' he answered,
kissing her hand. ' You will be quite safe. You may
trust me.'

Perhaps Ronald would have kissed her lips ; but
saying, ' I feel that I ought not, but I cannot help it
Good-bye for to-day,' Alma slipped out of the room.

Ronald descended the stairs slowly, and with bowed
head turned on his homeward way. Perhaps, even if
he had walked erect, and looked round, he would not
have noticed a figure almost entirely concealed behind
the oleanders, of which clumps dotted the garden.
When his retreating steps were no longer heard, a
head was cautiously popped out from the screen
of a shrub, and quickly withdrawn, as two of the
servants were standing under the portico. By-and-by
they had finished their airing and their talk,
and the door closed. Then the head reappeared, and,
seeing that the coast was clear, was soon followed by
a body. The person to whom body and head belonged
dodged carefully from one clump of oleanders to the
next, till the gate was reached, when it turned bravely
and walked up the straight drive to the door, and

rang the bell. In answer to the visitor's inquiry for
Lady Redbourne, the servant replied that her ladyship
was not well enough to receive.

Now,' said George Stent to himself, after he had
delivered half a pack of cards, ' if anything comes of
this, they will not be able to say that I was spying. I
called here in open day, and left my card. It happened
that I saw Ronald go in an hour back, and I
waited for him to come out. That was all. Of course
they are as thick as thieves. Anybody but that little
fool Edith would have found it out ages ago. Now
what must be the next move V

And Mr. Stent walked slowly towards the town,
avoiding the broad Marina, which was full of people,
and seeking out quiet byways where he could weigh
pro's and cones in his mind without fear of interruption.
When he was near the Consulate, he turned to
the right, through some of the narrowest and least
cleanly streets of the old town. After pursuing a

devious course, he stopped before a small shop, where a
few packets of steel pens, some poor engravings of the
Virgin and the Saints, a large quantity of beads and
crosses, and various dirty little pamphlets decorated
the tiny window. He looked at the place carefully.
This will do,' thought he.

Entering the shop, he asked, in the best Italian he
could muster, for pens, paper, and envelopes. They
were supplied, and, to the astonishment of the old
woman who kept the establishment, the signore did
not offer her one-half of what she asked, but paid
her about six times the value of the wretched articles
without demur, and departed.

George Stent walked home by another circuitous
route, and proceeded at once to his dressing-room,
where he sat down to write on the bad paper he had
just purchased. Most people take off their gloves
before writing a letter, but he did exactly the reverse.
He turned over several pair, and selected the newest

and tightest. Glowing his right hand, he buttoned it
carefully, so that the hand was cramped and stiff.
He then wrote two letters, enclosed them in envelopes,
and wrapped up the pens in what remained of the
paper. He stuck a five-centime stamp on each letter,
being careful to affix the stamp in the left-hand
corner all awry. Then he descended the stairs, and
walked round the corner to the nearest letter-box,
dropping his parcel over the wall of the Marina by the
way.

Next morning Ronald was in the dining-room before
Edith, and was reading the newspaper when she
entered, and, having made the tea, proceeded to open
her letters. Suddenly she uttered a cry, and turned
pale.

AVhat is the matter ?' asked Ronald, looking up.

Nothing, dear,' answered Edith, with an effort.

Tell me, Edith ! There must have been something
to frighten you.'

I was startled for a minute ; but it is nothing,'
she replied.

What startled you ? Something in your
letter ?'

No — that is, yes,' said Edith hesitatingly. ' I was
a little surprised; that is all.'

A wretched begging letter, I am sure, with a
horrible tale of woe which does not exist ? I thought
I saw a suspicious scrawl lying on the table.'

Yes,' answered she, seizins the su^^fs^estion, ' a
nasty, sickening, begging letter. I won't think anymore
about it.'

'Don't,' said Eonald, approvingly. 'I never let
these stories affect me ; I know my Portinese too well.
They are wonderful people at fiction.'

Is it always fiction ?' asked Edith.

In nineteen cases out pf twenty. But pass me the
letter, and I will tell you what I think about it.'

No,' said Edith, tearing it into little pieces; ' it is

too horrid. I won't think about it myself, and I
had rather you did not.*

'Very well,' assented Ronald, not attaching the
slightest importance to the matter. * By all means
treat it with silent contempt.'

Edith had torn up the letter,, but it was not easy to
dismiss its contents from her mind. They were as
follows, written in very bad Italian, which she had
been too agitated to examine closely, so that she
attributed the bad grammar and spelling rather to
an ignorant native than to an educated man writing
in a foreign tongue :

Keep your eyes on your husband ! Do you not
see that he is madly in love with the beautiful
American lady ?

A Friend.'

Anonymous letters are, of course, despicable
weapons, of which no one should take an}^ notice.

But, though the weapons be despicable, they sometimes
inflict a severe wound ; and, argue with herself
as she would, Edith could not treat these lines with
the contempt they deserved. There might be no
foundation for the statement made ; but it was evident
that Ronald's attentions to Lady Redbourne must have
attracted some notice in Portino for any one, however
wicked and slanderous, to make the statement at all.
And she could not forget that her husband had once
been really in love with the beautiful peeress — not
perhaps madly, but sufficiently to rave about her in
his delirium, and to call for her in the wanderings of
his uncontrolled mind. Possibly the love had grownup
again, and she had taken a serpent to her bosom
when she received this woman as her friend. She
resolved to be watchful, though she reproached herself
for the resolve, and felt shabby and mean about it.

Summoning all her self-control, she spoke to her
husband in a perfectly calm voice :

'Do you know when Lady Redbourne leaves,
dear ?'

Ronald was taken by surprise, because he, too, had
been at that moment thinking of Lady Redbourne,
and wondering whether he could not manage to see
her some time during the day, if it were only for a
minute. He was a very bad hypocrite, and could
not repress a slight flush as he answered hesitatingly
:

I believe the yacht is to sail on Monday or
Tuesday.'

Then I will call to-day to bid her good-bye,' said
Edith, still looking at him, and herself feeling quite
as guilty as he did, only from very different motives.

Very well, dear,' replied Ronald, mentally deciding
that he would not call till after his wife, if he called
at all — a matter on which he had not yet made up
his mind.

That the morning was not quite a happy one for

either, may well be assumed. Edith was full of fears
and suspicions which she was ashamed of confessing
even to herself ; while Konald was tortured with self-reproaches
which he dismissed only by telling himself
that the fair enchantress would be gone in three days,
and that then he would endeavour to forget her. As
honos as she was at Portino she acted on him like a
magnet on steel : he could not keep away from her.
He went to the shops where he thought it likely that
she would make some last purchases, and, failing to
find her, he stood smoking a cigarette under the
portico of the Casino Nobile — a most unusual lounge
for Ronald, and one he selected only in the hope that
he might see Lady Redbourne's carriage. Here also
he was disappointed ; but on walking back he caught
sight of the well-known livery. The carriage was
turning out of the yore cocMre of the Palazzo Woodall.
He crossed the piazza rapidly, and held up his hand
to the coachman, who at once pulled up. As the

carriage stopped, a rough lazzarone in tattered garments,
who had been having a ride behind, stepped
off and approached him.

I have been calling on Edith to say good-bye,' said
Lady Redboume, shaking hands, while Ronald waved
off with his left the importunate fellow who was
soliciting alms.

She has driven round to the Villa for the same
purpose,' he answered. 'She will be sorry to have
missed you ; but I am so glad. I was wondering how
I should possibly see you to-day !'

You will have to do many days without seeing me,'
said Alma, smiling rather sadly.

Indeed I know it only too well. I cannot
imagine how I shall live at all. Ecco, ma va via
subito,' he added, tossing the beggar a half-franc
piece.

The man thanked him and walked off; but he did
not go far — only to the arcade on the opposite side of
VOL. III. 51

the piazza. Here he curled himself up in the sun,
and kept his black beady eyes steadily fixed on the
carriage.

You will get on somehow, Ronald said Lady Redbourne.
* You must get on ; you must not think of
me again after next Monday.'

It is all very well to say I must not,' he replied.
But I cannot help it. Your smile is everything tome
now. I almost feel as if I could well exist without
food altogether, if I could only see you for five
minutes daily.'

Alma laughed. ' You would not stand that allowance
long !' she said.

No ; of course our wretched bodies are always in
the way. But all my sunshine will be gone when the
Laodicea sails. Alma.'

It will come back, Ronald. It must surely come
back, if you do your duty to Edith. But you must
not stand talking to me here, for all Portino to stare

at us. Please tell the coachman to drive on to
Donati's.'

Konald clasped her hand, but he did not give the
order.

I cannot wait till Monday,' he said, ' knowing that
Monday will be the last time. I shall come into your
garden to-night, towards nine. I shall hope to see
you.'

Don't, Ronald dear!' she exclaimed. 'The servants
or some one will be sure to catch sight of you ; and,
besides, think of Edith.'

Nobody shall see me,' replied he, taking no notice
of her last remark ; ' and if you do not come out, I
shall have the satisfaction, at any rate, of seeing your
shadow flit across the window. Alma!' he cried,
warmly, ' you do not know what it is to love as I do.'

Go now — go at once,' she said, ' or I will not meet
you on Monday.'

Konald fell back, raised his hat, and the carriage

51—2

rolled away. The beggar under the arcade uncurled
himself and swiftly sneaked along the houses. Konald
did not see him, for his eyes were fixed on the retreating
carriage. When it had swept round the corner,
he turned into the house with a deep sigh.

LORD Melbourne AT HOME.

Lord Redbourne often had very disreputable people
to visit him at the Villa Palmieri, but he had never
had such queer company as on this Saturday. The
morning's letters were always brought to his lordship
in bed, and to-day was no exception to the rule.
Dr. Allen was in the habit of coming in with the
chocolate to inquire after the invalid, and was
generally requested to stop and read some of the
letters to him. But when the doctor came in to-day,
he was abruptly dismissed, and Lord Redbourne had
a long conference with his valet. The valet then went
off into the town, saying that he had been sent on an
errand.

An hour later a certain Cimari appeared — a gentleman
who had come over occasionally before with
other persons of both sexes and of more than doubtful
reputation. Dr. Allen knew the man as a
gamester without means — a creature who was employed
in every possible capacity except an honourable
one. In former times there were many such in
Portino ; even now there are still some left. He was
an advocate by profession, but had lost the right to
appear before the courts in consequence of some disgraceful
transaction or other. He kept what he
termed an agency — an establishment where he gave
legal or illegal advice to people not much better and
only more ignorant than himself. He knew all the
usurers in Portino, and was occasionally sought for in
the small hours of the morning by youths who had
lost more than they could pay at the Casino, and
wanted a loan in a hurry. He had no money himself,
but could find it, on terms, when he chose to trv.

When he discovered a pigeon, he was not above
teaching him carte, and haunted the fashionable
cafes for the purpose. At a pinch, when business
was bad, he would write petitions to Government for
fifty centimes each, or begging letters for less money.
Anything was fish that came to his net, and, as he
was always fairly well dressed and knew how to put
on the manners of a gentleman, he was seldom
reduced to inactivity from want of work. Almost
as soon as Lord Redbourne had taken the Villa, he
had had the audacity to send in his card and offer his
services ' for anything his lordship required.' To-day
his lordship did require him, and the Cavaliers Cimari
descended the broad steps of the Villa with a smile on
his face. Seldom had he made so good a coup as
to-day.

Soon after his departure Lord Redbourne sent for
his doctor, and, after some conversation on the subject
of his health, remarked that he wished to engagea

couple of Italians for the Laodicea, and had told
Cimari to look for some.

'But surely your English crew is sufficient, my
lord ?' observed Allen.

I want to cruise about a little in Sicilian waters'
he replied. ' It will not hurt me, will it, Allen ?'

I should think not,' replied the doctor.

That is what I wanted to ask you,' continued Lord
Redbourne. ' I don't wish to sail home at once. It's
too early to go to any French seaside place yet, and
you say I must not stop in London.'

Certainly not,' said Allen.

So you all say, and I believe you're all fools,'
remarked his lordship politely. ' But I cannot do
without you, worse luck.'

'You know you are never well in London, my
lord.'

Oh, I know — I know. Anyhow, I'm not wanting
to go there just now. What do you think of a trip

over to Palermo, and going to see the Lipari Islands ?
They say they're very curious.'

I think it would be a charming idea,' said Allen,
much surprised that Lord Redbourne, who never
cared about the beauties of nature, should suddenly
suggest a cruise on which he would certainly not
meet the lively company of which he was so very
fond.

Exactly,' continued he. * Well, Osborne knows
nothing of that part of the world, so I want a couple
of fellows as pilots, and I've sent for them.'

I should not have thought that Cimari was quite
the man to find trustworthy seamen,' suggested
Allen.

Oh, he knows everything and everybody. Don't
be afraid of }' our precious carcase, Allen. They could
not drown us without drowning themselves, you
know. Cimari won't choose idiots.'

I hope not,' said Allen.

At that moment the valet entered.

There are two rough-looking men outside, my
lord, who wish to speak to you.'

Oh !' exclaimed Lord Redbourne, ' Cimari has
not been long. Show them in, George — show
them in.'

They are very queer customers, my lord — all in
rags, if I may take the liberty of saying so.'

Confound you, show them in, I say ! You don't
expect Italian sailors to walk about in my best coats,
like you do, do you ?'

This was cruel to George, who never wore his
master's coats till they were discarded by his lordship.
So he marched the two men into the room, which
they entered with their red caps in their hands,
bowing almost to the ground. One was a man of
about forty, with a thick dark beard slightly silvered,
a mass of black hair matted together on his large
head, bushy eyebrows, and black bead-like eyes under

them. This was the most ragged of the two. It
would have been impossible to say what was the
nature of his garment. The other, whose clothes
still held together, was a younger man, with an almost
smooth face. He was very slightly built, had a long
thin nose, narrow eyes, and a retreating forehead.
Dr. Allen stared at them. They did not look like
decent seafaring men at all ; still less like efficient
pilots.

'Cut away, Allen, and go and look after your
beastly drugs said his lordship. ' Hi !^ he exclaimed,
before the doctor closed the door, ' bring some pastilles,
or some stuff to bum while these beggars are
here. They don't exactly smell nice.'

Allen obeyed wonderingly, and retired. Why on
earth should Lord Redbourne wish to engage the
men himself, and talk to them in private, instead of
leaving it all to Osborne, his sailing-master ? Perhaps
because Osborne knew little of Italian, while his

lordship was a perfect master of the language. But,
then, why turn him, the confidential doctor, out of
the room ? He could only shrug his shoulders and
go for a walk.

That evening, at dinner, his lordship made himself
particularly agreeable. He was a man who, in his
long and dissipated life, had seen much of the world,
and still remembered much of what he had seen.
When he liked, and when he could keep his temper
under control, he could be extremely amusing.
Before they were married Alma had only seen him
at his best She knew he was getting old, and that
his health was not strong ; but she had not regarded
him with any special aversion, and had had no idea of
his temper nor of his tastes. Had it been otherwise,
she would not have married him even under compulsion.
To-night, almost for the first time for six years.
Lord Redbourne talked very pleasantly, in a lively
and entertaining manner, telling her anecdotes, some

of which were perhaps rather highly spiced, but
which Alma was willing enough to hear instead of the
usual growling, grumbling, and oaths. He asked
about the friends she had made at Portino, and
regretted that his health had not enabled him to goto
the great ball at Donati's, of which he had heard so
much.

But,' he added, * thanks to our good doctor here' —
this with a gracious gesture to Allen — ' I am so much
better, that next winter I really hope to go out a little
again in society.'

Allen was surprised. But when the old invalid
went on to say, ' It will be a proud moment for me to
be able to enter a crowded room with yov. on my arm,
Alma,' and accompanied this polite speech with a
suave smile, his wife's surprise was as great as the
doctor's.

When dinner was over, Lord Redbourne said :

Allen, do you think it would hurt me to smoke

a cigarette in her ladyship's sitting-room, instead of
going upstairs as usual ?'

Certainly not, my lord.'

Well, then, my dear,' he continued, rising from the
table, on which he was obliged to rest both hands, ' if
you will give me your arm to-night I will go into the
drawing-room.'

Of course, Lady Redbourne came to his side at
once. He always left the table with the doctor's help.
He had not aslv^d her for her arm for years. He now
clutched it so violently that she almost shrieked with
pain. Limping along the wide, marble-paved passage,
he looked up into her face.

You did not expect the old man to walk about
again like this, did you ?' he asked.

I am very glad,' muttered Alma.

So am I — very,' he answered in a hard tone. ' I am
lame, but I'm not quite blind yet — not quite bUnd.'

The invalid was made comfortable in the drawings

which he had not entered once since they occupied
the Villa. He continued to converse on indifferent
subjects.

We shall be on board on Monday,' he said, after
a time.

I suppose so,' answered Alma, not knowing what
else to say.

You will be sorry to leave this place, I suppose ?'
he asked, looking at her again sharply.

Not particularly,' she replied. ' Everyone is going
away now''

Yes ; getting too d— d hot !' he said, as if forgetting
himself. ' Too hot for you and me, anyhow,'
he added significantly.

What on earth was his object ? He evidently had
some hidden meaning or other, but Alma could not
make out what it was.

Have you an English paper here ?' asked Lord
Melbourne.

Yes. There is the Times, and the Illustrated, and
Truth' she replied.

Truth ? Ah, read me the gossipy part of Truth,'
he said. * I like it.'

She obeyed at once. At that moment the clock
struck nine. She began to read as steadily as she
could, but her eyes wandered towards the open
window, against her will, into the moonlit garden
beyond. She read on and on, and every time she
made a pause between the paragraphs she fancied she
could see a dim figure moving about among the
oleander bushes outside. Ronald would be there,
waiting for some sign from her, and she was tied to
the invalid's chair. She began stumbling and making
mistakes. She now felt sure that she heard footsteps
on the path. Her nervousness increased till she could
hardly see the printed words. Would Lord Redbourne
not go to sleep, or return to his room, as
usual ? No. He was quite wide awake, and appeared

to be listening attentively. His cold grey eyes were
fixed on her, and she positively shivered under their
gaze. Again she heard the footsteps, and this time
they appeared to approach the window. She could
stand it no longer.

I beg your pardon, Redbourne !' she suddenly
exclaimed. ' Excuse me for a moment.'

She threw down the paper and darted from the
room. Passing swiftly across the hall, she entered a
small anteroom, of which the windows also looked
towards the garden, but not on the same side as those
of the drawing-room. She tore it open, and ran across
the grass to the other side. Ronald saw the white
figure flying along, and, emerging from the sheltering
shade of an oleander, caught her in his arms.
She pushed him back as he kissed her.
Go at once !' she whispered. ' He is in the ,
and can see and hear everything.'
He ! Who ?' asked Ronald, astonished.
VOL. III. 52

My husband. He has taken a fancy to stop downstairs
to-night. Go at once. I heard your steps on
the path distinctly.'

Why, I have never left this bush said Ronald, ina
low voice.

'Then I suppose it must have been fancy. I
thought I heard footsteps distinctly several times.
But you must go. I cannot stop a moment. Only
think, if you were seen here at this hour of the
night !'

'Then good-night, sweet,' he whispered, pressing
his lips to hers. ' Remember Monday afternoon !'

If Lord Redbourne goes on board, as he says,' she
answered ; ' not otherwise. Now go.'

I hope he will. I will have the carriage in the
Via Carpeting at three.'

Go — go !' repeated Alma hastily. ' Good-night'

Then she flew back the way she had come.

When she returned to the drawing-room, with.

beating heart and heaving bosom, Lord Redbourne
asked in a gentle voice, which was not in harmony
with the sharp glance of his steel-grey eyes :

What was the matter. Alma ? You seem
excited.'

I — I felt rather faint,' stammered she. ' I had to
go to my room.'

I am sorry to hear it. No doubt it is getting hot
in this place — very hot. Mrs. Hardy was wise to go,
but I wish she were here now. You had better see
Allen, my dear.'

Please no,' answered Alma, blushing scarlet. ' It
is passing off. I shall be all right directly.'

Ring the bell, please ; I am tired.'

She did so, and the doctor was summoned to help
his lordship upstairs. But he insisted on Alma
retiring first.

Lady Redbourne has had a strange sort of attack,'
he said to Allen. ' I think Portino does not quite

52—2

agree with her Give her some sal-volatile, or something,
and see her safely into her room.'

Notwithstanding her protestations, she had to
comply with these directions. Upstairs she said to
Allen :

What is the matter with Lord Redbourne ? I
have never seen him like this before.'

Nor have I,' answered Allen. * In health he seems
really better. But I cannot make out his conduct.
Just now he was cursing and swearing at Mrs. Hardy
for going away at the wrong hour.'

His amiability to me is beyond my comprehension,'
said Alma, with a bitter smile.

See the house properly locked up, Allen,' said his
lordship, when Allen returned to him and reported
that Lady Redbourne was quite well and retiring to
rest. ' Every window must be barred, and every
shutter closed. There are often suspicious characters
about this place at night.'

Ronald walked slowly from the garden, keeping as
much as he could behind the shrubs and trees. He
looked back occasionally. Once he fancied that he
saw a shadow moving close by his side, and turned
sharply. But it disappeared before he could make it
out. Then, again, he thought he heard a footstep.
But this, too, must have been fancy, for the garden lay
entirely deserted in the bright moonlight.

BAGNUOLI.

There was a family party at the Consulate on the
Sunday evening. The George Tents were to leave on
a tour to the north of Italy next day, and soon Ronald
and his wife would move to Bagnuoli. Though she
had just parted from her younger daughter, and her
eldest would not remain long with her, Mrs. Lascelles
was perfectly happy and in excellent spirits. For
Teresina had only gone away for a short time, and
would soon be back amongst them with the man
of her choice ; Clara was quietly contented, and still
as much attached to her unattractive husband as
when they were first married ; Ronald, her first-born

and undoubtedly her favourite, was respected and
prosperous, living close to her, and fortunate in the
possession of the most perfect woman — according to
Mrs. Lascelles' views — in the whole world. She felt,
not without pride, that much of the family felicity
was, under Providence, due to her own exertions.
She had not, indeed, tried to catch George Stent for
her eldest daughter, but she had discerned what she
considered his sterling qualities under his yellow skin
and fishy eyes, and had done all she could, in a quiet
and unobtrusive way, to induce Clara to forget his
want of beauty and think only of his affection for her
and his excellent position. In this she had had no
difficulty ; but she had worked infinitely harder, as
the reader knows, to effect the alliance between the
houses of Woodall and Lascelles, and her reward was
greater in proportion. To-night she could not look at
those two without feeling her eyes moisten with joy
at their happiness, and satisfaction that she had

created it. Yet on this Sunday evening there was
nothing in the appearance of either Ronald or Edith
to make pleasurable emotions justifiable — except in a
fond mother who looked at her children through rose-coloured
spectacles. Edith was pale and silent ; Ronald
fidgety and distrait. George Stent was watching
them both, gratified to see that his shot had told, but
anxious to be back in his own house, protected by his
clan, before the explosion which he thought was
imminent. Like other conspirators, he did not mind
charging the mine and laying the train, but he preferred
getting out of the way before the concern went
off. Therefore, he was very determined to start the
next morning, and resisted Mr. and Mrs. Lascelles'
urgent requests to stay a few days longer, hy pleading
pressing business in Venice.

Probably, if Ronald had not been so much occupied
by his own thoughts and his own conscience, he
would have noticed his wife's taciturnity and her

depression. But his mind and heart were entirely
absorbed in Lady Redbourne. He was perfectly aware
of the wrong he was committing, and did not for a
moment deceive himself into thinking it right. But
he found innumerable extenuating circumstances
which made his conduct excusable. Lady Redbourne's
great generosity during the crisis, his own
love for her which dated so far back, her imminent
departure and the probability that they would never
meet again, his long struggles against the passion
which devoured him, and his years of fidelity to the
wife whom he respected and admired without loving
all contributed to make him consider that, after
all, it Alas a very venial offence to meet Alma fora
couple of hours, to exchange a few loving words,
and to lay up a tiny store of consolation, a sweet
memory to look back upon, for the many weary
years of separation which must follow.

Edith simply hoped for the best, without being able

to trust. She would have been ashamed to take the
slightest action on the anonymous letter she had
received, and she knew of nothing to corroborate the
statement it contained, except Ronald's evident unhappiness.
A sickening fear seized her once or twice
that they might be planning an elopement, and that
the warning was a genuine one from some friend who
wished her to prevent it. But how could she ? Nay,
more, if Ronald desired to leave her, would she prevent
it if she could ? But for the two little children,
she would have said ' No !' at once. Her pride came
to her aid. Though the future without her husband
might be a dull, dreary blank, a desert without an
oasis, and only death at the other side, yet she felt
that if he were miserable with her, she would not try
to keep him by her side. And again she was
ashamed. Could five years of a blameless life be thus
wiped off by a wretched anonymous scrawl ? Was it
not disgraceful even to suspect him ? She had had

fears and suspicions before, and they had proved
unfounded. Konald had lived and worked and striven
for her and her children only. If his heart had
strayed against his will, how could she blame him ?
He had not followed its dictates, but had been faithful
through all to duty and to her. Why should she
suppose that he would now throw everything over
which had been holy to him for so many years ? It
was a gross injustice to him even to think of such a
possibility.

She raised her eyes at this moment and met George
Stent's fishy gaze riveted on her. He instantly
looked in another direction, and a slight colour rose to
his yellow cheeks at having been detected in watching
her. That flush was an inspiration. It gave Edith
the key to the riddle. How silly of her not to have
seen it before ! Of course, the whole was a malicious
trick of her brother-in-law. It had not struck her
hitherto. She was too good and pure to suppose that

one on whom Ronald had conferred an incalculable
benefit should repay it by spiteful wickedness. And
even now it seemed impossible, almost absurd. But
women jump to conclusions very rapidly. Often the
conclusions appear to be based on totally insufficient
premisses, but are held fast through thick and thin,
and turn out to be right in the end. On this Sunday
evening Edith would willingly have gone into the
witness-box and sworn that George Stent had written
that anonymous letter. She had not recognised the
hand-writing : there was no apparent motive for it ;
on the contrary, the motives ought to have been all
the other way. Yet she felt sure of her case, and
relieved in proportion. She smiled again, and went
to the piano and played an accompaniment for her
father-in-law, who occasionally tried his family and
his friends by fancy performances on the violin. But
when they all rose to go, and George held out his
hand to her at the door, she gave him a withering

glance of contempt and swept past him without the
slightest acknowledgment. He stood in the doorway,
his hand still outstretched, staring after her, while
Ronald was cloaking her in the hall.

At three o'clock next day a neat little brougham,
with a pair of well-bred chestnuts pawing, and shaking
their heads, was waiting in the quiet Via Carpeting,
one of the stony, steep streets which lead from the
southern suburbs of Portino towards the hills. It is a
thoroughfare not much frequented, except in the early
mornings by a few peasants bringing their produce to
sell to the dwellers in the villas along the shore. It
is crooked, and paved with very rough, uneven stones ;
it runs between white walls, interrupted here and
there by flights of steps leading down to a villa. The
carriage was opposite one of these flights, and at the
foot of the stairs was Ronald, waiting exactly opposite
the gate of the Villa Palmieri. In the morning Dr.
Allen had come to the Bank to take leave, and had

told Ronald that Lord Redbourne was going on board
at once, and would probably sail the next morning at
sunrise. So he knew that there would be no one to
hinder Alma from keeping her tryst, and waited
patiently. Soon his heart gave a great bound, as a
tall, graceful figure, clad in some soft grey stuff,
appeared in the gateway. He rushed out of his
hiding-place with outstretched hands.

Foolish boy !' said Alma, with her sweet smile. • I
ought not to have come. It is very wrong and very
silly. Let me go back.'

No, indeed, darling,' answered he, as he took her
arm and placed it within his own, leading her up the
steep steps. ' I cannot let you go now.'

I am frightened,' said she. ' Lord Redbourne
alarmed me on Saturday. I cannot help thinking
that he is watching us — that he suspects something.'


Nonsense, dear !' exclaimed Ronald. ' He has left

you to do as you please for six years, and he is not
likely to begin worrying now. Besides, we are doing
no harm.'

Oh, Ronald, that is all very well, but you know
that we are. You know that it is quite wicked to
meet in this way, and be afraid of your wife and my
husband.'

He did not reply, but opened the carriage-door,
which they had by that time reached. A ragged man,
with a thick black beard, was lying almost under the
carriage. Ronald did not notice him.

'I am so glad you have brought the brougham,'
said Alma. ' I was afraid it would be the open
carriage, and then all Portino would have known it,
and Edith would hate and despise me.'

No one shall know it, dearest — though, indeed,
there is nothing to be ashamed of. You need not be
anxious about Edith. I am more careful of her
happiness than I am of my own. She shall hear

nothing, nor see nor know anything, to disturb
her.'

I know you are good to her in every respect
except one,' said Aha.

How can I command my heart, Anna ? I have
fought with it for years ; I have struggled and tried
my best to forget you

You spoiled everything last week at M. Donati's,'
said she.

Spoilt ? No ! Because at last my love overflowed
the banks of propriety, and because I told you
what you must have known well already ?'

Indeed, I was not so conceited, dear !' interrupted
Alma. ^ I did not think you cared about me more
than as a pleasant, nice friend.'

My love ! why, my life and my soul have always
been yours !' exclaimed Konald. ' Surely, you could
not suppose I had forgotten you ? — yoii, the most
beautiful woman that has ever been created ! Your

face, your eyes, your sweet mouth have ever been
before me, night and day ; and if I have driven the
visions away by hard work, they have returned again
at the first opportunity.'

Her head dropped on his shoulders, and his arm
encircled her waist.

It is very sweet to be loved like that,' she murmured
; ' but it is so wicked I'

I cannot help it, darling,' said Ronald, kissing her
lips. ' Your years of misery with that old man, my
long years of battle with myself, surely deserve some
reward.'

It is a hard life. But we have no right to this joy
of being together, nor to seek our reward in this way.
I did not intend to come. I made up my mind to be
strong and to resist. If Redbourne had not gone off
so early, I am sure I should have made no effort. But
when he and the Doctor went, and the maids were
busy with packing, I had nothing to do, so — I came.'

VOL. III. 53

I am very glad you did,' replied he warrant. ' If
you had not come, I think I should have walked into
the Villa and fetched you.'

That would have been very foolish, Ronald ; for I
tell you I am sure my husband suspects something,
and is watching us.'

He attempted to show her the unreasonableness of
this idea, but in vain. She had made up her mind
about it, much as Edith had made up her mind about
the authorship of the anonymous letter, on very insufficient
evidence, or, rather, on none at all. Then they
spoke of other things, and their own love, and the
future to which Alma endeavoured to reconcile him.
Of course, she was entirely inconsistent and illogical.
She knew that it was utterly wrong to drive out with
him, to let him kiss her and pet her and adore her ;
and she preached to him, oh ! so earnestly about his
duties to his wife and his children, and how he must
learn to love Edith, and how the first step was to love

no one else, and to forget her immediately, and how
he was neglecting every duty and breaking the laws
of God and man by his present conduct. And he
heard and did not contradict, but let the words go in
at one ear and out at the other ; while he gazed into
her dark ej^es, and watched the varying curves of her
full lips, and the veins visible under the pellucid skin
of her temples, and the long eyelashes sweeping the
soft cheek, and the pure outline of that short nose,
and the graceful turn of her neck, firm and white as
ivory.

They heeded but little the beauties of the road,
the gardens all resplendent with roses, the banks
covered with anemones and wild hyacinths, the woods
bursting into fresh green. Long before they had
said half or a quarter of Avhat was in their hearts to
say, they rattled over the stones of Bagnuoli, and
soon the carriage stopped before the Alberto Grande
the ' Star and Garter ' of the Italian village. It

13—2

was early in the season for visitors, but Ronald had
been careful not to take the hotel folks by surprise.
In a room open to the terrace, overhanging a steep
precipice which fell down sheer to the river Mansion,
now swollen by the melting snow of the Apennines,
tumbling and brawling in its rocky bed, was laid a
cold collation — chicken, salad, cakes, sweets, and,
most attractive of all, a huge basket of fragrant wood-strawberries,
picked on the sunniest slopes of warm
Monte Celino.

From the tiny hotel, perched a thousand feet above
the sea, an enchanting view met Alma's delighted
eyes. Under them the narrow gorge and the foaming
Mansion ; beyond it, on the left, a wooded hill crowned
with the grey ruins of an old robber's castle ; in the
background, the purple slopes of higher mountains ;
and further away still, snowy peaks glistening in the
sunshine. On the right, far below them, white villas,
and walls, and green gardens, and the terraced houses

of Portino seven miles away. Then the blue sea
glittering and sparkling, dotted here and there with
the dark shadows of the islands and tiny white specks
of sails ; over all a May sky — a sky of intense deep blue,
and an atmosphere full of warm tremulous sunshine.

Ronald filled her a goblet of sparkling Asti, and
threw himself on the floor at her feet while she
sipped the perfumed wine, and drank in the beauty of
the scene with her eyes.

It would never have done to leave Portino without
coming here, would it, dear ?' he asked.

No, indeed,' she exclaimed, stroking his curly
head. ' I am glad you brought me. What a wonderful
view !'

Meanwhile, down in the garden, a ragged creature,
with a red nightcap, a dark beard, and black bead-like
eyes, called for a fiasco of the best Valerian and
something to eat, to be brought into one of the many
tiny arbours constructed for the convenience of the

Portinese who wished to escape the heat of the city
for a few hours.

The waiter hesitated to obey. The new-comer did
not look worth four bajocchi, and, therefore, certainly
not capable of paying for a fiasco of their best wine.
He summoned the landlord, who came up with a
swagger, and told the intruder that the Alberto
Grande was not for such as him : he had better go
down to the trattoria, round the corner.
The man laughed.

Davvero,' he said ; ' my dress is not much. Ha
ratione. Ecco F With these words he tossed a
silver five-franc piece on the table, and added, ' Now
make haste. I am thirsty.'

Of course his orders were at once obeyed. He was
a good-natured man, too — one who understood
manners though his clothes were torn and dusty.
For when the landlord himself brought the fiasco, he
invited him to join in drinking it, and began to chat

amicably. They talked of the prospects of the wine
crop, which was showing famous signs of bloom, of
the coming summer, of the chances of a good season,
and of various other interesting matters.

And those beautiful little birds there who came in
that pretty carriage,' said the stranger, when they
had become intimate, 'will they remain long with you ?'

He bent his head significantly towards the terrace.

Oh no !' replied the landlord : ' the cavalier e has
ordered some English tea for five o'clock, and then
they return to Portino.'

Noble forester V inquired the stranger.
The landlord stooped forward to whisper :

'The giovanni is the rich banker of Portino. We
know him very well. As to the lady,' and he shrugged
his shoulders, ' it is not his wife. The signora is a
strange English lady. But, after all, what have noi
altri to say if the gentleman likes to divert himself ?
It is not any concern of ours.'

Of course not assented the other. ' Now, padrone,
I must be off. I have a long way to travel yet. A
rivederla.'

They shook hands like old friends, and the ragged
lazzarone trudged down the Portino road.

Two hours later, when the sun was declining and
the dark shadows were swiftly creeping up from the
valleys to the opposite hillsides, Ronald and Alma
started on their return journey. They had delayed
far longer than she had originally intended. Two
people who love each other, and are about to part for
years, are not watchful of time, nor anxious to hurry
on the hour of separation.

It is getting very late,' said Alma, anxiously, as
she looked at the darkening woods ; ' the sun has set.'

And the sun of my life will set in less than an
hour,' sighed Ronald. ' All that is most precious will
sail in the Laodicea

Do not make it harder for me than it is, Ronald

dear,' said she, laying her hand in his. ' Do you not
know what a battle I have to fight with my heart ?'

I wish you would give it up, and be beaten he
answered.

No, my love, you do not wish that. You would,
I am sure, love me far less if I were to neglect my
duty, and to allow you to forget your wife.'

Indeed not !' he exclaimed. ' I cannot ask you to
sacrifice everything for me — everything that makes
life at all possible for a woman That I cannot do,
because I know that the punishment would be too
dreadful for you to bear, and for me to witness.
But '

You see we are agreed ! There is nothing for us
but to separate for ever, and forget each other — if we
can.'

It is too horrible !' cried he, in agony. ' I cannot
contemplate the possibility. Perhaps it does not
seem so dreadful to you ; but to me it appears that

death would be preferable. Darling, low can you
talk so quietly and calmly of our never meeting again ?'

I must : there is no alternative. If you were not
married, it might be different. Then I should have
no one to think of but you and myself; but now you
have Edith and your children, and your first duty is
to them.'

I know, I knows groaned Ronald ; ' but it looks so
black. It is like a deep night coming on — a night of
cold and chills with no dawn to look forward to. I
am tempted to curse my wife, and those who made me
marry her.'

Hush, hush !' said Alma, placing her hand on his
mouth. ' It was perhaps all for the best, though we
blind mortals cannot see it. Edith is truly lovable.
Can you not try and love her? I should not be
jealous,' she added with a sad smile.

You know I have tried for years, and cannot he
answered.

You must try again ; and as you get older, you will
gradually find out that so clever and good a creature
deserves far more love than I do.'

She deserves every happiness said he. ' I know
she deserves a better husband than I am. But, withall
that, I would sooner live with you, darling, in a
cottage, and break stones all day, knowing that I
should meet your sweet face in the evening, than
dwell with her in the comfort and luxury we possess.'

You are cruel to talk like that, Ronald. You know
it is inevitable. It is impious to despair when your life
should be so pleasant and easy, and you have so much
for which to be thankful. Besides, it is unmanly.'

Unmanly ?' he asked.

Yes. Do you not think that / feel it quite as
deeply ? Oh, Ronald ! you have a charming, amiable
young wife. I have an old husband, whose faults I
dare not even mention. You have two lovely children,
and can look forward to their future, and watch over

them, and see them growing stronger and better
daily. / have nothing to look forward to, except
years of misery. Oh, Ronald ! you should console me
instead of complaining.'

She burst into tears ; and, full of self-reproaches,
Ronald endeavoured to soothe her anguish. It was
long before her sobs ceased, for the pent-up grief was
deep and violent. They felt the brake put on as they
descended the steep hill into the Via Carre tina. It
was quite dark now, and the moon had not yet risen.
Her head was resting on his bosom for the last
time.

You will take me down to the boat, Ronald ?' she
asked.

Will it be waiting ?'

Yes,' she answered. ' They know I have gone out
for the afternoon. I said I would get out of the way
of the packing and dragging things off*. I have
nothing more to do in the house.'

Where will the boat be ?' asked he.

At the steps below the Villa. It was to be there at
seven, so that I should get on board for his lordship's
dinner. What time is it now ?'

Ronald struck a match to look at his watch. It
was already half-past.

I am very late,' she said, ' and I shall get a scolding.
Never mind. It will be the last time that I am
scolded for your sake, and it will not hurt me. Kiss
me, Ronald, kiss me once more. It is the last kiss.
Good-bye, sweetheart. God bless you.^

The brougham drew up at the steps. Ronald helped
Alma out, and led her down through the garden of the
Villa. They found the maid with wraps, and one
of the gigs crew, waiting under the portico.

Make haste,' said Lady Redbourne to them. ' I
have been delayed. Is everything on board ?'

'Everything, my lady. The boat is waiting for
you.'

Silently she took Ronald's arm, and walked down to
the little quay. There was a long pressure of the
hand as he helped her into the boat. Dr. Allen was
sitting in the stern sheets. Ronald was glad that he
had come, as he knew that he would check any gossip.
There was another little boat — an empty one — also
moored to the steps.

That is one of our boats, is it not ?' asked Alma, as
she was sitting down.

Yes,' replied the doctor. ' The two Italians his
lordship has taken as pilots have come ashore for
something or other, and they don't seem to have
come back yet. No doubt they are having a spree
with their friends. All ready, my lady ?'

All ready,' answered Alma, in a low voice.

Ronald stooped over the boat and once more
clasped her hand, whispering :

God bless you. I shall never forget.'

Then the doctor cried

Shove off. Give way.' And five oars plashed into
the water simultaneously. The gig moved swiftly
across the harbour, leaving a phosphorescent path as
she clove the dark flood.

Ronald stood watching her till he could see her no
more, and then he still peered into the darkness, trying
to make her out.

At last he groaned, ^ It is all over !' and slowly
turned homewards through the now-deserted garden
of the Villa Palmieri. He stopped for a few minutes
looking at the house which had held all that was
sweet and precious to him, but was now cold and inanimate
in dead blackness. He tried to nerve himself
for the future, and remembered, with mingled pain
and pride, that she had shown more courage than he.
He walked round the garden, his steps sounding
strangely on the gravel, as if they disturbed the solitude
of a grave. Then, with one last look across the
dark harbour, he set his face for home, and walked

with swift strides along the narrow lane which would
lead him to the Marina.

There were high walls on either side. The Villa
Palmieri was on a promontory some distance below the
wide road which formed the prolongation of the
Marina. Standing under the portico of the Villa, with
your back to the sea, the main road was on the left
front, the steps leading to the Via Carre tina on the
right front, and the narrow lane, which was the
shortest way to Portino, on the extreme left. It
twisted about between the gardens and courtyards of
villas and cottages, and was sparsely lighted at very
long intervals. There was no traffic along this lane,
for it led only from the town to the Villa Palmieri
and a few neighbouring houses, whose tenants had
mostly left on account of the approaching summer.
To most of them there was a better access from the
front. But the lane saved more than a quarter of a
mile, and Ronald had always chosen it for this reason.

and because he was less likely to meet people who
knew him, as it was all but impassable for carriages.
He passed on with quick, long strides, endeavouring to
regain equanimity by physical exertion. Suddenly,
in one of the darkest turns, a man sprang forward and
stopped him with the well-known Portinese form of
petition :

Garitd, signore, 'per V amor chi Bio e della 
Verging.'

Ronald pushed on impatiently, but the man clung
round his knees, repeating the Avoids in an* urgent,
whining voice. He stopped, and put his hand in his
pocket for some small coin. At that moment he felt
a terrible pain from behind — a violent pain which
shot right through his body. He threw up his hands
with a yell. Then everything seemed to turn before his
eyes, he staggered on for a pace or two, seeking support,
which he failed to find, and then fell weltering
in his blood.

VOL. III. 54

THE CRUISE OF THE ' Laodicea

No inquiries were made by Lord Redboiirne, and no
complaint about his wife's late arrival on board. His
lordship's good temper seemed to continue. At eight
o'clock they were dining comfortably in the deck
cabin, which adjoined Lord Redbourne's own stateroom.
He could not have climbed up and down the
companion, and had, therefore, reserved the deck-house
for his own use. Dinner was about half over
when the quartermaster knocked at the door, and
the valet brought a message to his lordship.

The Italian pilots have come on board, my lord.
The captain wished me to tell you.'

All right,' said Lord Redbourne, a cynical smile

lighting up his wrinkled face. ' I will see them by-and-by
in my cabin. Tell Captain Osborne to stand
by for getting under weigh.'

The man touched his cap and disappeared.

Alma was surprised at the sailing orders given, but,
after all, what did it matter to her ? She would spend
the night weeping in her berth, whether in harbour or
at sea. So she raised no objection, but merely asked
Lord Redbourne whether they were going to start at
once.

I think so,' he answered. * I believe we have completed
all our business at Portino. You have all you
want, Allen ?'

Yes, my lord,' replied the doctor.

I know that the steward has,' continued Lord Redbourne,
* and the cook. I was careful to see to that
myself. Osborne is burning to get away. Have you
finished your business. Alma ?'

There was a certain peculiar intonation about the

54—2

question which made Alma bkish violently, she knew
not why, but she answered indifferently :

Oh, yes.'

And I think m?/ business is done — I think so,^ said
his lordship. * I am not quite sure, but I shall soon
know. So there is nothing to keejD us here, is
there V

I suppose not,' assented Lady Redbourne.

Very well, then. I am glad we are all agreed. AVe
shall be quite a happy family now. "What a pity,' he
added after a short pause, fixing his grey eyes on his
wife, ' that our mutual friend, young Lascelles, is not
with us !'

A great pity,' said Allen, very cordiality, and without
the slightest suspicion of any evil.

'We might have asked him to join us just for the
cruise, you know,' Lord Redbourne went on. ' He
could have gone back from Gib. or somewhere.'

Alma was shivering in a cold perspiration. She

knew her husband too well to suppose that he meant
only what his mere words conveyed.

There is plenty of time still,' suggested Allen,
good-naturedly ; ' we are not under weigh yet, and we
could send the dingy ashore and ask him.'

I am afraid,' said Lord Redbourne, slowly but
with marked emphasis, and still looking at his wife.
I am afraid that it is too late —-just too late.'

Dinner was over. His lordship retired into his
cabin and sent for the Portinese pilots, who at once
appeared. Since we last saw them in the Villa
Palmieri, their dress had much improved. They now
wore decent jerseys and navy-blue trousers ; and, but
for their villanous faces and ragged hair, might
almost have been taken for real seamen.

Lord Redbourne glanced round the cabin sharply
to see whether the blinds were drawn down. Then
he said in Italian :

Open the door, one of you.'

The man obeyed.

'Quartermaster!' cried his lordship, who kept his
yacht as near man-of-war fashion as he could.

My lord answered the man, approaching the
door.

Anyone on the quarter-deck ?'

No, my lord.'

Keep it clear, then. I don't want to be disturbed
at present. Stand by the companion, and don't let
anyone come aft.'

Don't let anyone come aft ; aye, aye, my
lord.'

Now,' he said, turning to the two men as soon as
the door was shut, and the steps of the retreating
quartermaster had ceased to sound, ' have you finished
it?'

We have, Eccellenza,' replied the smooth-faced
one.

Where are your proofs ?'

Ecco, Eccellenza/ answered the man, producing a
pocket-book which he handed to his lordship.

Fie, you pig !' exclaimed Lord Melbourne, as he
took the book from him. ' Why did you not wipe
it first ? Why it is filthy — all over slime.'

And Lord Redbourne looked with disgust at his
hands, which were smeared with some reddish-brown
stuff. It was not sea water, nor slime, nor mud : it
was blood.

The man was profuse in apologies.

Hold your d — d row,' exclaimed his lordship, ' and
bring me that basin and some water.'

He carefully washed his hands, and wiped the
book, placing the towel on the table, for fear of
forgetting it.

Then he proceeded to open the pocket-book He
found in it a number of visiting-cards bearing Ronald
Lascelles^ name, and memoranda papers of no importance.
But there was nothing of any value.

Where are the bank-notes V inquired Lord Redbourne
sharply.

There were none in it replied the men simultaneously.


You lie, you fools !' his lordship went on. ' Don't
you know that he was a banker, and was taking his
inamorata out into the country ? Of course he had
bank-notes. You have kept them.'

By Heaven we have not,' they said.

Liars,' repeated Lord Redbourne, ' and idiots. He
was a banker, and you may be sure that he kept the
numbers of the notes. Every one of them will be
evidence against you. It will be traced, as sure as there
is a police in Portino, and then — felice note.' He made
a significant gesture as if a cord were being knotted
round his neck. The rascals began to look alarmed.

Do you think I want the money V his lordship
went on. ' Look round the ship. It is all mine, and
I've enough to buy twenty such ships.'

The black, beady eyes of the bearded one almost
started out of their sockets.

You must hand me every one of the notes that
was in this book,' said Lord Eedbourne. ' You must
not keep a single one back, or your necks will pay for
it. And I will give you good gold napoleons —
napoleons which tell no tales.'

Well, Eccellenza,' said the bearded man, ' we did
find some money. We ought not to have deceived
you, Eccellenza ; but it was a trifle.'

No more words. Hand it over at once.'

The men proceeded to pull up their jerseys to the
arms, and disclosed two tattered shirts, dirtier than
words can describe. Under the shirts, suspended
by a leather thong round the neck, each wore a small
bag of the same material, and a tiny silver crucifix.
They opened their bags and produced notes of various
denominations, amounting in all to about four hundred
francs.

Pe.v Banco /' exclaimed his lordship, ' you have
made some progress since last week ! You call this a
trifle ? Now have you given me every bank-note you
found V

Every one they said.

Swear it on the crucifix, then.'

The bearded one raised the little cross to his lips
with the left hand, while lifting up the right towards
Heaven, and swore solemnly. But his comrade
hesitated.

Well V said Lord Redbourne impatiently. ' And
you?'

The man almost blushed through his swarthy skin,
and stammered, and at last he took off his boot,
whence he produced a bank-note for five hundred
francs.

Rascal !' exclaimed his lordship. ' It is well that
you have brought it out. This would have been a
capital passport to the gallows, even after ten years.'

It was my share pleaded the bravo. ' / did the
trick.'

And then he swore willingly enough, appealing to
Heaven to punish him if he were telling a falsehood.

Now light that candle,' said Lord Melbourne.

It was done, and placed on the little table beside
him. He burnt the bank-notes carefully, one by one,
till nothing remained of them but black ashes. The
Italians stared in amazement at this waste of good
money.

Where is his watch V asked he, when the task Vas
completed.

There was more prevarication, but at last the
bearded man produced the watch from his boot, and
the other one the chain from under his belt.

Then his lordship unlocked a heavy iron safe
behind his chair, and took out of it a bag of
napoleons.

Here,' he said, counting them out, ' are twenty-five

napoleons each for the bank-notes you have given
me. Here are ten more each for the watch and chain.
And, lastly, here are the fifty I promised you. Share
them as you like.'

The Italians were profuse in their gratitude. The
younger, however, ventured to ask :

How about the other hundred, Eccellenza ?'

Those you shall have, as I said, the day you sail
for South America — when you are safe on board the
ship. Now, where is the dagger ?'

'Here, Eccellenza,' said the beardless one, producing
a long, double-edged knife, sharp as a razor.

Very well. Give me that towel.'

His lordship slowly spread out the blood-stained
towel, and placed in it the pocket-book and the watch
and chain. Then he made them brings him a baof of
shot from a locker, and knotted the towel carefully,
so that none of the articles could possibly slip out.
Lastly, he pushed the sharp knife through it, so that

if perchance the knots became undone, the knife
would still skewer the cloth together. All this beinor
completed, he told one of them to open the door,
and the other to hold out his arm. Grasping it firmly
with one hand, he took up the fatal bundle in the
other, and struggled across the deck to the bulwarks.
Then he dropped the bundle overboard. It sank to
the bottom instantly.

When he had returned to his cabin with the assistance
of his humble instruments, he dismissed them.
Then he rang the bell for his valet, and in a half an
hour the Laodicea was steaming slowly round the
Molo, bound for Palermo.

Just when the lighthouse-keeper at the head of the
Molo could scarcely make out the glare of the fire
from the Laodicea' s funnel, and the throb of her screw
was becoming fainter in the distance, Edith surprised
Mr. and Mrs. Lascelles by suddenly appearing in the
quiet drawing-room at the Consulate.

Edith !' exclaimed her father-in-law, in astonishment.


Why, child, what is the matter ?' asked Mrs. Las-welles,
rising from her arm-chair. ' You look as pale
as death !'

Have you seen Ronald ?' she gasped.

Ronald ? No, of cour-se not. We thought he
was quietly at home hours ago. Did he not come in to
dinner V

No !' she cried. ' God ! I do not know what has
become of him !'

Mrs. Lascelles was a sensible woman withal, and
not easily alarmed for a trifle. She led her daughter-in-law
to a seat.

Calm yourself, dear. He is probably dinner out
somewhere. There is nothing to be frightened at.'

I cannot help it !' gasped Edith, trembling. '0
mother, mother, he will never come back !'

Do not talk nonsense, Edith,' said Mrs. Lascelles,

almost sharply. ' He may have gone to the club, or
to a friend's house.'

No, no she answered. ' I have sent to the club,
and I have inquired everywhere. Ronald !' she
cried, unable to control herself, ' why did you leave
me ?' Then, in another minute, she burst into
hysterical laughter. ' Of course,' she said, ' how could
it be otherwise ? Why should I cry for him ? He
did not care for me ; he never did !'

Mrs. Lascelles was now seriously frightened. She
sent her husband for Marietta, and coaxed Edith to
come into her room. When the poor thing began to
recover her senses, she again burst into tears and
sobbed violently.

Do not be so anxious, Edith dear,' said Mrs.
Lascelles soothingly. ' Ronald will be at home soon,
and laugh at your fears.'

You don't understand it !' cried Edith. ' Oh, he
will never come back ! I know he will not.'

What makes you so unreasonable, child V asked
Mrs. Lascelles. 'I cannot make you out. Surely
there is nothing so very strange in his not having
returned to dinner ?'

In her terror, Edith threw her arms round the old
lady's neck and drew her head down.

Listen,' she whispered. ' I know what has happened.
He has gone off with her !'

With whom ? Are you mad, child ? What do
you mean ?'

With Lady Redbourne ! I have known it ever so
long. He has loved her for years, long before he knew
2:>oor me. And now he has left us all, and has gone off'
with her at last !'

Then she burst into tears again, and sobbed as if her
heart would break. Nothing Mrs. Lascelles could say
or do had any effect on her uncontrollable grief
Between her paroxysms she sobbed out the whole
story — how he had met Lady Redbourne at Richmond,

how she had generously helped them in their
hour of need, how he had raved about her in his
fever, and how they had once more renewed their
acquaintance at Portino. His mother was horrified,
almost turned to stone, when she heard the tale. Yet
she attributed some of it to Edith's fancy. She could
not believe it.

But said Mrs. Lascelles at last, ' from what you
tell me, and from what I have seen of Lady Redbourne,
she is not at all the sort of woman to elope
With a married man. She has a generous, high-principled
nature, I should think.'

You don't know what love is,' replied Edith.
You have no idea of its power. There is nothing
in this world nor the next that can resist it.'

Nonsense, Edith. You are raving. Ronald would
never desert his wife and children for any woman in
the world.'

Mother,' said Edith, checking her sobs and sitting

A^OL. III. 55

lip on the bed, you don't know. If that woman
had told Ronald to jump into the sea to pick up a
shilling, he would have done it.'

Edith was riqlit. The o-ood Consul's wife had no
knowledge of love in its more violent forms. She
could understand domestic affection, and she understood
the infatuation of some foolish ^^oung men for
ladies of various ages and very various positions in
society.

Such attacks were like the diseases of infancy
— difficult to avoid, but not very serious if
carefully treated. If neglected, of course they might
bo dangerous ; but generally they were short, sharp,
raid without permanent evil results. But that a
married man, with a perfect wife and two lovely
children — her own clever, good son — should be thus
seized was to her simply an impossibility. She did
not believe it because she thought that in the nature
of things it could not be.

My dear Edith,' said she, after arguing the matter
as well as she could, ' have you anything to confirm
this mad idea of yours V

'Everything!' said Edith. 'I asked where he had
spent the afternoon. They would not tell me at first ;
but at last I found out that he had driven to
Bagnuoli with her in his brougham. Then he went
into the Villa with her, and no one has seen him since.
Oh !' she cried, again bursting into tears, ' and no one
of us will ever see him again.'

But have you inquired at the Villa ?'

Of course !' she replied. ' There is no one there at
all. It is empty and locked up. Lord Redbourne
left for the yacht before lunch. I can see clearly how
it was all arranged. They went oft' to the station
while the yacht was waiting for them !'

Is the yacht still here ?' asked Mrs. Lascelles, very
sensibly.

I do not know,' said Edith.

55—2

Your father would know. I will go at once and
inquire.

Of course at the Consulate the movements of a
larixe English steamer were sure to be known. In ten
minutes Mrs. Lascelles ascertained that the Laodicea
had cleared for Palermo that afternoon, and had been
seen steaming out of the harbour about an hour
before. She returned to Edith with the news.

Now, dear she said, ' you see you must be wrong.
Lord Redbourne would not have sailed off without his
wife.'

Who knows ? Perhaps he was glad to get rid of
her. Perhaps it was all arranged between them.'

You are unreasonable, Edith. I will go home with
you now. We are sure to find Ronald waiting for
you, and wondering what you are doing away from
home at eleven o'clock at night.'

At the Palazzo Woodall they found, to their surprise,
the door wide open and a commotion in the

hall. There was a noise of loud talking and exclamations,
of questions and answers, which was suddenly
hushed when one of the servants cried :

La Signora /'

What is the matter V asked Edith.

There was no reply. Some averted their eyes ;
others looked down on the floor. No one spoke.

What is it ?' she asked again. ' Where is the
Signore ?'

The old concierge pointed up the staircase.

Upstairs ? Why did you not tell me ? What is
it ? Is he hurt ?' and she turned to run up as fast as
she could.

Wait, Signora,' said one of the women. ' They
have carried him into his room. The doctor has
come.'

What has happened ?' screamed Edith. ' Speak,
for Heaven's sake, or stand back and let me go upstairs.'


Still there was silence, and the staircase was
blocked.

'Dead?'

There was no answer. The faces only grew paler,
and the eyes sought the ground again. But she read
the truth, nevertheless.

Throwing her arms up with one piercing shriek, she
fell prone on the marble pavement.

At this moment, George Stent calmly lighted a
cigar as he issued out of the Gaffer Florian at Venice,
and wondered whether the mine he had left behind
had exploded.

He need not have doubted it.

AND LAST.

When the Laodicea had been at sea about twelve
hours, Lord Redbourne woke from the calm and untroubled
slumber which accompanies a good conscience.
Sending for his captain, he ordered the
course to be altered, and shaped straight for
Gibraltar.

After all he said, ' I have changed my mind about
these Lipari Islands. We will sail home as fast as we
can, and get rid of these Portino fellows when we fall
in with an Italian ships

'Yery well, my lord,' said Osborne, to whom the
order' was very welcome, and who was anxious to get

rid of the dirty native rascals, as he not inaptly
termed them, as soon as possible.

Lord Redbourne was in excellent spirits all day,
and particularly amiable to his wife. At dinner he
insisted on drinking champagne, though Dr. Allen
warned him that that insidious wine was sure to bring
on the gout. He laughed good-humouredly at the
doctor, instead of swearing at him, as he would have
done a week ago. But he insisted on having his way,
and forced a glass on Alma, who felt disposed for anything
rather than champagne. As to Allen, he admitted
that he liked it himself, and that it agreed
with him ; but he begged his patient not to take more
than one glass. All was useless ; not only did Lord
Redbourne indulge freely, but he even ordered a
second bottle to be opened. Then the honour of the
physician asserted itself

I cannot sit by and see you killing yourself, my
lord,' said Allen, and rising from the table. * You

must excuse my leaving your table And he rose as
majestically as he could — not very majestically, for
there was a little lop on— and retired to his own
cabin.

Go and be d — d to you, Pillbox/ Lord Redbourne
called after him. And then he actually turned to
Alma, and apologized for having used an oath in her
presence.

Considering that he had sworn freely and unceasingly
for years, whether in his wife's hearing or
not, this conduct was certainly surprising. Alma
began to wonder whether she had done him injustice,
and whether, after all, he was perhaps better than she
thought, or at any rate disposed to become better in
his declining years. She repressed her sighs and tried
to be cheerful. She thought it her duty to encourage
any signs of good feeling displayed by her husband,
and therefore sat patiently by while he discussed a
bottle of old madeira, which, in the absence of his

doctor, liG ordered up to conclude the feast. The old
man lay back in his chair, holding up his wine to the
light and admiring its golden sparkle. Occasionally,
he would gently stroke his wife's cheek with his left
hand. Once he even went so far as to bend over her
and impress on her face a horrible vinous kiss. She
shuddered, but bore it calmly. When he had finished
his wine he called for coffee and cigarettes, and still
kept his wife by his side.

I want you to stop with me a bit. Alma,' he said
caressingly. * I wish we had asked that young
Lascelles to come : he would have been better company
than Allen, and I should not worry you by keeping
you here.'

Oh, I don't mind at all,' murmured she.

Yes, but you do. I am not blind — not quite
blind yet,' he said, as he had said in the Villa
Palmer i. ' You would like your old husband to beat
the bottom of the sea.'

How can you say such things, Melbourne ?'

Because they are all true, my dear,' he answered,
stroking her cheek. ' I know, bless you, child, I am
old enough to be your grandfather ! Of course you
cannot love me ; I never expected it. When I am
gone, you will marry some fine strapping young fellow
of your own age.'

I shall not want to marry again,' said Alma sadly.

You will want to, fast enough, if you find the right
man. A pity that young Lascelles is married already ;
he would have suited you exactly, would he not ?"

The old man looked piercingly at her. She was
suffering agonies.

It is too late, though, now. It's no use crying
over spilt milk. Good-night, child ; go to bed.'

What did all this mean ? Was the old man really
inclined to be fonder and good to her during the rest
of his life ? But then, why these constant allusions
to Ronald, and the frequent sharp glances of those

keen eyes ? She retired to rest in a state of bewilderment.
For many hours she tossed about sleeplessly
on her couch. Towards morning she dropped into an
uneasy slumber, only to be awakened by the tramping
on deck overhead and voices in the steerage.

She wondered whether anything had happened to
the vessel. But soon there was a knock at her door,
and her maid's voice inquired whether she might
come in.

His lordship is took very ill, my lady, and the
doctor said as how I'd best call you up.'

In a few minutes she was on deck in the dim dawn
of morning, in the cabin adjoining Lord Redbourne's.
Allen came out with an anxious face.

It is as I feared, Lady Redbourne,^ he said. ' That
wine last night settled it. Angina pectoris has
come on. I do not think there is any chance for
him.'

Is he in great pain V asked Alma, full of deep

sorrow, notwithstanding all she had suffered from the
man who was now on his death-bed.

Well, he can scarcely breathe ; but there is not
much actual pain at this moment. He was in agonies
for several hours — ever since midnight, in fact. But
it was of no use waking you then. Now I think sou
had better go in to him.'

Does he know, then ?' whispered Alma, struck
with awe.

I felt it my duty to tell him,' replied Allen, ' and
he asked for you.'

She followed the doctor into the cabin, where the
wreck of her husband was propped up with pillows
on the couch. He had been seized with frightful
pain before he had got into his berth, and they had
not dared to move him since. His breath came and
went in short, hoarse gasps.

Who is it ?' he asked in a faint voice.

'• Go away, doctor,' he struggled to say, when he

heard the reply. ' I wish — to speak — to Lady Redbourne
in private.

Allen obeyed.

Alma,' said the old man hoarsely, ' I am going to
die.'

She only wept. What other answer could she
give ?

I am perfectly aware of it — I cannot breathe.
Please lift up my head. Thank you,' he gasped as
she obeyed. 'In an hour or two it will be — allover.'


Alma was still silent. There was nothing to be
heard except the old man's moaning and an occasional
sob. She had not done her entire duty to
the wretched creature who was lying there — and
she felt it.

Do you think that I am in my senses ?' asked the
invalid. ' Do you think that I know what I am
talking about V

Of course you do,' whispered Alma. ' But do
not try to speak ; it hurts you too much.'

I must, or it will be too late.'

The words came out slower, with frequent interruptions
by dreadful fits of coughing.

I have had, on the whole, a jolly life of it. I cannot
complain. I have spent more happy hours than
most men. I have taken things easily, and have treated
people as I found them — good or bad. My temper has
been sharp lately ; but it has been that infernal gout.'

He paused, exhausted. There was a violent
struggle for breath, and Alma almost feared that he
would never speak again. She turned to the door to
call for help, but Lord Redbourne made violent signs
for her to sit down again by his side.

Give me some of that drink,' he at last said : ' I
am as weak as a baby. Thanks. I have done some
things I am sorry for in the course of my life, but
some I am proud of. And the thing I am proudest

of I am going to tell you. It has been a neat
workmanlike job.'

Alma listened attentively.

Lord Redbourne succeeded in sitting almost erect.

Open the window,' he cried ; ' I want air.' At
last he went on, still with frequent interruptions.
The Resources are a proud lot,' he went on ; ' my
father was a fine fellow — but proud. We have all
been proud for generations. When some one injures
us, we do not go to law, but pitch into him. In old
times we used to run him through ; now, in England,
we have to be satisfied with punching his head. No
Redbourne has ever been in the Divorce Court.'

Alma started. A fearful G^urdinof in the sick man's
throat. She sprang to her feet, and shrieked for the
doctor.

Be quiet,' Lord Redbourne said hoarsely ; and then
in a weak, failing voice, went on : 'I was not going
to be the first. Did you fancy I knew nothing of

Ronald Lascelles and your spooning ? Why, you were
not ashamed of beg seen all about Portino with
him, and dancing with him all night, and then going
off to some village to spend a happy afternoon ! Yoib
were not ashamed, but I was.'

Alma was unbounded. She could not utter a
syllable. Now she stooped to catch the faint
whisper of his words.

It would have been a pity to kill you. You are
too handsome and too young to die. Besides, perhaps
it was not your fault ; and it might have created a
scandal. So I thought I had better get him killed
instead.'

Kill him !' shrieked Alma.

Yes,' he answered, in a very weak but determined
voice. ' The young gentleman had a knife put into
his heart within five minutes of leaving you, the night
before last. He won't seduce anyone else's wife, I can
assure you.'

VOL. III. 56

He was innocent ! Upon my soul, innocent ! So
am I !' cried Alma, falling on her knees. ' And you
have taken the life of an innocent man.'

Don't make a noise,' gasped the dying man, while
a ghastly livid pallor overspread his face ; ' it is not
good form. At any rate, the young man is done for,
and you won't be able to marry him. I shall die with
a good conscience !'

A quarter of an hour later Allen ventured to enter
the cabin, whence no sound had issued for some time.
He found Lady Redbourne inanimate on the floor, and
his lordship fighting for breath, his arms stretched
and his fingers spread out, grasping convulsively for
the life which was fast ebbing away.

Two days later the Laodicea entered Gibraltar with
her flag half-mast high. The owner was on boiird —

dead.

:jc * * * ^

^ There is just the slightest shadow of hope,' said

Dr. Guarani to the Consul, after watching all night at
the bedside. ' The haemorrhage was terrible; and when
I first examined him, I thought he was actually gone.
But this mirror has always shown a faint dulness when
I held it to his face, and by a very careful touch I can
just detect a pulse — I may say the ghost of a pulse.'

Thank God !' exclaimed the Consul.

Do not be in a hurry, and, above all, do not rush
and wake the ladies. They want rest badly enough,
poor things. He may yet go out at any moment. In
fact, to tell you the truth, I think he's pretty sure to
go out. But he is still living ; and where there is life
there is hope. The haemorrhage has stopped, and fortunately
that knife glanced off and did not penetrate
the heart, but only grazed the outer integuments

Edith had not slept. When she recovered from her
trance she found herself in her own room, and slowly
realised the horrors of the night. Her first feeling
was almost one of relief. Her husband had not

56—2

deserted her, but had been murdered on his way home
foully and cruelly murdered. Better that he should
be dead than living with another 1 But then she
reproached herself for this awful joy, and fell to weeping:
over her widowed home and fatherless children.
Hearing her sobs, Marietta came in from the adjoining
room and tried consolation.

Trust in the Holy Virgin !' said the poor old
woman. ' The Cavaliers may yet recover by a miracle.'

What !' exclaimed Edith starting up. * Is it not
all over, then ?'

Her cry brought Mrs. Lascelles in.

No, dear, thanks be to Heaven ! There is just a
faint chance of Ronald being saved to us. It seems
that Dr. Guarani exclaimed that it was all over when
he first examined the poor fellow, and of course the
servants took up the cry, and made up their minds to
the worst, as servants always do,' she added with a
faint smile.

Long before she had finished Edith was up. She
had thrown a shawl over her shoulders.

^ I must go to him she said. * My place is by my
husband's side. Thank God that I still possess a
husband!'

Indeed, it was time that somebody should relieve the
doctor, who was nearly worn out by the exertion of
five consecutive hours. The dawn was creeping
through the windows when Edith entered the sickroom.
Without any signs of emotion she asked what
was to be done and how to do it. Guarani promised
to send his assistant immediately, and to return in a
couple of hours himself. He instructed her as to the
use of restoratives, and then darted off to send his
junior.

For days Ronald floated, hesitating between life and
death. At any moment a slight shock, a disturbance
of the bandages, or even a violent noise, might have
inclined the balance against him. But a strong constitution,

the most careful of doctors, and the most
devoted of nurses at last conquered. He was pronounced
to be out of immediate danger, and his ultimate
recovery would depend, they said, on his being
kept absolutely quiet, and still nursed with the
greatest attention.

But to the Consul, and to his mother, the doctors
confided what at first they did not dare to tell Edith
that he would never regain his old strength. One
lung had been touched by the knife, and at the best
that lung must always be weak and liable to inflammation.
So many organs had been injured that the
whilom strong man would be little better than a valetudinarian.
Desk-work would be out of the question
for him : out-door exercise must be confined to quiet
drives and gentle walks. A cold climate would be
fatal ; fogs and frost deadly. Gradually the sad truth
was told to Edith, and she, with many precautions,
broke it to the invalid when the summer heats were

over and the people were returning to Portino, and
Ronald began to talk of resuming his place at the
Bank. Alas ! it had long ago been filled up by young
Woodall, who had been hastily summoned from Lombard
Street, and Ronald Lascelles would never more
study the exchanges, and dictate letters, and watch
the faces of his cunning Italian customers when they
wanted to get a loan from him.

The blow was terrible at first. But, lying on his
couch, Ronald thought of his past life, its troubles and
its passions, and he thanked Providence for Having
been merciful to him. He had been chastened, and
even punished, but not beyond his deserts. He still
had a long life before him — a life possibly not active
nor vigorous as he might have desired, but one in
which it was possible to do and enjoy much good. He
had a loving wife and delightful children. He had
more money than he wanted — more than was necessary
to provide for everybody. He had been saved three

times almost miraculously — once from financial ruin
and disgrace by a great, generous-hearted woman,
once from moral ruin by the same noble creature, and
now, by the mercy of Heaven and his good wife's care,
from the knife of the assassin. His heart was still full
of memories of Alma, but the passion was dead. It
had gone with his blood when the dagger was plunged
into his back on that fatal night. It had gone never
to return, for the days and nights of weakness had
taught him lessons of humility and patience^essons
which he would never forget. They had taught him,
too, to think gently and lovingly of his good mother,
whose despair at the possibility of losing her son had
been described to him by Guarani as fearful to behold.
After all she had not been so far wrong when she
selected Edith as the proper wife for him. Could the
second half of his life have been happier, even with
his own adored Alma?

The latter wrote a terrible, painful letter of remorse

to Edith from Gibraltar, still under the fearful impression
left by Lord Redbourne's dying words, and
believing that poor Ronald had left this world for a
better. In this letter Alma told more than she
herself was aware. Utterly depraved as Lord Redbourne
had been, his widow shrank from exposing the
full extent of his wickedness even now. She said that
she had had a terrible scene with her husband before
he died ; that the latter had accused her of faithlessness,
and had admitted that he himself had indirectly
caused Ronald's death by allowing it to be known that he
would pass through the solitary lane with a considerable
sum of money on his person. The hint, added Alma,
seemed to have sufficed for the Portino bravos. That
every line in this letter was full of the most awful self-reproaches
and the most abject remorse need scarcely
be mentioned. It wound up by saying that among his
lordship's papers an anonymous letter had been found,
which was probably the original cause of his suspicion.

The whole story was now clear. The police, who
had industriously been pursuing a ' clue and had
caught nobody, was informed that as the motives of
the attack had not been robbery, they would probably
not succeed in capturing the villains. Nor did
they. The two bravos were transferred at Gibraltar
to a vessel bound for Buenos Ayres, where, perhaps,
they lived happily ever after.

When the invalid's recovery appeared almost certain,
Edith wrote to her at Melbourne House, and,
some weeks later, received a reply which filled her
with varied emotions. Lady Redbourne determined
to devote her vast fortune and her great abilities to
good works, and for this purpose had already started
and endowed a Convalescent Home, and was next
intending to construct a similar building at the seaside,
on a much larger scale, for the poor children of
London. In connection with this institution, of which
she proposed taking the active management herself,

she thought of erecting a hundred cottages, where
poor families might come for ten days or a fortnight
during the summer to recruit their frames, worn outby
incessant work in the stifling atmosphere of the
East End. In her noble efforts she had secured the
assistance of Mrs. Hardy, and both looked forward to
their future with anticipations which were almost joyous.
George Stent became a disagreeable old man long
before his time. Disappointed and disgusted at the
failure of his schemes (which the clan greatly reprobated,
because anonymous letters were not respectable),
he plodded along in the old weary track without
satisfaction in the present or hope for the future.
Fortunately, Clara's quiet disposition made her contented
with her lot, and she has not yet discovered
what an entirely bad man she has married. The
only thing that puzzles her is, that Edith and Ronald
have never asked them to Portino, and never mention
George's name in their rare and brief letters.

Woodalls' is still flourishing. Young Reginald
Lascelles, Ronald's son, is to enter the establishment
in Lombard Street next year. Mr. Edward AVoodall,
though eighty years of age, still receives his friends
hospitably at Heath Lodge, and has three bottles of
'34 port left, which he says shall be drunk on the day
when Reginald becomes a partner. Edith's father
drives to Lombard Street three times a week, and is
hale and hearty. He goes to Portino every winter to
see his children.

As to the Consul, he has retired ; but Ronald has
bought the Villa Palmieri for him, and he and his
wife spend their time between this, the Palazzo
Donati, and Ronald's new home on the road to San
Cristoforo.

THE END.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

Q >

(s^:$t*^

W^-

■/:•/-■■:- vi

■^M'^

tm

#^lg:.-;^

Wf'

;^^

^-mm^s

^%f

»:

t-Jm^-.im

s^#

r;«^^>^"-^S

'^>-;i

:^^5
