■.-<r^

Jl$



VOL. I.

AT ALL THE LIBRARIES

MURIEL'S MARRIAGE. By Esse Stuart, author of

A Faire Dalzell,' &c. 3 vols.

THE BROKEN SEAL. By Dora Russell, author of

'Footprints in the Snow,' &c. 3 vols.

A WILFUL YOUNG WOMAN. By A. Price, author of

'A Rustic Maid,' ' Who is Sylvia ?' &c. 3 voIp.

ONCE AGAIN. By Mrs. Forrester, author of ' Viva,'

Mignon,' ' My Lord and My Lady,' &c. 3 vols.

A HOUSE PARTY. By Ouida. 1 vol. crown 8vo. 6s.

hurst & BLACKETT, 13, great MARLBOROUGH STREET

GREEN HILLS BY THE SEA

A MANX STORY

BY

HUGH COLEMAN DAVIDSON

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. L

LONDON:

HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
1887. ■

All rights reserved.

(THE ISLE OF MAN.)

When the summer day is over and its busy cares have flown,
I sit beneath the twilight, with a weary heart alone ;
There rises like a vision, sparkling bright in nature's glee,
My own dear Elian Vannin and its green hills by the sea.

Then I hear the wavelets murmur as they kiss the fairy shore,
And beneath the emerald waters sings the mermaid as of yore ;
And the fair isle shines in beauty as in youth it dawned on me.
My own dear Elian Vannin and its green hills by the sea.

Then memories sweet and tender come like music's plaintive float
Of the hearts in Elian Vannin that loved me long ago ;
And I give with tears and blessings my fondest thoughts to thee,
My own dear Elian Vannin and thy green hills by the sea.

Mrs. Craven Green.

CONTENTS

OF

THE FIRST VOLUME.

CHAPTER I.

TEHI-TEGI.

It was a sunny July morning in the
second quarter of the present century.

At a window of one of the houses on
the south side of Castletown market-place
sat a beautiful woman. Though still
young, she was dressed as a widow : not
as one who must soothe her feelings by
plunging ecstatically into billows of crape,
but with a regard for appearances which
hinted at a hope somewhere.

VOL. I. B

Her mother — a more orthodox widow —
stood behind, resting her jewelled hands
on her daughters shoulders, and apparently
gazing beyond the quiet scene
outside.

The view from the window was limited
in front by the grim old fortress of
Castle Rushen, with its one-handed Elizabethan
clock and Cardinal Wolsey's glacis,
overgrown with grass, amid which stood
an antique town-cross and sun-dial ; on
the right, whence came the murmur of the
sea, by St. Mary's, the Government chapel,
a long oblong castellated structure, with a
circular tower in the centre ; and on the
left by a couple of narrow streets converging
upon the market-place, Arboryy Street
terminating in the barracks, and Male
Street in the custom-house, so that the
two buildings faced each other. In the
foreground rose a tall Doric column, erected

to commemorate a former Lieutenant-governor
of the island. Being of freestone,
it presented a marked contrast to the grey-limestone
of which the whole town was
built.

As regards animation, there was scarcely
more than usual. A few old fishermen
were dozing on the slabs around the sundial
; a tethered goat was menacing a dog
on the glacis ; a sentry was pacing in front
of the barrack gate ; and a butcher s cart,
with scales attached in order that each
joint might be cut and weighed at
the door, was moving from house to
house.

There was also a quartette, consisting
of Major Christorey, a member of the
House of Keys ; Mr. Patterson, Captain
of the Parish ; Dr. Mylworry, who had a
number of greyhounds scampering after
him ; and Mr. Hudson, the Government

b2

chaplain, a benevolent old clergyman
in swallow-tail coat, knee-breeches, and
buckled shoes. They walked to and fro
with their hands behind their backs, as if
they had nothing particular to do. In
fact, they had met together for a
gentle gossip, as was their custom of a
morning.

Besides this elderly quartette, there were
a couple of young men walking by themselves.
The sturdy young fellow with the
handsome, changeful face and curly brown
hair was an advocate, Frank Maddrell byname
; and his taller companion, with the
villainous-looking Irish terrier at his heels
was Major Christorey's only son. Frank
had acquired a certain local reputation by
his literary pretensions, but so far they
had led to nothing more. This, however,
was quite enough to explain the deferential
bearing of Ned Christorey.

The first time the taro friends passed
the window where Diana Knightonon was
sitting, they raised their hats to her, but
neither glanced in her direction a^^ain.
Whatever the cause, a look of disappointment
crept over the exquisitely-cut features,
the pretty little mouth quivered
and then tightened, and the brilliant dark
eyes clouded until they almost matched
in colour the masses of jet-black hair upon
the proudly-poised head.

Presently the mother withdrew. Soon
afterwards the daughter rose from her seat
and disappeared — behind the curtains,
where she remained for a moment or tAVO
peeping.

If she had expected to see any change
in the situation, she found herself mistaken,
for gossip was still the order of the
day.

Manxmen,' Frank was declaring in his

impulsive way, ' should stand by one another,
whatever happens.'

^ But don't you think, Frank,' Ned ventured
to ask, with all humility, 'it was
rather rough-and-ready treatment?'

An Irish boat had brought into the harbour
a cargo of herrings caught on Sunday,
and a party of Manxmen — who are
such strict Sabbatarians that they fish
neither on Saturday night nor on Sunday
had boarded the sinner and tossed the
herrings into the water. The result had
been a very pretty fight, which was the
subject under discussion.

You should look at the matter reasonably,
Ned,' returned Frank. ' Even if we
Manxmen were in the wrong, it is not for
us to say so.'

'No?'

Decidedly not. No race could possibly
be bound by stronger ties than we are.

Above everything, we must be a united
family. Look at our history! Look atour
traditions ! Look there !' He turned
and stood pointing to the Castle. ' That
grand old hero of a hundred fights should
be our rallying point if ever we want one.
Nearly nine hundred years old, Ned, for it
was built by Gathered, son of Orry, in the
middle of the tenth century.'

It was a good deal of power to be produced
by a very small spark, but nothing
uncommon for Frank. He would probably
have gone through the whole history had
not Ned said, nth his great grey eyes
opened wider than usual,

By Jove, Frank, and I've never once
been inside it !'

Here was a melancholy specimen of a
patriot if you like ! Never once inside the
Castle ! Frank's look of amazement and
contempt was sublime. But before he

could find words, a number of young men
arrived upon the scene, and the conversation
took a lighter turn.

They were all advocates, of course ; for
the Bar is and ever has been the sole profession
of Manxmen. Nevertheless, there
was nothing very lawyer-like about them ;
indeed, they were dressed more like amateur
yachtsmen. Their hands and faces
were bronzed by exposure to the sun, and
all their conversation was of the sea.

While they were arranging for some
yachting expedition, Diana Knightonon came
down the steps of her house. As if at the
word of command, the elderly quartette
swung round on its left pivot, four hats
came oiF simultaneously, and four heads
were bowed before the fascinating young-widow.
When she had smilingly acknowledged
the salute, the four marched on
again, but not without casting an occasional

glance of envy at the advocates who had
grouped themselves around her.

Although, in Frank's opinion, Diana
laboured under the terrible disadvantage
of being an Englishwoman, he could not
deny her surpassing loveliness, which not
even the widow's poke-bonnet and cap
could detract from. As she stood therewith
the sunlight falling on her tall,
graceful figure, and kindling, as it seemed,
in the lustrous eyes which had a bewitching
smile for all her admirers, she certainly
looked a woman to drive a man to distraction.
While her pretty coquetry
played upon all alike, it was so cleverly
done that each laid the flattering unction
to his soul that he was the favoured mortal.
Some there were who thought her a heartless
flirt, and yet she did but nod, and
the advocates were flying on her errands
in all directions. Yes, she would be delighted

to go for a sail in the afternoon.
Away went Sammy Kneale helter-skelter
to tell old Jonathan Yondyy about the
boat. Yes, she would love a picnic above
everything. Away dashed that huge fellow,
John Moore, to make the necessary
arrangements.

Ned and Frank alone showed no great
eagerness to precipitate themselves about
the place. They remained talking with
her until the others returned, anxious to
accompany her for a walk. But this she
refused to sanction. Laughingly shaking
her head at them, she glided up Male
Street, and vanished into a shop, while
the young men stood in a semi-circle
looking after her. Then they turned, and
each stared hard at the faces of his companions.


They had grown wonderfully silent,
these frolicsome advocates. Gloom was

written on their manly foreheads, and
distrust lurked in the corners of their
eyes. Not one of them could have uttered
a joke now to save his life. From this
awkward predicament they were rescued
by the appearance of the Lieutenant-governor.
Preceded, as on all state occasions,
by a gorgeous sergeant-major,
His Excellency crossed the market-place
and entered the barracks, where there was
an unusual bustle, the detachment having
received orders to join the regiment at
head-quarters. The mess-sergeant was
hurrying about paying bills; orderlies
were running in and out ; and the sentry
was having a busy time with all manner
of persons who pestered him with questions,
and wanted to get inside the yard.

There was a subaltern leaning out of
one of the windows of the officers' quarters,
and Frank went to speak to him.

While he was thus engaged, the High
Bailiff* joined the quartette in the marketplace,
and his gold snufF-box at once
became the chief object of interest.

Five minutes later the Castle clock
struck the hour, whereupon every watch
was drawn from its fob and set right for
the day. When Frank looked again, lo !
a wilderness, even the drowsy old fishermen
having disappeared. Everybody had
strolled into the Court to see what was
going on.

Frank went in the same direction ;
crossing the market-place to follow the
road round the glacis, and passing the
little square in which stood the House of
Keys. At the Castle gate he paused irresolutely.
Several cases of assault and
battery, arising out of the fight between

A combination of stipendiary magistrate, mayor, and
coroner.

the Manx and Irish fishermen, were being
tried within. Should he go to hear them ?
He looked at the sentry posted before the
guard-room opposite ; he looked into the
harbour, which was lined with vessels, the
yards of those on the further side almost
touching the windows of the houses ; he
looked along the quay, where quaint old
women, in the biggest of white caps, were
knitting at their doorways ; and, finally,
he walked towards the ancient drawbridge
which spanned the entrance to the harbour.
It was surely strange that Frank
Maddrell, after his lofty profession of patriotism,
should keep away from the Court
this morning.

The drawbridge passed, he took the road
to the right, which led towards Douglas.
There was a sharp elbow by a smithy, and
then the bay lay full in view, a breast-high
wall alone separating the shingly

beach from the road, with its short fringe
of houses followed by a long strip of high
garden-walls.

It was with some surprise that Frank
noticed Diana Knightonon in front of him.
She was sauntering along in a purposeless
way, now glancing across the sheeny sea
at the promontory of Langness, and now
playing with the embroidered bag which
it was fashionable in those days to carry
on the left arm. Chancing to turn round,
she caught sight of Frank, so he had to
quicken his pace.

He did not appear to be quite as pleased
at the meeting as she did, but this may
have been merely a man's awkwardness in
the presence of a beautiful woman, well
though he knew her. Having spent two
years in the town, Diana had fallen into
many of its Avays, and addressed her friends
Frank among the number — by their

Christian names, a thing that he had never
ventured to do in her case.

Going far, Mrs. Knightonon ?' he asked,
his they walked along side by side.

No, only for a stroll,' replied Diana.

The gentleness of her manner towards
him was so different from her playfulness
in the market-place that it was hard to
imagine her the same creature. She had
a remarkably sweet voice — one of those
finely modulated voices that suggest nothing
so much as music floating across the
moonlit sea; and yet one glance at her
was enough to show it could also express
the more stormy feelings of human
nature.

But, Frank,' added she, laying a dainty
little hand upon his arm, ' you call all the
other girls by their Christian names. Why
am I made the exception ?'

Oh, but we have all been to the same

dame's school, and we have all grown up
together — so it's quite different.'

But,' said Diana, with a roguish twinkle
in her eyes, ' even if I have not had the
honour of being whipped with you, as I
hear the Colquitts used to be, we have
had many pleasant hours together. There's
a handsome compliment for you,' she said,
lightly, to conceal her vexation at his
silence. ' Now, won't you do as I ask T

I'll try, of course, if you really wish
it'

I don't like being singular,' she hastened
to explain. These words brought a
very pretty blush to her cheeks, and necessitated
a further explanation. ^ It
makes me feel an outsider when I am Mrs.
Knightonon, and all the others are Bessie
and Mona, and so on.' Her eyes furtively
sought his, but he was staring at the
dazzling limestone road beneath his feet,

which may have accounted for his change
of colour. There was a slight tremor in
her voice as she added, with feminine
ingenuity, ' You can't blame me, Frank,
for wishing to conform with Manx customs.'


Not at all, Mrs. '

Then begin at once, sir,' she laughed.

Frank blushed at her, and blushed at
the road, and blushed at the sea, and
finally stammered out,

Diana.'

Dear me, it might be a dose of castor-oil.
You are not by any means perfect in
your lesson. Please, repeat it, sir.'

Diana,' said Frank, glancing rather
wistfully at a house standing in a garden.

It was just beyond a little recess where
a sentry was posted before the lodge-gates
of Government House. Frank's footsteps
had begun to lag, as if he was approaching

VOL. I. c

his destination. But Diana having launched
out into a long story, politeness compelled
him to walk on with her. When
they arrived at the end of the garden wall,
they beheld a young woman advancing
along the Douglas Road, and a very
strange being along the Shore Road,
which at this point branches oiF from the
other.

This strange being was clad in carranes^^
dark-blue trousers, three ancient swallow-tail
coats which were a mass of pockets
and huge buttons, and lastly a shaggy top-hat
without any brim. He was short and
slim in figure, with a merry but otherwise
expressionless face, pale-blue eyes, and
yellow hair. Though he was invariably
called Bobby Begs his proper name was

Sandals of untanned leather. They were worn by all
the peasantry a generation earlier, and by many at this
time.

t Beg signifies little.

Kelly, which would scarcely have distinguished
him in a land where Kelly s are so
common. His mother had got rid of all
responsibility for his want of brains by declaring
him to be an elfin changeling. He
never walked — always danced along singing,
as now. He was trolling out :

The king can only dance a reel,
And I can do the same ;
I dances on my toes and heel,
And that's the for I came.'

But when the young woman emerged on
the road before him, his song instantly
changed to a shout of —

'Tehi-tegi! Tehi-tegi !'

It was not until he was nearly abreast
of Diana and Frank that Bobby Beg ceased
to call out these curious Avoids, and then
he took off the shaggy brimless hat with
both hands and made a profound bow to
the beautiful young widow. After that,

o2

he stood staring at her in open-mouthed
admiration.

She would have belied her sex had she
been insensible to this tribute to her
charms, coming though it did from such a
humble individual as Bobby Beg, and she
gave him a kindly smile and nod in passing.
Moreover, it was more than pity that
prompted her next words.

Is Bobby Beg able to do any work,
Frank?' she asked.

Oh, yes, when he can get it.'

Then I shall give the poor fellow something
to do in my garden. And what does
he mean by crying out, " Tehi-tegi "?'

I'll tell you all about it, Mrs. — Diana,'
said Frank, glowing with pleasure at the
chance of relating one of his beloved
legends. ' It was before the Stanley were
kings of Man, perhaps in the days of the
Orrys, perhaps even in the days of the

mighty magician Mannanan — at any rate,
it was very long ago that there lived in the
island a wonderful enchantress, whose
name was Tehi-tegi. With her floating
jet-black hair, and wild dark eyes, and
smile-lit face, she was lovely beyond the
power of words to tell, and her ways were
so winsome and her accents so silvery that
all the Manxmen fell desperately in love
with her. Wherever she went, they followed
; and a very dreadful state of affairs
ensued. The lands were unploughed, the
fields covered with stones, the cattle died
from want of pasture, the peat was uncut
in the turbaries, and the fishery neglected.
Everything went to rack and ruin, and,
oily to think of it, all through love of a
beautiful woman ! But listen, there was
worse to come. One day Tehi-tegi mounted
her milk-white palfrey, and, at the head
of her six hundred lovers, made a triumphal

procession through the island. At
length they arrived at what was really a
deep river, though Tehi-tegi made it look
quite shallow and easy for fording. Oh,
yes, she was a very crafty Avoman, this
lovely creature with the smile-lit face and
silvery accents, and there was no limit to
her cruel power. When the poor deluded
Manxmen were in the middle of the river,
she suddenly made a great wind sweep a
deluge of water upon them, and every one
was drowned. Then, with a mocking laugh,
she changed her milk-white palfrey into a
porpoise and herself into a bat. It was a
bitter lesson, and Manxmen have laid it
to heart. When they see a woman before
them, they call out "Tehi-tegi!" as a
charm ; and, lest the same disaster should
happen again, they always used to ride in
front, while their wives and daughters followed
on foot, carrying their shoes and

stockings in their hands, and only putting
them on "for fashion's sake" before entering
a town. Some of the farmers still
adhere to the safe old custom.'

While Frank was speaking, Diana
watched him intently, her face lighting
up at a description which might very well
apply to her own person, but afterwards
darkening with a variety of suppressed
emotions. It was easy to see that she
was undergoing a mental struggle. When
he ceased, she remained silent, walking
thoughtfully by his side.

Frank, who was rather hasty in drawing
conclusions, felt not a little nettled at her
silence. He ascribed it to a want of interest
in his story, perhaps the one thing
that he found least endurable. His pictures
were very real to him ; they were
scenes in which he himself lived while he
was describing them ; he saw them, as it

were, being enacted under his very eye,
either in some wild glen along the coast,
or among the rugged mountains, which
were even now smiling at him from beneath
a sunny sky. Such being the case,
he was naturally never more vexed than
when he had impulsively depicted one of
these scenes for the benefit of some unimaginative
person, who passed on with
merely a shrug of the shoulders.

It was therefore with the greatest relief
that he listened to Diana's comment, even
though it was made, not from his artistic
standpoint, but from a practical one which
was quite beyond him.

Frank,' she said, softly, ' the beauty
that Time takes from the living, he adds
to the dead. The real Tehi-tegi is still
alive, and only a common-place woman
after all. She is not, and never has been,
half as beautiful as you imagine.'

Oh ! but think of her with her pretty
cajolery, now teasing and now petting,
pretending to frown upon one and smiling
upon another, and always surrounded by
a throng of enraptured faces — poor, foolish
things ! Indeed, indeed she must have,
been very lovely.'

After some hesitation, Diana said, with
a slight accession of colour,

You don't understand my meaning,
Frank. There is something of Tehi-tegi
in every woman. It is our nature to
make ourselves look as charming as possible.
The brightest flowers attract the
most bees, you know; and, if the bees
happen to come to grief upon the thorns
well,' said she, with a ripple of laughter,
one must exercise a little judgment in
such matters. I suppose Tehi-tegi's lovers
had eyes, otherwise they would scarcely
have been able to admire her.'

Diana appeared to have shifted her
ground.

But urged Frank, ' she threw her
witchery around them.'

That is a man's way of looking at it.
No doubt a scapegoat is a very useful
animal, but in most cases it should be
provided with panniers like a donkey, so
as to carry a double load. Surely Tehi-
tegi cannot be held responsible for her
good looks ! If men chose to fall in love
with her and into the water afterwards,
they should blame their own want of
judgment.'

But they died for their love,' remonstrated
Frank, also drawn away from his
original position ; ' and what could be a
sweeter death than that ?'

Suppose they had lived to regret.
Suppose that, living in their ruined cottages,
starving because the crops lay rotting

on the ground and the cattle dead in the
fields, miserable at the failure of their
foolish infatuation, they had to think of
the lovely Tehi-tegi, with the smile-lit
face and silvery accents, as nothing buta
sooty bat ! Can you imagine their
feelings then, Frank ?'

Yes,' he answered, in a hollow voice,
and with a pained, far-away look in his
eyes, as if he really beheld these stretched
beings. eyes, I can. They are crouching
by the side of the silent river, with
their heads buried in their hands : too
exhausted even to weep, wearily waiting
for Death, who seems so long in coming,
to ferry them across to the dark land
beyond.'

That is very sad, Frank,' said Diana,
gently. 'But in this world folly is punished
more severely than sin. So remember
But, dear me, what nonsense I've

been talking ! I wonder what the next
batch of officers mil be like.' And then
she glided into the lightest topics, talking
and laughing as if it were quite impossible
for her to be serious for two moments
together.

She was a wonderful puzzle to Frank,
who found it no easy matter to follow her
in her swift flight from one mood to
another. These queenly women have
usually a touch of the marble about
them; they are statuesque, lest they
should be awkward. But Diana Knightonon
was as graceful as a swallow, and as
changeful as an April day. Had she
been warning Frank against herself? or
against some one else ? or against her sex
generally ? Was the coquette in conflict
with the woman ? If so, what could bring
about such a state of affairs? Her own
indecision rendered the answer difficult.

Not that Frank Maddrell was troubled
by these questions. Even if his eyes had
been less strongly fixed upon the fanciful
Tehi-tegi, he would not have had time to
consider Diana's application of the legend,
for she talked all the way back to Castletown.


Afterwards, when he came to think it
over, he was quite astonished at her
cleverness in choosing subjects that interested
him. She had led him past the house
in the warden a second time !

Note. — The legend of Tehi-tegi occurs in Waldron's
curious old book reprinted by the Manx Society,
to whose publications I am indebted for much other
material. — H. CD.

CHAPTER II.

SUNSET.

The sun was setting behind the mountains :
a row of fine old giants from whose shoulders
descended a patchwork of moorland
and meadow and portland which stopped
only at the water's edge. Barrel and
Cronk-ny-Irey-lhaa were flaming like beacons
in the still clear air, and there poured
out of the west a fan-shaped flood of gold
and crimson which gradually faded into a
delicate pink and amber in the far east.
The sea was a burnished mirror, reflecting
the colouring overhead so accurately, that

the meeting of sea and sky was scarcely
discernible. Upon the horizon where the
Cumbrian hills were dimly outlined, lay
the new moon like a silver boat. The
headlands beyond Poolvash had a dark
forbidding aspect ; but if the tide was
surging around Netherland and breaking in
foam upon the Thousla Rock, the Calf
Islet was radiant in purple, and The Eye —
a solitary rock with a large arch-like perforation
— beamed pleasantly on the glistening
current that glided towards it.

Viewed from Scarlettt, the western horn
of Castletown Bay and the eastern horn
of Poolvash, the houses clustering around
Castle Rushen resembled a swarm of bees
clustering around the queen, on which
their very existence depended. Farther
along the shore, and some little distance
beyond the house at which Frank Mad-dwell
had hesitated in the morning, stood

the old ruin of Hangoo Hill, with the sea
rippling over the pebbles to its base, and
King William's College behind, and Snae-
fell Garraghan and Bein-y-Phot in the far
background. Farther round still, a number
of gulls were hovering over a narrow
strip of greensward between two seas — the
Racecourse, Adhere ' Stanlao^h Roar ' ^ Kin 2:
of Man, surrounded by his little Court, beheld
the first Derby instituted by himself,
and run a hundred-and-fifty years before
Epsom was heard of. And beyond this
again the gorse was glowing on the long,
low, rugged promontory of Langness,
which seemed bent on crawling across the
bay towards the Stack of Scarlettt, a great
black dome of crystalline basalt which, as
the rocks around amply testify, marks the
site of a submarine volcano.

While the sun was still a hands-breadth

' The Great Stanley ': the seventh Earl of Derby.

above the horizon, Nessie Colquitt and
Ned Christorey ensconced themselves in a
cosy nook near the Stack. They had been
helping Mona Colquitt to collect some seaweeds
for the purpose of decoration, and
had left her engaged in that occupation.
She could do better without their assistance,
she had told them ; and they had
taken her at her word.

It was much pleasant to sit on that
broken wall of volcanic ash and lava
welded into a sort of porphyries, watching
the wavelets run toddling to their feet,
and listening to their merry lisping prattle.
The Manx, in common-with some other
nations, have a pretty fancy about the
sea. The sparkling crests of the waves
are, they say, the jewels of Ben Yarrey,*
and their music is the song she sings to
entice mortals away from them. Some-the

mermaid.
VOL. I. D

where down in the crystal water among
the tasselled stalks of the long brown seaweed,
there is a grand town of countless
towers and gilded minarets in which she
lives, feasting ois golden plates and drinking
out of golden goblets, and even
attending church, for on many a Sunday
morning the sailors can hear the bells
ringing. Indeed it would be hard to
enumerate all the wonderful things that
Ben Yarrey does in her splendid home
tinder the sea.

Nessie knew all about them ; was it this
that made her so silent? Whatever the
subject of her thoughts, she kept it to
herself. In the beautiful land of dreams,
there are many mysteries that the wayfarer
prefers to linger over in solitude.
For Nessie, those purple clouds banked
upon the horizon had been crystallised
into the real landscapes of the future, and

the awakening breeze whispered of a sweet
life in store for her, and the murmur of
the sea was a wedding-march. This was
quite enough to explain the smile that
played about her rosy, half-open lips.

Seated just above the water's edge,
Nessie made a charming picture. She was
slight in figure, and not very tall ; and, if
you had peeped down the quaint poke-bonnet
she wore, you would have seen a
vision of dimpled cheeks, and hazel eyes,
and nut-brown hair carefully braided
awa}'- from a bright, young, pensive face.
Like her sister Mona, she had a perfect
complexion, fresh and clear, and the skin
as soft as a peach ; and yet, strangely
enough, neither sun nor sea appeared to
affect it in any way.

By the side of such a companion, Ned
Christorey looked shockingly clumsy. Nor
was the contrast lost upon himself, for he

d2

was evidently much dissatisfied with his
appearance. He glanced in a deprecatory-way
at his own person, and then, with a
strange softening of his rugged features,
at Nessie. Finally his great grey eyes
rested on his boots, which were none too
small. Recognising this, he hastily moved
them to one side, so that they should not
attract attention.

Ned felt it extremely embarrassing that
Nessie should be so unconscious of what
was going on in his mind. He had resolved
to take the desperate leap that he
had been meditating for months, yet knew
not how to set about it.

While he was still hesitating, he noticed
a long-necked cormorant floating like a
black bottle in the water close to the rocks.
Presently it dived, and reappeared with a
small calling struggling in its beak. The
next moment the bird gave a crunch, and

the fish's head and tail fell into the sea,
and, hey presto ! the fish itself had vanished.
Now that, thought Ned, is the
way to dispose of a slippery question. Off
with the head and tail, and swallow the
rest whole.

So the ancient principal of omens which
has more vitality than is generally imagined,
induced Ned to plunge in medias res.
After a cough to attract notice, he said,
earnestly,

bessie, I do love you. And do you
love me ? And will you marry me ?'

The speech was a little abrupt, perhaps.
But at no time was Ned a waste of
words, and these contained his meaning to
the brim.

Nessie gave him a swift startled look.

You dear old land Ned,' she said, intones
of such deep pity that his heart sank
like lead, ' you know I'm so — so fond of

you ; but, indeed — indeed I can t marry
you;

'Why not, Nessie?' he gasped.

Ned, we have always been like brother
and sister. Oh, but it would be a strange
thing for us to think of marriage !'

'But I'll be less a brother in future.
And then, Nessie?'

Let us be the same always !' she pleaded,
laying her hand tenderly upon his
arm. ' Let us remain dear friends ! Oh 1
why should Ave change when we have been
so happy ?'

Friends !' he exclaimed, bitterly, and
the rest of the speech wrung from him in
his anguish was equally unlike himself
Friends ! Most people miss a friend as
much as a tooth : a slight inconvenience
at first, and then a dentist replaces the
one and an acquaintance the other. Is it
to be so between you and me, Nessie?

Are we to be no more to one another than

that ? I had hoped But what a brute

I am ! I didn't mean to distress you. I
I scarcely know what I'm saying.' He
turned towards her With a look of patient
suffering in his face like a dumb animal's.
Nessie was in an exceedingly painful
position. She and Ned had played
together in childhood ; they had been
boon companions in these later days ; they
had always been the staunchest of friends,
aiding one another in their little difficulties,
and each upholding the other against
all comers. But never once had she suspected
the true state of his feelings towards
her. They had been, as she had
said, like brother and sister, and a greater
love than this had never entered her head.
His words had come upon her as a sudden
revelation, casting a wholly different complexion
upon their past lives. When she

recovered from the first shock, she threw
all the blame for what happened upon her
own shoulders. She must have encouraged
him, she told herself; yet when she came
to search for a particular instance, she
could not find one.

In these days of modern refinement, it
has become fashionable for maidens to
treat their lovers as so many entrees — to
refuse some with a disdainful shake of the
head, and to trifle with others iwur passer
h temps. In this simple way they can
vary the courses indefinitely, and spread a
very pleasant feast over a period so long
that it extends almost from the cradle to
the grave. There are others, however,
whose tastes lead them to adopt a different
method for making life pass smoothly :
they are determined anglers. When Isaac
Walton told his disciples to bait with a
frog ' as if they loved him,' he little thought

Avhat apt pupils he would have among the
fair sex, though the venue of the gentle
sport has been slightly shifted. Poor
broglie that will a- wooing go ' is likely to
fare badly when he falls into their hands,
his plaintive croak notwithstanding.

But Nessie, living in old-world times
and in an old-world spot, knew nothing
of these tender arts. She was young and
innocent, or ignorant, call it which you
will. In her eyes, love was a beautiful
halo, as real as the sunset glow around
her ; it was a sacred mystery, inscrutable,
yet fascinating, attainable to the lowest
as well as the highest, yet to be approached
only with reverence. Instead of being as
proud of Ned as a peacock of its first tail-feather,
she was unutterably grieved, for
she felt that she had dealt her best friend
the heaviest blow that one human being
can deal another. Her young heart ached

for this poor suffering fellow, and lie
would gladly have given all she possessed
to be able to soften the pain. But how?

'You will be far, far happier with some one
else,' she said, in her pretty, pleading way.
Believe me, you poor old Ned, I could
never, never, never make you half as
happy as you deserve to be. You don't
know what a horrid, cross, bad-tempered
thing I can be ; you don't indeed. Oh,
but you don't know anything about me.
You think you do, but you don't really.
Mona will tell you I am quite a little volcano
— at times,' added Nessie, not liking
to make her character altogether unsightly.
So there, Ned ! Surely that's enough to
drive this passing foolish fancy away.'

She concluded this ingenious little
speech by stroking him on the back as if
he were a cat.

But it's no j)^ssmg fancy,' said Ned,
desperately, ' and it's not foolish. It's
real, downright honest love that will never
change — no, never. Oh ! Nessie,' he cried
stretching out his arms as if he would
have her shelter there for ever, ' my darling,
my darling ' But there he

stopped, and his arms fell back to his
side, for she had turned away her head.

What was her objection to him ? Watching
her for some sign, his eyes eventually
rested upon her tiny white hand, beside
which his own great brown paw looked so
clumsy that he withdrew it from sight.
As his next words showed, there was not
an atom of conceit in the action, but hope
lingered even ^^et.

I know I'm a big, awkward, ugly fellow,'
he went on, humbly, ' with nothing
to make a sweet thing like you care about

me. But oh, Nessie, if there is anything
I can alter to gain your love, do tell me,
and let me try.'

Ned seemed to think that a heart was
to be talked over like an intelligent jury.

Oh ! Ned, why will you misunderstand
me ? You are far, far too good for me ;
you are indeed. I can't — don't you see ?
How can I tell you?'

He looked at her wistfully.

But in time,' he said, ' you may change.
Everybody changes.'

^ And you?'

Oh, but that's quite different.'

She smiled very sadly. But Ned proceeded,
eagerly,

Love never changes — at least, not such
love as I have for you. But friendship
may grow into love ; now, mayn't it,
Nessie ? Do say it may.'

She could only shake her head.

For some moments there was silence
between the two, Ned struggling with a
painful choking sensation in his throat.
When he had mastered it in some measure.,
he said, in a hoarse whisper,

'Then it's all over. It was only a
bright dream, was it, Nessie ?'

The poke-bonnet was turned in the
direction of the Stack, for the tears were
raining down the soft cheeks. Ned heard
a sob, but that was all the answer he
got.

The glory of the sunset had vanished.
The pinks and purples had faded to a
sombre grey ; a mist was winding around
the black headlands, where the gulls and
gannets were sleeping in long white rowdy
and the water plashing on the rocks had a
dismal moan. Yet the scene was bright
and warm compared with that on which
Ned's dim eyes were fastened — a prospect

of blighted hopes, a loveless life without
Nessie.

Forced to relieve his feelings by some
physical act, he rose to his feet and pressed
both hands tightly against his temples.
There was a rocky plateau behind, and his
head and shoulders just appeared above it.
Turning his back upon the sea, he steadied
himself by leaning against this support,
for everything was whirling round and
round in a dreadful dance, such as he had
never seen before.

Ned's anguish was witnessed by a solitary
spectator — a dog lying on the rocky
plateau within a few feet of him. It was
not by any means a gentlemanly dog ; on
the other hand, it looked, at first sight,
an unmitigated ruffian. It was a coarse,
rough-haired terrier, with oily one ear
and a stump of a tail. It had ugly tusks,
and, some said, an ugly way of using them

indiscriminately. And yet, as it lay therewith
its head between its fore-paws, its
eyes watched Ned with such trustful
affection that one forgot its unhandsome
exterior.

For a minute or so it remained motionless
; but when Ned continued to hide his
face, its expression grew troubled. At
length it rose, gently laid a paw on his
hand, and then retreated a little distance,
still watching him earnestly.

Pre-occupied as Ned was with his own
painful thoughts, he could not resist this
mute appeal. It seemed to him that Toby
had discerned his trouble, and taken this
singularly touching way of showing its
sympathy with him. His eyes glistened
as he stroked the shaggy coat, and when
he saw the instantaneous brightening of
the dog's face, he felt that here, at any
rate, was a creature that loved him. It

was some consolation, if a small one.

Ned had obtained Toby in rather an
unusual manner. Several years before,
he had happened to see an Irish cattle-drover
ill-treating a doo;, and in his indignation
had bowled him over like a ninepin.
The act was no sooner committed than
repented of. The man, having received a
black eye, Ned compensated him with
half-a-sovereign, and took the dog. Since
then he and Toby had been inseparable
companions.

While Ned was caressing his four-footed
friend, a girl was laboriously advancing
towards them. Except that she wore a
large straw hat, she was dressed in dark-blue
like Nessie, to whom she bore a certain
family resemblance. She was of a taller
and stronger build, however ; her hair and
eyes were a shade darker in colour, and
her face might almost have been called

plain, the expression was so firm and decisive.
The inevitable reticule hung from
her left arm — there were no pockets in
the dress in those days — and in her right
hand she carried a bunch of seaweeds,
which looked very like painted filigree
work.

Now then, young people,' she called
out, ' it's time to be getting home.'

We're ready, Mona,' replied Ned,
wincing at the stings contained in his o^vn
words. ' Don't trouble to come any farther.
We'll join you.'

Ned's old-fashioned courtesy was nevermore
noticeable than on this occasion. If
there be any truth in that sorry proverb,
Familiarity breeds contempt,' it certainly
never applied to him ; but the ceremonious
way in which he assisted Nessie over the
rocks, was in a manner new. Neither of
them being able to see very distinctly,

VOL. I. K

they kept their gaze fixed on the ground,
which was so rough as to require great
care in walking. Ned held Nessie's hand,
but with all his gentleness he was a little
clumsy and his assistance rather impeded
her than otherwise. He slipped on the
crumbling stone more than once, each
time nearly bringing her down with him.
Toby followed with an expression of anxious
wonderment ; he never had seen such
a staggering young couple in his life.

However, their adventures among those
miniature hills and valleys had one good
result. It enabled them to compose their
features before they joined Mona, whose
searching glances would have been extremely
embarrassing but for Nessie's
ready tact. Beginning with some playful
remark about the seaweeds, she engaged
her sister in conversation, and sustained it
with great spirit during the homeward

walk. If Mona had suspected anything at
first, she could do so no longer ; it was impossible
to imagine that a painful secret
lurked in the clear depths of those hazel
eyes.

Nessie was a far better hypocrite than
Ned. Indeed she acted her part so well
that he felt hurt at her cheerfulness when
he was utterly miserable. Reproaching
himself for the feeling the next moment,
he made a desperate attempt to help her
in keeping up appearances, but his lips
seemed glued together. All that he could
do was to escort the two girls over the
rocks as carefully as possible.

After leaving the porphyritic dyke, they
came upon a stormy sea of limestone : a
wonderful place, carrying the mind back
to a time when the island was writhing in
torment, a flood of molten lava pouring
from the Stack, and the rocks where Ned

and Nessie had just been sitting were buta
cloud of dust floating over the flaming
volcano. The smooth surface of these solid
waves was stamped with the likeness of
monstrous fish and furrowed by the icebergs
of the glacial age. It was also full
of tiny basins, each a mimic aquarium
containing jelly-like anemones, seaweeds,
and pebbles.

Ned led the way across the largest of
these valleys and up the grassy slopes beyond.
There was an old limekiln standing
on the very edge of the beach. It resembled
a couple of huge guns planted upright
in the ground and encased in masonry,
with their touch-holes pointing seawards.
From this spot a road round the
bay led back to Castletown. By its means
Ned and the two girls eventually arrived
at the house in a garden — Claddagh House
as it was called — where the Colquitts lived.

He stopped at the gate and held out his
hand to Mona.

But, of course, you'll have tea with us,
Ned,' she said. ' I told mother to expect
you, and Sheval is making some of your
favourite cakes.'

No, thank you, Mona. Not this evening.'

why, what's the meaning of this?
You young people have not been quarrelling,
I hope.' And she looked sharply
from one to the other. It was Mona's
habit to exaggerate her own age, perhaps
as an excuse for the authority she wielded
over the household.

'Quarrelling!' exclaimed Ned, with
some bitterness. ' Oh, no ; we have been
making friends. Good-night, Nessie,' he
added, gently. ' Good-night, Mona. Come
along, Toby.' Then he bowed and closed
the gate, shutting them in and himself
out.

Now that he was alone with his despair,,
he staggered as if he would have fallen,
but by an effort recovered himself. Grasping
his stick more firmly, he said, in a
hoarse voice,

'Toby, we can go home now. Yes,
Toby, I think we can go home.'

The dog seemed to think it was being
reprimanded, for its stumpy tail fell, and
it slunk quietly after its sorrow-stricken
master. And so these two walked homewards
through the deepening shadows.

CHAPTER III.

A NEW ARRIVAL.

On Saturday evening Castletown was ina
state of tumult. There was a cheap-jack
in the little recess between the
custom-house and the glacis, but that
was not the sole cause of the excitement.
Still the recklessness with which he
smashed his crockery to show his supreme
disregard for money was astonishing
enough. Though the market was
long over, many quaintly-clad farmers'
-wives and daughters fluttered moth-like
around his cart. Cautious people as they

were, they could not resist the fascination
of watching and listening. The mere fact
that he had come from the unknown lands
beyond the sea invested him with the
greatest interest ; but, while they marvelled
at the strangeness of his dress, his
language and his gestures, they viewed
with distrust the wonderful bargains he
offered them, and bid only in timid whispers
at long intervals. Every purchase
became the centre of a group of critics,
who gloomily shook their big bonnets as
they pronounced dubious opinions upon it
in Manx.

This crowd formed an excrescence upon
a larger one collected in the market-place,
and composed of advocates, farmers, fishermen,
shopkeepers, and boys. Though not
indifferent to the cheap-jack, they were
clearly drawn together by some other
attraction. While talking, they kept

glancing up Maleww Street, and then at
the barracks, which presented a very
desolate appearance. The windows were
wide open ; the gates also were open ;
and there was no sentry. The only military
to be seen were the barrack-sergeant
and a solitary soldier, who had just arrived
with some baggage carts. In fact, one
detachment had gone, and another was
momentarily expected.

It would appear as if the excitement
had spread to the very bird creation, for
the castle walls were lined with sparrows
and starlings which had returned in haste
from their picnic in the country. Some
were noisily discussing their adventures,
while others were fighting for dormitories
in the ivy below. From the southern
tower, a superior company of rooks surveyed
these small fry with ineffable
disdain. One grey old philosopher, perched

above the clock-bell, with his head cocked
on one side, looked as if he were moralising
upon the scene beneath.

Precisely at sunset the ensign which
had been floating over the castle was
lowered from sight. A few minutes later
the strains of a fife-and-drum band caused
a violent surging in the crowd. The
cheap-jack found himself suddenly deserted,
and every face was turned towards the
mob-beg* pouring along the narrow street.
In the midst of this disorderly escort
marched the new detachment — fine tall
men, most with medals on their breasts,
and all bronzed by foreign service. Notwithstanding
their ten-mile tramp from
Douglas, they stepped out briskly, keeping
time to the music played by their little
band, and apparently pleased at their reception.
The three officers walked behind,

Little mob : tagrag and bobtail.

talking to the barrack-master, whose duty
it was to introduce the company to its new
quarters.

Of the new-comers, there was none that
attracted so much notice as the senior
subaltern, Mr. Fabian Dalrymple. Though
there were many stalwart fellows among
the fishermen, his immense height made
them open their eyes. He was so tall and
thin that one of them raised a laugh by
likening him to a conger. He had handsome
delicate features, a sallow complexion,
fair hair, and strongly-marked veins on a
high forehead. His curving nostrils seemed
to have discovered the secret of perpetual
motion, for they expanded and contracted
continually. It was an intellectual face,
but marred by a weak mouth and supercilious
expression. As he walked along
between these two rows of eager spectators,
he looked unutterably bored ; and, when

lie turned either to the right or to the left,
it was with an air of careless disdain.

While he and his men were advancing
alone; Maleww Street, a sedan-chair was
being borne along Arboryy Street. The two
processions emerging upon the marketplace
at the same time, and almost at the
same spot, each became an object of interest
to the other. The bearers of the
sedan-chair halted to inspect the soldiers
as they went by, and the soldiers laughed
heartily at a form of conveyance which
had long been extinct in England. Withall
its finery, it was a very old specimen :
older than its occupant imagined, for the
bottom fell out, and an elderly lady with
it. She was fortunate enough to alight
on her feet, but even then presented rather
a ridiculous sight.

Frank Maddrell happened to be watching
the subaltern at that moment, and,

observing his listlessness suddenly change
to amusement, followed the direction of
his eyes. The unexpected removal of the
strain upon the bearers' arms having caused
the gaudy old sedan-chair to be jerked up
waist-high, Frank saw enough of the distressed
lady to recognise her as Mrs. Col-quite,
the mother of Mona and Nessie. He
sprang forward to rescue her from her
ignominious position, but as he did so
darted a look of intense indignation at
Fabian Dalrymple, who returned it with
a cold stare, and then passed on, smiling
at some remark made by Captain Nugent.
As the soldiers entered the barrack-yard,
the music ceased. The gates closed
behind them ; the crowd lingered to gaze
up at the windows, but, seeing no great
novelty in the figures that soon appeared
there, gradually melted away ; the cheap-jack
drove off in disgust ; presently, a

corporal's guard marched out to post the
sentries ; and so life in Castletown returned
to its old groove.

But the incident of the sedan-chair was
not so readily forgotten — at any rate, by
Frank Maddrell. It gave him an unfavourable
impression of Dalrymple : or,
rather, strengthened the unfavourable impression
he had already formed from his
face and manner. It was a hasty thing todo,
of course, but that was Frank's way.
He was one of those over-sanguine sensitive
fellows who are easily thrown out of
their stride. His own romantic notions
were so deeply ingrained in his nature that
he was apt to be a little intolerant, and his
future was so bright in his own eyes that
when any shadows fell across it, they were
very black indeed. Possessing in a high
degree the faculty of intuition which has
ebbed as reason has flowed, he could detect

their presence even before they became
visible. And his present feeling was, that
in some way or other the new officer would
be a thorn in his side.

This did not prevent him from paying a
ceremonious visit to the barracks on Monday
afternoon. Captain Nugent and Ensign
Middleton having taken lodgings in
the hotel close by, the lieutenant had the
officers' quarters to himself. He occupied
a large square room on the ground-floor,
with two windows looking out upon the
market-place, and one corner curtained off
to form a bed-room. When Frank was
shown in by the orderly, he saw that the
plain furniture provided by the authorities
had been supplemented by a number of
camp-chairs, couches, rugs, pretty little
tables, and so forth. Some excellent
pictures hung on the walls, and many
valuable nicknames were scattered about

with artistic carelessness. It was evident
that Lieutenant Dalrymple possessed private
means.

He was lounging in an easy-chair near
the window, while his long legs required
two other chairs to support them. After
scanning the card handed to him by his
servant, he laid down the book he had
been reading, and rose to greet his visitor.
Thetwomen shorthand cordially enough ;
and yet, when they looked at one another,
there was something more in their faces
than is usually seen at a first meeting. It
was certainly not hostility, the time not
having come for that ; perhaps it might be
described as languid curiosity in the one
case, and reserve in the other, as if both
foresaw the possibility of a collision in the
future.

'Take that chair, Mr. Maddrell,' said
Dalrymple, pointing to the one he had

vacated and sitting down opposite. ' I
have been holding quite a levee this afternoon.
I should think all the men in the
town must have called upon me.' He
glanced at the mirror, which was framed
with cards.

Then you know everybody by this time?'

Oh, dear, no : I don't know a souL
They poured in so thick and fast that I
can't tell one from another. Now, that
ponderous fellow over there ' — he coiled
his legs under his chair to turn round and
point through the window — * who's he, for
example ?'

'Mr. Lucas, an advocate, my cousin,*
replied Frank, coldly.

Oh, dear, no ; I don't mean him,' said
Dalrymple, pointing to some one else. ' I
mean that oddity over yonder.'

Mr. Moore, an advocate, also my
cousin.'

VOL. I. F

I really think you must be mistaken
said Dalrymple, with consummate coolness,
though there was a gleam of laughter
in his eyes. 'You appear to be looking
too much to the left. I was asking about
that great fat fellow With a squint.'

'That great fat fellow with a squint
said Frank, with increased frigidity, ' is
Mr. Quilliam, an advocate, also my cousin.'

Why, then said Dalrymple, airily,
you all seem to be cousins.'

Nearly.'

And all advocates ?'

Nearly.'

It really is very funny,' said Dalrymple,
with a lazy laugh. It was anything but
polite ; and yet an apology would only
have made matters worse, as would any
fresh attempt to find some one not related
to Frank. But, seeing that it would be
wise to change the conversation, he added,

By-the-by, I have forgotten to ask you
what you will drink. There is port, claret,
whisky, and beer on the premises ; but
anything else can be fetched from the
hotel.'

Thank you, I prefer beer,' said Frank.
It would in those days have been a most
unfriendly act to refuse. In obedience
to the same laws of hospitality which bade
him look upon this stranger as the guest
of the town, he had kept his temper,
strongly as he had felt the provocation
to speak out.

Dalrymple rang the bell, and gave the
necessary orders to his servant.

There was an enamelled snuff-box on
the little table by his side, and, after
offering it to Frank, he took a pinch
himself. As he did so, it was impossible
not to be reminded of the Scotchman who
had " grand accommodation.' Not that

f2

Dalrymple's nose was atrociously large,
but it possessed the power of grasping
what was offered it, like an elephant's
trunk. An active nose, you see, has its
uses. But why should it be applied to
the face of a remarkably passive individual?

Tough,' said he, lying back in his chair
after his wearisome exertions, ' I believe
the country people call beer in their outlandish
dialect. A sore throat always pulls
me up sharp before I get half-way through
the word.'

Frank was so dazed by this calm impertinence,
that he made no attempt to
defend 'the outlandish dialect.' For once
in his life, he was rendered incapable of
uttering a single word. When the orderly
arrived with the tray, Frank plunged headlong
into a glass of beer, in the hope of
beings able to take a clearer view of the
situation afterwards.

^ I like,' said Dalrymple, with just a
suspicion of sarcasm in his tones, ' coming
to a town where one has always somebody
to talk to. You Manxmen seem to
be a hospitable race, in spite of your
inhospitable coast.'

Manx hospitality has always been as
famous as Manx sough.'

'Ah! you like sough,' exclaimed Dalrymple,
thinking he saw a chance of drawing
out his taciturn visitor. ' This ' — here he
drank off a glass — ' is certainly a palatable
drink, but, of course, not equal to the.
noted ales of Burton on-Trent.'

Much as Frank appreciated candour, he
considered the comparison to be both uncalled
for and untrue. No beer could
rival sough. The productions of England
were, from its geographical position, necessarily
inferior to those of Manx. Still, he
made no reply ; he could not trust himself
to speak.

Finding himself at fault in this direction
also, Dalrymple thought it best to
try back.'

It strikes a stranger as very singular,'
he said, regarding Frank as if he were a
picture hung in rather a bad light, ^ that
you should all be advocates. Is there any
particular reason ?'

Frank's face brightened at once and
his tongue was unloosed. He forgot his
unpleasant questioner in the pleasure of
answering the question.
' Yes, there is a little history attached
to that,' he said, and then proceeded to
unreal it with a fluency that could only
have come from practice. ' There once
was a time when the Lieutenant-governor
and Deemsters, sitting in the stone sedilia
at the castle gate, dispensed justice to all
comers " without any frivolous fearing of
lawyers." Before this open-air tribunal

at which the Keys — our Commons, you
know — usually assisted, plaintiff and
defendant appeared in person ; the 
was "bound to plead the
cause of all orphans and widows, they
giving him twopence for his fee ;" and
every case Alas determined on the fourth
court-day at the latest — '' so speedy,"
writes Sacheverell, " is the justice of this
nation, of which perhaps the world hath
not a parallel." But this state of affairs
was not without its drawbacks. I daresay
you know that when medicine can be
obtained without expense, healthy people
will consume it in vast quantities. Similarly,
the ease and cheapness with which
grievances could be redressed, bred a
spirit of litigation. Left to itself, it would
probably have died a natural death when
laws multiplied and became incomprehensible,
but the frauds — I am speaking of a

time before the island passed to the
Crown — continually practised upon the
nation by fugitives from English justice,
served to keep it alive. Then sprang up
a race of" hedge-lawyers," ignorant quacks,
who have been gradually superseded by
regular advocates, duly licensed by the
Lieutenant-governor. Yes, I suppose
there are a good many of us. Perhaps,'
added he, with a smile, ' that is why the
simple faith of the Manx peasant in the
efficacy of the law is not quite so strong
as it used to be.'

When Frank began to speak, Dalrymple
had just taken a pinch of snuff between
his fingers, but the change in his visitor
was so remarkable that his hand paused in
the air. It was some little time before he
felt able to administer the dose to his nose,
which was waiting motionless to receive it.

He watched Frank's face at first with

astonishment and afterwards with critical
curiosity. This odd young man, he admitted,
had found something to talk about,
after all.

I am a bit of a painter, Mr. Maddrell,'
said he, indicating the pictures on the
walls generally ; ' and some day, if you
will allow me, I should like to sketch you
while talking about the island. You area
little hard on your profession, aren't
you ?'

Frank smilingly replied, in his outspoken
way,

Well, you see, I have no clients.'
And the other advocates T laughed
Dalrymple.

'Are, many of them, in the same boat.'

Thus it came about that the two men

parted on better terms than might have

been anticipated. At the same time,

when Frank left the barracks, his presentiment

of coming danger was still strong
upon him. If lie knew not in which
direction to look for it, he felt that Dalrymple
not only was his superior in some
respects, but also possessed the power of
making himself intensely disagreeable : all
the more so because he appeared quite unconscious
of the effect he was producing.
Frank was also partly aware of the fact
that when his own temper was ruffled, he
showed as many objectionable points as a
hedgehog. So there would be numberless
opportunities for friction.

CHAPTER lY.

Military TACTICS.

Shortly after Frank's departure, Captain
Nugent strolled into D airy m pie's, quarters
and took a seat by the window.

He was a short, thick-set man, with a
good-humoured, ruddy face, keen, twinkling
eyes, and grizzled hair. By some
brilliant act in the field, he had gained his
promotion from the ranks, a thing not so
easy to do then as it is now. As a soldier,
he was a strict disciplinarian ; as a private
individual, the very opposite, especially
with those of better family than himself

I'm precious glad to get out of my own
quarters he said, lighting a cigar. ' I've
been receiving visitors four deep.'

So have I,' said Dalrymple, with a
yawn. ' But the most curious specimen
of the choleric islander has just left me. I
have been probing him to see what he is
made of.'

'Why?'

Goodness knows. I don't.'

Didn't you find it fatiguing?'

Well, yes. But in a way he interested
me. I don't know why, and I can't say I
care, but he hates me like poison. I'll tell
you who he is — the young fellow we met
yesterday with that sweet little mermaid.'

'Ah!'

Nugent, I'm going to marry the
mermaid.'

Why ?' asked the captain, with a laugh.

What a man you are to bother about

reasons ! Really, I scarcely know. Perhaps
I have taken a fancy to her, for one
thing ; and for another, I believe the
choleric islander is bent on marrying her.
But, by George, I'll stop him.'

I never know,' said the captain, taking
the cigar out of his mouth to stare at his
friend lounging in the easy-chair opposite,
• whether you are in earnest or not. You
are a strange fellow, Dalrymple. What fun
can there be in such a thing ?'

Dalrymple sat up and tapped him on the
knee.

'Listen to me, Nugent !' he said, speaking
with great deliberation. ' I drifted
into the world ; I have drifted through the
world ; and at the present rate I shall drift
out of the world — at the double if we are
long quartered in this hole. I'm in no
hurry to go ; I never was in a hurry to do
anything ; and as I have never had a purpose

in my life, I intend to try the effect
now. What do you think of that for a
novelty ? I am going to run a race against
the choleric islander, and the prize is to bethe
hand of Miss Nessie Colquitt. So no
poaching, remember.'

It may appear singular that a man who
had hitherto been extremely deficient in
energy should now develop it simply to
defeat energy in another. But the most
ubiquitous beast in the world, and perhaps
the most dangerous, is the .
That Dalrymple had firmly resolved
to spare no effort to marry a girl
whom he had scarcely seen could not be
supposed for a moment ; but it suited him
to say so. There were a few persons.
Captain Nugent among the number, whom
he liked to think well of him, and, when
he thought at all, he liked to think well
of himself In sober truth, however, he

did not look beyond the pleasure of flirting
with a pretty girl, and the still greater
pleasure of irritating a rival. How much
further he might be drawn by circumstances,
he did not trouble to inquire.

The month of August was excellently
adapted to his purpose. A great many
dinners, picnics, and suppers were given
in honour of the new arrivals ; there were
innumerable minor gatherings for drinking
tea and talking gossip ; there were
solemn whist-parties for turbaned dames
in brocaded silks, and grey-headed men in
blue coats with brass buttons ; and for
their juniors there were merry games of
Pope Joan played for mother-of-pearl fish
at so much a dozen. In short, the whole
town plunged into dissipation. As a
natural consequence, the officers were soon
on a familiar footing with everybody.

If Fabian Dalrymple gained the sincere

hatred of most of the men who detested
inn the more for his indifference to their
opinions, he certainly became a great
favourite with the ladies. They called hi
face aristocratic, his figure majestic, his
indolence well-bred ease, and his voice —
for singing was one of his many accomplishments
— a treasure. When he subscribed
towards the purchase of some new
herring-nets for a boat's crew that had lost
its old ones, it was unparalleled generosity,
and when he spoke slightingly of an absent
person, it was delicate sarcasm.

In their eyes, he had not a single fault.
They regarded him as an ideal soldier, a
graceful ornament in a drawing-room, and
no doubt a very lion in the field ; and —
here perhaps we get to the root of the
matter — he paid them compliments with
delightful ease. Most outrageous compliments
many of them, but apparently none

the less acceptable. To Mrs. Colquitt he
remarked upon the striking resemblance
between her and her younger daughter,
and ever afterwards this stout, red-faced
lady praised his perception.

It was not surprising, then, that Dalrymple's
attentions to Nessie should meet
with no obstacle in that quarter ; and, as
for herself, she was but a child in his
hands. Under cover of his attitude towards
the fair sex generally, he could
carry out his manoeuvres without much
fear of detection. Even if he had devoted
himself to her more exclusively than he
did, many would have ascribed it to his
chivalrous instincts.

While he was guarding her as jealously
as a family jewel, if not by his actual
presence, at least by his manner towards
anyone who ventured to approach her,
she, secure in her innocent simplicity, had

VOL. I. G

not the least suspicion of his intentions.
Nessie was always so willing to hear others
talk about themselves, so ready to enter
into their views, and he had so many new
things to tell her about and such a taking
way of telling them, that it would have
been strange had she not found his society
pleasant. But after a time she saw with
vague alarm that her old friends were
falling away from her. Had she done anything
to offend them ? she wondered. Or,
did they think her ridiculous with this
immense young officer beside whom she
must look so absurdly small ? Though
there was but little vanity in Nessie, yet,
as this idea grew upon her, the hazel eyes
often timidly sought the face of one who
had begun to hold aloof. Not a trace of
merriment there : so what could be the
matter ? While the old ladies were
whispering behind their fans that a tall

man was certain to marry a tiny wife,
Nessie was still in the greatest bewilderment.


Ned Christorey, who gazed at her with
wistful sadness almost by the hour, thought
his last hope had vanished. True, he
could not detect anything to show that she
regarded the new arrival as otherwise thana
friend ; but, with a lover's instinct, he saw
that if her present state of isolation should
continue, it must be fatal to his own chances
of happiness. If she were happy and contented,
he would not complain ; but was
she ? In order to find out, he watched her
unceasingly. There were times — times
that sent a delicious thrill through his
veins — when he fancied she wished him to
come to her side; and then he always
went, patiently enduring for her sake
Dalrymple's scorn, which was so shown as
to be unseen by her.

g2

There was at least one other person
affected by the new order of things, and
that was Frank Maddrell. When Dalrymple
discovered that Frank wished to
marry Nessie, Frank had not made the
discovery himself. Like Ned, he had been
her playmate in childhood and her frequent
companion afterwards : she had always
been his favourite ; but it was Dalrymple
who taught him how widely his feelings
for her differed from his feelings for his
other girl friends. He learned then that
he was madly in love with her ; and was
miserable in consequence. He would have
been still more miserable had he known
that his happiness was only possible at the
expense of poor Ned's.

But it was quite enough that Frank's
presentiment had been realized. Henceforth,
he and Dalrymple must meet as
rivals. Chafing at his own inferiority in

coolness, he made several desperate
attempts to break through the barrier that
was slowly but surely rising round Nessie,
but in this he was scarcely successful.
Besides being angry, he was dismayed to
find himself being gradually pushed into
the back-ground, yet in such a calm
policeman-like way that he could offer
neither opposition nor remonstrance.
Elbowed out of the conversation Which
was carefully kept upon topics of which he
was ignorant, he very seldom got a chance
of shining in ISTessie's presence ; and when
he did, Dalrymple's steady gaze seemed to
be saying, ' Stand aside there ! Now then,
young fellow, stand aside ! Great heavens,
don't you see I am waiting !'

In time this treatment broke Frank's
resolution, and he retired into sullen gloom
from ^^dlich he glared out upon the man
who had driven him into it. It was a most

unwise thing to do, but not unnatural.
His conduct needing some justification, he
tried to persuade himself that he was holding
aloof from rivalry with this impudent
fellow — in fact, taking up a position of
dignified reserve.

And now, who could be better qualified
to charm him back into a brighter mood
than Diana Knightonon? Often, in some
crowded drawing-room, when she saw
Frank standing in the background, his
eyes angrily fixed upon Dalrymple bending
over Nessie's chair, she would slip
away from her many admirers, and talk
to him as only she knew how to talk.
Though she had been laughing with the
gayest of the gay a moment before, there
was not a trace of merriment about her
-now, only a tender sympathy that made
her beautiful face look almost angelic.
If, as was sometimes the case, she found

him extremely obstinate, she, nevertheless,
persevered ; and, step by step, picking
her way with wonderful tact and patience,
led him back to cheerfulness. With her
brilliant eyes smiling at him from beneath
their long dark lashes, and her sweet voice
murmuring in his ears, he would have
been less than human had he not smiled
back at her. To most men, though she
never stayed long enough to afford others
an excuse for jealousy, it would have been
a delicious dream whose fragrance must
have lasted a life-time. But the very instant
she left Frank, the clouds were back
on his forehead, and, like a magnet when
some disturbing influence has been removed,
he returned to his pole. When
she noticed the change — and it was never
once lost upon her — she seldom failed to
give expression to her feelings by rapping
some unfortunate smartly over the

knuckles. What woman likes to see that
her power is but transient ?

Sometimes, but not often, Diana engaged
in a flirtation with Dalrymple.
When she did, it was with a reckless
gaiety so foreign to her ordinary manner,
that the unmarried members of her own
sex unanimously pronounced her to bea
horrid, designing widow.' Did she
find a pleasure in showing that, if she
chose, she could bring Dalrymple also to
her feet? Perhaps so. There are some
to whom pleasure is a mere matter of
arithmetic ; they can never rest unless
they are upon the war-path, and one scalp
to them is as good as another — they all
count. But as Diana glanced furtively
at Frank, as if to mark the effect upon
him, and beheld the light once more stealing
into his handsome face, there assuredly
was not a particle of pleasure in hers.

There was something very like pain — the
frenzy of pain that takes a strange delight
in self-torture. On such nights, it was
a very impatient, silent woman that wearily
dragged herself back to her home in
the market-place ; it was an almost hopeless
woman that, in a passion of grief,
went to her bed ; and yet this was the
same as the proud, beautiful, stately woman
who came forth again in the morning,
smiling, as young men and old men
gathered eagerly around her.

Towards the end of the month, a picnic
at Langness brought matters to a crisis.
The spot selected was a pebbly little creek
surrounded by masses of red conglomerate,
which formed a marked contrast to the
bristling grey schist on the outside of the
promontory, as we shall see on a very
different occasion. Some walked or drove
round by the racecourse, but the majority

went in boats across the bay. After landing
at the creek, they passed through a
fine, natural arch in the solid rock, claret-coloured
slate below, and conglomerate
above, with a blaze of gorse on the top ;
and thus entered a small hollow in the
grassy plateau which overlooked the bay.
A more cosy nook for a picnic could scarcely
be imagined.

Dalrymple had wanted to send a squad
of soldiers to do what work was necessary,
but the others had overruled him. It was
ever so much nicer, they declared, to wait
upon themselves ; indeed, that was half the
fun of the thing. And it was astonishing
how much fun the young people got out of
lighting fires, unpacking hampers, and laying
table-cloths. More than one bashful
young man discovered on that sunny
afternoon that, if a missing salt-cellar was

a capital subject for a joke, a salad-bowl
was a short cut to love-making.

While the preparations were in progress,
Ned and Frank kept closely to ISTessie's
side and were assiduous in helping her.
Dalrymple, seated among the dowagers,
made no attempt to interfere. But, as
soon as the meal was ready, he induced
Nessie to sit on his rug, where his sprawling
legs prevented anyone from getting
near her. Frank was simply furious ; not
even Diana's soft words could soothe him.
Afterwards, when the party broke up into
couples, he determined to remain behind
by himself, but, seeing Ned looking equally
dejected, joined him. And so these two
friends, both miserable, both suitors for
Nessie's hand, and each ignorant of the
other's feelings, clubbed their misery and
went off together.

For tliosewlio could abandon themselves
to the pleasure of the moment, the most
enjoyable part of the picnic was the sail
home in the evening. The shore lay in a
dark semi-circle on the edge of the moonlit
water ; the mountains stood in a serried
row behind ; and a rugged coast stretched
from the Stack to the bluff headlands near
the Calf. Except for the crisp sound of
the glistening sea or the plaintive cry of a
curlew, there was silence in the bay, until
there crept into it the procession of returning
boats, some sailing and others rowing,
and all laden with happiness, if the songs
of merry voices be any criterion.

With Diana as chaperon, many of the
young people had crowded into a good-sized
open boat, rigged as a yawl, partly
decked forward and with a large counter
aft. Frank and Ned, who formed the crew,
stood by the mast. The breeze not being

very strong, they had abandoned the tiller
to Diana, who was a born sailor.

If she had wished to contrast her own
queenly beauty with the child-like prettiness
of Nessie, who sat by her feet, she
could not have chosen a more favourable
opportunity. She had never looked more
lovely than she did then, sitting alone on
the counter, her graceful figure outlined
against the starry sky, and her cheeks
flushed with pleasurable excitement as the
boat heeled to the breeze until the gurgling
water was flush with the gunwale. Utterly
fearless herself, she laughed merrily
whenever a shower of spray raised a chorus
of screams. While singing to them some
of the old Manx ballads, she nevertheless
contrived to watch the darkening surface
of the sea for a squall, and Frank's face,
which plainly showed that a squall had
already come.

He, poor fellow, could do nothing but
surfeit himself with misery, never taking
his eyes ois Dalrymple, who was doing his
utmost to amuse ostensibly the whole party,
but really Nessie. Frank made up his mind
that, come what mip;ht, there should be an
end to this. Much as he would have liked
to prepare her for what he had to say, he
must now go at it head foremost, to win or
lose as the event should decide.

When he went to bed that night, he was
fully determined to speak to her next day.
And when he rose in the morning, it was
with increased hopefulness arising out of
that determination. He had a commission
to execute for his uncle, which took him
some time. That done, he started for
Claddagh House.

As he passed the barracks, part of
Dalrymple was hanging out of the window,
the rest of him being inside with Captain

Nugent, who was smoking as usual.
Dalrymple waited until Frank had gone
by, and then completely entered the room,

Nugent,' he said, smiling, ' this grows
exciting. There goes the choleric islander
to visit my pretty mermaid. As sure as
eggs, I can see a proposal in the fellow's
eye.'

^ Well ?' said the captain, who had become
deeply interested in the situation,
though all its complications were not yet
revealed to him.

The choleric islander has the start of
me, after all. But — ' he stopped to take a
leisurely pinch of snuff — ' the first off, remember,
is not always the first in at the
finish.'

Nugent smoked on thoughtfully for a
while, before he said, * I wish, Dalrymple,
you would oblige me and give up this
absurd affair.'

Impossible, my dear fellow, utterly impossible.
Now that I am entered for the
Manx handicap, I consider it a point of
honour not to scratch.'

'Then I shall be glad to see you
unplaced.'

CHAPTER V.

ENGAGED.

In a garden where sweet williams, hollyhocks,
cabbage-roses, rosemary and thyme
grew side by side, and bent old apple-trees
stretched out their shrivelled arms to grasp
the sunbeams that fell around them in
threads of gossamer, an elderly gentleman
was performing some extraordinary antics.
He was a wizened little sharp-featured
man, with small timid eyes set closely in a
skin like parchment. His head would
have been quite bald but for a patch of
grey hair around each ear, which gave him

VOL. I. H

rather an owlish appearance. He carried
a small metal-box in one hand, and in the
other a shrinking-net which he flourished
in the air. Thus equipped, he bounded
wildly over the flower-beds as if his life
depended upon his spasmodic activity.
Sometimes pausing in his erratic career to
wipe his forehead with a red handkerchief,
and sometimes moderating his pace to a
stealthy creep, he swooped with savage
eagerness upon one spot after another ;
then gazing ruefully around, started ofl"
again with renewed vigour.

When he had made nearly a complete
circuit of the garden which was of considerable
size, he and the net dropped upon
a bed of thyme almost simultaneously,
and, instead of rising to dart off again, remained
there. As he peered cautiously
into the net, he looked more like an owl
than ever, his face was so wrinkled. But

the next moment it glowed with triumph —
he had secured his prey, a butterfly !

After some time spent in gloating over
the fluttering insect, the metal-box was
brought into use. When opened, it was
seen to contain a false bottom perforated
'With, holes through which came the pungent
odour of ammonia. To this prison the
butterfly was carefully transferred, and its
struggles ceased almost with the closing
of the lid. Query : Is there not one thing
for which we forget to be thankful — that
there is no race of superior beings anxious
to impale us for future reference or stifle
us in the interests of science ?

A wooden-legged gardener who had been
watching his master's proceedings with a
broad grin, now stumped upon the scene.
Cain the Leg, as he was commonly called,
reminded one of the old pictures of the
sun, for his ruddy mottled face was 



circled by a fringe of ruddier hair, each
ray going straight towards its own
particular point of the compass.

Caught him, sir ?' he asked.

Mr. Colquitt tapped his box with profound
satisfaction.

Ay, he's in there, is he !' said Cain the
Leg, attentively studying the lid. ' Safe
enough, T reckon.'

Yes, safe enough, Cain. A beautiful
specimen.'

that's good, very. You've had a lot
of bother about him, though. Now,' added
Cain the Leg who was athirst for information
when it could be obtained without
trouble, ^ what may he be called ?'

A peacock.'

A peacock ! That's singular, too. An'
what may he be worth, sir, when you've
got him stuffed ?'

Its value,' replied Mr. Colquitt with a

touch of loftiness, ' is not to be calculated
in money. I have the satisfaction of knowing
that I have collected all my specimens
myself.'

'To be sure,' said Cain the Leg, thoughtfully
rubbing his chin and looking a little
disappointed at an answer which might
have been of some practical importance
to himself. 'But that'll Miss Mona say
about the thyme, sir? An' if the mistress
sees— — '

Mr. Colquitt sprang to his feet.

Smooth it down, Cain,' he said,
anxiously regarding the damage he had
done. ' Smooth it down, that's a goodman.
Do it at once, for I must be getting
indoors.' And he went off at a funny jog-trot,
while Cain the Leg winked slyly after
him.

The path, which was bordered on both
sides with white pebbles, led to a gate in a

fence. Below, there was a grassy bank
laced with creeping plants and thickly
sprinkled with the pink flowers of the
convolvulus ; and, above, a wooden lattice-work
hung with ivy. On the other side of
the fence stood Claddagh House, the hall-door
peeping from a bower of enormous
red fuchsias upon a wide gravelled space,
in the centre of which was a flower bed
surrounding an old apple-tree.

The house was built in two stories, with
a very sloping roof and high gables.
Black false windows stared vacantly at the
little strip of lawn and shrub-like trees on
its seaward side, and narrow diamond-paned
windows sparkled at the back and
in front. Its interior was wonderfully like
a quaint old desk, pervaded by the scent
of the lavender and releases of some
tranquil love-story upon the last scene of
which the grave had long closed. While

covering no great extent of ground, it was
packed with small low oddly-shaped rooms
dovetailing into one another most ingeniously.
The woodwork was carved into
curious patterns, the cornices were antique,
and the passages sinuous. A more desirable
residence for a courteous elderly ghost
desirous of seclusion could scarcely be
imagined. It was a delightful dreamy old
place, a derelict floating into the present
from some distant past, and laden with a
rich cargo of memories of bygone times.

When Mr. Colquitt entered the house,
the other members of the family were
collected in the sitting-room. The furniture
of this room, as of the others, was
just what one expected to find there : sold
old chairs, a stiff-backed couch, a massive
table, a cavernous cupboard with sliding
panels, a mahogany bookcase filled with
musty books, and a fine sideboard, all

arranged with a certain air of primness,
like a circle of ceremonious old friends who
would have indignantly resented the
intrusion of a stranger.

Mrs. Colquitt and Nessie occupied the
couch, the former talking in her own
peculiar strain, and the latter tenderly
stroking her mother's hair, which showed
here and there a trace of silver. Mona,
standing at one end of the table, was
cutting up material for a dress. And
Georgie, a bright lad of fourteen, while
preparing some new tackle for his fishing-rod,
found enough leisure to play with a
Manx tabby which had curled itself up ina
patch of sunlight near the window.

He took a cup of tea,' Mrs. Colquitt
was saying in her matter-of-fact way, '• and
a bit of toast, and then went upstairs and
died. Now, I call that ' — she folded her
plump hands on her lap and looked round

complacently — ' a very comfortable death.'

Another of your horrible tales, mother
dear,' said Mona, smiling as she snipped at
her dress.

And Nessie, patting her mother's ruddy
cheek, laughingly exclaimed, ' Oh, you
dear old melancholy beauty !'

Mrs. Colquitt looked hurt at the charges
brought against her by her daughters.
Nothing: in the world could convince her
that she was apt to be a little depressing.
This portly, well-dressed lady with the
round, good-tempered face was altogether
an anomaly. By rights, she should have
been the very essence of cheerfulness ;
and yet the one subject of absorbing
interest to her was death, and if there was
a view more gloomy than another, she was
sure to take it.

horrible, Mona!' she protested 'I
wonder how you can say such things.

]sow there was Thomas Cool, who kissed
his wife, washed his hands at the kitchen
sink — she has got the piece of soap still —
and then jumped out of the attic window.
I remember his funeral well. One never
knows whether one's own mayn't be the
next, so I watched '

But Nessie had laid a gentle hand on
her mother's mouth.

Before she had removed it, there was a
sudden loud rattling of the door-handle ;
then the door itself was flung open to
admit a leg, bent as if it belonged to a
person running at full speed ; and finally
Mr. Colquitt appeared. While closing the
door, he turned round and leaned over the
handle just as if he were engaged in a
confidential tete-astute with it. This was his
usual way of entering a room.

Silently, but With a half-inquiring, half-deprecatory
glance at his wife, he shuffled

across the floor to a chair by the side of
the grate. Being of a very chilly disposition,
he always went as naturally as a
chestnut to the hob, and when, as now,,
there was no fire, it was his habit to get
as near as possible to the place where it
ought to be. He sat down with his feet
on the fender, his knees drawn tightly
together, his clasped hands resting upon
them, and his whole body so compressed
that it looked as if it had been flattened
against the wall. Though he pretended
to gaze reflectively at the Derbyshire
spar in the grate, he knew quite well that
his wife was regarding him with suspicion.


• Maria,' he ventured to say at last, ^ I
have caught a beautiful peacock. Would
you like to see it ?' His hand wandered
towards his pocket.

Indeed I should not,' replied Mrs

Colquitt, severely. ' No, Nessie, be quiet ;
I ivill licave my say. I wonder how a man
the father of a family, too — can be so
cruel. May I ask, Mr. C, how you would
like to be treated as you treat the butterflies?'


He moved uneasily in his chair. While
his wife simply revelled in horrors, the
very idea of death in connection with
himself made him shudder. His pursuit
of entomological specimens was but a
hobby ; his real object in life was — to
live.

We can't compare,' he began.

Oh ! but we can compare,' she said,
with decision, ' and, if you have no particular
objection, Mr. C, we will. Suppose
I were to put you, you cruel, idle man,
who never do a single thing to provide
bread for your own children — suppose I
were to jut you in an oven '

^ Oh, Maria !' he said, wincing.

Yes, in a hot oven,' she proceeded,
sternly, with a nod at him ; ' in an oven
so hot that it would bake a loaf in
five minutes. Now, how would you like
that?'

This interesting Speculation was interrupted
by Georgie, who, belike, had been
pursuing his own train of reflection.

Mona,' he asked, ' is it true that there
are such things as cats with tails ?'

Yes ; in England, I believe.'

How funny they must look !' laughed
Georgie. ' I wonder where they got their
tails.'

As if for the purpose of thinking out
this problem more conveniently, he subsided
beneath the table. But, after a
short silence, he reappeared, roaring with
laughter.

^ Look !' he exclaimed, stuffing his handkerchief

into his mouth and pulling it
out again. ' Oh, do look at Orry !'

By the aid of a strip of Mona's dress -
material, he had improvised a tail for the
unfortunate cat, which was so ashamed of
its appendage that it took refuge behind
the curtain. While Nessie gently reproved
her brother for teasing the animal, Mrs.
Colquitt improved the occasion by lecturing
her husband. This came, she said,
of setting an example of cruelty to his
children.

Nonsense, mother dear,' said Mona, ina
quiet, authoritative way which disarmed
opposition. ' Georgie is no worse than
other boys, and a great deal better than
most. What is it, Sheval?' she asked,
turning towards a gaunt, hard-featured
servant who had just entered.

Miss Nessie,' said Sheval, ' you're
wanted downstairs, if you please.'

'By whom?' asked Nessie, rising to
smooth her ruffled hair at the mirror,
and perhaps to hide the colour in her
dimpled cheeks.

A gentleman.'

But what's his name ?'

He told me,' answered Sheval, smiling,
I wasn't to give no name.'

Nessie turned round to stare.

I know who it is,' cried Georgie, looking
as proud as Punch of his knowledge.
'It's Ned Christorey, and he has given
you another sovereign, Sheval, like you
told me he did before, and that's the reason
you look so pleased. Isn't that right?'

It would be hard to say whether Nessie
or Sheval was the more distressed by this
blunt announcement, but the latter was
the first to find her tongue.

'No, you're wrong. Master Georgie,' she
indignantly replied, fully determined that

never again would she take him into her
confidence. ' I don't say it's Mr. Christorey
and I don't say it isn't ; I don't say who it
is, for I was told not.'

A volley of questions failed to move her
from this position. Mrs. Colquitt was for
holding a council of war whereat the
matter might be thoroughly discussed, but
Nessie was glad to escape from the room.
She was shortly afterwards followed by
Georgie, who announced with an air of
great importance that he had an engagement
with Mr. Maddrell.

An hour passed by before Nessie's return
— an hour spent by Mrs. Colquitt in
guessing at the name of the mysterious
visitor, by her husband in brooding over
the grate, and by their more practical
daughter in going on with her work. The
elder lady was devoured by curiosity;
every sound in the hall sent her hurrying

to the window. When she had exhausted
her list of acquaintances, she returned to
her favourite theme — her husband's deplorable
idleness. She raked up numerous
precedents to show that it would infallibly
kill him in the end : a style of argument
that would have had more weight with
him had not all the persons she mentioned
lived to between eighty and ninety.

Carried away by her own eloquence, she
did not hear two voices talking in the hall
or Nessie's footstep on the stairs, and,
when the door was hastily opened, she was
taken by surprise.

With a very flushed face and bright
eyes, Nessie almost ran across the room
and flung her arms around her mother's
neck.

Oh, mother darling,' she cried, ' I'm so
happy.'

Bless the girl, what's the matter ?' extol.

I. I

claimed Mrs. Colquitt, for Nessie was
sobbing.

Frank has asked me — to be his wife —
and IVe promised — if you don't object.'

Frank ! Frank Maddrell ! On a Friday,
too !'

Mother dear,' said Mona, warningly.

Nessie,' added she, leaving her chair to
bend down and kiss her sister's forehead,
^ I'm very, very glad to hear what you have
just told us. I hope you may be quite
happy ; indeed, I'm sure you will be, with
Frank.'

You dear kind thing !' murmured Nessie,
with a pressure of the hand but without
raising her head. 'And, Mona, you
are happy, too, aren't you ?'

Yes, darling. Your happiness is also
ours.'

'I fully endorse that,' said Mr. Col-quite,

speaking with unusual decision, yet
glancing nervously at his wife.

She was fumbling in a great bag — a kind
of pocket slung underneath the dress and
reached by a slit in the skirt. When she
had drawn out half-a-dozen handkerchiefs,
some having been used as dusters, she
sorted out the cleanest and applied it to
her eyes.

'And you, mother?' asked Nessie, troubled
lest she should have been selfishly enjoying
a happiness which the others could
not share.

Of course,' replied Mrs. Colquitt, ' we
shall be exceedingly sorry to lose you, my
darling, but better this way than another.
I am surprised, though ; I must say I am
surprised.' With a warm heart and the
very best intentions, she had an unfortunate
way of trying to promote the welfare

i2

of others by pressing her own opinions
upon them, for which reason it seemed a
special provision of Nature that her eldest
daughter should have been set in authority
over her. * Frank Maddrell !' she went on.

I felt sure it was to be Mr. Dal ' But

at a look from Mona she stopped abruptly
and began to caress Nessie.

From this moment the situation changed
for the better. Laying aside her nagging
propensities, she exerted herself to please :
an effort that Nessie, who knew ' the
melancholy old beauty ' so well, could
appreciate at its true value. If tears
would steal into the mother's eyes every
now and again, she brushed them away,
and when a congenial horror presented
itself, resolutely passed it by. Mr. Col-quite
had to kiss and congratulate his
pretty daughter, who would not allow
him to return to his solitary chair, but

insisted upon his sitting by her side.
She also made Mona take the buffet at
her feet \ and thus arranged, the family-fell
to discussing plans for the future.

Owing to the intimate relations between
all persons concerned, there had
been a great deal of mystery about
Nessie's lovers. Mrs. Colquitt had, as she
said, supposed Fabian Dalrymple to bethe
favoured suitor, and Mona, though
wise enough to keep her opinion to herself,
had always regarded Ned Christorey in
that light. As Ave shall now see, there
was at least one other person who thought
the same.

CHAPTER VL

A DOMESTIC SCENE.

While one of Nessie's lovers was bringing
his suit to a successful issue, another
was trying to decide upon a course of
action. Was he to accept her answer as
final, or not? Would it distress her if
he were to try again ? These were difficult
questions for Ned, who had only his
honest heart and dull intellect to guide
him.

He was sitting with his mother in a
cheerful room with French windows,,
which opened upon a lawn set with

flower-beds. No disorderly daisy ventured
to show itself in the orderly grass ;
the shrubs in the background stood
shoulder to shoulder like a regiment of
soldiers, a resemblance heightened by the
regularity of the trees behind : everything
denoted the greatest care and precision.
The only incongruous element in the
scene was Toby with his one ear and
stumpy tail. If he had possessed any
notion of the ' fitness of things,' he would
certainly have slunk away to some dark
corner, instead of stretching his shaggy
body at full length upon the lawn.

After surveying the garden, one instinctively
turned to Mrs. Christorey, in
order to ascertain whether she Alas
responsible for the prevailing air of
stiffness. A single glance was sufficient
to set this idea at rest. The sunlight,
streaming through the open endow, fell

in a golden shower upon a slender, gentle,
grey-haired lady sitting in a low basket
chair. She had a singularly sweet but
rather sad expression, which alone redeemed
her from the reproach of plainness.
But in her son's opinion she was
the most beautiful woman in the world
except Jessie. She wore a dainty lace
cap and a silver-grey dress ruffled at the
neck and wrists,, As she bent over her
fancy-work, she sometimes raised her
pensive face to steal an anxious look at
Ned, who was pretending to read the
Manx Mercury.

Presently he rose from his seat, and
Toby, hearing his master's footsteps,
rose also, yawned, stretched himself, and
came and looked inquiringly in at the
window.

Going out, Ned?' asked Mrs. Christorey.

'Yes, I have business, mother.'
Business !' she repeated, with an incredulous
smile. Unfortunately, it had been
ordained that he should do nothing but
potter about the property and wait for his
father's shoes. At no time had this want
of occupation weighed more heavily upon
him than it did now, for there was nothing
to distract his thoughts from his trouble.
^ Is it important?'

AVhat a dear old inquisitive mother it
is !' laughed Ned, laying his hands upon
her shoulders and looking fondly into her
thoughtful face. ' We ought to have an
office here for investigating and controlling
the affairs of Castletown. If they ever
make me a Key — and it's to be hoped for
the honour and glory of the island, that
they'll do so soon — I shall certainly bring
in a bill to that effect.'

I'm glad she said, smiling back at him,
to hear my gloomy son laugh.'

'Gloomy!' he exclaimed, changing colour,
but continuing in the same light strain.
What a dreadful thing to say of a young
man who has so much to do !'

But it's true. There has lately been
something the matter, Ned — something
that you have been trying to hide even
from your mother. Eh, my boy ?'

Well, mother, suppose it is so. You
know I have some good reason for my
silence.'

As he spoke he stood up and turned
away his head, lest his secret should be
wrung from him in spite of himself

^ I know more than that, Ned,' said she,
her eyes glistening with motherly pride.
'I know you are keeping silent because
you are afraid of worrying me. Oh, fie I
my son. Will you deny me a mother's

privilege of doing what little she can to
help her bashful son. Believe me, Ned, it
is a sweet privilege.'

You sweetest and best of mothers !'
said Ned, huskily, bending low over her.

If you only knew your father as well
as I do '

^ And pray, madam, what then ?'

The speaker, who had just stepped in
through the window, was a middle-sized,
brittle-looking man with only one arm, the
other sleeve being padded and sewn to his
side. He spoke and moved so stiffly as to
suo^o-est a fear lest he should break — lose
another arm or a leg. He was carefully
dressed, and his grizzled hair was as neat
as the rest of his person. It was Major
Christorey himself, once of His Majesty's
service, afterwards of the Manx Fencible,
and now a prominent member of the House
of Keys and a landed proprietor.

'Sit down, Reginald,' said Ms wife,
quietly.

But he turned to Ned and asked :

What is the meaning of this tomfoolery
between you and the Claddagh House
people?'

I don't understand you, sir.'

I hear you are always there. Is it
true? The High Bailiff casually stated
the fact without comment, but of course
it's town talk.'

People forget, Reginald,' said his wife,
in the same gentle way, ' that to state a
fact is also to comment upon it, for no one
can be so certain or so unblessed as to state
it quite correctly.'

Stuff!' said the major. ' Emphatically
stuff ! Either Ned is in the habit of spending
most of his time at Claddagh House,
or he isn't. Which is it ?' He turned
stiffly to frown at his son.

I certainly don't spend most of my
time there,' replied Ned, with regret ;
nor do I go there as often as I used todo.'


Surely,' said Mrs. Christorey, ' there
couldn't be a nicer family than the
Colquitts.'

That may be,' said the brittle major,
taking a careful seat ; ' but I wish to
prevent complications, and in these matters
' — as a military man, he felt and looked
rather proud of his foresight — ^ one can
never be too early in the field. The thing
must be stopped at once ; I have other
views for Ned.'

^ I must beg of you, sir,' said Ned, submissively,
'not to prohibit my going to
Claddagh House.'

The major's eyebrows were strangely
arched as he snapped out, ' Why ?'

Because,' replied Ned, firmly, but still

respectfully, ' I should be very grieved to
disobey you.'

This was an astonishing speech from
'Ned the Patient. But, as his father knew,
he could also be Ned the Stubborn. There
was a good deal of momentum in this slow,
heavy fellow, when once he was set going,
and, should it come to a collision between
him and the brittle major, there could be
no question as to which would suffer the
most damage. It was the first time that
Ned had shown the slightest impatience
against the paternal authority, which was
just as stringent in his manhood as it had
been in his boyhood. Had he not been
enlightened by his love for Nessie, he
might still have remained ignorant that
his responsibilities were increasing with
his years — that, having arrived at an age
when he was able to think for himself, he
would be held answerable for his acts,

even though they were dictated by his
father. Unfortunately, this is a side of
the question that parents usually ignore,
forgetting that they are committing a gross
injustice in issuing commands, for the consequences
of which they cannot, except
in a very minor degree, become responsible.
Friendly advice is quite another
matter, but this is what Ned had never
yet got from his father.

The latter was gazing in speechless
astonishment at his son, whose respectful
attitude gave no indication of the rebel.
It was a perilous situation, for a hasty
word might have shattered the happiness
of a family, and only the soldier held in
check the outraged parent. Having given
a command that Ned refused to obey,
Major Christorey was dismayed to find
himself in a cul-de-sac. This strategic blunder,
though anything but soothing to his

temper, appealed strongly to this military-caution,
and, knowing the folly of threatening
what he could not enforce, he had
no wish to court disaster in that direction.
Still, what was he to do ? To withdraw
his command would be to ensure a loss
of the prestige by which alone, as he was
now compelled to admit, his power was
upheld; so that he had to extricate himself
by some other method. He stroked
his chin, and, with an air of surprise, turned
to his wife.

Knowing him well, feeling quite sure
that he would shrink from violent measures
which could only result in general misery,
she had been preparing herself for this,
but, like a woman, spoke as if on the spur
of the moment.

Reginald,' she said, softly, as she clasped
her hands over her fancy-work, to gaze at
him, and yet, as it seemed, beyond him,

^do you remember a beautiful summer
morning twenty-five years ago, when a
young, warm-hearted soldier, wandering
along the banks of the Silverburn, happened
to meet a certain young lady, without
gloves and in a shabby blue dress of
which she was dreadfully ashamed ? Not
expecting to be seen by anybody, she had
gone there to gather forget-me-nots. She
was carrying a bunch of them at the time,
and he asked her if he might have just
one. And when, blushing at her untidy
appearance, yet with a strange, new happiness
at his request, she gave him one of
the little blue flowers, he raised it to his
lips. As she stood there trembling, not
because of the sleepy, staring cows knee-deep
in the water close by, but because
of something, she scarcely knew' what, in
his face, and looks, and words, he took her
gloveless hand — nail-bitten, I'm afraid —

VOL. I. K

and told her of his love. Do you remember
that, Reginald?'

I do,' answered the major, in a strangely
quiet voice for him.

Besides the deeper feelings aroused by
her words, his face showed that he was
puzzled as to what she was leading up to.
This perplexity was evidently shared by
Ned.

And then,' continued Mrs. Christorey,
with a pensive smile, ' he drew her to a
mossy bank where the gorse formed a little
nook on the edge of the stream, and they
both sat down side by side, at first scarcely
speaking for very happiness, and afterwards
building delightful castles in which
their lives were to be spent together. It
was a lovely summer day, a pretty dream.
She had forgotten all about her shabby
blue dress and gloveless hands, she was so

intent upon those bright pictures, though
sometimes she wondered what she had done
to deserve such a wealth of love as he
offered her. Neither of them saw the
dark cloud that was coming upon them,
yet it came that same afternoon. When he
told his parents what had happened, his
father, sitting in this very room, perhaps
in that very chair, angrily declared that
no son of his should marry the untidy girl
in the shabby blue dress. The young-soldier,
he said, must give her up at once.
Do you remember that, Reginald?'

I do,' answered the major. * And I replied,
I'd be hanged if I would.'

That was just like you, Reginald,' said
his wife, smiling, though a tear fell upon
her clasped hands.

I should have been a pitiful cur if I
had said anything else.'

k2

But it led to many heart-burnings, and
the quarrel was long and bitter. Do you
still think you acted rightly ?'

'Most decidedly,' replied her husband,
whose opinions were of no gelatinous
order. Indeed he was in the habit of dealing
out hard case-shot to everybody alike.

You have never repented ? Not a little
bit?'

I hope my wife has no need to ask
that,' answered the major, stiffly.

A man would have shrunk from dois

o

what this gentle lady did ; he would have
argued the matter out with his wife in
private. It was a thoroughly womanly
stratagem that Mrs. Christorey employed,
compromising her husband in the hope of
ensuring peace and happiness for both.
But Awhile she was a mother, she was also
wife enough to provide a way of escape for
her husband without any loss of his

dignity, and this she had reserved for her
climax.

And now, Reginald,' she concluded,
I'm quite sure you don't wish to imitate
the only thing you condemn in your own
father. Think of that far-away summer
morning, and then think of Ned and dear
sweet pretty little Nessie.'

'Ha!' exclaimed the major, with a start.
Then he stared hard at Ned, who was
equally surprised and not a little embarrassed
at this unexpected turn. ' It's
Nessie, is it ? I thought it was Mona.
This is indeed a conspiracy. So Ned has
had the impudence to fall in love without
telling me ?'

Or me,' added Mrs. Christorey.

That's quite a different matter,' said
the major, pleased that no preference had
been shown his wife. ' Well, Ned, if you
wish to marry Nessie, go and do it, but let

there be no more bungling, sir.' A few-minutes
later, when alone with his wife, he
asked, ' Did you know I was thinking of
Mona ?'

I guessed it.'

How could I think otherwise when that
conceited ass Dalrymple is always dangling
about Nessie?'

But she doesn't care for him, I feel
sure.'

Then wh}^ doesn't she send him about
his business ?' He rose from his chair and
paced thoughtfully to and fro for a time.
'The lad is sly,' he said at length, 'uncommonly
sly. There's more in him than
I thought. Will he wdn, do you think ?'

Can you, his father, doubt it ?' asked
Mrs. Christorey with gentle reproof.

Ah ! there lay the secret of her mistake.
What girl could have the heart to refuse
her son? Trouble \vith the self-willed

father lie had foreseen, boldly grappled
with, and overcome; after that, she had
supposed that all would be plain straightforward
sailing. So the affection of the
mother misled the intuition of the woman.
Meanwhile Ned was striding through the
town like a madman. He could never tell
what he had replied to his father or how
he had escaped from the room, he was at
once so delighted and so distressed.
Delighted because one of the formidable
obstacles in his path had been swept away ;
distressed because, if he failed again, that
failure could no longer be concealed from
his mother, who would suffer scarcely less
than himself As he laboured under the
painful idea that his secret was legibly
written in his face, he was not in the least
surprised that she should have read it, but
he could not understand how she had
come to make the mistake she did.

This mistake precipitated matters, for
Ned felt impelled to act immediately. But
instead of going direct to Nessie, he
resolved to make a confidant of his clever
vouno; friend, Frank Maddrell. Arrived
at this resolution, he began to take courage,
and his spirits rose with the exertion of
carrying it out. As he proceeded, walking
and thinking, matters gradually assumed a
different aspect ; in the partial success
which his mother had won for him, he
saw an augury of his final triumph.

Toby, you ugly villain,' he cried to his
shaggy companion, who was always called
the worst names when his master was in
the best humour, * was there ever such a
sweet mother as mine, bless her ! And
that father of mine is a rare good old
fellow too when one can get beneath the
surface. Toby, had you such parents, you
rascal ?'

Poor old blundering Ned, how different
would have been his feelings had he known
that he was going to take counsel with
Nessie's accepted lover ! A terrible blow
it would have been at any time, but here he
was gaily marching to hear his doom from
the lips of his successful rival. Happy and
hopeful in his ignorance he swung along
the narrow streets, deserted by all but a
few shopkeepers who stood at their doors
and touched their hats to him as he went
by. As he neared his goal he instinctively
quickened his pace.

CHAPTER VII.

THE RING.

Frank, being an orphan, lived with his
uncle Jacob Maddrell, a bachelor of threescore
years and ten, who occupied a
rambling old house near the quay. It
was far too big for him : as if a tiny soldier-crab
had taken possession of a huge shell
and, settling itself in a corner, absurdly
supposed it filled the whole. But Jacob
Maddrell was a thorough-paced Madman,
and the house had been his father's home,
wherefore he clung to it with extraordinary
tenacity and was very careful to keep it

much as he had found it, no better and no
worse.

It was chiefly tenanted by rats, not
insipid English rats, but enormous long-tailed
black rats which had taken passage
in Norwegian timber ships, landed in the
harbour, used the drains as their main
thoroughfares and so entered the house.
They seemed to follow naturally enough
in the footsteps of the Norse robbers who
used to hammer at the Castle gates until
molten lead poured upon their heads made
them return sadder and wiser men to their
ships ; only there was no such easy way of
getting rid of their long-tailed followers.
There was a large yard at the back where
they held high carnival in broad daylight,
and never a cat would venture among those
gleaming fangs. Many and many a time
were the servants obliged to flee to the
kitchen-table and shout lustily from that

insular refuge until their master came,
smiling, to drive away some monstrous
creature, or, more often, to find no trace of
it. Jacob Maddrell did not exactly love
the rats, but lie bore them no ill-will. As
they had existed in his father's time, they
might remain until they chose to go.

He was a pleasant amiable old gentleman
with very handsome features, deeply
furrowed though they Avere now. It was
hard to imagine his pale blue e^'es lighting
up with passion ; if they had ever done soit
was before his nephew could remember.
He had long snowy hair, and, unlike the
rest of his fellow-townsmen at this period,
a beard, long white and so silky that anybody
could see it had never been cut.
This was one of his many hobbies, which
are as necessary to old bachelors as cats to
old maids.

When Frank left Claddagh House, his

uncle was sitting in this dark old-fashioned
room with a cabinet of coins in front of
him, and Georgie Colquitt by his side.

The Island having, from the remotest
ages down to comparatively recent timely
been the battleground of the northern
nations when they wanted to fight without
endangering their own territories,
those Manxmen who had money lived ina
chronic state of burying it. In consequence,
coins are being continually turned
uj) by the slough or spade. Many a good
collection has been made there, but few
better than Jacob Maddrell's.

He showed it with child-like pride, and
went as minutely into the history of his
treasures as if Georgie had been a man.
While the boy watched and listened with
wonder-filled eyes which sparkled with
eagerness as some tray of gold coins came
into view, the old man laughed delightedly

at what was to him the sweetest, because
the sincerest form of praise. But presently
it occurred to him that he was doing
rather a selfish thing ; it was, he felt, like
dangling forbidden fruit before the boy.
So, not without a sigh, he selected one of
his duplicates and closed the cabinet.

Would you like this ?' he asked, holding
up the coin.

'Ra-aether!'

Well, you shall have it on one condition
: that you promise me never to
shave.'

After recovering from the shock, Georgie
began to giggle.

I've got nothing to shave,' he said.

So I see,' returned the old man, with a
smile. Then he become grave again, and,
stroking his long white beard, proceeded :
But time will remedy that. When you
grow older, my boy, you will have as much

hair as I have — if you'll leave it alone.
And this is what I want you to promise.
Do you think, Georgie, that you would be
given hair merely for the purpose of cutting
off ? It's a sin — a positive crime to refuse
the gifts of Providence.'

It may be urged that Jacob Maddrell,
to be consistent, should also have allowed
his nails to grow unchecked. And so he
did. His nails were like talons, a curious
termination to an exceedingly mild and
genial old gentleman, although somcAvhat
given to proselytism.

Boy-like, Georgie proceeded to argue
the point. 'But my father shaves, Mr.
Maddrell,' he said, thoughtfully. ' Is he
committing a sin ?'

Ahem ! Of course he's acting according
to his judgment, but '

While he hesitated, a double interruption
occurred to extricate him from his

dilemma. One was a succession of screams
from the kitchen, and the other the"'
entrance of Frank. Georgie, with his
precious coin in his pocket, was immediately
despatched to relieve the garrison,
and armed with the poker, he marched
off boldly to attack the rats which had
presumably been the cause of the disturbance.
Then Frank made his announcement.


'Uncle,' he said, glowing with triumph
^ I have Avon the dearest, sweetest, prettiest
girl in the world.'

Then she shall come and live here.
I'll move up to the top floor. It will do
well enough for the few years that remain
to me.'

'What, you don't ask her name !'

Nessie Colquitt,' said his uncle, with a
sly look and a chuckle.

'How did you find out?' demanded

Frank, astonished that this simple-minded
old bachelor should know what others had
failed to guess.

*By keeping my eyes open. And let
me tell you, Frank, that I consider you an
exceedingly lucky fellow.'

^ And so I am,' replied Frank, warmly
shaking his uncle's hand, ' and so I am.'

And now you'll want some more
money.'

Indeed, no ; not another penny beyond
what I can earn for myself. You allow me
more than you can afford, as it is.'

Nonsense, nonsense ! You must have
money ; young couples can't live on love
and air. You'll want to give Nessie a
handsome present. I'm not very well up
in these affairs myself, but I believe that's
always the first thing. Here,' — he held
out a number of Manx one-pound notes —
this will do something towards it.'

VOL. I. L

'No — no, uncle,' cried Frank, with a
sudden rush of colour to his face. ' You
are exceedingly kind, but it must be bought
with my own money. I'm off now to
Douglas to o-et it.' And he moved towards
the door.

As you will,' said the old man. ' I
shall devote this money to buying Nessie
a present on my own account. And, Frank,'
he called softly after him, ' bring her here
as soon as possible. I am anxious to see
my boy's future wife.'

And, by George ! so you shall, uncle,'
exclaimed Frank. ' What a brick the old
boy is !' he added to himself as he hurried
into the hall, where he stood a few minutes
before going out into the street.

There was a horse of the old Manx breed,
saddled and bridled, waiting for him at the
door. A boy had just brought it round
from the dilapidated stable behind the yard.

It was a short-legged, long-backed animal
with, a coat like a Shetland pony. But, in
spite of its unprepossessing appearance,
Frank could make it go like the mind.
To-day his love was spurring him hard, so
he plied the whip unmercifully. He tore
down Richmond Hill at breakneck speed,
and, eventually pulling up at a little,
old-fashioned inn on Douglas quay, delivered
his nag in a lather of foam to the
ostler.

Frank now began to ransack the jewellers'
shops. Never before had a young
man been so impatient and so hard to
please. He wanted something that Ben
Varrey herself would be delighted to wear.
None of your rubbish, added he, pointing
scornfully to a ring that the jeweller was
offering with fatherly pride ; but a magnificent
jewel that would make the waves
look as black as thunder-clouds, and set

l2

with gems as pure as Nessie herself. This
was a big order. With a sigh, the tradesman
shook his head and pointed significantly
across the water.

But at last Frank discovered a pretty
trinket, set with pearls and diamonds
which took his fancy. Its price was very
extravagant for a young advocate with few
clients ; but what did that matter so long
as Nessie was pleased ! The only question
was, would it fit ? Having forgotten to
obtain the size of her finger, he bashfully
explained that she was the right height fora
woman and asked whether the ring was
likely to fit. The jeweller declared it
would be the very thing, whereupon Frank,
after admiring it poised on the tip of his
little finger, bought it and returned to the
inn. This would be a red-letter day in his
life, he kept telling himself during the
homeward journey. More than once he

was obliged to stop in order to peep at his
prize, nestling snugly in its satin-lined
case. How he envied the little gold
circlet which was to be Nessie's close and
lifelong companion ! He rehearsed a neat
speech and pictured her delight at receiving
his gift. In short, he felt supremely
happy.

Thus it was that, meeting Diana Knight
as he was going on foot to Claddagh
House, he proudly produced the ring and
asked her opinion of it. Had he possessed
eyes for aught but Nessie, he would have
seen a wave of colour rush into the
beautiful face, the brilliant eyes darken
With surprise only to sparkle with delight
immediately afterwards, and the graceful
figure sway as if it had found something
to lean upon and need no longer preserve
its independent uprightness. He did
notice that she was trembling as she took

the ring, but his mind was too preoccupied
to think about it.

It is very lovely, Frank,' she murmured.


'I'm so glad you like it,' he exclaimed.
Whom do you think it's for?'

They were standing on the Douglas
Road beneath a high garden wall, with the
sunlit bay on the other side of them. Diana,
blushing, raised her eyes for a moment to
Frank's eager face and then bent them
upon a white-winged schooner, which was
gliding towards the harbour. The vessel
had been long delayed by contrary winds,
its cargo was urgently needed, and there
was a crowd standing by the lighthouse on
the pierced to welcome it. Diana's
meaning was plain enough, but Frank
could not see it. So she said, in a low
whisper,

Tell me her name, Frank.'

'Nessie Colquitt. I'm engaged to —
what !'

Diana lead dropped the ring as if it had
stung her : had, indeed, actually spurned
it away from her with both hands. And, unheeded
by either, it was lying on the dusty
limestone road at their feet. No longer
blushing, but white as marble, she stood
erect with flashing eyes and quivering
lips, as magnificent in her wrath as she was
beautiful in her softer moods.

'And you,' she cried, 'you dare to tell
me this !'

'What? why not?' stammered Frank,
staring, and still holding the empty case.

Convinced by his obvious astonishment
and dismay that he had not meant to insult
her, she changed like lightning. But
the tears, which should have accompanied
the change, were wanting. This was clearly
a danger-signal.

Are you an arch flatterer, Frank ? ' she
asked, with a saucy ripple of laughter.
^ Or, have I really deceived you ?'

I don t understand you now, Diana.'

Pick up that ring first and put it in
your pocket. There, that's better. Didn't
you know I was acting? No? Then I
must be an admirable actress. But, dear
me, I forgot you had never been to a
theatre in your life. Oh, Frank, how
insular you are !'

Whether or not Frank had yet got an
inkling of the truth, he could scarcely feel
sure she had not been doing a thing which
he had never seen. Moreover, Diana had
artfully led him away to reflect on his
ignorance of the world. While he was still
blushing at that, the most dreadful thing
to a young man, she brought him sharp
round to his favourite topic.

Mermaids fell in love once, didn't they,
Frank ?' said she, slily watching.

Oh, yes.'

Tell me the story.'

Ben Varrey was once in love,' began
Frank, ever ready to narrate one of the old
Manx legends ; * in love with a mortal,
whom she wanted to marry her. No doubt
it was very shocking of her not to wait till
she was asked, but they manage these
things differently beneath the sea. Everyday
she used to bring him the most beautiful
presents — corals and pearls and precious
stones of every kind, and on one
occasion this forward young mermaid even
Event so far as to pat his cheek. It was no
use, however ; he felt that in her company
he would be out of his element. Now,
Ben Varrey has a temper — yes, a very awkward
temper, sometimes. And, being

greatly vexed at her want of success, she
picked up a stone, struck the backward
young man with it, and disappeared.
After lingering in agony, the poor fellow
died : a sad ending to a love-story.'

Very. And Ben Varrey is still alive ?'
Yes ; living happily in her coral halls.'
'Then,' said Diana, lightly, * the moral
is, that a young man should think twice
before refusing a mermaid's love. Goodbye,
Frank.' But with a softer, almost
pathetic touch, she added : ' Believe me, I
wish you every blessing and every happiness
the world can give.' Without appearing
to see the hand he held out to her, she
turned and glided away.

But, oh, the look of agony that came
into her face as soon as she could safely
throw aside the mask ! A deadly faintness
seized upon her, and she staggered to the
sea-wall and leaned upon it until the breeze

had fanned fresh life into her veins. It
was a strange contrast between the beautiful
sea and the beautiful woman : the one
lazily basking in the sunlight, now trifling
With the pebbles at its edge and now murmuring
its content, its very existence a
pleasure on this glorious afternoon ; and
the other bereft of hope and torn by the
strife of many contending passions. The
laughter that floated shoreward seemed a
mockery of her anguish. Her life, so bright
a few short minutes ago, had become a
dreary pilgrimage-without a shrine.

Utterly desperate though she felt, Diana
was not blind to surrounding objects, and
seeing in the distance a couple of men,
who turned out to be Captain Nugent and
Fabian Dalrymple, she resumed her way
towards the town. By the time they overtook
her, the most practised eye could not
have detected in her the least sign of distress.

She was again, what they always
found her, a fascinating young widow, a
charming coquette.

Among other things she told them, as if
it were a pleasant piece of gossip, of Frank's
engagement : a subject that no ordinary
woman in the same position would have
ventured upon, even if she had not shudderingly
recoiled from it. If Diana shed
to test her nerves, she succeeded to perfection
; there was not the smallest quiver in
her voice, and she looked steadily, with
a mischievous smile, at Dalrymple. His
success would have aided her and her
success would have aided him, so there
had been a sort of tacit alliance between
them, which mio^ht or misfht not be drawn
closer in the future. As we already know,
he was not altogether unprepared for her
announcement, and could therefore meet
her gaze without flinching. But when he

had learnt all lie knew on the subject,
lie turned the conversation into another
channel.

After escorting Diana to her own door,
the two officers walked in silence to the
barracks. Until the captain had lighted a
cigar and taken a chair by the endow, and
the subaltern had administered a pinch of
snuff to his prehensile nose and deposited
his lengthy body in the easy-chair opposite,
not a word passed between them. Then
the former, slowly blowing out a cloud
of smoke, looked at his friend and
ejaculated :

'Weir?'

Didn't I tell you so ?' said Dalrymple,
coolly. So deep-rooted is the prophetic
spirit that he even felt a certain pleasure
in the verification of a prediction which
was unfavourable to himself.

'You did. Is that all?'

For the present.'

I'm glad of it.'

But,' said Dalrymple in that indolent
way of his, ' there's more to come. My
race with the choleric islander is only just
begun. He is as far off winning the mermaid's
hand as I am.'

'How so?'

While a man is fighting for himself,
events are fighting either for or against
him. They are against me at present, but
if I bide my time I shall have them on my
side. My maxim is. Wait. Snuff, Nugent ?'
added he, with a yawn. ^ No ! Then I'll
take five to one against my being the
winner of the Manx handicap.'

CHAPTER VIII.

FROM LIGHT TO DARKNESS.

For Frank, Diana's conduct was but the
puzzle of a moment, he was in such a whirl
of excitement. He found Nessie in the
wilderness of a garden, and, standing
beneath an old apple-tree whose outstretched
arms seemed to be invoking a blessing
upon them, presented the ring. She was
naturally delighted with it, though her
feelings were expressed by looks rather
than by words, for she was as shy as if it
were her wedding-day. They enacted a
pretty little scene such as most lovers

have gone through — he standing with his
arms around her, and she coyly hiding her
sweet young face against his breast, laughing
a little as he showed her the ring on
the tip of his thumb, and trembling a little
as with an absurd pretence of exertion, he
transferred it to her wee finger.

And now, darling, a kiss,' he said.

Blushing, her hazel eyes suffused with
love and happiness, she turned up her
sweet rosebud of a mouth, and after he had
kept her so for a provokingly long time —
until, indeed, he could gaze clown at her
no longer — their lips met as if they never
would part again. But Cain the Leg,
leisurely stumping round the garden,
happened to bring his ruddy face exactly
over a gooseberry bush opposite, whereupon
the young couple started asunder like
india-rubber balls and began to walk very
demurely towards the house.

Mrs. Colquitt and Mona met and congratulated
them in the hall, after which
Nessie showed the ring on her finger.

Yes,' said Mrs. Colquitt, inspecting it
with the critical eye of the matron, ' it's
very pretty. But could you afford it,
Frank ?'

He Evinced at this, for she had touched
him on a very sore point, but he was
partly consoled by feeling Nessie's soft
hand steal into his. A warning look from
Mona had told Mrs. Colquitt that she had
done Avrong, and had probably nipped in
the bud some horrible tale. So, to set
matters straight, she added :

Well, well ! I suppose a little extravagance
is allowable in young people at a
time like this.'

She now got a nudge from Mona, and
after returning a cold stare of inquiry,
vanished into the sitting-room, whence she

VOL. I. M

soon emerged dragging her husband by the
ear — metaphorically. Ordered to admire
the ring, he rubbed his shrivelled hands
and meekly obeyed.

It was late in the afternoon when Frank
left the house. On his way home it occurred
to him that he might as well look in at
his office. And there he found — a client ?
No, nothing so extraordinary — Ned Chris-tore,
looking the very picture of patience.

Frank's office, being rather a curiosity,
merits a short description. It was situated
in a small house on the quay, close to the
guard-room by the castle gate. A man
and his wife occupied the house, all but
the two front rooms on the ground floor,
which were let one to Frank and the other
to [Mr. John Moore, another advocate, as
the names on the wire-blinds of their
respective windows testified. The wire-blind
was almost the only legal-looking

thing in Frank's office. There was usually
attached to his door, however, a card bearing
this inscription, ' Back in five minutes ;'
or this, ' In Court ;' or something else
suggesting the same idea of immense pressure
of business. Nobody was ever able to
ascertain the exact principle which guided
Frank in selecting the particular card for
use, but he certainly shuffled them about
at intervals. Once inside the office, the
visitor intent on law was surprised to see a
collection of ropes, sails, and oars in one
corner, a number of guns in another, and
in a third an ingenious cooking apparatus
with all the necessary materials, placed on
the top of an old-fashioned sideboard which
served as a cellaret. The walls were decorated
with flags, the table was strewn with
fishing-tackle but the books were nowhere
to be seen.

The reader, thinking of the earnest and

M 2

impulsive Frank who has so far figured in
these pages, may also be surprised by this
peep into his office, and, judging of him as
an advocate, Avrong the man. It must,
therefore, be pointed out that until now
no definite object had been set before him.
To live as his father had lived, was Jacob
Maddrell's maxim ; and Frank, who had in
some measure imbibed the same idea, could
do this without much effort. It may bethe
beautiful scenery or the genial climate
or the vitality of old traditions, but, whatever
the cause, it is no easy matter to take
life seriously in the Isle of Man. There
are exceptions, of course, but they only
serve to prove, or rather to show the rule.
Every now and again there comes a gale
beating wildly against a lee-shore, a battered
vessel heaves in sight, and then there is
no lack of clear heads, strong arms, and
resolute wills. Such a gale had already

threatened Frank, and, though he had
weathered it safely, he had also reached a
position in which he was compelled to go
forward with all possible speed. Henceforth,
he would have to work, if not for
his own sake, at least for Nessie's.

And it was Nessie that Ned had come to
talk about. In order to keep up his
courage, he had been punching out wads,
which now stood in piles upon the table.
Notwithstanding these efforts, a sudden
timidity came over him at Frank's entrance,
and his carefully-prepared programme
collapsed. Rising to his feet, he said,
awkwardly,

Hullo, Frank ! Here you are at last.
Your five minutes has been a long one.'

Yes,' laughed the advocate. ' Sit down,
Ned. Is this a professional visit? I'm
going in for law in earnest now.'

No, not exactly,' answered Ned, resuming

his clair and taking up the punch
again. ' I want to consult you about a
delicate affair.'

Go ahead, old chap.' He took a seat on
the table, and, seeing Ned's embarrassment,
resolved to defer his own announcement
until afterwards.

Well,' said Ned, rushing his fence as
usual, ' I'm desperately in love.'

^ In love !' exclaimed Frank, staring
hard.

It struck him as a singular thing that
this ungainly young man should have
fallen a victim to the tender passion.
Somehow or other, we are apt to regard an
unhandsome exterior as an infallible safeguard
against any affection of the heart.
It sounds odd, but so it is. Though Frank
was beginning to appreciate many of Ned's
excellent qualities, he could not resist a
smile, as he added :

Why, Ned, I thought you were a confirmed
old bachelor — one who likes newspapers
and carpet-slippers and grog and
hobbies, but hates women — like my uncle,
you know. I congratulate you with all
my heart.'

But,' said Ned, nervously playing with
the punch, 'I don't know whether it is
matter for congratulation. That's just
what I want to find out. And I should
like you to advise me, if you will.'

Certainly, Ned, you may depend upon
me,' returned Frank, warmly. He was
flattered by this mark of confidence, and
considered it a tribute to his own success
in love-making, even though that success
was as yet unknown to Ned.

Well, to commence with, I've been
rejected.'

'Rejected! Poor old fellow, I'm very
sorry indeed to hear it. Then I should

certainly say, it's not matter for congratulation
— unless the lady is old and ugly

She's an angel, Frank. You'll say so
too, I know. But what am I to do now ?
Should I try again? Frank, I'm almost
beside myself with thinking.'

Try again by all means, so long as you
do it with discretion,' said this young
professor of hearts. ' I know very well
what to do, though I don't always do it.
That's the annoying part of the thing.
It's so easy to see the right ; but when you
are going to follow it, something is dropped
upon you to stir you up, and bang ! go
all your good resolutions. Still, you will
hind my advice sound, for all that : keep near
her as much as possible ,* be always ready
to pop in quietly and help her ; show her
that you mean business and that there's no
nonsense about you; but, above everything,
don't worry her, for nagging may gain the

hand, but never the heart. That's my idea,
at any rate. What did she say to you, Ned ?
Did she give you any encouragement ?'

Ned, poor fellow, tried hard to smile ashe
pronounced the dreadful words : ' She
said it would be a strange thing for us to
think of marriage. Not very hopeful, was
it ? She meant we had been too friendly,
I suppose. I don't understand it, but that's
what she said.'

^ May I know her name ?' asked Frank,
who was thinking of Mona.

Nessie.'

Hearing a sudden movement, Ned raised
his great grey eyes for the first time to
Frank's face, and was startled to see there a
look of horror. Not even then did any
glimmering of the truth break in upon him.
He stared in blank perplexity, while his
friend, who was compelled to deal him a
deadly blow, was trying to collect his

/

thoughts. A sailor's chorus came from
one of the vessels in the harbors, children
could be heard playing upon the quay,
but inside the queer little advocate's office
there was complete silence.

Oh, IS'ed, my friend, this is terrible !'
said Frank, with a gasp. ' No, don't — for
mercy's sake, don't look this way ! Lookout
of the window, anywhere but at me I
Oh, but it's cruel that you should have to
learn this thing from me. Believe me,
Ned, I was as ignorant of your feelings as
you still are of mine. Now, listen, Ned,
listen, but don't look round! Only this
very morning I thought myself the happiest
man in the world, because '

'I know — I know,' exclaimed Ned, in a
voice of great agitation, as he rose hastily
from his seat. There was a pause before
he added : ' I can't congratulate you yet,
Frank, but I will — indeed I will in a very

little time. I ought to feel happy when

she is happy, and you too ; but Come,

Toby,' said he to the dog, which thereupon
emerged from beneath the sideboard. The
door closed, and he was gone.

Frank speedily followed, the atmosphere
of the office having become too oppressive
to hold him. Scarcely noticing whither
he went, he walked to Scarlettt and sat
down on the rocks near the Stack. By a
singular coincidence, it happened to be the
very spot where his unfortunate friend had
been refused by Nessie. There is no need
to enter into his reflections; it will be
sufficient to say that they dealt chiefly
with the contrast between his own happiness
and Ned's misery. After sitting a
while on the porphyritic dyke, he began to
retrace his steps, mounting the limestone
valley on his way, and pausing at the top
to gaze seawards.

And now what was that that caught his
eye? A full-rigged barque sailing past
the bay, in the direction of Douglas : a
stately ship with tall rakish masts and all
her canvas set, for the breeze was light
and fitful. She was making fair headway
against the tide, and had reached the
Skerranes at the extremity of Langness
when a strange thing happened — she remained
perfectly still, though the little
white waves were curling away in her
wake. And there for a quarter-of-an-hour
she remained, motionless yet sailing hard
the whole time, not gaining or losing an
inch ; and then the breeze failed, and foot
by foot the current swept her backwards
until she was hidden by the Stack as she
went away stern foremost towards the
Calf. Here was a curious sight, teaching
a lesson that made Frank tremble. It was
Dalrymple's concluding speech to Nugent,

put in pictorial form ; and it said as plainly
as could be that, let man struggle as lie
may, let him be never so deserving, if
events fight against him his puny efforts
are in vain.

Frank, naturally associating it with his
most precious treasure, Nessie, resolved to
put his shoulder to the wheel without delay.
If any disaster should occur at the
last moment, it should not be caused by
want of work on his part. So next morning,
when the Castle clock struck ten, he
was already seated in his office. A few
minutes later, greatly to his surprise, there
entered a client, a certain Dick Plague, of
whom it will be necessary to give a brief
sketch.

Commencing life as an errand-boy in a
draper's shop, he had, by honesty, hardheaded
shrewdness, and dogged perseverance,
worked his way up to the position of

chief assistant ; saved a considerable sum
of money ; invested it by taking shares in
bearing-cutters — luggers belong to a more
recent date — all of which had proved most
remunerative ; with resolute self-denial invested
the interest in the same way ; and
was now, at the age of forty-five, engaged
in negotiating with the draper for a
partnership in the business. His mother
thought he had attained a most dangerous
elevation. She was a good, old-fashioned
soul who wore an immense white cap and
horn-rimmed spectacles, and pinned her
faith to her spinning-wheel and her Bible.
To her simple mind, it was a presumptuous
thing for Dick to attempt to leave
the station in which he had been born.
She often prophesied that no good would
come of such vanity, and referred to the
fate of the foolish builders of Babel.
Though proud of him in a way, she

thought him a little worldly, this stalwart,
loose-limbed, determined-looking son
of hers, who cared not whose toes he trod
on so long as he was pushing ahead.
Perhaps she was right. At any rate, he
even pointed to a future when he would
quit the trade level, purchase land — which
used to be the aim of every Madman,
even the peasants having their little plots
and retire as a country gentleman, with
the glorious possibility of being elected a
member of the House of Keys. When
Dick ventured upon this lofty platform,
Mrs. Plague always lifted up her hands in
pious horror.

His present business was to instruct
Frank to draw out the deed of partnership.
He had chosen his advocate for
rather a curious reason — sympathy, strongly
flavoured, however, with the spirit of
patronage which often makes men of his

stamp so obnoxious. The news of Frank's
engagement having flashed through the
town, Plague no sooner heard it than,
being himself engaged to a very nice girl
called Ruth Teare, he expressed his intention
of 'giving young Maddrell the
job.'

If,' said he to Frank, ' you give satisfaction
in this, maybe I'll be able to put
a thing or two more in your way. I don't
say for certain, for I won't be bound at
all. But Avhat Dick Plague says he'll
stick to, as everybody knows.'

With unusual meekness, Frank promised
to do his best.

Plague, who had brought with him a
weighty box, strapped and sealed, then
went on to explain that it contained the
money which he had received on the
previous day from the sale of his shares
in the herring-cutters. The purchaser had

offered him notes, but he was much too
cautious for that; he would take only
gold, and Alas so afraid of losing it that
he had slept with it by his bedside, and
would not go anywhere without it. Was
Macdonald's Bank sound ? he wanted to
know.'

'■ As sound as Spanish Head,' replied
Frank. ^ But remember, Plague, that is
only my private opinion, so you must
take it for what it's worth. My imcle is
a shareholder, at any rate ; so is Mr. Col-quite
; and so are many others in the town.'

Ay, I know that,' said Plague, who had
all the suspiciousness of a self-made man,
sand was counting' on it a bit. You've
never heard a word against the bank,
then?'

Not a word.'

Plague lurched off, carrying his box
with him. He went to the office of the

VOL. I. N

bank, a dingy little house in Arboryy
Street. Saturday being market-day, a
number of farmers were continually dropping
in and out, as also were many fishermen
whose boats lay tightly packed in
the harbour, their week's fishing having
come to an end. But, after a short delay,
Plague secured a private interview with
the managing director and chief shareholder,
Mr. Macdonald, a high-boned
Scotchman, with long dark, hair curiously
polished, and a shifty eye. On this occasion
he looked at the papers before
him, in the drawers of his writing-table,
at the carpet ; but never once at Plague,
who nevertheless accepted his assurances,
and left the money.

That evening Frank told his uncle of
his new client, and laughingly mentioned
Plague's cautious inquiries about the bank.

I have just heard,' said the old gentleman,
quite coolly, as he looked up from a
coin which he was cleaning, ' a very ugly
rumour about it

what!' cried Frank, starting to his
feet.

If my authority is correct, we have all
been misled by false balance-sheets, and
the bank, instead of being in a prosperous
condition, has been insolvent for years.'

Great heavens, uncle ! and you sit there
and calmly tell me that !'

But, my boy,' said Jacob . Maddrell,
with grave surprise, ' what's the good of
worrying about it ? We can't do anything
until Monday morning at the very earliest.'

Nero fiddled while Rome was burning
because his own carcase was safe enough ;
but here was this pleasant old gentleman
of seventy amusing himself with one of

N 2

his pet hobbies while all that he possessed
was being consumed ! Amazed, angry
terror-stricken, Frank flung himself out of
the room, and rushed straight ofl* to Nessie,
the only person in the world who
could say or do anything to console him.
Yet she and her family would also be
ruined. Perhaps even the engagement
might have to be abandoned, for, neither
of them having any money, how could they
dream of marriage ? When Frank thought
of that tide-driven barque oiF Scarlettt, he
felt Avell-nigh desperate.

On the drawbridge — a quaint old wooden
structure, with massive corner posts and
great bars overhead, from which chains
dangled and clanked in a very gallows-like
way — he met Dick Plague, and told
him what he had just heard, thereby doing
the very thing most likely to bring down
the bank, if it were still solvent. Plague

-turned white to the lips ; his eyes glared,
his breast heaved, and his fists were
clenched. Though there was scarcely
enough light to trace the forest of masts
on the sky behind him, one glance at his
distorted features was enough to show
that the inherent power which had enabled
him to climb to his present height might,
his one prop gone, cast him down to depths
far below those from which he had risen.
He looked a perfect demon. Even the
phlegmatic fishermen who were lolling
about, chewing tobacco and conversing in
occasional monosyllables, were struck with
his attitude, and long afterwards remembered
it. Though his lips moved, he never
uttered a word, but strode away past the
castle, and so disappeared.

In the presence of this man's mighty
passions, Frank had for the moment forgotten
his own. But they soon resumed

full sway, and he started oiF again for
Claddagh House, where he found the family
at supper.

CHAPTER IX.

AN ACCOMPLISHED FACT.

Instead of gadding about the country as
usual, the rooks always spent the greater
part of Sunday morning upon the castle
walls, wearing a peculiarly solemn air as
they inspected the people going to church.
They may have been the degenerate descendants
of a superior race of Sabbath-observers,
and so have retained merely an
indistinct remembrance that something
different ought to happen on that day ; or
they may have been moved to admiration
of the gay dresses, or to astonishment at
the black coats and top-hats which were

reserved for these occasions and funerals ;
or there may have been some more subtle
reason for their conduct. But, whatever
the cause, such is the fact.

On this particular Sunday, most of the
people they saw going to St. Mary's might
with advantage have taken a lesson from
them, for almost everybody displayed a
strange excitement. They hurried to and
fro ; they talked in agitated whispers ; they
crowded around the door and then poured
in all at once, but not until Mr. Hudson
had taken his place in ^ the three-decker,'
which, however, more resembled three
large goblets stuck together. The 
was already in his great
square box at the end of the gallery, nth
the three officers in scarlet close by, and
the men ranged against the wall behind ;
and he looked down with surprise at this
sudden rush, for the rumour about the

bank lead not yet reached his ears.

As time went by, it was noticed as an
ominous coincidence that Mr. Macdonald
did not appear. It was also noticed that
the High Bailiff, whose pew contained a
convenient cupboard and a fireplace, handed
his gold snufF-box about with unusual
frequency, and as he always did this when
his mind was disturbed, it was considered

a very bad sign. It was also noticed

But what will not people notice in church,
and, when their nerves are highly strung,
twist this way and that ?

Nessie and Ned entered almost together,
but he dared not look at her, nor she at
him. They were closely followed by Frank,
who showed his feelings more plainly than
either. For the bitterness of death was
past with Ned — he had learnt his doom ;
and Nessie had acquired the Womanly art
of smiling when she suffered ; but Frank,

whose features were as outspoken as his
words, was enduring the agony of suspense.
He had spent a sleepless night, as
his face bore witness.

The very last arrival, alas ! was Diana
Knightonon, and her entrance created a
great sensation, which she had perhaps
counted upon. As the pews faced every
way — so that you might be rubbing noses
with your bitterest enemy — it was necessary
for many to turn round in order to
get a good view of anyone approaching.
And there was a general turning along the
whole line and a most distracting rustle of
silks as Diana walked demurely in after
her meek old mother, and was observed to
have doffed her widow's weeds for gay
apparel, in which she looked superbly
beautiful. All were astonished ; but, while
the men could not admire her enough, the
women unanimously professed themselves

shocked. To drop her mourning all of a
sudden — had the memory of a husband
ever been so slighted before! It just
proved, they said, her utter heartlessness.
As a matter of fact, it proved the very
reverse, though it had of course nothing
to do with the rumours about the bank.
Indeed, she did not hear them until after
service : a service that struck everybody as
being abnormally tedious.

Seldom has a clergyman laboured under
greater disadvantages than the old chaplain
did this morning. Even the leathery
old clerk who preceded him up the stairs
to the highest goblet, stood there forgetting
to open the door. When Mr. Hudson
began to preach, he felt that little he said
would penetrate beyond the ears of his
flock. Painfully aware that he had brought
his longest sermon, a good old-fashioned
discourse divided into thirteen heads, he

was wondering whether he could alleviate
it, when a singular interruption occurred.

A bent old woman — his own servant
and a character in her way, as he was in
his — poked her head in at the church-door
and, imperiously beckoning to him, called
out :

Come down from above there, or the
he'll be parched.'

I doubt, Martha,' replied the chaplain,
as all smiled pleasantly at one another like
members of the same family, ' if it can get
as dry as they think me up here.' And
whether or not he was afraid of having his
dinner spoilt, he soon afterwards brought
his sermon to an end.

The church was emptied in a marvellously
short space of time. Instead of
dispersing, the congregation remained in
the market-place, which was dotted allover
with groups, some going as far as the

"bank to stare anxiously at the closed door
and shuttered windows. When the military,
drawn up in line outside St. Mary's,
had saluted His Excellency and marched off
to the barracks, there was nothing to divert
attention from the chief topic of the day, and
everybody attacked it with a will. Diana
heard it from a number of advocates who
clustered around her, and it gave her
quite a shock. But when she had learnt
it was merely a rumour, she regained her
usual gaiety.

^ I want you all to help me in a little
conspiracy,' she laughingly said to thenio
'There's Frank, an engaged man, doing
his utmost to monopolise Nessie, though
he will soon have her all to himself It's
unfair. Now, suppose some of you look
after Nessie, and I — well, I'll sacrifice myself,
and take charge of this selfish young
man.'

They went like sheep : with only one
idea in their foolish heads — to please her.
Left to herself, Diana had no difficulty in
capturing Frank, whose fears she tried
hard, but vainly, to allay. Recognising
the strength of his forebodings, she changed
her tactics.

Do you remember,' she said, earnestly,
*when telling me the story of Tehi-tegi,
the picture you drew of the deluded
Manxmen crouching on the banks of the
dark river as they waited for death?'

Yes, I remember it,' replied Frank, with
a puzzled look.

has it never struck you that they
might have done better? In repairing
their ruined cottages and tilling their
neglected fields, for example ?'

^ But there comes a time for some poor
crushed things when nothing remains for
them but to lie down and die.'

*It's not very manly of them, Frank
said Diana yet lier voice and tones showed
pity rather than reproof.

It's human, though.'

Still, as a Manxman whose self-reliant
motto is Quocunque Jeers Habit, would
you do that, Frank ? Wouldn't you fight
on to the bitter end, determined, if possible,
to pluck a little victory out of a big
defeat ?'

Yes, I think I should.'

It is hard to be confronted by an
accomplished fact — very hard. But then
what can we do ?'

Nothing but submit in that direction
and peg ahead in another,' answered Frank,
with a look of gratitude at Diana, whose
kindly words of encouragement seemed
to annul the teaching of the tide-driven
barque.

Quite so,' assented Diana, with satisfaction.

'And now added she, dashing into
a lighter mood as Mrs. Sherwood came up
smiling, ^ here is a worthy example for you
Frank. Mother has a most unwomanly
way of accepting an accomplished fact.
She never nags — when nothing is to be
gained by nagging ; do you, mother mine ?
The dog that worried the cow with the
crumpled horn got tossed for its pains ;
and I, having a very keen crumpled horn
and she a strong objection to being tossed,
why, you see, we get on very well together.*
What nonsense you do talk, Diana !'
said Mrs. Sherwood, an Indian-looking old
lady ; by which is meant that her fingers
were covered with rings, her shawl and
lace had a decidedly oriental appearance,
her figure was very spare, her skin brown
and wrinkled, and her expression as if such
spirit as she had once possessed had been
evaporated by a hot sun.

Don't you think, Frank she said,
diana's looking very ill this morning?'

Diana could not meet his eye, though he
could meet hers. She changed colour
beneath his steady gaze, and the change
showed the more clearly how pale she had
been before.

She went oiF for a long walk by herself,'
continued Mrs. Sherwood, ' in the cold night
air and caught a chill.'

^ There, mother, that'll do,' interrupted
Diana, hastily. ^ Good-morning, Frank !
I suppose you are going to dine at Claddagh
House ?'

Yes,' he replied. ' Good-morning, Mrs.
Sherwood. Good-morning, Diana.' And,
taking oiF his hat, he hurried off to join
the Colquitts who had already started for
home.

Among those who still remained in
the market-place was Fabian Dalrymple,

VOL. I. o

looking taller than ever in his uniform.
After marching his men back to the barracks,
he had returned to see what was
going on. To his credit, be it said that, as
if he too had sat at the feet of the beautiful
Diana who could preach so fluently
about resignation, he had made no attempt
to force himself upon Nessie. The cordon
which he had established around her, had
been broken down, and, notwithstanding
the quizzical remarks made to him by
several old ladies who were rather annoyed
to find their predictions falsified, he showed
no disposition to repair the damage. A
few polite words were all that he exchanged
with her ; then he passed on, amusing
himself, in his cynical languid way, with
watching the progress of what he called * a
storm in a teapot.'

Yet the subject had a deeper interest for
him than he cared to show. Afterwards,

-vvlien he sauntered into the captain's
room, he said with that peculiar smile of
his :

f The tide, you see, has turned already.*

How so V

'Why, if this bank really breaks, the
Colquitts and Maddrells will be ruined.
Then, no patrimony, no matrimony, you
know.'

Nugent laid down his cigar to stare.
Do you mean to tell me, Dalrymple,' he
said, dropping out the words one by
one, ' that you are such a heartless fellow
as all that ?'

Without seeming to hear, Dalrymple
raised a Maori blow-tube to his mouth,
and, leaning out of the window, deliberately
'potted' a dog trotting across the
market-place. The dog gave a howl, stopped
to look round for its assailant, and, seeing
none, bolted in terror.

o2

^ I owed that dog a grudge,' said Dalrymple,
^ and now I've paid him. Heartless?
No. Would you be heartless if
you took advantage of a confusion in the
enemy's ranks to charge? But I don't
even do that ; I merely bide my time.'

'In other words, you are waiting and
wishing for the ruin of the very girl you
profess to love — the mermaid, as you call
her.'

Stop a bit, Nugent. I have money,
remember : more money probably than she
will lose. And, if I win her, she is welcome
to it all. Why, I don't bear malice even
against the choleric islander. After I
have defeated him, if I can help him I
will.'

So you seriously think that this girl
will abandon her lover when his money is
gone !'

Dalrymple shrugged his shoulders.

^ What a fellow you are to argue !' lie
said. 'Such things have been before and
will be again. But let me tell you another
thing : I have got my eye on a dark horse
for the Manx handicap — that lubberly
fellow Christorey, if you please. I have
suspected it for some time : I felt certain
when I saw his manner in church this
morning. He may prove dangerous, but — '
He ended with a pinch of snuff.

The next day opened with fog, which
about eight o'clock changed to a dense
Scotch mist. It curtained oiF the sky,
the land, and the sea — which made its
moan plainly audible, however — and
seemed to narrow the universe down to
this little grey town ; in the centre of
which towered Castle Rushen like some
hoary giant who possessed the power of
continually changing his shape.

While the morning was still young,

many pale faces came out of the mist,,
and, peering about like travellers from
another world, clustered in the marketplace.
Farmers' carts poured into the
town, as on a Saturday, and the farmers
themselves, in their shaggy top-hats and
swallow-tail coats made of some rough blue
materia], joined the rapidly increasing
crowd. The fishermen mustered in
great strength, for the herring-fleet did
not put to sea at all on this Black Monday,
so the Manxmen were reinforced by
a large number of Scotch, Irish, and
Cornishmen, drawn to the scene by curiosity.
Many of the peasantry were
there, many tradesmen, many women,
and even many servant-girls who had
deposited their small savings in the bank.

Arboryy Street was completely blocked
by a silent, patient throng, staring fixedly
at the door. The three constables in

the town tried to get the people to move
on, but might as well have spoken to a
limestone cliff. The advocates were more
sprightly ; at least such of them as would
lose nothing and might gain much, for
the matter promised a flourishing crop of
law-suits. Among those who stood on
the outskirts of the crowd were Major
Christorey and Fabian Dalrymple, though
they were neither shareholders nor depositors
; and Jacob Maddrell and Mr. Colquitt
who were both, the former improving the
occasion by lecturing the latter on the sin
of shaving off the gift of Providence.
Frank kept to no particular spot ; he was
in such torture that he rushed about
everywhere. And Dick Plague? He
stood nearest the bank-door. At an
early hour he had taken up his position
there, and never moved from it or uttered
a word. His muscles were in knots, and

his face wore the awful grim look of a
man whose stormy passions run deep.

Every now and again eyes where directed
towards the Castle clock, scarcely visible
through the mist that fitfully danced
around it, and the progress of the single
hand towards the hour of ten was watched
with feverish anxiety. When that time
approached, the excitement became intense.
The separate groups were wedged
in one great crowd — a crowd of heterogeneous
atoms that for the moment
thought, felt, hoped, and breathed in
unison. Such was the tension of their
feelings that, when at length the first
stroke of ten fell upon the silence, it
wrung from each a cry, a sigh, or a
murmur, according to the organization.
This only intensified the silence that followed.
Those in front stared the more
doggedly, and those behind stood on tiptoe.

Five minutes went by, and the door
still remained closed. Ten minutes, and
no change. A quarter-of-an-liour ! Half
an-lour ! It was with a sickening sensation
that some turned for the first time
to look at their neighbours, and saw, not
the hopeful sign they hungered for, but
haggard faces streaming with perspiration
like their own. All felt themselves in the
presence of one of Diana's * accomplished
facts.' They had wooed* the fickle goddess
Fortune, and she, like Tehi-tegi, had
mocked and left them — how? The soldiers,
lolling out of the barrack windows,
looked down upon a scene of mute,
impotent despair.

Yet it was not without its lighter
shades. What crowd ever is, no matter
what the occasion, though the humour
is not always intentional ? To take a casein
point.

When it became certain that the bank
had failed, and ruin had overtaken most of
the people collected around it, there ascended
the glacis a magnificent creature, with
a noble face, classical features, black hair,
black eyes which shone with fitful brilliancy,
and a majestic figure clad from head
to foot in a flowing black mantle which
now glittered with raindrops. Black
Deborah, as she was called, was in some
respects a remarkable woman, and, though
mad, not unmethodical. Standing with
her back to the sundial, she began to
address the crowd, through which passed
a thrill of superstitious awe. After roundly
denouncing Mr. Macdonald as a knave
and her audience as fools, she proceeded to
administer a little consolation. On the
authority of the Prophet Elijah, whose
mantle she wore, she announced the arrival
of the Millennium. This was not, as it

might seem, a piece of sarcasm; for the
Millennium, she said, brought with it absolute
immunity from rent. A thorough
believer in her own doctrines, Black
Deborah henceforth stoutly refused to pay
her incredulous landlord, Mr. Colquitt.

Bobby Beg the Simpleton, dancing to
and fro in his three coats and brimless hat,
and trolling out some merry song, was
another ludicrous element in the scene.
But most of the sights were sad in the
extreme.

Sitting on the steps of the freestone
column in the centre of the market-place,
there was a countrywoman in a red shawl
and a poke bonnet. She had a child with
her and was sobbing piteously, the tears
falling on a bundle of bank-notes which
lay on her lap. She had no other money
in the world, and this had, as she thought,
been rendered valueless by the failure.

No one noticed her, and so she sobbed on,
the child crying too for sympathy, while
the drizzling rain beat down upon both.
But presently Frank came striding by, and
was touched by this picture of distress.
The collective trouble of the crowd, beside
which his own sank into insignificance, had
filled him with a longing to be of some
assistance. When the woman had told her
story, he said :

^ But you may not be a loser at all.'
Her tears stopped as if by magic. She
stared up at him in bewilderment.

Take these,' he said, tapping the bundle
he had taken from her, ' to a notary and
get him to " note " them. You must pay
him eighteen pence a-piece for doing that,
but the money will afterwards be returned
to you by the bank. Do you understand
so far? Very well, then. If you do as I
say, your notes will bear interest at five

per cent. ; and if, as is most likely, the
bank has enough funds to cover the note-issue,
you will be paid in full, with interest
up to that date. But come with me ; I'll
set you straight.'

She poured blessings upon his head ;
and when she had hushed her child's cries
and taken the little thing in her arms,
went with him readily. Walking by the
side of this grateful countrywoman, Frank
was conscious of a happier frame of mind ;
somehow or other, his intolerable burden
seemed to have been lightened a little.

But when they came opposite his uncle's
house, he suddenly stopped to gaze in
amazement at a brass-plate upon the
door. It was inscribed thus : ' Mr. Jacob
Maddrell, Advocate and Notary Public'
Considering what Frank had told Dalrymple
about the legal profession in the
island, I have thought it superfluous to

say that Mr. Maddrell belonged to it,
especially as he lead given up practising.
The plate that had rooted Frank to the
ground, was the old one, hunted out of the
lumber-room, polished, and replaced upon
the door.

It was some time before he could
realize the situation ; and then he grasped
the woman by the arm and dragged her
into the house. He found his uncle preparing
the back room as an office as of
old; in fact, cheerfully setting to work,
at the age of seventy, to make a fresh
start in life now that he had lost his
all.

You see, Frank,' said the old gentleman,
pleasantly, 'I am getting into harness
again. I have just discovered there's
a good bit of work in me yet.'

*And here,' returned Frank, with a
very full heart, ' is a client I have brought
you.'

Bravo, Frank !' And beaming with
delight he sat down to his desk.

The woman's business was soon concluded.
She had brought two-hundred
and fifty pounds, which were duly noted
and left in the advocate's safe keeping.
When she had gone, he set aside eighteen
of the number to show what he Avould
receive for the transaction, and pointed to
them with childlike pride.

A capital beginning,' he said. ' There
are a good many dinners there.'

Yes, indeed,' said Frank. ' But, uncle,
what's the meaning of it all? It's forme
to work, and not you. Don't you
think I can earn enough for both ? Oh,
but I'm sure I can.'

No doubt, my boy, but each must take
his fair share.'

Well, then,' urged Frank, who thought
he could attain his end in another way,
^ let us work in partnership.'

But Mr. Maddrell was an advocate of
experience.

'Don't you know,' he said, with a sly
look, ^ that lawyers can make business for
one another. No, no, two firms will do
better than one. And now, Frank, is the
time for clients. Run off and bring them
in — by the bushel.'

On this advice Frank was not slow to
act. But an unexpected circumstance
interfered with his success.

CHAPTER X.

RESULTS OF THE FAILURE.

While Frank was indoors the arrival of a
number of speculators had effected a
complete change in the scene. Some were
agents of different banks, and others were
acting on their own account ; but the
object of all was the same — to buy up the
notes of Macdonald's bank. There was an
immense amount of ignorance on the subject
; just as a big war sends the people
rushing to the atlas, so a disaster like
the present inculcates knowledge if it does
nothing else. At first the notes were soldat
an absurdly low figure, and even when

VOL. I. P

the truth became more generally diffused
the clamorous eagerness of the holders to
sell kept down the price. But, on the
other hand, the speculators were eager to
buy ; and, by bidding against one another,
sent up the price until at length the one-pound
notes of a broken bank were fetching
nearly twenty shillings apiece !

When Frank emerged once more in the
rain, he beheld the buyers perched at intervals
along the glacis, each accompanied
by a clerk and a couple of stout porters
with a box of gold, and each confronted
by a dense semi-circle of men and women,
waving bundles of notes in the air and
shouting as they stood in the street or
market-place below. It was a strange
scene to be enacted around the walls of
the old Castle, which, though it had passed
through many a siege, had never before
been so assailed by its own townsmen.

Approaching one of the groups, Frank
met the woman he had just befriended.
Wiser now, she wanted her notes back,
because she thought a bird in the hand
better than two in the bush, and, moreover,
required money for immediate
expenses. Anxious to spare his uncle's
feelings, Frank endeavoured to reassure
her on the first point ; and with regard to
the second, offered to advance what she
required. But she could only repeat one
unvarying formula — she wanted to change
her notes for gold. Legally speaking, of
course, the thing was done and could not
be undone. At the same time, knowing
that his uncle would be vexed if he afterwards
came to hear of any opposition to
the woman's wish, Frank took her back to
the house, where she stated her business.
Though with a cheerful face, it was with a
terrible heart-pang that the old man acceded



ed to her demand. And so the eighteen
pounds he had made and been so proud of,
were swept away.

■^ She's an unthankful brute,' savagely
exclaimed Frank, when she had gone.

Don't say that, my boy,' said his uncle,
gently. ^ In a time of panic we are none
of us responsible for our acts. Besides,
she means no harm, and doubtless wants
her money. I wonder, Frank,' added he,
looking wistfully towards the door, 'if anyone
has yet noticed that the old plate is
back in its place.'

Unable to bear the sight of the old man
sitting there, patiently waiting for a chance
client, Frank speedily left the quiet back-room
for the turbulent scene outside. He
was also a little afraid lest something
should be said about the necessity of
abandoning his engagement with Nessie,
and so did not like to remain alone with

this uncle. But instead of going to her, he
lingered around the whirlpool which had
swallowed up his happiness, for he was
drawn thither by an irresistible fascination,
due perhaps to a vague hope that some
fragment of the wreck might yet float to
the surface. It was no doubt the same
idea that held the crowd in a compact
mass around the bank — such at least as
were not fortunate enough to be note-holders.
And always nearest the door,
still in the same determined attitude, still
with the same desperate look, stood Dick
Plague.

One fact, which greatly intensified the
distress, must not be omitted. Every
tradesman had the power of issuing notes
for which there was no other security than
his own credit. Silver being less plentiful
then than it is now, these notes were in
many ways convenient ; they usually

represented very small sums, and passed
freely from hand to hand. But, taken in
the aggregate, they were quite large-enough
to become a source of danger in a
time of commercial panic. When their
issuer failed, they were of course rendered
valueless; and, even if he stood firm, they
did not. During the course of this
memorable day, a certain butcher, who had
not failed as yet at any rate, was standing
in his doorway when a bundle of his own
notes was brought to him, with a request
to cash them.

Take them to Cavern,' he said, pointing
to a grocer's in the same street ; ' maybe
he'll cash them for you.'

He won't, for I've tried him,' was the
answer.

Then,' said the butcher, with a grim
smile, ' I don't think I will, either.' And
he turned on his heel and entered the shop,.

This incident will show that the lower
classes, many of whom had been laying by
a stock of these notes against a rainy day,
were reduced to a very lamentable condition.
There was plenty of work for
philanthropy to do, and, fortunately, no
lack of willing workers.

Frank found that a Relief Committee
was already in course of formation. The
Lieutenant-governor, the High Bailiff,
Major Christorey, and many others had
promised handsome subscriptions, and
money was coming in rapidly. Among
others, Fabian Dalrymple, though a
stranger to the town, had given a really
large sum, which Avon for him the votes of
many who had previously disliked him.
But it was the distribution of the money
collected that offered one of the chief
difficulties.

Beggars in those days fared royally,

finding good food, chairs by the fire-side,
and beds ready fir them in any house
they choose to enter; some even rode
about the country on horseback, with
small fortunes in their saddle-bags, and
their noses in the air when any but the
best fire was offered them. But, apart
from these professional scamps who were
few in number, the Manx peasantry had
the strongest antipathy to mendicancy in
their own families, and did their utmost to
support their poor relations sooner than
allow them to ' go on the houses.'

To have offered alms to any of this
sturdy race would have been equivalent '
to an insult. Hence great tact had to be
employed in administering the proposed
relief, and for this mission none could
have been more suitable than Mr. Hudson.
Heedless of the rain, he went to and frd
nearly all day. Many of those whom he

knew to be in. immediate want of money,
he persuaded to accept a temporary loan ;
and, assisted by a number of volunteers, he
gradually melted down the crowd. At
last, late in the afternoon, there remained
at the bank door only one man — Dick
Plague.

Macdonald's bank being unlimited, the
shareholders would fare badly, but the
depositors would eventually receive back
some of their money, and perhaps all.
Plague was told this over and over again,
but he would not or could not understand
it. No one could extract a single word
from him ; when spoken to he did not even
turn his head, but kept his eyes fixed
straight in front of him. The door of the
bank which contained his gold was closed
against him, and that was all he seemed to
know or care about.

It is no easy matter to describe his

mental condition at this time. Briefly, it
was as if his brain had been suddenly
petrified, the seething passions being
consequently prevented from making for
themselves an outlet. To make this more
clear, disassociate the intellectual from the
moral man, and remember that the latter,
be he never so powerful, can only express
himself through the instrumentality of the
former. Ruth Teare came and pleaded
with Plague ; so did his mother, hobbling
on her stick. But he turned a deaf ear
to both. Neither love nor filial affection
could move him now. Outwardly he was
a statue ; inwardly a volcano. His mother
went off, indignantly saying she had known
all along what would be the end of a man
so ' wise in his own conceits,' but Ruth sat
down on a neighbouring door-step and
wept bitterly. She, poor thing, would
have remained there near him far into the

night had not her father come to lead her
away.

No one knew at what hour Plague left
the bank, which wrought his ruin, and,
as we shall see presently, led to the
crowning happiness of another, so strangely
are our lives interwoven. He did not
sleep at home that night, and it has never
been ascertained how he spent the time,
but he probably wandered about the
country. At all events, there seems to
have struggled into his torpid brain a
solitary idea : namely, that Macdonald the
cause of the mischief, lived, not at the
bank, but at his private house, which was
situated at the sharp elbow in the Douglas
Road just beyond the drawbridge, and
that he (Plague) should be there. With
what object, who can say ?

When the morning broke, it showed
Plague stationed in the smithy opposite

and when the evening came lie was still
there, his ghastly face staring over the
glowing metal on the anvil at the house
across the road, and never moving, though
the blacksmith's hammer filled the air with
flying sparks. Late at night he went home,
but next morning he came again, bringing
with him enough provisions for the day.

About eleven o'clock that night Macdonald,
who had been a great walker, crept
stealthily out of his back-door, and Plague
went after him down the road. The
former, looking frequently over his
shoulder, saw that he was being followed,
and quickened his pace, whereupon the
latter did the same. And so they went on
for many a mile into the country, the one
always keeping the same distance behind
the other. In vain, the terrified banker
wriggled and twisted ; in vain, he turned
up this lane and down that ; in vain, he

cut across the fields and dodged back like
a hare. Plague stuck doggedly to his
heels, never saying a word, never lifting
an arm in menace, moving through the
night like a shadow, yet looking the very
incarnation of remorseless revenge.

CHAPTER XL

ON THE BRINK.

The situation as seen by Dalrymple may be
briefly sketched as follows :

He bad guessed that Diana Knigbton
was in love with Frank ; and be knew that,
piqued at the success of a rival be despised,
be was drifting into love with Nessie, whom
be bad believed be could marry if be chose.
As be and Diana were both rich, while the
other two bad been rendered almost
penniless by the bank failure, the young
couple would bave a double temptation to
drag them asunder. Here, also, Ned
Cbristorey might prove useful, and could

easily be shelved when his task was
performed.

Hence Dalrymple still thought it better
to bide his time, leaving his beautiful and
accomplished ally to do all the Avork.
Though only a subaltern, he was learned in
the art of war.

However, two things occurred to disturb
his plans. One was the serious illness of
Diana, the cold having baffled Dr. Myl-
worry and turned to inflammation of the
lungs — a most deadly disease, as Mrs.
Colquitt pleasantly assured everybody she
met. The other was the surprising activity
displayed by Mr. Maddrell now that he
had been aroused out of the placid dream
of living as his fathers had lived.

Instead of condemning the engagement,
as Frank had feared, the old man backed
him up nobly and spared no effort to
ensure its continuance. Working for his

bread, he worked also for his nephew ; he
rose at six every morning and read law
like a student ; he sold many of his
treasures ; in short, he neglected no way
of making money, for upon it Frank's
marriage and happiness depended. He
even brought his collection of coins to the
hammer. But, oh, what a pang it cost
him ! Though he insisted upon this piece
of self-sacrifice, saying he was glad to get
rid of the rubbish, he shed bitter tears in
his own room. One thing he could not
part With — his father s house. He clung to
that, and then reproached himself for what
he called his selfishness.

As an advocate, Mr. Maddrell found
clients few and far between ; so, determined
not to be beaten, he engaged a boy to act
as clerk, left him in charge of the office,
and went out and fished for his dinner and
Frank's. No doubt everybody could do

the same, but would they ? One day as
this venerable old gentleman, with his rod
over his shoulder, was blithely walking off
to the rocks, Mr. Colquitt came in sight,
skulking along like a whipped cur, afraid
of being seen, and carrying a fishing-rod
disguised as a walking-stick ! He was
bound on a similar expedition, but with a
difference — he was acting under peremptory
orders from his wife. And now comes the
strangest part of the affair. Mr. Maddrell,
who made no attempt to conceal his
occupation, had not fished for many years,
whereas Mr. Colquitt, who was now
ashamed of it, fished three or four times a
week publicly off the pierced with Georgie
by his side !

When the long-bearded old gentleman
saw the other he went for him as a hungry
dog goes for a bone, and began to talk
about — their common misfortune ? no — the

VOL. I. Q

sin of shaving. He defied Mr. Colquitt to
produce any passage from the Bible in
support of his practice, and quoted Samson
against him.

So far as Frank was concerned, then,
the bank failure was not an unmitigated
calamity, for it taught him many a lesson
both by precept and by example. He
learned, among other things, that he possessed
a dear old uncle whose real nature
he saw clearly for the first time. He
learned also that he had a true friend in
Iste Christorey.

Ned, who had been exhorted by his
father to go in and win, now came forward
and offered his rival the sinews of war, thus
doing his utmost to extinguish any chance
of success he himself might have. His
mother had taken his defeat sadly to heart ;
his father had waxed indignant ; but Ned
had borne it nth a patience that never

deserted him. For him, the bank failure
had proved a genuine boon, as it had provided
him nth plenty of occupation.

Frank,' he said, in his awkward way, ' I
said 1 would congratulate you, and I can't
congratulate you better than by asking
you to do me a favour.'

Say on, Ned,' exclaimed impulsive
Frank. ' You know it's granted, old chap,
before it's asked.'

Well,' said Ned, slowly tracing a pattern
with his stick on the office floor, ' I
have lots of money I don't want and don't
know what to do with. In fact, it's a
nuisance — a downright nuisance, Frank,'
added he, with emphasis. ' Will you take
charge of it for me ?'

Invest it, you mean ?'

'Yes, I mean an investment. I want
an investment that will bring me in
splendid interest.'

q2

'A hard thing to find just now,' commented
Frank, smiling.

I don't know that,' said Ned, momentarily
raising his eyes. ' I am anxious to
put this money out on loan. In fact ' — he
had been unusually long in coming to his
point, and now rushed at it — 'I want you
to have it.'

The tears started into Frank's eyes. And
this was the man whom he used to consider
rather a fool ! He said, with a strange
catch in his voice :

Ned, you are a brick. But, old chap, I
don't want your money. I don't, indeed,
or, believe me, I would gladly take it.'

The conversation was interrupted by a
knock at the door, followed by the entrance
of Bobby Beg. He took off his brimless
hat With both hands and stood silently
grinning over it.

What is it, Bobby Beg?' demanded Frank.

A latter, Masther Frank

Then where is it ?'

I was to give it into your own hand,
Masther Frank proceeded Bobby Beg, still
grinning, * and I was to make royal speed.
That was the message I got.'

Well, well, give me the letter.'

Bobby Beg drew from one of the many
pockets in his numerous coats a letter
from' Diana Knightonon, who, as she had
told Frank she would do, had found the
simpleton some work to do in her garden
a small patch of ground at the back of the
house. When he had delivered the letter,
he replaced his hat on his yellow head and
went out, still grinning. The next moment
they could hear him singing, as he danced
along the quay :

The king can only love his wife,

And I can do the same ;
I loves my gal with all my life,

And that's the for I came.'

Diana's letter gave Frank a dreadful
shock. It told him she was dying ; and
also begged him to come to her without a
moment's delay, as she had something of
the utmost importance to say to him. Of
course, he went at once.

Dr. Mylworry's greyhounds were scampering
about the market-place, and the
doctor himself was coming down the
steps of Diana's house as Frank approached.


She ashes to see you,' he said, looking
at Frank very gravely. 'Your visit can
do but little harm.'

Is it so hopeless as that ?'

In less than twenty-four hours she will
be out of my hands. Even as it is, I
wished to forbid your seeing her, but she
never could endure contradiction, and her
weakness seems only to have strengthened

her will. Poor Diana !' lie added, with a
sigh. ' Castletown will never see such a
beauty again.'

'Do you know why she has sent forme?'



The doctor shook his head.

The ways of women are incomprehensible,'
he replied, and strode oiF.

Mrs. Sherwood, sobbing hysterically,
opened the door to Frank. The few broken
sentences she uttered were almost unintelligible.
Frank's nerves had been much
shaken before, but the sight of the mother's
grief quite unmanned him. He
begged for a short delay before going
upstairs, and, Mrs. Sherwood being too
distraught to think of asking him to sit
down, they stood together in the hall, until
at length he motioned to her to proceed.
Then she conducted him to her daughter's

bedside, and, at Diana's request, went away
to an adjoining room, through the open
door of which her sobs came with distressing
frequency.

If Frank had been able to think of anything
of the sort at such a moment, Diana's
appearance must strongly have reminded
him of his picture of Tehi-tegi ; for her
beautiful black hair Alas flowing around
her shoulders, and her dark eyes had
gained in lustre, perhaps owing to the
paleness of her face, which wore a smile
of ineffable sweetness. Ill as she was, she
had evidently tried to look her best, but
her pretty pink jacket formed a sad contrast
to her colourless cheeks.

At the first sight of Diana propped up
among the pillows, Frank came to a sudden
halt, he was so shocked at the change
in her. Then he advanced timidly, with
noiseless footsteps.

How grieved I am to see you like this,
Diana !' he almost whispered, taking the
hand she held out to him.

Grieved, Frank, when my troubles are
nearly over !'

Don't say that, Diana. You must get
better ; we can't spare you.' Even while
speaking he was reproaching himself for
encouraging a vain hope.

No, it's not to be,' she said, decidedly ;
and yet she still clung to his hand, as
though by its aid she would cling to life
itself ' But sit down, Frank — here, on
this chair — here. Because ' — and it was
the old Diana that spoke — ' my voice is
not as strong as it was.'

If only I could do something for you !'
broke out Frank.

You can, Frank,' said she, smiling,
and that is why I sent for you. I'm
coming to it. I must be quick. Dr. Myl-

worry says I shall never see another day.
In the time to come, when I am far away,
will you sometimes think of Diana !'

How wistfully her eyes rested upon him
as she put this question !

I shall never, never forget my dear
friend,' he faltered.

As if under the influence of a painful
spasm, her hand tightened convulsively
upon his, which was resting on the coverlet.
She hastily changed the subject.

Will you do me a great — a very great
favour?' she asked.

'You cannot doubt that, Diana.'

'You promise, Fraiik?' she exclaimed,
with great eagerness, raising her head to
watch him.

After a look of surprise he replied,
solemnly,
I promise.'

A strange smile overspread her features.

You have promised she said, rather
wildly; 'remember, Frank, you have
promised. It's to help my mother. When

I die she will be left penniless, unless '

And then she broke out entreatingly,
Leave me, Frank, leave me at once. Go
please, please, go ! Oh, why won't you
go !' she cried, with startling energy.

Pale, trembling, fancying that he was
witnessing some terrible phase of her malady,
Frank rose from his seat and was
hurrying from the room. But before he
had reached the door she called him back
called him in a voice so soft and tender
that he obeyed like one in a dream.

Frank,' she said, taking his hand when
he stood by the bed-side, ' forgive me ! I
am weak — dying — or I should never have
doubted you. Please, pass me that medicine
— on the table there.' She lay back
silent for a time, looking thoroughly exhausted.

But whether the cause was the
medicine or her own indomitable courage,
she soon recovered sufficiently to add:
By my father's will — a very hard and
cruel will — my mother will be left penniless
on my death — unless I have married
again. In that case she and my husband
must be benefited equally. For my sake,
for my mother's sake, weill you marry a
dying woman for the few hours — perhaps
the few minutes — she has yet to live ?'

He staggered back gasping.

'Remember your promise!' she cried.
You have given me a solemn pledge on
my death-bed. Surely, you won't hesitate.
Oh, Frank, think of my poor mother ! It
is but an empty form,' she added, with a
shiver. ' To-morrow I shall be gone, and
you will be free. Speak, Frank ! Why don't
you speak?'

'I must go and ask Nessie,' he said.

slowly, struggling to collect his scattered
thoughts.

But your promise, Frank !' insisted
Diana, again taking his hand in both of
hers.

^ I'll tell her everything,' he said.

Oh, don't leave me!' she pleaded. 'I
may be gone before you return. Go, then,
go quickly,' added she, pushing him away
from her, 'while there is yet time. Oh,
Frank, get back before it's too late. Bring
Mr. Hudson and — licence ' Words failing
her, she pointed feebly to the medicine
bottle, but afterwards added, in a whisper,
Mother.'

Frank walked to the open door, and,
looking through into the next room, saw
that Mrs. Sherwood, exhausted by grief
and watching, had fallen asleep. But at
his summons she awoke and went to her
daughter, while he blundered downstairs.

Acted upon by many different forces, he
scarcely knew what he was doing; his
brain was in a whirl ; those whom he passed
on his way to Claddagh House were as
figures moving through a thick mist, and
speaking to him with far-ois voices.

Frank found the Colquitts assembled for
dinner, and before them all said what he
had come to say, his words being listened
to amid a startled silence. Mrs. Colquitt
was the first to speak, and on the score of
expediency she strongly advocated the fulfilment
of the promise which Frank had
given with characteristic impulsiveness. Mr.
Colquitt, of course, followed his wife's lead.
Mona was also of the same opinion : because,
as she said, the marriage would
after all be merely a matter of form, and
any sentimental objections must therefore
fall to the ground. She regarded the marriage
as a clever device for defeating an

iniquitous will, and thought the young
couple would be handsomely paid for their
share in the transaction.

But Nessie sat silent, her eyes downcast,
and her sweet young face white to the
quivering lips. She, alone among them all,
had divined the nature of Diana's feelings
for Frank.

Come, Nessie, why don't you speak ?'
exclaimed her mother, impatiently. ' You,
surely, wouldn't have Frank break his
word — to a dying woman too. And then
think of us ! It's not like you to be selfish,
and goodness knows the state we are in for
want of money. Not one single thing has
your father ever done to provide bread for
his children, and look at the result ! Weare
all beggars — yes, beggars, Mr. C, while
you sit toasting your toes at an empty
grate. Plainly enough I see before me a
pauper's funeral.'

Mother dear !' interrupted Mona, warningly.
Whereupon Mrs. Colquitt collapsed,
frowning over folded hands.

But for this little incident, Nessie would
scarcely have been allowed to quit the
room without a word of explanation. She
had hastily left her seat, linked her hand
in Frank's, and led him into the hall.

• Frank,' she faltered, playing with his
watch-chain, and not daring to look at
him, ' you won't love me any the less because
you marry Diana?'

^ Love you the less, my darling !' he
said, showering down the hot kisses upon
her.

But mil you, dear ?'

No — no — no ! A thousand times, no.'

Then,' she said, trembling, ' I think I
can spare you to her — for a day. It would
be very selfish of me not to do so when she
is dying and wishes it so much — to save

lier mother from ruin. Besides, Frank,
you have promised.'

Had lie known that she had regarded
Diana in the light of a formidable rival he
would have been even more moved than
he was. The directness with which Mrs.
Colquitt and Mona had put the monetary
inducement before him, had made him recoil
from the proposed step with something
very like disgust. But Nessie, who was
free from all taint of worldliness, had put
the matter in an entirely new light. When
it had passed through her innocent mind,
it became purely an act of self-denial
which she felt it her duty to make.
Strange by what opposite motives we maybe
impelled towards the same goal !

Frank hesitated no longer. He kissed
Nessie passionately ; called her every name
in a lover's vocabulary; returned to her
again and again as if he were taking leave

VOL. I. R

of her for ever ; and at, last tore himself
away.

Frank was spared a long ride to Bishop's
Court, for the Bishop of Sodom and Man,
who has the power of granting special
licences, was at that time on a visit to the
Lieutenant-Governor. It was a considerable
time, however, before he found his
Lordship, and even then some formalities
had to be gone through which consumed
many more of the precious minutes. However,
Frank got his licence at last, paid his
fifteen shillings for it, and hastened off to
the chaplain's residence. Here again a
vexatious delay occurred, as the old man
was visiting some of the poor members of
his congregation in Queen Street. Frank,
who was the whole time in a most agitated
frame of mind, had to dive into one house
after another, and, as so often happens in

such cases, the person lie sought was in
the very last of them.

Told nothing but the plain fact that he
was wanted to marry Frank and Diana at
once, Mr. Hudson stared hard but made no
comment. Remonstrance was clearly deprecated,
and he was not the man to force
his opinion upon anyone, especially when
the necessary data were withheld from
him. He went no nearer the subject than
to inquire after Diana, and when Frank
briefly replied that she was not expected
to survive the day, he relapsed into silence.
And so they walked on side by side to the
market-place, where Mr. Hudson made a
short expedition by himself to fetch his
bag.

When they entered the house where the
solemn ceremony was to be performed, they
found Mrs. Sherwood quite incapable of

R 2

being present. Volunteering to get a
witness, the chaplain went out, and, a
few minutes later, returned with — Fabian
Dalrymple ! Just think what this man's
feelings must have been as he stood by
the bedside of the dying woman, whom he
had known only as a charming coquette,
and witnessed her marriage with his successful
rival, Nessie's affianced lover !

With as little delay as possible, Mr. Hudson
commenced the service.

We must turn for a moment to a very
humble individual, Bobby Beg.

Idiots are generally supposed to be as
deficient in nerves as they are in brains.
This is a great mistake. It would be difficult
to find anyone more sensitive than an
idiot, unless it be a genius, so nearly do
extremes meet. Some trifling circumstance
had offended Bobby Beg, now a member

of Diana's household ; and when lie ascertained
— no matter how at present — what
was taking place, he felt impelled to go
out and chatter about it. The first person
he met happened to be Black Deborah, of
whom he stood in fear and trembling.
Bobby Beg knew nothing about the ' evil
eye,' but he did know that the black eyes
of the mad prophetess pierced his brain
like a couple of gimlets. So, hoping to
propitiate this haughty creature who was
striding by in her black mantle, the simpleton
doffed his brimless hat, stepped upto
her, and humbly offered his dainty slice
of gossip.

Now, Black Deborah's announcement
about the millennium had proved a failure.
Mr. Colquitt, who was sorely in need of
money, had threatened to turn her out of
her cottage unless she paid up her arrears
of rent — for the millennium, it appeared,

was retrospective in its operation — and
she was consequently at daggers drawn
with all the Colquitts, Nessie included.
Here, then, was a rare chance for revenge.
That Nessie was a consenting party to
Frank's marriage did not strike her for a
moment ; she supposed it to be a secret
affair between him and Diana. Such being
the case, she would have no difficulty in
turning it to account. As a henaaislinee^
or female fortune-teller, she not only kept
her eyes open, but also heard all sorts of
things from servants who came to her for
advice, and by utilising these sources of
information she had arrived at the conclusion
that Ned Christorey was in love with
Nessie. For this reason, and also because
his father was an extensive landlord —
Black Deborah was cunning, like all lunatics,
and keen after the main chance — she

resolved to go to Ned Avitli what she had
just heard.

Instead of thanking Bobby Beg, she terrified
him into silence by the most awful
threats, and left the poor fellow cowering
in the middle of the road, his yellow hair-blown
about by the wind, and his expression
one of abject fear.

Hearing that Ned had been seen going
up Arboryy Street, Black Deborah strode
after him, and overtook him and Toby
outside the town, opposite a dilapidated
old windmill. Without any preliminaries,
she flung her news at him, her eyes blazing
with malicious triumph as she did so. It
completely took his breath away. When
he had somewhat recovered, he would not
believe it, but she forced conviction upon
him. Then he, also supposing the marriage
to be unknown to Nessie, bound Black

Deborah over to secresy, which she readily
promised, as she had attained her end.

The rise and progress of this rivulet of
gossip is surely not uninstructive. It had
its source in the brain of an idiot, who
started it for little more than the sake of
talking, that little being a wish to curry
favour with a superior — an egregious failure,
be it observed. It was then passed
on to a lunatic, who discoloured it with
malice and sent it on its way. And —
here it differs from most of its kind — finally
it was checked and dammed up by an
honest man, a discreet and trusty friend.

If Ned's biography were written, it
would be a record of continual self-sacrifice.
The time had come for him to give
another instance of it, for there descended
on him this thunderbolt : Suppose Diana
were to recover ! In the confusion of the
moment nobody had dreamt of questioning

her positive assertion, given on Dr. Myl-
worry's authority, that lie was dying. But
Ned, dull old Ned, thought of the danger,
and shuddered at it. What is more, he determined,
if possible, to prevent such a dreadful
thing as he saw might happen : a thing
that would nevertheless have left him free
to propose to Nessie again, with a very fair
chance of winning her. The prize he had
yearned for might be brought within reach
if only he withheld his hand and bided his
time ; but Ned was not Fabian Dalrymple,
who was now standing at the bedside with
some of these very thoughts in his head.
Ned saw that interference in what was
really no business of his, might cost him
dear, especially where an impulsive fellow
like Frank was concerned, but this did not
deter him from doing what he conceived
to be his duty.

So far as he could see, the only possible

object of this strange marriage was money.
He therefore hurried back to the town at
full speed, determined to offer Frank all he
had. Fear of arriving too late spurred
him onward ; it was a race of awful excitement
he was running. As he tore along
the narrow street, his long legs stretched
to their utmost limit, his arms swinging,
and Toby trotting wonderingly behind,
people came to their doors to look after
him. Panting and red-faced, he reached
the market-place. Leaving Toby at the
base of the freestone column, lest the dog
should bark and distress Diana, he dashed
up the steps of her house.

In reply to his ring, a servant opened
the door. Yes, Frank was there, she said.
Ned demanded to see him at once on
urgent business, and, without standing on
ceremony, marched into the hall.

CHAPTER XII.

OVER THE BRINK.

The marriage was duly performed ; Mr.
Hudson and Dalrymple went their several
ways ; and Frank, not knowing what to do
in this novel and painful situation, lingered
by the bedside of his wife, though he
was burning with a feverish desire to flee
away to his fiancee. But any perplexity
he may have felt in regard to his anomalous
position was speedily driven out by
pity and distress; for Diana, thoroughly
exhausted by her excitement, fainted now
that it was over, before she could say a

word to him alone. Fortunately, Dr. Myl-
worry arrived a moment or two later, and,
at his request, Frank left the room.

On the stairs he met the servant, who
delivered Ned's message. Ned himself he
found standing in the hall, nervously fumbling
with his hat.

Come out !' gasped Ned, dragging him
by the arm. ' Come out of this house at
once ! Frank, I have something to say
that must be said without a moment's
delay.' The urgency of the affair had
made him throw aside his usual humility.

Startled out of his wits, wondering what
new thing was coming upon him, Frank
allowed himself to be led outside. They
found themselves alone in the marketplace,
except for half-a-dozen of the doctor's
sleek greyhounds grouped in a crescent
around the ungentlemanly Toby,
whom they were regarding with disdainful

curiosity, tempered, however, with awe
when he looked up and showed his tusks.
At the sight of his master, Toby lazily
rose ; whereupon the greyhounds, pretending
they had important business on hand,
or rather on foot, hastily withdrew. Comedy
and tragedy, tragedy and comedy, such is
life.

Am I too late ?' eagerly exclaimed Ned.

'Too late !' said Frank, staring.

^ This marriage. Is it true ? Has it
taken place ? Oh, surely I'm not too
late !'

Why not ?' asked Frank, so startled
that he forgot to answer the question.

But has it taken place T

Yes.'

Ned dropped his friend's arm and staggered
back, his face brimful of misery.

Oh, my poor, poor Nessie !' was the
cry that came from his noble heart. ' Oh,

Frank, what will lie do ? Surely you
should have taken more care of her than
that !' Then he lowered his voice to inquire
eagerly : ' Does she know ?'

Of course,' replied Frank, angrily. ' Do
you take me for a knave ? There, Ned, I
didn't mean that,' added he, seeing that
Ned looked hurt ; ' but I scarcely know
Whether I'm standing on my head or my
heels. Tell me what's the matter.'

^ Suppose,' said Ned, in a horrified whisper
— ' suppose Diana should recover?'

Suppose Diana should recover !' cried
Frank, repeating the words mechanically.
And then, as the whole horror of the
situation burst upon him, he clutched at
his throat as if he were choking.

He saw now his terrible dilemma. He
was so situated that, ardent lover as he
was, he could scarcely help wishing for the
death of a woman for whom he entertained

none but the most friendly feelings -, for if
that event should not occur, he and Nessie
would be eternally separated, and her happiness
as well as his irretrievably shattered.
With even more precipitation than usual,
he had jumped headlong into the pit,
where he might have to spend a lifetime
in repentance. If anything could add to
his anguish, it was this : that whereas
Nessie had been actuated solely by the
purest motives, he had certainly taken the
money into consideration.

Not daring to go near Nessie, Frank
went for sympathy to the sea, that strange
and beautiful creature that can enter into
our moods as no human being can do. If
you would laugh, the sea will laugh with
you, for none knows better the littleness of
life ; and if a sudden grief should come
upon you, lo ! the mighty deep is straightway
wailing. Filled to the lips with passionate

impulses, it can be tender as a
mother ; fickle as a woman, it can also be
staunch and true. Who can doubt its
sex? To-day recklessly hurling itself
against the stubborn cliff, tomorrow it
may be coyly running from a dainty seaweed
that entreatingly stretches out its
arms towards the merry coquette. And
oh, its many, many voices ! Its voices of
passion and pain, of joy and grief, of love
and despair. See, these tiny wavelets
toddling, lisping, laughing to the pebbly
shore, while a wave follows, circling lovingly
around them, lest they should stumble
— what are they saying? For those
who can hear, each is saying just what
the leaves whisper to the wind — what, in
fact, the whole of the inanimate world is
ever telling the animate : that it has
risen for a brief spell out of the great
ocean to which it will return, and that it

mil rise again for good or ill — never, nevermore
in the same form, but in the myriad
wavelets that come after it. Do you wonder,
then, that this one little wavelet can
laugh With you or sigh with you, according
to your mood? Surely not, for it
must be capable of every emotion, built
up as it is out of the myriads that have
preceded it.

And so it was that Frank found a solace
in the companionship of the sea. There
was pity in it, no doubt ; but there was
also energy, which drowned the voice of
despair. Sitting on the upturned edges
of the schist rocks at the end of the Racecourse,
with the promontory of Langness
on his right, and the little St. Michael's
Isle on his left, Frank listened to the water
surging into the gulley below ; watched it
sweep the long brown stalks from its path
and patiently mount the face of the cliff ;

VOL. I. s

turned his eyes seawards, and saw the ships
struggling in the glistening track which
he knew was the tidal current ; marked
the white gulls contending with the wind
overhead as they went towards the ledges
among the headlands near the Calf;
and then he too started to grapple with
his difficulty. But when the sun sank
behind the mountains — which always
seemed to be saying to the sea, ' Look at
us, you frivolous monster ! we neither
laugh nor weep ; we only watch and listen
' — Frank was still at his task. The
shadows flowed out of the east to quench
the lingering light in the west ; the stars
crept out timidly, one by one, as if fearful
lest that terrible fellow, the sun, should
be somewhere in hiding, ready to pop back
and extinguish them ; the moon peeped
above the water, and, seeing that all was
clear, slowly soared into the blue sky; and

all the time Frank sat by the side of the
lapping water. He had completely forgotten
his surroundings, until there settled
near him a redshank, which suddenly saw
him, and went off shrieking. Then he
rose with a start, and slowly made his way
homewards, resolved to explain matters to
Nessie as soon as possible, and so prepare
her for the worst.

There were no lights visible in Claddagh
House when Frank passed, the whole family
being at the High Bailiff's. He had received
an invitation himself, but had forgotten
all about it ; though, of course,
he could not have gone under the circumstances.
Though this dance was an
attempt at cheerfulness after the bank
failure, the High Bailiff would willingly
have postponed it, but for several reasons
could not very well do so. Moreover, as
Diana was a comparative stranger to the

s2

town, he felt her illness to be a less powerful
objection than would otherwise have
been the case. It was to be merely a
quiet family party, he said, though there
was nearly everybody there.

He lived in a very old house, with the
narrowest of windows, situated in the little
square which contained the House of Keys.
When Frank arrived upon the scene, the
blinds were drawn up so as to let those
outside see what was going on within ;
the square was a confused mass of vehicles
and sedan-chairs, their drivers and bearers
talking loudly, laughing, and drinking
sough, which was being brought out to
them in great jugs; lanterns, borne by
the servants of careful old maids who had
walked in patterns, were flitting to and
fro ; and a crowd of curious men, women,
and children filled up the background. Soit
was not without some difficulty that

Frank elbowed his way to a position near
the door, where he had resolved to wait
for Nessie.

The first thing he noticed inside the room
was the white hair and ebony face of
Black Charlie, a Bonny man of six feet
four and broad in proportion, who had
once been in the Army and now eked out his
pension by playing the fiddle. This negro
giant was just commencing the air of a
country dance, ' The Black and the Grey,'
an air that sent a poisoned arrow into
Frank's soul, for it was invariably played
at the weddings of the Manx peasantry.

Frank had scarcely recovered from this
shock when he received another, even
more severe.

It would have been very unlike Nessie
if she had danced this evening, and she
did not do so once, often as she was asked.
But for her mother's command she

would not have been there at all. She
spent most of the time in Watching the
solemn old ladies and gentlemen at whist,
though her thoughts were really in the
darkened room containing, as she supposed,
Frank and his wife — already, perhaps, his
no longer.

But presently he caught a glimpse of
her through one of the windows, and, with
a sudden anxiety which was not yet
jealousy, he eagerly watched for her to
pass the other in order to ascertain who
was her partner. For some reason or
other, several minutes elapsed before she
came in sight again, during which time
Frank was on thorns. At last he saw
her, with a tall thin figure upon whose
arm she was leaning and whose face was
bent down to hers, and he felt chilled to
the bone at recognising Fabian Dairy
male.

He seemed to be shut out for ever from
the world in which she lived. Here was
he, her affianced lover, skulking among
the crowd in the darkness without, while
music was playing and lamps were lighted
for her, in an atmosphere which he could
not enter. Then there arose thin him
a fierce jealousy of this man who walked
by her side. He felt as if Dalrymple
alone kept him from her, and hated him
on this irrational ground with a mortal
hatred. Watching the windows as a cat
watches a mouse-hole, he saw that almost
every time Nessie appeared, Dalrymple
was with her, and the sight made his
blood boil.

A servant, with the kindest intentions in
the world, rendered Frank's position still
more intolerable. Seeing him among the
coachmen, she asked him why he did not
come inside, on which he repulsed her

rudely. With knitted brows, he continued
to stand there until the music
ceased with * Sir Roger de Coverley,' and
a number of muffled figures came trooping
down the steps.

Among the first to appear were the
Colquitts, four in number, the insignificant
head of the family trotting meekly
after his portly wife, and Nessie and Mona
behind. With considerable ingenuity,
Mrs. Colquitt had contrived to make her
husband responsible for the bank failure ;
and, wishing to pose as a martyr to his
cruelty and idleness, had insisted upon
walking, though it had hitherto been her
practice to flourish about the town in a
sedan-chair. This suited Frank admirably
: it would enable him to escort Nessie
home.

But before he could reach her side a
tall, thin figure interfered between them

and a sarcastic voice said in Diis ear, ' No,
no ! Bachelors before married men, if you
please.'

If those two had been alone together,
Frank would certainly have struck Dalrymple,
such a sudden rush of fury swept
over him ; but, as it was, he could only
return an angry glare. The touch of
Nessie's hand laid upon his arm, and her
pretty face turned up to his with mingled
love, pity, and appeal, softened him for the
moment. She whispered, tremblingly,

What news have you, Frank ?'

I don't know,' he stammered.

Her look of gentle reproof stung him
the more because he felt it to be deserved.

*You should be with her, dear, shouldn't
you ?' she said.

In the bitterness of his heart he strode
off without another word. Even she had
sent him away from her ! And now he

asked himself was it not partly for her
sake that he had done this thing? Yet
here was she walking homewards With this
insolent fellow whom he loathed, while she
sent him to wander alone through the
night. This was not strictly true, but
Frank's blood was turned to gall.

Arrived in the market-place, he stopped
before the house where he had so recently
been married. After a hesitation brought
to an end by the sound of approaching
wheels and footsteps, he went round to the
back door and knocked softly. A
servant admitted him, and in the kitchen
he heard all there was to tell. Mrs.
Sherwood had been persuaded to go to
bed; Dr. Mylworry had just gone, saying
that he was to be called if any change
took place ; and the nurse was sitting
with Diana, who was sleeping. That was
all.

Some vague sense of duty which Nessie's
words had aroused in him, kept Frank
waiting about the house for some time;
and when he eventually left, the town was
a wilderness. He could hear the swish of
the water on the beach and see the sentry
pacing before the barracks ; otherwise
there was neither sound nor movement.
The streets were lighted only by the moon
and the stars, and the shadows clung to
the walls of the Castle as if they were benton
taking it by assault. Finding some
relief in the solitude of the night Frank
passed his uncle's house and went as far as
the drawbridge.

While he stood there, now sadly musing,
now burning with rage against Dalrymple,
with the chains clanking in the breeze
overhead, there passed along the Douglas
Road a procession that made him shudder.
It consisted of merely two persons,.

Macdonald and Plague. The banker,
whose figure had been somewhat bowed by
care, was looking behind him in terror, for
his pursuer had just quickened his pace; if
he had not been moving onward, his
attitude might be described as crouching.
And close at his heels walked Plague,
stealthily like a cat, with a ghastly white
set face, teeth showing in front, clenched
hands hanging down stiffly rather in
advance of his body, and hair dishevelled,
for he had lost his hat. After glaring over
the smithy fire by day, he was hunting his
enemy by night. They had been for their
weird walk, and had returned through the
town, over the stone bridge, and so along
the road where Frank saw them. It was a
sight not to be forgotten readily.

As he beheld in the moonlight the
dreadful expression on Plague's face, he
felt his flesh creep all over. ' And, oh, to

think that I might come to this !' involuntarily
escaped from his lips, when the two
men disappeared. It was a danger certainly
; but by recognising its existence, Frank
took the first step towards avoiding it.
He went home saddened, awed, fearfully
thinking of the future. So much, so very
much, depended upon the question whether
Diana would live or die. It was a terrible
thing that such a question should have become
possible.

When Frank came downstairs next
morning, he had to tell his uncle he was a
married man.

Mr. Maddrell who had already done
several hours' work, had just commenced
breakfast, which was not such a curious
meal as usual. He had been in the habit
of mixing everything he could lay his
hands on ; his porridge, for example, being
generally rendered more palatable by the

aid of milk, butter, sugar, and even honey,
treacle, and marmalade — a line old mess
when properly jumbled up together. But
this morning, so careful had he become for
the sake of his nephew, he was making wry
faces over porridge neat ; for the sprinkling
of sugar, ostentatiously displayed, was
merely for the purpose of deluding Frank
into thinking that everything was the
same as usual. The rest of Jacob's breakfast
consisted of a salt herring, one of last
winter's stock which the servants had not
yet fulfilled their duty in eating up.
That he did not impose the same rigid
economy upon others, goes without saying.
There were rashers of bacon, and eggs, and
several other things for Frank, who had
been obliged to let his uncle go his own
way, the latter always insisting that a
young man required far more than an old
one did.

At first startled and dismayed by Frank's
news, Mr. Maddrell afterwards became
very grave and thoughtful. Sitting in one
of those old-fashioned arm-chairs, not unlike
in shape and size a bow-window, and
covered with American leather, he stared
at the porridge before him, yet knew not
it was there. When he spoke it was with
surprising shrewdness for a simple-minded
old bachelor, and with a quiet self-possession
that he so often showed when
others were flurried.

Diana loves you, Frank, I feel sure,' he
said ; ' and now that you are her husband,
her love for you will probably effect her
recovery.'

then,' burst from pale-faced Frank,
'what shall I do?'

The position is entirely of your own
making, my boy. You must put up with
it. I don't wish to say anything that

sounds unkind.' He stopped to gaze sadly
after Frank, who was making off, without
having tasted a morsel. It was intones
of gentle warning that he called
after his nephew. ^ Above everything,
Frank, remember that Diana is now your
wife.'

The reminder was not unnecessary. Frank
was rapidly drifting into the frame of
mind which would make Diana appear in
the light of an enemy: which would, in
fact, compel him to see in the hand of
every man a dagger directed against
himself He had already reached this
mood with regard to Dalrymple ; he had
even felt indignant with Nessie, poor little
thing, who cared far more about his interests
than about her own ; and he was now
irritated at what he considered his uncle's
want of sympathy, on which point enough
has been said to show how far from the

truth he was. There is no saying whither
this perilous road might have led him, but
for the recollection of what he had witnessed
on the previous night. Whenever
he thought of that scene, his rising
passions experienced a sharp and salutary
check.

When Frank left the breakfast-table, he
went out to inquire after Diana. As he
approached the house, he became conscious
of a horrible temptation — a strange mingling
of hope, despair, love, and friendship —
to look whether the blinds were drawn
down. But he resisted it bravely, keeping
his eyes rivetted upon the ground
and walking rapidly to lessen the time.
He felt, however, that he was being watched
by many curious spectators, for his
marriage was already town-talk and had
created a tremendous sensation. Only
this feeling held him from actual running,

VOL. I. T

and even then he could not help springing
np the steps at a bound.

Mrs. Sherwood, looking much better for
her night's rest, received him in the sitting-room
downstairs. Diana, she said, had
slept fairly well ; had asked for him when
she awoke; and was now asleep again.
Dr. Mylworry, who appeared to be rather at
sea in the case, considered this an excellent
sign. He even held out some hope now
that she might recover.

What was Frank to say ? What was he
to do? Was he glad? Was he sorry?
I cannot tell you, for he could not tell himself
The day passed — he knew not how ;
the night came with its still more intolerable
burden ; and when the morning
broke, it was only to startle the town with
another catastrophe. A catastrophe that
sent a thrill through every nerve in Frank's
body.

CHAPTER XIII.

FOUND DROWNED.

There was often to be seen trotting about
the town a rare old fossil called Jonathan
Vondy. He was curved and brown and
furrowed; except for his little twinkling
eyes, his weather-worn face was as passive
as the rocks around ; and his clothes
afforded no clue to the age of the curious
specimen embedded in them. He had,
however, a character for strict integrity,
so that he must have belonged to some
very distant epoch. He had also a genial
disposition, several wives sleeping in Maleww

T 2

church-yard, and another occupying his
little cottage, which he himself seldom
entered night or day, for it was his business
to attend to the drawbridge,

Jonathan did his work thoroughly ;
whatever he promised he faithfully fulfilled,
whether it was his ordinary duty or looking
after a boat on a stormy night or providing
a supply of fish for a dinner on the
morrow. Nobody could imagine when he
slept, if indeed he ever did sleep, and it
was currently reported that he had not been
out of his clothes for years. Nevertheless,
he was once caught napping ; or, rather, he
caught himself napping.

About midnight, long after everybody
else in the town was in bed, this hale old
man was smoking his pipe on the quay,
when he happened to look in the direction
of the drawbridge, and saw, to his amazement
and dismay, that half of it had been

raised. He had been standing by the side
of it less than half-arbour before, but bad
left bis station there because it was a
boisterous night, dark and cheerless. Theact
must therefore have been committed within
that period. But with what object?

Being a cool-headed old sailor, ready
enough in a case of emergency, Jonathan
knocked the ashes out of his pipe, put it in
his waistcoat pocket, and trotted to the
spot. The first thing he did was to raise
the other part of the drawbridge, which —
please observe this, for it was afterwards
relied on in court as an important piece of
evidence — was the half nearest the town.
As it had been before, somebody might
have inadvertently walked over the edge
and tumbled into the harbour ; but this
danger being now averted, Jonathan could
safely go off to get assistance. He soon
returned with three or four hobbles whom

he had called out of bed to help him, and
together they lowered the two wooden walls
into their proper positions.

Puzzled at what seemed a most dangerous
practical joke, and rather afraid lest
some accident should have happened, Jonathan
spent some time in peering into the
harbour, but could see nothing floating in
the water. Then he went to the sentry
opposite the guard-room. The soldier, who
had sought the slight shelter of his box,,
had neither seen nor heard anybody pass ;
but, as he said, several might have done soon
such a dark and windy night without
his having noticed them.

Anything but satisfied, Jonathan poked
about the quay all night, and when the
morning came he was still at it. He possessed
in a large degree the patient perseverance
which is born and bred of the

sea ; he was superstitious enough to carry
about, attached to his neck by a piece of
ribbon, a wren's feather and a bollan's
cross to ward off shipwreck or other
disaster ; and while the one influence made
him associate any unusual occurrence with
evil, the other impelled him to find out
what that evil might be. So he conducted
his search in the same untiring way that
had enabled him to get hold of many a
useful piece of wreckage, until at last his
wife — the one in the cottage, of course —
came out and forcibly dragged him off to
breakfast. But not long afterwards he was
back again.

There were two short, low walls on each
side of the approach to the drawbridge ;
and there the hobbles usually sat or
lounged, waiting for something to turn up,
and meanwhile engaged in silent chewing.

or discussing the merits of a vessel recently
arrived, or playing draughts with pebbles
on chess-boards chalked on the limestone
slabs. As Jonathan approached this spot
after his breakfast, there was a game in
progress between a Manxman and a Scotchman
who had been bragging of what he
could do, so it excited considerable interest,
and all the men were gathered around to
watch.

Jonathan, however, went to the other
wall and leaned moodily against it. While
he was peering down into the harbour, his
attention was arrested by something close
to a punt which was attached to the stern
of a small schooner. Looking more closely
he perceived it to be a hand and part of
an arm rising straight out of the water.
Though he had been in many perilous
situations and seen many fearful things,
he afterwards confessed that nothing had

ever affected him more than the sight of
that hand, stretched out as if in a mute
appeal for help.

Jonathan's exclamation brought the
other men to his side. They gazed for a
time in silent awe at what he showed them,
and then went timidly along the quay towards
it. When opposite the punt they
saw, on the other side of it from the hand,
a white face staring glassy-eyed. The face
was that of Macdonald. There could be
no doubt that he had been dead several
hours.

With characteristic caution, Jonathan
called the harbour-master before proceeding
any further, and the harbour-master,
when he had examined into matters for
himself, sent to the police-station, a little
niche in the Castle wall near the gate, for
the chief constable, who presently arrived
and assumed the command. There was

still plenty of water in the harbour — about
the same amount as when Jonathan made
his discovery on the previous night, high
water having occurred midway between.
Some of the men were, therefore, sent onboard
the schooner, a couple descended
into the punt, and so the body was gently
disentangled from the vessel's moorings,
around which it had been twisted by the
combined effect of the river and the tide.
They were very tender with it, these rough
fellows ; though the banker had been execrated
for the ruin he had brought on the
town, all that was forgotten now. When
they had decently covered the face with a
tarpaulin, they set off to carry their melancholy
burden to the house opposite the
smithy, where, at this very moment, Plague
stood at his post — a madman in marble.

Frank, who had just been to inquire
after Diana, came suddenly upon the grim

procession. It was not by any means the
first of the kind he had seen ; those who
live by the side of the sea — the merry
coquette of a summer day — have, alas !
only too many opportunities in this way.
But his must be a strange nature that is
not softened, rather than hardened, by
such sights; and few were more impressionable
than Frank.

Reverently removing his hat, he weijt
forward delicately, as Aga did to Samuel,
to ask what had been the name of the
nameless thing they were carrying with
such tenderness. When he was told
Macdonald the banker,' every particle of
colour fled from his face. This, then,
might be the end of it, unless he curbed
the passions that were struggling within
him ! Murder might be the end of it !
For Frank, thinking of what he had witnessed
only two nights before, could not

but regard Plague as the cause of this
man's death. And yet, such is the irony
sometimes meted out to the double-headed
race of lawyers who think with one head
and argue with the other, it afterwards
fell to Frank's lot to defend Plague.

The Isle of Man is divided into headings,
parishes, and quarterings. Every
sheading has its coroner ; but he has not,
as in England, anything to do with inquests.
There are four officials appointed
for the performance of this important
duty, generally the High Bailiffs of the
four towns, each being then called the
Coroner of Inquests for the district. In
the case of Macdonald's death, the duty
fell upon the High Bailiff of Castletown.

As soon as the event had been notified
to him, he summoned a jury and proceeded
to the house. When the body had been
inspected, most of the jurors huddling

like frightened sheep in the doorway, they
adjourned to a room downstairs, where
the witnesses were already assembled.

The High Bailiff, a particularly cautious
man, instructed the jury that all they had
to do was to certify as to the actual cause
of death. He would therefore especially
direct their attention to the medical evidence.
They were not a court of justice ;
and even if they held that the deceased
had not died through his own act, it was
not for them to point suspicion at anybody
without the clearest evidence, for the
matter would then be carried in all probability
before another tribunal.

Dr. Mylworry was the first witness. He
had carefully examined the body, and
found no marks of violence. In his
opinion, deceased had been asphyxiated by
drowning. With regard to the time, he
was more indefinite, but eventually fixed

upon midnight with a margin of a few
hours on either side.

Mrs. Although, Macdonald's housekeeper
— he was a widower with no family
deposed that her master left the house
shortly after ten on the previous night.
She could not account for his death herself,
but she had heard the neighbours

say

The High Bailiff closed his gold snuffbox
with a snap and promptly stopped her
chatter.

The only other important witness was
Jonathan Vondy. As we already know
what he had to say, it need not be
repeated.

Then followed some evidence as to
Plague's attitude towards the deceased —
similar to what Frank could have given
had it been necessary ; a vague statement
that Black Deborah had been hovering

about the scene shortly before midnight ;
and finally a wishy-washy stream which
his worship soon checked.

Following the line laid down by him,
the jury returned an open verdict 'Found
Drowned.' And the proceedings terminated.
It was a quick thing for a coroner's
inquest; at least it would be considered
so in England now-a-days.

The matter was not allowed to rest here,
however, for the chief constable now
stepped upon the scene. Armed with a
warrant he and another constable proceeded
to arrest Plague. They found him in
the smithy, not standing up to glare across
the road as usual, but sitting on a rusty
plough by the side of the fire. He had
been 'stupid like,' said the blacksmith,
ever since he saw the body being carried
into the house opposite.

They had brought handcuffs, in case of

necessity, but had no need to use them.
When he understood what they wanted of
him, he went quietly enough. There was
a crowd in waiting outside, of course, and
it increased in number as they approached
the Castle-gate. Not a little proud of
their prompt capture, and pretty confident
they had not made a mistake this time, the
constables marched along with a very
soldierly bearing, while the haggard stunned
man between them seemed quite unconscious
of his position. Those who
eagerly pressed forward to look at him,
drew back with a murmur of pity, so great
was the contrast between the flourishing
tradesman that might have been and the
prisoner, charged with murder, that actually
was.

The crowd stopped outside the Castle,
none following along the narrow circling
passage between lofty walls to the great

iron-studded gate, with a little door in it,
wMcli marks the boundary of the outer keep.
There are some stone steps on the right
leading to the court-house, and a number
of houses on the left. The constables took
their prisoner into an office where they
handed him over to the governor of the
gaol. His name having been entered in
the books, a couple of turnkeys next took
charge of him. One, jangling a bunch of
enormous keys, opened another great iron-studded
gate, and, when they had passed
through, closed it with a jarring clash
which at last awoke in Plague some sign of
sensibility. He looked round with a start,
as well he might, for he was nov cut off
from the world in which he had lived.
He was conducted to a small dark and
dreadful cell : and here, buried alive within
fifteen feet of solid masonry, he remained
for many a long day.

VOL. I. U

Although it is somewhat anticipating
events, it may be better to state briefly here
the course of procedure in this miserable
case. There will then be no need to refer
to the intermediate stages again.

The prisoner Alas first committed for
trial by the magistrates. Then the Actors
having been informed by the
governor of the gaol that Richard Plague
was in custody on a charge of murder,
called upon the Southern Deemster to institute
a court of inquiry. This preliminary
court consisted of the Deemster and
six special j jurors belonging to the sheading
of Rushen in which the parish of Maleww
is situated, for the statute requires that
they should be chosen from the sheading
where the crime has been committed.
Knowing Plague's antecedents, they may
have been unconsciously biassed against
him ; at any rate, they sent the case on to

the Court of General Gaol Delivery, as
the Manx Assizes are called. May and
November were the usual times for holding
this court, unless the Lieutenant-governor,
who sat as president, should select an
earlier date. So Plague had about two
months of suspense before him : a period
that, whatever change it wrought in him,
brought his mother to her death-bed and
transformed his sweetheart, Ruth Teare,
from a girl into a heavy-hearted woman.

Many hard things have been said
against childishness, but it had one preeminent
virtue : it was a far more efficient
check upon crime than a multitude of
policemen. For, besides the reputation of
the individual, there was the reputation of
the community to be kept clear of the
mire, and every tie of kinship and friendship
was a link in the chain that performed
this double function. Hence, serious

u2

offences were rare in the island, and the
supposed murder by Plague was considered
a terrible reproach upon the whole town.
This feeling went far towards eradicating
any pity for him, and might, if he were
acquitted, isolate him hereafter. But it
nevertheless claimed that he should be
defended in the best way possible. Public
opinion was not, therefore, very well
satisfied, when a young advocate like
Frank was selected for this onerous duty.

Mrs. Plague sent for him soon after she
heard what had happened. Stricken
down by the news, feeling that she would
never again be able to look her neighbours
in the face, she had taken to her bed.
And there Frank found her, attended by
Ruth, whose tears had been dried up by
this last catastrophe.

She wished him to undertake the defence
for a very womanly reason : because

he had been friendly to her son in his
better days, and the last advocate he had
had anything to do with. She produced a
worsted stocking, thriftily darned, containing
a considerable number of sovereigns,
which she emptied upon the patchwork
coverlet. She had been saving up the
money for many, many years, in order to
pay for her funeral and also to leave a
little behind her. As the withered hands
tremblingly shook the coins from their
resting-place, her eyes again filled with
tears. Between what she had proposed
and what had been disposed for her, it was
indeed a sad contrast for the poor old
thing.

Take it all,' she said, in her quavering
voice. the Lord's will be done. But
eh ! Master Frank, it's sometimes hard to
say it's for the best.'

Notwithstanding the calamity that had

befallen her, she still retained her pride
and independence, and so strenuously did
she insist upon Frank's taking the money,
that he was obliged to do so. He determined,
however, to return it to her at the
earliest opportunity, which would probably
occur in connection with her son's
ill-fated deposit at the bank.

Under other circumstances the conducting
of this case would have afforded Frank
the greatest gratification, his work having
hitherto lain in the inferior courts where
the honour was as scanty as the remuneration.
But, as events had turned out, the
chance of rising in his profession brought
only bitterness and regret, until he thought
of his uncle who would be delighted at
being asked to assist in a case of such importance.
This thought made Frank feel
rather more happy.

As he walked along the street from Mrs.

Plague's house, he looked very much subdued.
The change which was apparent in
his bearing as well as in his expression, had
originated with the shocking the morning and
had been intensified by his recent interview.
It suggested a large amount of self-restraint
almost a new thing with him. And surely
if any man had need to keep his feelings
under bit and bridle, Frank had. Diana
was better and likely to recover, in which
case he would be married to one woman
whom he did not love, and engaged to
another whom he did ! A husband and
yet not a husband, what was he ?

Distractedly puzzling over this question,
he heard a merry voice singing behind
him :

The king can only sing a song,

And I can do the same ;
1 sings some short and others long,
And that's the for I came.'

When the words ceased, Frank felt himself
tapped on the shoulder and, turning
round, saw Bobby Beg, grinning.

What can I do for you, Bobby Beg T

Nought, Masther Frank.'

Then what do you want ?'

Can I spake With you, Masther Frank ?'

Certainly,' replied Frank, little dreaming
of the bomb the Simpleton was about
to drop upon him.

CHAPTER XIV.

Another ACCOMPLISHED FACT.

Shortly before Frank's engagement, Mrs.
Sherwood and Diana were walking in the
garden behind their house. They were
talking earnestly, without any heed to
Bobby Beg who was digging close by.
Diana had in her hand some scraps of
paper which she dropped from time to time,
one here and another there, carelessly and
yet not without some method.

Mother she said, ' did you ever know
me miss a thing I had set my heart upon ?
No, you never did. And I tell you this :
I love Frank and intend to marry him.'

Hush !' said Mrs. Sherwood, nodding
warningly at Bobby Beg.

Nonsense ! He's only a fool.'
The fool has yet to be discovered who
can with equanimity hear himself called
an unqualified fool. Bobby Beg took it
seriously to heart ; from that time he kept
a vigilant watch upon his mistress with
the vague idea of finding out something to
his advantage. When Frank and the
chaplain entered the house, Bobby Beg
saw them, and, by an easy process of
reasoning, concluded that Diana's expressed
intention was on the point of
fulfilment. A servant who listened at the
door until she heard the commencement of
the marriage service, verified his conclusion
; from which he sprang to another,
very characteristic of an idiot's low cunning
that Diana was shamming. This was
the story communicated by him to Black

Deborah, and by her to Ned, who put his
foot on it and crushed it. Feeh'n^ that
he had not got enough satisfaction out of
it, Bobby Beg now brought it to Frank.

She called me a fool, Masther Frank,'
said he, still harping upon the same theme.
It's not always safe, though, to say things
before a fool.' By which remark Bobby
Beg proved himself to be wiser than ho
looked.

And have you come here,' demanded
Frank, when he could collect his thoughts,
to tell lies about — a lady ?'

Bobby Beg's blue eyes stared vacantly
the fear of another fiasco having driven
his mind to the brink of a chaotic condition,
into which another slight push would
certainly send it. He took off the brimless
hat, scratched his yellow head, and stared
again.

Have you any proof ?' asked Frank,,
impatiently.

Proof !' slowly repeated Bobby Beg,
looking at the ground. 'Proof! Never
heard tell of it.'

Confound the fellow ! Have you anything
more to say ?*

Nought. But will you just look at
this, Masther Frank ?'

After fumbling among the many pockets
of his three coats, he produced a soiled
sheet of paper which had once been torn
into small pieces and had afterwards been
pasted on a grocer's bag. They were, in fact,
the very pieces that Diana had thrown away
in the garden. Having a certain jackdaw-like
propensity which led him to appropriate
the most useless things, Bobby Beg
had carefully collected them, and this was
the result. Unable to read, he had asked
Jonathan Vondy to decipher the writing
for him, and Jonathan, after wisely looking
through his spectacles at the paper

held the wrong side up, had declared it to
be something about a shipwreck. He was
by no means as wide of the mark as he
might have been. However, this explanation
did not accord with Bobby Beg's
ideas, so he appealed to some one else, who
read the paper more literally.

It was, as Frank saw, scribbled all over
with one sentence, repeated many times
with but few and slight variations ; a thing
one often does when holding a pen in
one's hand, and absently thinking of
a single idea. The sentence was this, ' I
love him !' and the handwriting was unmistakably
Diana's.

After all, it did not amount to much ; a
dispassionate mind would doubtless have
rejected it entirely. But Frank, labouring
under a sense of injury, saw in it a corroboration
of Bobby Beg's story, which, he
forgot, it might have suggested. How else

was Diana s recovery to be explained ? Dr.
Mylworry had described it as little short
of marvellous : she had appeared to be in
the very jaws of death but two days ago,
and now she was fairly on the road to
health. Why, even his uncle had said she
was in love with him !

In the end Frank treated Bobby Beg
with more courtesy than Black Deborah
had done, and went off to interview Diana.
He had not actually judged her as yet, he
said to himself ; he would be guided by her
answers to his questions. At the same
time his mind was certainly not free from
prejudice.

Mrs. Sherwood conducted him upstairs.

I wish to speak to Diana alone he said
to her at the door. ' I have something very
particular to say to her.'

'Nothing that will agitate her, I hope,
Frank?'

He had not thought of this, a sure sign
he was not in love with Diana.

'No,' he replied, doubtfully, *I don't
think so. I'll be careful what I say and
how I say it.'

Mrs. Sherwood who did not know what
to think of the present state of affairs,
looked at him anxiously. It did not need
a mother's eyes to see that something unpleasant
was to be expected. She had no
great confidence in this impulsive young
fellow's powers of self-control, but, knowing
what her daughter's wish would be, allowed
him to enter the room alone.

Though still very weak, Diana had regained
much of her former self; but with
a difference, which it is not easy to describe.
It was hard to imagine her as ever having
been frivolous, giddy, or capricious ; the
worst part of the woman seemed to have
been pierced " in the tender love of the

wife. With an affectionate and judicious
husband, she had, one would have said, a
long and happy life before her. The pale
blue jacket, prettily edged with lace, which
she wore now, lent more colour to her
cheeks than they really possessed, and the
colour deepened as Frank entered. She
greeted him with just such a smile as a
young mother bestows on her new-born
babe. But his frown never relaxed ; he
pretended not to see the hand she held out
to him ; he placed a chair at some little
distance from the bed and sat down without
a word.

Diana's beautiful eyes were fixed on him
with apprehension. They never once left
his face until he had told his story. Then
she stilled her heaving bosom, and said
coldly,

^ "We are beginning life together badly,
Frank. Distrust between husband and

wife — have you thought what it may lead
to? Did you desire my death so very
earnestly that you must be unjust?' But
the tenderness that was in her could be
restrained no longer, and her whole soul
went out in the cry : * Oh, Frank, I love sou
I love you — I love you.'

It is not every man who could turn a
deaf ear to such an appeal from a beautiful
woman. But, if Frank was nothing else,
he was at least constant to Nessie. It maybe
said that this very constancy had now
become a sin. Possibly ; the art of accommodating
one's self to circumstances is
not confined to weather-cocks, but Frank
had it not. He had very many faults and
this among them.

Then it's true,' he exclaimed.

Diana's look of reproach went through
him like a knife. When she had recovered
from the shock caused by his words, she

VOL. I. X

said, ' No, it's not true. Yet you are so
hard on me — so terribly hard — that,
when you have heard all, you may not
hold me altogether innocent. Listen,
Frank, and bear with me gently. Oh, my
husband, won't you love me a little ?'

As Frank continued to stare silently at
the carpet, it was with a weary sigh she
went on :

Hear me, then, before you judge me !
That afternoon when I learned you were
pledged to another, there was not a more
miserable woman in the world. I felt
utterly desperate. My mother only increased
my burden by incessant inquiries
as to what was the matter, and at night I
went away by myself to the rocks at
Scarlettt. There, as she told you, I caught
a cold. It grew worse, and I did nothing
to stop it. Why should I ? Alone, hopelessly
alone, I didn't care what became of

me. I really wished to die — for you,
Frank ; indeed, I almost tried to die, for I
neglected to take the doctor's remedies.
At last, he said the end was at hand.
Then — then, and not before — an idea
entered my head. I thought I saw a way
of doing you a good turn and at the same
time of gaining a short but inexpressibly
sweet pleasure for myself. I mean, by our
marriage.'

She almost sobbed out the last word and
looked at him wistfully for some sign of
relenting. But, getting none, she resumed
in the same sad low tones :

But as soon as we were married, I was
seized with a desperate longing to live :
to enjoy that pleasure — the pleasure of
being your wife — a little longer. I now
obeyed the doctor s orders ; love and hope
gave me new strength ; I am recovering, as
you see. But for what? That remains

x2

with you. Do you remember our conversations
together ? Do you remember telling
me you would manfully accept an
accomplished fact ? I have relied upon
that. Frank,' she said, softly, and a blush
stole over the lovely face which was turned
fondly towards him as it rested on the
pillow, ' my husband, you have never once
offered to give me a kiss ; will you kiss me
now?'

As she concluded her lips closed involuntarily
and formed themselves into
the most bewitching shape in anticipation
of the coming kiss ; but when she saw
Frank's unbending attitude, there came
a flash into her eyes which should have
warned him of the danger ahead. He
did not see it, however, and her tears
soon extinguished it. She lay back tired,
white, and scarcely breathing as she listened
to him.

It seemed possible said Frank, speaking
with great deliberation and taking no
notice of her question, * that your share in
the matter had been different from what T
now see it has really been. For my unjust
suspicions, I humbly beg your pardon , Diana.
As the same time, you yourself admit that
you gave some cause for them ; you misled
the doctor and therefore misled me. That
fact cannot but influence my conduct in
the future, for there is another besides myself
to be considered.*

Oh, Frank !' exclaimed Diana, shivering
piteously. This cold dispassionate way of
speaking, so unlike himself, struck her
with a deadly chill. She began to fear
that what she had striven for so hard,
might, after all, be farther off than ever.

Any wrong against myself, I hope I
could forgive ; the slightest wrong against
Nessie, I can't. It was her sweetness ' —

poor Diana winced at every word — her
goodness, her kindness, and her pity
for you, that induced her to consent to
our marriage; it was that and nothing
else. Yet by that very act she is compelled
to suffer bitterly for — for ever
said he, with a wrench. *And why?
Because you misled the doctor and me.
By the way ' — he started and looked fixedly
at her — ' did your father make such a will
as you described to me ?'

Do you doubt me ?' she indignantly
demanded, after a short hesitation. But it
was only a flash. She went on, piteously :
Oh, Frank, how hard you are ! Why
won't you see without my having to tell
you everything? You had lost your
money, and I wished you to have some of
mine. I thought and hoped my death
would do some good — some good to you,
dear. Was I wrong ? I wanted to benefit

you, Frank — you and mother equally.'

Frank seemed rather puzzled. He had
attempted to interrupt her, but she had
continued talking, and so his question was
not repeated.

I pity you from my heart,' he said,
rising.

She made an imploring gesture to stop
him, but he continued, relentlessly :

As I pity ISTessie and as I pity myself.
But for the great wrong you have done us
we must never meet again under the same
roof.' He strode from the room and left
her sobbing bitterly.

If Frank had looked before him as he
rushed out of the house he would certainly
have avoided Dalrymple and Nugent who
were talking in the market-place. But he
did not see them or indeed anything. His
grievance which had now assumed a
definite shape had quite upset him, and he

was the more agitated because of the
effort it had cost him to control his
emotion.

Dalrymple, who was carrying a large
parcel under his arm, was the first to see
Frank. He said, with a smile to Nugent :

Here comes the choleric islander. By
George, Nugent, he is properly nobbled if
ever a man was. I doubt if I could have
done it better myself. Except for that
lubberly fellow Christorey, I have it all my
own way now.'

'But how nobbled?'

Why, he married the widow for her
money, hoping she would die, when he
could marry the pretty — Miss Nessie Col-quite.
But she recovers to spite him, and he
is up a tree. Serve him right, I say. A
more disgraceful thing I have never heard
of.'

It does sound rather mercenary,'

admitted Nugent, * if your version is correct.
Is Mrs. Knightonon better, then ?'

Good-afternoon,' said Dalrjmple, turning
to Frank. Then he added, with mock
sympathy : ' I hope Mrs. Maddrell is
better ?'

It was the first time Frank had heard
the name, and it cut him to the quick
But by a powerful effort he replied,
quietly :

Yes, thank you.'

I'm exceedingly glad to hear it. You
must have had a very anxious time.'

Very,' said Frank, burning with a
desire to kick the lanky drawling fellow
who chaffed him with such consummate
coolness.

I'm just on my way to call at Claddagh
House; you're not going in that direction,
I suppose?'

No,' replied poor Frank, though such

had been his intention ; ^ I'm going
indoors.'

And he did go indoors, but he could not
stay there. The sight of his old uncle
sitting at his desk, waiting patiently for
the client who had never yet appeared, was
bad enough. But the idea of Dalrymple
making love to Nessie was still worse ;
indeed, it was altogether intolerable.

So Frank soon followed Dalrymple to
Claddagh House, whither Ned had preceded
them. Seldom have three men met
under stranger conditions.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON : Printed BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, Blenheim HOUSE.

*; -i

w.

^S.

\M

\

\

\

VOL. II.

GREEN HILLS BY THE SEA

A MANX STORY

BY

HUGH COLEMAN DAVIDSON

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

LONDON:

HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT ]\LAJlLBOROUGH STREET.

1887.

All rights reserved.

%

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER I.

FRIEND AND LOVER.

Ned said Major Christorey, standing
stiffly on the lawn in front of his orderly
shrubs as if he were on parade with his
men behind him, ' now that that crack-brained
young Maddrell is out of the way,
you will lose no time in doing what you
ought to have done before.'

What is that ?' asked Ned, colouring.
He knew well enough, but wished to have
it put more definitely.

VOL. II. B

Marry Nessie, of course.'

'You forget, sir, that I am Frank's
friend.'

And pray, what has friendship to do
with it?'

I can't quite explain my feelings,'
replied Wed, awkwardly, pegging at the
lawn with his stick. ' It seems just as if
Nessie had lately lost her husband — my
friend. Under such circumstances you
wouldn't have me propose to her, I'm
sure.'

There spoke my own son Ned,' said a
gentle voice. And turning they beheld
Mrs. Christorey with a shawl over her
shoulders.

The major stared at her and then at
Ned.

Another conspiracy !' he exclaimed at
length. 'First, a conspiracy to marry
Nessie, and now a conspiracy to leave her

in the lurch ! Well, I'll be shot if I can
understand a woman — or a man, if Ned is
sone !'

Ned is not seeking anything for himself,
Reginald,' said Mrs. Christie. ' On
the other hand, he is giving up — for a
time, at any rate — what he had earnestly
set his heart upon. It can have cost him
no ordinary pang to have come to this
decision. I think it a noble decision, Ned,
and feel very proud of my son.'

This put the matter in a new and softer
light for the major. But, for all that, he
did not relinquish his own idea. Turning
to Ned, he asked, curtly :

Where are you going now T

To Claddagh House.'

^ Then go. And,' added he to his wife,
when they were alone, ' nature will do the
rest.'

Why, it may be asked, was he so bent

b2

upon Ned's marrying lassie when he had
once appeared to be strongly opposed to
an alliance with any of the Colquitts ?
There are some people, not a few, to whom
opposition is much the same thing as a red
rag to a bull— an invitation to proceed ;
the thicker the brick wall before them, the
more resolutely do they bang their wooden
heads against it. Major Christorey belonged
to this class, his wife being the only
person who could manage him. She had
set his head in the direction of Ned's
marriage with Nessie and he had been going
in the same direction ever since, withall
the more determination because of
Frank's engagement. This obstacle being
now removed, it had become very difficult
to turn him.

This by itself would have been a sufficient
reason for his attitude; but there
was also another. His chivalrous instincts

had been aroused by the strong feeling
which had set in against the Colquitts, and,
like a true soldier, he had ranged himself
on the side of the weak. Nobody knew
who had originated this feeling or who
augmented it, but the fact was undeniable.
The Colquitts were generally regarded as
having conspired together for a most
mercenary and disgraceful act, and were
shunned accordingly. Now, public opinion,
unless properly directed, is not unlike a
boy's slice of bread-and-jam prepared by
himself ; in other words, it consists of a
maximum of trash with a minimum of
healthy food. The present case was no
exception. The Colquitts may have been
blameworthy, but to condemn a whole
family unheard was a gross injustice ; and
Nessie, at any rate, deserved the sincerest
pity. However, if they had all been
egregiously in the wrong, the major would

none the less have espoused their cause
simply because public opinion with its
many tongues was against them. He had
a very shrewd idea that Fabian Dalrymple,
whom he detested, was at the bottom of it;
and never lost an opportunity of making
his own voice heard on the opposite side.
Even if a marriage could not be arranged
an hypothesis he refused to entertain — he
was determined to show his sympathy with
the Colquitts.

This will explain why Major Christorey
was so ready to bid his son go to Claddagh
House.

When Ned arrived there, he saw Mr.
Colquitt in the garden, and, leaving Toby
outside, went after him. He had, as we
have seen, already placed his purse at
Frank's disposal ; he now made the same
offer to Nessie's father in nearly the same
terms.

Have you come from your father T
asked Mr. Colquitt, looking with surprise
over the shrinking-net he held in his
hand.

'No stammered Ned, the blood rushing
to his face as it always did on the smallest
provocation. He considered the answer
one to be ashamed of on his father's
account rather than proud of on his own.

Strange!' said Mr. Colquitt. 'Then
he has been before you, Ned, my good
fellow. He has most kindly offered to be
my banker until I can get hold of some
money.'

Has he !' exclaimed Ned, ashamed of
himself now — that is to say, of his injustice
to his father.

But hush !' whispered Mr. Colquitt, laying
a hand on Ned's arm and looking round
nervously. * Not a word to my wife on
any account. Not a word to anybody,

remember, Ned. That was your father's
wish and it's mine, too. You took me
rather by surprise, you see ; otherwise, I
shouldn't have told you.'

Oh, but I won't tell a soul.'

Then run away, that's a good fellow.
You'll find them all in the drawing-room.
If my wife should see you here with me,
she would guess in a moment what we
were talking about. You don't know ' — he
positively began to shake in his shoes —
what an alarmingly sharp woman she is
at finding out things.'

It had not been Ned's intention to visit
the rest of the family, but a desire to see
how Nessie was bearing her trouble and to
find out, if possible, some way of helping
her, proved too strong for him. He was
admitted by Sheval, who showed him upstairs
to the drawing-room ; where Mona
was making some wax flowers, Nessie reading,

and Mrs. Colquitt sitting with folded
hands, discoursing on her husband's
lamentable idleness and the miseries in
store for his pauper wife and children.

^ September she was saying just before
Ned entered, 'is a most dreadful month.
I always wonder where I shall be when
the next comes round. In Maleww churchyard
probably. A walking funeral, no
gloves or husbands, no breakfast '

Suppose, mother dear,' interrupted
Mona, ' you talk about weddings for a
change.'

Well,' said Mrs. Colquitt, complacently
accepting the suggestion, * there's a good
deal to be said about weddings. In my
opinion, they ought to be simplified like
funerals.'

You dear old ingenious beauty !' exclaimed
Nessie, looking up with a smile.

It was at this moment that Ned entered,

stumbling over the door-mat as he came
in. He had scarcely taken his seat when
the door again opened : to admit Dalrymple,
who immediately proceeded to make himself
at home. Seeing in him a way out of
her difficulties, Mrs. Colquitt greeted him
most cordially. So did Mona, though fora
different reason ; she thought he would
sooner or later spur Ned forward to grasp
the prize that was dangling before his eyes.
Nessie received him merely as a friend.
All this scheming was quite beyond her.
Though she did force a smile occasionally,
she was much too depressed to take her
share in the conversation.

The parcel which Dalrymple had
brought with him, turned out to be a
portrait of Nessie painted by himself from
memory. It was a rash thing to exhibit it
before a rival ; the fact that he did so, will
prove, better than anything else, how

low he rated Ned, whose kindly nature
was unknown to him. When he had
taken off the wrappings, set it on a chair
in a favourable light, and posed himself
by its side, he invited the party to inspect
it.

With Mrs. Colquitt in the centre, they
grouped themselves before it. She looked
at it much as a parrot looks at a nut — first
with one eye and then with the other.
When by severe self-control she had given
her critical powers time to form a trustworthy
opinion, she went into raptures over
it and sent to compel her husband to come
in and do likewise. Mona was less effusive
in praise of the picture ; and Nessie
said but little, probably because she considered
herself involved in its production.
Ned, however, was entirely silent. Noticing
this, Dalrymple said, with an ill-disguised
look of amusement :

'And what do you think of it, Mr.
Christorey T

Here was Ned's chance. ' Yes, no
doubt a very creditable performance. A
little stiff here, perhaps, and rather out of
proportion there. Don't you think so
yourself ? The lights and shadows want
management, and surely the eyes have a
trifling squint. And the hands — are those
the hands, by the way?' Something of
this sort might possibly have stuck to
Dalrymple, notwithstanding his disdain for
the critic. But Ned never let prejudice
weigh with him ; he was thoroughly and
perhaps clumsily honest.

It's a very pretty picture, 'he said, looking
at it closely, ' but it's not Nessie at all.'

Mrs. Colquitt threw up her hands in
horror, but there was a mischievous light
in Mona's Gjes>.

^ Indeed,' remarked Dalrymple, frigidly.

Not at all;

You paint, I suppose ?'

Oh, no. But nobody ever saw Nessie
look like that, I'm sure. That lady there
is very beautiful, but she hasn't Nessie's
expression. But,' stammered he, suddenly
struck by something in Dalrymple's face,
perhaps, you think me rude ; I didn't
mean to be.'

Rude !' said Dalrymple, scornfully.
Oh dear, no ! Ignorance — you don't paint,
you said — is not rudeness.'

There followed an awkward silence, for
none could deny the truth of Ned's outspoken
criticism now that the fault had
been pointed out to them. There it was,
a likeness of Nessie without her charming
sweetness of expression, staring them in
the face so plainly that they marvelled at
their previous blindness. If Nessie, now
trying to hide her blushes, had not succeeded

in teaching Ned brotherly love, she
had certainly turned him into a first-rate
art critic, though the connection between
the two may not be very obvious in a
general way.

Mrs. Colquitt, feeling that her error in
judgment had to be explained away, now
announced that she never could see very
clearly without her glasses. As they were
not in her pocket, she had to go away and
look for them.

During her absence, the others were
startled by an unearthly groan, a succession
of loud shrieks, hurried footsteps ; and
finally Mrs. Colquitt burst into the room,
threw herself on the couch, and went into
hysterics. Frank, who entered almost at
the same moment, thoughtfully fetched a
jug of water, at the sight of which she
shoon recovered. Then she sat up and

gave rather a rambling account of what had
happened.

It appeared that as she was on the point
of entering her bed-room, she was dismayed
to find it tenanted by the Lhiannan Shee.
This very ^ familiar spirit not content
with the usual ghostly trick of slamming
the door in her face, had groaned at her
most hideously ; ' and then said this full-bodied
angel, * I turned and flew It was
altogether a very horrible tale. She had
known all along, she declared, that the
house was haunted. Was there ever a
shipwreck on the coast around without her
hearing the warning voice of the Glashtyn,
or seeing the funeral lights to indicate the
number of the drowned? And now here was
this frightful encounter with the Lhiannan
Shee, in her bed-room of all places in the
world !

Frank took the poker and went to look

for the It really is very difficult to

find a suitable term of reproach for a
ghost; for while Hogmanhas a sufficiently
unpleasant sound, it is confined to the
hairy creatures of the hills, and fiend
seems rather strong. Let us call him a
fellow, then, for his ungentlemanly behaviour
in intruding into Mrs. Colquitt's
sanctum, Frank, it may be supposed,
would have found it no easy matter to
break this fellow's head with the poker, but
he was certainly beginning to show a more
practical turn of mind as well as a somewhat
common-place way of regarding
ghosts. However, his mission proved unsuccessful.
He returned to say there was
no making sure of a slippery fellow like
the Lhiannan Shee ; whereupon Mrs. Col-quite
had a slight relapse, induced by the
idea of sleeping in a haunted bed-room.

Though her husband's hand has doubtless
been seen in this mysterious occurrence, it
may not have been seen'that Dalrymple stood
behind him, yet such is the fact. Mr. Col-quite
had often deplored the absence of
reptiles from the island, and Dalrymple,
having once heard him say that he should
like a toad above everything, had obligingly
procured one for him. Delighted with
his new pet, yet afraid to show it, he had
carried it up to the bed-room to gloat over
it at his leisure. But the toad, less pleased
with its position than he was, had
escaped from him and slipped under the
bed. It became necessary to recover the
truant as soon as possible, otherwise there
might be a tremendous row in the house.
The toad had a monarch-of-all-it-surveyed
look which put bribery out of the question ;
there was evidently nothing to be done
but go after it. After listening a while,

VOL. II. C

Mr. Colquitt dived under the great four-poster,
drove the creature out on the other
side, and was about to scramble after it,
when, oh horror ! he heard his wife in the
passage.

An ordinary being would have walked
out and explained matters in some graceful
and perhaps untruthful way. But this
hen-pecked husband, having had his last
scrap of courage torn out of him long
ago, was in the habit of employing all sorts
of subtleties to veil his proceedings. He
nimbly leaped behind the door, slammed it
in the face of his startled wife, and, while
making hideous grimaces as if she could
see him through the woodwork, commenced
groaning such horrible groans as would
have him enabled to take high rank as a
politician. No wonder that Mrs. Colquitt
flew. Such an appalling phenomenon would

have given wings to a creature far less
angelic.

Presently, he entered the drawing-room
in his usual way : with a frantic rush at
the handle, a bent leg, as if in the utmost
haste, shot through the scarcely
opened door ; and then a meagre body
coming in to bow confidentially to the
handle. After which he trotted to his
chair by the grate and sat down, looking
sublimely meek and innocent.

Is there anything the matter ?' he inquired,
with tender interest, at the sight of
the agitated lady on the couch.

^ Mother has had an attack of hysterics,'
replied Mona.

Indeed ! what was the cause of it ?*

She encountered,' replied Dalrymple,
scarcely repressing a smile, * the Lhiannan
Shee in her bed-room.'

c 2

Ob ! Ah ! The Lhiannan Shee !'
gravely observed Mr. Colquitt, feeling if
the toad was safe in bis pocket. ' I'll go
and look for him.' And, seemingly wrapt in
meditation, he left the room ; but only to
be called back by his wife.

A question asked by Dalrymple had
aroused her suspicions. He had inquired
where Mr. Colquitt was at the time ; and
when her husband entered, she watched
him narrowly. His manner was altogether
too innocent to be genuine. She was soon
convinced of that, and now put the question
to him point-blank.

It must be considered a remarkable fact
that, notwithstanding his many shuffling
ways, he prided himself on his truthfulness.
While giving to those who chose to take
them plenty of opportunities for jumping
at false conclusions, he was always careful
to avoid telling a falsehood ; and when, as

now, driven into a corner, he displayed the
courage of despair. So what did he do
but tell his story from beginning to end,
and, in corroboration, produce his witness
from the pocket of his coat ! He grasped
the toad firmly in the palm of his hand,
and, gazing at it with evident admiration,
held it out to his wife.

The result was sensational. Mrs. Col-quite
stared in terror at the toad blinking
at her venomously, uttered a loud scream,
and fell back on the couch. Jessie and
Mona hastened to their mother's assistance ;
Ned looked about in painful bewilderment ;
and, before Frank could leave his seat,
Dalrymple was leading the surprised
husband from the room. The toad never
made another public appearance at
Claddagh House.

By giving it, Dalrymple had earned Mr.
Colquitt's gratitude ; by taking it away, he

earned Mrs. Colquitt's gratitude ; and bj
sowing dissension between husband and
wife, it had fulfilled another purpose,
besides the double one just mentioned.
His object may be expressed in these
words : Divide et Impera. He was bent
upon marrying Nessie to whom he had
become strongly attached in his own selfish
way, and he saw that, as the feeling was
not reciprocal, he had a hard task before
him. Against a united family backed by
the influence of a powerful body of friends,
he would have stood no chance. Consequently
he set to work not only to isolate
the family from its neighbours but also to
break it up into separate units. He had
time, money, almost every advantage on
his side; his most dangerous rival had been
got rid of ; the only thing against him was
the fact that Bessie did not love him.
But did she love anybody else ? Did

she still love Frank, a married man ? At
any rate, her engagement ring had disappeared.
Yes, the little gold circlet, set
with pearls and diamonds, which was to
have been her close companion for her lifetime,
was no longer on her finger. And
oh, what agony thrilled through Frank
when he noticed its absence !

When her mother had recovered, he
made frantic signs to Nessie to leave the
room so that he might follow her out ; but
she resolutely kept her face averted. Mona,
however, was quick to see what was going
on.

'Frank,' she said, 4 should like a private
talk with you. Will you come with me into
the garden ?'

So they left the room together.

CHAPTER 11.

A DEADLOCK.

What is it, Mona ?' asked Frank rather
anxiously, as they paced the gravel walk
together. Her authority was so great in
the house that he felt almost everything
depended upon her view of the matter, and
he was uneasy because he had always
thought her a little cold-blooded.

Before I answer, Frank she said, in
deliberate tones that made him shiver and
look at her face, which, though not unkindly,
seemed to have hardened with
some set purpose, ' I should like you to
tell me the old legend about the fiddler.'

About the fiddler !' he exclaimed, staring
to see whether she was laughing at
him. As she remained perfectly grave, he
added : ' But don't you know it ?'
*l'm not quite sure of the details.'
*0h! then, I'll tell it with pleasure,*
said Frank. * One dark December night a
fiddler was returning home from a wake,
when he was accosted by a stranger who
asked him whether he would enter into an
agreement to play for a party of friends
during the twelve nights of Christmas.
He replied he would, and the bargain was
struck by his receiving the ]olng earlysJ^
A moment later, however, he was terror-stricken,
for he saw the stranger disappear
into the earth. He thought he
had sold himself to a Personage whom to
name is to summon. When he had regained
the use of his legs, he ran to the

Earnest penny.

vicar and asked what he should do
under the circumstances. The vicar looked
at the matter more cheerfully. ^* As you
have taken the 'ping early' he said, ^' you
must perform your share in the transaction,
no matter whether the other party
be the Personage you think or not ; but be
very careful to play nothing but psalms."
The fiddler faithfully adhered to the instructions,
much to the disgust of the company
who had come to dance. They thrashed
the unfortunate man soundly and then disappeared,
leaving him to limp home as
best he might.'

And suppose said Mona, * he had not
carried out the vicar's instructions ?'

*Why, he would never have seen his
home again.'

Just so,' assented Mona. ' And now
what you have to do is to fiddle psalms

most assiduously. 'No, Frank, you needn't
look at me in that way, for I mean kindly,
you may be sure. But you young people
are so thoughtless ; you need somebody to
be always looking after you. I repeat, if
you would keep a home over your head,
you must do as the fiddler did — stick to
your bargain and fiddle psalms.'

Mona,' said Frank, with the quietness of
suppressed emotions, ' I sometimes think
you are merely a calculating machine.'

Perhaps I am. I have so many heads
to calculate for; and now, you see, I have
to calculate more than ever.'

Is it by Nessie's wish you have told me
this?'

Yes and no, Frank. I have impressed
my wish upon her. She is so sweetly
innocent that she must have someone to
guide her, strangely placed as she is now.

I have said only what I consider right ;
what, as her sister and your friend, I consider
best for both.'

May I see her ?'

'With what object? To add to her
distress V

Surely, Mona,' cried Frank, 'you know
me better than that ! If I love her, she
also loves me ; and I must learn her wishes
so that 1 may act accordingly.'

Nessie's wish,' replied the practical
Mona, 'is to be left alone. If she had
never seen you, she would have loved and
married somebody else. Ah ! you wince,
but it's true. In my opinion, Cupid should
be painted, not as an innocent babe with
wings, but as a mad dog with tusks, and
the only remedy for hydrophobia is caustic,
applied remorselessly and at once.
Although you and Nessie have been
bitten badly, caustic and common sense

will cure you both. Now that she can'fc
marry you, her love and yours will die out
eventually. It's in the nature of things,
Frank ; we can't go on struggling or even
wishing for an impossibility. And I know
you are not so selfish as to wish it otherwise.
Remember, in no other way can
[Bessie regain her happiness.'

Yes, I see that,' admitted Frank, not
without a wrench. Then he hesitated and
at last stammered out : ' This caustic you
speak of — is it a marriage with some one
else?'

'Yes,' replied Mona, after a pause, 'but
of course not for a time. I think it better
to tell you the whole truth, for there maybe
a difficulty and we feel we can rely upon
you not to add to it. Nessie is a most
irrational little thing. As she sanctioned
your marriage with Diana, she considers
herself morally bound to lead a single life.

Whether or not she will adhere to that
determination when she learns how opposed
it is to our wishes, remains to be seen.'

Is it wonderful that Frank breathed a
deep sigh of relief ? Is it wonderful that
he felt he had never loved Nessie more
than he did at that moment ? Condemn
him if you will, but admit that he was
human. He could not give up the vague
hope that the future might enable him and
Nessie to come together again ; just as two
streams which have resulted from a single
river, sometimes reunite before they reach
the sea.

Matters had now arrived at a deadlock
which may be summarised thus : Diana in
love with Frank and firmly married to him ;
Frank refusing to recognise the marriage
and still holding by his engagement to
ISTessie ; Ned in love with Nessie, yet
restrained by that very love as well as by

friendship for Frank from showing his
feelings ; Dalrymple also in love with
!Bessie, who, however, did not care for
him ; and finally Nessie, like Frank, considering
herself bound to him, now a
married man. Truly, a desperate entanglement
! To pull at any one string
was only to tighten the rest. Some were
pretty sure to break before the knot could
be unravelled.

The first step in this direction was made
by Mrs. Sherwood who, meek creature as
she usually was, could show a fine set of
teeth in defence of her daughter. She
sent Frank a note requesting a private
interview at his office. And there, when
the cooking apparatus had been put out of
sight, the cellaret converted into an innocent
sideboard, and the sails and ropes tidied
up a bit, he received this brown old lady
in all her Indian finery, a gorgeous shawl

on her back and a blaze of rings on her
fingers. She made a most ceremonious
entrance, took the chair he offered her,
and then proceeded to business.

^ Have you and Diana quarrelled ?' she
asked, curtly.

I can t exactly call it a quarrel. At
the same time, there is an obstacle between
us which can never be removed.'

'May I ask what it is?'

i'm afraid I can't tell you, Mrs.
Sherwood.'

^ Do you mean to tell me, your wife's
mother,' said the old lady, whose eyes
began to glitter dangerously, ' that, without
giving any reason, you intend to live
apart from your wife ?'

'Yes,' replied Frank, looking straight
before him, ^ that is a correct statement of
the case.'

He had, it will be remembered, adopted

the same attitude towards Mona. Though
he thought himself perfectly justified in
his conduct, he could not defend it without
inculpating Diana ; and therefore, she being
a woman and he a man, he had resolved
to hold his tongue.

Have you considered,' asked Mrs.
Sherwood, after a stare of angry surprise,
what people will say about you ?'

Yes,' replied Frank, but with a sudden
throb of pain, for he remembered that this
would touch Nessie. ' It is so hard — so
very hard to suffer alone ; the worst part
of life is that our troubles must also fall
upon others.'

The old lady was so affected by this
answer which sounded stiff enough —
though it was only the stiffness of intense
nervousness — that she burst into
tears.

Oh ! Frank,' she sobbed, ' if you won't

VOL. II. D

spare a mother this distress, at least spare
her daughter this shame

She implored ; she entreated ; she almost
went down on her knees to him. But,
keeping up his resolution by telling himself
it was for Nessie's sake, he stood firm.
It was a very painful scene, but there is
fortunately no need to linger over it. It
ended with a passionate fit, for the poor
mother was almost beside herself with
despair. She hurled the bitterest reproaches
upon Frank, and finally left,
declaring she would tell the whole town
about his shameful conduct. She actually
did relate her grievance to two or three
persons she met on her way home. But
her spirit soon ebbed, and then she dragged
herself wearily back to her daughter's
side.

In less than twenty-four hours, her
version of the affair had gone the round of

the town. Gossip, like water, will sometimes
ascend, but more often it filters
downwards. In this case, it reached a
clay bottom of fishermen with remarkable
speed, and set their tongues wagging and
heads shaking. It aggravated the feeling
against the Colquitts, and it struck hard
against Frank, who suffered therefrom
both in mind and pocket. He was
pointed at as the young man who had
married a dying woman for her money, and,
when she unexpectedly recovered, felt himself
injured and refused to have anything
to do with her. Ned stood up for him
boldly whenever he got the chance; but
what could he do against the whole
town, especially when dalrymple, keeping
carefully in the background, was directing
public opinion ?

Frank was in this awkward position.
He had, no matter whether unwillingly or

d2

not, carried off the prize for which all his
unmarried friends had been striving, each
with a certain confidence in his own ultimate
success : so they now turned against
him to a man. Though not undeserving
of pity, he got only their envy, and though
any sign of happiness would certainly
have been resented, his misery was used
as a taunt against him.

Nor was this all ; the old married men
were quite as bitter against him as the
young unmarried ones were. It was a
shocking thing altogether, they said ; it
was positively revolting that, after what
had taken place, he should hold aloof from
his poor suffering wife. So, under cover
of sympathy and with a new sense of
security, they began to flirt with Diana
more furiously than ever when she reappeared
among them.

As regards the weaker and usually more
outspoken sex, they were extraordinarily
reserved in their expressions of opinion.
There was prevalent among them an idea
that something had been withheld. This
was partly their superior shrewdness, no
doubt ; but it was also due to the fact that
Diana was a woman. Had they not described
her as * a horrid designing widow' ?
The greatest excitement prevailed as to
what she would do when she had thoroughly
recovered. There was not a house in
which this question was not eagerly discussed,
for they knew enough about her
to feel sure she would not remain quiet
under the circumstances. Not a few
thought that Frank would be led by the
ear to the home he had made for himself.
Indeed, such was the estimate of Diana s
power that there was not a single member

even of her own sex but considered her
certain to prove victorious in the coming-struggle.


Meanwhile Nessie, under Mona's advice,,
had returned the engagement ring. Cain
the Leg, who had been particularly instructed
to give it to Frank when he was alone,
had watched for him to enter his office and
given it to him there. Then he stumped
off as fast as he could, seeing something
in the young advocate's face which told
him he was better away.

Frank guessed what that neat little
parcel contained. He laid it on the table
before him and for a long time dared not
open it. There was not a word of writing
on it, but perhaps he should find something
inside. This thought gave his trembling
hands enough strength to open it ; and
then he saw the pearl-and-diamond ring
nestling snugly in its satin-lined case just

as it had done when he had looked at it on
the road home from Douglas. But oh,
how different everything was ! The token
of his happiness had now become the
token of his misery. Where should he
hide it ? He hastily thrust it into the
cellaret, as a heavy footstep sounded without,
followed by a knock at the door.

An old fisherman entered and requested
the advocate to issue a summons against
a certain woman for fourpence, the price offish
delivered. Frank called him a silly
old fool, and, as he refused to go, summarily
ejected him from the premises.

I'll have the law on thee, Master Frank,'
cried the truculent old fellow, angrily
shaking his fist at the door ; * I will, assure
as faith. I'll stand none of thy im-parent
capers ; mind that, now !' And so
he went shouting and gesticulating along
the quay.

Frank walked to the window to look
after him ; but suddenly started and
coloured, for he saw a quaint little poke-bonnet
bobbing across the drawbridge.
There could be no mistaking that dainty
figure ; it was Nessie, returning probably
from a visit to some of her humble friends
among the poor. Though she had always
given part of her time to charitable work,
she had lately devoted herself to it almost
exclusively; indeed, Mr. Hudson, looking
at her pale cheeks, had declared she was
making quite a martyr of herself.

On the impulse of the moment, Frank
snatched up his hat and ran after her.
How well she knew his footstep ! She
was trembling before he reached her side —
trembling she scarcely knew whether with
pleasure or pain. The hazel eyes were
raised for one fond piteous appealing glance,
and then fell and remained downcast. They

did not shake hands : perhaps did not dare.

Nessie,' he said.

^ Frank she murmured.

There was a wealth of feeling in those
two words. They spoke of the present, the
past, and the future ; they carried a small
measure of delight and a heavy burden of
pain.

I've just got it,* said Frank at last,
with a strange catch in his voice. ' But
oh, Nessie, how had you the heart to send
it back?'

^ Mona said it was only right.'

Yes said Frank, not without a tinge of
bitterness, ' Mona is a wise sister, and a
very kind one. If only she too had been
in love ! Nessie, how are we to meet ?'

We must try she answered, weeping
silently, ' to meet as friends.'

Friends !'

And, Frank — Frank — will it make it any

easier for you if I say I will never marry ?
For I never will ; no, never, never

But, my darling !' he burst out.
There, I can't help myself.'

She looked up with a sweet sad smile to
say : * Then I must be strong for the sake
of both.' But, as her failure with Ned
flashed into her mind, she added, with a
little gasp : * Leave me, Frank — now,
please.'

He seized her hand, held it for a moment,
and then fled swiftly away. He loved her
too much to probe her weakness. His own
he knew.

From sorrow to joy is but into one
neighbour's house — or, not infrequently,
into the next room of one's own. When
Frank reached home he found his uncle
radiant with delight, a client having turned
up at last. Major Christorey, said the
old man, had become embroiled in a fierce

dispute with the High Bailiff about a right
of way, and had put into his hands what
promised to be a remunerative case. Why
the major had deserted his regular advocate
did not appear. If this was merely a
kind device for benefiting an old friend,
Mr. Maddrell had evidently no suspicion of
it.

While gleefully talking about the great
splash he intended to make in the legal
pond, he suddenly stopped, his pale blue
eyes filled with anxiety. He laid a gentle
hand upon Frank's arm.

^My boy he said, ' have you just come
from seeing your wife ?'

No, uncle

Won't you take an old man's advice
and be reconciled to her ?'

Frank hung his head and remained
silent. It was one of his severest trials not
to be able to justify himself before his uncle.

Well, well, Frank,' said Mr. Maddrell
sadly, * you must go your own way. I can
only suppose you have carefully considered
the future when she and you can scarcely
help meeting almost every day of your
lives.'

So his mind, also, was concerned with
the question that was agitating the town :
What will Diana do when she is able to
get about again ?' But he did more than
think about it ; he set to work upon a side
issue which he felt might simplify the
main problem. And the very next day he
brought forward his solution.

CHAPTER III.

A FISH DINNER.

I BELIEVE,' said Mr. Maddrell, leaning back
in his bow-window-like cbairtogaze across
bis porridge at Frank, who sat at ibis
superior breakfast opposite, ' the officers
have been invited to every bouse in the
town except this. Don't you think we
should get up a little entertainment for
them r

Can we afford it ?' asked Frank, who
clearly did not jump at the idea. It maybe
remembered how hurt he felt when this
very same question was put to him by Mrs.
Colquitt ; but circumstances alter cases.

Of course, we couldn't afford anything
on a grand scale ; but, even if we have to
stint ourselves a little, we ought to manage
a small dinner.'

Do you wish it, uncle ?'

I don't think we ought to be more
backward in hospitality than our neighbours.
Yes, I wish it, if you don't object.'

Then I wish it too.'

That's all right,' said the old man, cheerfully.
He took up his spoon, traced a few
lines on his porridge, and then laid it down
again. 'Now,' added he, pretending to be
engrossed in arranging the white beard
which reached nearly to his waist, but
furtively watching his nephew, ' what do
you say to a fish dinner ? It is considered
a rare treat in England, I believe, and
Manxmen could turn out something good
in that way. Don't you think, Frank,

our quests would take it as a delicate
compliment ?'

*No doubt,' replied Frank, humouring
what he supposed to be a kindly whim.

It was more than that, however. Mr.
MaddrelPs object was to effect a saving of
expense, and yet set before his guests
something they would really like.

Then I'll ask you to leave the invitations
for me.'

After breakfast he retired as if to write
them ; but, as a matter of fact, they had
been prepared long before Frank came
downstairs to breakfast. The old man
had taken infinite pains with them. He
wrote, it may be said without much fear of
contradiction, the worst hand in the world
a thin tremulous scratching, such as a
staggering hen might make and no ordinary
intellect decipher. But when one came to

look into the addresses on these envelopes
and noticed how carefully each letter was
touched up and how elaborate were the
flourishes at the end of every word, it was
evident that he was not a little proud of
his performance. He must have an uncommonly
hard heart who could behold
such writing as this without being moved.
Frank could not, for it drew tears into his
eyes.

When he turned the envelopes over, he
observed that each was sealed with an
enormous coat-of-arms : a thing so unlike
his uncle that the explanation instantly
flashed into his mind. The dinner, he felt
sure, was meant to put him and Dalrymple
on better terms ; and the coat-of-arms, by
showing his family to be no mushroom
growth, was to create a favourable impression
beforehand. And such was the
fact. For Mr. Maddrell was shrewd

enough to see that Dalrymple Alas a thorn,
in Frank's side, and simple enough to
imagine it could be extracted as he proposed.
This idea of his about using a grand
seal, reserved for state occasions, could
only have originated with a kind-hearted
untravelled old man who knew nothing of
the world. It was laughable, and yet it
touched a deeper chord.

The invitations were duly accepted, and
for the next few days Mr. Maddrell led a
most active life. The energy that had
lain dormant in him so long, was now
pouring out in a steady powerful stream,
which quite astonished his friends. It also
made them anxious on his account ; when
they looked at his white hair, and the
wrinkles in his fine old face, they said he
was working himself into his grave. He
certainly did tire towards evening : and no
wonder, for all along he was upon his legs.

VOL. II. E

Not content with fishing in the Bay with
a view to the forthcoming* dinner, he and
Jonathan Vondy went off to set a long-line
at night. In the early morning they
returned — from some spot which they
laughingly refused to name — with a boat
loaded to the thwarts with confers, skate,
gurnards, cod, carp, halibut, turbot and
several other kinds. It was a strange
sight, the black skiff lying along-side the
quay in the cold grey light, the hobbles
looking down with amazement at the uneasy
cargo, some of the skate still grunting
and the confers wriggling wild-eyed and
open-mouthed, and the two old fellows
sitting up to their knees in the struggling
mass. Though Jonathan tried to look as
i it were quite an every-day affair, Mr.
Maddrell was chuckling with delight. In
his heart of hearts he certainly attributed
his good fortune to the fact that he had

never committed the sin of shaving off the
gift of Providence.

When he had sold the surplus fish and
paid Jonathan for his time, he found
that, instead of losing by his dinner, he
would actually make money by it : a thing
that does not often happen to a man,
whether his resources be at a low ebb or
not.

Nor did Mr. Maddrell's exertions end
here; he even carried them into the
kitchen. It was lucky he did, for he was
only just in time to detect the cook in the
act of slicing the turbot into hunks to
make it fit better in the pot, and shortly
afterwards he found the two servants
screaming from the top of the table, while
a contingent of rats marched upon a sole.
These and many other troubles the old
man bore with unfailing cheerfulness. He
would not hear of any assistance from

e2

UmERSlTY OF

Frank, but insisted upon doing everything
himself. Yet when his guests arrived
they were received by a genial host who
looked as fresh as if he had been reserving
his energies and good spirits for them.
In many respects the dinner proved a
complete success. The fish was highly
praised and the wines were pronounced
excellent ; they had never paid duty, having
been in the cellar since the good old
smuggling days, but their flavour was none
the worse on that account. Mr. Maddrell,
who had a wonderful store of anecdotes
poured them out without stint, and soon
succeeded in making his guests feel perfectly
at home. Captain Nugent and
Morrison were charmed with him, and even
Dalrymple could not but throw off some
of his insufferable languor when he saw
how anxious the old man was to please. He
showed that he could be a gentleman when

he chose. Not a single allusion escaped
him that Frank could possibly have taken
offence at ; for a wonder, he drew no
slighting comparison between Manx ways
and those he was accustomed to ; and, by
his deferential bearing towards Mr.
Maddrell, he made a sudden rise in Frank's
estimation.

All went well until the whisky arrived,
and with it Sammy Kneale, an advocate of
course, who explained that he had just
looked in casually without knowing anything
particular was going on ; and was
greeted with a roar of laughter. For this
reason : he possessed in a high degree the
old Manx ' faculty of discerning of spirits,'
which the Scotch divines attributed to
heritable magic,' for never was a cork
drawn in Castletown, but lo ! there stood
Sammy ready to help with the bottle.
Among his other possessions must be

reckoned a crooked nose and a reputation
for humour ; but the latter was based mainly
upon the former — an unsafe foundation ,,
as Sammy sometimes found.

He set to work at once, first with the
bottle and then with his tongue ; and,
having no other subject handy, began to
chaff Frank about being a married
man. But here the crooked nose stood
him in bad stead, for Frank was seized
with a violent desire to pull it and only restrained
himself with difficulty Hammering
away at the same subject, as these
empty-headed fellows do, without the
smallest notion of the feelings they are
stirring up, Sammy eventually tempted
Dalrymple to throw in a word every now
and again until the atmosphere smacked
strongly of brimstone, in spite of their
host's frantic endeavours to clear it. Struck
by the piteous expression in the old man's-face,

Nugent rose and said good-night.
The other two officers went with him, and
so, unfortunately, did the two advocates.

In the market-place they came to high
words. Sammy Kneale, having applied
the match, retired into the background as
soon as the fire he had kindled attained
dangerous proportions, but the pleasure
with which he viewed his handiwork was
somewhat marred by a fear lest he should
be singed himself before it was all over.
Though careful not to let his temper get
beyond his control, Frank expressed himself
with great freedom, and Dalrymple
retorted with the cool insolence which
always proved most exasperating. It was
the first time the two men had openly
shown their feelings towards one another,
and a more unfortunate time could not
have been selected.

^ I'm not surprised you should be angry,

said Dalrymple, sneering; * those in the
wrong always are. When a married man
persists in carrying on '

He stopped suddenly and drew back a
little, for at this insinuation against Nessie
Frank's fingers had closed on his palm like
the teeth of a rat-trap. But, before he
could make a movement, a hand was laid
on his shoulder, and, turning, he saw Ned
with a pained look in his great grey eyes.

Come along, Frank ! Hers not worth
quarrelling with,' said Ned.

And so the two friends walked off together,
arm-in-arm, with Toby behind,
while Dalrymple shot a glance of angry
scorn after them.

There was but little said until they
reached the side of the sea. It was a
moonlight night with a fresh breeze
blowing out of the cloud-capped hills. The
water flashed and sparkled to its very brim,

where a narrow line of white traced a
huge semicircle on the pebbles, rocks, and
sand.

Frank,' said Ned, earnestly, as they
approached Scarlettt, * shall I punch the
brute's head for you ? He's taller than I
am, but I could give him a couple of stone,
and in five minutes or so I think I could
make him fairly unrecognisable. Just say
the word, Frank, and this impudent fellow
shall measure his length on Manx soil.'

This may seem a singularly inconsistent
speech for Ned to make after his declaration
that Dairy male was not worth quarrelling
with. But, in his opinion, what should not
be attempted by the clever young advocate
whom Nessie loved, could be done by plain
old Ned Christorey, whose mission in life
was to minister in a humble way to her
happiness and therefore to Frank's. Few
could set a more lowly value upon themselves

than he did. Angry at the aspersion
cast upon Nessie, he was quite prepared ta
punish the wrong-doer with his own hands,
though it would be an undignified thing
for Frank, and he had therefore interfered
that Nessie might not be grieved. By
using the word ^ unrecognisable,' he gave
one another peep into that honest, dull
head of his. If he rendered Dalrymple
'unrecognisable,' he evidently thought he
would put an end to all love-making in
that quarter, and so relieve the tension of the
situation before Diana appeared to make it
unendurable. The Ned who had made this
comical proposal, was clearly the same ashe
who had knocked down a cattle-drover
to rescue an ill-treated dog.

Frank, of course, could not accept it.

'You are a brick, Ned,' he said, huskily.
A beautiful old Manx proverb says,
*' When one poor man helps another, God

Himself laughs;" were our ears but keen
enough, we should hear such laughter now.
But, old friend, I must fight my own
battles

Oh ! but it would be a satisfaction to
myself to give the fellow a sound thrashing.
"We don't want him here. He is
setting our little town by the ears ; he
turns up his nose at everything ; why, he
has even the impudence to ridicule me,
Ned Christorey, and the said Ned Christorey
would be delighted to kick him out of the
island. Neck and crop, Frank, what do
you say ?'

I quite understand you,' replied Frank;
'but remember what you just told me —
he's not worth it. Besides,' added he, with
a smile, * I am an advocate. No, no, Ned;
the days of prowess are gone never to return.
Now-a-days we have to grin and bear what
the law won't remove.'

In short, sunder the influence of the
moonlit sea, Frank was able to view the
matter more philosophically. Now that
another proposed to do what he had nearly
done himself, he saw its absurdity plainly
enough, for he could look at it from the
outside as well as from the inside. If only
we could do the same with our characters
generally, where would wisdom and virtue
stop ? If anyone would become a true
benefactor to his race let him devise some
method of correcting calculations made
in the one scale with calculations made in
the other. Had it existed in Frank's time,
he would scarcely have come to this conclusion
: that his animosity to Dalrymple
was due to a wish to protect Nessie against
a> man who would be a most undesirable
husband.

During the night the wind veered round
to the north, and in the morning lo !

Snaefell, and Bein-y-Phot, and Garraghan
were gleaming with snow, like huge shark's
teeth cutting into the blue overhead. A
frost had set in — an unusually severe frost
for the beginning of October.

When it had continued for a couple of
days, a party started to shoot snipe among
the Mull Hills, a wild rugged district in
the extreme south of the island, beyond
the little hamlet of Cregneish where lived
a community that had intermarried for
centuries, still dressed in the old Manx
style, and could scarcely speak a word of
English.

Dalrymple was one of the party, a fact
that Frank did not know when he also
promised to join. Frank was a good shot,
though apt to be wild ; Dalrymple a poor
one, though cool enough. There was no
lack of sport, but it is merely with one
incident that we are concerned.

Frank put up a bird which, as snipe
often do, would not go away, but kept
circling close around his head. Dalrymple
fired at it ; and Frank, naturally startled
as the charge whistled past his ears, dropped
his gun, which exploded, a few pellets
lodging in some part of the subaltern's
lanky body — his shoulder, he said. It was
a most trifling thing, which a few friendly
words should have set right. But
Dalrymple, who was solely to blame, received
Frank's apologies with absolute rudeness
; ^ this came,' he said, * of going out
shooting with a Manx clodhopper ;' and
after slinging his left arm in a handkerchiefs
seemed doubtful as to whether
the right would not look more effective —
he walked home by himself. Before
nightfall it was reported in Castletown
that he had been purposely fired at by
Frank !

So Mr. Maddrell's attempt to restore
peace proved even less successful than Mrs.
Sherwood's.

Towards the end of the month, Diana
took the ball in hand. She announced
her intention of giving a dinner to celebrate
her recovery, and invited her husband toit.
The invitation was worded thus :

Mrs. Maddrell requests the pleasure of
Mr. Frank Maddrell's company to dinner
on Halloween at six o'clock.'

Frank turned ghastly pale as he read it.
He saw that his troubles were about to
commence in earnest.

CHAPTER IV.

W ]\I A N ' S WILES

Frank had not the heart to ask any of the
Colquitts whether they were going to
Diana's dinner. He did, it is true, make
an attempt to see Georgie ; but, failing in
this, resolved to station himself near the
gate of Claddagh House. Detained by
some business in connection with Plague,
whose trial was close at hand, he was
rather late in getting there, and feared
lest they should have already gone without
his knowing it. When anyone came along
the road, he moved on, but soon returned

to this post, where lie watched and waited,
supremely miserable.

It was a superb night, with a slight
tendency to frost, and not enough wind to
rustle the trees in the garden. Floating
over the Skerranes was the crescent moon,
lighting up the sleeping bay which quivered
at her touch, and throwing the crags of
Langness into bold relief against the cloudless
sky, so that the long dark promontory
resembled the frame of a beautiful picture.
Overhead, ' the Great Road of King Orry,' *
as the Manx call the milky way — because
he said he had followed that route from
his northern home — was stretched from
east to west ; Orion was just appearing
above St. Michael's Isle ; the Great Bear
crouching upon Snaefell; and Aquila
spreading its brilliant wings over Croaking

Orry presumably sailed in spring, when the
millcy way lies N. by S.

VOL. II. F

ny-Irey-Lhaa. When the eye turned
from the sky to the sea and the land, they
appeared to have been blended together,
so softly ran the tide of moonlight overall,
here breaking into a sparkling ripple
and there pouring around some black fantastic
shadow, a solitary rock grimly defying
an ocean.

It was a lovely scene ; but, as sometimes
happens to us all, Frank was sadly out
of harmony with it. He was in suspense,
the one mental condition that Nature
finds most difficult to soften. Had Nessie
gone to Diana's, or had she not ? It was
dreadful to think of what might be going
on there ; for her sake, for his own sake,
he fervently hoped she had remained at
home. He watched the gate eagerly, and
after a time opened it and peeped in.

As he did so, something flew swiftly by ;
he looked after it and beheld a bat, flitting

away in sharp curves and vanishing behind
the house. There was a scared look in
Frank's face as he drew back and leaned
against the wall, for he remembered the
legend of Tehi-tegi. With but a slight
variation, it seemed to have been so
strangely acted over again in his own
case.

And where were the Colquitts all this
time ? Frank might have known that
Nessie, at any rate, would not accept his
wife's invitation. As a matter of fact, none
of them had done so. They were gathered
round the fire, all engaged in an occupation
peculiar to the season.

Halloween, as you are doubtless aware, is
the one evening upon which the future can
be readily robbed of its secrets. It is wonderful
how easy it then is to walk off With
these unlaid eggs. There is no need to
summon a benaaishnee : you can do it

1-2

yourself with the aid of a couple of nuts.
It is more difficult, however, to explain
why this should be so. Probably the explanation
must be sought in the remotest
ages, Hallows having been a great
Druidic festival. It was then that the
sacred fire was consecrated for distribution
among the people ; in which connection it
may be remarked that until comparatively
recent times the Manx peasantry were
very careful to keep their peat fires alight
from year's end to year's end, lest some
evil should befall them. This remarkable
vitality of old traditions has been already
illustrated in two or three ways, and we
shall see more of it as we go along.

'Now, Mr. C.,' said Mrs. Colquitt, looking
severely at her wizened husband, who
was screwed against the wall, with his toes
on the fender and his knees up to his chin,

on the opposite side of the fireplace, ^ where
is your nut?'

She pointed to a bag on the mantelshelf.
He declined to take any share in
such childish proceedings, so she selected a
curiously-deformed nut and held it up to
general derision.

This,' said she, turning to her daughters,
'is your idle father who has brought
you to pauperism. Let us see what will
become of him.'

So she placed Mr. Colquitt upon the
hob. He promptly rolled into the fire and
was soon burnt to a cinder.

No wife in store for you, father,' laughed
Mona.

By that same token, I should say there
is,' he replied, audaciously, the reins being
a little relaxed this evening.

Oh, you wicked old man !' exclaimed

Mrs. Colquitt, pointing at him. ' As soon
as lie has laid me in the grave, I believe
hell be thinking of marrying again if he
can get anyone who likes toads and such
vermin.'

Mother dear !' interrupted Mona, warningly.


Mrs. Colquitt looked with surprise at
her daughter, frigidly at her husband, and
seemed inclined to continue the subject;
but, feeling Nessie's arm steal round her
waist, she picked up the bag and began to
allot the nuts. On the centre of the hob
she placed one for herself as a sort of
chaperon, a regular Dutch-built old stager,
carefully chosen for its unlikelihood to be
frisky. The rest of the nuts represented
her two daughters and the young, unmarried
men in the town. Ned's art-criticism
having opened her eyes, she had put him
on one side of Nessie, and Fabian Dalrymple,

actually touching, on the other.

But the oracle, no doubt irritated at
this flagrant attempt to bias its decision,
resolutely refused to speak; much to
Nessie's relief, for it was only in obedience
to her mother's wish that she had allowed
herself to be represented. A more stubborn
set of nuts could hardly be brought
together. They remained there stolidly
roasting, quite indifferent to the responsibilities
of their position. Mona suggested
that the depressing influence of the chaperon
was too much for them ; and, as they
ignored even the tongs, nothing remained
but to eat them.

However, Mrs. Colquitt had planned
another way of arriving at the desired
result. If her daughters were not
to be told the names of their future
husbands, they should at least have a
chance of seeing them at midnight. So,

later in the evening, Sheval entered with
the necessary ingredients for a soddag
walloon or dumb cake. The matron took no
share in this performance, leaving it to
her daughters and servants, who, as in the
days of Jeremiah, began ' to knead dough
to make cakes to the Queen of Heaven.'

While thus engaged, and for the rest of
the day, they were not allowed to utter a
single word, for which reason Mr. Colquitt
thought, but did not venture to say, he
would like his wife to make him a soddag
halloo for breakfast every morning. They
also had to do all their walking backwards,
as if in the royal presence.

The cake was baked in the embers of
the kitchen fire, equally divided, and eaten
in the dark. Then all waited silently for
the striking of the clock ; for, before the
last stroke of midnight died away, the
future husbands ought to appear. Apart

from any superstitious influence, there were
many elements present for working upon
the imagination and nerves of an impressionable
girl : the gloom, the stillness —
only intensified by the occasional chirp of
a cricket — the delirious scamper of black-beetles
over the flags, the absorbing task
of listening to the solemn tick-took of the
old Dutch clock, and the wild excitement
as it went into a fit in its struggle for
breath to announce the hour. Add to
these the possibility of an apparition — a
vague wonder whether, after all, there
might not be something in what her
mother believed so firmly, and you will
not be surprised that Nessie clung tremblingly
to her stronger sister.

When the clock struck she could scarcely
help screaming, and the more she resisted
the inclination the more powerful it
became. But of a sudden her heart gave

a great throb, and then seemed to stop.
Mona gave her a startled pressure on the
one side and Sheval did the same on the
other ; and, huddled together in a corner
the three stared white-faced at the door,
which was slightly ajar.

From the flight of stone steps leading
down to it, there came the sound of a
footstep, slow, distinct, painfully audible
in the midst of an oppressive silence.
Pat — pat — pat ! It was a sort of muffled
sound, such as a ghost might make in
walking. Nearer it came : nearer : still
nearer, until it seemed to be in the
kitchen.

By this time Mona and Sheval were
trembling nearly as much as Nessie, and
not one of them could withdraw her terror-filled
eyes from the door. It opened slowly
and cautiously, to show the honest
black face of Fido, the Newfoundland

watch-dog, who was usually turned loose
in the house at night ! His entrance was
greeted with a burst of laughter which
sounded a little hysterical. To tell the
truth, Mona, though she always strenuously
denied it, was as near fainting as Nessie.

But for this untoward incident, it might
have been possible to throw a stronger
light upon the turn events were going to
take. It gave Nessie such a shock that,
when she went to bed, she did not even
dream about a lover. She had a series of
dreadful nightmares in which some fierce
black monster was always threatening
her.

In her mother's opinion, a greater calamity
could scarcely have happened. Her
affection for her daughter was urging her
in the same direction as Mr. Maddrell's
affection for his nephew was urging Mm
the one in his peculiar way, and the other

in hers. She was most anxious to divert
Nessie's thoughts from Frank ; and while
his uncle, who had a similar end in view,
was thwarted by an empty-headed wag,
her failure was due first to some stubborn
nuts, and then to a stupid dog.

As Diana's dinner-party had precisely
the same object, it will not be out of place
to glance at it here.

It was, everybody said, a very grand
entertainment. The married men went in
troops, carrying their wives with them.
The unmarried men were scarcely less
eager to pay their court to the beautiful
woman who had been snatched out of
their grasp and then cruelly deserted by
her husband. Diana, magnificently dressed,
more lovely than ever after her illness,
received them as a queen receives her
subjects. Graceful she could not help
being; charming, she always was. Marriage

had not, as is sometimes the case,
hardened her voice or soured her smile ;
she was still the same queenly, enchanting
woman they had always known. This the
men unanimously admitted as they crowded
round her in the drawing-room, though,
to be quite frank, their wives and daughters
found several new faults in her and
even pulled her dress to pieces.

It was noticed that each time the door
opened she glanced anxiously towards it :
no doubt, said the men, to see if her worthless
husband was coming ; no doubt, said
the women, in the hope that she was going
to have a chance of toasting poor Frank.
In any case, as each fresh arrival entered,
her first look was one of disappointment.

But at dinner her spirits were even
higher than usual, and this was the beginning
of a change that became still more
perceptible afterwards. Her face grew

harder ; a look of defiance came into those
brilliant dark eyes of hers ; and there was
a strange recklessness in her manner, not
steady by any means, but flashing out fitfully
and dying down again, and gaining
strength as the evening proceeded. Even
when a Member of Parliament knows
that his speech will be fully reported in
the morning papers, it makes a considerable
difference to him whether he is
addressing full or empty benches ; and
Diana spoke and acted for the benefit of a
single person, Frank, who was absent.
This, together with her natural disposition,
will explain the difficulty she experienced
in keeping herself strung up to the same
pitch all the evening. Still, she succeeded
in putting long faces on all the members
of her own sex. The young ladies exchanged
meaning glances; the old ones,
who were no less hurt at the desertion of

their cavaliers, whispered ' Champagne ' —
not such a very gross piece of scandal in
days when hospitality and drinking were
nearly synonymous. There was a very
general impression that the truthful juice
of the grape was bringing the real Diana
into full view at last.

However, champagne would scarcely account
for a desire to reduce the number
of her admirers. She sent Sammy Kneale
and his crooked nose to amuse the discontented
ones sitting moodily around in silks
and satins, and most of the others she
detached for the same duty. She retained
by her side only two, Dalrymple and Morrison,
with whom she flirted most outrageously.
The youthful ensign considered
her preference a well-deserved tribute to
his own powers of fascination; but the
subaltern, who was more behind the scenes
knew better, yet entered into her plans

with equal zest. She lead selected them
because they were not Frank's fellow-townsmen
; he would, therefore, be spared
an unnecessary pang, and they would not
be restrained by any scruples on that score,
but would go just as far as she wanted
them, so strangely did she mingle the
womanly arts of persuasion — slapping and
kissing. There was clearly trouble ahead
for Frank, trouble for Diana, trouble for
Nessie, and trouble for Ned. A fine load
of ballast altogether, quite enough to carry
many a good ship to the bottom.

Diana's purpose suited Dalrymple admirably;
it operated against any lingering
attachment between Frank and Nessie,
and gave him a very palatable revenge.
His resentment against Frank having been
increased tenfold by the unfortunate affair
after Mr. Maddrell's dinner and the subsequent
accident, he made love to Frank's

wife in the most unblushing way. Her
conduct, said the ladies, was simply
abominable ; in future they would certainly
hold aloof from her were it not for a
charitable hope that their presence might
act as a restraining influence for her
good. And yet, with singular inconsistency,
they shook their pretty fingers at
her accomplice and laughingly called
him ' a naughty man,' which he received
as a compliment, as was apparently intended.


Next morning some good old motherly
souls with the best intentions in the worlds
meeting Frank in the market-place, gave
him a full account of what had happened.
Diana was watching with pain and intense
longing from behind the curtains, Dalrymple
with very different feelings from one of
the barrack windows, and the red cap of a
prisoner peeped through an embrasure in

VOL. II. G

the Castle wall. The three were the only
spectators of the group.

Nothing, it is said, will induce madness
quicker than the dripping of water on the
forehead, yet such torture could be scarcely
more severe than that now inflicted
upon Frank. No details were spared him ;
some were a little touched up — for his own
good, of course ; he had to hear everything
from beginning to end. All this, however,
he could endure silently ; the worst part
came when they began to offer advice,
often very conflicting, and to ply him with
questions. What was he going to do?
Why did he not live with Diana ? No
doubt she would hardly make a desirable
wife, but was it not his duty to endeavour
to lead her into the right path ? In short,
they unconsciously ranged themselves on
the side of her whom they condemned,

and fought her battles, as she knew they
would.

Leaving them in a frantic state of
curiosity, which was increased by his unsatisfactory
answers, Frank at length tore
himself from their clutches and rushed
back to his office, where he tried to think
his way out of his difficulties. Diana was
undoubtedly his wife ; she bore his name
and therefore must be restrained from
bringing disgrace upon it. But how ?
By an assertion of the power which the
marriage service gave to him as her husband
? Never ! By his love for Nessie ?
Never ! By an appeal to Diana herself ?
His own self-respect would not allow of
that. What, then, was to be done ? Frank
could see nothing for it but to wait, in the
hope that the same thing would not be
repeated. How little he knew Diana !

g2

Though the distress occasioned by the
bank failure had in some measure been
relieved, there was still plenty of work for
those who chose to do it. Mr. Hudson
was more than once observed carrying on
his own shoulders a pile of blankets for
distribution among the poor, and in ibis
labours of love he was ably supported.
But a reaction had set in ; charity was felt
insufficient to dissipate the prevailing air
of gloom, and so there arose by the side of
it a craving for excitement, which Diana's
dinner-party turned into a definite channel.
A great number of entertainments
followed, and at all of them she behaved
in the same way as at her own. Indeed,
her conduct grew far more pronounced as
time passed by, though without bringing
the result she desired ; wherever she went,
she was almost invariably attended by
Dalrymple and Morrison. The smiling

audacity with wlaicli she defied public
opinion amazed and perplexed the whole
town, unaccustomed as people where to
anything of the sort. Some of her former
admirers began to fall away from her, but
chiefly because they did not like being left
in the cold. Frank, well-nigh desperate,
was very careful to keep out of her way.
But one evening, just before Plague's
trial, they met, and a strange meeting it
was.

There was a dance that night, and though
it was scarcely dark, the guests had begun
to assemble, early hours being the rule in
those days. Frank had been invited, but
as usual had declined. Having a letter to
post, he was hurrying along the side of the
glacis when he was suddenly arrested by a
remarkable sight — a wheel-barrow decked
with ribbons, propelled by two men, and
containing a woman. Stricken with a

horrible fear and trembling in every limbs
he looked, rubbed his eyes, and looked
again. There could be no mistake, however
; the two men were Dalrymple and
Morrison in dress clothes, and the woman
was Diana, arrayed in white satin shoes
and a superb ball-dress, which was only
partly hidden by a shawl wrapped loosely
around her ! They were talking and laughing
gaily, ignorant of the presence of the
stunned man who was gazing at them.

And now there came along in the opposite
direction another wheel-barrow, which
made Frank wonder still more if he were
not having a frightful dream, for it also
contained a woman, but was propelled only
by one man. As it approached, he perceived
the man to be Bobby Beg and the
woman Black Deborah. Mr. Colquitt,
sceptical about the Millennium, had ejected
her from her cottage ; so, nth Bobby Beg's

assistance, she was removing her effects, and,
tired with her exertions, was taking a seaton
the last load, which consisted merely of
a few odds and ends.

Any other spectator than Frank would
have heartily enjoyed the change that came
over Diana and her escort as they drew
near the other wheel-barrow, containing
the mad woman and pushed by the idiot.
They scarcely knew whether to laugh orbe
angry. Mingled with their vexation,
there was a certain air of perplexity, as if
they rather fancied that some elaborate
joke had been played upon them. Perhaps
for the first time in her life Diana looked
thoroughly embarrassed. She vv^as unable
to do anything but stare at the mad
prophetess, who was not unlike her in
figure and features, especially in the dark
hair and eyes. Both were tall, but Black
Deborah was much the taller.

As the two wheel-barrows passed one
another, her scorn of this foolish woman in
her finery, with the officers in dress clothes,
was magnificent. She drew her black
mantle around her with a haughty gesture,
and her eyes blazed like living coals ; to
the complete extinction of Bobby Beg,
marching behind in his brimless top-hat
and three coats, though he was not a very
ordinary object either. Diana instinctively
raised her hand to her face as if to shield
it from this glare of light, and turned away
her head. In doing so, she beheld Frank,
who started into life and vanished in the
darkness.

That his wife — he was getting more
accustomed to the term now — should behave
like a merry-andrew in the face of
the whole town, was an appalling thought.
Nothing affected Frank more than ridicule.
And now every fool in the place would be

jeering at him, while the rest would be
showering upon him pity and advice, which
would be almost as bad. Nevertheless, he
whispered to himself, ' For Nessie's sake,'
and stood his ground. If, he said, there
had been no deception practised by Diana
during her illness, he would have manfully
accepted the situation ; but, as it was, he
was determined to hold out against her.
Unable to see his way to any definite step,
he buoyed himself up with the hope that
the timely meeting with Black Deborah
would bring Diana to her senses.

The next day being the one preceding
Plague's trial, he and his uncle were very
busy. In the afternoon he received a
visit from Ruth Teare, Who had an important
communication to make. Poor girl,
she looked done to death. What with
suspense and incessant waiting upon Mrs.
Plague, whose end was rapidly approaching,

she was wasted to a shadow of her former
self

When she had gone, Sammy Kneale
entered the office with a startling piece of
news. Diana had announced her intention
of attending the trial, a thing no Manx
lady would ever dream of doing. As her
husband was engaged in the case, she said
she ought to be there to encourage him.
If she carried out her intention, Frank
knew that the general public would be
even more shocked than at anything she
had yet done. But how was he to prevent
her? He went to bed that night in the
most painful agitation, feeling that the
morrow had fresh horrors, and probably a
break-down in Court, in store for him.

CHAPTER V.

plague's trial.

Tuesday, the eleventh of November, was
a day of painful excitement in Castletown.
At an early hour the town was thronged
with people, chiefly of the farmer and
fishermen class, but with a very fair
sprinkling of advocates. They clustered
round the doors of the inns, collected in
groups in the market-place, and blocked up
j:he narrow streets. Those who knew the
miserable man now awaiting his trial wore
an air of deep depression, for what could
a young fellow like Frank or an old manlike

Mr. Maddrell do against the Attorney-general?
Some were strangers drawn to
the scene by curiosity, a trial for murder
being a most uncommon occurrence ; and
others were jurors who had been summoned
from all parts of the island to attend
the Court of General Gaol Delivery. This
last class numbered sixty-eight altogether,
four from each of the seventeen parishes.
Long before ten o'clock arrived there was
a general move towards the Castle, and the
Court-house was soon crowded to excess.

Situated, as already mentioned, at the
top of a flight of narrow stone steps on the
right-hand side of the outer keep, it once
formed part of the suite inhabited by the
Lords of Man, and afterwards by the
Lieutenant-Governors. It is a lofty, square
room, with a large window in the roof, two
doors on one side for the use of the jury
and the advocates respectively, and another

door for the general public opposite. The
Bench resembles an immense four-poster ;
the royal arms are emblazoned on the
front of the wooden canopy overhead ; and
there is a door at the back for the use of
the judges. Immediately in front is a
table around which sit the advocates, wearing
gowns and bands, but not wigs. Then
comes a rectangle of long, straight seats
divided into two rows by a central partition,
the first of these seats on the right of
the judges being the dock, and the corresponding
one on the opposite side the .
And, lastly, there is an empty
space where the main body of the public
stood, overflowing into the passages on
either hand. The jury-box occupied the
corner on the left of the Bench and faced
it ; in the opposite corner stood Major
Christorey, Ned, the High Bailiff, Fabian
Dalrymple, Dr. Mylworry, and many others.

The Castle clock had scarcely finished
striking when there was a bustle at the
public door, and a general turning of heads.
The crowd fell back ; a constable cleared
the passage ; and along the lane thus
formed came a melancholy procession — a
turnkey, two stupefied prisoners, another
turnkey, and lastly the governor of the
gaol. They entered the dock in the same
order, and sat down side by side.

The first prisoner was a sheep-stealer,
sure to get off, and therefore uninteresting
to most. But, as a type of humanity, he
was worth looking at. He had a small,
bullet-head ; a very low, flat forehead sloping
back from bushy brows which met on
the bridge of a shapeless nose ; little, cunning
eyes, restlessly wandering to and fro
like a caged animal's, yet otherwise absolutely
devoid of intelligence ; a long, overhanging
lip, with a growth of stubbly hair ;

a squat, clumsy body, bent forward as if it
did not contain enough vitality to support
its own weight ; and square hands, with
knobby fingers, in incessant motion. This
man, who could scarcely speak a word of
English, was the descendant of half-a-dozen
families who had intermarried for numberless
generations. He had managed his
own affairs shrcAvdly enough, the sheep-stealing
excepted, so that he was neither
a lunatic nor an idiot ; and yet it was
difficult to look at him and feel that he
belonged to the same race as your own.

But it was at Plague that everybody
looked, compassionately and anxiously, in
spite of an irresistible feeling of aversion,
for he was their fellow-townsman, lately a
rising man who showed every promise of
rising still higher. Yet here he was in the
dock, a hollow-checked, sunken-eyed, haggard
prisoner accused of murder! They

could not help pitying him, indignant as
they felt at the reproach he had brought
upon them ; they earnestly hoped for his
acquittal ; and those behind were ever
leaning forward to get a peep at his face.
But he never once turned his head; he
sat like a statue all the time. There was
a knot in the wood-work of the dock immediately
opposite him, and by some
mechanical rather than intellectual process
it had caught his eyes and ri wetted them.
Only once did they stir from it until the
verdict was pronounced.

A minute or so after the prisoners had
taken their places in the dock, the judges
entered. The Lieutenant-governor, as
President of the Court, took the Chair of
State in the centre ; on either hand sat the
two Deemsters, the Clerk of the Rolls, the
Water Bailiff, the Bishop, and the Archdeacon.
The two last and the Lieutenant-governor

wore neither gowns nor wigs ;
the rest wore both.

The jury having been sworn, and the
Coroner having made the usual proclamation
about silence, the sheep-stealer's case
was called for trial.

It occupied a very short time, for there
was practically no defence. He had been
all but caught in the act, and part of the
sheep was found buried in his garden, and
the rest roasting in front of his fire for
dinner. Yet the jury unanimously acquitted
him, refusing to take the responsibility
of carrying into effect a barbarous
law. And so he slunk out of the Court
and out of the Castle, from the wall of
which, just beneath the clock, he had
narrowly escaped hanging in the sight of
the whole town.

A new jury having been channelled,
Mr. Maddrell rose to do a little weeding.

VOL. II. H

With his fine features, his white hair, and
his pale-blue eyes lighted up with a proud
sense of his own importance, he looked a
wonderfully handsome old man in his
gown and bands, the edges of which he
had drawn out on each side so that they
might not be completely hidden by his
long beard. He had been overwhelmed
with congratulations on his return to the
Bar ; several of the judges had leaned forward
to shake hands with him ; the
Attorney-general had paid him a neat
compliment with regard to the danger of
crossing swords with such a veteran ; so he
was in his best mood.

The defence having the right to challenge
twenty jurors, he thought it better
to exercise it, not necessarily to the full
extent, but just enough to show that he
knew what he was about. With Frank's
concurrence, he challenged ten altogether ;

and as the foreman of the jury eventually
selected happened to be the tenant of a
small farm Which he had owned until the
bank failure deprived him of it, he felt he
had done very well. His man being an
authority on parochial matters, and in the
habit of getting his own way, the advocates
on both sides addressed themselves
particularly to him ; with his decision,
they were pretty confident the verdict
would rest.

All this time Frank was sitting, in a
most unenviable frame of mind, at the
table. True, Diana had not appeared ; but
then a woman is always unpunctual, and
she might come at any moment. It maybe
said here, however, that she had
changed her mind. When told that if she
carried out her intention, she would
assuredly estrange all her friends, she
yielded ; for, little as she showed it, never

h2

did a woman stand in greater need of
sympathy that Diana did now. But unaware
of the change, Frank kept an anxious
watch upon the door, every movement
there being answered by his own nerves.
It was an immense relief when the case
began, and he had to concentrate his
attention upon it.

There had been some slight whispering
and noise in the court ; but with the rising
of the Attorney-general, every sound was
stilled, every face fixed. He was a little
spare grey-headed man with aquiline
features, a clear incisive voice, and a subdued
manner. Like the other advocates ^
he wore no wig, only a gown and bands ;
and being, like them too, both barrister
and solicitor, he was unassisted. He stated
his case clearly, concisely, and without
any attempt at rhetoric ; his manner never
once varied from a judicial calmness, which

almost repelled sympathy; but he pieced
his fragmentary evidence nth a skill that
only experience can give. As he made
each telling point, a shadow swept across
that sea of rigid faces behind like a squall
sweeping across their own bay. For the
moment they absolutely hated this cold
clear-headed man for the torture he was
inflicting upon them.

The Attorney General divided his case
into three parts. 1. That the prisoner had
raised the drawbridge : 2. That he had
done it with the intention of causing
Macdonald's death : 3. That matters had
fallen out exactly as he had intended.

1. The drawbridge must have been raised
nth malicious intention. It could not
have been done as a practical joke, inasmuch
as, if it had any result at all, it could
only have been the fall of somebody into
the harbour and his almost certain death.

Moreover, unless there was some entertainment
going on, which was not the case
that night, it was the practice for everybody
in the town to be in bed by half-past
ten at the latest. Nobody was ever seen
out of doors after that time except
Macdonald and the prisoner. But the
drawbridge was not raised until half-past
eleven, or even later. It could therefore
have been done only for one or the other :
as he contended, by one for the other. It
might be suggested that Macdonald himself
had done it, With the intention of committing
suicide and yet giving his act a
different colour. This was quite impossible.
Though the chains for raising the bridge
were suspended from long heavy beams
projecting at either end so as to give
additional leverage by their length and
weight, the task was most difficult for a
single man. Macdonald could not have

managed it ; he had not sufficient strength.
The prisoner had, though he looked weak
enough now.

The Attorney General pursued his
process of elimination — in the absence of
direct evidence, the only one open to him
somewhat further, and then turned to
No. 2, which he had partly argued already.
For if malicious intention had led someone,
now presumably Plague, to raise the
bridge, what could be his object if not
Macdonald's death? Starting for their
walk that night shortly after ten, they
went, he said, along the Douglas Road as
far as Ballasalla, then turned down the
Maleww Road, and afterwards branched off
across the fields, where they were seen last.
Apparently their intention was to strike
the Arboryy Road and return through the
town. Such a walk would occupy about an
hour-and-a-half, so that they would arrive

at the drawbridge between half-past eleven
and twelve, the time when it was tampered
with. And here the Attorney-general
offered two theories. Either the prisoner
had gone ahead of the man whom he
usually followed, had crossed the bridge,
and drawn up the half nearest him ; orin
order not to arouse his victim's suspicions,
had left him in the town, slipped
across the stone-bridge, and so gained the
same spot. This latter theory he thought
the more probable ; for the sentry at the
guard-room would have been likely to
notice two persons passing close together,
but not so likely on a dark night to
notice only one. But, even if neither
theory was entirely correct, it was of small
importance. The drawbridge was raised
so that anybody attempting to cross it from
the town side must fall into the harbour,
and the prisoner alone knew that such an

attempt would be made that night : made,
too, by a man to whom he had shown a
most determined spite. What was the
object of it all ? The very thing it eventually
accomplished — Macdonald's death. It
was a carefully devised plan for revenge ;
for the man who was always behind, would
never be looked for in front. This, said
the Attorney-general, was the key to the
whole thing.

With regard to his last point — whether
the prisoner had succeeded in his design —
he proved that Macdonald was thoroughly
acquainted with the harbour ; that his
walk would not have taken him near any
unprotected spot on the quay ; and finally,
by the aid of the harbour-master, Jonathan
Vondy, and several others, that there was a
strong tide flowing at the time and that,
therefore, a person falling over the end of
the bridge would have been carried, not out

to sea, but into the harbour, where the body
was actually found. Some experiments
were cited in support of this evidence.
An object had been constructed having as
nearly as possible the same shape, size, and
specific gravity as the body ; it had been
dropped from the bridge when the tide
was at the same height as on the night
in question ; and in nearly every instance
it had drifted to the same spot. This had
never once happened in another series of
experiments, when it had been dropped
from different parts of the quay at different
times of the tide. The fact that the
prisoner, always sticking close to Macdonald's
heels, must have witnessed the disaster,
yet raised no alarm, was the most
damning evidence against him.

A score of witnesses were called on behalf
of the Crown. Jonathan Vondy
deposed that the prisoner had raised the

bridge several times by himself; but,
beyond that, there seems no need to go
more particularly into the evidence, much
of which has been related already. It is
highly probable that many points which
the Attorney-general considered material
have been omitted from this brief report ;
if so, let the blame fall upon the right
person — the reporter. One thing is quite
certain : that, when the court adjourned at
the close of the case for the prosecution,
the outside public regarded Plague as a
doomed man. Ashe was taken out by his
escort, they looked at him as one looks at
the face of the dead.

I^or was this feeling confined to them.
It prevailed also among those who knew
something about the law. That evening
a singularly gentle kind-hearted man of
the name of Carmichael, a retired
merchant-captain, who had lately been

appointed a magistrate, went tremblingly
to the High Bailiff's, where he found
Major Christorey and a number of magistrates
discussing the trial. So certain
were they of Plague's impending fate that,
as one of them would have to undertake
the horrible duty of attending at the
execution, they determined to end their
suspense by drawing lots at once. There
were some pipe-lights on the mantel-shelf;
and these the High Bailiff took, divided
into different lengths, and offered to each
in turn to draw according to seniority.
The lot fell upon Captain Carmichael, who,
stout old sailor as he was, felt so affected
that he actually shed tears. It was, he told
them, the very thing he had been dreading ;
and, as he thought of the ghastly prospect
before him, he very nearly fainted. Major
Christorey, whose manner always stiffened
the more his deeper feelings were touched,

took pity upon the old man, and earned
his undying gratitude by promising, if
necessary, to officiate in his stead.

When the Court reassembled on the
following morning, there was the same row
of grave faces on the Bench ; the same
shadow swept sea of rigid faces below ; the
same boxful of stolid jurymen ; the same
haggard prisoner, staring fixedly at the
same knot in the woodwork of the dock ;
and the same profound silence broken only
by the voice of one or other of the performers
in this melancholy drama. The
time was changed, but not the scene. It
was as if the light behind the painted slide
of a magic lantern had been turned down
for the night, and turned up again in the
morning to reveal the same picture. The
interest had deepened, but that was the
only difference, so far as the general effect
was concerned.

Frank, however, felt very much easier in
his mind, for he had been told of the
change in Diana's plans. As he rose to
call his first witness, he showed that he
fully realised the importance of his position.
He appeared cheerful and even confident,
while his uncle, stroking his beard at the
advocate's table, had a slv look lurking; in
the corners of his eyes.

Passing by a number of minor witnesses,
we come to Quilliam the blacksmith. The
prisoner, he said, looked ' stunned like '
Ashen he saw the body being carried into
the house. After that, he went away and
sat down on the plough, just like a man
who felt there was nothing left for him todo.
Witness felt sure the prisoner had
been in the smithy all night.

Ruth Teare was then called. She came
from the body of the Court, and when she
had entered the witness-box, her hand

trembled so that she could scarcely raise
the Bible to her lips. While under examination,
she clung firmly to the rail as
if to keep herself from falling. She was
dressed in deep mourning, which made
her face look absolutely bloodless. Mrs.
Plague, it appeared, had died during the
night.

At half-past eleven on the night of the
alleged murder, she deposed she met the
prisoner in Arboryy Street His mother
had asked her to look for him and bring
him home; and, soon after leaving the
house, she met him walking in the direction
of the market-place. There was
some one just in front whom she took to be
Mr. Macdonald. As the prisoner would
not come with her she walked by his side
through the town, across the stone bridge
and so to the smithy, where she remained
with him until past twelve. She knew the

time as lie heard the Castle clock strike.
He was still in the smithy when she left.
He did not go home that night.

^I believe said the Attorney-general,
after vainly trying to shake this evidence,
you were engaged to the prisoner ?'

'Yes.'

With a significant look at the potential
foreman he sat down. Hearts which had
been gradually rising, suddenly sank again,
for the effect of this answer upon the jury
was unmistakable. But Mr. Maddrell
now came to the front like an old warhorse
snorting for the battle.

At the present moment, Miss Teare,' he
said, ' you are not engaged to the
prisoner?'

No,' she replied, very faintly.

For the first and only time during the
trial, Plague's eyes left the knot in front
of him. They cast a startled glance at the

hand with which Ruth clutched the rail,
and when he saw that her engagement-ring
was gone, he sank back and groaned
aloud. That groan found an echo in many
a heart — in Frank's, for one. Besides his
sympathy for the discarded lover, he experienced
a sharp pang on his own account,
for he was struck with the painful resemblance
between the two cases, differing
chiefly in this : that he had set his heart
upon a woman, and Plague upon money,
though with a woman in the second place.

Was your engagement,' continued Mr.
Maddrell, ' broken off in consequence of
this unfortunate affair?'

It was.'

In the event of the prisoner's acquittal,
is there any chance of its being renewed?'

No,' was the almost inaudible response,
after a long hesitation.

By this womanly device, planned by

VOL. II. I

herself, Ruth sacrificed her own chances of
happiness in order to save her lover. As
she had anticipated, her motive was generally
misconstrued ; and, while she had
strengthened her evidence, she had also
aroused a deep feeling of pity for the
prisoner, as the faces of the jury showed.
When she left the box, the people shrank
from her as from a source of contagion ;
they formed a lane through which she
tottered to a bench at the back of the
Court.

The last witness disposed of, Frank rose
to marshall his facts. Nervous at first, he
soon warmed to his work, and spoke welland
fluently. His audience, though unfavourable
to him, were favourable to his
cause, and for a time struggled between
the two contending forces, but were at
last compelled to let their sympathies go
wholly with him. This young man, they

reluctantly confessed, had a most provisions:
future before him. He offered no
theory about the bridge or the cause of
Macdonald's death ; that, he said, was not
for him to do; his duty was merely to
show that his client was unconnected with
either the one or the other. This he
maintained he had done by the aid of
Ruth Teare and Quilliam, two independent
witnesses, who corroborated one another
:and proved the prisoner's innocence.

Mr. Maddrell followed on the same side,
mixing a few very shrewd remarks with a
mass of commonplace. In fact, his speech
strongly resembled a workhouse plum-pudding.
However, he was so pleased
with it himself that he could not fail to
please others, Castletown being very proud
of this fine old man who, undaunted by
his misfortunes, had boldly stepped into
the arena again.

i2

The Attorney-general having replied,
the Southern Deemster summed up very
briefly, for he said the case lay in a nutshell
: Did they or did they not believe the
evidence of Ruth Teare ?

The j fury retired to consider the point,
but the judges remained on the Bench, each
lyin^q back wearily in his chair. There
was a general movement in the Court, a
buzz of whispered conversation, and a sigh
of relief, as if the tension had been relaxed
for a moment.

The functions of the Bishop and the
Archdeacon require some explanation.
While the Deemsters were the representatives
of Justice, the two clergymen were
present as being typical of Mercy, in
accordance with a very old statute which
was abolished in 1845. Though their
mission on earth was to preach peace and
goodwill, they had to sit here in judgment

upon one of their fellow-creatures whose
life was trembling in the balance. A painful
position, truly ! The question put to
the jury was, not as in England, ' Guilty or
not Guilty,' but ' May the man of the
chancel continue to sit ?' The answer was
a plain Yes or No. In the latter case, the
departure of the clergy was followed by
sentence of death.

The period of waiting seemed interminable.
Plague sat staring at the knot ; the
advocates had settled themselves around
the table again ; and there was less talking
in the body of the Court. At last, the 
sent the chief constable
to ask how long the jury were likely to be.
The answer was speedily brought back :
Coming now, your excellency.' Instantly
every face was turned towards the door ;
and, amid a breathless silence, the jury
entered and took their seats.

'^ Gentlemen, are you all agreed upon
your verdict ?'

'• We are, your Honour.'

Then the Southern Deemster put the
usual question thus : ' Vod y iir-charree
soie ?'

Fod;*

The Deemster formally discharged the
prisoner, and the Court cleared like magic,
everybody being anxious to get into the
open air to talk more freely. They had
many questions to put to one another.
Who had raised the bridge ? With what
object ? Had Macdonald been murdered
or not ? If so, by whom ? After all, the
stigma upon the town had not been removed
as they had hoped.

'Where would you like to go?' asked
Frank, making an attempt to shake hands
with Plague, who still sat in the dock in

He may.

the same stupefied way. ' Would you

like What is it, Killey?' he asked,

breaking ofi* to speak to a man who had
just tapped him on the shoulder.

^ I've got a covered car for him yonder,
Master Frank.'

Where are you going to take him ?'

To Mistress Gale's at Ballasalla.'

So they led Plague out to the car at the
Castle gate and put him inside. But just
as it was about to drive oiF, Frank stepped
forward to ask :

By the way, Killey, who ordered the
car ?'

Your wife, Master Frank,' replied Killey,
with a curious stare. ' She's taken lodgings
for Plague, she would me.'

This was a new trait in Diana. It gave
Frank's resolution a greater shock than her
reckless flirtations had ever done.

CHAPTER VI.

PLOT AND COUNTERPLOT.

When the affairs of the bank were investigated,
the deficiency was found to be
greater than had been anticipated. How
much or how little of the blame rested
upon Macdonald is of no consequence. He
acted according to his lights and failed;
and we who are ignorant of the weights in
the balance and are obliged to fashion our
own weights which may be very far astray
for all we know, there being no available
standard of comparison and no inspector to
test and stamp them, would rather attribute

this failure to misfortune. In any case, lie
is dead and buried, so let him lie.

The results of the bank failure may be
briefly stated thus : The holders of notes
were paid in full, with interest up to the
date of redemption ; the depositors received
back twelve-and-sixpence in the pound ;
and the shareholders, unable to meet the
heavy call upon them, were ruined to a
man. To the last class belonged Mr.
Maddrell and Mr. Colquitt, both retaining
their houses and personal effects, but very
little else.

Frank's father having left him a sum
which brought him in about fifty pounds a
year, he transferred it to his uncle and
compelled him to take it. Upon this
pittance, together with such trifles as they
earned at the Bar, they had henceforth to
live. Without a murmur, the old man
proceeded to adapt himself to circumstances.

He discharged the housemaid and
retained only the cook ; sold off everything
he did not absolutely require, greatly to
the discomfiture of the long-tailed rats
who had come to look upon the old lumber
room at the top of the house as a fashionable
promenade ; fished when the weather
permitted; even borrowed Frank's gun
occasionally and sallied forth to shoot a
hare or a curlew for dinner; lived on
almost nothing himself, yet would allow
of no such abstinence in his nephew ; Worked
vigorously at any legal business that
fell in his way ; in short, behaved as he
had shown he could when the necessity
arose.

The result of Plague's trial had filled
him with delight. The dear old man had
an idea that it was all his own doings
though he was very proud of Frank's share
in it. Then came the ferocious dispute

between Major Christorey and the High
Bailiff, whom, by the way, we have seen on
very friendly terms at the latter's house.
Mr. Maddrell pulled that off too. He was
in great glee at having got hold of such a
stubborn client ; for the major, not content
with the one victory, thirsted for another,
and put this suit also into Mr. Maddrell's
hand — against the Hio;h Bailiff ao-ain.

Nevertheless, even when Frank's earnings
were thrown in, uncle and nephew
had a desperately hard fight to keep the
wolf from the door.

As for the Colquitts, they were, if anything,
in a still worse plight, for they had
but a hundred a year among the five —
three helpless women, a man without any
occupation, and a boy whose education
was barely begun. This small sum, or
rather the capital it represented, having
been settled upon Mrs. Colquitt at her

marriage, was all they had saved from the
wreck.

Thinking it all over, Mona felt that they
really were in desperate straits. There
were fish in the sea, no doubt ; the garden
might be made to yield something, if only
Cain the Leg could be induced to bestir
himself; and the few unostentatious
presents from friends every now and again
came in very useful. But, after all, what
did it amount to? It was pinch and
struggle and scrcAv : wear old dresses, and
try to make them look new : starve at home
and endeavour to look cheerful and well-fed
out of doors : a weary dreary prospect.
Then again there was Nessie pining away,
her cheeks grooving paler, and her body
thinner. A doctor's bill would just
complete their ruin.

So Mrs. Colquitt and Mona put their
heads together and invited Fabian Dalrymple

and Ned Christorey to supper.
Admiration, they felt, was seldom thrown
away upon a young girl ; and, when spiced
with a little jealousy, it could not fail to
produce some effect, which time would
mature. It was better not to be in a hurry,
but just to loosen the old attachment
gently and carefully, so that the tendrils
might not be broken, and then the need for
something else to cling to would make itself
felt by degrees. That Nessie should throw
away all her chances in life simply because
she had met with a reverse, was altogether
too ridiculous ; nay, more, it placed her in
an entirely false position, from which it
behoved them to extricate her as speedily
as possible. She regarded herself, absurdly
enough, as a widow who had been the unfortunate
cause of her husband's death, but
others would take a very different view.
If she persisted in her determination to

keep all lovers at a distance, they would
naturally suspect her of hankering after a
married man — a very dreadful thing and
quite untrue. Thus argued the two
match-makers, the mother and her practical
daughter.

Mrs. Colquitt, indeed, feared that this
dreadful thing had already befallen them,
for they had not been invited to any of the
recent entertainments. She had been
sorely troubled as one after the other passed
her by ; it touched her upon a woman's
tenderest point ; and, when she saw that an
edict of social ostracism had unmistakably
been issued against her, she was well-nigh
desperate. Who had wrought her the evil ?
There was always some ringleader whom
the rest followed.

She never dreamed of suspecting the
kind friend, Fabian Dalrymple, who dropped
in nearly every day to sit by their fireside.

Yet he it was, his continual insinuations
about the vile conspiracy to obtain
Diana's money having ripened and borne
fruit, which was plain enough to Mrs.
Colquitt, though the seed was kept hidden
from her.

In her extremity, regarding her husband
as a sort of Derby dog, she let off her
frenzy against him, hooted at him incessantly,
and called upon her daughters todo
the same ; then, seeing that she had
made him positively ill, dosed him with
medicine, petted him inordinately, set him
on his legs, and hooted at him again. To
make matters worse, a feeling of restraint
had come between Nessie and her mother
and sister, and under the grinding influence
of poverty the whole family was in
danger of falling to pieces. In short, the
faggot had been separated from its fellows,
and was now in course of disintegration.

An alliance with some good family would
remedy this. Mrs. Colquitt favoured
Dalrymple, and Mona Ned, but neither so
strongly as to oppose the other. It mil
be seen, then, that the proposed supper
was not such a wild piece of extravagance
as might appear on the surface.

The town was almost deserted as Ned
passed through it on his way to Claddagh
House, from which, owing to his peculiar
position, he had lately held aloof. Though
anxious to say a few words privately to
Nessie, he felt the evening would be an
embarrassing one. So he walked along
slowly, now stopping to talk to an acquaintance,
and now addressing a little advice to
Toby, who always retired like a confidential
servant when any of the superior race
were spoken to. There were a few soldiers
swaggering about with short canes, several
fishermen lounging on the quay, a constable

peeping from the station as he wondered
whether it was worth while taking a look
round, but scarcely anybody else ; for the
night was cold and, at times, gloomy.
The only person by the drawbridge was
Jonathan Vondy, smoking and gazing
thoughtfully at the sky.

*Well, Jonathan, how are you ?' asked
Ned.

Aw ! middling' — just middling', Master
Ned,' replied the old fossil, who had probably
never been in better health in his
life. ' An' how's thyself?'

^ Oh ! I'm right enough. What's the
weather going to be like ?'

^ 'Deed, but I wouldn't like to say for
that at all,' replied Jonathan, from whom
it would have puzzled a cleverer man than
Ned to extract a definite opinion on any
subject. ' There's nothing' so contrary as
the weather ; it's for all the world like a

VOL. IL K

woman. But just look yonder, Master
Ned !' added he, pointing to the sky.
^ That's a mortal queer thing, like [a great
spider eaten' up the moon.'

There was a patch of blue sky over
Langness, a break in the roof of the dark
tavern which enclosed the night, and over
it had been flung a filmy veil of cloud
strongly resembling a spider's web, in
which the moon had become entangled.
Stealthily making its way across the web
was the spider itself — a fearful creature
with a diabolical head, long supple legs,
and an immense oval belly, quite black.
The unfortunate moon seemed to tremble
and flutter as its enemy approached ; then
it lay still and the end soon came. The
great mouth sucked it down — these aerial
spiders are in advance of their earthly
brethren — and gradually it vanished into
utter darkness.

As Ned walked on again, lie naturally
fell to associating this singular phenomenon
with the one person in whom his thoughts
Avere centred — Nessie. The web around
her he saw, and would gladly have given
his life to destroy ; but the spider that was
largely responsible for the web, he did not
see. It would have been a strange thing-had
he done so, being a dull, honest, good-hearted
fellow who never looked for harm
in anybody. Though he did not like
Dalrymple, he knew nothing against him,
and was far too generous to attribute
motives without sufficient cause. He had
tried to reason himself out of a dislike
which he sometimes felt to be unjust ; but
he had not been very successful, his efforts
in this direction having been thwarted by
Toby ! Toby not only shared his master's
feelings but also added some bias on his
own account, and, as Ned placed more

k2

reliance in such matters upon his dog's
instincts than upon his own judgment, he
had to give way.

But where was Toby now ? Ned, who
had turned the corner by the smithy and
stood on the road by the side of the bay,
called and whistled without getting any
answer. But a few moments later he
heard, some distance ahead, a succession of
angry growls and a man's voice raised in
menace. As he hurried forward, a gleam
of moon-light showed him a tall thin
figure brandishing a stick at Toby, who
was selecting the best calf to begin
upon.

Come here, Toby, you miserable sinner
1' cried Ned, with a great show of indignation.


There was quite as little reality about
Toby's penitence. For when he had got
halfway to his master, he stopped and

looked back with regret at the leg lie had
been ordered not to touch, and then looked
reproachfully at Ned. A penniless boy
gazing in through a pastry-cook's window
could sympathise with him here. His eyes
glistened and his tongue had a curious roll
from side to side as he moved towards his
usual place.

What do you mean, sir,' said Ned, ' by
showing your ugly teeth to a gentleman ?
Eh? Aren't you ashamed of yourself?
Well,' added he, almost laughing, ' if the
rascal isn't licking his chops ! He hasn't
hurt you, Dalrymple, I hope.'

He knew better,' answered Dalrymple,
rather sulkily. ' I wonder that even here
such a villainous-looking brute is allowed
to be at large.'

Oh ! he's not half as bad as he looks,'
said Ned, lightly. ' He never bites without
provocation, and that's a great thing.

How did he find you out? And, by the
way, where are you off to at this time of
night r

To supper at Claddagh House.'

So am I,' said Ned, with surprise.

Dalrymple looked equally surprised, neither
guest having been told of the others
invitation. This little piece of artfulness
had, however, fallen short in its purpose,
thanks to Toby ; for it had been expected
that the meeting of the two men Avould
take place in the presence of the girl they
admired, when something of their respective
attitudes could scarcely have failed to
appear in the confusion of the moment.
It puzzled Dalrymple and made him
thoughtful.

Anyone else going?' he asked, as they
walked on together.

Not that I know of.'

Quite a family party, then.'

As he spoke, a change came over his
manner. He dropped the air of contemptuous
superiority which he had hitherto
adopted towards Ned, and grew very
friendly.

This new departure of Dalrymple's remained
unaltered throughout the evening.
Instead of attempting to monopolise Nessie,
he left her entirely to Ned and devoted
himself to her mother. Mona, who was
clear-headed enough to distrust him, could
not understand his conduct. Here he was
deliberately assigning himself the part of
second fiddle ! Surely it could not be that
he had guessed Ned's feelings, and, like the
French Guard of the legend, generously
offered him the first shot !

Though it had been arranged that
Dalrymple should take Nessie down to
supper, he insisted upon escorting Mrs.
Colquitt, who was at once flattered and

perplexed. It was a tempting theory that
he came to Claddagh House for the
pleasure of her society, and yet she could
hardly accept it, difficult as it was to find
any other. Had he only been flirting with
Nessie ? and, with the good feeling which
he had always shown so conspicuously,
was he now making way for one whom he
saw was in earnest ? Decidedly, Ned must
be encouraged.

Such was Mrs. Colquitt's conclusion as
they all went upstairs from supper; at
which some excellent wine a present from
Ned's father, had been a prominent feature.
The major, in conjunction with several
others, imported his own direct from
France, thus avoiding the heavy English
duty and making sure of the quality. Perhaps
a glass or two of his father's claret had
something to do with the courage with
which Ned now attacked a painful subject.

Arrived in the craving-room, lie showed
a strong desire to get ISTessie into a corner
by herself, but would scarcely have been
successful had not Dalrymple engaged all
the others in conversation. He kept them
going as a conjuror does a number of balls,
and even found something to glue Georgie
to his seat.

Nessie,' Ned began, in an undertone, ^ I
have something very particular to say to
you.'

A gentle hand laid upon his arm caused
him to raise his eyes, and he saw the pretty
little timid thing looking at him sadly,
imploringly. He drew a quick breath
before he went on.

No,' he said. ^ Are we not friends ?
Are we not brother and sister?'

Yes, brother and sister,' repeated Nessie,
approvingly, stroking him as she used todo.


And I wish to speak to my sister about
a friend — about poor Frank.'

What ?' she exclaimed, with a start.
Oh, nothing has happened to him ?'

Nothing but what you know, and that's
bad enough. How can I help you ? How
can I help him? I mean — well, don't you
see, things can't go on in this dreadful
way ; and if you'll only tell me what you
would like, why, I'll do it of course.'

Nessie caught his idea the more rapidly
because it was almost identical with her
own. Yet her lips quivered as she put it
into words.

'You think,' she said, tremblingly
turning over the leaves of a book, ' I
ought to advise him to live with — with
Diana.'

No,' cried Ned, wincing for her. ' Oh,
no, Nessie, not you, you poor thing. But

I thought perhaps I, as his friend and
yours, ought to advise him, if I only knew
what.'

I have done so already. And you, Ned,
who are always thinking of everybody but
yourself, can do the same. But, if Frank
seems to be in the wrong, you will trust
him; won't you, Ned? I'm quite, quite
sure you will never repent it.'

Ned felt so proud of her that he was unable
to do more than press her hand. As
they sat thus, they suddenly became aware
that a profound silence had fallen upon the
rest of the party. Looking round, they
beheld Mrs. Colquitt staring in amazement
at a Bank of England note for a hundred
pounds. With the exception of Dalrymple,
who had discreetly turned away, all the
other faces were thrust forward to look at
this wonderful thing, which Sheval had

brought in in an envelope directed in an
unknown hand. Who had sent it ? Who
could have sent it ?

In the presence of this family excitement,
the two guests rose and said goodnight.
When they got outside the gate,
Dalrymple linked his arm in Ned's and
then proceeded further to astonish him.

Ned,' said he, confidentially, ' if you
would help your friends out of their
difficulties — I mean not only the delightful
family we have just left, but also Mr. Frank
Maddrell and his beautiful wife — what you
have to do is to marry Miss Nessie Col-quite.
She is very fond of you and you
are very fond of her, if you mil pardon
my saying so. Her family would welcome
the match ; yours, I daresay, would offer
no objection ; and then, hey presto ! all this
dreadful entanglement is blown to the
winds.'

Ned fairly gasped for breath. How
foully he had been maligning this generous
thoughtful friend ! And from this new
standpoint how different everything looked,
all the lights and shadows seeming to have
changed places !

CHAPTER VII.

Diana's penance.

It was a cold clear morning, with the
peculiar steely blue look in the air which
belongs exclusively to winter. The ensign
over the Castle flapped and fluttered
in the gusty breeze ; the clouds went by
overhead like white smoke; and in the
background stood the green hills by the
sea, watching still, ever watching and
listening.

It was the hour for gossip : the hour
when man, having dreamt, seeks new
material for the coming night, and, having

breakfasted, takes a genial interest in his
neighbour. There may be some who take
such interest before breakfast — chiefly
cannibals, perhaps ; but a good meal is the
surest foundation for Christian charity.
This was the prevalent spirit in Castletown
market-place of a morning. When any
malice chanced to get into the cup, it
tumbled in with the dregs of the day.

Jonathan Vondy sat on the stone slab in
front of the sundial on the glacis. There
were some fine cod by his side which he was
willing to sell if anyone happened to want
them. A number of advocates were
chaffing the old fellow about his fish, which
they pretended he had kept in water all
night in order to make them look fresh.
To and fro walked Major Christorey, Mr.
Hudson, and several others, as on that
morning when our story opened. Mrs.
Sherwood and her daughter were again at

their window in very much the same
attitudes. But for them, at least, how
changed the scene !

There came a pedlar to the door, with a
pack on his pack and a yard measure in
his hand.

Hearing his ring, Diana started and
trembled violently.

'Who is that?' she exclaimed.

Only a pedlar,' replied Mrs. Sherwood,
looking out of the Window. And then, as
she saw the bitter disappointment in her
daughter's face, she added, pityingly :
My poor, poor girl, how long are you
going on waiting and watching from day
to day and Aveek to week? Why won't
you come away with your mother and
leave this hateful place?'

Oh, mother, I love him,' burst from
Diana's quivering lips. ' Yes, I love him
better than my own mother — for is he not

my husband? I've got what I wanted,
and see what has come of it ! I'm the most
miserable woman in the Avorld, and I love
him all the more because I am.'

'He's a worthless fellow,' was all the
mother could say to this passionate outburst,
which had cut her to the quick.

Don't say that, mother.'

Why not, pray ? All our friends — I've
been talking it over with them — say his
conduct is scandalous.'

Not a word against Frank,' said Diana,
firing up. ' I won't have it, remember.
What have these friends, as you call them,
to say to my share in the matter ?'

The Indian-looking old lady folded her
jewelled hands and meekly stared at them.

'Well?' exclaimed her daughter, impatiently.


They don't know.'

'Don't know!'

VOL. II. L

Is it likely I should say anything that
might be turned against my own child ?'

And Frank has never spoken ! He has
been bearing my sins ! Oh, mother, mother,
surely he loves me

She had burst into tears. While still
sobbing, she drew her mother to her side
and showered down kisses upon the
wrinkled face. A few moments later the
tears were gone and she was laughing.
She glided to the piano and played a merry
little air. such as had not been heard in
the house for many a long day ; then back
attain to her mother with more kisses. But
she looked firm enough, and very queenly
too, as she drew her graceful figure to its
full height and said :

Now, I'm going out, to tell the whole
town what a bad wicked creature I am.
No, don't argue; you know, I'm logic-proof.

Would you have your daughter less generous
than her husband ?'

When Diana emerged in the marketplace,
a beautiful stately woman, beautifully
dressed, whose face did one's heart
good to look upon; when the major and
his companions had wheeled round, saluted,
and marched on again, glancing back wistfully
; when the young advocates had
gathered around her smiling sweetly upon
them as she used to do, then the story was
told. But it was a fib.

It has doubtless been noticed that Frank
had never once looked at the incidents
connected with the marriage from any
standpoint but his own. His view was
essentially a narrow one, as all insular
views are apt to be. Diana's may not have
been broader, but it was naturally very
different. Looking at her share in the

l2

matter, she could not see it in the same
serious light as he did. Hence, love and a
desire to bring that love to fruition induced
her to exaggerate her offence. She
accused herself of having deluded Frank

into thinking her illness a good deal worse


than it really was.

This was a very bold thing for a young

woman to say to a number of young men,

and Diana, though not wanting in nerve,

blushed as she brought up battalions of

arguments in support of her statement.

At first the advocates were somewhat

stao^o^ered : then as she did not look at

them, but continued to trace patterns on the

ground with the end of her parasol, they

ventured to look at her and afterwards atone

another. A wink led to a smile ; the

smile spread all round the circle, and,

lighting on Sammy Kneale's crooked nose,

burst into a laugh. It was checked at

once, but the mischief was done. Diana
looked up sharply and saw they did not
believe her. The anger that flashed from
her eyes drove the wag into speedy retirement
; the others she reasoned with but
soon left, thinking it better not to attempt
too much all at once.

Morning parade being just over,
Dalrymple and Morrison, in undress uniform,
were sauntering out of the barracks
at this moment. Smilingly raising their
hats, they advanced towards Diana, but
with a frigid bow she passed them by.

Though the subaltern soon recovered
from the shock, the ensign, crimson-faced,
and floundering over his sword, looked a
most pitiable object. To be cut in this
public way by the very woman who he had
fancied was dotingly fond of him, was
more than his youthful nerves could
bear.

I say, Dalrymple,' he gasped, ' what
does it mean ?'

That we have been playing with edged
tools and have cut our fingers, as we
deserve.'

Don't understand you, old fellow.'

Why, the thing's simple enough. She
has been using us against the man she loves,
and now she is disgusted with us for helping
2; her.'

'The man she loves !' repeated Morrison,
in perplexity. ' Surely she doesn't love
that fellow who won't live With her.'

Oh, greenhorn !' laughed Dalrymple.
That's the very reason she does love
him.'

Goodness gracious !'

Diana, having accomplished her purpose,
walked on aimlessly along the street, and
so into the country beyond. She had a vague
hope of meeting Frank, whose favourite

place for exercise lie lead been unable to
discover. Of one thing sbe was quite certain
: that he was never to be seen in the
market-place now-a-days.

As she approached Maleww Church, she
heard the sound of a fiddle, and presently
a singular procession came in sight, with
Black Charlie at its head, playing 'The
Black and the Grey.' It was a peasant
wedding. Standing by the gate, Diana
watched them all enter the church-yard.
After the Avhite-headed negro fiddler came
the bridegroom and his dinner miller, or
spokesman, who transacted all the necessary
financial business with the bride's parents,
the bargaining about the amount of the
dowry being always very keen ; then
several other male couples, every man
carrying a willow wand in his gloved hands
in token of his superior sex ! and lastly,
according to the safe old custom for which

Tehi-Tegi was held responsible, the red-cheeked
bride and her attendant bridesmaids,
also walking two and two. A motley
crowd of friends and relatives brought up
the rear, all laughing and talking, many
of the women wearing their Sunday blankets
wrapped round them like winding-sheets.
These blankets which served another
purpose, that of bed-covering at night,
were made of the unbleached wool of a
species of small Manx sheep called lugh-
dhoan^ or brown mouse. So their wearers
made a very picturesque addition to the
procession ; which marched three times
round the church before entering.

Diana sighed deeply, everybody seemed
so happy. It was such a very, very
different wedding from her own. Married
at death's door, she had struggled back to
life — for what ? To find herself abandoned
by the husband she passionately loved,

despised by the world, and doomed to
misery that would end only with the
grave. This ^t of depression, induced by
the sight of other people's happiness, was
the natural rebound from her recent hopefulness,
which now struck her as having no
real cause. She half repented of what she
had done. A feeling of shame swept over
her, and with it a dread that her act might
be ineffectual. What if all laughed as
those rude cognomen had done ? Well,
she could bear that if Frank would
appreciate her conduct, but now she could
scarcely think he would.

A little bare-footed girl came to a
cottage-door, peeped at her timidly, and
then ran in again, probably to tell her
mother of the beautiful lady who was
passing. But Diana felt she was shunned
even by this child, and, quitting the road,
went across the fields and walked homewards

along the banks of the babbling
Silverburn, where she was not likely to
meet anybody.

By-and-by she arrived at a sedgy spot
with willows o^rowins: on the one side and
gorse, still in bloom, on the other. Here
the stream rushed impetuously over an
artificial fall, to wander on gently again
through the gorse which had listened to
the sweet old story told by the young
soldier to his love many years before. At
the fall, part of the stream is diverted into
another channel. Diana, whose rambles
about the country had been very few,
followed this branch streamlet with extraordinary
excitement. Being in that painful
state of perplexity, no doubt common tous
all at times, when the mind turns
eagerly to nature for some sign in regard to
the future, she was anxious to lind out
whether it joined the Silverburn again before

reaching the sea. She almost ran
along the bank, rough as it was and studded
with gorse and thorn-bushes. When
she stopped, panting by the side of a dam,
there was a beautiful colour in her cheeks
and a happy gloAv in her eyes, for she beheld
a streamlet dashing joyously back to
the river. But the light faded the next
moment. This streamlet, she saw, carried
off merely the excess of water in the dam ;
the greater part passed over a groaning
wheel attached to an old mill, and then
pursued its solitary way towards the harbour.
So great had been Diana's excitement
that, when the disappointment came,
she was obliged to sit down lest she should
fall. It seemed to this miserable woman
as if the very stars in their courses were
fighting against her.

After a time she rose and dragged herself
wearily homewards, until one of her

fellow-creatures appeared in the distance,
when she once more became what she was
not. Few, looking at that bright winning
face or the graceful movement of that tall
supple figure, could have guessed how
painfully ached that stricken heart; and
yet some perhaps might have noticed the
searching glance that greeted them, and
have wondered what it meant.

On the stone bridge there was a quaint
little figure in a swallow-tail coat, knee-breeches,
and buckled shoes, Avhom Diana
recognised as the old chaplain. Though
he tried hard to compose his features, she
saw in a moment that he had heard her
story. Yielding to one of her sudden
impulses, she smilingly advanced upon
him.

Well, Mr. Hudson, what do you think
of me ?' she asked.

That St. Peter has been rightly named

after a rock,' replied the old man, with a
twinkle in his eyes, ^ if he can refuse tolet
you in.'

She gave him a playful tap with her
parasol.

Oh, you deceitful creature !' she
laughed. ^ But there, you are a man, so
you can't help yourself. Oh ! I'm not
going to be put off in that way ; I insist
upon having a plain answer. You have been
hearing about me, and I want to know
what you think.'

That you are sincerely to be pitied,' he
replied, gravely ; ' that your husband is
sincerely to be pitied ; and that Nessie is to
be pitied more than either of you.'

'True,' admitted Diana, with a little
shiver, for she had readily responded to his
serious mood. ' I shall carry that thorn to
my grave. Then am I very, very greatly
to be blamed?'

Is that story true ?' lie inquired, looking
at her keenly.

She blushed, hesitated, and then murmured
: ^ Yes.'

'And the — the — Remember, I ask not
only as a clergyman, but also as a friend.
And the proposal came from you ?'

Yes,' she replied, scarlet now.

Then you were the tempter, weren't
you ?' said the chaplain, gently. ' But
heaven forbid that I should judge you ! I
can only pity you all. The others have
been nearly as foolish ; and you know, folly
is often punished in this world more
severely than sin.'

Her own words to Frank ! With what a
heavy burden of sorrow they came home
to her now ! If only for Nessie's sake she
must persist in this story she had set
going ; and for her own sake — for the sake

of the love lie bore Frank — she would let
him know what lie had done.

Accordingly when Diana reached home,
she sat down and wrote a tender little note,
beo^o^ino; him to come and see her. He
need not be afraid, she said, of her trying
to persuade him against his judgment ; it
was not for that she wanted him. She
had to thank him for his exceeding kindness
to one who had proved wholly unworthy,
and also to tell him something
which she thought he ought to know.
Dear Frank, do, do come !' was the ending
of her note, Which was tinged with
just enough mystery to make it enticing.

It was entrusted to Bobby Beg for
immediate delivery, and he went ois in
great glee at having such an important
commission. As he went dancing across
the market-place, he sang lustily :

The king can only sail a boat,
And I can do the same ;
I only sails when I'm afloat,
And that's the for I came.'

It was very seldom indeed that the
trouble of others ever penetrated his misty
brain ; it had to be very obtrusive before
the merry simpleton could see and feel it.
So, meeting Frank on the point of entering
his uncle's house, he presented his missive
with a grin.

Recognising the writing, Frank hastily
thrust the note into his pocket and turned
away to hide his confusion.

That Avill do, thank you, Bobby Beg,'
he said.

^ No, it won't. Master Frank,' said
Bobby Beg, with determination, ^ for I
was would not to come back without an
answer.'

I'll send one presently.'

'No. Master Frank. I'll just stay here
till I get it.'

Frank went to his room, read the note
and after some hesitation wrote a reply.
As an interview could serve no useful
purpose, he said, and would certainly be
very painful to both, he felt he was only
acting rightly in declining it. His words
sounded hard — a great deal harder than
his feelings, but that is so often the way
with letters.

That evening, when Frank and his uncle
were sitting by the fireside, the former
reading law, and the latter searching the
Bible for quotations on the subject of
beards, there arrived a letter for Mr.
Maddrell. When opened, the envelope
was found to contain merely a Bank of
England note for a hundred pounds. They
sat and looked at it with astonishment,

VOL. II. M

which would have been greatly increased
had they known that, almost at the very
same moment, a similar thing was happening
at Claddao^h House.

Mr. Maddrell scrutinised the writing, but
did not know it ; then Frank took a turn
at it with no better result. But — why or
wherefore he scarcely knew — suddenly it
occurred to him to compare it with the
note he had received from Diana. There
was very little resemblance between the
two addresses, Diana's being written in a
neat small lady-like hand, and the other inlarge,
round characters such as a beginner
would use J and yet so tenacious was Frank
of any idea that had once entered his head,
that his suspicion gained strength, and his
face flushed with thinking of it.

Uncle,' he said, earnestly, ' we won't
touch that money, come what may. Some

day we shall find out who sent it, and
return it.'

'Most certainly,' said Mr. Mandrel
We have not come down to charity yet.'

Besides Diana, there was one other
person who might have sent the money,
and that was Ned. Frank determined to
put the question to him point-blank on the
earliest opportunity.

He had not long to wait, for next
morning Ned entered the office on a very
delicate errand.

m2

CHAPTER VIII.

ned's problem.

Though Ned should have grown grey in
his father's house, he would never have
been allowed a latch-key. It was not that
the major distrusted his son ; it was purely
habits which was to him what the shell is
to a crabs only he could not get out of it
so easily, for when his ideas had crystallised
they became as insoluble as diamonds.
His wife, it is true, had managed to solve
one occasionally ; but even she had failed
in this matter of a latch-key, which was a
source of much discomfort in the family.

When Ned happened to be invited anywhere
in the evening, his father always
insisted upon making a martyr of himself
by sitting up, so Mrs. Christorey had to do
the same in order to lighten the period of
waiting, lest her son should be greeted, as
was often the case, with a course of growls
kept hot for the purpose. It was not a
very cheerful reception, especially after
leaving a room full of smiling faces. If
anything could make a young fellow dissatisfied
with his own home, it would be
such a contrast as this, forced upon him
night after night.

Mrs. Christorey, well though she knew
what a good heart lay beneath her husband's
brittle exterior, had much to endure,
he bristled so thickly with prejudices.
Being a little afraid of him, she was more
than once driven to a harmless deception
to gain her end. When Ned was likely to

be late, she would get the major out of the
room for a while, and, his old turnip of a
watch being wholly untrustworthy, put the
clock back. She did this on the night of
the supper at Claddagh House.

Ned's return was delayed by Dalrymple's
extraordinary change of manner. When
invited into the quarters of his new friend,
he could not very well refuse. He was too
dazed to have a clear idea of what he was
doing. There was a prospect of untold
happiness dancing before his eyes, and
though it had been divested of every atom
of selfishness and presented to his vision
even as a piece of self-sacrifice, he scarcely
dared look at it. He felt, however, that
he had been grossly wronging in his own
mind a most excellent man ; and said so
with a frankness that rather embarrassed
Dalrymple.

Presently he rose and said he really

must go as his father would be sitting up
for him, a remark that provoked a very
disagreeable smile, though he did not
happen to notice it. Dalrymple accompanied
him to the door, where the two
men cordially shook hands, after which
Ned resumed his walk.

Toby, who had declined to enter the
barracks, joined him a short distance along
the street, gazing at Ned with an air of
troubled perplexity. What new fad had
his master got into his stupid head ? Toby
no doubt put this question into the
balance and tried all the canine weights,
from boneless beef at one end of the scale
to a knobby stick at the other, but evidently
could make nothing of it.

As Ned walked along the drive, he
observed there were no lights in the hall,
a bad sign which at once depressed his
spirits. His knock was followed by a

violent rattling of bars and bolts, another
bad sign, and when the door opened, he
was admitted in ominous silence and
darkness. The major, who had been standing
behind the door, closed it with much
unnecessary noise and stiffly marched
back to the sitting-room where, in order to
complete his martyrdom, he had purposely
allowed the fire to smoulder out. After
taking off his boots in the dark, Ned
followed him.

Mrs. Christorey, laying down her fancy
work, looked up with a fond yet anxious
smile, for her husband was standing in a
most uncompromising attitude, with his
solitary arm pointing like a semaphore at
the clock.

A fine time of night to come home at,
Edward !' he said, severely. ' Do you ever
think, I wonder, of your mother and me

waiting heine in the cold, while you are
enjoying yourself?'

But, sir, is it so very late ? Surely
twenty-hive minutes to eleven is not an
outrageous hour.'

It was with a start of surprise that the
Major noticed the position of the hands of
the clock. After a hard stare at them, he
consulted his watch, and finally shot a
glance of intense indignation at his distressed
wife.

just half-an-hour's difference between
them,' he said, ' yet I happened to observe
they were together at eight o'clock !' Then
he turned angrily on his son to add : ' This,
sir, is what you drive your mother to by
your dissipated conduct. The time is five
minutes past eleven, and she has been
tampering with the clock — deceiving her
husband to screen you. What, am I an ogre

that my own wife should conspire against
me? Don't stand there like a dummy
Edward! Haven't you a single word to
say for yourself?'

^ Tt is not for Ned to say anything,
Reginald,' interposed Mrs. Christorey, gently.
'■ I am the only one to blame. I'm sorry
now for what I did ; but believe me, I
meant it for your sake quite as much as
Ned's, for I know you don't like to find
fault with your son.'

But, mother, I am later than I intended
to be,' said Ned, laying his hand on her
shoulder.

His father looked at him curiously.
^ What have you been doing ?' he asked.

'Enjoying some of your excellent wine,
for one thing.'

'Stuff!' said his father, though somewhat
modified by this diplomatic touch. ' I
don't want to hear what you had to eat or

drink. Did you settle that business?'

You know, Reginald '

Please, let Ned speak for himself.'
Some time ago, sir,' stammered Ned,
I told you my feelings on that subject.'

Sit down,' said the major, pointing to
a chair and taking a seat himself ' I
must see if I can't knock a little reason
into your head. You place the matter on
very high ground — certain fanciful duties
of love and friendship. Well, I'll endeavour
to meet you there. We have to deal with
five different persons — young Maddrell,
his wife, Nessie Colquitt, yourself, and that
fellow Dalrymple. Be good enough,' said
he, seeing that Ned was about to make
some remark, ^ not to interrupt me ; when
I have finished, it will be your turn to
speak. Mrs. Maddrell is in love with her
husband — strange, but true ; he is in love
with Nessie, who is fond of you, you admit ;

and you are in love with lier and very
friendly with the other two. Now, that is
the position. What we have to do is to
find out a way of pleasing everybody, more
or less. There is only one way — by your
marrying Nessie. If you do that, husband
and ivife will assuredly drift together intime
and both will attain a degree of
happiness which would otherwise be unattainable
for either ; Nessie will be happy
because they are, and also because she has
got a devoted husband ; and you, who have
done all this, would, I should think, be
pretty well satisfied on their account, to say
nothing of your own as you seem to think
it of no importance.'

Though the words were harsh, the major
deemed it prudent to pause here to steady
his voice, and the look he gave his stalwart
son was not devoid' of pride. But, seeing
Ned raise his head, he feared lest his

weakness should be detected, and became
as hard as nails again.

On the other hand, Ned,' he proceeded,
'- if you continue obstinate, you substitute
for all this happiness misery — misery —
nothing but misery. In all probability,
that fellow Dalrymple will step into your
shoes, marry Nessie, and make her life a
burden to her, thus causing perpetual
discord between the other two, the
Maddrells;

I assure you,' said Ned, ^ you are quite
mistaken about Dalrymple. I was labouring,'
added he, with characteristic honesty,
under the same mistake myself until this
evening. Dalrymple is a thoroughly good
disinterested friend. You look astonished,
sir, but you'll agree with me when I tell
you that he has just been giving me the
same advice as you are now doing.'

^ What ! Advising you to marry Nessie ?'

Yes. It's a fact, I assure

you.

The major sat bolt upright in his chair,
and stared blankly at his Avise. This was
the most astounding thing that ever he
had heard ; it gave his convictions such a
rude shock that he felt like a man arrived
at dead of night in a new country. Now
that Dalrymple advised the marriage, he
did not feel so very sure of its advantages.
Was there not something lurking in the
background ? Like a fox that sees a fat
hen running open-winged towards it, he
began to suspect a trap and to sniff round
a bit.

What did you say to him, Ned ?' he
asked.

I said — well, I scarcely know what I
did say. I was so bewildered.'

I'm not surprised at that. And what
do you say to me ?'

You shall have my answer tomorrow
evening, if that will suit you.'

The major readily assented, glad to have
some time in which to turn round.

It was nth reference to this answer that
Ned started next morning for the advocate's
office on the quay, his purpose being to
ascertain whether Frank would think it
unfriendly of him to propose to Nessie. A
delicate errand surely, and one that few
men would undertake ! Of course, it maybe
said Frank could offer no opposition,
for he had not the shadow of a right to do
so ; but while he bowed to the inevitable,
his real feelings would never appear. This
may be true enough, but it was not Ned's
way of looking at the matter. His own
unvarnished sincerity led him to expect
the same in others ; when a choice of motives
was offered him, he invariably chose
the best for another and the worst for himself;

and his idea of love was a ceaseless
endeavour to confer the greatest possible
happiness upon the person loved, without
any regard to himself. No doubt, the idea
is out of date, but it is worth putting on
record. It accurately describes the nature
of his own love for ISFessie, and he was not
likely to credit his friend with anything
less. If, then, it was necessary to her
happiness that he should marry her, he
could anticipate from Frank nothing but
hearty approval.

There certainly was a doubt in Ned's
mind, but it sprang from a very different
cause. He could scarcely believe in this
wonderful method for reconciling his duty
with his inclinations. Opposed to all his
previous experience, it promised such a
wealth of happiness to himself that he felt
there must be something wrong. But he
consoled himself with the reflection that if

his dull wits had been led astray by his
heart, Nessie would set him right, even
if Frank failed to do so. Such was
his conclusion as he walked along the
street.

There were a number of ladies talking
together on the pavement opposite a
chemist's shop. Diana was advancing
towards them, apparently with the intention
of joining them. But as she approached
they coldly bowed and turned their backs
upon her. She paused a moment as if her
power of movement had been suspended,
and then with a haughty glance went by,
quivering as she tried to suppress the look
of pain in her beautiful face. It was not
the sort of thing that Ned could witness
unmoved; he strode up to her and took her
hand.

Please, don't take any notice of such
rudeness,' he said. ' I shouldn't have

VOL. ir. N

thought it possible of any lady in this
town.'

Ah ! you are a man she said, with a
grateful smile. ^ You can't understand us
women. We are all alike, always in
extremes, good or bad, flitting from one to
the other and back again before a man has
time to open his eyes. If I had been in
the place of one of them and she in mine,
I daresay I should have behaved in exactly
the same way. But that,' added she, sadly,
' doesn't make it any easier for the
victim.'

Not at all,' assented Ned, looking very
puzzled at Diana's views of her own sex.
But just come back with me. We'll
show them you have one friend at any
rate.'

So, to please him, Diana went back with
him. As they passed the ladies who had
incurred his displeasure, he gave them a

most stately bow and marched by, as stiff
as his father.

Have you seen him lately, Ned ?'
Diana ventured to ask.

'Yes,' he replied, knowing quite well
that the ' him ' referred to Frank, ' I'm
going to see him now.'

Though she did not put her request
into words, the appealing look she gave
him was quite enough, and no answer
could have been more complete than the
sympathy expressed in his rugged face.
Was he not even then going on a mission
which had for its object the very thing she
so earnestly desired ?

Oh, Ned,' she said, * how can I thank
you?'

Before he could answer, they had come
into full view of the market-place. And
there they beheld the soldiers drawn up in
line, the sun glistening on their fixed

n2

bayonets and the drawn swords of the
three officers. It was a menacing attitude
and the crowd near the Castle did not seem
very clear about their intentions.

Now, remember, men,' roared Nugent,
nothing but cold steel. Charge !'

The bugler startled the solemn rooks on
the Castle Avails, but the thin red line
sweeping across the market-place startled
the crowd still more. With surprising
speed, they dispersed in all directions. The
glacis was stormed without misadventure
of any sort, and apparently to the complete
satisfaction of the captain who had lately
taken a fancy to these military experiments.


But, amid the rush of people, Ned
detected a quaint little poke-bonnet which
he recognised as Nessie's ; and, taking an
abrupt leave of Diana, he hurried to the
rescue. Dalrymple, who had noticed herat

the same moment, was also proceeding
to her assistance : but, when he saw Ned,
he waved his hand encouragingly and
turned to follow his men. During the
brief hesitation that occurred, the spectators
had contrived to get disentangled from one
another ; so Ned, seeing Nessie quietly
walking off with Mr. Hudson as an escort,
thought it best to go on his way.

In one respect, the incident was a most
gratifying one ; it showed him he was not
mistaken about Dalrymple. When we
keep turning a thing over and over in our
minds, it is very apt to lose its reality.
We look at it in so many different aspects
that we forget our original standpoint ;
the outline consequently becomes blurred,
and the mental impression altogether disturbed.
Did it happen yesterday or the
day before? We scarcely know. Did it
happen at all? We are doubtful even

about that. It is no longer the remembrance
of an actual event ; it is a dream.
This is especially the case when it accords
nth our wishes, which, we remember,
have a way of calling in the imagination
to play strange tricks upon the memory.

It is no wonder, then, that Ned had been

half-inclined to distrust his recollection of

what had taken place on the previous

night. Perhaps he had been deceiving

himself; perhaps Dalrymple had meant

something very different, or perhaps he

had not known his own mind and might

change it in the morning. The object in view

was so very precious to Ned that he could

not help harassing himself with all manner

of doubts. There was yet another, which

he had fought against strenuously but not

with entire success. Might not the major's

claret have had something to do with^DaU

rymple's sudden attack of friendliness?

However, all that was at an end now.
Ned was in an uncommonly cheery mood
when he entered Frank's office.

You, Ned r exclaimed Frank, looking
up from the papers before him. ' Take a
seat, old chap. Your father has become a
good client to my uncle ; are you bringing
a case to the nephew T

No,' replied Ned, sitting on the table,
^ I have come about Nessie whose happiness
we both have at heart. You are a married
man '

'Why remind me of that?' demanded
Frank, sharply.

Not to pain you, Frank, you maybe quite
sure. But because you can't marry Nessie.'

'And don't I know that?'

Oh, Frank, please don't make my task
more difficult than it is ! Don't you see,
Nessie must marry somebody, otherwise
she will pine her life away in misery.'

And whom do you propose ?'
Well, I thought perhaps I could make
her happier than anybody else, not from
any merits of my own, but because we have
always been like brother and sister.'

Frank, who had leaned back in his chair
to stare at Ned, stared harder than ever
during this speech. Notwithstanding its
modesty, he almost felt inclined to resent
it as a piece of rank impertinence. But Ned
had clearly no intention of saying anything
offensive. His face was grave and
earnest, and his great grey eyes beamed
with a kindly light which blinded him to
the effect he was producing. Frank ended
his scrutiny with a gruff laugh. This,
then, was the particular psalm that Mona
meant him to fiddle ! He was to help Ned
to marry Nessie ! Yet why not ? It would
be better for her, better for him, better
perhaps for himself.

What do you wish me to say, Ned ?' he
asked.

I want your opinion, Frank. Do you
think Nessie would be happier if she were
to marry me ? Mind, I don't say she will,
of course ; I can but ask her. And, if she
sees it will benefit others, she will do it for
that reason alone. But there, you know
that as well as I do.'

'Yes,' replied Frank, desperately, 'I
daresay it would be a good thing for her.
Indeed,' added he, anxious not to speak
in a grudging spirit, ' I have no doubt it
would, for she could not have a better
husband than you, Ned, if she were to
search the wide world through.'

Thank you for that, Frank, but I don't
deserve it. I'll go and ask her at once.'

He went out radiant, but immediately
afterwards pushed his head in through the
door to add :

^ May I tell her what you say about it ?'
Frank, as he noticed with surprise, had
flung his arms on the table and buried his
face in them as if he was in deep distress.
But when he looked up — which he did
with a start — his features were composed
enough.

Yes,' he replied, ' tell her by all means
Ned closed the door again and walked
thoughtfully along the quay.

CHAPTER IX.

A NEW ALLIANCE.

Since Diana's illness, Nessie had never
once met her, unless seeing her in St.
Mary's on Sunday or getting an occasional
glimpse of her in the distance can be called
meeting. Necessity, design, and accident
had all contributed towards this result. Inconsequence
of Diana's marriage, it became
the duty of those who wished to make or
continue her acquaintance, to call upon
her, her first appearance in church being
the signal that she was ready to receive
such callers. But this Mrs. Colquitt had

purposely omitted to do, and where the
mother would not go, the daughter could
not. Thus prevented from meeting at their
own homes, Diana and Nessie were not
likely to meet at anybody else's, the Col-quits
not having been invited anywhere ;
and, with all this awkwardness between
them, they carefully avoided a chance encounter
in the street.

At the same time there could scarcely
be two persons more anxious for one
another's friendship than this girl so
strangely bereft of her lover and this
woman so strangely wedded to him. He
had become, not a source of discord between
them, but rather a bond of union.
If either had ever entertained any jealousy
of the other — and Diana undoubtedly had
it was dead and buried, and over its
grave had grown none but the kindliest

feelings, tinged deeply with sorrow and
regret. They longed for an opportunity
of breaking down the barrier between them,
so that their conduct might appear in its
true light and not cause unnecessary
suffering, as they knew it must be doing
Diana pitied the girl on whom she had
wrought a life-long injury, and Nessie
pitied the woman who had brought so
much misery upon herself and Frank.
But the past could not be undone : why
then rail against it and reduce the present
and the future to the same dreary level ?
Better far to make a fresh start. Such
was Diana's view, as expressed to Frank
and afterwards acted upon. It was also
Nessie's, for she liked to see people cheerful
and happy and always did her utmost to
make them so. If only the two could have
come together and freely discussed the

matter, they would have settled it long
ago. But, with the lapse of time, this had
become more difficult.

So when Nessie, dragged by Mr. Hudson
out of the path of the soldiers as they
stormed the glacis and swept the spectators
on either side, suddenly found herself face
to face with Frank's wife, she blushed and
hung her head. As she stood there
trembling, the chaplain looked in some
perplexity from the pretty shy little thing
by his side to the tall and beautiful woman
who seemed scarcely less confused. Then
a pleasant smile came into his benevolent
old face ; he led Nessie up to Diana, and,
leaving them together, slipped away in the
crowd.

I have been longing to meet you,' said
Nessie, giving her hand to Diana and looking
up at her timidly. ' I wanted so

much to tell you how very, very sorry I
am for you.'

Sorry for me ! Why, Nessie ?'
Nessie's full answer would have been :
'Because you have married a man who does
not love you.' But what she said was :
Because you must be so unhappy.'
That is very sweet of you, Nessie,' said
Diana, gently. ' If anyone else had been
in your place she would never have forgiven
me.'

Oh, no ; indeed, no ; I have nothing to
forgive. A great misfortune has befallen
us all, and that, I think, must make us
feel for one another. Why,' added Nessie,
with a shy glance at Diana, ' I did fear — I
was wronging you, I see now — I did fear
you might be a little angry with me, and
I'm so pleased you are not.'

Angry with you ! Surely not. How
could I be ?'

People can't change all of a sudden —
and he can't — and I thought perhaps you
might blame me. But oh, Diana, don't
think hardly of him. He will turn to you
in time, if only you'll be patient.'

Nessie,' said Diana, looking gravely at
her, ^ I should like to kiss you.' And then
the dark eyes began to glisten, and, seizing
Nessie's arm, she panted : ' Come ! Come
with me, or I shall cry.'

Dalrymple, standing on the glacis by the
sundial, saw them walking away side by
side, and smiled. That active nose of his
was in incessant motion, as was always the
case when he was pleased but had to keep
his feelings to himself It was with a
peculiarly satisfied air that, the assault being
over, he sent his sword home into his
scabbard and descended to the ground.

When the ladies, who were still standing
in front of the chemist's, beheld the advancing

couple, they nudged one another and
stared in amazement out of the corners
of their eyes. That these two should consort
together, was about the oddest thing
that had come within the range of their
experience. Nessie shivered as she
approached. It was most distressing to
the sensitive girl that she should be
shunned by her former friends, and for no
reason that she could see. But Diana,
whose powers of self-control returned with
the need of exercising them, only smiled
contemptuously and placed herself on the
nearer side of her companion as if to protect
her. Just as she and Ned had gone
by a short time before, so she and Nessie
went by now.

Do you ever think of yourself?' asked
Diana presently.

^ Oh, but I'm thinking of myself now.'
No, dear, only of him and me.'

VOL. U. O

this happiness is mine,' said Nessie,
simply, ' and yours. If there were any
chance of — of — you know what — if you
weren't really, really married. I'm afraid I
couldn't surrender him so easily. But
there is no chance, and so I have begged of
him to forget the past. And, if he can't
just yet, you won't turn against him, will
you, Diana? Oh, just think what his life
would be if he were left altogether alone !'
she ended, with a start and a scream.

A man, who had been supporting himself
against a stile, was advancing with unsteady
footsteps and outstretched hands.
He had once been a tall and powerful man,
but had apparently been wasted by suffering
and then bloated by drink. There were
blotches of red on his heavy forehead, his
eyes were bloodshot, and his long dark
hair hung down in tangled masses. As he

staggered forward, trying to balance himself
like a tight-rope walker by means of
his hands, he nearly tripped over his hat,
which lay on the ground ; but came on
again, leering at the two ladies and talking
in the most idiotic way.

^ Advance another step if you dare,
Plague,' said Diana, waving him back with
a haughty gesture.

They made a strange picture, this
beautiful woman never more magnificent
than when thoroughly roused, the pretty
timid girl clinging to her, and the wretched
creature cowering before her anger.
They were close to a ruined windmill,
which Plague and Macdonald must have
passed on the night of the latter's death ;
the country, brown and cold on this clear
December day, was spread out before them
in gentle undulations, sweeping gradually

o2

upwards to the row of mountains in the
background ; and, over towards Poolvash^
there was a glint of the sea.

Diana had a way of becoming the central
object in any scene she happened to be
placed in ; all things seemed to group
themselves around her. And now Cranks
and Barrel might have been
the seats in a vast amphitheatre, in which
she was enacting the part of some wrathful
goddess.

For one moment Plague stood trembling
before her. Then he turned to get back
to the stile, but in doing so fell in a heap
on the road.

Oh, Diana, he's hurt,' cried Nessie.

Hurt ! What if he is ? Serve him
right, the beast. But come, dear,' she
added, taking Nessie's hand, * you are
frightened. We will go back to the
town

But I'm sure lie is hurt, Diana. Please
let me speak to him first.'

No, Nessie, stay where you are.' Then
she walked up to the heap on the road and
asked : ' Are you hurt, Plague ?' Getting no
answer, she bent over him and found him
to be fast asleep, snoring.

*That thing there,' said Diana, as she
and Nessie walked back together, ' was once
a man. It had influence, reputation,
excellent prospects, an iron will, money,
friends, a good mother, and a devoted
sweetheart. But all its hopes and ambitions
were centred in one of these,
money, and when that was snatched away,
it lost everything. Only one object in life
remained to it — revenge. Whether or not
that was accomplished none can say with
certainty, but we do know that its victim
met with a violent death. Though
acquitted by the Court, it was universally

shunned ; friends tried to get it to go elsewhere
; but no, it would linger about the
old haunts with their memories of what
mio-ht have been. It had nothings' to live
for and none to associate with, so what
could you expect? The same dogged
obstinacy that had carried it up hill, now
carried it down. Frequenting the lowest
public-houses, where other things almost as
base as itself would speak to it for the sake
of a drink, it sank with inconceivable
rapidity until it has become what you see.
I sometimes wonder whether demoniacal
possession still exists ; if so, I should say

But you look surprised, Nessie. Ah,

well, you have not often seen me serious.
Why have I told you all this, which you
probably know? Because, with such an
example before me of what a desolate man
may become, I'm not likely to turn against
Franks

but, Diana,' exclaimed Nessie, quite
shocked, you would never, never compare
him '

Sto, dear, I wasn't comparing anybody.
I was only taking an extreme case to
illustrate my meaning. Do you think I
blame Frank for what is entirely my own
fault ? It would be too dreadful to name
him in the same breath with that thing
yonder. Good gracious, Nessie, here's this
unfortunate girl coming to look after him, I
do believe.'

It was Ruth Teare who had occasioned
this last remark. She tried to smile as she
came up, but there was a very sad and
anxious look in her careworn face.

If you please, Mrs. Maddrell,' she said,
have you seen that poor fellow Dick Plague
anywhere up the road.'

^ Come back with us, Ruth,' said Diana,
gently, ' that's a good girl. If he is anywhere

about, we'll send a man to search for
him — if you wish to see him,' added she,
with the intention of ignoring the state she
knew he was in. ' But your father would
scarcely like you to be going after
him.'

'He's just left the house,' said Ruth,
colouring, ' so I slipped out too, for I saw
Dick go past some time back, and I thought
he didn't look well.'

^ We'll see he is properly attended to.'

Thank you, ma'am, kindly. And oh,'
cried Ruth, throwing aside all pretence
with a sudden burst of tears, ' it's not his
fault ; don't think that of him ; it's them
that drove him to it that should be blamed.
They won't speak to him, not a soul in
the town, though he's as innocent of what
they say as I am.'

They left her at the door of her own
home, and, seeing a man who appeared to

have nothing particular to do, sent him to
take charge of Plague.

Now that the spirit of benevolence was
upon her — and, thank goodness, it is a
spirit as infectious, as exhilarating and as
powerful as any other with opposite
tendencies — Diana abandoned herself to it
with something like a sense of luxury : all
the more readily because she carried in her
breast the sting of Frank's letter, coldly
refusing to see her. Perhaps nothing had
ever pained her more ; yet it had not
turned her against him, she loved him too
dearly for that. She accepted it as part of
her punishment, and became only the
more determined to win his love in return.
And now, with Nessie on her side, she felt
at peace nth all the world.

Your father,' she said, as they entered
the market-place from which the soldiers
had departed, ' may be too old for work,

and Georgie too young ; but if there is
anything they would like to do — anything
for which capital is required, remember,
Nessie, I have far more money than I want,
and it is heartily at their service. They
could jay me interest, you knoAV, so it
would be a good thing for me and might
benefit them.'

^ You are exceedingly good,' said ^S^essie.
And then a sudden thought struck hers
and she turned her hazel eyes on Diana
who, strangely enough, could not meet
their gaze. ' Diana,' she said, gravely,
you sent my mother a hundred pounds.
No, don't deny it. I feel quite, quite sure
you did. Oh ! but it was very wrong of
you.'

Nessie,' said Diana, ' you are talking
nonsense. Good-bye, dear. I want to
speak to the High Bailiff.' And she glided
swiftly away.

As Nessie walked thoughtfully along by
the glacis on her way towards Claddagli
House, she happened to turn her head and
saw Diana laughing with a party of old
gentlemen whom she had just joined. Her
lovely face was as bright as a summer sky ;
it was almost impossible to believe that a
cloud had ever passed over it. But when
she noticed Nessie looking in that direction,
she beckoned and went towards her.

One word more, dear,' she said. ' If
ever you are inclined to think of me as a
frivolous thing, remember you have seen
me serious. If ever you hear of what
people call my wild pranks, remember I
have only one object at heart. You know
what that is. Please, don't condemn the
method until you see the result. Good-bye
again, Nessie.' And back she went to flirt
with the High Bailiff and half-a-dozen
more.

Nessie walked homewards, thinking what
a strange creature Diana was. She did
not understand her new ally and probably
never would ; but, partly for that reason,
she felt strongly attracted towards her, and
trusted her most implicitly. She was also
hopeful that, between them, they would
set Frank on his legs, in the only position
in which he could possibly stand. It was
a happy thought for the girl who loved
him : a thought that brought a smile to
her pale face and filled her eyes with a
soft and tender light, such as may be seen
in the eyes of those who are thinking of
distant yet happy friends. And yet, while
she reproached herself for her selfishness,
she could not but feel a pang at the idea
of an eternal separation from Frank, which,
to her mind, would take a more definite
and irremediable form when husband and
wife were united.

Her reflections were interrupted by
Sammy Kneale, who was standing by the
side of the drawbridge.

'• Heard the latest, Nessie ? ' he inquired.


Queen Anne dead, Sammy ?' she
replied, with a smile. ^ That's your usual
news.'

He looked at her with his crooked nose
at its severest angle. Like most wags,
Sammy was always painfully affected by
the suspicion of a joke directed against
himself.

No,' he said, solemnly, ' something much
more peculiar. Haven't you heard Mrs.
Maddrell's singular story ?'

Not that I know of

Really, though.'

Yes, really.'

Now, that's curious,' said Sammy, who
had assumed an air of great importance

and desired to make the most of his information.


If you don't tell me at once,' said Nessie,
I must go, for I have been away from home
all morning.'

Well, it is just this,' said Sammy, with
resignation ; and then proceeded to tell her
Diana's accusation against herself.

Nessie listened in silence, with the poke-bonnet
bent down so that he should not
see her face. When he had finished, she
said, quietly:

Good-bye, Sammy. I must be going
home now.'

He looked after her with surprise and
disappointment. Though undoubtedly the
best story that he had ever got hold of, it
seemed to have missed fire, a most grievous
thing, which he went into his office to brood
over.

It had not entirely missed fire, however,

for it had disturbed Nessie's belief in her
friend. Nothing more painful could have
happened to her under the circumstances.
She clung desperately to Diana's last words,
^ Don't condemn the method until you
see the result ;' and yet how could this
have anything to do with what had taken
place before the marriage ? Sammy must
have made some grave mistake; he was
always ready to catch at any straw and
magnify it into a beam of extraordinary
dimensions. But he said he had had it
from Diana's own lips ! And if she would
deceive Frank then, what would she not
do at any other time ? Nessie shuddered.
It was a dreadful shock to her simple faith
in those around her. Judging others by
her own standard, she had been surrounded
by a world as pure and innocent as herself;
and now there had fallen into it this lurid
flash to open her eyes. But no, it was

only a mistake of that silly fellow, Sammy
Kneale.

Nessie found two visitors at Claddagh
House. One was Dalrymple, who had
airily informed Mrs. Colquitt that he had
come to pay a morning call. The other
was Ned, who had blundered in shortly
afterwards to make the same announcement.
Both had been received with a certain
scepticism, manifested in a smile on the
ruddy face of their hostess, and each had
shown some surprise at seeing the other.
But, while Dalrymple could scarcely have
been more at ease in his own quarters,
Ned was decidedly nervous and uncomfortable.


At Nessie's entrance he became more
awkward than ever. Was he not going to
ask her to marry him ? And how could
he forget that autumn evening when, in the
prettiest way in the world, she had said to

him, ' Oh, but it would be a strange thing
for us to think of marriage ?' The arguments
which had looked so perfect a short
time ago, now wore a distressingly seedy
aspect. How could he persuade her that
he was pleading, not for himself alone, but
for everybody concerned ? It had seemed
easy enough while he was still at a distance
from it, but now that he had come
close to it, lo ! it rose up before him like a
mighty fence defying the most daring
leap.

Mrs. Colquitt,' said Dalrymple, after a
careful scrutiny of Ned, who was getting
quite desperate and looked it, 'will you
show me the garden?'

In the dead of winter !'

If you please. I can see dozens of
gardens in summer, but not one in winter.
I am anxious to see how cabbages and
potatoes look when they scent frost.'

VOL. II. p

^ But there are none.'

Oh, no, of course, I know that,' said
Dalrymple, in his careless way. ' I was referring
to the place where they grow.
You see, I take a sort of philosophical interest
in potatoes, they are so like ourselves, all
hanging together in families. For that
reason, they are worth studying, though I
would far rather be a mushroom — push my
head above the ground one sunny morning
and look round with delighted surprise
at the beautiful world in which I found
myself, and then be cut down without any
other mushroom caring twopence about
me. If only men and women grew on
stalks — each on his or her own, you know
it would save a lot of trouble. But
won't you come into the garden, Mrs. Col-quite
? We can discuss these problems much
better there.'

Come along, then,' lie replied, with a
pleased yet puzzled look at him.

And so Ned and Nessie were left alone.

p2

CHAPTER X.

Temps.

Nessie, will you marry me ?'

Oh, Ned !' she exclaimed, with a look
of gentle reproof.

'No, don't misunderstand me. I don't
ask you to love me — because — because,'
said Ned, sadly, ' you can't.' He surveyed
his own awkward person as he added :
And I don't wonder at it, I'm so very
different from you in every way. You like
me as a brother and I must be content with
that. Perhaps my great love for you will
be enough for both.'

But, my dear good kind friend, what
did you say only last night ?'

Oh, I remember very well,' answered
Ned, wisely shaking his head. ' I'm not
likely to forget anything I ever said to you,
or you ever said to me. I'm a bad hand
at an explanation, but I'm getting at it by
degrees. Will you marry me for Frank's
sake, Nessie ? There, that's what I mean.'

For Frank's sake !' said Nessie, with a
little shiver.

Yes,' said Ned, taking her hand, ' and I
shall do my best to make you happy, and
I shall be more than happy myself, and all
will be well.'

He meant that he would then be in a
position to help her family without fear of
giving offence. But while wishing to show
he would not neglect them he strongly
objected to anything like an attempt at
bribery, and so slurred it over.

But Frank !'

Don't you see, Nessie, lie is waiting and
waiting, hoping something will turn up to
set him free, and he'll continue to wait as
long as you are unmarried. I explained
it all to him, and he would be glad to see
you happy with some one who can take
proper care of you. At least,' added Ned,
with excessive candour, ' that's what I
understood from his words. If you still
don't care enough about me — oh, Nessie,
can't you love me a little, just a little? —
but, if you can't, we must try to get on
in the old way as best we can.'

Nessie 's chief idea being to help Frank
out of the difficulties for which she assumed
a large share of the responsibility, Ned
had certainly a strong case. But every
inch of standing-room was suddenly cut
from beneath his feet.

You don't know how you distress me,'

she said. ^ You make me tell you what
must pain you. Oh, how can I answer
you softly ? You dear old Ned, a marriage
ought not to be made for the convenience
of friends, no matter how dear they maybe
; it is not a business contract ; there
must be something else.' She paused and
looked at him pitifully.

I understand,' he said, meekly.

He rose and took up his hat.

are you vexed with me, Ned?' she
asked, raising her tear-filled eyes to his
face, which was dark and troubled.

'I should be a brute if I were. You
have set me right, where I was blundering.
If you had given me any other reason, I
should have tried to argue with you, but
now I thank you. Good-bye, Nessie.'

Toby was waiting at the gate, with his
face set towards the town. But Ned,
anxious to escape from curious friends,

started at a rapid pace in the opposite
direction.

We have caught it in earnest now,
Toby said Ned, ' straight from the shoulder
and we can never, never come up to
time again. There was I, stupid old Ned
Chris tore, trying to tempt the sweetest
and purest and dearest girl in the world —
but she resisted me, for which I love her
more than ever — and it's all over. Height,
Toby ! What will they say at home ?'

Taking the shore road, Ned went past a
row of cottages facing the sea, with here
and there a fisherman smoking in his doorway.
But at the top of Hangoo Hill, seeing
somebody coming, he turned into the little
field enclosing the semi-circular mound on
which stands the old grey ruin. Even
then the crumbling walls were on the very
edge of the cliff, which is composed of soft
earth descending almost perpendicularly

to the singly beach. There is never a fall
of rain but carries some of it away, and
never a high tide but the hungry sea takes
a great bite at the spot where William Done
met a traitor's death.

Not wishing to be seen, Ned was about
to hide within the ruin, when his attention
was arrested by what struck him as a
singular phenomenon. It was a boot, heel
uppermost and sole pointing seawards, on
the face of the cliff. What prevented its
falling? The heavy part being completely
in the air, it seemed able to preserve its
equilibrium in defiance of all natural laws.
After studying it for a few moments, Ned
threw a pebble at it, and, though he missed
it, he felt sure that it moved. Toby was
clearly of the same opinion, for he entered
a loud protest against this extravagant
conduct of a piece of leather.

As master and dog peered down in

amazement, all doubt was set at rest.
After a violent agitation of the boot, a leg
came into view ; then another boot and
another leg ; then a wizened little body;
and finally a bald head with a patch of
white hair over each ear. When the baldhead
had been decently covered with a hat
and the feet firmly planted in the earth, a
wrinkled old face looked up inquiringly and
somewhat fearfully.

Mr. Colquitt !' exclaimed Ned.

Oh, it's only you, Ned,' he said ; and
began to scramble up the cliff.

It appeared that he had crawled out of
an old drain, which was invisible from the
spot where Ned had stood. He carried a
small trowel in one hand and a long thin
brownish object in the other ; and, when he
arrived at the top, he flourished the latter
triumphantly at Ned.

What is it ?' asked Ned.

A human femur.'

Oh !' said Ned, falling back a bit.

It can't very well have belonged to
William Done,' said Mr. Colquitt, with
regret, ^ for he was buried at Maleww, but I
don't see why I shouldn't label it as his.
Do you?'

Well, yes. If it's not his, it's not his.'

But a relic must have some name
attached to it, the bigger the better. I
must think it over. There have been a good
many persons buried here at one time or
another most of them executed for some
political offence.'

You have been studying Manx history,
Mr. Colquitt.'

No ; Dalrymple has been telling me all
about it. What a capital fellow he is, to
be sure ! He says Hangoo Hill is crammed
full of bones — a grand place to dig about in.
So I trotted up here this morning, and this,

you see,' said Mr. Colquitt, proudly holding
up his prize, ' is the first result, the femur
of a malefactor !'

You won't show it to your wife T inquired
Ned, with some alarm.

Mr. Colquitt winked.

It would be as well, thought Ned, to give
Dalrymple a friendly warning. With the
best possible intentions, here he was unwittingly
encouraging the husband to do
what would offend the wife. Indeed, he
seemed to have an unfortunate knack of
setting the two by the ears. The toad
incident had led to no end of wrangling,
and something of the sort was always
cropping up. No one could have been
more surprised at the effects of his good-nature
than Dalrymple himself; yet as
surely as he attempted to please Mr. Colquitt,
whose tastes invariably clashed with those
of his wife, he provoked disaster. A little

kind advice would remedy all this. When
his mistake was pointed out to him, he
would exercise more discretion. Ned,
remembering how he was received by his
father at night, felt that in this way he
could do something towards lightening
Nessie's burden before her home became
intolerable.

He returned with Mr. Colquitt as far as
the gate of Claddagh House, when he
joined Dalrymple who was just coming out.
Mrs. Colquitt and Mona were also standing
there. The former had been pressing her
visitor to stay to lunch, and it was not
until he saw the advancing couple that he
actually declined ; greatly to the relief of
Mona, who knew that the larder contained
nothing but some scraggy mutton.

Dalrymple's first look at his companion,
as they walked on side by side, was painfully
searching. It brought Ned back to

Ms own trouble just as if lie had been led
by bit and bridle. The blood rushed to
his face, his eyes fell, his hands became a
grievous annoyance, and the feeling that
he was, and could not help, betraying his
secret, added greatly to his embarrassment.
After noting these symptoms, Dalrymple
suddenly withdrew his gaze and produced
his snuff-box, from which he helped
himself so largely as to bring on a fit of
sneezing.

It was highly amusing to watch Toby at
this juncture. Instead of following at his
master s heels, he had taken to the middle
of the road, where he walked along by himself.
Whether or not there is a doggy
proverb to the effect that 'birds of a
feather flock together,' he evidently did
not wish to appear connected with that
couple over the way ; and yet could not
resist a sidelong glance at them occasionally.

But, when Dalrymple sneezed, he
so far forgot himself as to make a flank
movement in case this extraordinary
explosion should be the preliminary to an
attack on Ned. Perceiving his mistake,
he attentively regarded a stone as if that
had been the cause of his digression ; and
walked on again as before.

Well,' said Dalrymple, ' have you done
what I advised ?'

'Yes,' answered Ned, too honest to
equivocate ; ' it's no use.'

You can't mean that you've been
refused !'

I do indeed.'

Refused ! Good gracious ! who would
have thought it? My dear fellow, I can't
tell you how sorry I am for you.'

But,' interrupted Ned, who shrank —
he scarcely knew why — from the other's
sympathy in this matter, ' I wish to speak

of something else now.' After apologising
for venturing to offer advice, he went on to
caution Dalrymple about his behaviour
towards Mr. and Mrs. Colquitt. ' You're
almost the only friend left to them,' he
said, in conclusion, ' and it's very good
of you to be so often there when they
would be lonely without somebody to talk
to. But if you tried to get Mr. Colquitt
to leave his bones and beetles and insects
alone, instead of helping him to get fresh
ones, I think it would be better. You
don't mind me saying so, do you ? You
see, I know the family better than you do,
for I've been acquainted with them all my
life, and I'm only telling you what I should
have liked to be told myself had I been in
your place.'

Dalrymple looked at Ned with rather a
puzzled air. He appeared doubtful as to
whether his companion was in earnest or

merely playing a part. In spite of his
humble opinion of Ned, the latter hypothesis
seemed not unlikely to the man who
had spent his life in acting, and for a
moment his habitual listlessness gave way
to admiration. But, as he watched and
listened, the conviction grew upon him
that every word was spoken with perfect
sincerity, and, yielding to an uncontrolable
impulse, he burst out laughing.

Mr. Colquitt is very funny,' he said in
explanation to Ned, who was naturally
astonished. ' Upon my word, he's very
funny. I little thought, when I first came
to the island, that I should find so much
genuine amusement here. But I'll remember
what you say, and I thank you for
having said it, for it was a most friendly
thing to do. You shall have no occasion
to blame me in the future ; I'll be wonderfully
discreet. What do you say to a raid

VOL. ir. Q

on Claddagh House to carry oiF all the
butterflies ?'

No,' said Ned, gravely, ' I don't think
that would do at all. Hallo, Frank !'

But Frank who was standing at his office
door, made no answer : he merely stared
before him as if he did not see the couple who
were passing. Dalrymple's lip curled ; he
and Frank had never spoken to one another
since the night of Jacob's fish dinner.

Your friend,' he said, carelessly, ' seems
rather out of sorts.'

Excuse me, will you, Dalrymple ?' said
Ned, and hurried back.

When Frank saw him approaching, he
entered his office and closed the door.
Pained beyond measure, Ned followed
and found him sitting at the table, from
which he scarcely even looked up.

'■ Is there anything the matter, Frank ?'
asked Ned, anxiously.

'Not that I know of,' coldly replied
Frank.

But — aren't you offended about something?'


Offended ! Oh dear, no.'

Ned considered. After a pause he tried
this bait :

I have something important to tell
you.'

Indeed !' said Frank, turning over the
pages of a book. ' Why don't you go after
your new friend ?'

But he's a thoroughly good fellow,' said
Ned, panting a little from the effects of the
unexpected blow, ' when you come to know
him. He is indeed, Frank, I assure
you. We have all been deceived about
him.'

And you,' said Frank, scornfully, ' have
come to set us all right.'

It would be difficult to say whether

q2

bewilderment or distress was the more-plainly
written on Ned's face. Could this
be Frank, the kind friend who had always
been so lenient to his faults ? What had
caused this painful change? Merely a
walk with Dalrymple ? That would be a
strange and indeed an incredible thing.
And yet, if it had nothing to do with the
grievance, why had it been thrust in his
teeth ?

But, Frank, don't judge him harshly.
I'm quite sure he would gladly forget his
misunderstanding with you. Will you
allow me to put in a word ?'

Thank you, no.

^ He is a good friend to the Colquitts, a
good friend to Nessie, and therefore to you
and me. Why, he even told me it would
be a good thing for all if I were married to
her.'

Indeed !' said Frank.

His face had suddenly become so black
that Ned, dimly perceiving the real
grievance lay here, hastened to add :

And I have asked her — and she has
refused me — and it's all over, Frank.'

As he had foreseen

You wrong him, Frank ; you do, indeed.
You never saw a man more surprised than
he was when I told him.'

Great heavens !' cried Frank, springing
passionately to his feet. ' And you make
this man the confidant of your private conversations
with Nessie ! You bring him
into such close relationship with her as
that ! Are you mad, Ned ? or, do you
mean to insult her?'

Ned looked at Frank in silent dismay.
After a pause he said, sadly:

I won't answer your questions at
present, Frank j tomorrow, perhaps, we
shall both be better able to do justice

to the subject.' And he left the office.

As regards matter of fact, Frank was
right and Ned was wrong ; yet Frank was
afterwards ashamed of himself, while Ned
was ashamed of his friend. Ned, however,
raked up all manner of excuses for him,
and there was no lack of them ready to his
hand, Frank's position being such as
would sour the temper of most men.

If the incident had stopped here no
o^reat harm would have been done, but it
was the beginning of a breach between the
two friends which widened daily, and, as
Ned was deeply grieved to see, tended
more effectually to isolate the Colquitts.
As he walked homewards to tell his father
and mother of his lamentable failure, he
felt sure this would be the case. It seemed
to him that everything was going wrong,
and that all his efforts to mend matters
only made them worse.

Though the belief of a good man in the
goodness of the world be a grievous error,
it is surely better to look through that
man's glasses than through those of the
dyspeptic cynic who walks from Dan to
Beersheba and, to the distress of all he
meets, cries : ' All's barren.' We see
men's souls, not as they are, but as reflected
in our own ; he, therefore, that sweepingly
condemns others, condemns himself,
a mirror that shows none but ugly images
being obviously at fault. While Ned was
greatly mistaken about his new friend, his
view was one that many with keener sight
might envy. Moreover, it tended to verify
itself, for it could not but react upon
Dalrymple, who was as little qualified by
nature to be a thoroughly bad man as he
was qualified to be a thoroughly good one.

When deserted by Ned, he went back to
his quarters in the barracks, where he

found Captain Nugent smoking and reading
in front of the fire. He took the easy-chair
opposite.

Nugent,' he said, ' when your opponent
holds a strong hand of trumps, what do you
do?'

Force him,' replied Nugent, with some
surprise.

In other words, make him play his
"trumps prematurely, so that you may
canter in alone at the finish ?'

Just so.'

^s whist— SnufF? No. Then I'll help
myself. Is whist an exponent of Christian
principles ?'

Well,' laughed Nugent, ' it demonstrates
more truths than many a sermon.'

Legitimate truths ?'
eyes, surely.'

I'm glad to hear it,' said Dalrymple
with a yawn. He lay back in his chair

and folded his arms as if there was nothing
more to be said.

Nugent slowly blew a cloud of smoke
and looked through it curiously. As his
friend still remained silent, he fell to
inspecting the ash of his cigar, then took
up his book, and finally laid it down
again.

'You odd fellow,' he said, 'what are you
driving at ? Have you been playing whist
in the morning ?'

Yes, with Ned Christorey.'

'Ah!'

Forced him to propose.'

When you felt sure he would be
refused ?'

Precisely. And he has been refused
and now I stand alone. Will you,' asked
Dalrymple, with a smile which he hurriedly
transferred from his friend to the fire,
^ be my best man ?'

He did not appear very well satisfied
with himself; and Nugent, after regarding
him in silence for a moment or two, went
on with his reading.

Dalrymple had got into this dilemma.
Owing to an antipathy between himself
and Frank, he had taken a morbid pleasure
in irritating the latter. In order to
gratify it, he had attempted to oust Frank
from Nessie's favour and take his place.
But when a separation was actually effected
by an accident, so far as he was concerned
he found himself unable to retreat to his
original position as he had intended, for he
had fallen in love with the girl with whom
he had thought he was only amusing himself
The truth came upon him as a surprise
; he made a faint struggle against it
at first, and so tightened his bonds. By
itself it would have been no great misfortune,
though he had hitherto been very

careful to keep clear of any entanglement
of the sort. But the rival whom he had
disliked had been replaced by another
whom he had come to like and respect, and
who liked, and, as he admitted with a twinge
respected him in return ; so he was
compelled either to abandon the object
upon which his heart was set or else to
plot and scheme against an honest, simple,
good-hearted fellow like Ned Christorey,
It was not without a sense of humiliation
that he had adopted the latter
alternative. Anxious to secure himself,
he endeavoured to ignore Ned, and pretended
that he was really working in Nessie's
interests against Frank.

You see, Nugent,' he said, after lengthy
silence, ' I thought it better to get Christorey
out of the way, because he was never
really in the hunt. The choleric islander
has taken to playing the dog in the manger,

and it is with him that matters must be
settled.'

'How?'

Well, he must be driven to declare himself.
When people see that he is binding
Miss Nessie down to a life of solitary
misery, he will be forced to hide his
diminished head.'

As a friend,' said Nugent, quietly, ' I
should advise you to leave Maddrell alone.
He is not a fellow to be trifled with.'

Dalrymple laughed.

He has often heard my opinion of him,'
he said, 'and of the Manx generally.
Perhaps, he would like to see what was
said of the island a couple of centuries ago.
I copied this,' added he, producing a slip of
paper and handing it to Nugent, ' out of a
scrap-book at the Colquitts, and I intend
to send it to the choleric islander with my

compliments. What do you think of it?'
Nugent read as follows :

When Satiate tryed his arts in vaine,
Ye worship of ye Lorde toe gaine,
Ye bird, he said, and all be thine,
Except ane space, that maun be mine :
Though bare it is, and scarce a span.
By mortals called ye Isle of Mann,
This is a place I cannot spare,
For all my choicest friends are there.'

CHAPTER XL

- A STRANGE ROAD TO A DANCE.

One of the most influential men in the
town was Mr. Patterson, H.K. and Cap.
(Member of the House of Keys, and Captain
of the Parish). He had a wife and two
daughters, Ada and Jennie, and lived at
Scarlettt, in an old-fashioned house with
grassy terraces looking upon the bay,
trees on either side, and a good garden
behind. It was approached by the road
which skirted the beach and dropped
suddenly upon it, there being no protecting

wall as in front of Clacldagli House.
It was a pleasant place in summer when
the tide was high, but a very desolate place
in winter when the wail of the sea came
across a long bleak stretch of rocks and the
wind went by like the blast of a mighty
trumpet.

On Christmas Eve there was to be a
dance at the Wattersons.' All their
acquaintances were invited with the exception
of the Colquitts, for whom Jennie,
a mischievous little elf, once Nessie's particular
friend, had pleaded hard, but in
vain. Mrs. Sherwood not being very well,
as was her custom during the cold months,
Diana declined the invitation and said so
publicly ; where upon Frank, urged by his
uncle, accepted.

Now, while there cannot be a more artful
creature than a woman in love, the
difficulties by which Diana was surrounded

were peculiarly suited to calling forth all
her resources. By hook or by crook she
had determined to meet Frank face to face,
and then if she could not bring him under
her sway, Averted to her as he was, she
was not what she thought herself to be.
So she had declined the invitation in the
hope that Frank might accept ; and when
she heard that he had accepted, she went
privately to Mrs. Patterson and said she
had changed her mind. Her next proceeding
will be readily guessed. She
devised a costume which would compel
admiration from every man present and
set every woman gnashing her teeth in
despair.

When Christmas Eve arrived, there was
a great bustle in the town. Conveyances
of every sort went flashing through the
market-place, many returning to fetch one
party after another; sedan-chairs jogged

along more slowly : and more slowly still
prim old dames picking their way in patterns,
their maids dangling lanterns in front.
Everybody seemed to be going in the
direction of Scarlettt ; for, besides the guests,
there Alas a motley throng to see the fine
dresses of the ladies as they entered the
house.

Though it was a very dark night with a
keen breeze, Diana had decided to walk ;
for a sufficient reason — to get a becoming
colour into her cheeks which had been
going very pale. Moreover, she had to
walk alone, for she had given her servants
leave to attend the Oil Verres at Maleww, a
late service after the conclusion of which
it was customary for ancient men to getup
one by one and sing carols, like
superannuated gamecocks trying to crow
one another down, and for maidens to pelt
their lovers with handfuls of parched peas.

VOL. II. R

However, Diana was not the sort of
woman to need an escort ; lie was quite
free from superstition, and lead never yet
met the living thing that could make her
quake.

Punctuality is said to be a feminine
failing. This may be so, but it is often the
result of policy. How can an effective
^-costume be better displayed than by the
late arrival of its wearer and the consequent
disturbance of the more punctual guests ?
Besides, it is not so easy to calculate to a
minute how long it will take to arrange
this effective costume. A dress cannot be
shovelled on like a swallow-tail coat ; there
are many little touches which can only be
done at the last moment. And Diana was
not likely to omit any of them this
evening.

Still, she had finished them all, smiled
with satisfaction at the lovely woman in

the lovely setting who smiled back at her
from the mirror, returned to the drawing-room
to be praised by her mother, and sat
there for a long time before she thought of
starting. It would not do, she told herself,
to close the door of the cage until she could
feel reasonably sure that the bird was
inside ; if she were too hasty, she would
only scare it away. So she waited until
the last conveyance had returned and the
last sound died away ; then she wrapped
herself up in her cloak and hood, and,
carrying a lantern and a bag containing
her white satin shoes and other necessaries,
set out for her lonely walk through the
darkness. Surely Frank ought to be
flattered when he heard of it !

Diana who had only about a 
to go, had nearly reached her destination
when she recollected her bouquet.
Though it had been continually in her

r2

thoughts all day, she had left it behind on
the drawing-room table. It was a most
vexatious thing, for she had spent a great
deal of trouble in getting the flowers and
had set aside some of the best for Frank.
With characteristic courage, she turned
back to fetch them. But, before she had
gone half way, an unfortunate accident
befell her : she dropped her lantern, and,
the light being extinguished, she was left
in pitch darkness.

Nothing daunted, she continued her walk
towards the town, which was perhaps the
best course open to her. She had passed
through a short narrow street leading out
of the market-place by the corner of St.
Mary's Chapel, and at the first of these
cottages she could get her lantern relighted.
Behind, she could see a blaze of light
coming from the house where the guests
were already assembled ; in front, an

occasional flicker from the lighthouse on
the pier; and on her right hand, a shadowy
white line in the distance where the
breakers were falling with a sullen roar
upon the rocks. But these were mere
clefts in a darkness so impenetrable that it
enclosed her like a wall ; and yet she
hurried through it without hesitation,
anxious only to get her bouquet and arrive
at the dance as soon as possible.

But, of a sudden, her heart gave a wild
throb, for she felt herself shooting headlong
through the air — descending like
lightning into some black gulf which had
opened before her. For a moment all her
sensations were suspended, and then with
a painful crash they started into activity
again. When she could in some measure
collect her ideas, she found herself lying
on the beach. It was some time before
she had enough energy to get up. She

lay there too stunned to move, aching
from head to foot, listening to the dull
thunder of the waves and the rustle of the
breeze as it stirred the seaweed on the
rocks around.

When at length she rose, she thought
more of her dress than of herself Fortunately,
she reflected, it was protected by
a thick cloak and so might be uninjured,
though no doubt sadly crumpled. She
quite forgot that but for this same protection
she might have been much more
seriously hurt than she was. Gloves had
saved her hands, and her hands, With the
precious bag which they had never
relinquished, had saved her face ; but how,
she did not pause to think and could never
afterwards tell. The lantern was completely
shattered, yet in some wonderful way
she had escaped with nothing worse than a
few bruises.

Now that she could survey the matter
more calmly, Diana was angry rather than
frightened. It roused in her a fierce
determination to surmount the obstacles
that were strewn in her path. Though
the Fates themselves were fighting against
her, she would meet the man she loved.
She would go to this dance — nothing on
earth should prevent her — and she would
make him proud of her, if not because she
was beautiful, at least because she was the
best dressed woman there.

Arrived at this decision, she set about
carrying it into effect. Finding it impossible
to clamber back into the road, she
began to grope her way along the beach ;
an exceedingly difficult task at night, for
the limestone layers were broken ofi* so as
to form an irregular series of steps covered
with slippery seaweed and patches of loose
stones. With all her care she had more

than one tumble, though none nearly so
bad as the first.

After a time she came to a great black
object which made her hesitate. It lay
quite still and motionless — crouching, it
almost seemed — and, even if it were not
some marine monster, it certainly had an
uncanny look. But, resolutely conquering
her weakness, Diana advanced and, not
without a tremor, laid her hand upon it.
It was merely a boat lying keel uppermost.
At this discovery she laughed. It was
undoubtedly a great relief to have some
excuse for using her voice ; but how strange
that laughter sounded on the desolate shore
with the sea sending back its sullen answer
through the darkness !

Feeling her way round the boat, Diana
went on again until she arrived at a much
more formidable obstacle — a black gulf on
the very brink of which she was standing

when lie perceived it. It had once been
used as a sawpit, and, though of considerable
depth, was only five or six feet in
breadth. At the present time, there is nota
trace of it left ; indeed, all that part of
the coast has been much altered.

The road prevented Diana's passing atone
end, and a confusion of rocks and sea
prevented her passing at the other. Her
progress seemed to have come to a full stop.
However a resolute and fearless woman is
not easily beaten, and though many considered
Diana merely a frivolous coquette,
she had more than once proved that she
was made of very different fibre, but
never more conclusively than she did
now.

After listening in vain for the sound of
a footstep, she tested the edges of the pit,
and, finding them firm, decided to jump
it, or, at least, to try. Though six feet can

scarcely be called a leap for an athletic
young man, it may be doubted whether
many encumbered by cloak and ball-dress
would care to undertake it in broad daylight
; but six feet into black space is quite
another matter — so much has to be taken
upon trust that even the athletic young
man might be excused for shirking it.
However, it was the only way by which
Diana could gain her end, and in sheer
desperation she prepared to make the
attempt.

Though she had already pinned up her
skirts, she thought it better to go a little
further in the same direction. Half-a-dozen
yards of dry level rock gave her
plenty of room for a run, and the task of
investigating it kept up her spirits. When
all her preparations were completed, she
hesitated for the first time : stood at her
post panting a little, with her hands clasped

and her head thrown back in a listening:

o

attitude, hoping that somebody might
come to her assistance after all.

AVhat would those merry dancers have
thought of her had they seen her now?
What did she think of herself, as there
arose before her the picture of a beautiful
woman entering a crowded ball-room,
every eye noticing how superbly she was
dressed, and then a rush of admirers to
overwhelm her with compliments, which, if
sweet in themselves, would be far, far
sweeter if they brought her nearer her
object ? How different from the present
reality ! Here was a desperate woman
standing on a bleak and lonely shore, preparing
to take a wild leap in the dark ! Was
it not something like that other leap — the
leap into married life with a man who loved
her not ? This thought gave a new significance
to her undertaking: for, as we

have already seen, she had a way of looking
for some sign in reference to the future,
and, it must be added, of rejecting it if
unsatisfactory.

With sudden energy she grasped her
bag more tightly — the broken lantern had
been discarded — and started forward at a
run. At first she shut her eyes, but soon
opened them again, her greatest fear being
of falling into the pit without seeing it.
But as she approached she caught its outline,
and a brief weakness overpowered her.
She faltered ; almost stopped ; then rushed
at it ; and, planting her foot firmly on the
brink, sprang forward into the night.

It was, Diana used to say, a horrible
sensation flying through the darkness,
wondering what was going to happen next ;
but it may be doubted whether she had
time to think at all until it was all over.
She alighted a considerable distance beyond

the further edge of the pit, and, though she
stumbled backwards, managed to struggle
to her feet without mishap.

It was with a strange sense of elation
that, after pausing to regain her breath,,
she resumed her scramble along the rocks.
She was conquering her difficulties bravely,
and by so doing seemed to be clearing the
path towards the goal on which she had
set her heart. This last success was full of
promise for the future. She made light of
an occasional slip now, and the way
became easier as she went on. But there
was yet another adventure awaiting her.

She had reached the end of the street
and was on the point of trying to scramble
into it near an old well, when a groan close
by brought her to an involuntary halt.
As she stood there listening, startled at
the unexpected sound, she heard it again
and felt sure it proceeded from somebody

in pain. After some groping about, she
discovered a man who appeared to have
fallen, like herself, upon the beach. His
speech was incoherent and his name was
Plague, which will sufficiently explain his
position and manner of reaching it.
Whether or not he was badly injured she
would not ascertain, but one thing was
certain — she must fetch assistance.

Strangely enough, though Plague had
sunk to very nearly the lowest level of
humanity, he seemed to Diana to be a
slight link between herself and Frank.
While Frank had defended him at the trial
and perhaps saved his life, she had tried to
guard him from moral ruin, and, after
befriending him on another occasion, had
now perhaps also saved his life. Was
there not design in all this ? Might it not
be a means to some end as yet unrevealed
to her ? Though Diana would hardly have

liked to confess it, site had some such idea
in her head.

Seeing a cottage door opposite ajar, and
hearing loud voices within, she called
out.

The door was flung open ; and, as a flood of
light poured out upon the darkness, there
rushed forth a troop of the most extraordinary
creatures, most of them carrying
swords in their hands, and all capering
about and shouting. It was as if the
inmates of a lunatic asylum had been turned
loose after a fancy-dress ball. One was
Prince Valentine of Turkey ; another was
St. George of England who had just been
having a bloodthirsty encounter with the
Prince; another was the King of Egypt
who had interposed as mediator ; another
was the doctor who had bound up the
wounds of the defeated hero and afterwards
gone round with the hat — a very professional

thing to do ; another was Sambo
a nigger who had improved the occasion
with a few jokes; and there were several
more whose functions were limited to looking
on. All were arrayed in grotesque
costumes made of calico and decorated with
strips of coloured paper, tinsel, and ribbons;
and their hats were about three feet high
and pointed — rather cumbrous headgear
for warriors. They were, in fact, the
Whitebo3^s, and had been enacting from
house to house their old Christmas play, a
version of ' St. George and the Dragon.'

Picture this strange company carrying
the pitiable creature into the cottage, with
Diana in her cloak and hood in attendance!
Plague, it appeared, was less hurt than
incapable. So she requested them to take
every care of him and to send for Dr.
Mylworry if necessary. She would be
responsible for any expense, she said, and,

if they called at her house in the morning,
lie would reward them for their trouble.
At this speech the King of Egypt rejoiced
exceedingly and called for three lusty
cheers, which were given by all the kings
and princes present amid a general raising
of lofty hats. And so Diana went on her
way.

When she got home she never said a word
about what had happened, but merely
explained that she had forgotten her
bouquet. Another disaster was impossible,
she told herself; in any case there was no
need to alarm her mother, who was comfortably
nursing her ailments and her
Indian finery by the fire-side. Safe in her
own room, she made a careful examination
of her dress, and found the damage to be
wonderfully slight. A few minutes sufficed
to do all that was necessary. Then, provided
with a fresh lantern, she again started

VOL. I[. s

for the Wattersons', where she arrived
without any further accident.

It was not until the following morning
that Diana felt any ill-effects from her
many tumbles ; she could scarcely walk
then, she was so stiff. But this evening
as she passed through the hall and heard
the music floating down to her, she was
in a wild whirl of excitement, as if she
had been a girl going to her first ball.
This alone would have been sufficient to
carry her through the programme which
she had prepared. She did not miss a
single dance after her arrival, and her
partners said she had never danced better,
had never been in higher spirits, and never
appeared to greater advantage.

A square dance having just been concluded
when she ascended to the ball-room,
a few couples were pacing to and fro,
others were sitting down, and many were

loitering about the stairs which were
indifferently lighted. There were many
pretty girls there ; but mere prettiness
could not hold a candle to Diana's surpassing
beauty. As she proceeded, she
drew all others after her like the luminous
trail that follows the brilliant meteor.
Curious to see how she Avould look beneath
the glare of the lamps and candles, they
were unconscious of the praise they were
silently bestowing upon her, and the
men were even more pronounced in their
admiration.

As she stood in the doorway, with the
light falling full upon her graceful figure
and beautiful dress, a smile on her lovely
face tinted by her exertions, there fell a
silence upon all present. Then, as she
had anticipated, there was a rush of
partners eager to dance with her. She had
soft words for everyone, but her eyes kept

s2

wandering beyond them. Where was
Frank for whom she had undertaken it all?
She could not see him.

CHAPTER XII.

Christmas DAY.

On Christmas morning a huge scroll,
worked in ivy leaves and placed over the
Communion-table in St. Mary's, announced
the erlad tidings of ' Peace on earth.'
This was the subject of an eloquent sermon
delivered, from a perfect bower at the top
of the triple goblet, by the old chaplain,
who addressed his hearers so directly as to
unsettle many for the rest of the day. It
was also implied in the general handshaking
and exchange of good wishes after

the service. Yet how stood the facts ?
Black Deborah's announcement about the
Millennium appeared scarcely less trustworthy.


Before descending to particulars, let us
hast take a general survey of the scene,
though observation from a sitting posture
was beset by many difficulties at Christmas.
Heavy festoons of greenery, hanging down
from the surrounding gallery, partly concealed
those beneath it ; immense arches
erected at intervals along the aisle formed
a still worse obstruction ; but neither could
be compared with the holly branches which
grew out of the high backs of every pew.
It was like sitting in a shrubbery. Sometimes
through the prickly fence of brilliant
green studded with red berries, there
would peep a chubby little face with long
curls and eyes wide-open with wondering
awe ; and then perhaps it would see

another face it knew, and beam with sudden
delight, only to turn penitently to its
mother who was shaking a warning finger.
This was one of the many sights in the
church, and perhaps the prettiest.

The windows afforded an illustration of
the three degrees of comparison. If you
looked out on one side, you saw the fire-lit
houses around the market-place ; if you
looked out at the back, you saw the most
miserable street in the town — that along
which Diana had passed on the previous
night ; and if you looked on the other side,
you saw the cheerless beach, and, away in
the distance a ship tossing on a stormy
sea.

But there was no need to go outside for
contrasts. Here, in his blue-cushioned
pew, slept Dr. Myl worry, dreaming of his
greyhounds and chasing anew that artful
old hare which had given him the slip near

the Creggans ; there, on scarlet cushions,
sat the High Bailiff, nodding by his fireside,
and taking a reassuring pinch of
snuff* when he thought the sermon rather
too pointed; and yonder, on the bare
benches at the back shivered the poor
people, thinking less of the sermon than
of the good dinner which those comfortable
slumberers had provided for them.
Not that this difference was any discredit
to the clerical authorities, or indeed to
anybody in particular ; it was solely the
result of the system, the pews being the
private property of individuals, and, as
such, being sold by auction, rented, leased,
and furnished as the tastes of their proprietors
might ordain. The tastes of the
poor are simple : they take what they can
get, and are thankful. Hence, they sat on
hard boards and worshipped with cold
fingers, but with warm hearts very often.

It was a pleasant sight to see those dim
old eyes brighten as the leathery clerk, nth
a sort of hovering note before he pounced
upon the proper key, led off the singing.
When any of the well-known Christmas
hymns were sung, they seemed to be
transported to another world, all their
troubles being forgotten for the moment.
It was as if they saw the gates ajar and got
a brief glimpse of the strange and beautiful
land within, where they would soon be
happy all day long, singing the same old
hymns, and, when they got tired, sitting in
easy chairs like the High Bailiff. Their
religion was a wonderful mixture, their
heaven being but a glorified Castletown,
constructed on a principle they made no
attempt to understand, but were content to
gaze at with awe-filled eyes from a distance.
One old woman, bent double with rheumatism
and nearly as deaf as a post, afterwards

expressed lier feelings by saying that
it lead done her ^ a power o' good.' No
doubt, she had caught a faint murmur now
and again, and who can say what bright
vistas were thus opened to her ! After all,
in these days of elaborate ritual and
advanced knowledge, are we very much
wiser and happier ?

The State pew at the end of the gallery
was occupied by the Lieutenant-governor
and his family ; the officers in uniform were
on his left ; behind was a line of soldiers
extending half-way along on either hand.

When the soldiers rose, Bobby Beg was
seen to be in his usual place, next the last
man in the line. Bobby Beg had a fine
military ardour. When the company was
being manoeuvred, he was always present
if possible, and when it went out marching,
he was sure to be in attendance, keeping
perfect step, With his head up, chest thrown

out, arms ri wetted to his sides — every bit
the soldier, but for his carries, shaggy
brimless top-hat, and many coats which
Avere all pockets and big buttons. And
now, as he stood up in church, his attitude
was far more military than that of the men
by his side. What strange idea had Bobby
Beo; o;ot into his muddled head ? Was it
merely the force of imitation ? or, did he
really . fancy himself a scarlet-coated
warrior? or did he think he might betaken
for one? Whatever the cause, he
looked the happiest person there. But
when the singing commenced, he grew so
excited that he chimed in with a verse or
two of his interminable song about the
king and himself, and then the surly
old sexton came up and put him out.
Poor Bobby Beg! that quite spoilt the
flavour of his Christmas dinner. He ever
afterwards declared that the sexton, when

he had 'collected' from the gallery and was
on his way downstairs with the box, was in
the habit of extracting the silver.

Bobby Beg, you see, could be quite as
spiteful as Black Deborah, whose majestic
figure clad as usual in the black mantle
was a prominent feature in the centre of
the church. Her tendencies being religious,
she was a regular attendant at St. Mary's,
though she did not think Mr. Hudson as
orthodox as he might be. For example,
she used to make certain ' Passover cakes,'
and offer them for sale at an exorbitant
price, and as he would not instruct his congregation
that the purchase of these cakes
was necessary to their salvation, she
denounced him, on the authority of the
Prophet Elijah, as an impostor, a wolf in
sheep's clothing, and several other things.
One other instance. She had a small
printing-press which she worked herself

By its means, she turned out the most
extraordinary leaflets, invariably signed :
Deborah the Prophetess, Isle of Man,
otherwise Woman,' so stoutly did she uphold
her sex. In one of them she minutely
described an interview with Jacob who had
met her in Maleww churchyard in his shirt
sleeves and told her he was a Manxman.
But the leaflets, which were also for sale,
fared no better than the cakes ; much to
her disgust, Mr. Hudson refused to recommend
them as church literature. It was
therefore rather as a spy that Black Deborah
attended St. Mary's.

Notwithstanding the spasmodic festivities
of the last few weeks — or perhaps partly inconsequence
of them — the majority of the
congregation laboured under a sense of
oppression. They could not but compare
other Christmas Days with this one, on
which many a family, then in comfortable

circumstances, was now struggling with
poverty. The resources of all, indeed, had
been heavily taxed, for those who had not
suffered by the bank failure had contributed
to help those who had. Besides
this, they had a painful suspicion that their
town harboured a murderer ; how otherwise
was Macdonald's death to be explained ?
And finally, there was the disagreeable
affair in connection with Frank and his wife,
which had split up a peaceful community
into two factions.

While the toAvn was divided against
itself, it Alas unfortunately the same with
several families, notably the Colquitts.
Mrs. Colquitt, as we have seen, was incessantly
nagging at her husband, and,
goaded by poverty, had lately been leading
him a very unpleasant life, her stories of
sudden death having assumed a positively
ghastly hue. Mona, wishing to settle

matters in her own way, had come into
collision with her mother and sister. And
Nessie, anxious to please everybody, found
the task beyond her powers, harassed as
she was not only by her own troubles and
theirs, but also by the doubt which Sammy
Kneale had raised in her mind about Diana.
Moreover, she had insisted upon sending
back the hundred pounds, though without
saying from whom it had come, and this
was another grievance.

In the Christorey family, also, matters
were not running very smoothly. Though
Mrs. Christorey had nothing but pity for
the son whom Nessie would not marry,
the major, who could by the light of events
read something of Dalrymple's design, was
highly indignant. Starting on the assumption
that he had been possessed of this
knowledge from the very commencement, he
was uncommonly sarcastic with Ned for not

having seen a thing so absurdly obvious ,-
and, as Ned even then refused to credit it,
stormed like a trooper, and went oiF to
ease his mind by a wholesale distribution
of Christmas presents among his tenants.
Ned's troubles, however, did not end here ;
for, Frank still continuing in the same unreasonable
mood, there Alas cause to fear
that the breach might become permanent.

Thus the occupants of two pews, at any
rate, the Christoreys and the Colquitts,
were sadly out of harmony with the
occasion.

Diana exerted a more distracting influence
than ever, her entrance having been
waited for with the greatest interest. The
Whiteboys had related how, amazed at the
sight of a beautiful face looking at them
from the darkness, and wondering whether
Ben Varrey had actually come to them
from her coral halls beneath the sea, they

had timidly gone down to the beach and
found Diana standing by the prostrate
figure of a man, to wit, Plague ; to which
had been added an account of finding her
broken lantern on the far side of the saw-pit.
On this foundation a good many
wonderful stories had been raised, and
there was a general anxiety to see the
heroine of them. But the curious were
doomed to disappointment, Diana being
too stiff and sore and miserable to leave
the house. More discouraged than she had
ever been before, she doubted for the first
time whether she had not set her heart on
the attainment of an object which was
beyond her reach.

The reader is really entitled to an apology
for being taken to church to listen to a
rambling discourse on secular matters.
But, after all, the moral is the same as that
which Mr. Hudson tried to hammer into

VOL. II. T

the heads of his congregation. Our
characters are at sixes and sevens ; before
we can hope to restore order among them,
we must take stock of the situation.
What better opportunity than the present
?

Diana's despondency was due to more
than mere bodily aihiients. She had suffered
a crushing disappointment, all her
trouble to meet Frank at the dance having
been in vain. Dalrymple, who had previously
annoyed him by means of some
scurrilous verses about the island, had
made a vexatious allusion to Mrs. Maddrell
in her husband's hearing, and Frank,
afraid of losing control of his temper, had
left the Wattersons' shortly before Diana
arrived.

On his way to church this morning he
had heard some of the rumours which were
afloat concerning her adventures. They

were very wide of the mark and much exaggerated,
but he knew enough about her
to get some idea of the truth. Had she
not even maligned herself for his sake ?
and, though he had contradicted her self-accusations,
there were some Who still
believed them. As he sat in his uncle's
pew and thought over it all, he felt strangely
softened towards the woman who bore
him this great love. He had resisted the
feeling as one likely to be dangerous, but
it had proved too strong for him. If only
he had not loved Nessie, he told himself,
he could almost have loved Diana.

But it would give an unjust idea of
Frank's mental condition if we were to
leave him so, for he certainly was not at
peace with his fellows. He was impatient
with his uncle for not taking his part
more actively ; afraid to go near the Col-quits
; unfriendly with Ned, and burning

t2

Avitli resentment against Dalrymple, who
never lost a chance of worrying him.

And Jacob Maddrell, that fine old, 
gentleman With the snowy
beard, and talon-like nails? Sitting in
one corner of his great square pew, ashe
looked over the fence of holly, he
might have been taken for Father christina
himself. While the lessons were being
read, his pale-blue eyes never once
strayed from the big Bible which had
been his father's ; during the prayers he
always stood up, and, anxious not to inconvenience
his neighbours the Christoreys
by staring at them, prayed fervently into
his hat. When the old clerk led off the
singing, he joined in nth his quavering
voice ; and, during the sermon, he
listened apparently with the greatest attention.
Yet his thoughts, too, were wandering;
at times. Thrush he afterwards

went about smilingly showering good
wishes upon everybody, patting the children
on the head, and telling them never,
never, never to allow their long curls to
be cut off, because no gift of man could
compensate them for such a loss — a remark
that he thought peculiarly appropriate
to the season — he was grievously
oppressed by Frank's troubles and his
own. , It was a weary time for him, this
vacation, when there was no work for a
willing advocate to do. His funds had
sunk to a very low ebb ; and had it not
been for a magnificent hamper which
Major Christorey, in the character of a
grateful client, had sent him, his Christmas
dinner would have been a poor one.

Much of the general discomfort had been
caused by the tall, thin, handsome man
in a scarlet coat, who sat at the Lieuten-
ant-Governor's left hand, and looked down

upon the people below as if they had
been so many earthworms. What were
his reflections as he surveyed the result
of his handiwork? Perhaps he did not
think at all ; some men do not, and so
avoid seeing what might disturb their
digestions. As Dalrymple was going to
dine at Government House, this may have
been his case. At all events, he slept
soundly through the sermon. If, afterwards,
there was a shade of dissatisfaction
in his listless face, it may have been due
to the annoyance of having to march with
his men back to the barracks.

Many of the congregation stayed to the
communion. But the Colquitts did not ;
they hurried away with scarcely a word
to anybody. Dalrymple went after them,
wished them the compliments of the season,
and, being regarded as almost their only
friend, was very warmly received. At no

time had they felt their isolation more
than they did this morning; at no time
had his kindness been more welcome. He
had, indeed, made himself well-nigh indispensable
to the family, he was so often
at their house, though his attentions were
chiefly confined to Mrs. Colquitt, who was
consequently rather in a fog. She invited
him to an early dinner with them, and he
accepted, laughingly saying that he ought
to be equal to two dinners on Christmas
Day, especially when there would be four
or five hours between. Then he went
back to change his uniform.

While Dalrymple was crossing the
drawbridge, Cain the Leg, beaming like
the sun, stumped up to Jonathan Vondy
who was standing alongside, gazing at the
two or three vessels in the harbour, with
bunches of holly hung from their mast-heads.
The fishing-cutters were, of course,

laid up for the winter. They were lying
in the mud above the stone-bridge : a row
of black hulks, dismasted and weatherbeaten,
ranged along a waste stretch of
ground which the Silverburn threaded
and the sea claimed as its own at high
tide.

^ Morning', Jonathan,' said Cain the Leg,
briskly.

Morning', boy,' returned the old fossil,
more deliberately.

'A merry Christmas, Jonathan.'

Same to thee, boy.'

Exhausted by this conversational effort,
they fell to gazing into the harbour. But
presently Cain the Leg woke up again,
and, jerking his thumb in the direction
that Dalrymple had taken a minute or so
before, asked,

Now, what do you think of him ?'

And what,' demanded Jonathan, cautiously

surveying his questioner, ' dost
thou think of him thyself?'

Cain the Leg resumed his study of the
harbour, and Jonathan, after lighting his
^ pipe inside his sour-wester, assisted him.
■ When Cain the Leg again woke up, he
had turned the matter over in his mind
as carefully as he had the quid in his
mouth.

I think,' he said, looking steadily at
Jonathan's changeless face, ' he's a mortal
good han' at plain' fodjeeaghi,'^ an' if we're
to believe the has o' what he says, there's
gould on cushagsf yonder, for martin, sure '
' yonder ' being indicated by a wink
across the sea.

Ay, boy !'

'Ay, that I do,' said Cain the Leg,
nodding. After another lengthy pause, he
added. ' An' I think this, too. It's a deep

Drawing the long bow. f Yellow ragwort.

game he's pkyin', though he is so peerless
like, an' if he don't min' Avhat he's after,
he'll be running' some o' the hooks into his
own fingers. What do you say ?'

I say nothing,' replied Jonathan, who
had a good market for cod at the
barracks.

That's not much, anyway.'

Jonathan smoked on for a while in
silence, and then took the pipe out of his
mouth to say,

'Thou must summer an' winter a stranger
before thou canst know anything at all
about him.'

Cain the Leg looked at him with some
contempt. But, the Castle clock striking
the hour, he said,

'I must take the road, though.' And
so stumped on his way towards Claddagh
House.

The distrust of Dalrymple, it thus

appeared, was not confined to his own
circle of acquaintances ; it had reached a
much lower stratum. Indeed, as we have
already seen, it had penetrated even to the
dog creation, Toby having very pronounced
views on the subject, though it would be
difficult to say by what sense he had
acquired them.

Nevertheless, Dalrymple, who could be
just as agreeable as he usually was disagreeable
towards his own sex, had a way
of inspiring confidence in those whom he
wished to be favourably impressed. He
had tried it with the Colquitts, and also
with Ned ; in both cases with complete
success. Perhaps it was in some measure
due to the careless manner which Cain the
Leg had noticed. It was hard to think of
a man so obviously indolent and easygoing
as one Who would engage in the
determined pursuit of any particular object.

When he trod on anyone's corns, it was
generally ascribed to a lazy, selfish habit
of lounorinof through life without retard to
the feeling of others. This was true
enough in most cases. But there was one
case in which he was resolutely following
a definite track, and here the prevalent
idea helped to conceal his intentions.

As almost invariably happens to such
men, his indifference to what others might
feel or think led to trouble which might
easily have been avoided. Dalrymple
never made a greater mistake than he did
on St. Stephen's Day when he offended
Bobby Beg. The fruit of that sowing,
though not very quick in ripening, lasted
him a life-time.

CHAPTER XIII.

K O U G H WATER

On St. Stephen's Day it was customary for
parties of youths to go about singing,
carrying tiny biers formed of interlacing
boughs and twigs, and decorated ribbons,
evergreens, and such flowers as were procurable.
In the centre of each bier lay an
unfortunate wren, sacrificed to an old
custom supposed to have originated in a
command given by the early Christian
missionaries, the wren being called in
Manx the disdains or ^ Druid's bird.' As

everyone who has read Grimm's tales
knows, it is also the king of birds, a title
perpetuated by its name in Latin, French,
Dutch, and several other languages.
Hence, doubtless, the pretence of vast exertion
with which the biers were carried.

This custom, which still lingers in places,
is one of the few that one would gladly
see die out, for it involves cruelty to a
bird whose sole cause of offence presumably
is that it was the favourite of the
Druids. It has been carried so far that
wrens have become almost extinct in the
island, and substitutes have generally to
be found for them. Though a rat has
been so honoured after its death, the usual
victim is a poor little robin.

But on this particular St. Stephen's Day
it was actually a wren that occupied the
bier which Bobby Beg and a number of
others carried round the town. They

arrived in front of the barracks shortly
after the conclusion of parade. It was a
fine cold morning, the ground as hard as
iron, sprinkled with patches of hoar-frost,
on which the sunlight fell and glittered.
The sentry paced to and fro close to the
railings before the building ; j must beyond
stood Bobby Beg and his party. He looked
exceedingly proud of himself; was he
not performing for the benefit of the military,
many of whose heads appeared at the
upper windows to listen ? He led the way
into a song containing thirty-five verses,
which the reader would not thank me for
repeating. But here is one, the third, asa
sample :

We'll hunt the wren, says Robin the Bobbin ;
We'll hunt the wren, says Richard to Robin ;
We'll hunt the wren, says Jacltey the Land ;
We'll hunt the wren, says everyone.'

The singing brought Dalrymple to his

window. He opened it, and, though the
song was scarcely begun, threw out sixpence
and said,

'Now, be off!'

Bobby Beg looked hurt. However, he
picked up the sixpence and determined to
give this contemptuous officer full value
for his money. Though the others showed
a disposition to slink away, he stuck
manfully' to his text and sang on by
himself.

'Didn't I tell you to be off!' cried
Dalrymple.

Bobby Beg gave him a look of deep reproach.
He could no longer doubt that
his singing was not appreciated. The only
thing to be done was to give this unsympathetic
stranger a drain's feather, and then
to go. So, after plucking the unfortunate
monarch, Bobby Beg politely doffed his
singular hat, and, advancing to the window,

offered Dalrymple the feather, whelp
was considered a safeguard against shipwreck,
witchcraft, and disaster generally.

Confound you, you idiot !' cried Dalrymple,
angrily; 'what do you want?
Here, sentry, what do you mean by letting
this jabbering fool approach the
window ? '

The soldier promptly seized Bobby
Beg by the arm, and pushed him away
with a good deal of unnecessary violence.
This was the signal for a general dispersion.
A number of spectators who had
gathered round withdrew to a discreet
distance ; the bearers of the bier retired in
confusion, and Bobby Beg followed, gesticulating
and muttering. If a chance of
getting even with this high and mighty
person should present itself, he would
drop on it like a gannet upon a herring,
and he would watch for such chance days

VOL. II. u

and night until he found it. A jabbering
fool ! Ay, well, be would see whether he
could not make somebody else jabber too ;
and as to which was the bigger fool, that
was a matter of opinion.

Then Bobby Beg recollected the sixpence.
He fished it out of his pocket,
and, returning a short distance, deliberately
flung it at the window. It fell
somewhere inside the railings. Before the
spectators had recovered from their astonishment,
he was walking off laughing scornfully.
So Dalrymple made one determined
enemy in Castletown.

The same afternoon he went out of his
way to irritate Frank and widen the breach
between him and Ned. The opportunity
arose as follows :

Nessie, though feeling anything but
well, had been visiting some of her humble

friends in Queen Street, and, when returning
home, was attacked with dizziness.
It was with the greatest difficulty that she
managed to walk as far as the marketplace,
and here her strength deserted her.
She stood quite still, trembling, not daring
to take another step.

Diana, looking out of her window, saw
her, and, struck by her evident feebleness
and the exceeding pallor of her face, rose
to go to her assistance. But the next
moment she changed her mind, for three
men were converging upon the spot from
different directions, all walking at such a
rapid pace that they might have been
matched against one another. They were
Frank Maddrell, Ned Christorey, and
Fabian Dalrymple. Diana watched the
race with breathless excitement ; she stood
at the window like a statue, except that

u2

her eyes were bright with eagerness and
her cheeks flushed with colour.

There were no townspeople about ; buta
party of soldiers in couples, who had
been engaged in fetching coals from the
depot on the quay, had set down their
great wooden baskets near the glacis, and
were looking on with many a sly joke.
One of them, the black sheep of the regiment,
and, it must be said with regret, a
clergyman's son, offered to lay two pots of
beer to one on the lieutenant, but could
find no takers.

Dalrymple certainly had the advantage
not only in his long legs, but also in a
good start. Ned, however, was running
him close, slogging away at a steady, useful
pace, with Toby trotting behind. And,
if Frank had the longest distance to travel,
he appeared to be moving the fastest. As
the three advanced, walking like clockwork,

Diana plainly showed in which
direction her sympathies lay. She made
an impatient movement as if she would
hurry Ned along, and, when she saw him
suddenly stop, looked both indignant and
dismayed. Then a little cry escaped her,
for Frank was running. He arrived too
late, however, Dalrymple having already
reached Nessie's side, and insisted upon
her taking his arm.

Allow me, Nessie,' panted Frank.

Certainly not, sir,' said Dalrymple,
loftily, waving him back with his disengaged
hand. ' Don't you see your wife is
waiting for you?'

Frank made a dash forward, but stopped,
quivering with passion which he could
scarcely control. ' You cad !' escaped from
between his clenched teeth.

Go to your friend there,' said Dalrymple,
looking back and nodding towards

Ned, who was standing out of earshot.
He will teach you better manners.' Then
he marched off with Nessie, who had no
very clear idea of what was taking place,
her poor head ached so.

Frank stood awhile staring after them,
then, almost beside himself with rage, he
rushed up to Ned.

Look !' he cried, fiercely, seizing Ned's
arm and pointing at the retreating couple,
that's your doing. Yours — yes, yours,
Ned Christorey. You pretended to love
her, and you have delivered her up body
and soul to that demon ! Are you proud
of your work ?'

Steady there, Frank,' said Ned, quietly.
'What have I done?'

Great heavens, he asks what he has
done ! Look there ; that's what you have
done. Given her over to a life of misery.
That's what you have done.'

But how?'

By your incredible folly.'

'Look here, Frank said Ned, in the
same quiet tones. ^ I can stand a great
deal from you, especially when you must
be very much worried, but this is going
too far. You give me no alternative, I'm
sorry to say ; you compel me to leave you
alone until you return to your senses.
Come, Toby !'

Lingering a little in the hope that he
might be called back, he walked away
and it was not until he was long out
of sight and hearing that he quickened
his pace. He went after Nessie and Dairy
male.

Not one of the details of this scene had
been lost upon Diana. Though unable to
hear the words spoken, she had seen every
look and gesture, and they were full of
painful significance, telling her far, far

more than she wished to know. If she
had needed any clue to her real position,
nothing could have been clearer than what
she had just witnessed. What progress
had she made in the affections of the man
she loved, her husband ? Had she made
any progress ? Not the least, so far as
she could see. With a weary sigh, Diana
sank upon the couch.

Meanwhile, Ned, anxious on Nessie's account,
went to Claddagh House to inquire
the nature of her illness, and offer any
assistance in his power. He approached
with more than usual awkwardness, blushing
at the recollection of his last visit,
when she had sent him from her for the
second time. Dalrymple, in the coolest
manner in the world, came to the door
and invited him in: a most bare-faced
thing to do, considering what had passed

between them. If anything could have
opened Ned's eyes, surely that should.
But he regarded it as merely a friendly
act, though perhaps somewhat too familiar.
When he learned that Nessie was suffering
from nothing worse than a severe
headache, he declined Dalrymple's invitation,
and walked off to think matters over.
Indeed, he was too much upset by his
interview with Frank to be capable of
conversation.

Nessie did not recover as quickly as
might have been expected. She had to
keep her room for several days, and, her
system being much shaken by recent troubles,
Dr. Mylworry thought it not impossible
that she might be laid up for a
week or two. Slight as was the additional
expense this entailed upon the family, it
nevertheless told its tale upon an exchequer

already sadly overburdened. At
a council of war convened by Mona, it was
reluctantly decided that some of their
capital must be sacrificed to meet the
bills which would be showered upon them
at the commencement of the New Year.
In other words, unless something should
turn up — a conveniently vague expression
which evaded the necessity of putting certain
contingencies in a more definite form
starvation was merely a question of
time.

What was the most likely something?
Dalrymple had never been a more frequent
visitor at the house than he was now.
Almost the only visitor, he had things
pretty nearly his own way. His object
seemed clear ; everybody said he was benton
marrying Nessie.

As if to give everybody the lie direct,

Dalrymple suddenly announced his intention
of going on leave. What is more, he
carried it out. He secured a berth onboard
the Lord of the Isles, one of three
small steamers then plying between Douglas
and. Liverpool, and vanished, leaving
his Castletown acquaintances in the greatest
bewilderment.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN Macdonald, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

\\

\ \

VOL. III.

A MANX STORY

BY

HUGH COLEMAN DAVIDSON

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. m.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1887.

All rights reserved.

v-3

CONTENTS

OF

THE THIRD VOLUME.

CHAPTER I.

SUSPENSE.

Dalrymple's departure was followed by
an uneasy calm, as if the very atmosphere
had undergone a change. It formed the
chief topic of conversation ; people got
into a habit of talking about it in whispers
; and festivities were almost completely
abandoned.

Members of large communities will find
it hard to realise the hold which this one

VOL. III. B

man had taken upon the town. In order
to do so, they must think of the sudden
removal of a very agreeable or very disagreeable
person from their own households.
Personal influence is like an odour,
sometimes penetrating to a great distance,
and sometimes scarcely able to get beyond
its source. In Dairy male's case, it was
most pungent, tickling some noses pleasantly
enough, but rasping others until
there arose a consuming desire to put a
barrier between themselves and this noxious
thing. Those who disliked him lived
in an uncomfortable state of expectation,
as if he might drop upon them from the
clouds at any moment; and those who
liked him felt dispirited, because the mainspring
of their gaiety was gone.

In two other quarters his absence was
deeply regretted, but for very different

reasons. He was sorely missed by Bobby
Beg, Abo had confidently looked forward
to an opportunity of tweaking bis flexible
nose. He was also missed by the Col-quits,
who learned for the first time how
invaluable he had been to them. He had
been their one visitor ; his attentions had
become part of their daily life ; and now
he was gone and they were left alone.

Frank and Ned, divided from one another,
did not venture to stretch out a
helping hand. Considering all the circumstances,
they thought it better for everybody
that they should stay away. And so
the Colquitts drifted towards the breakers,
destitution in front, and illness already
upon them.

Mona, who had vainly tried to get pupils,
could not but shudder when she looked
ahead. The whole weight of responsibility

b2

seemed to rest upon her, and it was not
lightened b}^ the sight of her father comfortably
nursing himself by the fire-side,
or of Georgie, who, poor boy, could do nothing
to help. Such being the case, it was
only natural that Mrs. Colquitt, though
tending Nessie with all a mother's love,
should grow more depressing than ever.
Even the weather, which was mild, gave
her a text for many melancholy discourses ;
she pounced upon every passing head, and
firmly nailed to it that threadbare fallacy,
A green Christmas, a full churchyard.'

On New Year's Eve there occurred an
incident which greatly increased the tension
at Claddagh House. Mrs. Colquitt
was in a painful state of agitation about
the quaaltag\ or first person who should
cross the threshold after midnight. If he
happened to be dark, she anticipated some

wonderful slice of luck; if light, a continuance
of misfortune ; and if a spaagaglit^
or splay-footed person, nothing short of a
calamity. She had cakes, bread and cheese,
and sough ready for his reception. And
quite early in the evening, instead of
sitting quietly by Nessie's bedside as usual,
she kept trotting up and downstairs, being
imperatively urged to confide to Mona her
wish that the quaaltagh might be somebody
she had just thought of, a different somebody
every time.

She had just left the room after one of
these visits, when Mr. Colquitt and Mona,
who were keeping one another company,
were startled by a piercing scream, followed
by the sound of a heavy body bumping
on the stairs. They ran out and found
Mrs. Colquitt lying insensible on the
ground. As she was not in the habit of

fainting, it was an extraordinary thing
altogether. Her husband and Sheval carried
her to a couch, and, while they proceeded
to administer restoratives, Mona
picked up the candle which had fallen into
the hall, and went upstairs to investigate.

But cool-headed girl as she was, when
she reached the landing, she had to clutch
the balustrade, otherwise she would have
shared her mother's fate. It was only by
a strong effort of the will that she retained
possession of her senses.

In an arm-chair placed exactly opposite
the spot where she stood, with its legs
crossed and its arms folded, sat a skeleton,
nodding its gruesome head at her. At
first she thought the movement an illusion
caused by the flickering light of the
candle which she held in her hand ; but
as she watched, too terrified to remove

her eyes from the grisly thing, she saw
that it actually was moving. Its attitude
denoted perfect repose ; it sat there nodding
as if it had fallen asleep.

Convinced of this, Mona gave way to
her fears. She turned and fled downstairs.


When she had told her father of the
ghastly sight on the landing, he looked
quite as frightened as she did. Without a
word he hurried from the room, and, meetings
Cain the Leo' in the hall, beckoned to
him to follow.

I felt funny like all over,' said Cain
the Leg, when he afterwards described
the scene. Apparently this internal fun
consisted of a relaxation of all the joints,
for never did a more remarkable limpness
come over a man than came over Cain the
Leg Ashen his eyes fell upon the skeleton,

nodding in the arm-chair. Nothing would
induce him to approach it, though he
tremblingly followed with the candle when
Mr. Colquitt carried it into a room which
was a confusion of boxes.

This,' said Mr. Colquitt, with emotion,
is Master Georgie's doing. A fine mess
the young rascal has got me into.'

The skeleton, which had been tied into
the chair, was evidently the work of an
amateur. It was clumsily put together
with coarse wire, some of the bones were
missing, and those that were present formed
anything but a homogeneous whole.
Still, such as it was, this singular old man
was proud of it. It had given him occupation
while his wife was out of the way
and while his family were looking forward
to starvation. That Georgie should
have discovered it and played this dangerous

practical joke with it, was a most
annoying thing. What on earth should
he say to his wife? There was a long
narrow empty box close by, and Mr. Col-quite
prepared to transfer the skeleton
from the chair to it.

But look !' gasped Cain the Leg, with
eyes starting from his head. ' It's alive —
oh, murder, it's alive.'

Stop that row,' said Mr. Colquitt,
angrily.

But look, sir, look !' said Cain the Leg,
pointing a very shaky hand at the nodding
skeleton.

Mr. Colquitt raised the top of the skull,
which had been sawn across and opened
with a wire hinge. Then, with a certain
air of satisfaction, he motioned to the
startled man, who approached fearfully,
craning forward at each step to ascertain

whether he had come within sight. When
Cain the Leg could see into the cavity, he
beheld a toad — the toad which Dalrymple
had presented to Mr. Colquitt.

I don't think,' said Mr. Colquitt, smiling
for the first time, ' your mistress will look
for it in there.' With which, he proceeded to
put the skeleton into the box and lock it up.
This affair caused a tremendous commotion,
which did not subside for weeks.
Indeed, it was never forgotten by those
who participated in it. Georgie, now very
penitent and frightened, was called out of
his hiding-place and severely reprimanded,
but it was upon his father that most of the
censure fell. Mrs. Colquitt insisted that
the whole thing was of his contriving, and,
though she was quite mistaken here, there
Alas some excuse for her, considering the
shock she had received.

To complete her misfortunes, the quaaltagh
turned out to be a spoor aght^ so she commenced
the new year with a terribly heavy
load. Besides her real troubles, she was
now harassed by an imaginary one scarcely
less grievous. In her attempts to guess at
the nature of the disaster awaiting the
family — whether it was to be a serious turn
in Nessie's illness or what — she brought a
great deal of unnecessary worry upon herself
and others. If only there had been
somebody from the outside world for her
to talk to, it might have eased her mind.
Bnt there was not one. And so, for the
Colquitts, the dark months were cork with
trouble.

As for Frank, he was haunted by the
disquieting suspicion that Dalrymple's
departure was part of a carefully prepared
plan. Though he could not see how to fit

it in, lie clung to this idea most tenaciously,
turning it over in his mind day after day,
so that his anger was kept at high pressure.
He invented plot and counterplot ; thought
of everything Dalrymple was likely to think
of, and set something else against it;
seemed to have provided for every emergency
; and yet was not satisfied with his
barricade.

There was a certain legend running in
Frank's mind.

If tradition can be believed, there are
underground passages connecting Castle
Rushen with the abbey at Ballasalla, which
is nearly two miles distant. They are said
to communicate with a network of magnificent
streets perpetually lighted up with a
silver glow like moonlight. From time to
time hardy explorers have gone down there,
some never to be heard of again, and

others to return with marvellous tales of
adventure. One man, armed with a
ploughshare, arrived after a long walk at a
rock to which was chained an old blind
giant with a long and snowy beard. ' And
what are they doing up there ?' he asked
of the traveller. ' Och ! just much about the
same as usual.' ' Give me hold of that
ploughshare,' said the giant. And crushing
it like a filbert, he bellowed : ' There
arc still men in the Isle of Man.'

Now, this was the very thing that Frank
earnestly desired to show Dalrymple. His
standpoint had changed and was still
changing. There could be no doubt that
the problem was approaching a solution, a
most desirable result for which his uncle
his wife, and most of his friends were
striving.

One stormy afternoon towards the end

of January, Diana saw Mr. Madclrell crossing
the market-place, and, acting upon a
sudden impulse, went out to speak to him.
More than once during the last few weeks
she had tried to see Frank at his office, but
without success, for he was seldom there in
the vacation. The greater part of the
time he spent in some pursuit likely to
replenish the scanty larder at home, either
in shooting or else in coursing with Dr.
Mylworry, who thanked his stars that, owing
to the healthiness of the town, he had
but few patients to interfere with his sport.
Unable to meet the nephew, Diana thought
she would try the uncle.

Mr. Maddrell greeted her with cold
politeness. He bowed, but did not offer
to shake hands. The wind being so high
that she found it difficult to stand, he led
her to the weather side of the freestone

column. Her spirits, which had began to
fall, rose again at this piece of thoughtfulness.
As concisely as possible she stated
her request, concluding vdth a hope that
he would help her to put an end to a
situation which was intolerable.

'I shall be very glad,' he replied, gravely,
^ when some settlement has been reached.
If it should be Frank's wish that I should
receive you as my niece, you shall have no
cause to reproach me for want of heartiness.
But at present the decision does not
rest in my hands.'

^ But oh, Mr. Maddrell, won't you use
your influence with him ?'

You see, I'm not in possession of the full
facts. I don't know who is right and who is
wrong. Frank has not volunteered any information,
and I have not asked for it. Therefore,
my safest plan is to hold my tongue.'

^ Then you won't help me said Diana
chilled by the old advocate's reserve.

To speak quite frankly, I not only can't
help you, but, if your interests should clash
with those of my nephew, I am bound to
side with him. Don't misunderstand me,'
said he, looking at her kindly. ' We in
the Isle of Man hold the ties of relationship
to be paramount. If you should hear a
word of mine that seems to you harsh,
remember, it has been prompted not by
unfriendliness towards you, but solely by a
wish to protect Frank.'

^ And in protecting him,' said Diana, with
a bright smile, ' you will protect me, his
wife.'

The old man's eyes lighted up with
pleasure. He seemed about to give free
rein to his feelings ; but, suddenly recollecting
himself, he gravely offered her his arm

n

and conducted her to her own door — a circumstance
that caused no small amount of
gossip in the town. It was currently
reported that Mr. Maddrell had undertaken
to mediate between husband and wife, and
everybody put forward his or her version
as an indisputable fact.

But attention was diverted into another
channel by the threatening aspect of the
Weather. Though it grew calmer towards
sunset, there could be no mistaking the
wild look overhead, the scared way in
which the clouds raced up from the sea
and took refuge behind the mountains, the
ragged aspect of the sky to windward, the
heavy ground-swell tumbling upon the
beach, and the strange sound of the approaching
wind, not unlike the distant bay
of a pack of hounds. There was clearly a
storm in progress, as the gulls and gannets

VOL. III. c

knew when they fled away inshore to
cower under the hedgerows.

It was destined to prove a very memorable
storm. Among the many who suffered
from its violence was Dalrymple. He
who had made his first entrance into
Castletown amid the strains of martial
music, was on his Away back amid the
thunder of the sea. But whether he would
ever reach his destination seemed extremely
doubtful. The Gordian knot,
which had been troubling so many minds,
was in danger of being cut in a way they
had never anticipated.

It blew very hard after midnight, and
on the following morning the wind, after a
brief lull, increased to a furious gale, which
brought a dense, drizzling rain sweeping
in from the sea.

Not knowing what else to do, Frank

went to his office. But he had not been
there long when a fisherman ran in to say
that a vessel had gone ashore opposite
Claddagh House. She was a small
schooner, he said, and appeared to be
breaking-up fast, but the driving rain
rendered anything more than an occasional
glimpse of her impossible.

Here, perhaps, was the very chance that
Frank had been longing for, but why, oh,
why was his enemy away at the time?
His oilskins and sour-wester were fancying:
up behind the door. He hurried into them
and went away down to the beach.

c2

CHAPTER II.

THE Storm.

Surely, Ned, you are not going out in
such weather as this,' said Mrs. Christorey,
looking at the rain which the wind was
hurling against the window.

eyes, mother,' replied Ned, buttoning
up his overcoat. * There may be something
to do.'

But there will be plenty to do it.'

You wouldn't have me stand idly by, I
know.'

Her gaze was bent upon him anxiously.

Though she would not come between him
and what he considered to be his duty, no
matter how dangerous it might be, she was
a little afraid that his rejection by Nessie
might have given birth to a certain recklessness
which was only waiting for an
opportunity to show itself. This was a
frame of mind in which he should not
leave the house with her consent at a time
when a wreck was a not unlikely occurrence.
However, what she saw in his face
convinced her she had been mistaken.
Though she could not bid him go, her
smile was enough. He stooped down and
kissed her.

But as he was turning to leave the room
his father entered, stiff as a poker.

'What's all this tomfoolery?' he demanded.
'You're not going out, Ned?'

'Yes, sir.'

'Then,' said the major, pointing at
Toby, 'take that ugly beast with you,
and pray that he may be blown away

Ned went out smiling, for he knew that
his father was nearly as fond of Toby ashe
was himself; and he left the dog behind.
Though the weather was good
enough for himself, it was, he considered,
too bad for his shaggy friend. So he
hurried away through the storm alone.

The town, as Ned passed through it,
appeared utterly deserted. In the marketplace
the wind carried everything before
it ; coming in sharp gusts from every point
of the compass, it threw the straws into
such bewilderment that they knew not
which way to turn. The grey walls of
the Castle were almost black with the
rain ; in one place a great curtain of ivy
had been torn away, and the ugly network

of roots was flapping in the wind ; and
there was no ensign floating over the
northern tower as usual, lest the massive
flag-dost should be hurled into the keep
below. The barracks and all the houses
around were grimy with salt and dust and
rain ; everything looked bleak, and blurred,
and desolate.

There was not a single person to be
seen, except the two sentries trying to
shelter themselves in their boxes. By the
way, about an hour later, a strange thing
happened to the sentry in front of the
guard-room on the quay. Such was the
force of the wind that he was blown into
the harbour, and but for his heavy overcoat,
which had become inflated with air,
would certainly have been drowned.

Hearing of the wreck from the sentry,
Ned went across the drawbridge, through

the framework of which the wind was
whistling shrilly, while the chains kept up
an incessant clanking. In the harbour
the water was smooth enough, plashing
dismally around the huddled vessels, but
outside the waves were bursting like huge
bombs against the pier, and flying over
it in dense clouds of smoke. From the
Douglas Road it was possible to see a
little, but not much, of the weltering
waste that lay below the rain and spray.
The tide being high, the bay was full of
wind-driven waves, tossing and struggling
and hissing as they rushed onward to the
very wall, to leap high into the air and
fall upon the road with a drenching 'swish,'
barely audible amid the roar of the gale
and the thunder upon the beach.

Almost opposite the gates of Claddagh
House there was, in the wall, an opening

leading down to the shore, which at this
point rose more abruptly in a bank of
shingle. And here stood a group of men
and women, gazing earnestly seaward.
When Ned looked in the same direction,
he could just perceive a dark object looming
through the mist, and disappearing
every other minute beneath an avalanche of
surge. The unfortunate vessel had struck
upon a pebbly ridge, which had been
formed by the action of the tide sweeping
round the pier, and was prevented from
shifting by the outcrop of the limestone
layers.

Gradually the curtain lifted, and little
by little the hull and mast and spars came
into view. After she had grounded, the
wind and sea had swung her round, so
that, with her deck sloping sharply towards
the shore, she now lay broadside onto

the waves, wliicli were pouring over her
incessantly, smothering her beneath torrents
of dark-green water and snow-white
foam, lifting now her bow and now her
stern to batter them against the shingle
and keen edges of the rocks. She had
been schooner-rigged, but every stitch of
canvas had been either taken off her or
else carried away. Her foremast, also, had
gone by the board : evidently after she had
struck, for, held by the lee-rigging, it was
ramming against her side and threatening
to stave it With the rise and fall of every
sea. The mainmast was still standing, and
there were a few dark specks clinging to it ,
But hearing a startled cry from the people
on the beach, Ned looked again, and lo ! it
was gone.

He hurried down to Frank, who had
only just arrived upon the scene. Under

the influence of this dreadful catastrophe,,
the two friends met as if there had never
been any disagreement between them.

Frank,' said Iste, eagerly, ' can't we do
anything to help them ?'

I'm afraid not, Ned,' replied Frank,
sadly.

Poor things,' put in an old fisherman,
it's all over with them now. Anyway, no
boat could live in that broken water
yonder.'

The rise of the bank where the dismasted
hulk lay, partly stopped the seas ;
so that, after expending their strength
upon her, they poured onward again in a
semi-circle of broken water, which was
lovely to look upon. Surely there is nothing
so alluringly beautiful as the whiteness
of foam upon a rocky coast where its
purity is unsullied by sand or mud. It

has a delicate creamy softness which allows
the eye to peer right into it, so different
from the impenetrable glance-repelling
whiteness of snow. You forget the
virulence of its hiss in the fascination
of its matchless beauty, and feel that
you must lave in it and so bring yourself
into contact with such heavenly spotlessness.


But when it is the covering of death,
when it is contemptuously tossing to and
fro dark things that once were men, and
when a battered hulk looms through the
veil of rain and spray in the background,
one views it with very different feelings.
So beautiful, yet so cruel! Frank and
Ned shuddered as they looked at it ; the
faces of the fishermen standing close by in
their dripping oilskins were grim and
solemn ; and the women and children

were huddled together like terrified sheep
behind.

There was nothing to be done but wait
and watch until the sea should choose to
deliver up its prey. One by one those
dark things came ashore ; one by one they
were grasped by strong hands rushing
fearlessly into danger to save them from
as much ill-treatment as possible ; and oneby
one they were tenderly borne to a place
of shelter, thence to travel their last journey
together. For several hours this
melancholy work went on. Frank and
Ned stayed there, doing what they could,
which was little enough. The storm,
having wreaked its vengeance, began to
abate, the wind following the sun a point
or two and falling rapidly. But the rain
came down in torrents, which made it
more difficult to see than ever.

At some little distance along the shore
a sailor s chest was washed up, unnoticed
by all except one man, Plague, who stood
looking at it, and finally broke it open.
He was not exactly drunk at the time,
but incessant drinking had so deadened
his moral faculties that he was scarcely
responsible for his acts, his hatred against
the individual having expanded into
hatred against the whole human race.
If the brand of Cain was not upon
his forehead, it was certainly upon his
heart.

The chest was nearly filled with clothes ;
among them lay a gold chain and a locket
containing the portrait of a young girl,
probably the dead sailor's sweetheart.
Here was a story in miniature ; a story so
told that it would have brought tears into
the eyes of most men. In Plague's case,

however, it gave to his gaunt features an
expression that can only be called wolfish.
He picked up the trinket and was about
to put it in his pocket, but suddenly
dropped it, and, with a muttered oath,
strode off.

It was the appearance of Frank that
had scared him away. He looked after
Plague's retreating figure which he easily
recognised, but made no attempt to follow.
Why should he ? The gold chain, which
would have been taken first, showed that
nothing had been touched, so no actual
harm had been done, whatever might have
been the brute's intentions. No, let him
go his own way ; if sooner or later it did
not end at the gallows, it would be a wonder.
So Frank, seeing Bobby Beg in the
distance, summoned him to assist, and together
they carried the chest to a spot

where the rest of the wreckage was
collected.

Look, Master Frank !' exclaimed Bobby
Beg, when he had set down his burden.
Who are they yonder ?'

Frank looked in the direction indicated,
and was surprised to see a number of
strange men coming along the road.
Their dress, which had been sadly damaged
by the weather, showed them to belong to
a man-of-war, and they were headed by an
officer in naval uniform. They walked as
if greatly exhausted, and, when they
came in sight of the people on the beach,
leaned against the wall and made signals
to them. There was a general rush to
the spot.

The officer announced himself to be
Lieutenant Fosbroke, of Hem. brig-of-war
Goshaivh. now a complete wreck. She had

been despatched to the island with military
stores, he said, had been caught in the
ovale, and had run on some rocks which he
had since ascertained to be situated on the
inside of Langness. How she had got into
that position he did not know, but the
fishermen knew well enough that it was
the effect of the tide sweeping round the
Skerranes. All their boats had been carried
away, except two which had been
sent off to fetch assistance. One of them,
under the charge of the purser, had not
arrived as yet; but the other — the lieutenant's
— had reached Derbyhaven after a
terrible pull of three hours.

It was an odd course to take, but then
they did not know where they were. Instead
of coming straight across the bay —
and this would have been difficult enough —
they must have gone outside again, and

VOL. III. D

have rowed along the rocky coast of Lang-ness,
where the bottom is so rough and the
current so strong that even in cain weather
the water is often like a seething caldron.
How the boat managed to keep afloat in
the wild sea which must have prevailed
out there during the height of the gale,
was long afterwards a standing puzzle.
- But perhaps the most singular part of
the lieutenant's narrative was yet to come.
There was a passenger on board the
Goshawk ; at least, if she still held together,
which seemed very unlikely. Being an
intimate friend of th captain's, he had
joined her by invitation, for he too Alas
2foino[ to Castletown. His name was
Fabian Dalrymple.

Bobby Beg hailed this announcement
with a yell of delight. To the amazement
of everybody, he tucked the brimless

hat under his arm, and, heedless of the
rain pouring down upon his yellow hair,
began to dance a sort of hornpipe in the
muddy road. His fellow-townsmen, all
glistening like seals, looked on with indignant
surprise ; opposite stood the strangers,
the lieutenant slightly in advance of his
men, watching with bewilderment pure and
simple. It struck them as a curious reception
after their escape from the sea,
while they were telling of friends who
were still in deadly peril, if not already
drowned.

Hoot, sirs !' said Bobby Beg, pausing
for a moment in his frantic dance. ' If a
body won't take a drain's feather, what
happens to him? Shipwreck — shipwreck
shipwreck !' With which he again
plunged into the hornpipe, but was speedily
seized and quieted by force.

d2

And now a rescue had to be attempted.
Ned looked at Frank, and Frank looked at
Ned ; not a word was spoken ; but by a
simultaneous impulse, as if that look
had flashed the thoughts of each to the
other, they moved side by side, and so led
the way to the town.

Neither said very much as they walked
along, stepping out as briskly as if they
were coming fresh to the labours of the
day. If either had glanced at the other's
face he would have seen there the reflected
expression of his own — a hard, determined
look about the features and a smile of
pleasure in the eyes. After a friend's life,
perhaps most of us would prefer to save
that of an enemy ; and, while Frank
hoped he were going to do the one, Ned
hoped he was going to do the other.
Moreover, both were exceedingly glad not

only to shake hands, but also to feel that
the friendship cemented by a danger shared
in common would stand a severer strain
than was likely to be put upon it. It was
strange, they reflected, that the man who
had divided them, should now be linking
them together more firmly than they had
ever been before.

Frank owned the safest boat in the harbour.
. Like most of the others, she was
lying above bridge for the winter, but he
soon had her launched and brought alongside
the quay. She had belonged to a
whaler, and was built on much the same
lines as a lifeboat, curving up to the bow
and stern, which were both alike, but
without any contrivance for righting her
if she should be capsized. When examined,
she was found to leak a good deal, the
paint having been knocked off in places by

her last season's work, and also by children
who had fine fun cruising on shore. However,
as Frank said when he returned
from his office with his oars and rowlocks,
that did not matter much, for she was sure
to be pretty full of water before she got
back.

There were several other boats beinor

o

prepared for sea, so the spectators were
broken up into groups, but the greater
number stood around Frank and Ned, who
had no lack of assistance. There were still
four vacant seats in the whale-boat, aud
the question was who should fill them.

While Frank was considering, there
came along the quay two stalwart yellow-bearded
men, marching side by side. An
active old woman, who grasped with one
hand the shawl that protected her head,
trotted slightly in front, and occasionally

turned back to look at them. Mrs. Quirk
had good reason to be proud of ber sons
who were two of the best and most daring
fishermen on the coast. Marriage had
done but little to separate them, for they
lived in adjoining cottages, shared one
boat between them, and were seldom seen
apart. If such brotherly affection as theirs
was rare, so also was the assiduity with
which they followed their calling. Whether
or not they liked fishing for its own sake,
they could not have pursued it with more
unflagging industry had it been their
sport, instead of the toil by which they
earned their daily bread. Where there
were fish and a tolerable chance of catching
them, there the two Quirks were almost
certain to be found.

^ Here they are. Master Frank,' said their
mother.

Ay, we're ready, sir,' said the sons, ' if
you'll have us.'

Have you !' cried Frank. ' That I will,
and right gladly too.'

Then the other men, who had only been
waiting for some one to take the lead, all
volunteered in a body. But only a couple
more being required, Frank selected two
powerful fellows called Fatherland Briton
respectively. With as little delay as possible
they took their places in the boat,
pushed off, and paddled down the harbour,
the people running along the quay, and
cheering.

Some of the other boats had already
started, but had been obliged to return.
They were but small skiffs, quite unable to
stand such a sea as Alas still raging outside.
Indeed one had no sooner got beyond
the pier-head than it was upset, its

occupants being rescued only with the
greatest difficulty. In the end, the whaleboat
had to venture alone on the stormy
passage across the bay.

Though the waves were still breaking
the pier, — but much less heavily than
an hour or two before, for the tide was
ebbing, — a crowd collected near the lighthouse
in order to see the six go by, perhaps
to see the last of them. As the boat
passed, they sent after it a ringing cheer,
and from the midst of the strife of wind
and rain and sea came a faint cheer in
return.

It was now that the real struggle began.
Suddenly meeting the full force of the
gale, as it rushed past the pier-head, the
boat stopped as if frightened, and then
sheered away to leeward, no attempt being
made to stay its progress in that direction,

for the oars had been similarly arrestee!.
It was an anxious moment for the spectators.
As far as the eye could see, the bay
was ruled with long, straight lines of
breakers, each with the smoke flying from
its foaming crest, and deep down between
two of these monsters lay the defenceless
crew. But, before a wave could burst
upon them, the six strong bodies were
swinging back, dragging with them the
dead weight of their craft. With her head
to the sea, she went over the water like a
duck. And now climbing the snow-capped
hills, and now descending the green valleys,
they rowed on their way towards
Langness, until at length the mist and
rain hid them from sight.

Had Frank seen that little piece of cambric
waving him God-speed from the pier-head
? It was held in the hand of a tall

and beautiful woman, clad in a waterproof.
Many of the rough sailors, with
that thoughtful care which they show
so conspicuously at times, had stationed
themselves to weather of her, so as to
shield her as much as possible from the
heavy showers of spray that were falling
around. More than one, seeing her tremble
in the fierce gusts, had implored her
not to stand so near the edge. But she
resolutely kept her place, her eyes fixed
on the boat in which her husband was
pulling stroke.

When Diana heard of what Frank was
about to do, nothing would detain her in
the house. She had loved him before;
she was proud of him now. Heedless of
wind and rain, she had come down to the
pier, and when he passed on his way to
attempt the rescue of the crew of the

Gosliaivk and its one passenger, Fabian
Dalrymple, she was among those who
cheered him. Long after nearly everybody
else had gone, she stood there, peering
into the grey confusion which had
.swallowed him up.

CHAPTER III.

AFTER THE STORM

After shifting round to the south-west,
and so helping to deaden the sea, the wind
fell rapidly; and about midnight there
was little more than a light breeze, which
died away about daybreak.

The morning rose in smiles. It was one
of those sharp contrasts that make one
inclined to distrust the memory. For the
vivid recollection of a past altogether out
of harmony with the present is no easy
matter, until the appearance of some visible

token, when the ideas are suddenly crystallised
around it, just as water below zero
is almost instantaneously frozen by a grain
of sand.

The sky was a deep, dappled blue,
and the sun shone with a warmth quite
unusual for the end of January. Over
the gently heaving surface of the bay the
gills went by on lazy wing. The green
hills seemed to have ranged themselves
close to the grey houses clustering around
Castle Rushen, and the whole landscape to
have been compressed, so that the eye
could look right into it as into a well of
crystal water.

There was a slight ground-swell tumbling
upon the pebbles with a pleasant
melodious rhythm. Along the shore was
drawn up a row of carts, while big-booted
men with pitchforks in their hands were

wading knee-sleep in the Vater, collecting
for manure the long brown tangles which
the storm had plentifully strewn along the
coast. Some women were eno-ao^ed in the
same task, though they kept to the dry
land and were often accompanied by
rough ponies with panniers slung over
their backs. There were also a number of
children playing about, gathering another
species' of seaweed called dullish, which is
supposed to be edible, but tastes not unlike
leather impregnated with iodine.
Some day, perhaps, physicians will turn
their attention to the sea and convert it
into a mighty medicine-chest.

But the visible token, the grain of sand ?
Ah ! that lay on the beach beneath Clad-dash
House. Or, yonder among the pitiless
rocks of Langness, whither a stream
of people was now going to see what remained

of the ill-fated GoshaivJc. Around
those two dismasted hulks many a thought
might surely crystallize. One glance was
enough to bring the scene of yesterday
into view.

Early in the afternoon Captain Nugent,
after talking for some time to the High
Bailiff in front of the barracks, entered
'his friend's quarters and found him lying
on a couch by the side of the fire. Dalrymple
looked rather worn and tired, but
otherwise much the same as ever.

'That's a handsome thing you have
done,' said Nugent, taking the arm-chair
opposite.

'What?'

Why, given a hundred pounds to each
of the families of the two poor fellows
who were drowned, and fifty pounds a-piece
to the other couple.'

Pooh ! Nonsense, I couldn't have done
less,' said Dalrymple, carelessly.

^ Many would have done a great deal
less.'

But the money is nothing to me, and,
you see, I have no trouble about it.'

In order to rescue the crew of the Goshawk
the whale-boat had been obliged to
go backwards and forwards several times.
All went well until it was nearing the end
of its last journey, when it was capsized
in the heavy surf. All its passengers were
saved, however, including Captain Neville
and Dalrymple, who had refused to leave
the brig until his friend did. So also
were Frank, Ned, and the Quirks. But
the other two men, Farther and Briton,
were drowned, in the sight of a large number
of spectators who could do very little
to help them.

VOL. III. E

A subscription having been suggested
for the benefit of the bereaved families,
Dalrymple had headed it with a couple of
hundred pounds. In addition to this, he
had made each of the Quirks a present of
fifty pounds. Hence Nugent's remarks.

Dalrymple had also proposed to keep
the Goshawk; s crew at his own expense
during their enforced stay in Castletown.
But this the townspeople would not hear
of; it was for them to do, they said, and
for no one else. So, while the officers
became the guests of the Lieutenant-governor,
the crew were provided-with
comfortable billets for the few days they
would have to remain.

You are a queer fellow, Dalrymple,'
said Nugent, gravely regarding the other.
I have known you do some very excellent
things, and, if you'll excuse my saying so, I

have known you do some rather — well,
things that I didn't at all like. But,
whatever it is, you do it as if you don't
care two straws about it.'

^ Perhaps I don't,' said Dalrymple, with
a lazy laugh.

^Ahl'

'With one exception.'

'Miss Nessie Colquitt?'

Right you are.'

Then,' said Nugent, with an elevation
of the eyebrows, ' why did you run away
from her ?'

I scarcely know. Perhaps I wanted a
holiday.'

Nonsense, man.'

Perhaps I was afraid of myself.

Ah ! And you're not now ?'

'What a fellow you are to ask questions,'
said Dalrymple, with a shrug of his should



PNlVERSinnf OF.

ders. ' At least, I am sure of myself now
It was quite true, as might be inferred
from his words, that he had gone away
with some idea of shaking ois his fetters
before they became too irksome. It was
also true that his attempt had been a
signal failure: so much so that, getting
Captain Neville's invitation to return in
the GoshaioJc^ he had jumped at it, though
his leave had several weeks to run. As
weak natures almost invariably do, and
even strong ones sometimes in critical
emergencies, he had accepted it as the
finger of Fate, pointing out the road he
should take.

At the same time, his absence had also
been prompted by another motive which,
not being very flattering in any way, he
was careful to keep to himself. Finding
that he was not making satisfactory progress

with Nessie, he thought her illness —
when he would not be able to see her — an
excellent opportunity for showing the
Colquitts how indispensable he had become
to them. If he succeeded in curing himself,
no great harm would have been done ;
if he failed, he would return with a better
prospect of gaining his end. It was an
undeniably strong card to play, but two or
three things, the shipwreck among them,
had occurred to interfere with its success.

Some faint idea of the truth dawned
upon Nugent, and, not knowing exactly
what to say, he picked up a stained and
crumpled newspaper which was lying on
the hearth rug. Though a very ordinary
act between friends of old standing, it
produced in Dalrymple a surprising display
of energy. He sprang to his feet, seized
the newspaper, and tossed it behind the

couch. Theirs instantly falling back into
his usual indolent manner, he said, with an
uneasy laugh :

Hang it all [ when you come to a man's
rooms, you come to talk, and not to read.'

But,' objected Nugent, regarding the
subaltern with an astonished stare, 'you
don't generally correct your friends' faults
in that impulsive way.'

No, perhaps not. Consistency was never
my strong point.'

Nor spasms your favourite malady.'

True again,' said Dalrymple, returning
to his position on the couch. ^ But much
may be forgiven to one who has suffered
shipwreck. I'm an invalid, you know.'

Yes, you had a narrow squeak,' said
Nugent, thoughtfully, after a short silence.
Have you seen Maddrell yet ? He's a fine
young fellow, you must admit.'

I hear his voice in the hall.'

^Thenl'llgo.'

Nugent was glad to get away, for the
recent incident had troubled him more
than he would have liked to confess.
There was, he felt sure, something in that
paper which his friend did not wish him
to read. He knew it was an English newspaper,
but he had not observed either the
title or the date. What was the meaning
of this new mystery ? And now that he
came to think of it, Dalrymple's face bore
an expression that was strange to it : a
sort of furtive look as if he was afraid of
being watched. Nugent pictured to himself
a man idly admiring a will-o'-the-wisp,
then following it a little way with careful
footsteps, and finally yielding to a mad infatuation
to pursue it through a morass
which at the outset he would have shuddered

at. Could it be so with Dalrymple ?
It was earnestly to be hoped not.

As Nugent left the room, Frank entered.
Though he had not actually come to like
the man whose life he had saved, his feelings
had undergone a very remarkable
change. Whether it was the danger to
his own life during those perilous journeys
to and from the shipwrecked vessel, or
whether it was a sanguine hope that this
might be the starting-point for a happier
future, or whatever the reason — for Frank
scarcely knew himself — there could be no
denying that his former antipathy had
vanished. He regarded Dalrymple no
longer as an enemy, but rather as a
protege in whom he could take both pleasure
and pride.

It rested entirely with Dalrymple
whether or not this improved state of

affairs should continue, and unfortunately
the obligation he had incurred had only
increased his dislike. He winced at the
thought that he owed his life to the man
whom he had deliberately laid himself out
to molest. But what he had done in the
past Alas nothing compared with what he
was doing now. True, it was only a sin
of omission, but it cast a most discreditable
light upon his every subsequent act. He
was at once ashamed and indignant, as if
he had suffered some grievous injury,
partly through a fault of his own. However,
if he could not rule his feelings or
alter the line of conduct which he persuaded
himself had been forced upon
him, he could mend his manners, and this
he did.

How are you, Dalrymple ?' asked
Frank, warmly. *You don't look very

well yet. No, don't get up. I'll sit here.'
After shaking hands, he took the armchair.


Oh ! there's nothing the matter with
me. I'm a bit tired ; that's all. You ought
to be more tired than I am.'

Living by the sea-side, one soon gets
used to hard work.'

^ You saved my life, Maddrell,' said Dalrymple,
raising his eyes to look at Frank.
^ I scarcely know whether to thank you or
not.'

Pray, don't. I only did what anyone
else would have done under the same
circumstances.'

That may be your point of view ; mine
is different, naturally enough. I have to
ask myself, what is the value of my life to
myself or anybody else ? The only answer
I can see at present is. None whatever.

On the other hand, my death would have
saved a great deal of trouble.'

^ Oh, but that's nonsense,' said Frank,'
rather hurt at what seemed like an attempt
to depreciate his work. ' You are out of
sorts to-day, and no wonder.'

Perhaps so ; but don't think I undervalue
your act, for all that. It was a
wonderfully plucky thing to do.'

'That paper,' interrupted Frank, anxious
to get away from the subject, and
pointing underneath the couch, ' seems to
have been shipwrecked also.'

Dalrymple's legs descended from the
couch so as to obstruct Frank's view, and
his manner was very uneasy.

Yes,' he said, with an attempt at carelessness
; ' it's an old paper that I happened
to have in my pocket at the time.'

'An English paper? We don't often

see them here. Might I look at it, when
you have done with it ?'

Well, as a matter of fact, it's not in a
fit state to be read ; otherwise, you should
have it, of course. Have you seen Chris-tore
to-day ?'

Finding that he was not getting on as
well as he had expected, Frank did not
stay long. The new Dalrymple that he
had been setting up in his fancy was very
different from the man in the barracks,
who Alas again very different from the
man that used to reside there. Between
the three, Frank was naturally puzzled.

And now the meeting that he had so
long evaded was forced upon him. As he
was leaving the barracks, he met Diana,
and — if we exclude the occasion of her
ride in a wheel-barrow — for the first time
since she left the sick-room in Which they

had been married, husband and wife stood
face to face. She had seen him cross the
market-place, and, guessing where he was
going, had come out and waited for him.
She was little less embarrassed than he
was, but her embarrassment sprang from
a want of reliance upon her own powers, a
strange thing with her ; and his from a
fear of being obliged to say something that
would pain her.

Dalrymple, who was looking out of his
window, watched them with a painful conflict
of emotions, his handsome face changing
colour every other moment. And
Bobby Beg, who had stationed himself in
front of the custom-house opposite — a position
he often occupied afterwards — watched
Dalrymple as a cat watches a mouse.
Though what he saw would have perplexed
a miser brain than his, he was

pretty confident that his time would come.

^ Frank,' said Diana, panting a little, 'I
must tell you how very, very proud I feel.
It was a noble deed — a deed worthy of
those old Manx heroes of whom you are so
fond of talking. Yes, Frank, "there are
still men in the Isle of Man." '

He started at this. It showed such an
intimate acquaintance with his thoughts.

'I stood on the pier,' Diana went on,
and watched you go by.'

^ You did !' he exclaimed, looking at her
wonderingly.

'Yes,' she said, with a sudden pang.
For, if he had cared about her, would he
not have expected it? and would not a
loving eye have immediately pounced upon
her signal ? 'And when I saw the immense
waves and the little boat with its brave
crew, oh, Frank, how I trembled !'

But wasn't the sea breaking heavily
over the pier ?' he stammered, trying to
keep the conversation at a commonplace
level.

No, I don't think so. And you saved
them all, Frank ! Didn't it make you feel
very happy ?'

I daresay we should have felt happy if
it hadn't been for the two poor fellows who
were drowned. And that reminds me I
have something to thank you for. I hear
you have been exceedingly kind to their
families. The Quirks, too, tell me you
have given them a very large sum. It's
very good of you indeed. I only wish I
could have helped them myself

But,' interrupted Diana, with a pleading
smile, ^ isn't it the same thing, Frank, when
your wife has helped them ?'

He made no answer, but kept his face

turned steadily away from her. Frank
was beginning to realise that the accomplished
fact, against which he had so long
rebelled, would prove too strong for him
in the end, but he could not yet bring himself
to yield. Diana, on the other hand,
was slowly but surely becoming convinced
that she had set herself an impossible
J}ask, and yet she struggled against it quite
as desperately as he did. There was a
certain similarity between his case and
hers which sometimes entered her head to
be indignantly repelled ; for was there ever
a woman who did not consider herself
exceptional? She would make him love
her ; she would not let him go. And so
Diana nailed her colours to the mast and
fired away.

'Oh, Frank,' she cried, 'how long
is this to continue ? Are we never,

never to be united? The tiling is done
and can't be undone. Do you hate me
so ?'

Hate you, Diana. Oh, why won't you
understand ?'

Then what is to be the end of it ?
Come with me, my husband,' she pleaded,
laying her hand on his arm, with her
beautiful face looking coaxingly into his.
Come with me to your home and mine.
See, there it is ! Mother is at the door
waiting to receive us. Come, Frank ! Dodo
come now !'

Unfortunately for Diana, she was interrupted
by several lads rushing wildly
across the market-place, which had hitherto
contained only herself, Frank, and Bobby
Beg. They appeared to be racing for Dr.
My 1 worry's house. As soon as one of them
reached it, the others stopped and began

VOL. III. F

to chatter. There was evidently something
amiss.

A soldier pushed his head out of one of
the windows of the barracks.

What's the matter ?' he cried.

shot,' was all that could be heard.

'Who?'

But the answer was inaudible.

CHAPTER IV.

THE LAST Steam.

At high tide the extremity of Langness is
broken up into several joints by narrow
galleys which connect the bay with the sea
outside. The joints are small islets placed
end to end, covered with spongy grass and
guarded on every side by dangerous crags.
The last of them, the Skerranes, has no
grass and is often partly submerged. The
whole series forms a slight curve facing; the
town.

It was upon the inner side of this

f2

curve that the Goshawk had been wrecked.
A large staff of men, engaged to save the
military stores she had brought, were
employed upon her all morning, while
a considerable number of spectators lined
the grassy headland behind. But about
one o'clock there arose a shout that she
was moving. As they watched, the hulk,
lightened of part of her cargo, floated on
the incoming tide, glided off the rock, and
with a plunge sank in deep water, only
a few bubbles and spars marking the
spot where she had gone down. Fortunately,
there was nobody on board at the
time.

There being nothing more to see, the
spectators presently returned home, and
the salvage men soon afterwards followed,
leaving the rescued articles in charge of
a sentry who had been sent over by Captain

Nugent. It was a strange scene, this
solitary soldier standing like some scarlet
ibis by the side of the glistening sea ; on
the brown rocks close by, a melancholy
collection of damaged guns, ammunition,
cabin fittings, spars and ropes ; the caves
on either hand opening their great black
mouths as if they would devour him ;
over yonder across the bay, the town and
the row of watchful hills behind, sunlit
to-day, dark as they were yesterday ;
and away to the left, the Stack and a
long ranee of headlands mero^ins; in the
Calf

One of the peculiarities of the island
is, that almost as soon as children can
walk they tumble into a boat and paddle
off to sea. The old hen, running frantically
about the shore, may cluck after her

daring ducklings in vain ; away they go
making no end of a delightful splash. Oh,
yes, they return — sometimes, at any rate :
casually about meal-time. In this connection
it may not be inappropriate to add
that there are very few Manx sailors who
can swim; so, when anybody falls into
the water, there is seldom anybody to pull
Kim out.

Shortly after the Goshawk sank, Georgie
Colquitt and a number of other boys borrowed
a fisherman's skiff and started to
row across the bay. The oldest of them
was fourteen and the youngest nine ; a
finer collection of young pickles never
went afloat. When stroke was struggling
with an oar high above his head, bow was
lying in the bottom of the boat — bowled
over by a crab, and the rest were roaring
with laughter. The coxswain issued the

most contradictory orders which were
never obeyed, and, when the crew got
tired, they amused themselves by trying
how near they could go to upsetting the
skiff without actually doing it. In brief,
they had rare fun.

Though one after the other had a turn
at the oars, it took them a long time to
accomplish their two-mile journey. When
at length they approached their destination,
Georgie Colquitt was sitting on the
knees of another little fellow in the stern ;
two of the older boys were rowing, and
half-a-dozen bright young eager faces were
hanging over the gunwale like flowers ina
vase.

The sentry, pacing with shouldered rifle
by the side of the Avreckage on the rock,
challenged the party. He had strict orders,
he called out to them, not to allow anybody

to approach. If they did so, he was bound
to fire.

The merry little crew rowed on, laughing,
not believing a word he said.

The sentry, lowering his rifle, repeated
his warning.

It was received with laughter as before.

For the third time the sentry warned
them ; bringing his rifle to the ' Present ' in
order to emphasis his words.

The boastful of bright faces continued to
advance.

The sentry's finger tightened on the
trigger : and as it did so, the skiff's bow
sank and the stern rose on the top of a
wave. There followed a sharp crack which
was echoed among the rocks, the deadly
whizz of a bullet, and Georgie Colquitt fell
forward, to the speechless horror of his
companions who were spattered with his

blood. With terror-filled eyes, they gazed
at the crimson stream which was flowing
into the bottom of the boat, and at the
head which was bowed over it. The merry
young crew had been stricken dumb and
motionless.

At length, one little fellow faltered :

Georgie, are you badly hurt ? Georgie,
Georgie, look up.'

But Georgie never looked up again, for
the bullet had struck him full in the centre
of the forehead.

It never occurred to his young companions
that he was dead; they could not
think of such a thing as possible. A bad
wound they could understand, but not the
sleep that knows no waking. It was the
sight of so much blood, which flowed as if
it never would stop, that numbed their
energies ; they felt that Georgie must be

very seriously hurt indeed, and, not daring
to lay a hand upon him, they sat there like
terrified mice, while the boat rocked to and
fro on the sunlit water.

The sentry, a young Irishman, was
almost as nerveless as they were. At the
inquest afterwards, he said he had aimed
above the skiff, but, as already mentioned,
it rose at the moment he fired, and the
unfortunate boy was sitting above his companions
: two things which contributed
towards the accident, for such it must be
considered. At any rate, the soldier, who
was merely obeying orders, was exonerated
by the Court from all blame.

The two Quirks who had not heard of
the fate of the Goshawk and had come to
see it, now appeared upon the grassy headland
behind. In response to the sentry's
call, they descended to the rocks below and

scrambled over the slippery seaweed to the
spot where he stood. It took some time
to make them understand what had
happened, such a catastrophe being quite
new to their experience. Before they
could rouse themselves to act, they had to
take a long hard stare at the boat with its
crew of white marble statuettes.

But when it was eventually brought
alongside the rocky ledge, partly prepared
though they were for the sight that met
their gaze, the two great strong fellows
who had faced many a gale and lost many
a shipmate, began to tremble like women.
Only the knowledge that there was work
for them to do sustained them. With a
glance at one another, they lifted the boys
out of the skiff and set them down a few
yards away.

Get home as fast as you can, my good

lads,' said the elder brother, kindly, ' A
walk'll stretch your legs a bit. But mind,
don't breathe a syllable to a soul. Leave
that to us. Nay, you've no call to be
frightened ; you're not to blame at all.'

With this comforting assurance, the sincerity
of which he did not pause to question,
he sent them off, and the white-faced
little fellows crept homewards in awed
silence, a sad contrast to their merriment
at starting.

this is a dreadful job,' said John
Quirk, when he had seen the full extent
of the disaster.

Ay, that it is, John,' returned Thomas.

Get in, lad. The sooner it's done, the
letter.'

So they pushed off and rowed the skiff
back to the harbour as speedily as possible.
Pulling alongside a small schooner, they

borrowed a tarpaulin and laid it over the
white young face which had been staring
up at the blue sky during the dreary
journey. While debating what they should
do next, they saw Major Chris tore on the
quay, and summoned him to their assistance.


He never looked more like a one-armed
baronet than he did then, walking by
the side of John Quirk as stiffly as if
impelled by springs. He treated the brothers
as roughly as if they had been to
blame : at first refused to believe them ;
and, when he had peered down into the
boat, drew back shuddering, and rattled
out his words like bullets.

In order to get rid of some lads who
were standing about, he dispatched the
whole party for Dr. Myl worry. As for
himself, he said he would go at once to

Claddagli House by the Douglas Road.
But the Quirks, who had procured a
stretcher, were to carry their burden by
a back road along the river, and so through
a lane terminating in the little recess
where the sentry was posted in front of
the lodge-gates of Government House.
They might thus escape notice altogether,
whereas, if they waited for a conveyance,
a crowd would be sure to collect. After
making these arrangements, Major Chris-tore
departed on his mission, and the
Quirks proceeded to follow his instructions.


Short as the lane is, it passes over rather
a steep hill. As the two men mounted
the one side, Mrs. Colquitt was mounting
the other. Poor old lady, her foreboding
had been strangely verified. Her imaginary
trouble had worried her enough, but

here was a terribly real one advancing
upon her.

When the Quirks saw her, they were
thunderstruck. It was too late to retreat,
for she was quite close to them, and, the
narrow lane being still further narrowed
by grassy banks climbing up the stonewalls
on either hand, they could not pass
until she moved out of their way. Stepping
on to the grass, they stood there with
their heads hanging down, and the stretcher
between them swaying.

Mrs. Colquitt — who, remember, thought
she could read the future — looked with a
curious smile at the tarpaulin which covered
her dead son. Though a mother's
instinct is often placed at an exceedingly
high level, far above any rational faculty,
it was here altogether at fault. This stout
dressy old lady stopped merely because,

being a little out of breath, she considered
it a favourable opportunity to rest and
talk.

What have you got there. Quirk ?' she
asked.

Nothing', ma'am, no thin,' stammered
John Quirk, not daring to raise his eyes
from the ground.

^ ' How can you tell me such a wicked
story!' she said, pleasantly. His answer
having given her curiosity a great impetus,
she was determined to see what lay beneath
that tarpaulin. ' I hear Mrs. Swimming is
going to give a big dinner. Is she planning
some grand surprise ? and is it fish for
her you have ? Come, Quirk, I know it's
fish.'

No, ma'am, no.'

Then what is it that you make so much
mystery about ?'

Neither of the brothers answered. They
were almost frantic, half-inclined to make
a rush past.

I declare said Mrs. Colquitt, playfully
advancing towards them, ' 1 will see.' And
she laid her hand on the tarpaulin.

'For God's sake, ma'am, don't touch it,'
gasped John Quirk. ' Don't lay a finger
on it. Don't look, whatever you do. Go
right away back to the house, my poor
lady, and Heaven help you ! for we'll be
after you soon enough.'

Aye, go home, do, Mistress Colquitt,'
added Thomas.

She gave them a startled look, and then
the awful truth burst upon her. The
tarpaulin would not be there if the smallest
spark of life remained, and what it
covered could only be her son. The
stricken mother uttered no cry ; showed no

VOL. III. G

sign of weakness except in lier deathlike
face ; but turned and walked quietly on
before the two fishermen and their burden.
She left the gate open for them to enter
after her, and, standing at the sitting-room
door so that no one should come out,
waited for them in the hall. In a back
room sat her husband listening to the
pitiful tale which Major Christorey, thinking
he had plenty of tire, was gently
breaking to him. But this she did not
know, as she kept guard over the door.
When the fishermen went upstairs as she
directed, not by speech, but by gesture,
she followed, and, as soon as they had set
down their burden and departed, tottered
in alone to her dead son.

It was the general opinion that Mrs.
Colquitt who had been depressing enough
before, would henceforth be intolerable.

But the general opinion was completely
mistaken, for the suddenness and severity
of the shock made her a different woman.
From that day, she was seldom heard to
utter a complaint, and, though actual cheerfulness
was not in her nature, she jealously
kept her grief to herself, instead of trying
to get others to share it.

Though the mature character is not
easily influenced, there was a good reason
for the change in Mrs. Colquitt. She had
spent the greater part of her married life
in pining for a grievance ; failing in this,
she had industriously manufactured dummies
and thrust them in the faces of her
family and friends ; when the bank failed, she
was able to collar her husband and belabour
him for what he had never done ; but,
when Georgie was taken from her, there
was a painful gap in her life and nothing

g2

left to her but regret. It was her first
sorrow, and she bowed her head beneath
the blow. When you hear a man prating
in the street about his poverty, do not
believe him ; a hundred to one he has
more money in his pocket than you have.
The really poor man hides himself away in
his gloomy attic, afraid lest even there a
stray sunbeam should detect his shabby
clothes. So it was with Mrs. Colquitt,
who had flaunted her dummies before the
world, but, when trouble actually overtook
her, mourned over it in secret and wore a
cheerful face in public.

Of course, this did not happen quite at
first, for it took her some time to recover
from the shock. Not that she had to keep
to her bed ; there were far too many things
to do — such things as she felt must be
done under her own superintendence.

Her husband did very little to help her.
Sincerely as he lamented the loss of his
son, he sat by the fire-side and kept his
toes warm. If he were to trot about in
the cold, it would not benefit poor little
Georgie; there was surely no need to
mingle grief with discomfort. So Mr. Col-quite
grieved comfortably, huddled in a
heap on his chair so as to catch as much
heat from the fire as possible. There was
nothing heartless about the old fellow ; it
was merely his way. Whenever his wife
entered the room, he watched her furtively
as if expecting something unpleasant to
follow, for he had led a miserable life since
the skeleton incident. But all that was
changed now ; she was too much engrossed
with her trouble to think of nagging at
him, and he was agreeably surprised at
the gentleness that had come over her.

This could not but re-act upon him. For
instance, lie once offered to go out in the
rain for her, and, instead of sending him,
as she used to delight to do, often when
there was no occasion for it, she sent Cain
the Leg, who at any rate had one less limb
in which to get rheumatism.

During the dark days immediately
following Georgie's death, Nessie, who had
recovered from her illness, was the greatest
comfort to her mother. Her old trouble
sank into insignificance beside this which
had clouded all their lives, and by trying
to brighten them she brightened her own.
It was but little she could do for them,
merely a tender word occasionally, or a
gentle touch of the hand, or a sad smile
on the pretty pale face ; and yet her sweetness
and patience worked wonders in that
darkened house. She went to and fro-with

noiseless tread, trembling as she
passed the door of the room in which her
little brother lay, but always controlling
herself bravely at the sight of her mother
and Mona, who managed everything in the
calm clear-headed way that sprang from
habit.

Briefly, then, the bundle of faggots which
had lately been in danger of being broken
up, was stronger now than it had ever
been before.

Nor was this the only effect of the
calamity that had overtaken the family, for
it restored to them their lost friends.
Every cord that Dalrymple had loosed by
the tedious work of months, was in a single
day drawn tight again by a force which no
rational creature would dream of trying to
resist. It was a sudden rush of sympathy
for the Colquitts, who were now considered

to have been hardly used, every excuse
being made for what had been held as inexcusable,
' their mercenary plot to obtain
Diana's money.' The stream flowed here
and there and everywhere ; it poured in a
flood around the house at the funeral.

An immense amount of importance was
formerly attached to a funeral in the island.
A-t the mention of one, there will arise
before the eyes of any old Manxman the
vision of a gloomy throng gathering from
all quarters, wearing a sombre costume,
which on a week-day plainly shows their
errand. They are collecting to pay the
last tribute of respect to the dead ; a thing
that no one who has the least acquaintance
with the family would neglect to do.
From far and near they come, from yonder
hills where the smoke from their peat-fires
is curling into the air, from the cosy homesteads

scattered about the wavy landscape,
from heath-clad glens through which streamlets
rush joyously to the sandy beach, from
the quiet town where the vessels in the
harbour are flying their flags at half-mast,
a motley throng of men and lads, some in
carriages, gigs, farmers' carts or shandy
others on horseback, and others again
on foot ; some dressed in ordinary mourning,
and others wearing rough tall hats
and swallow-tail coats of dark-blue frieze.

One cold January morning, when the
bells of St. Mary were tolling their mournful
message — Bobby Beg at the ropes, of
all people in the world — it was just such a
crowd that gathered in front of Claddagh
House, only it was swollen by many of
the soldiers, who were present at Captain
Nugent's request, and also by the officers
and crew of the Goshawk, If the unfortunate

lad had lived to a great age, he could
hardly have received as much respect ashe
did by his early death. The great
number of persons of every class who were
present gave his mother a strange sort of
pleasure ; though she did not come downstairs,
she knew they were there by the
incessant roll of vehicles and the tramp of
footsteps on the gravel. She was proud
that her Georgie should be so honoured.

All the necessary duties on this occasion
were performed by her husband. There
was a very dreadful custom of providing
cake and wine, and even more substantial
food and stronger drinks for those who
chose to take them. And, oh ! what a
sickening sight it Alas to see men eating
and drinking in that gloomy room, while
upstairs hearts were being wrung, and eyes
were so dim with tears that they could

scarcely take their last look at him they
loved !

But at last the hearse, with its waving
plumes, slowly moved off, and by degrees
the long train got into motion. It passed
through the town, and then along the
Maleww Road. Mrs. Colquitt, drawing aside
the blind to press her tear-stained face
against the window of the silent house,
could just see it, and derived some gratification
from its length. And so poor
little Georgie went his last journey — 'over
the church-stile,' as the Manx say.

Among those present, there was at least
one man sufficiently self-possessed to consider
how the event would affect him.
This man was Fabian Dalrymple, whose
love can be described only as the concentrated
essence of selfishness. When he
thought of the great expense incurred by

the Colquitts, and their impoverished condition
before, he said to himself :

It's the last straw that breaks the
camel's back.'

CHAPTER V.

UPS AND DOWNS.

One afternoon in May Mr. Colquitt, wandering
into the garden, came upon Cain
the Leg, who was limply hanging over his
spade.

'Have you seen any birds-nests yet?'
asked Mr. Colquitt.

'Well, no, sir,' replied Cain the Leg,
thoughtfully regarding his master. ' I've
never lis up my eyes to look for them.
But,' added he, nth some idea of turning

an honest penny, ' will you be wanting'
any?'

No, no, it doesn't matter.'

'I can look anyway,' urged Cain the
Leg, ' an' maybe I shall hin' some. There's
noj^nowin'.'

I don't Avant them,' said Mr. Colquitt,
curtly, as he walked away.
- Slowly drawing the back of his hand
across his mouth, Cain the Leg looked
after him.

'Th' soul' boy,' he said to himself, 'is
growed a bit quieter o' late, an' the mistress
isn't half that cantankerous neither.
Well, well, it's an ill win' as blows nobody
good.'

Chewing this crumb of comfort, he
leaned on his spade and gazed steadily at
the ground for another half-hour.

Mr. Colquitt had, stored away in some

dark corner, a collection of birds-eggs, to
which his ife lead the strongest objection
on account of the cruelty involved in getting
them. It was for her sake that he
had resisted the present temptation ; yet
not entirely for hers, also for his own.
Now that she no longer worried him without
cause, he saw the advantage of not
giving offence, and was much more careful
in his acts and words. In fact, husband
and wife had at last come to see that
matrimonial bliss must be founded upon
reciprocity.

Morally, then, the situation had greatly
improved during the past few months ;
but, financially, it was nearly as bad as it
could be, and the one tended to counteract
the other, peace of mind being an excellent
sauce for broken victuals. At present
Mona was able to shield her parents and

sister a little ; there were many difficulties
which, unknown to them, this practical
girl resolutely grappled with and overcame ;
but the dark future that was looming
ahead made her shudder. How were they
to meet it? In despair Mona fell hack
upon a woman's remedy for every ailment
a wedding. Having already dabbled in
the gentle quackery which is so inviting
to the fair sex, she proposed to doctor the
family with a compound pill of her own
manufacture, and this pill was to be the
marriage of Nessie and Ned. As for herself,
she intended, when her mission was
accomplished, to seek for a situation as
governess.

When the spring gave way to summer,
Mona, having previously ascertained
Nessie's objection to marriage, commenced
a course of logical treatment. There were

plenty of illustrations ready to lier hand.
The peasantry took a very business-like
view of matrimony, an engagement being
often broken off because one side or the
other refused to throw in another pig or a
sheep. Nessie knew all about this, yet
saw nothing wrong in it ; she was so accustomed
to it that she regarded it as a
mere matter of course. Then, asked Mona,
how could it be wrong in her case if not
in theirs ? Was she so very different from
the people who belonged to her own race ?
Was there one standard for them and another
for her ? If so, where was the line
drawn ? Besides, she was not asked to
marry anybody she disliked ; she liked
them — Mona was apparently urging her
sister to commit bigamy — and they more
than liked her, and the rest Avould certainly
follow. Of course, the more love one

VOL. III. H

took into married life, the more capital
one lead to draw upon ; but then if the
balance at the bank should be small at the
outset, it could be largely augmented by
careful management. Apart from all these
considerations, which were entirely personal,
there was the welfare of her father
and mother to be thought of. Was it not
her duty to make some little sacrifice of
her own feelings for their sake ?

At first Nessie listened to Mona's arguments
with absolute pain, but after a time
she became so used to them that her mind
kept turning them over almost mechanically.
During this process they grew like
a snowball, until at length her resolution
began to yield beneath their weight.
When she saw her mother so changed, uncomplainingly
carrying her heavy burden,
she yearned to do something to gladden

her heart. After all, she kept asking herself
was not her objection prompted by
selfishness ? Mona would never advise
her to do what was really wrong. • If so
oh, that she could see her way clearly.

There was another influence at work
with Nessie. When she witnessed the
kindness of everybody, she could not but
contrast it with what she was being led to
regard as her own hardness of heart.
There was Dalrymple, who visited her
several times a week and was exceedingly
attentive to her mother ; and good old
Ned who came in sometimes in his own
bashful way ; and Diana, who had proved
herself a true friend in their trouble ; and
many, many more. And Frank ? No, he
had not yet been able to reduce himself to
the level of an ordinary friend, and so
thought it better to hold aloof.

II 2

But in another way Frank was decidedly
progressing. His successful defence of
Clao^ue had brought him a o^ood deal of
legal business, and this, strangely enough,
had been greatly increased by his share in
the rescue of the GosJiaiulcs crew, for the
young advocate who had risked his life to
save others was thought worthy of every,
encouragement. It became the fashion to
engage his services, so he was kept pretty
hard at work. He was not only rising in
his profession, but also making money.
Estimated by the result of the spring
months, his income was a very fair one
indeed — quite enough for a young married
man to live upon. And this was the sting
of it, for he had fallen into the dangerous
habit of placing each incident as it cropped
up — just to see how it would look — in the
life he had depicted for himself and Nessie.

It was this that kept him still struggling
against his fate, only giving way so very
gradually that Diana had almost abandoned
hope.

With the improvement of his prospects,
Frank tried to induce his uncle to take
down the doorplate again and return to his
old life of hobbies, comfortable messes, and
pleasant naps in the easy-chair. But the
old man would not hear of such a thing ;
now that he had got into harness once more,
he was very loth to leave it off. The fact
of the matter was, he had made a hobby
of his work. He liked to be pottering at
something, and, when it brought in a little
money, he had the satisfaction of feeling
that he was helping the coach forward.
Now and again he got something to do,
but not very often, for his exertions towards
the close of the year had made such a drain

upon his strength that his friends could
not venture to trust anything important
in his hands. As a rule, the clients that
came to him were a queer lot-with
queer cases which afforded him immense
delight.

One morning there slouched into his
office a tall rough country-looking fellow,
with a freckled face and bright red hair
which had evidently been cropped under a
basin. He carried a soft hat in his hand,
and, when invited to take a seat, carefully
placed it on the chair and sat on it. By
the sly way in which he rubbed his chin —
shaven, as Jacob noted for future reference
it was clear he thought himself a very
funny fellow. He announced himself as
John James Kelly.

'■ And your business ?' inquired the old
advocate, sitting pen in hand.

I want the High Bailiff took up replied
Kelly.

Indeed ! Who sent you to me ?'

Major Christorey.'

Mr. Maddrell chuckled. Here was
another fight between those fiery old
antagonists. He entered into it with great
zest, taking such copious notes that many
sheets were soon covered with his illegible
scratches, and parting nth his new client
in the most cordial manner.

Kelly had scarcely left the office when he
came running back in a great hurry, his
face as white as a sheet.

I want to swear the peace again Dick
Plague,' he said, excitedly.

Why ?' said Jacob, stroking his beard
with grave surprise, ' what has he been
doing?'

^ Down' enough, I reckon. When I got

outside the door, I found' him waiting' forme,
and what should he do but up with
his fist and threaten to clout me? He's
a dangerous fellow, that. I didn't want to
fight him at all, so I just stepped back to
swear the peace again him.'

But why should he wait for you ?'

^ He says he buried some money in a
fiel' near the wine-mill, an' it's gone an' I
took it, he says, which is a lie, for I know
nothing' about any money. Likely enough,
he was drunk. Anyway, a sober man
must have protection again the like of
him.'

Anxious not to goad a desperate man,
Jacob counselled gentler measures. Kelly
eventually consenting, he went to the
door and spoke to Plague who departed
scowling.

Whether or not Plague had actually lost

any money as he said, the sum which he
had recovered from the bank seemed to
have come to an end about this time.
Since taking to drink, he had been careless
enough about his clothes, but he now
degenerated into a dreadful scarecrow, his
gaunt figure being hung about with dirty
rags, with a flaming face set on top.
Moreover, instead of frequenting the inside
of public-houses, he was more often seen
standing about the outside, his eyes having
that wolfish look which is so frequently
caused by a craving for drink.

It would be a good thing,' said Jacob
afterwards to Frank, ' if we could get him
shut up in Castle Rushen as a lunatic'

He's scarcely that, uncle.'

Well, I don't know. I would sooner
think of a man's head being wrong than
his heart. The worst of the law is, it

never acts until too late. We saw Plague
drifting into crime before '

*Tien you think he murdered Macdonald?'


The law acquitted him,' replied the old
man, quietly. ' And here he is clearly
drifting towards a bad end, and yet we
have no power to stop him.'

^ Frank would gladly have assisted the
man to whom he was indebted for his rise
in the world, but all his efforts in this
direction had been fruitless. When he
gave money, it was accepted without gratitude
and spent in drink ; and any other
offer was always indignantly and indeed
fiercely declined, the previous gifts having
established, as Plague was pleased to think,
a claim upon the donor. Diana had also
exerted herself to help him, but with no
better success. He had become a nuisance

to the whole town, yet no one knew how
to get rid of him.

However, the end was near at hand.
When next he appears, it will be for the
last time and at the lowest level to which
a human being could possibly sink.

CHAPTER VL

TYNWALD DAY.

On Tynwald Day, the 5th of July, there
was, as usual, a great gathering at St.
John's, which is about three miles from
Peel. From every part of the island
people went on foot, on horseback, and in
vehicles of every kind, to hear the promulgation
of the laws which the Keys had
passed during the year.

It was a blazing hot morning, yet
nobody seemed to mind that. Carriages

rattled by, full of eager faces. Farmers
jogged along in their carts, their families
sitting behind, all evidently enjoying the
sunshine. Stalwart fishermen strode along;
the dusty roads in twos and threes, seldom
slackening their pace unless it were to take
a drink at a brook. Here was a young
mother carrying her baby in her arms ;
there, a quaint old married couple hobbling
on together by the aid of two sticks apiece ;
and yonder, a merry-andrew standing on
his head, to the delight of a group) of lads
who rewarded him with an occasional
copper. Everybody was going in the same
direction.

Shortly before noon the encircling mountains
— the precipitous Slieu-Whallin quite
close at hand — looked down upon a grassy
plain thronged with people. The numerous
stalls and booths on the common which

was intersected by roads, suggested a fair
rather than a solemn State ceremony, a
relic of the distant time when the Norsemen
ruled the island. Indeed, there were
many signs of festivity ; hampers in nearly
every carriage, flasks at many a mouth,
and so on.

In the midst of the crowd rose a mound
called Tynwald Hill, constructed in three
platforms to represent the three estates,
and supposed to have been originally composed
of earth brought from each of the
seventeen parishes. It was now surmounted
by a tent over which floated the
royal standard. The circular summit of
the hill was covered with a carpet, and on
it was placed a chair for the Lieutenant-governor,
who was at this moment attending
service at St. John's Church opposite. The
steps of the church were strewn with

green rushes — an ancient custom by which
certain land was held rent free — and the
entrance was connected with Tynwald
Hill by a double row of soldiers.

Presently, along this lane came the
procession, consisting of the coroners
carrying their wands of office ; the captains
of parishes ; the clergy ; the High Bailiffs ;
the Keys, Major Christorey marching stiffly
among them; the Bishop, the Deemsters, and
the rest of the council; Captain Nugent
bearing the sword of state ; and finally the
Lieutenant-governor.

When they had all taken their places
within the space roped off for them around
the hill, the coroner of Glenfaba ' fenced
the Court,' or proclaimed silence. After
which, the senior Deemster, standing by
the side of his excellency's chair and looking
as if he would have preferred an umbrella

to a wig, proceeded to read out the
laws in English and Manx.

As a matter-of-fact, however, the people
thought the Deemster far less interesting
than the cheap-jacks. They were even
irreverent enough to like looking at the
merry-andrews better than at the Lieuten-
ant-Governor. Though there was a brightening
of faces at the sound of their native
tongue, the majority did not care a button
about this part of the business ; and were
not sorry when, the procession returning
to the church for the discussion of certain
legislative measures, they were once more
at liberty. Then they flocked back to
watch their favourites, to wander through
the stalls full of tempting things for sale,
and to enter the booths containing monstrous
men and women. Did the hardy
Norsemen do this ? There can be little

doubt they did, unless humanity has
greatly changed.

Released from his duties, Dalrymple
approached the block of vehicles on the
sides Tynwald Hill remote from the booths.
Hampers were being unpacked, and the
popping of corks mingled with the hum of
voices and frequent laughter. The conversation
showed that the carriages belonged
not to one party, as a stranger might have
supposed, but to four corresponding to the
four towns, between which there existed a
good deal of jealousy.

It was very amusing to watch the faces
of the young ladies of Douglas, Ramsey,
and Peel, as they saw their admirers
slinking away to surround a Castletown
carriage.

Who is she ?' asked an English lady,
who was paying a visit to a Mrs. Mylrea, a

VOL. III. I

married friend with marriageable daughters,
living near Douglas.

Don't you know ? oh, dear me, a horrid
creature. Inveigled a foolish young
advocate into marrying her. Pretended
she was dying, and, when she had him fast,
came to life again. There's artfulness for
you. He won't live with her, and no
wonder.'

And where is he ?'

I saw him a short time ao:o wandering;
among the crowd by himself. Poor fellow,
he leads an awful life.'

She seems very pretty.'

Pretty!' exclaimed Mrs. Mylrea, with the
utmost scorn. ' A black-eyed doll without
a particle of expression ! You call her
pretty because the men run after her.
But, dear me, they always go like sheep
when there are plenty of good things to

eat and drink, and they can get them
there. Just look at the champagne! I
never did see such extravagance.'

Who is the old lady by her side ?'

Her mother. Decked out like a gipsy !
Fancy that Indian shawl and gorgeous
jewelry on a day like this ! that's Castletown
fashion, I suppose.'

She stopped suddenly and turned very
red in the face, for she saw Frank standing,
hat in hand, by the side of the carriage.
He had been trying to attract her attention
for some little time, but she had been too
engrossed in watching Diana to notice him
until now.

Oh, how do you do, Mr. Maddrell ?'
she said, with a desperate plunge.

I beg your pardon, Mrs. Mylrea,' said
Frank awkwardly, 'but I couldn't help
catching some of your words, for I was

i2

talking to a friend close by. You were
speaking of Mrs. Maddrell ; would you
kindly remember she is my wife?'

Oh, certainly — if you wish it.'

Thank you,' said Frank. And, raising
his hat, he walked away.

'His wife indeed !' said the injured lady,
in an undertone. ' And yet he never
-lives with her! Does he remember it
himself?'

If Mrs. Mylrea's logic showed a womanly
habit of revolving on its axis in a remarkably
short space of time, her censure
was natural enough. Frank knew what
she was saying as certainly as if he had
heard it. He was angry with himself for
having spoken at all, a thing he could seldom
help doing when his feelings were
stirred, though it invariably ended in self-reproach.


It was the first time he had publicly
claimed Diana as his wife, but then it was
also the first time he had heard a word
said against her. He now saw that he was
causing her a positive injury by remaining
apart from her. The thought vexed him
exceedingly, and yet he could not quite
prevail upon himself to shatter his cherished
idol and live the life that had been
mapped out for him. If only Diana had
not deceived him, he could have borne
himself dutifully, but, as it was, ought he
to reward the wrong-doer ? He stood on
the brink and waited for a push to send
him over.

So while she sat in her carriage, the
beautiful Tehi-Tegi with the smile-lit face
xmd silvery accents which drew all men to
her feet, and never once faltered to show
what a sad heart and desolate life were hers,

Frank wandered alone among the crowd
and looked at her from a distance, just as
one dark night he had lingered outside
the High Bailiff's brilliantly lighted house
and looked through the window at Nessie.
Surely, the divided existence led by this
husband and wife was as strange as it was
pitiable !

Dalrymple, making his way among the
carriages, saw Frank moving oiF and gave
him a friendly nod. He had never got on
very intimate terms with ^ the choleric
islander,' as he used to call Frank ; there
was a remarkable embarrassment about his
manner when the two were together ; but
he had long abandoned any attempt to
create irritation. Indeed, he would have
spoken now had not Frank seemed to be
in a hurry.

Passing Diana's carriage with a formal

bow, Dalrymple arrived at an old family
coach containing Mrs. Christorey and
Nessie side by side, and Mona opposite, the
two girls being dressed in black, a trying
colour in a hot sun. It was their first
appearance at any sort of gaiety since
Georgie's death.

The major, who had planned this little
picnic for Ned's benefit, had with difficulty
persuaded them to come ; and had not
his duties detained him in the church he
would have been annoyed to see how little
Ned availed himself of his opportunities.
Another cause of annoyance would have
been the presence of Dalrymple whom he
cordially detested, and who would certainly
have kept away if the major had been
there. Mrs. Christorey was helpless in the
matter. She did not approve of her husband's
attempts at match-making, and in

any case would not have thought it right
to scare away an eligible suitor approved
by the girl's family.

Mona, also bent on match-making, was
quite in despair about Ned. He sat on
a box most of the time and seldom spoke
except to Toby. Though active enough at
lunch-time, he scarcely even glanced at
Nessie, and, when Dalrymple arrived,
abandoned her to him with apparent content.
Afterwards Mona proposed a walk to
see what was going on, but here again she
was foiled, for Ned attached himself to
her, so that Nessie and Dalrymple were
necessarily brought together. As the
gentle lady, sitting in the carriage, looked
after the retreating couples, her expression
was sad and pensive. She knew her son's
heart, and grieved for him as only a mother
can do.

After a minute or so the couples got
separated, as always seems to be the way ;
yet that handsome young officer in scarlet,
towering head and shoulders above the
crowd, with the sweet little girl in black
by his side, was a sufficiently remarkable
object.

As they threaded their way among the
people, they heard a voice singing
merrily,

The king can only drink bis sough,
And I can do the same ;
I drinks mine off without a cough,
And that's the for I came.'

Of course, the singer was Bobby Beg, in
his usual fantastic costume. He was sure
to be found in attendance upon Dalrymple,
a fact not very noticeable owing to the
fondness which he had always displayed
for the military. He was dancing with a

mug in his hand, and appeared merrier
than ever, which was not very surprising,
for a little beer went a long way
with him.

Alongside, a half-broken young horse,
decked with ribbons to show it was for
sale, was being trotted up and down, while
a group of farmers discussed its merits. A
lad, grinning from ear to ear at his own
Ait, gave Bobby Beg a push and sent him
against the horse, which began to plunge
and back, clearing a circle with its heels.
In doing so, it came into dangerous proximity
with Nessie, who found herself
wedged in between a fisherman and an old
countrywoman with a big basket. Dalrymple,
immediately behind, could do
nothing to help her, for he was as tightly
packed into the crowd as she was.

The young man in charge of the horse

seemed to have lost his wits. He dragged
at its head and hammered it With a stick,
-with the only result of making it plunge
the more. It worked gradually back until
it was opposite the frightened girl, who
could do nothing but stare at it. If it
kicked again, it could not fail to reach
her ; and, with a sudden overpowering
shock of horror, she saw it was going to
kick.

Dalrymple saw it, too. Looking round
desperately, he caught sight of the old
woman's basket. As quick as thought he
snatched it from her and held it before
Nessie, which his great height enabled him
to do with ease. At the same moment the
horse let out with its heels. The spectators
watched breathless and then burst into a
cheer, for the blow was received by the
basket, and, the crowd giving way behind,

Dalrymple was enabled to drag Nessie out
of further danger.

Oh, Mr. Dalrymple,' panted Nessie,
^ how can I thank you ?'

Some day, perhaps, I'll tell you,' he
replied, looking right into the hazel
eyes.

The blood rushed back into her whiteface
and she drew away the hand which he
had thoughtlessly retained. Though the
act itself was the reverse of encouraging,
there was something in her gentle way of
doing it that made him glow with
pleasure.

It was so brave, so clever of you,' she
said, hastily.

I'm afraid you think too highly of me,
Miss Nessie.'

Oh, but I couldn't do that. I mean —
you know what I mean. I'm quite sure the

dreadful animal would have killed me but
for you.'

Oh, dear, no,' he said, carelessly. And
then, not wishing to damage his own cause,
he added : ' I daresay we should have
managed to escape without injury in any
case.'

I did feel so frightened,' said Nessie,
shuddering. ' I can never, never thank you
enough, and I know Mona will say the
same when she hears of it. There she is.
Mona ! Mona ! And see, here comes the
old woman with the broken basket.'

A gift of a sovereign gained for him the
woman's outspoken gratitude and raised
him still higher in Nessie's estimation.

After this incident Dalrymple felt sure
that his success was merely a question of
time, if only he could afford to wait for it.
Herein lay the difficulty. Anxious as he

was not to spoil this chance by precipitation
as Ned had done, there was a thorny secret
goading him onward. For the last six
months he had lived in a state of anxiety
and suspense, not free from occasional self-reproach.
He knew he was treading on a
mine which might be exploded at any
moment, to the destruction of all his hopes
and stratagems ; and perhaps the worst
part of his torture was that, if he had acted
like an honest man, his hand should have
exploded it long ago. He could not do
that ; he had gone too far to retreat ; he
must advance.

And yet he had to advance at a snail's
pace, as he saw with a fever of impatience.
To him the changes that were taking place
in Nessie's mind were as plain as the pages
of a book. Day after day he watched her
and helped her in the way he wished her to

go. He saw lier liking for him gathering
strength under the influence of gratitude
and kindly attention ; her objections to
marriage yielding before Mona's arguments,
and her readiness to consent to the wishes
of her family growing rapidly at the sight
of her mother's resignation. When these
feelings should have matured, he intended
to stretch forth his hand to grasp his
prize. .

It has often been observed that noteworthy
events are gregarious. Though the
connection may not always be easy to see,
they come 4n battalions.' It is like a
landslip ; the mass of loose earth and stones
descending a little way at first, then waiting
a while to descend again, and after a
final pause crashing into the valley with a
force that carries everything before it.

How far this was true of Castletown

remains to be seen. But towards the close
of September a series of more or less
exciting events brought matters to an unexpected
crisis, and forced Dairy male to
act at once.

CHAPTER VII.

CHAINED TO A ROCK.

^ There are only two faults I find in you,
Frank,' said his uncle, clasping his hands
after dinner and leaning back in the 
chair to turn those grave pale
blue eyes of his upon his nephew. * One
is, that you won't live with your wife ; and
the other, that you will persist in shaving
off the gift of Providence. Now,' added
the old man, who apparently considered
the latter sin the more heinous of the two,

VOL. Ill, K

leaving the Scriptural argument out of
the question, for that seems to have little
weight with you, let us look at the practical
advantages of a beard. I have just been
reading some statistics on the subject. It
is found that in all metal works the men
who wear beards live far the longest. Why ?
Because the small particles of metal, instead
of entering their mouths and poisoning
their lungs, are arrested by the hairs which
Providence has given them for that purpose.
Get over that if you can, Frank !
Then again there are very few consumptive
patients with beards. Why? Because
wise men retain the natural protection for

their throats, but fools Goodness

gracious, what s the meaning of that uproar
in the kitchen?'

Cook besieged by rats, I suppose,' replied
Frank.

Then I must go to her assistance,' said
Jacob, trotting off in the direction whence
the shrieks proceeded.

Frank left the house in a very unsettled
mood. It was not the first allusion his
uncle had lately made to the relations
between husband and wife, and the fact
that on each occasion he had glanced off"
from the subject immediately, showed how
much he was troubled about it. Why not
put an end to it all? Well, it was awkward
to take the first step, and then there
was that tyrant, public ridicule. So,
altogether, Frank's ideas would not come
right.

It was a dark and lustre afternoon, with
black masses of cloud, tossing in the blue
ocean overhead. The tide being low, the
bay looked inexpressibly dreary : a grey-shagreen
monster which ever and anon

k2

showed its gleaming fangs and with a
ceaseless moan roamed up and down the
shore like a famished wolf, turning over
the seaweed on the reefs and diving into
the gulleys in the vain search for a belated
sunbeam.

Leaving; the town, Frank walked alone;
the beach towards Langness. When he
reached the strip of rough grass-land where
races were once run for ' a plate of the
value of five pounds sterling (the fashion
included,' he happened to look across the
bay at Scarlettt, and the old lime-kiln there
reminded him of an anecdote which seemed
not inapplicable to his own case.

It related to the days of the seventh Earl
of Derby, the one who instituted the races.
Stanlagh Moor,' or the Great Stanley, as
the Manx call the unfortunate nobleman
who was executed at Bolton-le-Moors,,

appointed as his lieutenant a certain John
Greenhouse. Distressed at the poverty
of the farmers and their ignorant way of
farming, this energetic Governor had a
lime-mihi built in order to show them how
to improve their lands. When the news
of this strange thing got abroad, the people
came in crowds from every part of the island
to see rocks burning like peat ; and then,
thinking they had discovered a speedy way
of converting their patches of bog or
mountain into fertile fields, they rushed
back to their homes and made ' earth-pots'
everywhere. But, instead of using limestone,
they threw in blocks of basalt and
schist and sandstone, and whatever else
they could lay their hands on ; and were
startled out of their wits because these
obstinate rocks refused to turn white like
the Governor s. There was clearly something

wrong here. John Greenhouse was
wizard, without doubt, the fairies had
changed his rocks and would not change
theirs. Plague take the little things !
Thus argued the puzzled old Manxmen^
who, by the way, seemed to have been
much more hasty in their conclusions than
their descendants are.
- It was just such a fairy that Frank
wanted. If she would come to him, and,
with a wave of her magic wand, whiten the
stubborn rocks, how pleasant it would be !
But he had a suspicion that he had been
using basalt instead of limestone. To do
any good with that limestone of his ought
he not to turn the whole lot out and refill
the kiln ?

Arrived at Langness, Frank went down
on the shore and pottered about near the
water's edge. A low reef on each side of

Mm formed a lane to the sea, which was
rising rapidly beneath the lash of the wind.
Lifting up the fringe of long brown seaweed
hanging from the rock, Frank discovered
a hole which at once suggested a
crab.

I'll have him out,' said Frank, tucking
up his sleeves.

The hole was about level with his
shoulder and just wide enough to admit
his hand. When investigated, it turned
out to be pretty deep. Frank pushed his
arm in as far as it would go, when he suddenly
winced and changed colour.

Instead of getting him,' he said, ^ Mr.
Crab has got me.'

Except perhaps a shrimp, there is no
creature more perverse than a crab, as its
absurd gait testifies. A cautious old fisherman
like Jonathan Yondyy would never

dream of trying to persuade it with any
softer argument than an iron hook, but
careless young fellows like Frank frequently
use their hands — sometimes to the
detriment of their symmetry. The pitcher
that has gone many a journey to the well,
has always been pointed at as a foolhardy
utensil, certain to come to a bad end.

The occupant of the hole, an immense
crab, had taken Frank's invitation to come
out, in a very unfriendly spirit. It had
nipped him by the wrist, and, as it had
previously wedged itself sideways, it
evidently meant to stay where it was.
There was no chance of dragging it out ;
and none, as everyone acquainted with this
tenacious species Avill admit, of its relaxing
its hold. If a finger had been seized,
instead of a large object like the wrist,
more harm would have been done. As it

was, the pain, though severe, was quite
endurable.

So far Frank saw no cause to be alarmed
about his position. It was decidedly unpleasant,
of course, and rather ignominious,
but nothing more. If he could attract the
notice of somebody, it Avould be easy
enough to get away with no worse damage
than a lacerated wrist. But where was
that somebody ? Carefully as he scanned
Langness, the race-course, and the bleak
stretch of rocks around, he could not see a
single person. Across the bay, opposite
yonder row of white-washed cottages, or
peeping above the sea-wall in front of
Claddagh House, a few moving figures
were just visible, but they were much too
far away to be of any use. Well, he must
wait ; somebody would be sure to come
along presently.

Frank had scarcely arrived at this conclusion
when a gust of wind carried his
hat off, and, as he looked after it, he experienced
a sudden shock of horror. The
sea was rapidly approaching ! Long before
high tide, the reefs on either side would be
under water. There was a savage glee in
the way in which the waves advanced,
tumbling over one another in their eagerness
to get at their victim. Out yonder
they fought with one another for want of
anything better to do ; but here in this
narrow passage they swept onward with a
cruel determined purpose which made
Frank shudder. Now they were splashing
about his feet, shaking the seaweed as a
terrier shakes a rat ; now, they had reached
his knees ; higher and higher they rose
until, tottering beneath their blows, he
suffered fresh agonies from his wounded

hand. When one is warm and comfortable,
it is easy to be brave and hopeful ; but
Frank, chilled to the bone, began to feel
something very like despair, as his eyes
vainly searched the land for assistance.

As the blood-red sun sank in the west,
an angry glare of crimson shot across the
sky, and the hill-tops blazed as if the
beacons had been kindled which used to
announce the approach of the dreaded
rover, Phynn Scowls. Very shortly
after sunset, however, the bright colours
faded, leaving a sombre grey with smutty
masses of black. It was the commencement
of a stormy evening. The wind went
by with a mocking scream ; the clouds
scudded rapidly overhead; and the sea
danced in cruel sport around its victim
who alone appeared motionless, bound helplessly
to the rock.

Should the worse come to the worst,
Frank had decided to make a desperate
attempt to tear off his hand. But not yet ;
no, he could not do that until the very
last moment — not until the water had risen
so high that he must get away or be
drowned. He selected first one level and
then another, always a little higher each
time. Even now a wave sometimes broke
over his head. But, gasping for breath, he
told himself he would not do it yet — he
would wait a few moments longer.

At such a time, some strange thoughts
some into one's head. Among other
things, it occurred to Frank that his death
would solve not only his own difficulties
but also those of his friends. When he
was gone, Nessie would have no reason for
remaining single ; Ned would have nothing
to restrain him from asking her to become

his wife, which she would be sure to do ;
and Diana would be released from a husband
who could never love her. Would
she marry again ? He did not think so.
As he looked into that wonderful and
indeed almost inconceivable future which
was to exist after his death, he always saw
Nessie married and Diana single. The
former of these visions was too painful to
contemplate long ; the latter was distinctly
pleasurable. This was very selfish of him,
no doubt ; yet has not many a better man
found such thoughts passing through his
mind ? Time marriage knot was so very, very
nearly broken that Frank, looking back
before he had to take the final leap, felt he
might admit that he still loved Nessie.

'No starving man ever looked into a
baker s shop with a fiercer craving than
gleamed from Frank's eyes as he turned

them for the last time upon the grim rocks
and grassy headland behind. Like some
huge polypus, the relentless sea was flinging
its many arms around him and gradually
drawing him down into its capacious
maw, only his head and shoulders being
visible now. The hoarse laughter of the
cughtagh^ or cave-spirit, came to him on
the mind which was rising every minute,
and the waves splashed scornfully in his
face and hissed in his ears. It was clearly
time to do something if he would save
his life, but what a dreadful something it
was !

Suddenly his heart almost stopped
beating ; for there, on Langness, stood a
woman. So great was his excitement that
when he tried to call out, he could not do
so, and, as he struggled with his voice, a
wave passed over him and hid her from him.

Then ensued a wild conflict between hope
and despair. Would she be there when
next he looked ? Yes, there she was,
distinct enough in the twilight. But, even
if she came to him, how could she help
him?

Loudly as he shouted, his voice sounded
as a feeble wail amid that strife of wind and
water. Yet she heard it and started ; gazed
this way and that ; and finally noticing the
hand he was waving, paused but a moment
before she hurried down the cliff and began
to run across the slippery rocks as if she
was used to them.

Frank, watching her with desperate
eagerness, wondered at her intelligence no
less than at her speed. But, as she came
nearer, his wonderment vanished, for he
recognised Diana, whose journey along the
beach on the night of the Wattersons'

dance flashed into his mind, just as it had
already flashed into hers.

Diana had lately taken to wandering
about the coast by herself. Between her
fits of feverish gaiety, she also seemed to
find a sense of relief in the companionship
of the sea. Though the purpose which
subsequently developed itself had not yet
assumed any definite shape, it was doubtless
forming without her volition. Sitting
sometimes on the rocks at Scarlettt and
sometimes at Langness, she would watch
the passing vessels as if they might be
bringing her some welcome message. But
alas, they all went down to their haven
under the sea, and left her in bitter loneliness.
Was there no way of escape out of
all this misery ? Diana had spent many
and many a weary hour in pondering this
question.

Frank !' she panted, kneeling on the
reef above him. ' Oh, Frank, why do you
stand there ?'

Because I can't help myself,' he replied,
with a feeble smile. shave you got' —
Here he disappeared beneath a wave
which made Diana, heedless of her wet
garments, clutch at him as if not even the
cruel sea should tear him from her. He
came up gasping. * Don't be afraid,' he
said. ' There's no harm done yet. Have
you a parasol? No. Then could you
find a stick — or something to crush a
big crab — which has got hold of my
hand?'

Diana stood up shuddering. With her
hands tightly clasped over her breast, she
glanced first at the water and then at the
solitary farm-house on Langness as if calculating
the distance.

VOL. III. L

Can you wait ten minutes ?' she asked,
in a quick low voice.

Yes, Diana, I think so.'

'Then good-bye, dear, I'll be back in
plenty of time.'

Without another word she was gone,
running over the rocks with long swift strides
which never faltered or made a false step.
Her mere presence had produced a wonderful
change in Frank's feelings, it had seemed
so impossible to die when he was speaking
face to face with her. But as she rapidly
grew more distant, and the tumbling
tossing waves came pouring around andover
him, hope again sank to a very low
ebb.

Diana possessed the power of concentrating
her thoughts and energies upon
the task of the moment. In consequence,
whatever she did, was done well. She

appeared to skim along the beach like a
lapwing. Though the rocks were very
slippery with seaweed, she invariably
selected the safest spots, and, swiftly as she
ran, she never lost her footing ; though the
wind beat fiercely against her as if it had
entered into a league with the sea to encompass
Frank's destruction, she held resolutely
on her way without ever pausing to take
breath. The cliff was easy enough to ascend
in places; she aimed at a grassy slope
and soon reached the top. At the farmhouse
she did not hesitate at the door,
but rushed without knocking into the
tiled kitchen.

The family were sitting at supper around
a table covered by a cloth of home-spun
linen. An elderly man in his shirt-sleeves
was at one end ; his stout ruddy-face wife,
opposite ; on one side were two girls barely

lin

their teens ; and on the other, two boys
little older. They all laid down their
knives and forks and stared in amazement
at the beautiful lady, with the flushed
cheeks and sparkling eyes, who stood panting
in the doorway. Her dress, they
noticed, was very wet. Had she been
shipwrecked this stormy evening? Or,
had she fallen from the rocks into the
water? Or, was she a poor mad thing
who had tried to commit suicide ? Or,
could she be Ben Varrey who had been
singing in the waves all day ? When they
heard the sweetness of her voice, they
thought she must be Ben Varrey.

'A stick!' gasped Diana, 'I want a
stick. Can you let me have a stick at
once ?'

say, surely,' replied the farmer, after
taking a good look at her. ' Now, what

kind of a stick is it that you would be
wan tin' ?'

But won't you come in ?' asked Ms
wife, rising to dust a chair with her apron.
Come in an' sit down, do ! 'Deed, but
you look dreadful wet, an' there's a cheerful
fire here an' all. Would you like a
glass o' cowree ?* Or, perhaps you'd rather
have a sup o' butter-milk? Ellen, run
and fetch a jug for the lady. Go, girl, at
once? Never min' thin' up your hair at
all.'

Diana had let her wander on because
any attempt to stop her would have led to
endless discussion. If she would avoid a
fatal delay she saw that she must act on
her own account, for these good people did
not know the meaning of haste. So,

Infusion of oatmeal.

instead of listening, lie had been scanning
the room for what she wanted, and, just as
the woman finished, noticed a stout gorse-stick
standing by the side of the dresser.
Darting across the floor, she pounced upon
it, and, before they could recover from
their surprise, had vanished. Decidedly,
they concluded as they gazed at one
another's astonished faces, it was Ben
Varrey they had seen.

When Diana got back to Frank, she
found him nearly exhausted. His head
being only just above the level of the
water, every wave passed over him and
stopped his breathing. The sight of that
pale worn face looking with desperate
eagerness out of the surging water, while
the wind went screaming by along the
desolate shore and the dark clouds scurried
past overhead, would surely have moved

the stoniest heart ; but for the woman who
loved him with all the love of her passionate
nature, it was terrible. Now that her
task was done, she could scarcely prevent
her strength from slipping away from her.
Without wasting a moment in talking — of
which, indeed, she was then incapable — she
gave him the stick.

He worked it into the hole until the end
was in contact with the crab, then gave a
scrunching push, and his arm was free.
When he had drawn it out, which cost
him some trouble, it was so numbed, he
found a huge claw still adhering to his
maimed wrist. He put it in his pocket asa
memento of the occasion. Far too weak
to climb up the rock, he had to push his
way through the water, and, as he struggled
to the dry land, the white waves hissed
around him with baffled spite and the

wind tossed his wet hair about, screaming
at him the while like an indignant
virago.

Frank knew the man who lived in the
farm-house. So he and Diana dragged
themselves up there and sat by the fireside,
while the family stood in a semi-circle
around and listened, with open eyes,
mouths, and ears, to the story of Frank's
adventure. For an advocate, said the
farmer to himself, he was a remarkably incautious
young person. But his wife
brimmed over with pity; every other
moment she despatched one of her sons
or daughters to fetch some fresh article
of food or drink Ho keep the couth
out.'

It was dusk when husband and wife
walked home together, and there was every
promise of a dark and stormy evening.

Both were silent for a time. The good
fairy had come with her magic wand,
and the whole of Frank's obstinacy had
vanished.

^ Diana,' he said, humbly at length, ' will
you forgive me for the injury I have caused
you r

^ You, Frank ! Will you forgive me ? I
am the one to blame. It is I, not you, who
have wrought all this misery.'

'Well, we won't argue about that.
We must try to forget the past.'

'Oh, can we?' cried Diana, eagerly.
Never had she loved him more than she
did now that she had saved his life, and
now that the happiness for which she had
so long been yearning seemed to be within
reach.

At least,' replied Frank, with a calmness
which jarred painfully upon her

nerves, ' we can try. In future, we can
really be husband and wife if you wish
it'

A dreadful doubt had crept into her
mind.

Frank,' she said, scarcely above a
whisper, ' do you say that merely out of
some idea of gratitude ?'

'No.'

^ Then what?'

To-day would be a good starting-point
for a new future.'

Oh, Frank, my husband,' she cried,
with uncontrollable anguish, ^ can't you
spare me a wee morsel of love ?'

I Avould that I could,' said Frank, from
his heart. ^ Believe me, Diana, if only we
could command our feelings, I should
readily, gladly give all my love to you, to
whom I owe my very life. Why do you

make me say what must pain you ? You
would not have me tell you a lie, I know.
Is it not enough that I recognise my duty ?
Confronted with what you once called an
accomplished fact, I am quite ready to
submit. Diana, I like you very much ;
won't that satisfy you ?'

'Very well, Frank,' said Diana. But
she spoke as if she was broken-hearted, and
turned her beautiful face away, it was so
ghastly white.

As she did so, she caught sight of a
figure skulking through the gloom. They
had just reached the race-course, and
by the side of the path lay a cluster of
gorse-bushes. It was here that she saw
the man, moving as if he did not wish to
be seen. With her keen eyes, however,
she had little difficulty in recognising
Plague, whom she had once regarded as

some slight link between lier and Frank.
He stooped down behind a hillock and she
saw him no more.

CHAPTER VIII.

A HUMAN SPIDER.

Langness, together with its connective
strip of greensward, the race-course, may be
likened, not to a nose, as the name implies,
but to one of those Manx Three Legs, the
sole of the foot being turned towards the
open sea and the instep enclosing the bay.
Then the toes will be represented by the
Skerranes ; the ball by Dreswick Point, a
dangerous reef jutting out at right angles ;
and the spur on the heel by the tiny St.

Michael's Este with its narrow causeway at
the eastern extremity of Derbyhaven Bay,
which is separated from Castletown Bay
only by the race-course, the leg.

The back o' Languish,' as the country-people
call the seaward side of the promontory,
may be described as an enormous
but very irregular chevaux-de-frise. The
schist, after having been thrown on end
by volcanic agency, has been worn into a
succession of deep gulleys and sharp reefs
like immense hatchet-blades, which are
inclined towards the sea at every imaginable
angle. Such an inhospitable demonstration
could not be equalled by the most
truculent porcupine. To add to the confusion
of the scene, large boulders are
scattered about the coast, so that the whole
forms a very efficient protection against the
attacks of the sea. But in case of necessity

there is a powerful reserve in the background ;
for, peeping out of their beds of turf and
gorse and heather, are legions of sleepy old
lichen-stained rocks ready to do their duty
should their outposts fall before the thunder
of the waves. In the centre of this medley
stands a tall circular tower, some distance
beyond the farm-house. The mountains
being drawn up in array on the other side
of the bay, this solitary structure reminds
one of a colonel inspecting his regiment.

At nine o'clock on the night of Frank's
adventure there was a wild sea raging outside
Langness. The confused mass of
breakers with their white manes flying in
the wind resembled a stampede of maddened
horses over the prairie, and, as they
hurled themselves upon the rocks, they
drowned for the moment the shrill voice
of the gale. Though there was nothing to

brighten this scene of terror, the grandeur
of the storm was magnificent. The sky
was laced With black bands of cloud, and
sometimes, it is true, the moon peeped
through the bars of her prison ; but, seeing
the turmoil below, started back in affright
and fled.

An hour later the whole sky was pitch
black and a thick curtain had been drawn
over the angry face of the sea as if it were
too fearful to look upon. There was also
an occasional splash of heavy rain, but as
yet it was not nearly so wetting as the
showers of spray which swept half-way
across the promontory. The mist, winding
around the rocks, gave them a remarkably
weird aspect ; they appeared to be writhing
in agony, assuming all manner of hideous
shapes.

In one of the grassy nooks near Keswick

Point a man was hewing at a stranded
spar with a hatchet which he had brought
with him. He had been engaged in this
occupation for some considerable time, and
a large pile of wood was lying on the
ground. A lantern, set in a heap of
stones, showed him to be a tall, gaunt
fellow with very ragged clothes. Though,
he worked at his task with a fierce impatience,
as if every moment was of the utmost
importance, he occasionally cast a hungry
glance at the sea. Before the mist had
closed around, a smack had gone by,
labouring heavily under small jib and
double-reefed mainsail, and he had glared
at her like a wild beast disappointed of its
prey. After that, he had worked harder
than ever.

On one side of the grassy nook there was
a huge slab of schist which had been

VOL. III. M

undermined by rabbits. Many burrows
diverged from a common entrance at the
bottom of the slab, so that it formed quite
a large and convenient hall. The woodcutter,
however, had used it as a cupboard
When he had broken up as much of the
spar as he required, he went to the slab,
inserted his hand underneath, and drew
out a quantity of ling and paper, both perfectly
dry, as he was pleased to observe.

But, a sudden thought striking him, he
put it back and clambered up the grassy
slope to peer through the mist. If there
had been anybody about, he could not
have seen them ; and who would be on
Langness on such a night as this ? Nevertheless
he looked and listened with his
head first on one side and then on the
other. Startled by a dark object which
appeared to be in motion, he crept forward

to examine it and found it to be merely a
rock. At length, lie went softly back
again as if his footsteps might be heard by
some unseen watcher, in spite of the
shrieking wind and rao^iner water.

When he had arranged the ling and
paper between two slabs which formed an
angle facing the sea, he laid some of the
wood on top, and, carefully sheltering the
lantern beneath his tattered coat, opened it
and so set the pile alight. Fanned by the
wind, it burned furiously. The ling
crackled, the wood caught the flame, there
was soon a glorious blaze which neither
rain nor spray could quench.

Here and there a rock started out of the
Hight as if it would look more closely into
this strange thing. There was quite a
circle of these grim and silent spectators
who kept at a safe distance, though their

M 2

expressions and attitudes were ever
diano-ino;.

After placing a larger log on the fire,
the man sat down on a stone close by, and
the light fell full on the haggard features,
the unkempt black hair, the heavy brows,
and gleaming eyes of Plague. The waves
roared on the rocks below and the wind
event howling by, but he never stirred a
muscle. He looked like some human wolf,
though there was more of the human spider
in his work this night. Crouching as motionless
as a bronze statue, with fists clenched
and every limb rigid, he glared at the sea
as once by the smithy forge he had glared
at Macdonald's house. He was as patient
now as he had been then, for he had spun
his monstrous web and felt sure there were
flies about. He was even more determined,
a fierce craving for drink, together with a

consuming hatred of his fellow-men, having
driven him to a state of desperation. Was
he mad ? Let us hope so. Yet he was
clearly acting upon the suggestion of the
shipwreck at which he had discovered the
sailor's chest, with its locket and chain.

Two hours passed by, during which Plague
remained in the same crouching posture,
only moving occasionally to add fresh fuel
to the fire. The stone slabs threw most of
the light out to sea ; such rays as escaped
were caught in the little concave dell
behind, which acted as a second and larger
reflector. The range of vision was, therefore,
limited in every direction but one, and
even the edge of that yeasty water,
interspersed with black reefs, was very dimly
seen. Sometimes a burning brand leaped
into the air and sped away into the
hight, and sometimes as the flames grew

higher, a few more spectators crept into
view, to disappear when the fire died down
again ; otherwise, there was nothing to
relieve the monotony of the storm.

Presently a look of alarm came into
Plague's face. Shielding his eyes with his
hands, he watched and listened intently.
There could be no doubt about it ; the
tide had turned, and the wind and sea
were falling with it. A big drop of rain
smote him on the cheek and, with an oath,
he wiped it away. The drizzling mist was
giving way to a steady downpour, which
made the fire hiss and sputter and threatened
to extinguish it entirely.

Plague. who had moved forward to the
edge of the rocks, was about to return
•\vhen a strange sound met his ears — a
sound of bellowing cows and neighing
horses somewhere out at sea. As he

watched, an inhuman light leaped into his
eyes, for he had caught a glimpse of a
large vessel so close to the shore that she
could not by any possibility weather the
Skerranes. Indeed, it seemed all but
certain she would strike on Dreswick
Point. Though under very short canvas,
she went by rapidly, ploughing her way
through the heavy seas, and the bellowing
and neighing were soon lost amid the din
around.

After extinguishing his fire for fear of
accidents, Plague mounted the grassy
platform behind and went after her.
Though he strode along at a tremendous
pace, he was only just in time to see the
last of the vessel.

She had gone ashore on Dreswick Point,
broken her back, and was sinking, one half
going down into each of the two gules

which ran alongside the reef. As she
]darted in the centre, there came out of the
broken ends a struggling mass of cows,
horses, pigs, and sheep. It looked just as
if she had swallowed them alive, and had
been compelled to disgorge them by being
torn asunder. After all trace of the hull
had disappeared, they came floating to the
surface out of the two whirlpools. The
sea around was strewn with them. Some
were carried away by the tide ; others were
hurled upon the sharp rocks which soon
resembled a butcher's shambles.

In no case could the crew have had
much chance ; but, amid that confusion of
heavy animals and floating spars, they
were helpless. They were all drowned
except one man who escaped by a mere
freak of the sea. A wave flung him on to
a ledge far above high-water mark, and

there he remained insensible for a while.
We shall see him again, but not just
yet.

The first thing Plague got hold of was a
hen-coop full of fluttering fowls ; he contemptuously
tossed it back into the water.
The next was a keg of whisky which made
his eyes glisten. He carried it to a more
sheltered spot, and, lying face downwards,
knocked the bung in and applied his mouth
to the hole. This was surely the act of a
lunatic. Some men do, it is true, drink
raw spirits by the glass, but their sanity
may fairly be questioned.

Each time Plague drew his mouth away,
he tried to stop the flow of liquid with his
hand, but, in spite of all his efforts, a little
pool four or five inches deep was formed ina
hollow of the rock. Gradually his face
sank into it ; the rain poured down upon

him, but he did not move ; he was found
there in the morning, dead.

After a storm comes a calm. So let us jog
along more pleasantly, taking an elevated
standpoint to view the scenery brightened
by sunshine.

In the seventeenth century it was ordained
by act of Tynwald that the gates of
Castle Rushen should not be unlocked in
the morning ' until the watchman range the
day bell, which was to be done so soone as
the watchman could pfectli discover the
land makes bounded within a mile and a
half of the Castle. And at Peel still
more stringent precautions were enforced
for more safe guard of that castle, being
nearer to our enemies the Redshankes.'

This morning, when the sun rose in a
cloudless sky, the thin veil of vapour
caught fire and was speedily consumed,

while the scenery far and wide came before
the eye like the dissolving views of a magic
lantern. Had the watchman ' gone about
the walls to looke that all things be cheered
he would have been able to distinguish the
cottages away on the mountain-side, the
little hamlet of Cregneish embedded among
the Mull hills at the extreme south of the
island, and even to trace the purple curves
of Greeba and Garraghan and Bein-y-Phot
in the far north, so clear was the atmosphere
after the rain. The pretty patchwork
of undulating portland and meadow
interlaced with the golden lines of the gorse
upon the fences, appeared as distinct as if
under a microscope. The sunlight, lying
in a silvery web upon the landscape, gave
to the most commonplace objects a beauty
of its own, and the air had a soft shimmer
which ever and anon culminated in a

sparkle at some cottage window many miles
away.

No less beautiful was the sea. Out
yonder by the Skerranes there was a frequent
flash of foam, and over the Stack
played a cascade of creamy water and the
bay seemed to be set with a myriad of
gems. It was not still by any means, but
there was nothing rough about it this
morning. Its anger had given way to a
playful petulance most fascinating to
watch. The pretty coquette was smiling
now, even running coyly before a staid old
skiff carrying a fisherman and his lobster-pots.


When the news of the wreck reached
Castletown, it created a greater sensation
than usual on account of some of the circumstances
connected with it. The people
went in crowds to visit Dreswick Point.

The sky was blue overhead ; the sunlight
was glancing on the sea ; by the side of the
reef the water was already so clear that
some red pollen might be seen contentedly
swimming among the debris. Nature was
hard at work, trying to cover up that ugly
scar of yesterday.

It could not be done just yet, however ;
there were plenty of materials out of
which the grim tragedy could be constructed.
What had lately been a fine vessel, was
found to be churned into match wood, the
fragments being; scattered all alone; the
coast. Plague, though dead, told his own
tale. It was corroborated by the remnants
of his fire, and also by the saved man, a
passenger, Who had found his way to the
farm-house. The bleeding carcases which
covered the rocks, certainly presented a
sickening spectacle ; but, as Cain the Leg

and many another has said, ' It's an ill
wind that blows nobody no good,' and the
poor were provided with enough meat to
last them for a long time to come. The
only body recovered was an unknown
sailor's, all the others having been swept
away by the powerful tidal currents.

Among those who started to walk to
jDreswick Point, was Fabian Dalrymple, who
could now take a feeling interest in shipwrecks.
He went by himself, shortly after
the conclusion of morning parade. While
crossing the race-course, he contrived to
stumble into one of the sandy pits with
which it is studded, and a few minutes
later he missed his pocket-book. He returned
to look for it, but could not find it.
For a very good reason : Bobby Beg, who
had been behind, had pounced upon it and
carried it off. «.

Dalrymple's loss threw him into the
greatest consternation. There was only
one thing to be done, he decided ; he must
propose to Nessie at once. He accordingly
hastened back to Claddagh House with
that object.

CHAPTER IX.

A CRISIS.

Dalrymple, having asked to see Nessie
alone, was shown into the sitting-room
where the circle of friendly old chairs were
assembled in solemn conclave to receive
him, like a jury empanelled to pronounce
upon his case. Though the dark furniture
gave the room rather a gloomy aspect,
outside the sun was shining brightly on
the old apple-tree and the garden beyond.
The breeze, that came pouring in through

the open window, was laden with SAveet
scents, and the birds were singing merrily
to the dreamy music of the sea. It was an
idyllic morning for love-making.

If Mr. Colquitt, his wife, and Mona who
were discussing the matter upstairs, had
been able to listen unobserved, they
would presently have heard the following
conversation.

'■ You have been very good to me,' said
Nessie, looking nervously at the little hands
which were clasped in her lap, ' and very
good to my mother and father and sister,
and I do like you very much. But it's all
so sudden, so strange, and really I don't
know what to say.'

Dalrymple, who was sitting by her side,
never once removed his eyes from her
pretty blushing face. There was something
of the professional critic in his gaze,

VOL. HI. N

and something of the lover. He was undoubtedly
anxious, yet showed no sign of
the impatience which was consuming him.
On the contrary, he appeared remarkably
self-possessed.

Shall I tell you what to say, Nessie ?'
he asked, bending his head until she could
feel his breath on her cheek. ' Say Yes,
darling.'

Won't you give me one day — just one
day to decide? To-morrow evening, I'll
tell you.'

'Won't you tell me now, Nessie?'

I would rather not,' she faltered.

A shade of vexation crossed his face.
There was a doubtful ring about her voice
which made him hesitate to press her.

I can't bear the uncertainty,' he said.
Only think of my dreadful suspense !'

'But wouldn't it be much more dreadful

if I were to decide wrongly ? How many
might be made miserable ! I am anxious
to please everybody,, and I don't quite know
what they wish

Then you don't think of yourself — orme
! Won't you love me a little ?'

How could she tell him that, having given
her heart away to one man, she had but a
poor feeble substitute to offer to anybody
else ? That she could never, never forget
her first love ? That nothing remained to
her but to do what good she could with
her ruined life, which might bring some
little happiness to others but none to herself?
He knew all the circumstances, so
there was no need to explain them, and
when she gave him her final answer she
could add what was necessary as gently as
possible.

To this arrangement Dalrymple reluctant



aptly consented. After all, no harm might
come of the loss of that pocket-book ; perhaps
some ignorant country lout, who could not
read, had picked it up ; in any case, he
might as well try to recover it, for he could
not disown it, his name being in it. He
left the house without seeing any of the
rest of the family, and, for the sake of
-greater seclusion, returned to the town by
the Silverburn.

The Douglas coach had just arrived and
the horses were being brought to cool
their hot and dusty legs in the river.
Seated on one of them was Bobby Beg,,
singing like a lark.

The king can only ride a boss,
And I can do the same ;
I rides him with my legs across,
And that's the for I came.'

Bobby Beg appeared to be in a singularly

happy mood. From his lofty seat he
looked down upon Dalrymple with proud
delight which was made only the more
conspicuous by an attempt at slyness.

Remembering that Bobby Beg had been
behind on the race-course, Dalrymple eyed
him somewhat suspiciously. However, it
was not likely this crazy fellow should know
anything about the missing pocket-book.
So he passed on.

Meeting the chief constable in the
market-place, he mentioned his loss and
was advised to send the bellman round the
town.

'Where is he to be found?' asked
Dalrymple.

In some public-house or other, keeping
his throat in good condition.'

'A thirsty soul then ?'

Very,' said the constable, drily. ' I

have never heard of a bellman that wasn't.
It may be worth your while, sir,' added he
with a confidential wink, ' to give him a
trifle more than he asks, for his voice hasa
strange way of going off at times. When
he's only got a shilling for the job, I've
known the poor fellow's lungs so bad that
he couldn't be heard two doors off, but
with half-a-crown in his pocket he can
bellow like a bull.'

I understand,' laughed Dalrymple.

After some trouble the bellman was
dragged out of a neighbouring public-house,
which was to his mind far more attractive
than a shipwreck. He was a hobbler, with
no other symbol of his official position than
the bell which he carried by the clapper.
Not a handsome man by any means, for
his nose turned up and ended in a bright
red knob, and, to make matters worse, he

squinted. He spoke in a low whine which,
had very little of the bull about it, but at
the sight of five shillings he began to sing
out like a boatswain in a gale of wind.

As Dalrymple was entering the barracks,
he noticed the glisten of a silver coin lying
between the railings and the building. It
was the sixpence that Bobby Beg had flung
at the windows, the dust having covered it
up until last night's rain had brought it
into view again. Though it had no
associations for Dalrymple, who had not
observed Bobby Begs act, he thought it
might be better employed than lying there ;
so he fished it out with his stick and threw
it to ' a walker,' or professional beggar,
who happened to be passing.

Bobby Beg, returning on horseback,
witnessed this scene and laughed. An
injury was not to be wiped out in that

simple way at all. He had placed something
to his credit at any rate, and, though
it did not appear to be worth much, he
might add to it. But hark ! what was the
bellman crying in a voice that might almost
be heard at Langness ?

Lost, somewhere between the barracks
and the rifle-butts on the race-course, a
small leather pocket-book containing papers
of no value to anyone but the owner.
Whoever will bring the same to Lieutenant
Dalrymple will receive five pounds
reward.'

With a final clash of the bell, the bellman
marched off. Bobby Beg, who had
stopped to listen, was now in a great hurry
to get back to the stables.

Gee wo !' said Bobby Beg, digging his
heels into his horse's ribs. ' I^ow then,
old slowcoach, gee wo, won't you ?' Li

despair, he tumbled off and began to push
behind.

He felt that quite a new light had been
thrown upon his prize. He had carefully
examined the papers in the pocket-book,
and, unable to make head or tail of them,
had set them down as valueless. But this
was clearly a mistake, otherwise five
pounds would not have been offered for
their recovery. It was a huge sum in his
eyes ; he grew dazed with vainly trying to
think how many pennies it represented.
The reward was a strong temptation to the
simpleton who could appreciate money as
well as anybody, and had, indeed, a large
collection of coins hidden away in some
secret corner ; but if he accepted it would
he not lose his revenge, which was sweeter
still ? If only he could read the papers he
would have a better idea of his position.

He might then return them and claim the
reward if they were useless for his purpose ;
perhaps he might do so in any case, for
would he not have possessed himself of
their contents ?

In his extremity Bobby Beg resolved to
confide in Black Deborah, who had been
very kind to him since he had helped to
transport her goods to her new home. He
was fortunate enough to meet her near the
drawbridge.

Anew Wesleyan minister having just been
appointed to the town, it had occurred to
Black Deborah that his doctrinal notions
might be sounder than Mr. Hudson's, in
which case she was prepared to secede.
The test being the same, she could not be
accused of bias. If he would instruct his
congregation that this spiritual welfare
depended upon their eating her Passover

cakes, she would at once join the
Wesley ans and support them with all the
authority which Elijah's mantle conferred
upon her. This was her delicate mission
when she met Bobby Beg.

At his request she accompanied him to
a secluded spot up the Silverburn. The
trout were leaping in the sunny stream and
the linnets were singing in the wilderness of
yellow gorse on the other side, and hereon
the bank stood this strange couple
the majestic-looking mad woman and the
grotesque simpleton, who had courteously
laid his brimless hat on the grass at his
feet. From the inside pocket of the lowest
layer of coats he produced the precious
book and humbly asked her to read its
contents to him. As she opened it there
fluttered to the ground a cutting from a
newspaper. He picked it up and handed
it to her.

When she had read it, she stared in
amazement at him.

Where did you get this, Bobby Beg ^'
she demanded.

He had to explain all the circumstances,
a task that caused him some miso:ivino:s.
While speaking, he watched her much as a
dog watches its master when it does not
quite know whether to expect a bone or a
stick. As for Black Deborah, her face
glowed with triumph and her black eyes
were flashing like diamonds.

You have done very properly, Bobby
Beg, to bring it to me,' she said.

Bobby Beg seemed rather doubtful on
the subject. ' But aren't you going' for to
read me them papers?' he asked.

'There is no need. I have read
enough.'

'What's that, though?'

Mind your own business, Bobby Beg,'
said Black Deborah, coolly putting the
book in her pocket.

There's five pour' out for it,' said
Bobby Beg, dolefully. With any other
person than the Mad Prophetess, he would
have contested the point more keenly.

'Then, we'll share it. Fair play, you
know, Bobby Beg.'

An' that's all I'm to get !'

No, not all,' said Black Deborah, with
importance. 'When next I meet the
Prophet Elijah, I'll tell him Bobby Beg has
done his duty. You'll be suitably rewarded,
without doubt.'

Instead of going to interview the
Wesleyan minister, she returned in haste
to her own home. Though her leaflets had
hitherto been solely religious in tone, she
saw here the chance of making a great hit

with a piece of pungent scandal. Of course,
it lead to be diluted so as to make five
minims fill a quart pot and fetch a quart
pot price, but that was a mere matter
of time. The scoffers who refused to look
at her predictions about the Millennium,
would come in crowds to buy, for it
was of a highly sensational nature and
would therefore be sure of an enormous
circulation. It seems clear that Black
Deborah forestalled the society journals by
a generation.

It took her several hours to expand the
exclusive piece of news which she had
obtained in rather a shady way. When it
was done, she set it in type herself and
then proceeded to print it by means of the
small printing-press which she possessed.
This occupied her until far into the night.

Before going to bed, she sent a messenger

to tell Bobby Beg she should want him
at an early hour next morning. And
punctually at the time she named he
knocked at her door. The result of the
interview was surprising enough. When
the town awoke, every blank wall was
placarded thus :

Price Sixpence.
STARTLING REVELATIONS

ABOUT

Mrs. Mandrel and LIEUTENANT DALRYMPLE.
To be obtained in the Market-place, at ten o'clock.

DEBORAH THE PROPHETESS,

Isle ofMan^ otherwise Woman.

CHAPTER X.

FOR HIS SAKE.

When left alone, Nessie hid herself away
in her own room and sobbed as if her
young heart were breaking. Her mother,
coming to the door, found it locked and at
first got no answer to her knock. But, as
soon as Nessie could control her voice,
she said she would be downstairs in a
moment.

It was a long moment for the impatient
ones waiting for her, but not very long in

reality. After wiping away her tears and
smoothing her brown hair at the glass,
Tvhicb, in spite of all her efforts, showed
but a pale face without a ray of sunshine
in it, she entered the room where the
family was assembled, and told them — just
as if she were making an ordinary
announcement — she was going to marry
Dalrymple.

Her mother congratulated her warmly ;
then with a sudden look of anxiety
asked :

'Has he promised to live in Castletown
?'

You dear old beauty, he hasn't promised
to do anything except to take care of
me, who am not worth taking care of.'

You must make him do that, Nessie.
I can't part with another child. I shall
never forget '

VOL. III.

^ Mother dear interrupted Mona, warningly.


I was only going to speak of my own
wedding,' said Mrs. Colquitt, reproachfully.
But there, it's no matter. Come added
she, looking at her husband who was
screwed against the wall by the side of the
empty grate, *tell your daughter how
pleased you are that she has found a good
husband and a comfortable home.'

He meekly obeyed. Sorry as he would
be to lose ISTessie, he was very glad to have
her future provided for. His wife would
have less temptation to grumble at him for
doing nothing; there would be one less
mouth to feed, a great consideration where
every penny was of importance ; and the
son-in-law elect, being a wealthy and
amiable man, would doubtless help to keep
the coach going. In a word, time had

shown the precipice at the bottom of the
hill to have been one of his wife's many
delusions, as he had already supposed, so
his seat would be more pleasant than
ever.

Mona, however, was anything but
satisfied. Though she kissed her sister
very tenderly, she scarcely spoke at all.
The more she watched and listened, the
more certain she became that, in her
anxiety to get Nessie married, she had
pushed her into the arms of the wrong man.
It was a most distressing mistake for the
girl who loved her sister dearly and had
really thought herself working for her
benefit. Good manager as she was, she
had to confess her ignorance of sentimental
matters, as this her first attempt at matchmaking
testified. She had been manoeuvring
for a marriage between Nessie and

o2

Ned, whom she was convinced Nessie liked
better than Dalrymple, and yet as the
result of her manoeuvres a marriage
between Nessie and Dalrymple was
imminent! How had it come about?
And, what was of far more practical importance,
how was it to be prevented without
causing a fall between the two stools ?
Being fairly certain of her ground, Mona
resolved to see Ned.

She met him in the town that afternoon,
his only companion as usual being Toby.
He was going to Douglas in connection
with some business of his father's, so they
had only time for a short talk, but it was
long enough for her purpose.

'Ned,' said Mona, stating the case very
bluntly so as to observe its effect upon
him. ' Nessie is going to marry Mr.
Dalrymple.'

He started as if struck by a blow.
Though he had seen the sword suspended
over his head, it had remained there so
long that he had almost taken hope again,
and its fall now cut him to the quick.

I know,' he stammered at length. ' At
least, I felt sure of it. I do hope she'll be
happy.'

But do you think she will, Ned?'

Why not, Mona ? You ought to know
better than I do.'

^ 1 don't think she will,' said Mona, with
decision. * That's the very reason I have
come to you. It's no use trying to disguise
the fact — for you can't, Ned — you
are very fond of Nessie, and she is very
fond of you. Under other circumstances
I should not have interfered, but I feel it
would be wrong to remain silent any
longer. I am her sister, you know, and

your friend, and there are other reasons.
Nessie is far fonder of you than Dalrymple.
But, if you won't ask her to marry you,
what can she do ? She must accept the
man who does ask her. Yet even then
she won't give him an answer at once —
not until tomorrow. I'm sure, Ned, she
is hoping you may come to her meanwhile.
Won't you do so, and save a great
deal of misery to yourself and her and
everybody ?'

But would it be fair to Dalrymple ?'
asked Ned, doubtfully, though the bare
possibility of such a delicious thing made
his eyes sparkle.

Quite fair. Nessie has given him no
promise of any sort.'

Then, I'll come,' exclaimed Ned, tomorrow
morning as early as possible
And so it was settled.

On her way home, Mona paused opposite
Frank's office with some idea of asking his
opinion, but eventually passed on. Though
he had at last shown himself sensible
enough to take her advice and ' fiddle
psalms,' she could scarcely rely upon his
judgment in this delicate matter. It was,
however, a great comfort to her to feel
assured that he had no longer to be
reckoned with, for the reconciliation between
him and Diana was now complete.
It had, as all the town knew, been effected
by a crab, and but for the shipwreck would
have been a more absorbing topic than it
was.

At the same time, there were still two
questions of general interest. When were
husband and wife to be united under one
roof? And where were they going to
live ? When asked, they invariably replied

they had not yet selected a house, which
seemed strange. As Diana was giving a
supper to a party of friends this evening,
there was an idea that she intended to
make the desired announcement then.

She did not do so, however, though
Frank, who came in just like one of the
ordinary guests, sat opposite her at the
table. The post of honour was occupied
by a fine old venerable gentleman who
discoursed pleasantly on beards, rats,
lawyers, and other kindred topics — Jacob
Maddrell, to wit; and never did anyone
mix together more incongruous edibles
than he did, to the surprise and amusement
of Diana, who devoted herself to
him in a way that pleased Frank immensely.


Some one remarked that she grew more
and more beautiful every day, which someone

else explained by pointing at her
husband opposite. She wore a magnificent
new dress, which had as usual received
so many touches from her skilful hands
that the dressmaker who had fashioned it
would scarcely have known her own work.
It set off her shapely figure to perfection.
The same art was displayed in the management
of her masses of dark hair, and yet
there was nothing artificial about her. In
whatever she did she was natural and
therefore charming.

Jacob Maddrell, sitting by her side,
marvelled at the quickness of her flight
from mood to mood, and quite fell in love
with her. She was grave with one and
the next moment gay with another, her
keen sympathy enabling her to turn the
corners with admirable ease. If sometimes,
as she looked at Frank, a shadow

darkened her face, it was gone before any -
one could notice it. He certainly did not
do so, though her mother might have
done.

A change came over her manner when
the time arrived for her guests to leave.
She bade them good-night with a seriousness
which everybody observed and nobody
could understand. When they had gone,
she sank wearily into a chair. Frank
stayed with her a little while, and, as Mrs.
Sherwood went to bed, husband and wife
were left alone together.

His head was brimful of house-keeping
arrangements. Now that he had taken
the matter in hand, he went at it as impulsively,
as he did at everything else.
Strangely enough, the opposition came
from her ; he would have selected a house
long ago had she not kept putting him off

in a most unaccountable way. Though
all her interest was centred in him, she
appeared to take no interest in what he
was saying. Though she watched him
with a passionate love, which showed itself
in every feature of her face, she scarcely
answered one of his questions. Nevertheless,
he rattled on, absorbed in his own
castle-building.

Of course, he said, all her money would
be settled upon herself. His income was
enough to provide a home for his wife and
keep her in comfort. At first they must
be contented with narrower quarters than
he would have liked to give her, but intime
they would be better off. There was
that empty house along the Arboryy Road ;
what did she think of it ?

Never mind that now, Frank,' she
said. ^ I'm a little tired to-nio^ht.'

Then I won't keep you up any longer,
Diana,' he said, rising. He felt rather
hurt at her indifference.

No, don't go yet, Frank,' she pleaded.

He took the hand she held out to him,
and sat down looking at her wonderingly.

Why, Diana, how cold your hand is !'
he exclaimed.
„asit, Frank?'

'It is indeed. And your face .' He

laid one hand upon her forehead. ' Good
gracious ! It is burning hot. You are
quite feverish, dear. You must go to bed
at once.'

Feverish !' she said, with a strange
little laugh. 'Are those the symptoms?
Well, it's nearly over.'

Frank was greatly alarmed. He thought
her mind was wandering, there was such
a want of connection between her ideas.

As lie was rising to his feet, she said, in a
voice that thrilled through and through
him,

'Frank, kiss me, darling. You have
never yet done so. Kiss me, my husband.'

He stooped down and kissed her hot
forehead, and she flung her arms around
his neck and kissed him passionately in
return. It was a long time before she let
him go.

Though you can't love me,' she half-sobbed,
' I love you, darling — I love you —
I love you. Though you should never
hear my voice again, remember, I love
you. If they were to be my last words, I
should say I love you. Frank, my
husband, kiss me again.'

When Frank left, he felt extremely uneasy.
There could be no doubt that
something was very wrong. If Diana was

suffering merely from a slight feverish
attack, she might be all right in the
morning, but he feared ifc was much more
serious than that. He had never seen her
so strange in her manner except once
shortly after their marriage. His only
consolation was that he had persuaded
her, if necessary, to send for Dr.
Myl worry.

Tired though she had acknowledged
herself to be, Diana did not go to bed at
all that night. She sat up writing letters
until nearly daybreak, when she went to
her own room to make some alterations in
her attire. She put on a dark blue dress
and a bonnet to match, all the colours she
wore being such as were least susceptible
to the action of the sea air. Though her
toilette was remarkable for its simplicity,
she was very careful over it, and it occupied

her a considerable time. When it was
concluded, she took a last long look at herself
in the mirror and, leaving her letters
on the dressing-table, went into the room
where her mother was sleeping soundly,
and kissed her. The old lady never stirred
until a tear fell on her wrinkled cheek ;
before she could open her eyes, Diana had
glided away.

Before passing out into the silent
market-place, she murmured, for his
sake ;' then she closed the door and almost
ran down the steps. The sun, just appearing
above Langness, had not yet acquired
sufficient strength to disperse the mist ;
the air was chilly ; and the grey houses
had a miserable aspect — miserable, at least,
in the sight of the lonely woman who was
passing by. She stopped for a moment
opposite Frank's home and looked up at

his window with dim eyes and moving lips.
Not a word escaped her, but her pitiful
gesture, with only the grim old castle behind
as a spectator, was far more eloquent.
If Diana had not been so absorbed in her
own thoughts, she would have seen, here
and there as she walked along, the placards
which Bobby Beg had just been posting
an the walls. Some fishermen, who had
already read them, were discussing the
matter at the drawbridge, and, when Diana
approached, their jaws fell open with such
precision that they might have been
executing a military manoeuvre. Closing
up into a silent group, they watched her
with amazement. What had brought her
out at this early hour ? "Was she running
away from the ' startling revelations,' which
Black Deborah had promised them for the
modest sum of sixpence ?

Though vexed at meeting anybody,
Diana never looked at the fishermen, and
so had not the smallest notion of the interest
they took in her. It was not a very
unusual thing for ladies to bathe before
breakfast, and, as they generally left their
bathing-gowns and towels at some cottage
or other, this might easily have been her
errand. They knew of no circumstances
likely to give colour to any other supposition.
However, she was glad to reach
the race-course without encountering anyone
else.

The race-course extends as far as the
chevaux-de-frise on the outside of Lang-ness.
Here Diana sat down and gazed at
the sea lying almost motionless at her feet.
Away towards yonder glistening streak of
current, it had a lovely iridescent sheen
which varied in hue as the sun soared into

VOL. III. p

the blue sky overhead. But down therein
the gully, where the long brown seaweed
was waving to and fro, the water looked,
dark and cold : the more so as, the morning
having turned out bright and sunny,
all the rest of the world was very
beautiful.

For several hours Diana sat without
moving. There was no sign of irresolution
in her manner, only she had much to think
about and there was scarcely any chance
of her being disturbed. At length she
descended the rocks and peered down into
the gully, but started back shuddering,
for she had caught sight of a cruel-looking
conger curled among the seaweed.

Tremblingly she clambered back to her
former position, but, instead of remaining,
hastened across the narrow causeway to
St. Michael's Isle and wandered among the

rocks there always keeping close to the
edge of the sea.

Meanwhile a solemn little procession was
wending its way towards the same spot,
lb consisted of half-a-dozen bare-headed
fishermen carrying a rude coffin on their
shoulders, and about a score following
behind. They were neither friends nor
relatives, these rough, weather-worn
mourners with the bronzed faces and horny
hands ; they were ignorant of the very
name of the unfortunate man whose body
they were carrying. But their eyes were
moist and voices tremulous as they marched
along, singing one of their own simple
hymns.

Besides a small fort, now used as a lighthouse,
there is a tiny ruined chapel on St.
Michael's Isle. It is supposed to be one of
the hundred-and-ninety-three built by

p2

Germanus, the first Bishop of Man, in
which case its age is upwards of fourteen
centuries and a half. Though exposed to
every wind, the walls, which show no trace
of a tool, are still standing, but the roof
has long disappeared. Unfortunately it is
quite neglected, and nettles are growing
around the broken altar.
- Attached to the chapel, there is an
ancient burial-ground. It is so large that
the place must formerly have been of considerable
importance. The only trace of
the bank which once enclosed it is a slight
elevation of the turf. The graves have all
disappeared, except in one corner where
there are a fev7 grassy mounds of recent
date without head-stones or anything to
show their meanings. These are the arrives
of the shipwrecked unknown, the melancholy
flotsam and jetsam rejected by the

sea, and contemptuously tossed upon the
rocks around. Who or what they were no
one knows. Their very nationality is often
a mystery. Even the Church, ignorant of
their religion, will not receive them into its
fold. Surely the very excellent tripod —
faith, hope, and charity — upon which our
Church takes its stand, is sometimes a
little weak iu one of its legs.

It may be doubted, however, whether a
better graveyard could possibly be found for
those who go down to the sea in ships. On
one side, this wee grassy islet runs gently
down to meet the wavelets in Derbyhaven
Bay, beyond which is a frowning range of
headlands, with pebbly little creeks in
between and the mountains standing as
sentinels in the background ; and on the
other side it bristles fiercely against the
restless ocean. So, except at the narrow

causeway, the water flows all round and
close to the spot where these nameless
sleepers lie. And when the breeze is
murmuring softly overhead, and the sea
playing on the beach, their slumber must
be sound and their dreams sweet ; and
when the gale is shrieking around they
may rest happy in the knowledge that no
wild cry of eau hands on deck,' will disturb
their well-earned watch below. Is
not this a sailor's paradise ?

And here the bare-headed fishermen
laid their comrade who had gone before.
They could not give him anything in the
nature of a service ; it was not in their
power to bestow upon him a solemn benediction
; but they did their best. They
gathered round the open grave, and, with
bowed heads and quavering voices, sang a
hymn. Westminster Abbey with all its

splendour never witnessed a more pathetic
funeral. Then earth fell on earth, the turf
was replaced, and they left the wanderer
resting at last.

Besides the fishermen, there was present
the sole survivor of the unfortunate vessel
wrecked on Dreswick Point by Plague's instrumentality.
He was a tall, handsome,
gentlemanly man, who had merely been a
passenger and therefore knew nothing
about the crew, otherwise this poor sailor
might have received Christian burial.
Though his age could not have exceeded
five-and-thirty, his forehead was deeply
lined and his hair beginning to turn grey.
His face had a sort of faded look which is
very difficult to describe. It gave one the
idea of his having once plunged deeply into
dissipation, and then turned from it to
lead a colourless existence enlivened by

neither amusement nor occupation.
Character, energy, purpose, all seemed to
have been drained out of him ; but,
whether by a sudden shock or a more
gradual process, it was impossible to
say.

When the fishermen started on their
homeward walk, he strolled towards the
POcks which hid Diana from view.

Standing on the extremity of a reef, she
had heard the simple hymn and wondered
at its meaning. It had come to her like a
sweet message from the far-off land on
which her eyes were fastened. Mellowed
by distance and mingled with the music of
the sea, it had sounded like angels singing.
When it ceased, she waited hoping to hear
it again. But, as time went by, she
abandoned that hope and once more looked
at the water at her feet.

For his sake lie murmured, suddenly
raising her arms above her head.

With her beautiful face upturned to
the sunny sky, she was about to move forward,
when she heard a startled voice
exclaim :

'Diana!'

She staggered back, looked at the man
standing on the rocks above, and turned
as white as snow.

'Jack!' she gasped; and fainted.

CHAPTER XL

BLACK Deborah's REVELATIONS,

Long before the Castle clock struck tea,,
there was an excited crowd in the
market-place. It was Saturday, so the
townspeople were reinforced by a large
number of country people, the farmers
standing around their carts which were
stretched in a row before the barracks,
and their wives and daughters, with big
baskets on their arms, clustered in the
little recess by the side of the Custom-house.

The usual party of male gossips were
strolling up and down, talking, however,
with more than usual animation. The
advocates, in particular, were frisking
about in an uncommonly lively way, for
they saw a chance of a good crop of libel
suits. Many ladies were also present,
ostensibly for the purpose of marketing,
really to secure a fair share of Black
Deborah's 'startling revelations.' Very
brisk of speech and movement, they had
an embarrassing way of pouncing upon
anyone who was supposed to know more
than the rest and imploring him to confide
in them ; ' for you know,' they all said, ' I
won't breathe a syllable to a soul.' It was
so hard to disoblige them that they heard
a good many fibs.

The fishing being over for the week,
the cutters were all in the harbour, so

their crews mustered in force. In their
southwestern, blue guernsey, and big boots,
and sometimes with baskets of bread or
cabbages on their heads, they added a
picturesque element to the scene, and also
a noisy one, jabbering in a dozen different
tongues. With the exception of the
sentry's, however, there were no scarlet
coats about, for the soldiers were at morning
parade.

The shop-keepers had left their wives to
take care of their shops, and their wives had
run out to talk. There was a row of these
sentinels, one at nearly every door, along
each side of the two narrow streets, and
by raising their voices a little they flashed
the news down the line. Of course, the
last woman in the line heard the most
amazing things. To mention merely one
item : It was reported that Diana and Dalrjmple

had eloped together. The servants
popped their heads out of upper windows
and made mute gestures to one another,
not a very safe way of transmitting intelligence.
In the present case, it led
some to believe that the Millennium was at
hand, its chief function being to corroborate
Black Deborah.

It is scarcely necessary to say that, apart
from a very natural curiosity, the feeling
was one of indignation against this crazy
creature. It even extended to Dalrymple,
simply because his name was coupled with
Diana's, for no reason at all that anyone
could see. During his stay in the town
he had not made a single friend intimate
enough with him to mention what had
happened ; so, ignorant of the excitement
without, he was quietly drilling his men in
the barrack-yard.

There was not a man who did not rally
round Diana, while those members of her
own sex who had often spoken bitterly
against her, now showed that their malice
was, like her beauty, but skin-deep. When
she was not present, to sting them with a
sense of their hopeless inferiority, they
could be generous enough.

She had, however, placed herself at a
great disadvantage by what looked very
like a flight. Her mother, always a late
riser, was not yet aware of the fact, but
the fishermen who had seen Diana crossing
the drawbridge had spread it abroad. Unable
to offer any plausible explanation, her
friends had to content themselves with
attacking Black Deborah, whose placards
they had already torn down. But they
clamoured for more stringent measures;
they wanted to nip the scandal in the bud.

"Why, they asked, was this scurrilous
lunatic allowed to be at large ?

Notwithstanding all the talk, there was
nothing done because no one of sufficient
authority liked to take the lead. The
High Bailiff tapped his gold snuff-box and
said he really did not see how he could
interfere at present. The facts of the
case not having been laid before him, he
was not prepared to adjudicate upon it ;
when he had read what Black Deborah had
to say, he might perhaps — though he did not
know — be able to see bis way more clearly.
Sammy Kneale thereupon suggested that
a deputation should wait upon the ;
another advocate thought
it was a matter for the magistrates ; a third
held that the Deemster was the proper
person to see ; a fourth proposed that they
should take the advice of the Attorney-general

; and so they went on, talking the
clock round. A notorious virago, who
happened to be standing in the crowd, said
that if she were a man she would wring
Black Deborah's neck; which was perhaps
the most sensible advice of the
lot.

'The woman should be locked up beyond
all doubt,' declared Major Christorey to a
circle of friends.

'Will you give the necessary order,
major ?' inquired Sammy Kneale, cocking
his crooked nose.

'In your case with pleasure Kneale,' was
the blunt retort.

Sammy hastily excused himself. A
minute or two later he was observed to
glide into a neighbouring house where a
few friends were gathered for an early
bitter.'

I don't think,' observed Dr. Mylworry,
Black Deborah's half as mad as people
suppose.'

She's as mad as a March hare,' said the
major.

Then there's a great deal of method in
her madness. Just think of what she does !
She is her own editor, staff, compositor,
printer, publisher '

And reading public,' laughed Mr.
Hudson.

Not entirely to-day, at any rate. By
the powers, here she comes !'

In spite of the rush to see Black Deborah,
there was no crushing upon her ; she was
much too awful a being for that. Being
mad, she was popularly supposed to be in
league with the Prince of Darkness, an
idea that was unshaken by the minute
accounts she often published of her inter-vol.

III. Q

views with spirits of undoubted sanctity.
The fitful lustre of her black eyes, which
possessed a kind of snake-like fascination,
had perhaps something to do with this
feeling; and then there was her extravagant
height for a woman — she was several inches
taller than any man present — and also the
noble cast of her features. It was no
wonder, then, that many superstitions were
associated with her majestic form.

As she advanced, the crowd in the
market-place opened before her and closed
up behind. Bobby Beg, who was in attendance
with a huge pile of the precious
leaflets, evidently derived the greatest
enjoyment from his importance. He kept
grinning right and left, while Black
Deborah marched on in front in a most
stately way, as became the wearer of Elijah's
mantle.

Several sixpences were thrust out to her
as she passed by, but she scornfully waved
them back. She was not going to waste
her triumph in that way. These poor fools,
who had hitherto scoffed at her, should
follow after her now and bide her time ;
she would give them a dose of their own
worldly wisdom and see how they liked it.
So she continued her stately march as
far as the sun-dial, when she ascended
the glacis and took her stand on the
slabs.

She opened the proceedings with an introductory
speech, after which the sale
began, Bobby Beg disposing of the leaflets,
while Black Deborah was careful to collect
the money.

The number of copies sold turned out
to be far below her expectations. In fact,
considered from her standpoint, which was

q2

the financial one, the leaflet was a failure,
the reason basing that many persons were
mean enough to borrow what their neighbours
had bought. The High Bailiff, who
always looked twice at a sixpence before
parting with it, hung his head over Major
Christorey's right shoulder, and Mr.
Hudson did the same over his left, while a
.dozen others stared impatiently in front,
waiting for their turn at this cheap six-pennyworth.
Lower down in the scale, the
process Alas carried to a still greater
extent, some thirty fishermen, for
example, getting one of their number to
read aloud. In this way, the marketplace
was studded with groups, and forty
or fifty leaflets sufficed for the whole
town.

Black Deborah was furious. Being no
respecter of persons, she was irreverent

enough to call the High Bailiff * a scurvy
old thief,' upon which his worship began
to entertain a more decided opinion as to
the . necessity for placing her under
restraint.

Customers having ceased to crowd
around the sun-dial, Bobby Beg was sent
further afield to search for them. Presently
his eyes rested upon Dalrymple
coming jauntily out of the barracks to see
what the excitement was about. Half-incredulous
faces were raised from the
printed pages which had been rivetting
their attention, and turned upon him with
amazement and indignation. They could
as little understand how he had the impudence
to come sauntering among them as he
could understand their unfriendly demonstration,
if such it was to be considered. A
secret dread sprang into his mind, but he

dismissed it as ridiculous. His listlessness
never left him ; he lounged along with a
supercilious smile which made many a man
clench his fist.

Bobby Beg advanced, and, with mock
humility, doffed his hat and stood with his
yellow head bared before the tall young
officer in undress uniform.

What do you want ?' demanded Dalrymple,
sharply.

Bobby Beg grinned.

Get out of my way, you fool.'

Ay, fool indeed !' said Bobby Beg.
On St. Stephen's Day you throned me
sixpence. To-day I throw you six-pennyworth.'
And he thrust a leaflet into
Dairy male's hands and danced off
singing :

The king can only say good-night,
And I can do the same :

I shouts oie-vie with all my might,
And that's the for I came.'

Dalrjmple's first impulse was to fling
the paper away. But, noticing that every
group had one like it, he opened it and
began to read. The heading gave him an
unmistakeable shock, which in a less
degree was communicated to the anxious
spectators. When he had glanced through
a .few lines his face was as pale as death.
Instead of continuing his walk, he hastily
returned to the barracks.

What little remains to be said about
Fabian Dalrymple may best be said here.
Whether he had previously obtained leave
of absence from his colonel or whether he
went without it, nobody appeared to know,
but one thing is certain : he left Castletown
the same evening and was never seen
there again. He had shot his bolt and

missed, but so narrowly as to cause many a
shudder afterwards.

Dalrymple had scarcely left the marketplace
when Ned entered it on his way to
ask Nessie to be his wife. He was very
happy and very hopeful; had not Mona
given him good cause for being so ? She
would never have spoken as she had done
unless she felt quite certain of her sister's
mind. So Ned, as he walked along, paused
before every empty house and pictured it
furnished, with Nessie in the centre of all
the beautiful things he meant to buy for
her. The great difficulty with him was
that she would look well anywhere ; every
place he tried her in straightway became
charming. Under such embarrassing circumstances,
he found it impossible to
decide upon any one in particular. However,
he intended to leave it all to her, so

there was no need to trouble his head
about it. Then he had grand plans for
helping her family without their knowing
anything about it ; and he would purchase
a nice handy yacht and take Frank and
Diana for a long cruise ; and Toby was to
have a new kennel ; in fact his friends were
to share in his happiness.

Ned walked through the crowd without
taking much notice of the prevailing excitement.
It was market-day, and that no doubt
accounted for it. But presently his father
saw him and marched up, looking as brittle
as a wax-work image.

What's the matter, sir ?' exclaimed Ned,
struck by his extreme gravity.

*Come with me, Ned,' said the major,
leading him by the arm. ' I have something
to tell you in private.'

As the two were walking away together,

Ned happened to look across at Diana's
house. Then he thought he saw it all.
Every blind was drawn down ! It was a
dreadful blow for him, of course, but his
other feelings soon gained the mastery.

Is Diana dead ?' he asked, in a hoarse
whisper.

dead! No. Why?'

This swift play upon Ned's feelings
proved too much for him. His lips moved ;
but in order to explain himself he had to
point at the darkened house.

The major looked and started. While
he was still watching, the door opened
and a woe-begone yellow old lady in an
Indian shawl tottered down the steps.
Suddenly she clutched at the railings and
fell back crying :

Diana !'

Several ran to her assistance, but the

majority turned in the opposite direction.
On the glacis stood the black majestic
figure of the mad prophetess, pointing with
outstretched hand to three persons who
were walking in the street below. They
were Diana in the centre, Frank on one
side of her, and the rescued passenger on
the other.

Behold,' cried Black Deborah, ' a woman
and her two husbands !'

She spoke at a venture, knowing the
stranger's name to be Knightonon. But she
was right.

Diana who had separated herself from
her dissipated husband and hidden herself
away in Castletown, had had reason to
believe him drowned. Dalrymple had
learnt he was alive through an advertisement
for her, and had concealed the fact
lest Frank, released from his supposed

marriage, should oust him from Nessie's
favour. The advertisement which was in
the pocket-book picked up by Bobby Beg,
was the text of Black Deborah's leaflet.

CHAPTER XII.

Good-bye.

In one corner of the Claddagh House garden
there was a grotto of red conglomerate
which had been brought from Langness.
Ferns, planted in the interstices of the
rocks, formed a delicate tracery of many
tints of green and brown. It was enclosed
by a broad circle of dark-eyed pansies,
presided over by several bushes of Guelder
roses, and was approached by a lane of
raspberry bushes which grew thickly under
the gnarled old apple-trees.

On the morning after the events narrated
in the last chapter, Nessie was the sole
occupant of the grotto which contained a
rustic table and seat. Her arms were
resting on the table and her head was
buried in them. The garden was bathed
in a soft warm flood of sunlight, through
which floated the scent of marjory and
thyme, the songs of the linnets and the
finches, and the sweet lullaby of the sea.
But here, under the shadow of the rocks,
the atmosphere was a little gloomy, as was
Nessie. A new and most difficult problem
having been presented to her, she was trying
hard to solve it, and it seemed to her
troubled young mind that the solution
could only be reached through suffering.
Mona had given her a hint as to what she
had said to Ned ; and now what was to be
done about him and Frank ?

Hearing a step on the gravel, Nessie
looked up and saw Need timidly approaching.
Though her pretty face had been
clouded a moment before, though she was
greatly distressed now, she contrived to
give him a smile of welcome. He was even
more embarrassed than she was.

'Nessie,' he stammered, after shaking
hands with her, ' I thought I should like to
say good-bye to you alone.'

Good-bye, Ned ! Where are you
going ?'

Abroad.'

Why ?' she asked, with a little gasp.

Because I wish to be your brother and
I can't if I stay here.'

'You poor, poor old Ned,' she faltered,
and broke down.

I have been worrying your poor little
life out,' he said. It was hard work to goon,

but he stuck to it bravely. ^ I ought
to be ashamed of myself and I am. When
I come back I shall be a brother — only a
brother, Nessie.'

Is this for my sake, Ned T she said,
watching him closely. ' Am I driving you
away from your own home. Oh, but that
must never, never be.'

He saw then that he had made a
mistake.

You are not to blame at all,' he said,
stoutly. ^No, not at all, Nessie. You
would have loved me if you could, but you
can't — and no wonder.' He glanced
reproachfully at his own awkward person.
Now you will be happy with Frank, and
therefore I am happy ; at least, I ought to
be. There are other reasons for my leaving
Castletown. My mother is very
anxious I should go away for a while.

Toby — look at the rascal pretending to bethe
most innocent dog in creation said
Ned, glad to turn his face away from her
watchful gaze — ' Toby has got me into a
row with the High Bailiff. He is so
savage that he won't speak to either my
father or myself. So, you see, Nessie, I'm
going away for the peace of the town

If I only thought '

^* Oh, but you mustn't think,' said Ned,
who was unusually talkative this morning.
It's bad for young brains. To tell the
truth, Nessie, I'm rather glad to have a
chance of seeing foreign countries. I want
brightening up a bit ; everybody says so.
I made up my mind last night and I thought
I should like to tell you alone, so here I
am. When I come back,' he hesitated, it
was so difficult to say, ^ I hope I shall find
you married and happy.'

VOL. III. B

Nessie was crying silently.

'But, Ned she began.

No, no, let me do all the talking. And
now, Nessie,' he said, abruptly, taking her
hand, 'I'm off. Good-bye, and God bless
you !'

Before she could say a word, he was
gone, hurrying away through the garden
with Toby at his heels. Cain the Leg, who
was resting upon his spade, watched him
striding by and marvelled at his speed ;
but when he noticed Ned's white face and
contracted brows, he also grew troubled.
It may have been owing to some subtle
sense of sympathy, or it may have been
merely imitation, but Cain the Leg began to
dig with vigour.

After fortifying himself by means of a
walk through the fields, Ned returned to
the town. As he approached the drawbridge,

be drew a leather muzzle from his
pocket, summoned his shaggy companion,
and put it on. Toby looked perplexed and
not a little mortified. In this strange
apparel he presented a singularly ferocious
appearance, notwithstanding his piteous
gaze at his master, who adjusted the
buckles with as much care as if he were
dealing with an untamed tiger.

For Nessie and for me, Toby !' said Need,
half-apologetically, as he gave the finishing
touch and stood up. ' You don't mind
that, do you, old chap T

The sailors standing by the bridge were
inclined to jeer at Toby. They stared,
pulled the pipes out of their mouths, and
prepared to heave a remark or two.

What's up with the dog, Master Ned?'
asked Jonathan Yondyy.

His temper is out of order, Jonathan.'

r2.

• Yes, he has been seized with a delirious
craving for human flesh.'

That's bad, though,' said Jonathan,
edging a little further away, while everyone
present showed a sudden desire to examine
his neighbour's back.

This preliminary test satisfied Ned of
the efficacy of his appliance. Heavy-hearted
though he was, he could not help
smiling as he passed on. Arrived at
Frank's office, he opened the door, sent
Toby in, and then followed himself. Frank,
who was writing at the table, leaned back
in his chair and regarded this strange
couple with surprise. Toby was so ashamed
of himself that he sneaked into a corner
between the side-board and the wall,
and only his muzzled head protruded.
His master stood opposite and pointed at
him.

There !' he exclaimed. * Did you ever
see such a fierce brute in all your life ? A
perfect monster, Frank. A regular demon.
There's not a man, woman, or child safe in
the town when he is about, and yet I
haven't the heart to part with him.'

But what's the matter now, Ned ?'

Matter now ! Why, that desperate
animal has worried a colt of the High
Bailiffs, and he is furious, thirsting for the
blood of all the Christoreys. Money won't
recompense him, he says ; he wants blood.
He demands Toby as the first victim.
There's only one way out of the difficulty,
Frank. Toby and I are going to make a
bolt for it as soon as possible — tomorrow,
in fact.'

I had no idea,' said Frank, smiling
though somewhat bewildered, 'that the
High Bailiff was such a blood-thirsty old

fellow. You don't really mean that you
are leaving the island ?'

Indeed I do replied Ned, with a sorry
attempt at playfulness. * I'm going to
travel — become a man of the world, you
know. At present I'm insular, angular,
ignorant of all but rocks and sea and fish.
In a year or two I'll come back a polished
traveller crammed full of knowledge.' He
looked at himself and laughed.

After playing with his pen for a moment
or two, Frank raised his eyes to Ned's face
and said :

^AndNessie?'

Oh ! she and I have arranged to be
brother and sister for the rest of our
lives. That is, if her husband won't
object.'

And you are willing to agree to those
terms ?'

'Yes.

I must say I can't understand it.
It is so unlike you, Ned, to leave a thing
half-done.'

Oh, but this isn't done at all. Nessie
would never care for me except as a brother
and it would be downright cruelty to goon
bothering her.'

Look here, Ned, my engagement was
broken off entirely through my own
fault. Therefore I must suffer for it.
And certainly I'm not going to act the
dog in the manger. While I have been
out of the matter, you and Nessie have
been getting to love each other.'

There you are wrong, Frank,' interrupted
Ned, sadly. 'Nessie's happiness
depends upon her marrying you, so I have
set my heart upon it.'

Well, Ned, you are the most unselfish

fellow in the whole world. Is this the
reason why you are leaving Castletown ?'

Ned could only point at Toby.

Because if it is,' continued Frank firmly,
' I'll go straight to your people and beg
them to forbid your doing anything of the
sort

It is my mother's wish that I should
go.'

But she doesn't know everything.'

Yes, Frank, she does. And I will ask
you to remember this, 1 don't return until
Nessie is married to somebody. Whether
you are that somebody rests with yourself.'
Then, in the same abrupt way that he had
taken leave of Nessie, he took leave of
Frank.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE END.

Seven months later, on the first of May,
Nessie and Frank were alone together on
the rocks at Scarlettt, Mona having gone
off, as she was careful to explain, to see
what the view looked like from the top of
the Stack.

It was a glorious evening, not unlike
that other on which our story opened.
The sun hung like a ball of fire in the hazy
blue sky barred here and there with gold
and crimson ; the mountains were decked

with green and purple ; and a filmy veil of
pink was stealing along the valleys. The
ensign over Castle Rushen had a languid
droop, for there was not wind enough to stir
it, and the smoke from the grey houses
around its walls rose in parallel lines.
The tide was high and the water a sheeny
blue, except close to the coast where the
shadows lay darkly upon the water.
Yonder, a white-sailed vessel appeared to
be sailing in the air ; it floated high above
the horizon which was distinctly outlined
below. Langness had caught the warm
glow of the sunset, and looked so soft and
bright that it was hard to imagine a shipwreck
there.

This morning said Nessie, * I had a
letter from Diana.'

What did she say F

Very little about herself, though she

asked many questions about you. Her
husband is quite a changed man, she says;
he is very attentive to her and very fond
of her. Poor Diana ! she writes from
Paris

I know,' said Frank, with a sigh, * for
she met Ned there.'

And you have heard from him ?'

Yes, this morning also. According to
his own account, he is enjoying himself
immensely ?'

Dear good old fellow ! Do you really,
really think he is happy ?'

That is a hard thing to say.'

It was now Nessie's turn to sigh. Just
where the Stack threw its black shadow
across the sea, a fisherman was slowly
paddling his skiff towards the harbour.
The sight recalled to her memory the
evening when she and Ned had been there

together. Now, he was wandering alone
in a foreign country, and she — Heigh-ho !
if every cloud has its silver lining, every
silver lining has its cloud.

'Does he say when he is coming home
again ?' asked Nessie, studying the water
at her feet,

'Not yet. Not until — ' He stopped,
Looked at her wistfully, and then went on :
Nessie, Ned is in exile. He is such an
uncommonly determined fellow that there
is no doing anything with him. In fact, he
won't come back until we have done what
he wishes.'

What he wishes !' exclaimed Nessie,
with a little start of surprise.

Yes, Nessie, what the best and truest
and noblest friend we have wishes. I long
to see his honest face again, and to get a
grip of his manly hand. And Toby the

truculent, Toby with the shaggy coat and
crop ear and stumpy tail — can't you seethe
rascal prowling along beside his great
awkward good master ? Oh, Nessie, we
must have them back.'

Nessie blushed, but made no answer.

There is only one way to do it,' said
Frank, taking her hand. ^ May I keep
this ? It was mine once, but I threw it
away. My darling, need I tell you how I
love you?'

Frank,' she murmured, her pretty face
as red as the setting sun, * I know.'

'Do you, you rogue!' he exclaimed,
taking her in his arms and kissing her.
And so, after a separation which had
threatened to be lifelong, the lovers were
united. ' Oh, Nessie,' he added, presently,
I could be so happy if it were not for Ned
and Diana.'

The eyes of both filled with tears.
Their dreams had once been of perfect
happiness ; now they know it to be unattainable.
But this evening, sitting by
the side of the beautiful sea, with the
ruddy sky over-head and love in their
warm young hearts, Nessie and Frank
were as happy as they ever will be in this
world.

THE END.

LONDON : Printed BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

-a

HURST & Blackett's

LIST OF I^EW WORKS.

LONDON:

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET, VV.

•B-

-ff

MESSRS. HURST MD BLACKETT'S

LIST OF NEW WORKS.
CHAPTERS FROM FAMILY CHESTS. By

Edward Walfokd, M. A., Author of "The County Families," &c.

2 vols, crown 8vo. discontents
:— Rachel, Lady Russell— The Noble House of Knolls— The Bad Lord
Byron— The Ill-fated House of Mowbray— Wealthy Sir John Duck, Bart.— The
Escape of Lady Ogilvy— Harriet Mellon, Duchess of St. Allan's— An Episode
in the Life of Lord Eldon— The Shepherd Earl of Cumberland— The Buccaneer
Earl of Cumberland— The Fall of the Great House of Norwich— A
Romance of the House of Audley— The Stuart of To-day — A Right Noble
Cavendish— " Jack of Newbury"— The Noble House of Vanstone— The
Ducal House of Montrose— An Incident in the House of Radcliffe— The Proud
House of Percy — The Countess of Drogheda — A Tragedy in the House of
Montgomery — Simon Eraser, Lord Lovat — The Rise of the Ducal House of
Portland— The Noble House of Courtenay— The Gallant Admiral Lord Dun-donald—
The Murder of Lord Claremont— The Dudley of Northamptonshire
The Cavendish— "Bess of Hardwicke"— Olive, Princess of Cumberland
"Wild " Darrell of Littleton — Eliza Barren, Countess of Derby — A Romance
in the House of Roseberry — Lettuce Digby, Lady Offal — Romance of the
Earldom of Nellie — A Romance in the Dartmouth Family — Old Lady Cork —
The De la Poles— The Clinton Tournament— The Love-match of the Earl of
Ossory — Nan Charges, Duchess of Albemarle — Margaret, Duchess of 
Lordship of Lome.

Reminiscences OF THE COURT AND

TIMES OF KING ERNEST OF HANOVER. By the Rev. C.

A. Wilkinson, Mea., His Majesty's Resident Domestic Chaplain.

2 vols. With portrait of the King. 21s.
An interesting book, entitled ' Reminiscences of the Court and Times of King
Ernest of Hanover,' has just been published by Messrs. Hurst and Blackett. The
two volumes in which these reminiscences of a septuagenarian are comprised
abound in characteristic stories of the old king, in anecdotes of many celebrities
English and foreign, of the early part of this century, and, indeed, of all kinds and
conditions of men and women with whom the author was brought in contact by
his courtly or pastoral office." — St. James's Gazette.

THE EGYPTIAN CAMPAIGNS, 1882 to 1885,

AND THE Events which led to them. By Charles Boyle,

Barrister at-Law, of Alexandria, 2 vols, demy 8vo. Illustrated

by Maps and Plans. sos.

"Mr. Roylehas done well in the interests of historical completeness to describe

not only the entire military drama, but also the political events connected with

it, and whoever reads the book with care has gone a considerable way towards

mastering the difficult Egyptian question"— ^^Aenfewm.

"The Egyptian fiasco has found in Mr. Boyle a most painstaking, accurate, and
judicious historian. From a literary point of view his volumes may be thought to
contain too many unimportant incidents, yet their presence was necessary perhaps,
in a complete record, and the most fastidious reader will unhesitatingly acquit
Mr. Boyle of filling his pages with anything that can be called padding"— ^(.
James's Gazette.

THE PALACE AND THE HOSPITAL; or,

Chronicles op Greenwich. By the Rev. A. G. Estrange,

Author of ' The Village of Palaces,' ' The Friendships of Mary
Russell Mitford,' &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. With Illustrations. ils.
Mr. Estrange has provided for those who have a taste for topography, or
rather for the historical and biographical annals of a locality famous in history,
two volumes which are rich in romantic interest, and his pages abound incurious
and interesting glimpses of old manners"— Z>ai7y News.



NEW Works— Co continued.

THE REAL SHELLEY: New Views of the Poet's

Life. By John Cord Jefferson, Author of " The Real Lord

Byron," " A Book about Doctors," " A Book about Lawyers," &c.

2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.

"Those who have read Mr. Jeaffreson'B account of Byron will be prepared to

find that impartiality is the distinguishing feature of his endeavour to clear away

the fancies and misconceptions which have been given to the world in some of

the biographies of Shelley, and they will not be disappointed. The author haa

striven to ascertain, fairly and fully, the truth concerning a poet whose influence,

while it has been greatly exaggerated by his most enthusiastic admirers, is still a

living factor in the life of ma,nY."'— Morning Post.

Reminiscences OF MILITARY SERVICE

WITH THE 93rd SUTHERLAND HIGHLANDERS. By

Surgeon-general Munro, M.D., Cab., Formerly Surgeon of the

Regiment. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.

"This book is not only bright and lively, but thoroughly good-natured. What

makes these reminiscences exceptionally readable is the amount of illustrative

anecdote with which they are interspersed. The author has a keen appreciation

of humour, with the knack of recalling appropriate stories." — Saturday Eevieio.

THE FRIENDSHIPS OF MARY Russell

Milford : As Recorded in Letters from her Literary
Correspondents. Edited by the Rev. A. G. Estrange,

Editor of " The Life of Mary Russell Mitford," &c. 2 vols. 21s.
'^ These letters are all written as to one whom the writers love and revere. Miss
Barrett is one of Miss Mitford's correspondents, all of whom seem to be inspired
with a sense of excellence in the mind they are invoking. Their letters are extremely
interesting, and they strike out recollections, opinions, criticisms, which
will hold the reader's delighted and serious attention." — Daily Telegraph.

THE Bronze FAMILY, With Special Reference

to Patrick Branwell Bronze. By Francis A. Leland. 2
vols. 21s.
"This book is so full of interesting information that as a contribution to literary
biography it may be considered a real success." — Academy.

Mr. Leland's book is earnest and accurate, and he has spared no pains to
master his subject and present it with clearness; the book is valuable, and should
be read by all who are familiar with the previous works on the family." — Graphic .

MEMOIRS OF A CAMBRIDGE CHORISTER.

By William Glover. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

"In these amusing volumes Mr. Glover provides us with the means of spending
a pleasant hour or two in his company." — Times.

"These volumes contain a miscellaneous set of reminiscences, comments, and
anecdotes, written in a light and jocular style. Mr. Glover is always cheerful
and never didactic." — Athenaeum.

WITHOUT GOD: Negative Science and Natural

Ethics. By Percy Greg, Author of "The Devil's Advocate,"

"Across the Zodiac," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 12s.

Mr. Greg has condensed much profound thought into his book, and has fully

succeeded in maintaining the interest of the discussion throughout." — Morning Post.

This work is ably written; there are in it many passages of no ordinary power

and brilliancy. It is eminently suggestive and stimulating." — Scotsman.

FOOTSTEPS OF JEANNE D'ARC. A Pilgrimage.

By Mrs. Florence Caddy. 1 vol demy svo. With Map of Route. 15s.
"The reader, whatever his preconceived notions of the maid may have been,
will soon find himself in sympathy with a writer who, by the charm of her descriptive
style, at once arrests his attention and sustains the interest of her
subject"— i/orniny Post.



THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF PEG

Washington : With Pictures op the Period in which She

Lived. By J. Fitzgerald Molly, Author of " Court Life

Below Stairs," &c. Second Edition. 2 vols, crown 8vo. With

Portrait. 21s.

"Peg Wofflngton makes a most interesting central figure, round which Mr.

Molly has made to revolve a varied and picturesque panorama of London life in

the middle of the eighteenth century. He sees things in the past so clearly, grasps

them so tenaciously, and reproduces them so vividly, that they come to us without

any of the dust and rust of time"— G. A. S. in Illustrated London News.

WOMEN OF EUROPE IN THE FIFTEENTH

AND SIXTEENTH CENTURIES. By Mrs. Napier Higgins.

Vols. 1 and 2 demy 8vo. sos.
The work is likely to be of permanent value to the students of history"—
Morning Post,

ON THE TRACK OF THE CRESCENT: Erratic

Notes from the Piraeus to Perth. By Major E. C. Johnson,
M.A.I., F. R. Hist. S., etc. With Map and Upwards of 50 illustrations
by the Author. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.
The author of this bright, pleasant volume possesses keen power of observation
and vivid appreciation of animate and inanimate beauty. It will brighten
hours for many readers who will only follow the track of the Crescent through it£
pages and its numerous illustrations." — Morning Post.

MEMOIRS OF MARSHAL Bureau, From

His Private Correspondence and Original Documents, 1784 —
1849. By the Count H. mandeville. Edited, from the French,
by Charlotte M. Yonge. 2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.
This is a work of great value to the student of French history. A perusal of
the book will convince any reader of Bureau's energy, his patriotism, his unselfishness,
and his philanthropy and humanity." — Athenaeum.

GLIMPSES OF GREEK LIFE AND SCENERY.

By Agnes Smith, Author of " Eastern Pilgrims," &c. Demy 8vo.

With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.
A truthful picture of the country through which the author travelled. It is
naturally and simply told, in an agreeable and animated style. Miss Smith displays
an ample acquaintance and sympathy with all the scenes of historic interest."
—St. James's Gazette.

MONSIEUR GUIZOT in Private Life (1787-

1874). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mrs.

Simpson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. Miss.
Madame de "Witt has done justice to her father's memory in an admirable record
of his life. Mrs. Simpson's translation of this singularly interesting book is
in accuracy and grace worthy of the original and of the syxhiect:'— Saturday Review.

PLAIN SPEAKING. By Author of " John Halifax,

Gentleman." 1 vol. crown 8vo. 10s. 6d.
"ewe recommend 'Plain Speaking' to all who like amusing, wholesome, and
instructive reading. The contents of Mrs. Crank's volume are of the most multifarious
kind, but all the papers are good sand readable, and one at least of them
of real importance"— <Si. James's Gazette.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen
Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4to. 5s.

LODGE'S PEERAGE

AND BARONETAGE,

CORRECTED BY THE NOBILITY.

FIFTY-SI Nth Edition N FOR 1887.

Lodge's Peerage and Baronetage is acknowledged to be the most
complete, as well as the most elegant, work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family
histories, honours, and connections of the titled aristocracy, no work has
ever stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal communications
of the Nobility. It is the only work of its class in which, the
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the realm, the most
sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches of the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility of arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility.

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.

Historical View of the Peerage.

Parliamentary EoU of the House of Lords.

English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their
orders of Precedence.

Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain
and the United Kingdom, holding superior
rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage.

Alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers,
holding superior titles in the Peerage of
Great Britain and the United Kingdom.

A Collective list of Peers, in their order of
Precedence.

Table of Precedency among Men.

Table of Precedency among Women.

The Queen and the Royal Family.

Peers of the Blood Royal.

The Peerage, alphabetically arranged.

Families of such Extinct Peers as have left
Widows or Issue.

Alphabetical List of the Surnames of all the
Peers.

The Archbishops and Bishops Of England
and Ireland.

The Baronetage alphabetically arranged.

Alphabetical List of Surnames assumed by
members of Noble Families.

Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
Peers, usually borne by their Eldest
Sons.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Dukes, Marquises, and Earls, who, having
married Commoners, retain the title
of Lady before their own Christian and
their Husband's Surnames.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Viscounts and Barons, who, having
married Commoners, are styled Honourable
Mrs. ; and, in case of the husband
being a Baronet or Knight, Hon. Lady.

A List of the Orders of Knighthood.

Mottoes alphabetically arranged and translated.


"This work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently deceased
members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stands at this day. It is
a most useful publication. We are happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy is a distinguishing feature of this book." — Times.

"Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: first, it
is on a better plan ; and secondly, it is better executed. We can safely pronounce it to bethe
readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modern works on the subject." — Spectator:

A work of great value. It is the most faithful record we possess of the aristocracy
of the day"— Pos?.

EACH IN ONE VOLUME GROWN 8vo, Gs.

DONOVAN:

A Modern ENGLISHMAN.

"This is a very admirable work. The reader is from the first carried away by the
gallant unconventionality of its author. 'Donovan 'is a very excellent novel; but it is
something more and better. It should do as much good as the best sermon ever written
or delivered extempore. The story is told with a grand simplicity, an unconscious poetry
of eloquence which stirs the very depths of the heart. One of the main excellencies of
this novel is the delicacy of touch with which the author shows her most delightful characters
to be after all human beings, and not angels before their time"— Standard.

'Donovan' is' told with the power of truth, experience, and moral insight. The tone
of the novel is excellent and very high." — Daily News.

"V^E T^S^ro.

This book is well written and full of interest. The story abounds with a good many
light touches, and is certainly far from lacking in incident." — Times.

"' We Two ' contains many very exciting passages and a great deal of information.
Miss Lyell is a capable writer and a clear-headed thinker." — Athenaeum.

A work of deep thought and much power. Serious as it is, it is now and then brightened
by rays of genuine humour. Altogether this story is more and better than a novel."
Morning Post.

There is artistic realism both in the conception and the delineation of the personages;
the action and interest are unflagging sustained from first to last, and the book is pervaded
by an atmosphere of elevated, earnest thought." — Scotsman.

IN THE GOLDEN Di^YS.

"Miss Lyell has given us a vigorous study of such life and character as are really worth
reading about. The central figure of her story is Algerian Sydney ; and this figure she
invests with a singular dignity and power. He always appears with effect, but no liberties
are taken with the facts of his life. The plot is adapted with great felicity to them.
His part in it, absolutely consistent as it is with historical truth, gives it reality as well as
dignity. Some of the scenes are remarkably vivid. The escape is an admirable narrative,
which almost makes one hold one's breath as one reads." — Spectator.

' In the Golden Days ' is an excellent novel of a kind we are always particularly glad
to recommend. It has a good foundation of plot and incident, a thoroughly noble and
wholesome motive, a hero who really acts and suffers heroically, and two very nice
heroines. The historical background is very carefully indicated, but is never allowed to
become more than background"— G'i<arc?ta«.

"Von BY ^V^AITINGh.

The Dean's daughters are perfectly real characters— the learned Cornelia especially ;
the little impulsive French heroine, who endures their cold hospitality and at last wins
their affection, is thoroughly charming ; while throughout the book there runs a golden
thread of pure brotherly and sisterly love, which pleasantly reminds us that the making
and marring of marriage is not, after all, the sum total of real life." — Academy.

' Won by Waiting ' is a very pleasing and well-written tale ; full of graphic descriptions
of French and English life, with incidents and characters well sustained. A book
with such pleasant reading, and with such a healthy tone and influence, is a great boon
to the young people in our families"— i^reemaw.

EACH IN ONE VOLUME CROWN 8vo.

J^ HOXJSE jP^RTY.

By OuiDA.

' A House Party' will be read, firstly, because it is Ouida's, and, secondly, because of
the brightness of the conversations and descriptions. It is indeed more like a comedy
than any other of the writer's books"— (??o6e.

By Mrs. Forrester.

This book is pleasant and well meant. Here and there are some good touches. Sir
Ralph IS a man worth reading about"— ^cac7<?/nw.

This tale is well and cleverly written ; the characters are drawn and sustained with
considerable power, and the conversation is always bright and liYelj."— Glasgow Herald.

BETRAYAL OF REXJBEIsr HOLT.

By Barbara Lake.

This novel shows considerable power of writing. There are some striking scenes and
incidents. "scotsman.

"This tale displays elevation of thought and feeling, united to no little grace of
expression"— /^osf.

S O R EC Y.

By Violet Fane.

' Sophy ' is the clever and original work of a clever woman. Its merits are of a strikingly
unusual kind. It is charged throughout with the strongest human interest. It is,
in a word, a novel that will make its mark"— TFo?'W.

MY LORD AJS^jy MY Ei^DY.

By Mrs. Forrester.

"A very capital novel The great charm about it is that Mrs. Forrester is quite at home
in the society which she describes. It is a book to rea,i.''— Standard.

Mrs. Forrester's style is so fresh and graphic that the reader is kept under its spell
from first to lasV—Sforning Post.

Beds Little MOTHER.

By the Author of '' John Halifax, Gentleman."

' His Little Mother ' is one of those pathetic stories which the author tells better
than anybody else"— John Bull.

This book is written with all Mrs. Crank's grace of style, the chief charm of which
after all, is its simplicity."- (7/asgrojo Herald.

THE ER^NERETHS.

By the Eight Hon. A. J. B. Beresford Hope, M.P.

*' The great attraction of this novel is the easy, conversational, knowledgeable tone of
it ; the sketching from the life, and yet not so close to the life as to be malicious, men,
women, periods, and events, to all of which intelligent readers can fit a name. The
political and social sketches will naturally excite the chief interest among readers who
will be attracted by the authors name and experience"— ^i^eciaior.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

LIKE LUCIFER. By Denzil Vane. 3 vols.

There is some pleasant writing in ' Like Lucifer,' and the plot is workmanlike.
" — Academy.

"Denzil Vane has a talent for lively, fluent writing, and a power of tracing
character." — Whitehall Review.

A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS. By Jane

Stanley. 2 vols.

'A Daughter of the Gods' is very pretty. That is a description which specially
suits the easy-flowing, love-making story"' — Athenaeum.

LUCIA. By Mrs. Augustus Crayex, Author of

*' A Sister's Story." Translated by Lady Herbert of Lea. 2 vols.

This is a very pretty, touching, and consoling story. The tale is as much above
the ordinary romance as the fresh air of the seaside is better than the stifling atmosphere
of the fashionable quarter of the gayest city'" — est. James's Gazette,

' Lucia ' is as good a novel as has been published for a long time." — Academy.

LOVE, THE PILGRIM. By May Crommelix,

Author of " Queene," "A Jewel of a Girl," <fec. 3 vols.

' Love, the Pilgrim ' is a pretty story, which, beginning quietly, develops into
one of very sensational incident indeed." — Graphic.
"A tale of thrilling interest"— ^'co^smaw.

THE KING CAN DO NO WRONG. By Pamela

Sneyd, Author of "Jack Urquhart's Daughter." 2 vols.

This novel gives evidence of imagination, insight into character, and power of
delineation.' — Athemrntm.

Shows command of exceptional narrative and descriptive power— the story is
told with cleverness and iovcQ."'— Scotsman.

THE COURTING OF MARY SMITH. By F. W.

Robinson, Author of " Grandmother's Money," " No Church," &c.
3 vols.
One of the finest studies that any of our novelists has produced of late years.
To read such a book is to strengthen the soul with a moral tonic." — Athenaeum.

"The book is full of the truths and experiences of actual life, woven into a
romance by an undoubtedly clever novelist"' — Morning Post.

IN LETTERS OF GOLD. By Thomas St. E.

Hake. 2 vols.
"Mr. Hake does not indulge in padding, and never forgets that his first, and,
indeed, only business, is to tell a story'" — Athenaeum.

THE POWER OF GOLD. By George Lambert.

2 vols.
' The Power of Gold ' is distinguished for skill in giving fresh interest to a
simple story, and the presentation of characters with real life about them." —
Graphic.

THRO' LOVE AND WAR. By Violet Fane,

Author of " Sophy : or the Adventures of a Savage," &c. 3 vols,
"thro' Love and "War' has a succinct and intelligible plot, and is written
with a quaint combination of acute perception, veiled sarcasm, and broad fun,
which is certain to ensure for it a wide popularity"— r/i^ World.

PUBLISHED BY Hues & BLACKETT.

THE BROKEN SEAL. By Dora Russell, Author

of " Footprints in the Snow," &c. 3 vols.

THE GREEN HILLS BY THE SEA : A Manx

SxoiiT. By Hugh Coleman Davidson. 3 vols.

MURIEL'S MARRIAGE. ByEsME Stuart, Author

of " A Faire Dalzell," &c. 3 vols.

TILL MY WEDDING DAY. By a French Lady.

2 vols. (In the Press

ONCE AGAIN. By Mrs. Forrester, Author of

Viva," " Mignon," " My Lord and My Lady," &c. (Second Edition

3 vols.

A really fascinating story. Bright and often original as is Mrs. Forrester, her
peculiar gifts have never been seen to better advantage than in 'Once Again.'
An undercurrent of tragedy runs through this startling tale, and this, together
with its graphically drawn characters, sets it completely apart from the ordinary
society storj.""— Morning Post.

A WILFUL YOUNG WOMAN. By A. Price,

Author of " A Rustic Maid," " Who is Sylvia ?" &c. 3 vols.
The story is one to be read with pleasure, and no little admiration. The portraiture
is full of grace and tenderness"— /Scoismaw.

THE SURVIVORS. By Henry Cresswell, Author

of " A Modern Greek Heroine," " Incognita," &c. 3 vols.
There is cleverness in this book, and occasional brilliancy and wit"— Academy.
An amusing comedy of modern life ; there are some good situations and
striking episodes in the book." — Athenaeum.

A WICKED GIRL. By Mary Cecil Hay, Author

of " Old Myddelton's Money," &c. 3 vols.

"The author of ' Old Myddelton's Money' always manages to write interesting
stories'— ^cac?e;H«/.

'• The story ' A Wicked Girl ' has an ingeniously carried out plot. Miss Hay la
a graceful writer, and her pathos is genuine"— Posh.

THE WOOING OF CATHERINE. By E. Frances

Pointer, Author of " My Little Lady," &c. 2 vols.
"The figures are drawn with clear, bold strokes, each individual standing
before us with marked personality, while the backgrounds are effective and
striking'' — Literary World.

ST. Travels. By Mary Deane, Author of

Quatrefoil," &c. 3 vols.

The authoress throughout writes with moderation and consistency, and her
three ample volumes well repay perusal"— Z)at7j/ Telegraph.

' St. Travels ' is a story replete with variety, and in all developments of her
plot the author skilfully maintains an unabated interest"— J/orninsr Post.

A LILY MAID, By William George Waters.

3 vols.
A story of the keenest interest. Mr. Waters' plot is neat, and his style is
bright and pleasing"— Z)at/?/ reZegrrcTi)/}. .,. „ ,r • d /

' A Lily Maid ' is throughout exceedingly pleasant reading. —Morning Post.

HURST & BLACKETT'S

STANDARD LIBRARY.

LONDON:
13, GREAT Marlborough STREET, W.

•^

OF CHEAP EDITIONS OF

POPULAR MODERN WORKS.

ILLUSTRATED BY

Sir J. E. Millais, Sir J. Gilbert, Holman Hunt, Birket Foster,

John Leech, John Tenniel, J. Laslett Pott, etc.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

I.— SAM SLICK'S NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"The first volume of Messrs. Hurst and Blackett's Standard Library of Cheap Editions
forms a very good beginning to what will doubtless be a very successful undertaking
'Nature and Human Nature ' is one of the best of Sam Slick's witty and humorous productions,
and well entitled to the large circulation which it cannot fail to obtain in it-s
present convenient and cheap shape. The volume combines with the great recommendations
of a clear, bold type and good paper, the lesser, but attractive merits of being well
illustrated and elegantly bound." — Morning Post.

IL— JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

"The new and cheaper edition of this interesting work will doubtless meet with great
success. John Halifax, the hero of this most beautiful story, is no ordinary hero, and
this his history is no ordinary book. It is a full-length portrait of a true gentleman, one
of nature's own nobility. It is also the history of a home, and a thoroughly English one.
The work abounds in incident, and many of the scenes are full of graphic power and true
pathos. It is a book that few will read without becoming wiser and better." — Scotsman.

This story is very interesting. The attachment between John Halifax and his wife is
beautifully-painted, as are the pictures of their domestic life, and the growing up of their
children; and the conclusion of the book is beautiful and touching"— .4i/j€««M«i.

Il— THE CRESCENT AND THE CROSS.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.

"Independent of its value as an original narrative, and its useful and interesting
information, this work is remarkable for the colouring power and play of fancy with
which its descriptions are enlivened. Among its greatest and most lasting charms is ita
reverent and serious spirit"— Quartered Review.

Mr. Warburton has fulfilled the promise of his title-page. The ' Realities of Eastern
Travel ' are described with a vividness which invests them with deep and abiding interest
; while the 'Romantic' adventures which the enterprising tourist met with in his
course are narrated with a spirit which shows how much he enjoyed these reliefs from
the ennui of e very-day life"— ff/ode.

IV.— Nathaniel

JULIA KAVANAGH.

"'Nathalie' is Miss Kavanagh's best imaginative effort. Its manner ia gracious and
attractive. Its matter is good. A sentiment, a tenderness, are commanded by her which
are as individual as they are elegant. We should not soon come to an end were we to
specify all the delicate touches and attractive pictures which place ' Nathalie ' high amonij
books of its class." — Atlienosum.

v.— A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"These thoughts are good and humane. They are thoughts we would wish women to
think : they are much more to the purpose than the treatises upon the women and daughters
of England, which were fashionable some years ago, and these thoughts mark tha
progress of opinion, and indicate A higher tone of character, and a juster estimate of
woman's position." — Athenaeum.

This excellent book is characterised by good sense, good taste, and feeling, and rewritten
in an earnest, philanthropic, as well as practical spirit"— il/o/-«jny Fast.

VI.— ADAM GRAEME OF MOSSGRAY.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

•"Adam Gramme ' is a story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its
admirable pictures of Scottish life and scenery. The plot is cleverly complicated, and
there is great vitality in the dialogue, and remarkable brilliancy in the descriptive pastimes,
as who that has read 'Margaret Maitland ' would not be prepared to expect?
But the story has a ' mightier magnet still,' in the healthy tone which pervades it, in its
(feminine delicacy of thought and diction, and in the truly womanly tenderness of its
sentiments. The eloquent author sets before us the essential attributes of Christian
virtue, their deep and silent workings in the heart, and their beautiful manifestations ii
the life, with a delicacy, a power, and a truth which can hardly be surpassed"— Fortin ■
Point.

VII.— SAM SLICK'S WISE SAWS AND
MODERN INSTANCES.

"We have not the slightest intention to criticise this book. Its reputation is made, and
will stand as long as that of Scott's or Bui war's novels. The remarkable originality of
its purpose, and the happy description it affords of American life and manners, still continue
the subject of universal admiration. To say thus much is to say enough, though we
must just mention that the new edition forms a part of the Publishers' Cheap Standard
Library, which has included some of the very best specimens of light literature that ever
have been written." — Messenger.

VIH.— CARDINAL WISEMAN'S RECOLLECTIONS
OF THE LAST FOUR POPES.

A picturesque book on Rome and its ecclesiastical sovereigns, by an eloquent Roman
Catholic. Cardinal Wiseman has here treated a special subject with so much generality
and geniality that his recollections will excite no ill-feeling in those who are most conscientiously
opposed to every idea of human infallibility represented ifr Papal domination."
—Athenaeum.

IX.— A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

"We are always glad to welcome Mrs. Creak. She writes from, her own convictions,
and she has the power not only to conceive clearly what it is that she wishes to
say, but to express it in language effective and vigorous. In ' A Life for a Life ' she is
fortunate in a good subject, and she has produced a work of strong effect. The
reader, having read the booK through for the story, will be apt (if he be of our persuasion)
to return and read again many pages and passages with greater pleasure
than on a first perusal. The whole book is replete with a graceful, tender delicacy;
and, in addition to its other merits, it is written in good careful English"—
Athenaeum.

' A Life for a Life ' is a book of a high class. The characters are depicted with a
masterly hand ; the events are dramatically set forth ; the descriptions of scenery and
sketches of society are admirably penned ; moreover, the work has an object — a clearly
defined moral — most poetically, most beautifully drawn, and through all there is that
strong, reflective mind visible which lays bare the human heart and human mind to the
very core." — Morning Post.

X.— THE OLD COURT SUBURB.

BY LEIGH HUNT.

A book which has afforded us no slight gratification." — Athenaeum.

"From the mixture of description, anecdote, biography, and criticism, this book is very
pleasant reading." — Spectator.

•' A mort) agreeable and entertaining book has not been published since Boswell produced
his reminiscences of Johnson." — f^hstrver.

XI.— MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS.

"We recommend all who are in search of a fascinating novel to read this work for
themselves. They will find it well worth their while. There are a freshness and originality
about it quite charming, and there is a certain nobleness in the treatment both of
sentiment and incident which is not often found." — Athenaeum.

Nil— THE OLD JUDGE ; OR, LIFE IN A COLONY.

BY SAM SLICK.

A peculiar interest attaches to sketches of colonial life, and readers could not have a
safer guide than the talented author of this work, who, by a residence of half a century,
has practically grasped the habits, manners, and social conditions of the colonists he describes.
All who wish to form a fair idea of the difficulties and pleasures of life in a new
country, unlike England in some respects, yet like it in many, should read this book."
John Bull.

XIII.— DARIEN; OR, THE MERCHANT Prince.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.

This last production of the author of ' The Crescent and the Cross * has the sam
elements of a very wide popularity. It will please its thousands." — Globe.

Eliot Warburton's active and productive genius is amply exemplified in the present t
book. We have seldom met with any work in which the realities of history and the
poetry of Action were more happily interwoven." — Illustrated News.

XIV.— FAMILY ROMANCE ; OR, DOMESTIC ANNALS
OF THE ARISTOCRACY.

BY SIR BERNARD BURKE, ULSTER KING OF ARMS.

It were impossible to praise too highly this mjjst interesting book, whether we should
have regard to its excellent plan or its not less excellent execution. It ought to be found
on every drawing-room table. Here you have nearly fifty captivating romances with the
pith of all their interest preserved in undiminished poignancy, and any one may be read
in half an hour. It is not the least of their merits that the romances are founded on fact
^or what, at least, has been handed down for truth by long tradition — and the romance
of reality far exceeds the romance of &ci\on."— Standard.

XV.— THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"We have had frequent opportunities of commending Messrs. Hurst and Blackett
Standard Library. For neatness, elegance, and distinctness the volumes in this series
surpass anything with which we are familiar. 'The Laird of Norlaw' will fully sustain
the author's high reputation. The reader is carried on from first to last with an energy
of sympathy that never flags." — Sunday Times.

"the Laird of Norlaw' is worthy of the author's reputation. It ia one of the most
exquisite of modern xxo^qIs."— Observer.

XVL— THE ENGLISHWOMAN IN ITALY.

BY MRS. G. Bretton.

"Mrs. Bretton had opportunities which rarely fall to the lot of strangers of becoming
acquainted with the inner life and habits of a part of the Italian peninsula which is t> e
very centre of the national crisis. We can praise her performance as interesting, unexa^;
grated, and full of opportune instruction"— TAe Times.

"Mrs. Bretton's book is timely, life-like, and for every reason to be recommended It
is impossible to close the book without liking the writer as well as the subject. The work
'is engaging, because real." — Athenaeum.

XVII.-.NOTHING NEW.

BY THE AUTHOR OP " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'Nothing New' displays all those superior merits which have made 'John Halifax '
one of the most popular works of the day. There is a force and truthfulness about these
tales which mark them as the production of no ordinary mind, and we cordially recommend
them to the perusal of all lovers of fiction." — Morning Post.

Xvii— LIFE OF JEANNE D'ALBRET, QUEEN OF
NAVARRE.

BY MISS FREER.

"We have read this book with great pleasure, and have no hesitation in recommending
it to general perusal. It reflects the highest credit on the industry and ability of Miss
Freer. Nothing can be more interesting than her story of the life of Jeanne D'Albret,
and the narrative is as trustworthy as it is attractive." — Morning Post.

XIX.— THE VALLEY OF A HUNDRED FIRES.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS."

If asked to classify this work, we should give it a place between ' John Halifax ' and
'The Cantons.' " — Standard.
Tho spirit in which the whole book is written is refined and goo±"—Athmseum.
"This is in every sense a charming novel" — Messenger.

XX.— THE ROMANCE OF THE FORUM ; OR, NARRATIVES,
SCENES, AND ANECDOTES FROM COURTS OF JUSTICE.

BY PETER BURKE, SERJEANT AT LAW.

This attractive book will be perused with much interest. It contains a great variety
I's singular and highly romantic stories." — John Bull.

A work of singular interest, which can never fail to charm and absorb the reader's
attention. The present cheap and elegant edition includes the true story of the Colleen
ha.yfu "— Illustrated News.

XXL— ADELE.

BY JULIA KAYANAGH.

' Acme ' is the best work we have read by Miss Kavanagh ; it is a charming story,
full of delicate character-painting. The interest kindled in the first chapter burns brightly
to the close." — Athenaeum.

' Adele ' will fully sustain the reputation of Miss Kavanagh, high as it already ranks."
John Bull.

"ramble' is a love-story of very considerable pathos and power. It is a very clever
novel"— Daily News.

Xxii— STUDIES FROM LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"These 'Studies ' are truthful and vivid pictures of life, often earnest, always full of right*
feeling, and occasionally lightened by touches of quiet, genial humour. The volume is remarkable
for thought, sound sense, shrewd observation, and kind and sympathetic feeling
for all things good and beautiful." — Morning Post.

"These 'Studies from Life ' are remarkable for graphic power and observation. Th*
stook will not diminish the reputation of the accomplished author." Saturday Review.

XXIII.— GRANDMOTHER'S MONEY.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.

"W© commend 'Grandmother's Money' to reader in search of a good novel. The
characters are true to human nature, and the story is interesting." — Athenaeum.

XXIV.— A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS.

BY JOHN Corny Jefferson.

A book to be read and re-read; fit for the study as well as the drawing-room table and
the circulating library." — Lancet.

This is a pleasant book for the fireside season, and for the seaside season. Mr. Jeffrey
has, out of hundreds of volumes, collected thousands of good things, adding thereto
much that appears in print for the first time, and which, of course, gives increased value
to this very readable book." — Athenaeum.

XXV.— NO CHURCH.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.

"We advise all who have the opportunity to read this book. It is well worth the
study. ' ' — A athenaeum.
A work of great originality, merit, and power"— ^Stondarci

Xxvi— MISTRESS AND MAID.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"A good wholesome book, gracefully written, and as pleasant to read as it is instructive.
' ' — A thencBum.

"A charming tale, charmingly to\±"— Standard.

All lovers of a good novel will hail with delight another of Mrs. Oraik's charming
stories. "—/oAn Bull.

XXVII.— LOST AND SAVED.

BY THE HON. MRS. NORTON.

' Lost and Saved' will be read with eager interest by those who love a touching story.
It is a vigorous novel." — Times.

This story is animated, full of exciting situations and stirring incidents. The characters
are delineated with great power. Above and beyond these elements of a good novel,
there is that indefinable charm with which true genius invests all it touches"— Z)aiZy News.

Xxviii— LES Miserable.

BY YIOTOR HUGO.

Authorised Copyright English Translation.

"The merits of 'Les Miserable ' do not merely consist in the conception of it as a
whole ; it abounds with details of unequalled beauty. M. Victor Hugo has stamped upon
every page the hal-mark of gQuvas:'— Quarterly Review.

XXIX.— BARBARA'S HISTORY.

BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

"It is not often that we light upon a novel of so much merit and interest as
'Barbara's History.' It is a work conspicuous for taste and literary culture. It is a very
graceful and charming book, with a well-managed story, clearly-cut characters, and
sentiments expressed with an exquisite elocution. The dialogues especially sparkle with
repartee. It is a book which the world will like. This is high praise of a work of art
and so we intend it." — The Times.

XXX.— Life OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

A good book on a most interesting theme"— Times.

A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. ' Irving's Life ' ought to have a niche
in every gallery of religious biography. There are few lives that will be fuller of 
traction, interest, and consolation"— (Saturday Review.

XXXI.— ST. Slave's.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JANITA's CROSS."

'• This novel is the work of one who possesses a great talent for writing, as well as
experience and knowledge of the world. The whole book is worth reading"— ^^Aenoeum.

' St Slave's ' belongs to a lofty order of fiction. It is a good novel, but it is something
more. It is written with unflagging ability, and it is as even as it is clever. The author
has determined to do nothing short of the best, and has succeeded"— jl/ormny Post.

Xxxi— SAM SLICK'S TRAITS OF AMERICAN HUMOUR.

Dip where you will into this lottery of fun, you are sure to draw out a prize. These
Traits ' exhibit most successfully the broad national features of American humour"— Post.

XXXIII.— CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A more charming story has rarely been written. It is a choice gift to be able thus to
render human nature so truly, to penetrate its depths with such a searching sagacity, and
to illuminate them with a radiance so eminently the writer's own." — Times.

XXXIV.— ALEC FORBES OF Howled.

BY GEORGE MAO DONALD, LL.D.

"No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the work from the first page to the la,st."—Athenoeum.

"A novel of uncommon merit. Sir Walter Scott said he would advise no man to try
to read ' Clarissa Harlowe ' out loud in company if he wished to keep his character for
manly superiority to tears. We fancy a good many hardened old novel-readers will feel
a rising in the throat as they follow the fortunes of Alec and Annie"— Pall Mall Gazette.

XXXV.— AGNES.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

'Agnes ' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former woT\LB."—Athenceum.

"Mrs. Oliphant is one of the most admirable of our novelists. In her works there
are always to be found high principle, good taste, sense, and refinement. ' Agnes ' is
a story whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all readers"— i/^ornmgf Post.

Xxxvi— A NOBLE LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"Few men and no women will read 'A Noble Life' without feeling themselves the
better for the effort." — Spectator.

A beautifully written and touching tale. It is a noble hoo^."— Morning Post.

' A Noble Life ' is remarkable for the high types of character it presents, and the
skill with which they are made to work out a story of powerful and pathetic interest."
daily News.

XXXVII.— NEW AMERICA.

BY W. HEPWORTH DIXON.

A very interesting book. Mr. Dixon has written thoughtfully and well." — Times.
We recommend everyone who feels any interest in human nature to read Mr.
dixon's very interesting Xiook."'— Saturday Review.

XXXVIII.— ROBERT FALCONER.

BY GEORGE MAG DONALD, LL.D.

"robert Falconer' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
interest. It is a book to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and feelinga."—AthenoeuTn.

XXXIX.— THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'the Woman's Kingdom' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the purest
and noblest kind of domestic stories." — Athenaeum.

' The Woman's Kingdom ' is remarkable for its romantic interest. The characters are
masterpieces. Edna is worthy of the hand that drew John Halifax"— i/ornm^ Post.

XL.— ANNALS OF AN EVENTFUL LIFE.

BY GEORGE Webb DASENT, D.G.L.

A racy, well-written, and original novel The interest never flags. The whole work
epwkles with wit and hMmovLT."— Quarterly Review.

XLI.— DAVID ELGINBROD.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

"A novel which is the work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of
readers." — Times.

XLII.— A BRAVE LADY.

BY THE AUTHOR OP " JOHN HALIFAX,

"We earnestly recommend this novel. It is a special and worthy specimen of the
author's remarkable powers. The reader's attention never for a moment flags." — Post

"'A Brave Lady' thoroughly rivets the unmingled sympathy of the reader, and her
history deserves to stand foremost among the author's wov^s."— Daily Telegraph.

XLIII— HANNAH.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a wide
circle of readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty"— Standard.

"A powerful novel of social and domestic life. One of the most successful efforts of a
successful novelist"— Z)at7y News.

XLIV.— SAM SLICK'S AMERICANS AT HOME.

•• This is one of the most amusing books that wo ever rea-d."— Standard.
' The Americans at Home ' will not be less popular than any of Judge Halliburton's
previous wov^a."— Morning Post.

XLV.— THE UNKIND WORD.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'* These stories are gems of narrative. Indeed, some of them, in their touching grace
and simplicity, seem to us to possess a charm even beyond the authoress's most popular
novels. Of none of them can this be said more emphatically than of that which opens the
series, ' The Unkind Word.' It is wonderful to see the imaginative power displayed in
the few delicate touches by which this successful love-story is sketched out"— The Echo.

Xlii.— A ROSE IN JUNE.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"'A Rose in June' is as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and nay hold its own
with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford.' "times.

Xlvi— MY LITTLE LADY.

BY E. FRANCES Pointer.

"This story presents a number of vivid and very charming pictures, Indeed, the whole
book is charming. It is interesting in both character and story, and thoroughly good of
its 'kinder"— Saturday Review.

XLVIII.— Phoebe, JUNIOR.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
"This last 'Chronicle of Carlingford' not merely takes rank fairly beside the first
which introduced us to 'Salem Chapel,' but surpasses all the intermediate records.
Phoebe, Junior, herself is admirably drawn." — Academy.

XLIX.— LIFE OF MARIE ANTOINETTE.

BY PROFESSOR CHARLES DUKE YONGE.

A work of remarkable merit and interest, which will, we doubt not, become the most
popular English history of Marie Antoinette"— spectator.

L.— SIR GIBBIE.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

' Sir Fribble ' is a book of genius"— PaZZ Mall Gazette.
This book has power, pathos, and humour"— .iiAewcewm.

LI.— YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF *' JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'Young Mrs. Jardine' is a pretty story, written in pure English." — The. Times.

There is much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and wholesome"— J.i/ien«rMm.

LII.— LORD Brandenburg.

BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

"A very readable story. The author has well conceived the purpose of high-class
novel-writing, and succeeded in no small measure in attaining it. There is plenty of
variety, cheerful dialogue, and general ' verve ' in the book"— J.f/tenoeMm.

Lni.-IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS LASS.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

In ' It was a Lover and his Lass,' we admire Mrs. Oliphant exceedingly. It would be
worth reading a second time, were it only for the sake of one ancient Scottish spinster,
who is nearly the counterpart of the admirable Mrs. Margaret Maitland." — Times.

LIV.— THE REAL LORD BYRON— THE STORY OF
THE POET'S LIFE.

BY JOHN Corny Jefferson.

Mr. Jefferson comes forward with a narrative which must take a very important
place in Byronic literature ; and it may reasonably be anticipated that this book will be
regarded with deep interest by all who are concerned in the works and the fame of this
great English poet." — The Times.

'SAM SLICK, THE CLOCKMAKEE.'

Each in One Volume Frontispiece, and Uniformly Bound, Price 5s.

NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"We enjoy our old friend's company with unabated relish. This work is a rattling
miscellany of sharp sayings, stories, and hard hits. It is full of fun and fancy"— ^<A(i«(^M;«.

Since Sam's first work he has written nothing so fresh, racy, and genuinely humorous aa
this. Every line of it tells in some way or other— instructively, satirically, jocosely, or
wittily. Admiration of Sam's mature talents, and laughter at his droll yarns, constantly
alternate as with inhaling avidity we peruse the work. The Clockmaker proves himself
the fastest time-killer a-going." — Ohsei-ver.

WISE SAWS AND MODERN INSTANCES.

This delightful hook will be the most popular, as beyond doubt it is the best, of all tho
author's admirable works." — Standard.

The book before us will be read and laughed over. Its quaint and racy dialect will
please some readers— its abundance of yarns will amuse others. There is something to
suit readers of every humour." — Athenaeum.

The humour of Sam Slick is inexhaustible. He is ever and everywhere a welcome
visitor ; smiles greet his approach, and wit and wisdom hang upon his tongue. We promise
our readers a great treat from the perusal of these ' Wise Saws,' which contain a
world of practical wisdom, and a treasury of the richest fun." — Morning Post.

THE OLD JUDGE ; OR^^JFE IN A COLONY.

By common consent this work is regarded as one of the raciest, truest to life, most
humorous, and most interesting works which have proceeded from the prolific pen of its
author. We all know what shrewdness of observation, what power of graphic description,
what natural resources of drollery, and what a happy method of hitting off the
broader characteristics of the life he reviews, belong to Judge Haliburton. We have all
those qualities here ; but they are balanced by a serious literary purpose, and are employed
in the communication of information respecting certain phases of colonial experience
which impart to the work an element of sober utility"— Sunday Times.

TRAITS OF AMERICAN HUMOUR.

No man has done more than the facetious Judge Haliburton, through the mouth of the
inimitable ' Sam,' to make the old parent country recognise and appreciate her queer
transatlantic progeny. His present collection of comic stories and laughable traits is a
budget of fun, full of rich specimens of American humour." — Globe.

"Yankees, portrayed in its raciest aspect, constitutes the contents of these superlatively
entertaining sketches. The work embraces the most varied topics — political parties,
religious eccentricities, the flights of literature, and the absurdities of pretenders to learning,
all come in for their share of satire ; while we have specimens of genuine American
exaggerations and graphic pictures of social and domestic life as it is. The work will
have a wide circulation"— loan Bull.

THE AMERICANS AT HOME.

"In this highly entertaining work we are treated to another cargo of capital stories
from the inexhaustible store of our Yankee friend. In the volume before us he dishes up,
with his accustomed humour and terseness of style, a vast number of tales, none more
entertaining than another, and all of them graphically illustrative of the ways and manners
of brother Jonathan. The anomalies of American law, the extraordinary adventures
incident to life in the backwoods, and, above all, the peculiarities of American society, are
variously, powerfully, and, for the most part, amusingly exemplified." — John Bull.

In the picturesque delineation of character, and the felicitous portraiture of national
features, no writer equals Judge Haliburton, and the subjects embraced in the present
delightful book call forth, in new and vigorous exercise, his peculiar powers. 'The
Americans at Home ' will not be less popular than any of his previous works"— /"osf.

LONDON : Hurst AND Blackett, PUBLISHERS.

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

Each in One Volume, Frontispiece, and Uniformly Bound, price 6s,

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

This is a very good and a very interesting world. It is designed to trace the career
from boyhood to age of a perfect man — a Christian gentleman, and it abounds in incident
both well and highly wrought. Throughout it is conceived in a high spirit, and written
with great ability. This cheap and handsome new edition is worthy to pass freely from
hand to hand as a gift-book in many households." — Examiner.

"The story is very interesting The attachment between John Halifax and his wife is
beautifully painted, as are the pictures of their domestic life, and the growing up of their
children, and the conclusion of the book is beautiful and touching." — Athenaeum.

"The new and cheaper edition of this interesting work will doubtless meet with great
success. John Halifax, the hero of this most beautiful story, is no ordinary hero, and this
his history is no ordinary book. It is a full-length portrait of a true gentleman, one of
nature's own nobility. It is also the history of a home, and a thoroughly English one.
The work abounds in incident, and is full of graphic power and true pathos. It is a book
that few will read without becoming wiser and better." — Scotsman.

A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

"A book of sound counsel. It is one of the most sensible works of its kind, well written,
true-hearted, and altogether practical. Whoever wishes to give advice to a young lady,
may .hank the author for means of doing bo"— Examiner.

These'thoughts are worthy of the earnest and enlightened mind, the all-embracing
charity, and the well-earned reputation of the author of 'John Halifax.' " — Standard.

This excellent book is characterised by good sense, good taste, and feeling, and is
written in an earnest, philanthropic, as well as practical spirit"— Poi.

A LIFE For A LIFE.

We are always glad to welcome this author. She writes from her own convictions,
and she has the power not only to conceive clearly what it is that she wishes to say, but
to express it in language effective and vigorous. In ' A Life for a Life ' she is fortunate
in a good subject, and she has produced a work of strong effect. The reader, having read
the book through for the story, will be apt (if he be of our persuasion) to return and read
again many pages and passages with greater pleasure than on a first perusal. The whole
book is replete with a graceful, tender delicacy ; and, in addition to it other merits, it is
written in good careful English"— Athenaeum.

NOTHING NEW.

' Nothing New ' displays all those superior merits which have made ' John Halifax '
one of the most popular works of the da,j."—Post.

The reader will find these narratives calculated to remind him of that truth and
energy of human portraiture, that spell over human affections and emotions, which have
stamped this author as one of the first novelists of our day." — John Bull.

THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

'" The Woman's Kingdom ' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the purest
and noblest kind of domestic stories. The novelist's lesson is given with admirable force
and sweetness." — Athenaeum.

' The Woman's Kingdom ' is remarkable for its romantic interest. The characters
are masterpieces. Edna is worthy of the hand that drew John Halifax." — Most.

STUDIES From LIFE.

"These studies are truthful and vivid pictures of life, often earnest, always full of right
feeling, and occasionally lightened by touches of quiet genial humour. The volume is remarkable
for thought, sound sense, shrewd observation, and kind and sympathetic feeling
for all things good and beautiful"' — Post.

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

(continued,)

CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

"A more charming story, to our taste, has rarely been written. Within the compass
of a single volume the writer has hit off a circle of varied characters, all true to nature —
some true to the highest nature— and she has entangled them in a story which keeps U3
in suspense till the knot is happily and gracefully resolved ; while, at the same time, a
pathetic interest is sustained by an art of which it would be difficult to analyse the secret.
It is a choice gift to be able thus to render human nature so truly, to penetrate its depths
with such a searching sagacity, and to illuminate them with a radiance so eminently the
writer's own. Even if tried by the standard of the Archbishop of York, we should expect
that even he would pronounce 'Christian's Mistake' a novel without a fault." — The Times.

This is a story good to have from the circulating library, but better to have from one's
bookseller, for it deserves a place in that little collection of clever and wholesome stories
which forms one of the comforts of a well-appointed liomQy— Examiner.

MISTRESS AND MAID.

"A good, wholesome book, as pleasant to read as it is instructive." — Athenaeum.
This book is written with the same true-hearted earnestness as ' John Halifax.' The-spirit
of the whole work is excellent." — Examiner.
"A charming tale charmingly told." — Standard.

A NOBLE LIFE.

This is one of those pleasant tales in which the author of ' John Halifax ' speaks oufc
of a generous heart the purest truths of life.' — Examiner.

Few men, and no women, will read ' A Noble Life ' without finding themselves the'
better." — Spectator.

A story of powerful and pathetic interest"— Z>a% News.

A BRAVE LADY.

A very good novel, showing a tender sympathy with human nature, and permeated
by a pure and noble spirit." — Examiner.

"A most charming story." — Standard.

"We earnestly recommend this novel. It is a special and worthy specimen of the'
author's remarkable powers. The reader's attention never for a moment flags"— Posh.

HANNAH.

A powerful novel of social and domestic life. One of the most successful efforts of a-
successful novelist." — Daily News.

"A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a wide
circle of readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty"— <Sia«c?ar(i

THE UNKIND WORD.

The author of ' John Halifax ' has written many fascinating stories, but we can call to-mind
nothing from her pen that has a more enduring charm than the graceful sketches in
this work. Such a character as Jessie stands out from a crowd of heroines as the type of
all that ia truly noble, pure, and womanly"— C^wiYed Service Magazine.

YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

' Young Mrs. Jardine ' is a pretty story, written in pure 'English"— The Times.

"There is much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and wholesome." — Athenaeum

A book that all should read. Whilst it is quite the equal of any of its predecessors
in elevation of thought and style, it is perhaps their superior in interest of plot and
dramatic intensity. The characters are admirably delineated, and the dialogue is natural
and clear." — Morning Post.

LONDON : HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS.

MRS. Oliphant.

Each in One Volume, Frontispiece, and Uniformly Bound, Price 5s.

ADAM GRAEME OF MOSSGRAY.

• Adam Gramme ' ia a story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its
admirable pictures of Scottish life and scenery. The plot is cleverly complicated, and
there is great vitality in the dialogue, and remarkable brilliancy in the descriptive passages,
as who that has read 'Margaret Mainland' would not be prepared to expect?
But the story has a 'mightier magnet still,' in the healthy tone which pervades it, in its
feminine delicacy of thought and diction, and in the truly womanly tenderness of its
sentiments. The eloquent author sets before us the essential attributes of Christian
virtue, their deep and silent workings in the heart, and their beautiful manifestations in
the life, with a delicacy, a power, and a truth which can hardly bo surpassed"— ifor/»«s/
Post.

THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.

"We have had frequent opportunities of commending Messrs. Hurst and Blackett
Standard Library. For neatness, elegance, and distinctness the volumes in this series
surpass anything with which we are familiar. ' The Laird of Norlaw ' will fully sustain
the author's high reputation. The reader is carried on from first to last with an energy
of sympathy that never flags." — Sunday Times.

'the Laird of Norlaw' is worthy of the author's reputation. It is one of the most
exquisite of modem novels"— Observer.

IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS LASS.

•' In 'It was a Lover and his Lass,' we admire Mrs. Oliphant exceedingly. Her story ia
very pretty one. It would be worth reading a second time, were it only for the sake of
one ancient Scottish spinster, who is nearly the counterpart of the admirable Mrs. Margaret
Maitland." 2YmftS.

AGNES.

'Agnes' ia a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former works." — Athenaeum.

"Mrs. Oliphant is one of the most admirable of our novelists. In her works there are
always to be found high principle, good taste, sense, and refinement. 'Agnes' ia a story
whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all Te&dera."— Morning Post.

A ROSE IN JUNE.

'"A Rose in June' ia as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and may hold its iowa
with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford.' 'times.

Phoebe, JUNIOR.

"This last 'Chronicle of Carlingford' not merely takes rank fairly beside the first
which introduced us to 'Salem Chapel,' but surpasses all the intermediate records.
Phoebe, Junior, herself is admirably drawn"— Academy.

LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

"A good book on a most interesting theme." — Times.

"A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. 'Irving's Life' ought to have a nicene
in every gallery of religious biography. There are few lives that will be fuller of instruction,
interest, and consolation." — Saturday Review.

LONDON : Hast AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

GEORGE MAC DOMED, Bleach

in One Volume Frontispiece and Uniformly Bounds Price 5s.

ALEC FORBES OF Howled.

"No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the work from the first page to the last." — Athenaeum.

A novel of uncommon merit Sir Walter Scott said he would advise no man to try
to read ' Clarissa Harlowe ' out loud in company if he wished to keep his character for
manly superiority to tears. We fancy a good many hardened old novel-readers will feel
a rising in the throat as they follow the fortunes of Alec and Annie." — Pall Mall Gazette.

The whole story is one of surpassing excellence and beauty." — Daily News.

This book is full of good thought and good writing. Dr. Mac Donald looks in his stories
more to the souls of men and women than to their social outside. He reads life and
Nature like a true poet"— .Examiner.

ROBERT FALCONER.

' Robert Falconer ' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
interest It is a work to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and feelings"— ^^/jenoEwm.

"This story abounds in exquisite specimens of the word-painting in which Dr. Mac
Donald excels, charming transcripts of Nature, full of light, air, and colour"— Saturday
Review.

This noble story displays to the best advantage all the powers of Dr. Mae Donald's
genius." — Illustrated London News.

• Robert Falconer ' is the noblest work of Action that Dr. Mac Donald has yet produced."
— British Quarterly Review.

The dialogues in ' Robert Falconer ' are so finely blended with humour and pathos as
to make them in themselves an intellectual treat to which the reader returns again and
again." Spectator.

DAVID ELGINBROD.

"A novel which is the work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of
readers." — Times.

There are many beautiful passages and descriptions in this book. The characters are
extremely well drawn." — Athenaeum.

"A clever novel. The incidents are exciting, and the interest is maintained to the
close. It may be doubted if Sir Walter Scott himself ever painted a Scotch fireside with
more truth than Dr. Mac Donald." — Morning Post.

"David Elginbrod is the finest character we have met in fiction for many a day. The
descriptions of natural scenery are vivid, truthful, and artistic; the general reflections are
those of a refined, thoughtful, and poetical philosopher, and the whole moral atmosphere
of the book is lofty, pure, and invigorating"— G^Zoie.

SIR Gibber

Sir Gibbie ' is a book of genius"— PaZZ Mall Gazette.

"This book has power, pathos, and humour. There ia not a character which is not
lifelike. There are many powerful scenes, and the portraits will stay long in our
memory." — Athenaeum.

' Sir Gibbie ' is unquestionably a book of genius. It abounds in humour, pathos,
insight into character, and happy touches of description." — Graphic.

"sir Gibbie' contains some of the most charming writing the author has yet produced."
— Scotsman.

' Sir Gibbie ' is one of the most touching and beautiful stories that has been written
for many years. It is not a novel to be idly read and laid aside ; it Is a grand work, to be
kept near at hand, and studied and thought over." — Morning Post.

LONDON : HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS.

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

A woman's thoughts

ABOUT WOMEN.
A LIFE FOR A LIFE.
NOTHING NEW.
MISTRESS AND MAID.
THE woman's KINGDOM.

christian's mistake,
a noble life.

HANNAH.

THE UNKIND WORD.
A BRAVE LADY.
STUDIES FROM LIFE.
YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

WORKS by GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D,

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

DAVID ELGINBROD.
ROBERT FALCONER.

ALEC FORBES.
SIR GIBBIE.

WORKS by MRS. OLIPHANT.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS

LASS
THE LAIRD OF Norland
ROSE IN JUNE.

ADAM GRAEME OF MOSS-gray.

Phoebe, JUNIOR.
AGNES.

THE LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

WORKS by the A Author of ' SAM SLICK:
Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

NATURE AND HUMAN

NATURE.
WISE SAWS AND MODERN

INSTANCES.

THE OLD JUDGE ; Or LIFE

IN A COLONY.
TRAITS OF AMERICAN

HUMOUR.

THE AMERICANS AT HOME.

LONDON: HURST AND BLACKETT.

Mi

liiiiiilHiHiliKil

i!
