mm

m

OF THE

UN Diversity

or Ill Noise



A TALE OF AN' ARMY CRAMMER.

BY

HUGH COLEMAN DAVIDSON,

AUTHOR OF
'THE GREEN HILLS BT THE SEA," "CAST OX THE WATERS," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES,
VOL. I.

LONDON:

Simpson LOW, Marston, SEARLE, & Livingston,

LIMITED,

Sit ©imstan's pjousc,

Fetter Lane, Fleet Street, Eg.

1888.

\ All rights reserved.]

PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,

STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.

^.1

^' CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. Robbed . . . . 1

II. A Fashionable Crammer . . 23

III. Mr. Valentine Gaunt . . 40

IV. An Inquisitive Landlady . 56
V. An Alarming Discovery . . 65

VI. The Professor at Home . . 84

VII. A Proposal . . . . 101

-^VIII. The Rival Tutors . . 114

^^' IX. The Doctor's Dilemma . . 132

^ X. Found . . . . 150

^ XI. Greek meets Greek . . . 169

^ XII. Victor and Vanquished . . 186

Lxiii. An Alliance . . . 201

"\

XIV. Crams and Crammers . . 220

^-,

j^ 'XV. Groping in the Dark . . 245



CHAPTER I.

ROBBED.

*' Excuse me, sir, but is that my arm or
yours ? "

Can't say. Is it marked ? "

It ought to be marked ! " returned the
first speaker severely.

"Let me tell you, sir," quietly said the
other, a tall, well-built young fellow, '' that
I grow corns for my own inconvenience, and
not for the use of others."

Sapristi ! il fait chaud' exclaimed a
Frenchman, struggling with his handkerchief.

They ought to have provided beds if they

VOL. I. B

-DV3

intend to keep ns here all night," laughed a
gaudily-dressed woman.

Oh, my ribs ! "

Oranges — oranges — oranges ! who'll
buy?"

These and many similar exclamations proceeded
from a crowd striving to push through
the long narrow entrance to the Parnassus
Theatre : a difficult task, as the doors were
still closed.

Arnold Cressingham, as the tall young
fellow subsequently announced his name to
be, was cast in a very powerful mould, yet
his deliberate manner and drawling speech
betokened anything but the active athlete.
Upon his broad, square shoulders was set a
small but not unintelligent head, the forehead
high, the chin firm, and the nose irreproachable.
The corners of his mouth were slightly
turned down, which gave his features a
mournful expression not altogether in keeping
with his character. His grey eyes were
usually depressed beneath their long dark
lashes ; they seemed to lack the power of

smiling spontaneously, but when they caught
a smile elsewhere they seldom failed to reflect
it. Judged by his face and dark moustache,
he looked older than he really was, his age
being only just twenty-two.

His immediate neighbours in the crowd
were the gaudily-dressed woman in front ;
a flashy-looking individual behind ; a pale-faced
youth on the one hand, and, on the
other, the Frenchman, his nationality being
shown not only by his voice and features, but
also by the peculiarly fierce way in which he
resented being compressed into a smaller space
than he deemed consistent with his dignity.

When at length the doors were opened, the
crowd made a simultaneous advance, the
pressure increased, and the woman suddenly
subsided into Arnold's arms. Many young
fellows would have blushed to the roots of
their hair at being placed in such a compromising
position, but Arnold showed not
the least discomposure as he pressed forward
with his burden. It struck him, however,
that a little more room would be an advantage,

and, with this object in view, he
stamped upon the Frenchman's toes.

^' Sapiisti ! " indignantly cried the latter,
'' you have some weight, you great fellow,

you ! "

'' This, sir, is a struggle for the survival of
the fittest. Weight always tells in the long

run."

*that is sure ; it has told upon my foots."

There are so many foots about," observed
Arnold, coolly, " that it's easier to stand upon
other people's than upon one's own."

The Frenchman gave him a sharp, suspicious
look. He was completely puzzled by
the phlegmatic Englishman, who measured
out his words as if he were a draper anxious
not to give a customer too many yards of
ribbon for her money, and who seemed to be
joking, yet with a face as grave as a judge.
An angry retort rose to his lips, but his eyes
resting upon the woman, he was mollified at
once.

And now ensued a somewhat surprising
incident. Hastily disengaging one arm.

Arnold turned partly round and hit out withall
his might ; whereupon the flashy-looking
individual behind fell groaning to the ground.
The human stream experienced a sudden
check. It seemed to the bystanders that a
most unprovoked attack had been committed,
and they spoke their minds pretty freely.
Arnold, however, took no notice of them.
He had felt in his pocket a hand that he was
quite sure was not his own, so he had only
been protecting his own interests.

I shall know where to find him if I want
him," he drawled ; and having by this time
gained the barrier, pushed on and entered the
theatre.

But he had scarcely deposited his burden
upon a bench when some ungrammatical
person said —

That's him, there ! "

And the next moment he was tapped on
the shoulder by a policeman.

You're wanted outside, sir."

Indeed 1 " said Arnold, coolly ; " I merely
doubled the man up for future reference."

The policeman produced a pocket-book and
made a note of the remark. Then with his
pencil held ready, and his eyes fixed upon
Arnold, he said —

Eemember, you're not called upon to say
anything that may criminate yourself."

The scoundrel has taken my purse ! "
He had only just made the discovery.

'become with me, sir."

But what am I to do with this woman ? "

Woman, indeed ! " she cried, recovering
from her fainting fit with astonishing celerity,
and springing to her feet. " I'll teach you to
call me a woman, young man. Policeman, I
give him in charge. I had seven shillings in
my pocket when I came to the theatre, so
help me — ask Jack, if you don't believe me —
and where are they gone ? " She turned her
pocket inside out — it was empty. *' There !
now do you believe me ? All the time he
was pretending to help me he was robbing
me."

If it had been in Arnold's nature to manifest
astonishment at anything, he would

certainly have done so at being assailed in
this unexpected way, but he merely glanced
from the woman's flushed face to the official
mask of the policeman. There could be no
doubt that the whole thing had been a
** plant " — that while he was fully occupied
in carrying her, her confederate had been
picking his pocket. To lose his purse was
bad enough, but to be charged with robbery
was a thousand times worse. It was a
charge, too, that he might have a difficulty
in refuting. She had named almost the exact
sum that he had in his pocket, he had nota
single friend in London, and he could only
oppose his word against hers.

Of course, you don't believe her ? " he
said to the policeman.

I must take the charge."

'' Certainly you must take the charge," she
said ; " you must do your duty, for you're
paid for it."

It is a frightful swindle what she says,"
declared the Frenchman, whose toes Arnold
had treated so badly.

He had been watching this little scene, and
now stepped forward from the midst of a
number of curious spectators. The woman
turned angrily upon the new-comer. But
before another word was said the policeman
beckoned to them to follow him outside.

They are rascals, these people," whispered
the Frenchman to Arnold, as they followed
the .other two down the passage, which was
now almost deserted. " She is in league with
the fellow you knocked down ; I am sure of
that. I shall be your bail, if you will allow
me.

He handed to Arnold a card, on which was
printed, with many flourishes : " M. Dubarri,
Histrionic Professor, 13, Momus Street,
Bloomsbury."

You are very kind, sir," said Arnold,
feeling that it was unusual to gain a man's
favour by treading on his toes, and wondering
to what particular species a histrionic professor
belonged ; " but I trust I shan't require
your services. I am anxious to make my
debut, but not in a police-court."

You are going on the stage, then ? "
eagerly inquired M. Dubarri.

If the stage will have me."

The man has disappeared," announced the
policeman, coming back to them.

^' But the woman," cried M. Dubarri,
frantically waving his hand. '' Sapristil you
have not allowed her to go ? "

Why not ? "

Why not ? Parhleu I you are stupid,
you bobby fellow. They are in league.
Quick — quick — catch her. They have this
gentleman's purse. Do you not see it ? "
And the excited Professor, unable to control
himself any longer, dashed past the policeman,
and gained the street.

Too late, however. The woman also had
vanished.

It was a dreary September evening. The
rain was falling in a steady downpour; the
water in the gutters was running with a
consistency and colour that rivalled the neighbouring
Thames ; the gas-lamps were glimmering
with just sufficient light to show their

whereabouts at close quarters ; and most of
the shops were closed. Yet the street was
full of noise and bustle, caused by cabs and
omnibuses in the roadway, and two contending
streams of human beings upon the footpaths.
To hunt for the thieves in such a
scene would be clearly absurd.

Best impossible ! " muttered M. Dubarri.
Tarring to the policeman, he asked, " Did
you think that the bird would wait for you
to salt its tail? That is your English proverb,
I think."

How was I to know the two were working
together ? "

Ah, my good friend ! " said M. Dubarri,
playfully tapping the man on the shoulder,
you must paint the whole world black until
it whitens itself. The good persons are so
few you can. neglect them, as the mathematicians
do all small quantities. It is for you
to do with rules, is it not ? Yery well, then ;
you have nothing to do with the exceptions.
That is true, Mr. ? "

He stopped and looked at Arnold, who
said, " Cressingham."

Come with me, Mr. Cressingham ; I would
talk to you' continued M. Dubarri, familiarly
taking Arnold by the arm. ^' He is simple,
that bobby fellow," added he, shaking his disengaged
hand, which was closed except for the
forefinger, as the two walked along the street
together. " The Jack of whom she spoke,
without doubt he was the rascal to whom you
gave one for his nob. Allan, egayez-vous I
We shall find your purse, never fear."

I dare say it may turn up — empty. But
if we are going to talk, we had better do soin
my rooms than in the rain."

They accordingly quickened their pace, and
presently turned down a side street. At the
door of a dismal little house Arnold stopped.
They entered by the aid of a latch-key. M.
Dubarri's keen eyes noted every detail, from
the dingy lamp suspended in the hall to the
still dingier paper that threatened to tumble
from the walls. Arnold's rooms were at the
very top. He had selected them for two
reasons — economy, and their nearness to the
theatres. This being only the second day of

his tenure, he had not had time to realize
their inconvenience.

His sitting-room was small and gloomy.
Yery little light could penetrate the dust-encrusted
window, across which a pair of
faded green curtains were partly drawn. The
furniture was old and rickety — a table, a
few chairs, a broken-backed couch, and little
else's Arnold lighted a couple of candles, and
pulled down the blind.

It was with an expression of disappointment
that M. Dubarri took his seat on the
couch. He had evidently expected to see
something better than this. Nevertheless,
he was too fond of talking to allow his disappointment
to take a firm hold of him.

Let us take the opportunity of observing
him, as he sits there volubly discussing the
recent robbery, emphasizing this point with
an animated gesture and that with a shrug
of his sloping rounded shoulders, swaying
his slight and rather shrivelled body excitedly
to and fro, and, when his emotions
become too strong to be conveyed in a sitting

posture, rising to his feet to lay violent hands
on Arnold.

His forehead is high, narrow, receding,
and deeply furrowed, and the wrinkles run
along it in waves until even his hair is
moving up and down at times. Beneath
brows arched almost like Gothic windows,
twinkle small cunning eyes, lighting up occasionally
with a triumphant expression quite
fierce in its intensity. Two bald gulleys run
far into his dark hair tinged with grey ; and
his beard, whiskers, and moustache are of the
same colour. A funny little snub nose, on
which his gold-rimmed pince-nez can perch
as on a saddle ; clothes shockingly made, yet
not without a certain attempt at spruceness ;
the Ribbon of the Legion of Honour in the
button-hole of the coat ; plenty of shirt-front,
not too spotless ; a massive gold chain, shown
just a trifle too ostentatiously — these complete
the picture.

You wish to be an actor ? " he said, when
the question of the stolen purse had been
turned inside out.

"I do' replied Arnold, solemnly. He
was standing with his back to the grate, his
hands tucked up beneath his coat-tails.

You have no need of a nom-de-guerre^
Mr. Cressingham. Yours is an excellent
name."

I have no reason to be ashamed of it."

And you are of good family ? " said the
curious Professor, mentally contrasting the
dingy room with Arnold's gentlemanly appearance,
well-cut clothes, and gold chain, to
which, as he had observed, a gold watch was
attached.

Neither my father nor my mother has
been a notorious sinner."

Vous plaisantez, nest-ce pas f " exclaimed
M. Dubarri, with a swift inquiring look ; for
the idea of being used as a butt is singularly
irritating to the Gallic mind. " NHmporte —
no matter. You are a good fellow" — he
sprang up and seized the lappet of Arnold's
coat — " and I think I shall be able to help
you."

No good offer refused," said Arnold, complacently

looking down at the excitable little
Frenchman. " Are you a theatrical manager
in disguise, M. Dubarri ? "

No, no ; you mistake. Have you not
read my card ? I am a histrionic professor.
You understand ? I teach elocution to those
who have the grand passion to go on the
stage. If you will allow me, I shall teach
sou. Twelve lessons for one guinea — in
advance. That is cheap, is it not ? "

Yery," answered Arnold drily. Now
that he had lost his purse, he had exactly
seven-and-sixpence left in the world.

Eh, hen ! that is what I offer to you.
And after, you shall have introductions to
the managers. I know some who are very
good. They pay well, those managers ; but
then it will be necessary for you to show
ability. Have you ever practised ? " He
dropped Arnold's coat and stood with his
left hand laid on his chest, and his right
extended like a semaphore, as if to point out
the way it should be done.

I have done a little in the amateur line.

but I dare say that would be enough to hang
a professional."

Bah ! that is nothing ; nothing. You
must learn ; you must work day and night
like a slave ; and then you will win. You
Englishmen are so statuesque. You move
about like walking dreams ; there is no life
in you. Excuse me, but you see I am frank.
Suit the action to the word, that is my
maxim. Faites attention I "

M. Dubarri here gave a Shakesperian
recitation, accompanied by suitable pantomimic
gestures, his pronunciation of English
being anything but correct. Among other
things, the aspirate had proved a shibboleth
that he could never master, hard as he had
tried to get a grip of the slippery creature.
He could speak fairly well at times ; but
when he was strongly moved — a frequent
occurrence with him — his thoughts were sent
flying out in a parti-coloured garb, half
French and half English, sometimes with a
little colouring peculiarly his own.

Ah, I see you admire me, my friend,"

said he, breaking off the recitation abruptly.
"Well, I am not so bad. But, you see, I
have practised much ; I have worked hard.
Some day I shall make you as good as myself ;
that is to say, if you will permit me. You
will learn, eh ? And after, you shall have
the introductions and go on the stage and
make a fortune. Ah ! it is good to have the
grand passion."

And all for the outlay of one guinea,"
commented Arnold, half to himself.

In advance," added the Professor, correctively.
" For that, you shall have twelve
lessons, and then we shall see how you goon.
You need not decide now. Take my
proposition into your consideration, and write
to me. You have my address."

It is not pleasant to have to confess that
one's worldly wealth is limited to seven-and-sixpence,
and that this sum has to provide
board and lodging for an unlimited period.
It is far easier and far more agreeable to
prevaricate by means of a letter. This course
Arnold resolved to adopt. He told M.

VOL. I. c

DubarrI so, and the latter shortly afterwards
departed.

He had not been long gone when Arnold
strolled out to get something to eat. He
paused at the door of a neighbouring restaurant
and looked in. A general air of grease
and uncleanness pervaded the place. The
waiters were slovenly, and bread-crumbs were
lying upon the tables. Arnold hesitated ;
hungry though he was, he would sooner have
had bread-and-cheese upon a clean plate than
the most sumptuous repast badly served. But,
having made up his mind to be economical,
and reflecting that economy and dirt might
perhaps be inseparable companions, he resolved
to make their acquaintance forthwith.
On his previous visits to town, he had affected
the West End, and dined as his fancy had
dictated, without the need of any consultation
with his pocket ; he had even acted in the
same way on the previous day ; but, as a
seven-and-sixpenny aspirant to the stage, he
was obliged to turn over a new and very
skimpy leaf.

Roast beef, potatoes, and bread," he said
to the waiter, on taking his seat,

'' Beer, sir ? "

"Half a pint." Then to himself: " 
for the dinner, and sixpence to the
waiter ; if that isn't thrift, I don't know what
is." It will be seen that Arnold felt unable
to reduce the waiter's tip in the same ratio ashe
had reduced the rest of his expenses. -

His calculations were interrupted by hearing
one waiter say to another, " The gent
that sat there has bolted. He ordered mutton,
cabbage, potatoes, and a tankard of bitter, like
a lord ; and when I was attending to some
other customer, he just hooked it without
paying a brass farthing."

That's like many a lord, too," remarked
the other.

That may be, but he has let me in for the
price of his supper."

This brief dialogue brought forcibly to
Arnold's mind the fact that unless he bestirred
himself, his name also must soon be in
the defaulter's list. For the first time in this

life he was beginning to feel what it is to be
short of cash. Being a terrible procrastinator,
slow to think and move, and, when set in
motion, carried forward by his own momentum,
he had scarcely given the matter a
thought before ; but now, unable to adopt the
inexpensive mode of dining employed by
the gent that bolted," he felt the absolute
necessity of procuring money at once. The
loss of his purse had placed him in a very
awkward position. If, for example, his landlady
should demand payment for his rooms
in advance — and his goodly supply of luggage
had been his only reference — a pretty fix he
would be in !

I had better lend my watch and chain to
my uncle," he said, as he left the restaurant.
There are plenty of clocks about if I want
to know the time."

After having resolved upon taking this
desperate step, he was greatly disgusted to
find his uncle's establishment closed for the
night.

It was not until late in the following day

that he put his design into execution, for he
viewed the projected visit with anything but
pleasurable feelings.

In one respect fortune favoured him. A

thick white mist was rolling along the street,

enclosing each person in a fold impenetrable

to eyes a few yards away ; and under cover

of it, he made his way to the pawnbroker's

shop which he had noticed on the previous

evening. After satisfying himself that no

one was in sight, he swiftly entered, and

found himself confronted by a number of

small doors, all apparently locked. Each in

turn resisted his efforts, but at last one

yielded to his pressure. He carefully fastened

the door of the cell that he had temporarily

appropriated, and then laid his watch and

chain on the counter.

How much ? " demanded an assistant.
'' Thirty pounds. They cost forty."
Plough ! Can't give you anything like
that."

'' What will you give, then ? "
Nine-five."

What ? "

I'll spring half a crown, but that's the
very outside."

Needs must when the Old Gentleman
handles the ribbons. Look sharp."

What for this gold pencil-case ? " asked a
man in the next cell.

Arnold turned round sharply. Somehow
or other the voice sounded familiar to him,
though he was puzzled to know where he
had heard it before. The pawnbroker had
the pencil-case in his hand when Arnold,
who had been looking at it curiously, exclaimed
—

By Jove ! that's mine."

A sharp click, the bolt of the next cell
quickly drawn back, the door flung open, a
scuffling of feet, and the man was rushing
through the mist with Arnold in pursuit.

CHAPTER II.

A FASHIONABLE CRAMMER.

PuDDLETON is three miles from Tilbury,
which is its nearest railway station.

It is a small village, consisting merely of a
single street. Its houses are of various styles
of architecture, but all are antique, many
being apparently held together only by the
creepers and vines that are trailed so thickly
over them. The windows are mostly latticed ;
the doors are seldom shut, and never locked ;
and the bricks have long since lost their
maiden blush, and assumed a grey tint as
more becoming to their age. At one end of
the street are the Church, the Rectory, and
the Hut, an imposing house for the curate ;
at the other, live the doctor and the lawyer

in suggestive proximity to the public-house
and the police-station.

The village is sheltered by a range of
hills, the highest being Camelback, close at
the base of which it nestles like a chicken
under its mother's wing. The Splashwater,
a pretty little streamlet, babbles down the
slopes, and crosses the road, which is spanned
by a fine old bridge. The country around is
well wooded, but on the hill line there are
only a few stunted trees. All others have
been cut down by the keen edge of the wind,
and those that remain remind one of straggling
hairs on an ill-shaven face.

But in the immediate neighbourhood of
the village, the scenery is charming. The
lanes, sentinelled by oak and elm and chestnut,
lie deep between lofty sloping banks,
which are often nothing but continuous chains
of wild flowers. The very fields seem to have
been laid out with a view to please the eye
rather than to benefit the farmer, for they are
quaintly picturesque in size and shape. The
roads, too, twist hither and thither, apparently

for no other purpose than to lead
to the prettiest spots, and over the steepest
hills, and not infrequently they eddy around
some grand old tree such as an artist delights
to paint.

Situated in the beautiful quietude of the
country, it is no wonder that Puddleton slept.
If its annals had been written, they would
have resembled the first column of the Times,
for its only landmarks were births, marriages,
and deaths. John Hodge was born ; John
Hodge was married, and begat little John
Hodges ; John Hodge was gathered to his
fathers, and his sons toiled in his stead. Such
had been the unvarying round for centuries.

But one autumn " a change came o'er the
spirit of its dream." Puddleton awoke with
a start to find a very tempting apple dangling
before its eyes, and to be had, seemingly, for
the plucking. For at that time the Rev.
Claude Cyprian Copingstone, Dad., was presented
to the living. Had he been accompanied
merely by his family, the peaceful
monotony of the village would not have been

greatly disturbed ; but he brought with him
a dozen aristocratic pupils, who gave themselves
no end of airs and treated the rustics
as if they belonged to an inferior species.
However, the latter soon had their revenge.
These young fellows are rich, let us bleed
them," said Grammon the butcher ; and he
did his work in such an artistic style that he
has long since retired in affluence. Most
of the other tradesmen followed Gammon's
advice, and, as the pupils increased in numbers,
enlarged their shops, added to their
stock, and prospered amazingly.

Doctor Copingstone's object in coming to
such an outlandish spot seemed plain enough.
When the pupils described it as a dismal
hole, and asked what was to be done there,
he replied, " Work. For that purpose you
were confided to my care."

You dislike this place ? " he said once to
Lord Ernest Plantagenet, a younger son of
the Duke of Tudor.

I loathe it," was the candid response.

"Then," laughed the Doctor, and he had

a very singular laugh, ending with a long-drawn
sound like the gasps of an organ
when the performer is running up the scales
and the bellows-boy has fallen asleep, " do
your utmost to get out of it as quickly as
possible. In that way you will benefit yourself,
and me at the same time. Hunting " —
Plantagenet's dress suggested the remark —
is all very well for steady-going old Heaves
who seems to have made up his mind
to spend his life here, but suppose you have
to remain another year here ! "

Oh, Doctor, I should die ! "

No, don't do that. It would be awkward
for me. Put your shoulder to the wheel,
and push like a nigger. A capital place for
work is Puddleton."

This explains his reason for pitching his
tent in an isolated village. The pupils, cutoff
from every source of amusement, had to
take to their books, and so passed their
examinations with flying colours. But there
were times when they sought for other ways
of dispelling the ennui that hung like a

millstone from their necks, and dragged them
down to depths of unutterable dulness. The
haunted the Mark's-Nest for the purpose of
playing billiards, and sampling " the nutbrown,"
though both diversions were strictly
forbidden. The Doctor, however, knew all
about this habit of theirs, and winked at it.
So long as no actual harm was done, he cared
very little what they did, or where they
went. If they worked, he was satisfied ; they
were welcome to break all such rules as were
framed merely for the parental eye.

At the time when our story opens — two
years after his wife's death — he had upwards
of forty pupils. His terms were two hundred
guineas a year, and his living brought him
another five hundred, so he was in the receipt
of a very comfortable income.

I suppose I am what the world calls a
successful man," he said one day to his
lieutenant. " Yes, I suppose I am. To what
do you attribute my success ? "

To your unbounded impudence," audaciously
replied the other.

That's it, that's it," laughed the Doctor.
*' The Brazen has succeeded the Golden Age''

*' In your case they are contemporaneous."

There was much truth in this ; Dr. Coping-stone
would have made an excellent diplomatist.
He was naturally suspicious and full
of dodges. Regarding every one as plotting
to get the better of him, he took " time by
the forelock" and counterplotted. Yet he
was all the while so courteous, so good-humoured,
and apparently so willing to
oblige, that even those who saw through his
schemes could not help liking him. It was
seldom indeed that an anxious father, after
paying a preliminary visit of inspection, did
not go away thoroughly charmed with the
affable Doctor and the whole place.

In appearance he was a tall, thin, wiry man,
with a little sharp-featured face. His hair
was slightly grey, and so also was his long
beard. His eyes were remarkable small, but
as keen as a hawk's ; and for reading, he
usually employed a pair of gold-rimmed
glasses. He was always neatly dressed, his

coat buttoned very high on the throat, but
his hat was a curiosity — made of soft felt,
very tall and running almost to a point.
The hat alone showed him to be a man of
infinite resource, unhampered by any absurd
rules or restrictions.

The Doctor prided himself most upon his
cunning, and after that upon his cobs. They
were irreproachable to look at, grand steppes,
but decidedly meek-tempered : pretentious, in
fact, like their owner, and chosen for their
pretentiousness. Some years before, he had
a slight disagreement with the animal he
was riding at the time, and in the end they
parted company rather suddenly. The cob
galloped down the road and the Doctor stood
on his head in a turnip-field. It was a novel
and not altogether agreeable position for a
clergyman, and the Doctor firmly resolved
that it should never happen again. Since
then, if any of his horses showed the least
inclination to kick, rear, or buck-jump, he
disposed of it with characteristic promptitude.
His family consisted of a son, who had just

gone up to Oxford, and a daughter, a charming
girl of eighteen. The pupils considered
it the proper thing to fall in love with blue-eyed
Xellie Copingstone, and the consequence
was a good deal of hot-headed jealousy.
However, their wrath usually evaporated in
words, and their love manifested itself in
an eruption of sonnets, which the Doctor
intercepted and enjoyed many a hearty laugh
over.

There can be no doubt that if he had
wished to arrange a marriage between Nellie
and one of his pupils, he could easily have
done so, for he could have given her a dowry
sufficient to tempt many an impecunious
aristocrat ; but he had enough sense to see
that this would mean the immediate death of
the goose with the golden eggs. True, he
would have had no more daughters to marry,
but he would have been regarded as a man
ready for any deed of villainy. It had taken
him many years of almost incessant thought
and labour to build up the establishment
which had made his name famous ; he

regarded it with pride as a thing that would
last generation after generation ; and he was
not going to have it destroyed by any foolish
marriage. He meant it to grow and to
endure ; to pass to his son and his son's son ;
to become a modern Tower of Babel, more
successful than its prototype, lifting him to
the very skies.

He found, however, that the task of superintending
this vast intellectual forcing
machine was getting beyond his powers.
Though he would have been the last to
confess it to anybody else, he was the first to
feel it. So he began to look about for a
sort of universal genius, who, in cases of
emergency, should follow in his footsteps, of
course at a humble distance. He didn't
mind paying him a good salary, but a suitable
man must act as curate of the parish ;
take classics, mathematics, and occasionally
English ; write such letters as he couldn't
attend to himself; look after the pupils
generally ; pay the tradesmen's exorbitant
bills ; in fact, do everything that he didn't

care to do himself. It was a pretty large
order to be executed by a single individual ;
but, as already stated, Dr. Copingstone was a
man of resource.

He inserted in the Guardian an advertise-men,
merely stating that he required a curate
to assist with a few pupils, and offering a
large salary for this trifling work. He
received a hundred and fifty answers.

His method of selection was eminently
characteristic. He weeded out, first of all,
those who seemed to have applied pour passer
le temps ; then those whose testimonials were
lukewarm or contained suggestive omissions ;
and lastly those whose qualifications were
scarcely such as would recommend them for
high-class educational work. There remained
exactly nineteen. These he interviewed,
making them pay their own travelling expenses,
for the Doctor was a thrifty man in
small matters. Eleven more were afterwards
informed by letter of their rejection, nominally
because they lacked experience, really because
he considered that their personal appearance

VOL. I. D

would not recommend them to his aristocratic
pupils.

The eight survivors were now invited to
preach on consecutive Sundays in the parish
church, though they were kept in ignorance
of the fact that they were undergoing a
competitive examination. When all the
sermons had been delivered, the Doctor
started on a canvassing tour round the
parish and solicited votes, thereby gaining
the cheap popularity of which he was so
fond. He commenced with Mrs. Strathclyde,
the widow of the late squire ; then he went
to the doctor ; and so on, down to honest but
somewhat ignorant John Hodge, whose
knowledge of the English language extended
but little beyond such words as his cart-horses
understood. When all the votes had
been collected, the Doctor laid them on one
side and went by his own opinion. There
was a beautiful simplicity in the whole thing.
He had obtained eight sermons for nothing ;
he had pleased his parishioners by asking
their advice ; and now he pleased himself by

choosing the Rev. Leonard Sterne, M.A., as
his multifarious lieutenant.

Doubtless he might have made a much
worse choice, for Mr. Sterne was not only a
gentleman but also a scholar. He was a
slim, supple, active man, and, though getting
on towards his fortieth year, as nimble in the
cricket-field as when he had captain his
college eleven at Cambridge. His features
were cast in a rather austere mould, and the
effect was heightened by the length of his
face and brown beard, and also by a mouth
and chin showing remarkable inflexibility of
purpose. He could be very pleasant when
he chose, but it soon became evident that he
would never be generally popular — he was
far too conscientious for that.

He and his wife were installed at the Hut,
a large brick house, half hidden behind
Virginian creeper, and situated almost exactly
opposite the Rectory. Here lived the
majority of the pupils. Of the rest, some
were directly under the Doctor's eye, and
were facetiously styled " parlour-boarders,"

and the others were billeted upon the
different tutors, who, by the way, were called
professors," because it sounded better.

When the Doctor first arrived in Puddleton,
he would receive none but clever pupils,
likely to go off his hands almost immediately,
and advertise his wonderful ability ; but
while he was always careful to have a
number of these shining lights, he was afterwards
willing to put up with lesser luminaries
as well, for they, at any rate, signified a
settled income for a few years. '^ Steady-going
old Heavisides," he has already mentioned,
and there were plenty more of the
same species — youths with full pockets, but
empty heads, such as Gammon loved to bleed.
Sterne, indeed, gently hinted that this class
was scarcely receiving fair attention, but the
Doctor promptly suppressed him, in his
good-humoured yet decisive way.

Indeed, Sterne's greatest trouble was his
want of success in getting his chief to back
him up. Having no means of enforcing
discipline himself, he had to appeal to the

Doctor, and invariably with the same result.
He always received a smiling promise, which
was never meant to be fulfilled.

There's Plantagenet drinking in the
Mark's-Nest again," he announced one afternoon.


'^ Bless the boy ! What would his ducal
mamma say if she were to hear of it ? "

'' Give him a whipping, I should think,
and send him supperless to bed," replied
Sterne, with a grim smile.

*rand very proper treatment too — very
proper treatment. But how do you know ? "

Gammon told me." The butcher belonged
to the Doctor's Intelligence Department.

'* Ah ! an excellent man is Gammon. Why
don't you sometimes pop into the Mark's
yourself ? " His eyes, scarcely repressing
a humorous twinkle, were bent keenly
on the other. " That would scare them
away."

'' Because I don't wish to have a monopoly
of all the dirty work'"

The Doctor laughed. " I must speak to

Plantagenet," said he., bolting off to avoid
further discussion.

He kept his word, however : he did speak
to Plantagenet ; in fact, he gave him a
holiday to attend the meet of the Tilbury
Harriers.

When it has been ordained that a child is
to be punished for its misdeeds in the past,
and rewarded with a slice of bread and jam
to teach it virtue for the future, there is
sometimes a little rivalry between the parents
as-to who shall administer the whipping and
who the jam. It will be seen that the
Doctor's ingenuity enabled him to avoid this
difficulty ; the donation of the whipping
always fell to the lot of Sterne, while he
himself presented the jam. Naturally, this
did not add to the former's popularity ; but,
on the other hand, the latter acquired the
reputation of being a very jolly old fellow.

When Mrs. Copingstone died, Sterne had
been in Puddleton nearly eight years, and it
was largely due to his tireless energy that the
establishment had been so successful. Six

months later, however, there arose something
very like a rebellion against the strictness of
his discipline. The pupils complained that
he wished to treat them as if they were still
boys — which, in fact, most of them were —
and they made a powerful appeal to the
Doctor. It was an awkward dilemma, for he
could not afford to quarrel with either party.
He got out of it by privately assuring each
in turn of his hearty sympathy.

The incident taught him one lesson. He
felt that if he would maintain his numbers at
their present level, he must supplement his
staff with another tutor, whose popularity
should counterbalance Sterne's unpopularity.
Around the man upon whom his choice
eventually fell there hung an air of mystery
that kept Puddleton in a state of curious
excitement for many a month to come.

CHAPTER III.

MR. VALENTINE GAUNT.

In the Doctor's opinion, it was bad form to
advertise for pupils ; and worse than this, it
was bad policy, for it amounted to a confession
of weakness. No such disadvantage was
attached to an advertisement for a tutor.
But it was cheaper to have recourse to an
educational agent, whose fees came out of
the pocket, not of the employer, but of the
employed.

The agent to whom he went on this
occasion frankly admitted that he had the
very man to suit Dr. Copingstone. No
matter how polygonal the hole, these agents
are never at a loss for a block to fit it with
mathematical precision. In this case the
block was Mr. Valentine Gaunt.

"He has been strongly recommended tous,"
said the agent, using the plural recklessly
; "is a first-rate English scholar ;
speaks French like a Parisian ; moral character
irreproachable. Shall we send him down to
you, Dr. Copingstone ? "

He spoke rather like a horse-dealer anxious
to get rid of a notorious screw. The finishing
touch about the moral character was
doubtless intended to impress the clerical
mind; it came in capitally at the end, a full
stop, as it were, to any cavil. The Doctor
thoroughly understood it, but gave the
required permission, thinking that he might
as well see this remarkable tutor.

The next day Mr. Valentine G-aunt whirled
up to the door of Puddleton Eectory with all
the assumption of a duke. It soon turned
out that he also knew the value of appearances.
He brought with him two testimonials.

Roughly speaking, compositions of this
sort may be divided into two classes : the
first, brief, official, and incisive ; the second,
friendly, and almost intimate in tone. Mr.

Yalentine Gaunt's testimonials were fair
specimens of both styles.

The first ran thus : —

Mr. Yalentine Gaunt has assisted me in
the education of my pupils for the last five
years, and it gives me the greatest pleasure
to testify to his attainments and his ability in
teaching. His acquaintance with English
literature is unusually extensive ; he is well
read in natural science, and his French is
excellent. Besides having the art of imparting
his knowledge to others and being a
good disciplinarian, he has the power of
gaining the confidence of his pupils by a
kind manner and a readiness to enter into
their amusements. His moral character is
without reproach.

F. DuBARRi (Professor).

13, Montis Street, Bloomsbury."

It may be difficult to detect the Histrionic
Professor's hand in the foregoing
document, but this is a mere detail. It is
a peculiarity of many testimonials that they

show none of the usual signs of the writer's
individuality.

The second of those submitted to the
Doctor was as follows : —

"Dear Mr. Gaunt,

"I am delighted at having the
opportunity of testifying to your knowledge
of French. Indeed, I may say that I have
never met an Englishman who speaks or
writes my language better than you do, and,
as you know, my experience has been a wide
one. Will you permit me to add that I consider
your intellectual attainments to be far
above the average, and that I feel quite sure
you will honourably, intelligently, and to the
best of your ability, discharge whatever trust
may be committed to you.

Accept my best wishes, and believe me
to be,

Dear Mr. Gaunt,

Yery sincerely yours,
"F. Dunois,

Professor of the French Language
and Literature."

This testimonial seems entitled to respect,
though it afterwards appeared that Mr.
Valentine Gaunt spoke the '' French of
Stratford-atte-Bow " — most villainous stuff.

The signature had a strange effect upon the
Doctor : an effect that the other was quick to
perceive and turn to his own advantage. He
did not exactly dictate terms, yet those that
he demanded and received far exceeded his
wildest expectations. This took place in the
end of May, and by the beginning of June,
Mr. Valentine Gaunt was fairly established
in the village.

Although he soon became a favourite, his
appearance was scarcely prepossessing. He
was rather tall, round-shouldered, yet powerfully
built, and with a tendency to corpulence.
The hair had almost deserted the top of his
head, but he had grey whiskers and moustache
of the mutton-chop species. His cheek-bones
were prominent, his brows dark and bushy,
and his forehead was unusually heavy. In
his manner he was extremely deliberate,
dropping out his words one by one, in a

harsh grating voice ; and when he walked,
each foot hovered in the air as if waiting to
ascertain the safety of the ground.

The house assigned to him was situated
between those of the village doctor and the
lawyer. It was called the Hive, and stood
in a good-sized garden. The " parlour-boarders"
were transferred to his charge, for
the Doctor felt it desirable to clear them all
out of the Rectory. Nellie had attained an
age at which the heart goes its own disobedient
way, without heed to warnings or
remonstrances, so it was only prudent to take
timely precautions.

Mr. Yalentine Gaunt was not long in ascertaining
on which side his bread was buttered.

In order to stand high in the Doctor's
favour, he saw that he must go hand-in-glove
with the pupils. Nothing was easier : he
had merely to get them to work, but, otherwise,
to let them do exactly as they chose.
By following his '' method," as he called it,
he transformed the Hive into a Liberty Hall.
He permitted smoking at all his lectures, the

Professor himself leading the way with a
large meerschaum pipe ; and as the Mark's
was very handy, the thirsty pupils could
just pop over there for an interval of light
refreshment. As a natural consequence, Mr.
Valentine Gaunt became exceedingly popular,
and there was a general stampede from the
Hut to the Hive.

If Leonard Sterne's position had been bad
enough before, it was now almost unendurable.
He had been striving to do his duty, not only
as a tutor but also as a clergyman, and by
dint of kindness and perseverance had succeeded
in establishing a better spirit among
many of the pupils, only to find his work
completely demolished by the new-comer.
Unless the tide were speedily stemmed he
himself might be swept away. Yet what
could he do ? Threaten to resign ? He was
sincerely attached to the Doctor, in spite of
his petty trickery ; he would have been very
loth to leave Puddleton, especially at a time
when he felt that his services were more than
ever needed there ; and, after all, he was buta

poor man who could not afford to give up
his present high salary if he could conscientiously
retain it. No ; he decided that
resignation must be his last resource.

After several ineffectual appeals to Mr.
Yalentine Gaunt, who merely laughed at
what he styled " grandmotherly legislation,"
and trotted out his method, Sterne saw that
the only thing for him to do was to lay the
matter before the Doctor. Yet here, again,
he was beset by difficulties. In his own
heart he was conscious that he was acting
with singleness of purpose ; but would others
think so ? Would not they ascribe it to
jealousy of a more successful tutor, and, by
so doing, defeat the object that he had in
view ?

It must here be explained that, as each
tutor received a capitation fee for every pupil
in his house, popularity brought more than
mere numbers, which, in themselves, would
have been of no great benefit — it brought
money. The pupils had but to express a
wish as to which house they would live in

and the Doctor at once granted it ; so that
they migrated hither and thither, without
any regard to the feelings of the tutors concerned.


Sterne, then, would lay himself open to the
charge of trying to check the migration from
the Hut to the Hive. Probably, also, as our
most conscientious acts are the very ones that
are most liable to be misconstrued, it would
be said that he wished to ruin his rival, and
drive him out of the place. He had carefully
considered all this, but it did not deter him.
Though he admitted that he heartily disliked
Mr. Yalentine Gi-aunt, he would have been
the last to wish him harm.

It's very bad, Sterne, very bad," said the
Doctor, when the matter had been laid before
him. " Gaunt really ought to know better.
What am I to do ? "

It is for yon to lead, Dr. Copingstone,
and for me to follow," replied Sterne, who
was not going to have another burden laid
on his shoulders.

I suppose Plantagenet ought to go," said

the Doctor thoughtfully. " He's the ringleader
in every piece of mischief."

The lad is good enough at bottom. He
only wants ballast. It is Mr. Gaunt's duty
to keep him in order."

So it is, Sterne, so it is. I quite agree
with you there. But, you see, my friend, he
hasn't your power of maintaining discipline.
With your example before him, he must learn
in time, for he is a capital tutor. Just look
at the marks his pupils got in this last
examination ! It was wonderful— wonderful ! "

But Sterne brought him back to the point
with — " What do you intend to do ? "

Oh, I'll speak to Mr. Gaunt at once.
The card-playing and drinking must be
stopped, of course. We " — Sterne rather
winced at being included in this cool way — ■
*' must teach these young rascals that we are
not to be trifled with. We have been giving
them too much rope, Sterne. However, I'll

pull them up sharply now. By the way "

And then he dallied off to another subject.

It is scarcely necessary to say that nothing

VOL. I. E

came of this conversation. In order to
appease Sterne, the Doctor did go so fur as
to make a slight fuss, but he was very careful
to let its unreality be seen. And so matters
went on in the old way.

In fact, the rivalry between the two tutors
suited his purpose capitally. He played the
one against the other, pointing out to Gaunt
the high marks that So-and-so had obtained
in Latin or Greek, and to Sterne what another
pupil had gained in French or English. The
consequence was that each did a vast amount
of gratuitous work, lest he should lose the
Doctor's favour.

They were also useful in another way.
When Mrs. Heavisides — who had delivered
a lecture in Exeter Hall, and was reputed to
be a very religious woman — came to Puddleton
to visit her steady-going son, she was
received by the Doctor and the Eev. Leonard
Sterne ; but when the Earl of Belgravia, who
vas generally considered a trifle fast, arrived
on a similar mission, he was met by the
Doctor and Mr. Valentine Gaunt. In the

latter case a preponderance of the clerical
element might have been considered objectionable,
so a layman was introduced to talk
to his lordship on sporting matters, should
time hang heavy on his hands. It was a
pretty Httle arrangement, and worked well.

But after a while, it became evident that
the balance was o-ettino- very uneven ; that
Sterne's influence was falling and Mr. Valentine
Gaunt's rising. Indeed, the latter's
power over the Doctor, who had hitherto
been a veritable despot, was so remarkable
that it was the cause of much curious speculation.
Some ascribed it to his success with
his pupils, and not altogether without reason,
for the fact was undeniable, though it only
made the affair more mysterious.

It was very doubtful whether Mr. Valentine
Gaunt, notwithstanding his testimonials, had
been engaged in tuition before his arrival at
Puddleton. The pupils were not slow in discovering
that his sole stock-in-trade consisted
of a slight knowledge of Shakespeare and a
large knowledge of the world. But with

these and an overweening confidence in libras
lie started in business, and prospered.
The nest cannot be feathered without a
certain amount of trouble, unless, indeed, an
old one be appropriated, and then as often
as not it is a misfit. Mr. Yalentine Gaunt
knew this, and worked hard, until at length
he had mastered his subjects. As they mostly
consisted of English authors — Chaucer, Shakespeare,
Bacon, and the other favourites of the
Civil Service Commissioners — it was not a
very wonderful achievement ; but the same
cannot be said of his accuracy in foretelling
the questions set in French. Here his
success was simply amazing. Of course, the
crammer who knows his business can usually
predict the general nature of a paper if only
he can learn beforehand the name of the
examiner and study his style ; but, as we
have seen, Mr. Yalentine Gaunt did not
know his business — he had to learn it ; and
to the very last his French was atrocious.
What, then, was the secret of his success ?
It was a puzzle to everybody.

Many held it to be the cause of his influence
over the Doctor, though the more
cautious declared that there was more in the
matter than appeared on the surface. On
one point, however, they were unanimous —
that sooner or later a collision between the
rival tutors was inevitable.

The first shock occurred early in September.

Plantagenet, Heavisides, and a tutor named
Jenkins drove over to the Cygnet, at Still-bury,
and lunched there. It could scarcely
be said that they drank to excess ; at any
rate, the two pupils did not ; but Jenkins,
being unaccustomed to anything of the sort,
was rather inclined to be free and easy on
his return to Puddleton. This reached
Sterne's ears — as nearly everything did, for
there was a very obnoxious system of
espionage in vogue — and he promptly demanded
the dismissal of the offender. Mr.
Valentine Gaunt, on the other hand, declared
that it would be altogether preposterous to
visit a mere peccadillo with such a severe
penalty. The Doctor held the scales, which

were plainly inclining towards the latter,
when out spoke Sterne.

'' Dr. Copingstone," he said firmly, " if
you allow Jenkins to remain here after this
disgraceful occurrence, you leave me no alternative
— I must place my resignation in your
hands. I could not work with a colleague
who had given way to intemperance ; and
a want of harmony between your tutors
would be destructive to your interests, and
also to those of the pupils. I say nothing
aliput the moral side of the question ; surely
that is unnecessary. You know as well as
I do how bad "

Allow me, Mr. Sterne," interrupted Mr.
Valentine Gaunt. " My method "

But Sterne waved him back.

Let Dr. Copingstone first decide this
question," he said. 'ram I to go? or is
Jenkins to go ? One of us must."

Jenkins shall go," declared the Doctor.

It was a victory for Sterne, but to win it
he had been obliged to fall back upon his
reserves. He felt that he had good cause to
dread the future.

Two angry spots studded Mr. Valentine
Gaunt's cheeks as he walked back to the
Hive. It was the first check that he had yet
received, so he felt it all the more keenly.
That his rival had been forced to threaten
resignation in order to carry his point, gave
him but little satisfaction. He had been
defeated ; and that was all he could think
about. But the defeat taught him one lesson
that he must strengthen his position before
he ventured upon another contest. And to
this he devoted all his energies.

CHAPTER lY.

AN" INQUISITIVE LANDLADY.

I SUPPOSE you will give me my pencil-case,"
said Arnold Oressingham to the pawnbroker.
He was panting a little, for he had
just returned from an unsuccessful chase after
the man who had stolen his purse.

Can you identify it ? "

"It has the monogram 'A. C engraved
on the end. Is that enough ? "

Quite. I know the thief, and shall put
the matter in the hands of the police. Ah,
yes, your watch and chain. Nine-seven-six
was the sum I mentioned. Will that suit
you?

It must, if you will give no more."

And the pencil-case ? "

Arnold hesitated a moment, and then said,
No, I'll keep it."

He put it in his pocket, and, when he had
received his money, left the shop.

He returned to his lodgings. As he was
going up the stairs, he met Mrs. Smith, his
landlady, coming down. It was not the first
time that it had happened, and the frequency
of the coincidence struck hit as rather
curious. Although he spoke to her in passing,
she made no reply. This again he felt to
be matter for wonderment, a taciturn landlady
being certainly a novelty.

Yet the explanation is simple enough.
Mrs. Smith was naturally inquisitive, and as
she knew nothing about her lodger, who had
given her no references, his evasion of the
many questions she had put to him had
aroused her suspicions. To her mind, reticence
could mean nothing more nor less than
guilt, and she was the more strongly convinced
of this since he had introduced a
foreigner into the house. As a loyal subject,
therefore, she had taken upon herself to look

into the matter. Her investigations bad led
to one remarkable discovery : Arnold bad
torn the labels off bis luggage and the scraps,
so small that there was no possibility of
piecing them, lay behind the tinsel-paper in
the grate. After this there could be no
doubt that be was a criminal of some sort.
In the interests of justice sbe proceeded to
examine bis pockets. They were empty.
Alas ! bow often does the groper after truth
meet with the same result ? Still, not altogether
discouraged, sbe went to bis desk. It
was locked. This really was exasperating,
and the worst of it was that none of ber keys
would fit the lock. Sbe carried ber researches
a great deal farther than it is necessary
to mention bere, but they all tended in
disappointment and failure.

Arnold knew nothing of ber proceedings
until the following morning, when they were
brought home to him in a very unpleasant
way.

He had somehow or other got an idea into
his head that a knowledge of Shakespeare



was the speediest road to success on the
stage. He might have derived it from the
Histrionic Professor, or perhaps some earlier
authority; but whatever the source, he put
it into practice with unusual animation.

With a formidable looking sword-cane in
his hand, he was reciting Macbeth's soliloquy
for the third or fourth time, when there
sounded a heavy footstep on the stairs.
Immediately afterwards the door was thrown
open, and there appeared the stalwart form
of a policeman, backed up by Mrs. Smith and
her slatternly servant, peeping one on each
side. If the two women wore an air of
triumph, they were clearly ready to shriek
and run at a moment's notice.

The policeman grasped his staff and called
upon Arnold to surrender ; which he did by
laying down his sword-cane. He then proceeded
to explain that he was studying for
the stage, and had merely been reciting
Shakespeare ; but his explanation was received
with general incredulity. Few persons
care to acknowledge that they have discovered

a mare's-nest, and least of all a
policeman. Arnold was therefore put through
a searching examination, and his answers
were considered anything but satisfactory.
He would not say where he came from ; why
he had torn the labels off his luggage ; who
were his friends. In short, he absolutely
declined to give any information about himself.


Then," said the policeman, not without
a certain grim satisfaction, " you must accompany
me to the station."

Here was another awkward dilemma. It
seemed fated that Arnold should fall into the
hands of the police. This man, he felt, was
particularly stupid and obstinate ; he could
only hope that the inspector would be more
intelligent.

The inspector in charge of the police-station
turned out to be a red-headed man,
with a very irritable temper. He was even
more implacable than the policeman. It was
impossible, he said, that any one should be
so strangely reticent unless he had something

to conceal. Arnold had only himself to
blame for the suspicions against his character ;
would he give a reference as to his respectability
? Remembering M. Dubarri's offer
on a previous occasion, Arnold determined
to avail himself of it. A messenger was
accordingly sent off to the Professor's address.

The police-station was a cold, dismal place,
unprovided with books or papers of any
kind. Arnold pointed out the deficiency.
He was one of those tiresome fellows who
will persist in saying the most irritating
things, yet so gravely that it is impossible to
tell when they are in earnest. As the
inspector, who was busy writing, took no
notice of the remark, Arnold went on to
suggest that a cushion for his chair would
be acceptable. This time he was requested
to hold his tongue. Whereupon lie drew out
a case of cigarettes, and politely offered one
to the inspector, who refused it with a curt
intimation that smoking was strictly forbidden
on the premises.

Presently a prisoner was led in between

two policemen. He was a stone, coarse-featured
man, with a florid complexion and
a red nose, and his general appearance had a
suggestion of the turf. He gave a slight
start at seeing Arnold, and immediately
turned his back on him.

'' Prisoner's name ? " asked the inspector,
pen in hand.

John Martingale."

Charge ? "

Robbery — a gold pencil-case."

Here Arnold began to take a greater
interest in the proceedings.

On whose information ? " demanded the
inspector.

Mr. Gilbert's, pawnbroker."

'' Anything else ? "

"No, sir."

Yes," said Arnold from his chair. " I'll
thank Mr. John Martingale to return the
purse he borrowed from me."

A dead silence followed, every one turning
round to stare at Arnold. After a while the
inspector began —

Do I understand you "

Can't say. That man stole my purse.
There is plain English for you."

The inspector had come to the conclusion
that Arnold was slightly demented. So
instead of resenting his unofficial language,
he asked merely —
When ? "

Three nights ago, at the pit entrance to
the Parnassus. This," producing it, " is the
stolen pencil-case that was in the purse.
Mr. Gilbert returned it to me."

In the end, the prisoner was searched and
the missing purse found in his pocket. It
was a slice of luck that Arnold certainly had
not anticipated. But as he resolutely declined
to prosecute, he was now regarded with
greater suspicion than ever. What was the
objection ? Expense ? Nonsense ; the expense
would be a mere trifle. He could not
afford to waste even a mere trifle. But a prosecution
in the interests of the community was
not waste. To which Arnold replied that the
community was able to take care of itself.

Why should I be its champion ? " he
asked. " Because I have been unfortunate ? "

No answer from the inspector, who was
examining the contents of the purse. He
drew out a cheque.

Hullo ! what's this ? " he asked, looking
at Arnold with quick suspicion.

At this moment M. Dubarri entered.

CHAPTER V.

AN Alarming DISCOVERY.

Two love, and my service'* said Philip
Strathclyde, standing with uplifted racquet
close to the laurels iu the Rectory garden.

The next moment the ball went whizzing
over the net. Hebe Pike never stirred as it
flew past her. She would no more have
thought of returning it than of playing
skittles with the stars and comets.

I detest your overhand service," she said.

Fifteen love," laughed Philip. " I never
do anything underhand. Miss Pike."

Again the ball flew on its way like a
rocket. It was scooped into the air, and fell
stir away from the court.

Bother ! " exclaimed Mildred Strathclyde,

VOL. I. F

a tall, graceful girl, not unlike her cousin.
I do wish you would send me something I
can hit, Philip."

Thirty love. I have never been able to
find out what that is."

Something soft, and not too high, and
not too low," suggested Hebe.

Do you wish to win ? " he asked.

Certainly," replied both of the opponents.

*' And you, Miss Copingstone ? " he said to
his pretty partner.
>* Certainly, Mr. Strathclyde."

Then I must do the best for my own
side."

And he, accordingly, rattled off the game.

The garden was a quaint, old-fashioned
place, with flower-beds cut into all manner of
curious shapes, box-trees resembling peacocks
and strange birds, mythological and original,
a profusion of sweet-williams, hollyhocks, and
cabbage roses ; and a broken sun-dial at the
bottom of the lawn. Behind the ivy-clad
Rectory were gnarled old fruit trees, and
beyond was an excellent kitchen garden,

separated from Camelback only by a single
meadow in which stood Puddleton Mill.

The tennis-ground was an innovation, of
course. It had been originally used for
croquet ; but being just a nice length, and
surrounded by a wall of laurels on every
side, except where it touched the Rectory, it
suited its present purpose admirably. At any
rate, the two cousins seemed to think so, for
they often walked over from the Manor to
play there.

It had long been an understood thing that
Philip was to marry Mildred, and so to
succeed to the squirearchy. It had been his
uncle's last wish ; Mrs. Strathclyde always
spoke of it as definitely settled : and so it
was generally considered. Perhaps the only
persons not consulted in this convenient
arrangement were the young people themselves,
and they certainly behaved to one
another more like brother and sister than
affianced lovers. Indeed, it could not well
have been otherwise ; they had lived together
from childhood, and in features, manner, and

character the resemblance between them was
so great that love seemed out of the question.

On the other hand, if any one had been
watching the game, he could scarcely have
helped seeing that there was something more
between Philip and Nellie than mere friendship.
It showed in their looks, their tones,
their smiles, their blushes ; they both appeared
strangely happy, and yet not altogether
at their ease. Hebe Pike, whose eyes were
as sharp as needles, noticed that Philip never
took the ball from Nellie's racquet, but
always from her hand, and this struck her
as a very significant circumstance.

'' A love game," he declared, stealing a sly
glance at his partner.

A love game, was it ? " said Mr. Valentine
Gaunt, coming from behind the laurels
in his cat-like way. He dragged out the
words to an inordinate length, and his almost
sneering tones not a little disconcerted Philip
and Nellie. " If any one is tired," he went
on, '• I shall be glad to play."

We have just finished," said Nellie.

*but surely you are not going to stop
yet?"

I am," replied Mildred. " I must begetting
home now."

And I promised to be back at four," said
Hebe.

And I am rather tired," added Nellie.

Mr. Valentine Gaunt looked exceedingly
annoyed. After having taken the trouble
to put on flannels and shoes, it was very
vexatious to be cut out of the game in this
way.

** I trust," he said, " that I have not disturbed
your game."

The suggestion is entirely your own, Mr.
Gaunt," retorted Nellie severely.

She took Mildred by the hand, and the
two girls were going off together, when he
stopped them with —

Well, if you really won't play, I have
something to tell you. It's not my method
to worry any one unnecessarily, so I had
resolved to wait till you had finished playing.
Arnold has never arrived at Oxford."

It is no wonder that Nellie looked terrified,
for her brother had started for the University
nearly a week ago.

"What! " she cried.

Your father has just received a telegram
from Arnold's tutor, asking what has become
of him."

There was a piteous look in the blue eyes
as she faltered out, " Can he have been — can
there have been a railway accident ? "

'' Oh dear, no."

She stopped to hear no more. Without
another word, she darted through the laurels,
and so into the house.

Probably," announced Mr. Valentine
Graunt to the other three, ''he is only having
a lark in London."

'you don't know Arnold, if you say that,
Mr. Gaunt," cried Philip hotly.

Perhaps my knowledge of him is more
intimate than your own, Strathclyde." This
was true enough, for he and Arnold had been
much together during the last few months.

And you think he has not come to any

harm ? " inquired Hebe Pike, with ill-concealed
anxiety.

It was rumoured that she was actually
engaged to Arnold Copingstone, but that the
Doctor refused to sanction the engagement.
The daughter of a pettifogging country
lawyer, forsooth ! He looked a good deal
higher for his son than this,

What do you mean by harm. Miss
Pike?"

'' Do you think anything has happened to
him?"

Nothing worse than what he calls a
spree," replied Mr. Valentine Gaunt, carefully
watching the effect of his words upon her.
He had plenty of money, for the doctor
gave him a big cheque. Before that is
finished, the prodigal will turn up at Oxford.
Every dog has his day : far better when a
puppy than when it can do any real harm
with its tusks. For all that " — he laid an
emphatic forefinger in the palm of his hand —
even if Arnold Copingstone be a little wild
now, and we don't know that he is, he will

grow up a very worthy man." With this
remarkable utterance, he left her.

The news was soon known to everybody in
the village, chiefly through the agency of
Joseph Haply, who united in his portly
person the varied vocations of grocer, wine
merchant, hardware retailer, parish clerk,
and postmaster. In the latter capacity he
had unrivalled advantages of gaining information.
Miss Haply manipulated the telegrams,
so it is easy to see how the worthy
postmaster became acquainted with Arnold
Copingstone's disappearance, concerning which
the wildest rumours were afloat before
evening.

In due time they reached the ears of
Leonard Sterne.

Whose brain is not sometimes compelled to
entertain unwelcome guests ? If man were a
mere machine, as some would have us believe,
how is it that he is at the mercy of thoughts
which come unbidden and unprepared for,
and are, in many cases, utterly opposed to
his nature ? It was one of these thoughts

that now entered Sterne's head : '' Gaunt is at
the bottom of this ! " Like a flash of lightning
it was upon him, and his face reddened with
shame for himself. He knew it was a
thoroughly baseless suspicion ; it was unjust ;
it was unworthy of him ; and yet he had to
struggle against it as against a human foe.

Fortunately he had just received a new
book, and, by its aid, he was able to get rid
of this distressing thought. To most of usa
Clerical Directory would not be a very
interesting book ; but Sterne found it so.
He had never possessed one before, and he
was anxious to see how some of his old
college friends had fared.

He was sitting in his study at the time — a
pleasant room looking out upon the lawn,
with Camelback in the background. There
was a well-worn briar-root pipe in his mouth,
for he was a great smoker, except during
Lent, when he rigorously abstained from
tobacco and every other luxury. As he sat
at his writing-table and turned over the
pages of his new Directory, it occurred to

him to see what was said about the Doctor.
Great was his surprise at finding that the list
did not contain the name of Copingstone.
Thinking that it might have been displaced,
he hunted right through the letter C ; then
he laid down his pipe and turned to the end.
Perhaps it might be among the corrigenda.
But no ; his search was fruitless : the name
of the Rev. Claude Cyprian Copingstone,
Dad., Rector of Puddleton, was not in the
book.

It was a singular omission, Sterne felt, the
Doctor being a very punctilious man in
everything connected with his own dignity.
This was one of the things about which he
would be most particular. As the Doctor's
secretary, Sterne resolved to speak about it
at once, for it would be his duty to get it
rectified.

He was putting on his hat, when his wife
a pleasant little bird-like woman — entered
the room.

'* Leonard, do you think Mr. Gaunt knows
anything about Arnold ? " she asked.

It was she who had told him about the
young man's disappearance, so she was
merely resuming the conversation.

What makes you ask such a question ? "
he gasped. He felt just as if a blow had
struck him.

^^Why, Leonard, I have not frightened
you, surely."

"Not frightened me, dear, but it's a
horrible accusation to bring against any one."

Well, I detest Mr. Gaunt. Oh, you need
not tell me it is uncharitable, for feelings will
have their own way. He and Arnold were
great friends latterly, and now I hear he
doesn't care a bit, and says he is having a
lark in London."

He gave a deep sigh of relief. At first he
had feared that she really had some plausible
reason for her suspicion, some hint thrown
out by one of the villagers, who often gave
her a good deal of miscellaneous information.

You must get rid of that idea, Lucy,"
said he, tenderly stroking his wife's hair.
It is all my fault, I know. I should

never have told you of my dislike for Mr.
G-aunt."

But I dislike him on my own account.
Who could like him ? His very face is
against him. He is so different from you in
every way."

*' There is not much resemblance between
a door-scraper and a chair, yet both have
their uses."

Mr. Gaunt is certainly the door-scraper'
she laughed, " for all the mud seems to go
naturally to him."

And I am the chair, I suppose," added
he with a smile, " for I am continually being
sat on. But joking apart, Lucy, your suspicion
of Gaunt is unjust. Will you promise
me to forget all about it ? "

I'll try."

It is easy enough to resolve to forget a
thing ; but Leonard Sterne, as he walked upto
the Rectory, felt that both he and his wife
would have some difficulty in blotting out this
suspicion. He had almost mastered it when
her words had brought it back stronger than

ever, and now it was a veritable giant to
grapple with.

He found the Doctor alone in his study, a
large handsome room, with one window
looking out upon the lawn and the other
upon the garden in front. The furniture
was of carved oak, and the upholstery red
morocco ; everything good, comfortable, and
not too new. There was a writing-table in
the centre, opposite the tiled grate ; books
occupied one wall, and pictures the other
three. The ornaments were few but expensive,
and the carpet was as soft and springy
as velvet. In fact, it was a very luxurious
study, well suited to impress visitors with
the fact that the Doctor was a successful
tutor.

I have come to ask whether I can be of
any assistance to you ? " said Sterne.

No, thank you, Sterne ; no, thank you,"
replied the Doctor, wearily.

The loss of his son struck at the very root
of his ambition. It was a strange sight to
see this self-reliant man looking thoroughly

broken down in body and spirit. He was
sitting at the table, bis bead resting in ibis
band.

^' Can I make a search for you ? " Sterne
went on. " Tbe pupils could get on without
me for a day or two."

"No, thank you, Sterne; no, thank you.
You are very kind, but Gaunt bas been good
enough to start off to London for me."

Sterne winced at this ; be could not help
wincing, tbougb be felt that be was once
more being ungenerous to bis rival. Betimes
bad gone by when be stood alone at the
Doctor's right band, and when not a thing
was done except by bis advice ; it remained
for him to adapt himself to these altered
circumstances.

Can I do nothing, then ? " he asked.

No, I think not, except arrange the work
for tomorrow. I should have started for
Oxford to-day, bad not the news arrived so
late. I can't think," he added, with sudden
emphasis, " what bas become of the boy, can
you ?

No, indeed, I can't."

The Doctor sighed, almost as if lie had
expected to receive a more satisfactory answer.

Well, well," he said, " perhaps I shall
find out tomorrow. By the way, don't tell
the pupils of my intended absence."

No," replied Sterne, with a smile ; " the
mice shall not hear of the cat's departure
until "

They find out," added the Doctor, with a
brief return to his lighter manner.

He had a curious way of swearing his
tutors to secrecy, and then taking the pupils
into his confidence. It was one of his many
little dodges which, even in his trouble, he
could not depart from.

Sterne turned to the other object of his
visit.

By some extraordinary negligence," he
said, " your name has been omitted from the
Clerical Directory. I suppose the fault rests
with the editor, or perhaps you forgot to fill
up the form. Shall I write about it ? "

No, no ; I don't care about it at all,"

replied the Doctor, rather brusquely. As if
conscious that some explanation was necessary,
he added, "It's too much like advertising,
you know, and I abominate anything of the
sort. In fact, it is low."

But the bishops and archbishops "

"They do as they like; so do I. Don't
forget about my going to Oxford tomorrow."

He snatched up a pen, and began to write
with desperate energy.

It was impossible to misunderstand this
hint. Sterne retired, more puzzled than he
had ever been in his life before. Advertising
was palpably dragged in merely as an
excuse — a poor one, no doubt, but the best
that occurred at the moment. In fact, it was
a downright fib. This meant business of
some sort, for the Doctor was not the man to
utter such an clerical thing without an
object. Such conduct Sterne would have
considered most reprehensible in any one
else, but he had grown so accustomed to it in
the Doctor, that he had come to regard it
as mere playfulness. But why it had been

resorted to now, was more than he could
explain.

Next morning, about ten o'clock, the
Doctor's carriage drove empty through the
village. This was his ingenious method of
telling his pupils that he was going away,
and yet of pretending to deceive them for the
sake of the tutors. It was his constant
endeavour to make everybody believe that he
alone maintained discipline in the place, and
by incessantly dinning this into all around
him, he actually verified it. The pupils,
taking his word for it, no sooner heard of his
departure than they rushed headlong into
every kind of mischief, which delighted bim
not a little, for he regarded their disorderly
conduct in his absence as the highest testimonial
to his ability.

Some of them were lolling about when the
carriage passed. Lord Ernest Plantagenet,
tired of geography, had come out to enjoy a
quiet cigar ; Yiscount Silverspoon, who had
made so many mistakes in spelling that he
had retired in disgust with the over-particular

VOL. I. G

professor of that subject, was engaged in the
seductive pursuit of badgering Gammon the
butcher; Wilfred Merridale was giving an
amusing imitation of rustic manners ; and
steady-going old Heavisides, who hated
everything that was not sedentary, was
moored to a big meerschaum, and, with the
customary smile on his broad, good-natured
face, was strumming on a banjo, his constant
companion.

He's off," exclaimed Plantagenet, pointing
to the carriage.

Sly old fox," murmured Heavisides, " and
thinks we don't know."

Ha, ha ! let's do something," suggested
Silver spoon.

Give him a tally-ho when he breaks
cover," said Merridale.

So the four of them started for the brow
of the hill beyond the village, whence they
observed the Doctor's tall, thin, wiry figure
striding across the fields towards his carriage,
which had stopped for him. They waited
until he was safely in, and then gave him an
ear-splitting salute.

'gone away! Tally-ho !— tally-ho ! " to
which Plantagenet added a few "Hark
forwards " on his own account.

The Doctor stood up and waved his hat to
them. If he had been less troubled, he would
certainly have chuckled at the legacy he was
leaving Sterne.

CHAPTER YI.

THE PROFESSOR AT HOME.

Over Momus Street broods an air of unutterable
dejection and melancholy. The currents
of-life sweep by, but seldom an eddy makes
its way there. The very wind steals more
softly between those two straight rows of
small houses, as regular as soldiers in line,
and as dusky as if the said soldiers had just
returned from foreign service. The blinds
and curtains are usually drawn as if the sun
where always hot there. One would think
that the street was inhabited by a colony of
undertakers' mutes.

The morning was well advanced when
there came along a tall, round-shouldered
man, thoughtfully stroking his mutton-chop

whiskers, and walking with hovering footsteps.
It was none other than Mr. Valentine
Gaunt in quest of Arnold Copingstone. Let
us see how he executed his mission.

There was no hesitation in his movements :
he walked as if he knew Momus Street well.
At the door of No. 13 he stopped and rang
the bell, without even pausing to look at
the brass plate, on which was inscribed —
M. Dubarri, Histrionic Professor."

Yes, sir," said the servant, in answer to
his inquiry, '' the Professor is at home. Will
you come in ? "

He was ushered into the sitting-room.

Wealth and learning are so seldom boon
companions, that no surprise can be excited
by the fact that the Professor did not appear to
be in very affluent circumstances. The prevailing
colour of the cheap furniture was a
faded green, and the innumerable ink-stains
on the table-cover showed that the tenant of
the room was addicted to literary pursuits.
A plaster bust of Shakespeare adorned the
mantelpiece ; one of Sheridan peered from

the top of the bookcase. There were several
French prints on the walls, and the hearthrug
was monopolized by a black cat and a pair of
slippers.

"• Ah, ha ! " cried M. Dubarri, rushing into
the room, and wringing his visitor's hand
with violence. '* You look fat, my friend.
It is clover upon which you live, I think."

If after all my troubles," returned the
other gravely, " I have found a comfortable
niche at last, it is only what I deserve."

Thanks to me."

Yes, I owe you a debt of gratitude."

M. Dubarri's cunning little eyes began to
twinkle. " I like not much debts of any
sort," he observed.

But I paid you according to agreement.
Would you have more ? "

'' No, my friend, no ; you have been good.
Seat yourself, and after, we shall talk. Uk
hen ! You have come to see me. For
pleasure ? Surely not. For business ? I
think so. Come, then, let me hear."

About the next examination ; when will

you let me have the paper ? You are a most
unmethodical man, M. Dubarri."

Soon — in a week or two. You will come
and fetch it ? "

Yes. I hoped you could have given it
to me now. It is a nuisance having to come
to town again."

You are very close, Mr. Valentine Graunt,"
said M. Dubarri, his eyes still twinkling.
Why will you not let me have your address ?
Then I could write to you."

The Puddletonian Professor laughed. " I
give you full credit for no wish to harm me,"
he said, in his deliberate way, " but your
action must depend upon the state of your
pocket. How are the funds ? "

I am poor, but I am honest."

*' As honest as a mousetrap."

Sapristi ! " cried M. Dubarri, springing
to his feet and gesticulating wildly. '' You
are a rascal yourself. Why do you throw
stones at my glass bouse ? Yours, T think,
is brittle too. Well — well," added he, seeing
a scowl on the other's face, "let us be

honourable men. I shake you by the hand,"
and he suited the action to the word.

How many pupils have you now ? " asked
Mr. Valentine Gaunt, glad to change the
subject.

Not one. Alas ! I perfect them with too
much rapidity. They get wings and flyaway.
But there is one young fellow who
may come to me — Mr. Cressingham. It is a
good name, is it not ? He is wealthy, I
think, for his watch and chain — ah ! they are
superb. So I say to myself, ' You will go the
whole hog.' And I ask him one guinea for
twelve lessons. Ho will accept, I am sure."

How much did you tell nie your friend
gets for his examinership ? "

Forty pounds yearly. Parhleu I it is a
pittance."

The Civil Service Commissioners can't
expect a very high standard of morality for
that sum."

M. Dubarri shrugged his shoulders. '' He
is moral enough," he said, " bat he is not a
fool. Would you have him throw away his

chances ? Forty pounds and not take pupils !
it is impossible. He must make his hay while
the sun is shining."

There sounded a knock at the door, and a
servant entered with a letter.

"' From Mr. Cressingham," announced the
Professor, when he had read it. "I must goto
him at once. He is in the police-station."

A promising pupil," commented Mr.
Valentine Gaunt.

"Oh, it is nothing; only some nonsense.
I shall soon set that right."

Well, when am I to have the advance-sheet
of the French paper ? "

Ten days from now."

After a few more words they parted ; Mr.
Valentine Gaunt going to transact a little
business in his methodical way, and then
returning to Puddleton.

M. Dubarri's arrival at the police-station
has been already chronicled.

'' Well, my young friend," said he to
Arnold, " your letter has given me a surprise,
but I am come, you see. Have you been

giving another rascal one for bis nob ? You
are a famous fellow to fight, you big Englishman
you."

The inspector stared harder than ever.

One moment," said Arnold. " Sit down
on that chair, M. Dubarri. It will make you
the more ready to pity me, and the more
anxious to get away."

Then he turned to the inspector, and added
in a subdued tone, " That cheque is mine."

I thought you said your name is Cres-gingham."


"" So it is — my theatrical name."

'' And Arnold Copingstone is your real
name r

'' Yes."

'• I must speak to your reference here before
I can return you the cheque," said the inspector,
still clinging to his suspicions.

Remember that he knows only my
theatrical name, so say nothing about the
other."

'' You know this gentleman ? " asked the
inspector of M. Dubarri.

Certainly," replied the Professor, as if he
had long been intimate with Arnold.

And you can speak as to his respectability
? "

"To be sure. He is a gentleman. Can
you not see it ? "

Your card, sir."

After a good deal of fumbling, the Professor
produced a pocket-book, hastily pulled
out a card, and handed it to the inspector,
who read aloud —

' M. Dubois, Professor of the French
Language and Literature, 13, Monies Street,
Bloomsbury.' I thought," added he sharply,
your name was Dubarri."

M. Dubarri was blinking like an owl. His
shoulders seemed to have been arrested in
the act of perpetrating a shrug, and his hands
were spread out before him. He looked like
a man struck by a sudden blow and trying
to collect his energies for some cunning
return.

"Let — me— see," said he, placing his
pince-nez on his funny little snub nose. '' It

must be some mistake, I think. Oh, I see !
I have given you the wrong card. Dubarri
is my nom-de-guerre. I am an agent for the
theatre, histrionic professor. You shall judge
for yourself that I speak the truth."

He produced a card similar to the one he
had given Arnold. As the addresses were
the same, the inspector expressed himself
satisfied, though he instituted some inquiries
afterwards. At any rate the cheque was
eventually restored to its owner.

He and his friend in need left the police-station
together. It was agreed between
them that Arnold should transfer his belongings
to Momus Street, he agreeing to pay a
certain sum weekly for board and lodging.

'^ You shall have lectures all day long,"
said the Professor, enthusiastically. " I
charge you a mere trifle. But your society
ah ! that will be nice. You have lost
your watch and chain, my friend," added he,
with a sudden look of anxious interest. '' You
have been robbed again, eh ? "

•" Ye?, by a relative."

*' You mean it ? "

I do indeed."

** Then what will you do for the time of
day ? " This question was not so superficial
as might be thought, its object being to
ascertain whether Arnold had enough money
to replace his loss, and so to pay for the
valuable lectures.

For answer, he pointed to the clock of a
neighbouring church.

But," said M. Dubarri, with a gesture
of impatience, " this is not Momus Street.
We have no churches there, no clocks, no
nothing."

You are well off then," drawled Arnold.
The hours will slip by unnoticed."

Vous plaisantez toujours s. Tell me, what
of your watch ? "

I pawned it."

I feared so," said M. Dubarri, with a
heavy sigh. The news had thrown a very
subdued light over his companion's respectability.
After all, he might not be a desirable
pupil.

But when I have cashed my cheque I
shall redeem my property."

'' Ha ! you have a cheque ? "

The sparkle leaped into M. Dubarri's eyes
with magical suddenness. Arnold was a
thorough gentleman, and no mistake. The
Professor felt so strongly on the subject that
he was obliged to stop in the middle of the
street in order to shake his companion's
hand.

Two hours later, they arrived at No. 13,
Momus Street.

Arnold was not long in making himself
thoroughly at home there. He was one of
those imperturbable fellows who take things
exactly as they come. The bedroom allotted
to him was small, and the Professor's '^ mere
trifle" a pretty round figure, but Arnold
accepted the one and paid the other without
question or complaint.

When he left Puddleton, he had no idea of
taking this fatal plunge, for, as regards his
father's favour, he felt that it was fatal ; he
had acted on one of those strange impulses

from which even men of his disposition are
not exempt. He had always entertained the
greatest dislike for the career mapped ont for
him by the Doctor, and a strong liking for
the stage, and his tastes in this direction had
been only strengthened by concealment. His
father had always treated him more as a
pupil than as a son ; there had never been
any confidences between the two, never any
bond of sympathy; the Doctor's mind was so
engrossed with his establishment that Arnold
had been compelled to take refuge in himself.
The link was slight enough at any time, and
it snapped when Arnold found himself in
London, with plenty of money in his pocket,
and a chance of escaping from the odious life
of tuition that lay before him.

He told himself also that he did it for
Hebe Pike's sake. His father would not
allow him to marry her, so he would carve
out an independence for himself, and then no
one could oppose him.

Whether he was likely to attain his object
by residing with M. Dubarri is another

matter. His phlegmatic disposition was
brought into striking contrast with the
Frenchman's wonderful vivacity. The tutor
shouted, gesticulated, and danced about the
room, while the pupil looked on with a face
like a mask. No doubt he learned in this
way much that should be avoided, though
such was scarcely the Professor's object ; and
perhaps also he acquired more animation than
he otherwise would have done.

As regards M. Dubarri's qualifications for
teaching, he described them himself one
evening. The manner in which the explanation
came about was as follows.

Being in an unusually quiescent mood, he
was sitting in an arm-chair by the fire, reading
the Figaro, while Arnold was sauntering
about the room. Presently, the latter stopped
at the bookcase. Without any definite purpose,
he took down an old mathematical work
in French, and began carelessly to turn over
the pages. A slip of paper fluttered to the
ground, and M. Dubarri happened to lookup
and see it. In a moment he sprang to

his feet, dashed across the room, and picked
it up.

Sapristi ! it is mine," he cried. " Why
will you pry into my affairs ? You are close,

like all Englishmen, and yet But no

matter. Come, we are friends." He patted
Arnold on the back and led him to a chair.
I shall tell you something about myself, if
you wish."

Certainly."

Yery well then. Who I am, does not
matter much. What is the use of a title
without lands or money ? A plain monsieur
can teach pupils and earn a few pounds, but
for a nobleman — bah ! he would only be
laughed at. So here I am, M. Dubois, Professor
of the French Language and Literature,
and M. Dubarri, Histrionic Professor, but of
this you must be silent as the mouse. Dubarri
sounds Italian ; it is better so. People will
say, ' Here is an Italian who speaks French
like a Parisian, and English like a Londoner.
Parhleu ! he is a miracle ; we shall go and sit
at his feet.' So they come to me, and I live "

Wot,. I. H

here the little eyes began to blink — " with
difficulty. Ah ! the world is a queer place ;
it is the scum that floats to the surface.

My friend, my life has been a strange
one. I was born to riches, money, land,
houses, everything that I could wish, except
parents. They died when I was a little
fellow, no higher than that." He held his
hand about two feet from the floor. " I was
the heir to a fine estate, and now it belongs
to others. I have never seen it since." His
voice faltered and he suddenly dashed off
with : " But why should I trouble you with
my sorrows ? You must know I lived in
stormy times. As a Frenchman, I was a
politician, and as a French politician I was
obliged to fight for my opinions. I was too
well known to run with the crowd. The
twig can bend with the wind and be unnoticed
among the leaves, but the gilded
weathercock — all eyes are upon it.

I was Orleanist to the backbone. Louis
Philippe was my king ; I would have no
other. Then came the Revolution ; the land

ran with blood ; and the stream washed
away my property. They were too many for
us ; they rushed upon us like a whirlwind ;
the Organisms fled, and I with them. It is
matter of history. But think me not a
coward. I ran because I could do no good
stopping there : what could one man do
against ten thousand ? See, I was brave ! "

M. Dubarri paused in his narrative, to take
off his coat, which he tossed upon the table.
As he then began to unbutton his waistcoat,
it looked as if he were about to strip entirely,
but he drew the line at his shirt. He opened
it, however, and showed a couple of nasty scars.

They are honourable wounds in front,"
he went on, " and when I received them, I
thought I had better take my cone. But
one lancer fellow suffered before I went. He
rode at me to spike me like a boar. I
objected — I was not brought up to such
treatment ; so I divided him at the waist, and
his horse rode away with the lower half of
him sitting bolt upright in the saddle.
Sapristi ! it was a mighty stroke."

'' Beats the sheep trick hollow," commented
Arnold.

"The cheap trick?" asked M. Dubarri,
indignantly.

I have seen a guardsman bisect a sheep."

"That may be. But I speak only the
truth, I do assure you. Well, I ran for
England, and here I have lived ever since. I
made a little money now and again, by teaching
in schools, doing a little business in
jewelry, taking pupils, and several other
things ; and then — mais non, I can tell you
no more." He clenched his fist and banged
it on the table.

And the slip of paper I just found,"
suggested Arnold.

"Oh! ah! the paper," said M. Dubarri.
'' It is nothing, my friend, nothing at all.
You see, I am frank."

CHAPTER Iii.

A PROPOSAL.

Why, where lias my photograph gone ? "
exclaimed Nellie, gazing in perplexity at a
blank space in her album.

She and her friend, Mrs. Sterne, were
chatting together in the Rectory drawing-room,
a fine handsome room with a division
in the centre showing that it had been enlarged.
The window looked out upon the
well-trimmed lawn with its gravel sweep and
thick fence of laurels and holly, while a glass
door opened into a delightful little conservatory,
which was Nellie's especial charge.
The silk curtains were of a dead-yellow colour,
and the furniture was black and gold. There
was a low and luxurious couch on each side

of the fireplace, and another immediately in
front. It was here that the two ladies were
sitting.

Indeed, it's a very strange thing," said
Nellie, tapping her album. " The photograph
was there only a week ago, for I saw it
myself."

One of your lovers must have taken it,"
suggested Mrs. Sterne, with a smile. " Silver-spoon,
Plantagenet, Merridale ; but I should
have to go through all the pupils before I got
to the end of them."

Please, don't call them lovers, Mrs.
Sterne. They pretend to be fond of me in
order to stand high in my father's estimation."

Not all, Nellie, surely. Isn't there
one

No," declared Nellie, dropping suddenly
over her book. " Not one of them has been
in the room since last week, so where can
the photograph have gone ? "

The irrepressible cat again, I suppose.
By the way, you have never given me one ;
and I should like one of the Doctor."

He never will be photographed. He says
he hates it, and yet you know the curiously-framed
oil-painting of him in the study.
Well, if he didn't mind sitting to an artist
for hours and hours, what objection could he
have to putting himself in front of a camera
for half a minute ? "

Perhaps he dislikes those rack-like
supports."

I don't think so," replied Nellie, thoughtfully,
" for he goes cheerfully to the dentist."

Mrs. Sterne laughed. Still, she felt that
the Doctor was certainly a very odd man,
whose assumption of candour seemed to cover
some mystery. Why should he object to be
photographed ? Why should he refuse to
have his name inserted in the Clerical
Directory ? She put these questions to her
husband, and he replied that it was, no doubt,
.a mere whim.

Though the disappearance of a photograph
from an album is a trivial and by no means
infrequent circumstance, Nellie could not help
regarding it with apprehension. She was.

at all times, rather inclined to take a desponding
view of things, and this tendency was
naturally increased by the Doctor's lengthy
absence in search of her missing brother. He
had already been away a week, and no
message had come from him except a telegram
requesting her to send the carriage to meet
him at Stilbury this afternoon. No one, she
felt, would have dared to steal her photograph
if only Arnold had been near. Of
course there was the Doctor, but then his
thoughts were concentrated upon his pupils.
The very moment they showed the slightest
signs of being overworked, he detected it and
sent them off for a holiday ; whereas if his
own daughter had been deadly pale, he would
scarcely have noticed the change. Tt was
mere habit, and not any want of affection,
but it forced upon this motherless girl a
strong sense of isolation.

The Doctor was certainly not free from the
dogmatism which is so often associated with
tuition, and this bad prevented any real companionship
between him and his children.

The had lived under the same roof, but each
had always gone his or her own way. When
a confidant was needed, they had to seek an
outsider. But this reticence, by compelling
her to draw inferences from appearances, had
sharpened Nellie's faculties, and she had been
one of the first to perceive Mr. Valentine
Gaunt's influence over her father. It caused
her the utmost perplexity and a vague alarm
for the future. She cordially detested this
stealthy tutor — a feeling only increased by
his evident admiration for herself. That he
would some day propose to her, she was
confident ; indeed, she had already rehearsed
several little scenes, in each of which she had
dismissed him with scorn. But what if her
father should insist upon her marrying him ?
It was this that she dreaded, knowing full
well that the Doctor would have no difficulty
in persuading himself that he was acting for
her good, though, in reality, sacrificing her
for the sake of his establishment.

Perhaps Nellie could not readily have told
why a missing photograph should have raised

these thoughts in her mind, but they doubtless
had some connection. And then a deep
blush suddenly overspread her pretty face.
After all, suppose

Mr. Strathclyde has called to see you,
Miss Nellie," announced a white-headed manservant.


Me, Higgins ? "

Yes, miss."

Oh ! " said Nellie, staring hard at the
grate. " He must mean my father. Did you
say that he had not yet returned ? "

■^' Yes, miss," replied Higgins, with a grin ;
and he said, ' All the better.' "

After a brief pause, Nellie exclaimed
warmly, " How can you say such a thing,
Higgins! Mr. Stratchclyde must have misunderstood
you ; but as you are so stupid,
perhaps — well, perhaps you had better show
him in."

As soon as the door was closed, she made
a wild rush for the mirror. But when Philip
entered, she was sitting very demurely on
the couch.

Philip had a slender, active figure ; his
complexion was very fair, and his features
were as delicately chiselled as a girl's. The
lights and shadows flashing across his handsome
face spoke of a frank, impulsive,
generous disposition. He was one of the
Doctor's favourite pupils, and a great friend
of Leonard Sterne's.

He walked swiftly across the room, and
Nellie rose to meet him. A pretty contrast
they made as they stood for a moment hand-in-hand,
this handsome fair-complexioned lad
and this little dark-haired maiden with the
wondering blue eyes and sweet pensive face,
which looked all the more charming for a
pink flush.

Nellie was trembling a little as she said,
You didn't tell Higgins that "

Oh yes, I did," interrupted Philip. " I
waited until Mrs. Sterne had gone, for I
wanted to see you alone. Nellie, my darling,
I do love you. Do you love me — just a little ?
Darling, say you do."

He held her hand in both of his and she

did not withdraw it. Though she neither
spoke nor dared to turn her face towards
him, there was a bright happy light in her
blue eyes.

Nellie, do you love me ? " he pleaded.

Yes, Philip," she whispered.

He took her in his arms and kissed her.

I hope I am not disturbing you," said
Mr. Yalentine Gaunt, poking his head in at
the door.

The young people bounded apart like
india rubber balls. Nellie hung her head,
bute Philip stared indignantly at the intruder.

I have come," said Mr. Valentine Gaunt,
with a look of surprise, " to see whether the
Doctor has returned."

"• No, he has not," replied Philip, shortly.

This remark the other coolly ignored. He
turned to Nellie and said, " Has not your
father arrived yet ? "

No."

He ought to be here in a few minutes."

Yes, unless he missed the train."

*' Then," said Mr. Yalentine Gaunt, hovering

around a seat on one of the couches, " I
suppose I had better wait for him." He
glanced at each of his companions in turn,
and smiled.

Philip stole a look of blank dismay at
Nellie, and caught her looking in blank
dismay at him. It was absolutely necessary,
they both felt, that they should have a little
private talk together before the Doctor's
arrival, and yet how was it to be managed
with that odious creature stuck on the
couch opposite ? Had he seen them ? How
were they to act ? Were they to anticipate
anything he might do ? or, were they to
wait until they knew what it was to be ?
Each was burning to learn the other's
opinion.

The position was embarrassing enough for
Philip, but it was far more so for Nellie.
Now that she had time to reflect, she reproached
herself for her heartlessness in
accepting her own happiness while still in
suspense about her brother. She had been
in such great trouble about him that Philip's

words had induced a momentary reaction,
only to plunge her back in trouble again.
However, the present evil is, if not the worst,
at least the most pressing ; and Nellie determined
to make an attempt to get rid of it,
appeasing her conscience with the reflection
that the Doctor's return was a proof of
Arnold's safety.

'' I think," she said in a listening attitude,
I hear the sound of wheels. I'll just run
into the conservatory to see."

Perhaps I can help you," added Philip,
rising to his feet.

Mr. Valentine Gaunt's face was not a
pleasant sight, as he watched them vanishing
through the glass doors. The little conspiracy
against the common foe, as well as
the necessity for haste, helped to put the two
young people at their ease. They spoke
with much less constraint than they otherwise
would have done.

Oh ! Philip, do you think he saw ? "
asked Nellie, blushing.

If he did, Nellie, what then ? "

But, indeed, you don't know what harm
he can do."

Remember, Nellie," said Philip, proudly,
you have me to protect you now. And the
very instant the Doctor returns, I'll go to
him."

No! oh no! you must not do that. Philip,
you really, really must be patient. Think of
poor Arnold ! We must hear all about him
first, and I feel very selfish to have allowed
you to say a word to me to-day. Oh, Philip,
do you think he is safe ? " She found it a
little difficult to balance a possible trouble
against her present happiness.

But, NelHe, you would not have me kept
in suspense, surely."

Oh, of course not," she replied, with a
mischievous smile. " And now, tell me one
thing : did you steal a photograph from my
album ? "

A photograph ? "

'' Yes, sir, speak the truth."

No, indeed I did not."

Then somebody has."

Philip looked becomingly indignant. That
everybody should long to possess Nellie's
photograph, he could thoroughly understand ;
but that some thief should have coolly appropriated
it, was enough to rouse his anger.
He was on the point of expressing himself
very forcibly when Nellie laid her finger on
her lips and glanced at the doorway.

If," said Mr. Yalentine Gaunt, advancing
towards them, " my eyes and ears can be of
any service to you, you are welcome to the
use of them. They are usually considered
pretty sharp, and perhaps they may be able
to tell whether the Doctor is near."

Thank you, Mr. Gaunt," said Nellie.

She stopped suddenly and began to tremble,
her quick ear having detected a sound in the
hall. The next moment there was a hasty
footstep in the drawing-room, and the Doctor
himself stood before them.

He had alighted from his carriage at the
same spot where Silverspoon and Co. saw
him get in, and had preceded it on foot. His
suspicious nature delighted in these little

surprises. It is doubtful whether he implicitly
trusted even Leonard Sterne.

When he saw the group in the conservatory,
his face clouded, but only for a moment. They
were all struck by his appearance. His hair
and beard seemed to have grown whiter, and
the lines to have deepened in his forehead,
yet his manner was unusually jaunty.

Nellie glided swiftly towards him and
clasped his hands.

Well, father," she faltered, " what of
Arnold ? "

Oh, he is all right. Bless the boy, what
a lot of trouble he has given me ! Do you
wish to see me, Mr. Graunt ? Yery well.
Philip, you pass the post-office — will you
post this letter for me ? I promised to send
Arnold a line on my arrival."

Mr. Yalentine Gaunt glanced at the address
as he passed the letter on to Philip. He saw
that it was directed to " Arnold Copingstone,
Esq., Christchurch, Oxford."

The Doctor led the way into the study,
and Mr. Valentine Graunt followed him.

VOL. I. I

CHAPTER YIIL

THE RIVAL TUTORS.

Tex minutes after the letter to Arnold had
been posted, his arrival at Oxford was being
discussed by nearly everybody in the village.
As a disseminator of useful information,
Joseph Haply, the worthy postmaster, certainly
deserved great credit for promptitude.
There was naturally a good deal of curiosity
on the subject, Mr. Valentine Gaunt's theory
being the one that gained the most general
acceptance, but nothing was known beyond
the fact itself.

Leonard Sterne, who heard the news from
Philip, at once rushed up to the Rectory,
where the Doctor and Mr. Yalentine Gaunt
were already sitting in conclave. A slight
shadow of vexation crossed Sterne's face ; it

seemed fated that he should drop into second
place. His anxiety to control his feelings
made him hesitate for a moment in the doorway.


Oh, pray don't mind me, Mr. Sterne,"
said Mr. Valentine Gaunt, with a sardonic
grin. " We have finished our conversation."

If Leonard could have had his dearest wish
gratified, it would have been that he and this
insolent fellow could have been transported
back into 'Varsity days and set up one against
the other with the gloves. No doubt a most
clerical wish, but the provocation was
great. He could not trust himself to reply ;
so he sat down and began to talk to the
Doctor about Arnold.

After some little discussion, they proceeded
to matters connected with the pupils.

What report ? " asked the Doctor, with
a sly twinkle in his eyes.

Bad — very bad," replied Sterne, gloomily.
'' There was a riot almost before you were
out of the place."

The Doctor tried to look solemn. " Dear

me, dear me," he said, shaking his head ;
it's always the same, always the same. You
men don't appear to be able to manage them.
I can't think how it is."

Mr. Sterne was speaking for himself,"
put in Mr. Valentine Gaunt, " so I must ask
you. Dr. Copingstone, not to include me."

The Doctor looked inquiringly from one to
the other.

The Hive was perfectly quiet," continued
Mr. Yalentine Gaunt. " All my pupils have
been hard at work. Their appreciation of
my method has made it a complete success."

This was decidedly a facer for Sterne, who,
during the Doctor's absence, was supposed
to be responsible for the good conduct of all
the rest.

Mr. Gaunt did not return from London
until one o'clock on the following day," he
said, " so I can't see how he can speak so
positively of what went on in his absence."

In accordance with the Doctor's wishes,
I set my pupils a certain amount of work ;
when I returned at one o'clock, the time

stated so accurately by Mr. Sterne, that work
was done. I contend, then, that I was
justified in saying what I did."

plantagenet and Silverspoon were among
the ringleaders," said Sterne, dryly.

Possibly ; but in the morning they work
with Mr. Jostler."

And in the afternoon ? "

With me. And I have an excellent report
to give of their work." He knew quite well
that this was sufficient to satisfy the Doctor.

Still, the latter had to appease his trusty
lieutenant. " I'll make an example of somebody,"
he cried, banging his fist on the
writing-table, " as sure as I am the Rector of
this parish. Be good enough to ring the bell,
Sterne. We'll have Plantagenet and Silver-spoon
up at once. If we don't strike a blow
soon, these young rascals will be getting too
many for us. Higgins," added he to the
man-servant, " send Lord Ernest Plantagenet
and Yiscount Silverspoon to me."

When the culprits arrived, the Doctor
talked to them for about ten minutes in his

jocular way, and then appealed to Sterne
whether they should not be let off this time.
He really was a niost aggravating man. Mr.
Valentine Gaunt smiled with the keenest
satisfaction at seeing his rival impaled upon
the horns of a dilemma.

But Sterne, while anxious to do his duty,
had no intention of having the Doctor's
responsibilities coolly foisted upon him. He
said merely —

The facts have been laid before you, Dr.
Copingstone. It is for you to take what
action you think best."

Well, I think we'll let them go. But,
remember, never again, Plantagenet ; never
again, Silverspoon. The next time I'll pack
you off home as sure as I'm sitting here."

'' Thank you. Dr. Copingstone," said they,
and laughed their way out of the Eectory.

Ah! " said the Doctor, smiling at his
tutors through his glasses, " I have frightened
the young rascals out of their wits."

Exit Sterne in disgust.

*then," said Mr. Yalentine Gaunt,

thoughtfully stroking this mutton-clio
whiskers, " Heavisides will never do anything
in English, and as he wishes to have a
try at Greek, had not you better remove him
to Mr. Sterne's classes ? He is a capital
fellow to work, very steady, rather dull,
perhaps, but I have no doubt he will do Mr.
Sterne credit."

"Yery well, I don't suppose it matters
much whom he works with. He'll never
pass an examination as long as he lives —
never."

He would pass if he were examined in
the points of a fox-terrier or a meerschaum
pipe or a banjo, but in nothing else." He
then went on to mention a number of others
whom he wished transferred to Sterne's
classes in exchange for pupils of more ability.

But what will Sterne say ? " demanded
the Doctor.

'^ We must consult the interests of the
pupils, and not of the tutors. That 1 conceive
to be our guiding principle."

True ; the very thing Sterne is always

saying himself." He accordingly made the
necessary alterations.

When Sterne heard how his classes had
been mutilated without his having a voice in
the matter, he was naturally very indignant.
His few clever pupils had been taken from
him, and their places filled with hopeless
dullards. He knew from past experience
that unless a tutor could get high marks for
his pupils, he was pretty sure to be sent about
his business ; and, though it was unlikely that
he would be treated in this abrupt way, he
would certainly sink in the Doctor's estimation.
The whole thing was so obviously
arranged solely for Mr. Valentine Gaunt's
benefit, and yet it was almost impossible to
protest against it.

Leonard Sterne would not as yet allow
that there was any rivalry between him and
this other tutor who was filching away his
pupils and supplanting him in the Doctor's
favour, but there could be no doubt that it
was being rapidly forced upon him. It was
difficult enough, as it was, to do his duty

amid so many opposing elements ; it would
be almost impossible in a hand-to-hand
struggle for existence, and it was in this
direction that matters were drifting.

Mr. Yalentine Graunt's next words would
appear to have had this very end in view.
He was continually testing his influence over
the Doctor as if he himself was not quite
certain of its extent. He did so now in a
way strongly suggestive of his cat-like walk.

I have a bad account to give of Naggle,
Dr. Copingstone," he said, watching the
Doctor closely.

I am sorry for that — very sorry. Your
report has been so uniformly good that
Naggle must be very bad indeed."

First of all, he is an utter blockhead."

But he pays. His father would pay anything
to keep him at such a place as this."

'' His remaining here will lead to the
demoralization of all work. Not a thing can
be done when he is present ; the lectures are
disturbed, and a general riot always ensues,
to the utter destruction of all method."

This was true enou^^Ii in the main. Naggle,
the son of a wealthy tallow merchant, was
out of his depth among the young aristocrats
of Puddleton. He was generally unpopular,
and had an irritating habit of getting pelted
with books during Mr. Yalentine Graunt's
lectures. Of course a pupil who did this sort
of thing deserved a very severe punishment.

Send Naggle to me, Mr. Gaunt," said the
Doctor, taking up his pen. " I'll tell him
that unless he turns over a new leaf, we shall
have to try to get on without him."

Dr. Copingstone," said Mr. Yalentine
Gaunt, still keenly watching from beneath
his heavy brows, and speaking with emphatic
deliberation, " Naggle must go ! "

The pen fell from the Doctor's hand. After
a swift look of troubled surprise, he said,
"Why?"

Because — I — wish — it." While uttering
this sentence he was ready at any moment to
change its whole meaning, and only added
the last word after observing from the Doctor's
expression that it would be safe to do so.

Of course, if I have it upon your authority
that haggle's presence is subversive of discipline,
he must go."

I have already said so, Dr. Copingstone."

Then," said the Doctor after a slight
pause, " be good enough to put your opinion
in writing."

Though he always took care to bind everybody
else down by a written agreement, he
himself fought very shy of anything of the sort.
It is uncommonly awkward at times to be
confronted with your own words in black and
white.

Mr. Yalentine Gaunt hesitated.

Why ? " he asked at length.

I shall have to give Mr. Naggle a reason
for the dismissal of his son. You surely
can't object to his seeing your opinion."

Oh dear, no."

He drew a sheet of paper towards him and
wrote his statement upon it. Without
troubling to read it, the Doctor folded it up
and put it in one of the drawers of his
writing-table.

One point more," said the methodical
Professor, rising to his feet. " I suppose you
don't wish to lose all your pupils."

The Doctor gave a very perceptible start.

I don't," he said firmly. " There is no

fear of that, unless " He stopped and

looked meaningly at the other.

Unless your daughter were to marry one
of the pupils."

Which she never shall do."

Then let me advise you to keep a stricter
watch upon her and Philip Strathclyde."

Mr. Valentine Gaunt appeared very well
pleased with himself as he walked through
the village. Sometimes, it is true, a puzzled
look came into his face, but, on the whole, his
expression was one of profound satisfaction.
His shoulders were drawn square, his bearing
was more erect, he glanced with a certain air
of proprietorship at the cottages right and
left where some of the pupils lodged. There
were many of these youths lounging about,
with cigars in their mouths and fox-terriers
at their heels, and they all had a pleasant

word to say to Mr. Valentine Gaunt. He
answered them as usual in his jovial, familiar
way, and yet, somehow or other, there was a
difference in his tones.

The Professor," said Merridale afterwards,
spoke as if he had gone up a peg."

They were keen observers, these doggy
young gentlemen. Not one of them but
knew of the rivalry between the two tutors
and, in Sterne's case, exaggerated it.

Naturally enough, as soon as Naggle heard
what had befallen him through the agency
of the one, he went to the other and implored
his intercession. It was just the case to
enlist Sterne's sympathies. Feeling that an
act of gross injustice had been committed, he
determined to oppose it.

What is this about Naggle, Dr. Coping-stone
? " he asked on entering the study.

I have made up my mind to get rid of
him," replied the Doctor, taking all the
responsibility upon his own shoulders. To
have done anything else would have been to
confess a lamentable want of authority, for

he fancied that he had cunningly hidden Mr.
Valentine Gaunt's power from outsiders.
We must make an example of somebody,"
he went on ; " you yourself admitted as much ;
and Naggle is really a downright scamp."

'' But he is the most inoffensive fellow in
the whole place. Why, he couldn't say
Boo ! ' to a goose, unless it were to attack
him first."

I have Graunt's written statement that he
is an incorrigible offender."

May I see it ? "

Certainly."

The Doctor produced the paper and handed
it to Sterne.

Well," said the latter, after he had read
it, 'all I can say is this — it is utterly opposed
to my experience. Naggle is a foolish
fellow — a donkey, in fact — but harmless. In
my classes he is perfectly quiet ; and if Mr.
Gaunt can't maintain order, it is his method
that should be blamed."

He could not resist the temptation of
throwing this pebble.

It's no use — no use. I have made up my
mind."

Then," said Sterne, with a flash of anger,
*' it is most unfair ! "

Hold there, Mr. Sterne ! " cried the Doctor,
darting out his hand. " None but you would
dare to speak to me in that way." His tone
suddenly changed to one of utter weariness.
You had better leave me before I say
what I should afterwards be sorry for. I'm
worried, Sterne, worried to death. Leave me
alone for a while."

Sterne felt that the Doctor had aged greatly
during the last few days. He could not help
pitying him, and yet he was both vexed and
dismayed at the turn affairs were taking. It
was no longer possible to deny that when he
and the new-comer were opposed to one
another, he must go to the wall. Mr. Valentine
Gaunt's power was as strange as it
was incontestable ; Leonard Sterne could not
understand it at all. He reproached himself,
too, for having lost his temper at a time
when he had most needed it ; instead of improving

matters, he lead only made them
worse. It was a miserable prospect that lay
before him. Had it not been for his wife, he
could almost have resolved to leave Middleton.
And then that weary piteous look in the
Doctor's face — what was the meaning of it ?
Both were so obstinate that things had never
run very smoothly between him and his son ;
could there be any disagreement now ? He
spoke very shortly about Arnold, dismissed
the subject with a few words, and then
turned to something else. Doubtless they
had had a serious quarrel over Arnold's freak.
In the end, perhaps, Leonard Sterne pitied
the Doctor almost as much as himself.

As weeks went by, Joseph Haply made
the singular discovery that while the Doctor
wrote regularly to his son, the latter never
replied — at least, in his own handwriting
From time to time several letters, some of
them weighty, arrived from Oxford, but in
no case were they directed by Arnold. This
struck the worthy postmaster as a curious
circumstance which ought to be threshed out,

SO he and his friends hammered at it nightly
in the bar-parlour of the Mark's-Nest.

It was also noticed that the Doctor went
away more frequently than he used to do,
and that on his return he invariably wore a
jaded look, hard though he tried to conceal it.

On one of these occasions he was met by
Hebe Pike. She was a vivacious young lady,
rather short in stature, with a cheerful rosy
face, dark golden hair, sharp brown eyes,
and a mischievous mouth. " The rustic
beauty," was the title given her by the
pupils ; but there was a briskness about Miss
Hebe's manner that hinted at her turning out
what is called a managing woman.

When do you expect Arnold back. Dr.
Copingstone ? " she asked, without any
preface.

^' Oh, soon — soon, I hope."

*' But," said she, remembering the near
approach of Christmas, '' I thought the term
ended before this."

Ah yes ; but Arnold is an uncommonly
slow fellow, always behind everybody else.

VOL. I. K

Good afternoon, Miss Pike. Remember me
kindly to your whither and mother." And
he went off at the breakneck speed which he
always adopted to show what a busy man he
was.

Now, Hebe had been expecting to hear
from Arnold for many weeks, but no letter
had arrived. Though greatly distressed at his
apparent desertion, she was much too proud
to show it. In the whole course of her life,
nothing more perplexing had occurred to her
than his continued silence, and the Doctor's
abrupt manner only added to the mystery.
Should she write to Arnold ? Surely it would
not be maidenly to ask him for an explanation
of his conduct when they were actually
engaged ? At any rate, he had not returned
the gold pencil-case she had given him, and
she was still wearing his ring.

While she was thinking over the matter,
she overtook Mr. Yalentine Gaunt, walking
along the street with dignified importance.
A sudden thought flashed into her mind. He
was the Doctor's right-hand man, and might

be able to give her some information. Relying
upon the secrecy of her engagement, she
put the question to him point-blank.

He pulled a big meerschaum pipe out of his
mouth and stared at her curiously. He had
not considered the matter worth his notice
before, but her words had set him thinking.
Suppose, after all, there was something wrong
with Arnold, would not this give him another
powerful lever against the Doctor ?

I imagine," he said, " he is still at Oxford,
but I am going to make inquiries. Shall I
let you know the result, Miss Hebe ? "

Oh dear, no," she replied. " But it is a
little past the end of the term, isn't it ? "

Perhaps so," he said, smiling at her question,
which gave a direct denial to her careless
tones. " I never thought of that."

The same evening two letters were posted
to Arnold Copingstone, Esq., Christchurch,
Oxford.

CHAPTER IX.

THE doctor's dilemma.

One morning about a week later, some business
in connection with the tradesmen's
accounts took Leonard Sterne to the Rectory.
He found the study deserted, but, knowing
the Doctor's regular habits, resolved to wait.
In order to pass the time, he strolled about
looking at the pictures.

One in particular arrested his attention —
an oil painting of the Doctor which had
evidently been done many years ago. Of
course, Sterne had often noticed it before,
but he had never had such a good opportunity
of examining the frame, which was peculiar.
It was very broad, very old-fashioned, and of
remarkable depth, standing not quite six

inches from the wall and making the other
pictures appear very flat by comparison.
Looking at it sideways, Sterne observed a
crack all the way round the centre of the
edge.

Hullo ! " he exclaimed suddenly. " What
is the meaning of this ? "

He had turned it round, and was astonished
to find another picture behind. Both frames
were precisely the same shape and size, and,
being glued back to back, fitted so exactly
that it was almost impossible to detect the
joining.

The painting turned to the wall was
apparently a likeness of the Doctor when a
young man. It was easy to trace the
resemblance in the features, though the expression
was very different, being bold and
almost reckless. In his imagination Sterne
tried to paint in a white tie and a blue coat,
but the effect was scarcely satisfactory.

Ha ! " said the Doctor, entering the room,
you have found me out at last."

Sterne coloured slightly, feeling almost as

if he had been caught in an underhand act.
But the Doctor's look speedily reassured him.

Is this your portrait ? " be asked.

No, Sterne, certainly not. That's the old
Adam. The rascal is dead and buried years
ago. I have hung him there out of a sneaking
regard for his memory, and turned his
face to the wall out of respect for my present
self. I was a sad dog in those days — a sad
dog — a sad dog." He repeated the expression
with evident delight, and bis twinkling eyes
broke into a smile as he added, " But it
wouldn't do to let everybody know it."

Perhaps so," said Sterne, with a quiet
smile, as if he too was looking back across
the years at some youthful] escapade. " But
it is not everybody who can kill and bury the
old Adam."

There you are right. He is as tenacious
of life as an eel. But I have managed it.
There he hangs. Turn his face to the wall,
Sterne — gently — gently — so. Let us leave
him in peace."

It was a very suggestive incident. Sterne

knew too much about the Doctor to be easily
deceived by his light manner, it was so often
used to hide something lying beneath. Had
he got hold of a clue to Mr. Valentine
Gaunt's influence ? It was not impossible
that the two had met in the past, and that
the one was in possession of a secret which
the other feared might injure his reputation.
No doubt merely some boyish prank, if the
truth were known.

Here Higgins entered with a huge pile of
letters on a salver.

The Doctor's manner changed instantly.
He dropped into the chair at the writing-table,
put on his glasses, and seized the
letters with trembling eagerness, which was
rendered only the more conspicuous by his
attempt to disguise it. As he turned them
over, his face gradually assumed a look of
bitter disappointment. He could wear the
mask no longer. With an irrepressible sigh,
he selected a large envelope from the heap
and carried it to the window where he could
examine it unobserved. It contained three

letters addressed to Arnold at Oxford, one
from Mr. Valentine Gaunt, another from
Hebe Pike, and the third merely a blank
sheet of paper enclosed in an envelope directed
by the Doctor himself.

Oh, what a foolish old man he was, with
his vaunted cunning which did so much to
neutralize his better nature ! Instead of
taking the bull by the horns, he was always
trying to dodge it, and felt a real delight in
doing so successfully. Fearing lest a breath
of scandal should scatter his pupils to the
four winds, he was continually plumping
down some carefully devised fraud to cover
the deficiency, with the not infrequent result
of finding himself in a worse difficulty. How
he would have trembled had he known that
Arnold was at that very moment living with
one of Mr. Valentine Gaunt's friends !

He clung to the hope that he might yet
find his son and induce him to return to
Oxford before his absence became known,
but, on this point, he could not bring himself
to deceive Nellie. This strange man stopped

short at imposing upon his daughter's feelings ;
he could not carry his conjuring tricks so far
as this, though he did bind her to secrecy,
and for his sake she was obliged to consent.

If he was fonder of Nellie now that she
alone was left to him, the knowledge that
she possessed his secret also made him a little
afraid of her. In fact, she stood upon a
higher moral platform than he did, though
he was careful not to put the matter with
such disagreeable bluntness even to himself
It was for this reason that be had not followed
up Mr. Valentine Gaunt's hint, and the
necessity for immediate action had been
averted by Nellie's prevailing upon Philip
not to say a word about their engagement
for the present.

But events were in the saddle and were
pressing the Doctor hard. Mr. Valentine
Gaunt and Hebe were in pursuit of Arnold,
the capture of their letters giving the Doctor
a keen enjoyment even at such a time as
this ; Leonard Sterne, having got an inkling
that something was wrong, was preparing to

take a more active part ; and Philip was
urging Nellie to let him speak to her father
at once — or, at least to tell him her reason
for remaining silent. Such being the case, it
would require all the Doctor's skill to ward
off disaster.

While he was reading his letters, congratulating
himself that Hebe at any rate
was not the cause of Arnold's disappearance,
Nellie and Philip were in the meadow beyond
the Eectory garden.

They were standing near a clump of alders
on the sedgy bank of the mill-dam, through
which passed a loop-canal from the Splash-water.
In front towered Camel back, curving
gradually upwards in grassy slopes on which
were dotted white patches of sheep ; and on
the left stood the old mill, with its cumbrous
wooden wheel and high-peaked roof and
lattice windows. A number of ducks were
padding about the pond, and in a quiet
corner among the reeds a grey old water-rat
was busily engaged in washing his face, for
it was a bright sunny day.

What a toilet the old fellow is making; ! "
observed Philip.

You have not asked me out here to talk
about rats," replied Nellie slyly.

That is true," he said, turning sharply to
lay his hands upon her shoulders and to gaze
wistfully into her blue eyes. "• Nellie, my pet,
how much longer do you wish me to wait ?
I can't bear waiting at any time, and now —
well, it scarcely seems fair to your father."

Nellie looked at him in troubled perplexity.
She was not allowed to tell him about
Arnold, so how could she make him understand
that the delay was as much for her
father's sake as for her own ? She would
not have plighted her troth had she not
taken Arnold's safety for granted, and now
reproached herself for her impatience to
make sure of her own happiness. It will
be observed that in Nellie's wish to keep
silent that good might come of it, there was
a slight touch of the Doctor.

Philip," she said tremulously, " do you
really, ideally mind waiting — for me ? "

"Mind waiting! You know I don't,
Nellie. But then there is your father to be
considered."

But suppose he would prefer to wait ? "

Ought we to suppose that, Nellie ? My
darling, I do so long to call you my very
own. So let me go at once ! I'm quite sure
it will be the best way in the end."

Nellie wavered. " Not to-day," she pleaded.

Then tomorrow," he cried, his eves
flashing with a happy light. " I'll see your
father the first thing."

Oh, Philip, please wait till next week.
If you only knew all, you really would."

He looked at her with a sudden pang of
doubt. " It's nothing about the missing
photograph ? " he said.

Indeed no." With a quick movement
she disengaged herself from his grasp and
stood nearer the alders. " There is Dr.
Fogge," she said, " going to the Eectory to
visit Martha. Oh, Philip, do you think he
noticed us ? "

"Not he," declared Philip, anxious to

reassure her. " He is as blincb as a bat.
But " — he was unwilling to lose such an
excellent chance — " you see now how disagreeable
our position is, don't you, Nellie ? "

Dr. Fogge, however, was not as blind as
Philip thought. Moreover, he was a regular
old woman, ready to gossip with the first
person he met. This happened to be Tattle-maine,
one of the dullest of the pupils, who
was thoughtfully drilling a hole with his
stick through the wall near the Doctor's
house.

Have you noticed," said Dr. Fogge,
whether Philip Strathclyde and Nellie
Copingstone have been a good deal together
lately?"

No," replied Tattlemaine, with a vacant
stare.

Then you have not heard anything about
an engagement ? "

'' Not a word. Is it true ? "

Dr. Fogge laughed.

By Jove ! " cried Tattlemaine, and bolted
off to discuss this matter.

At the butcher's shop, close to the bridge
over the Splashwater, he paused a moment.

Heard the latest ? " he inquired of Gammon,
who happened to be standing at his
door.

Queen Victoria ascended the throne, Mr.
Tattlemaine ? " said the butcher, with a loud
guffaw at his own incomparable wit.

Dry up. Gammon," was the blunt retort.
Mr. Strathclyde is going to be married to
Miss Copingstone."

Without another word. Gammon whipped
off his apron and went away up the street as
fast as his fat legs would carry him. " I
know a thug or two," he muttered ; and todo
him justice, he certainly did, one of them
being to cut the honest chop that ever came
out of a butcher's shop. He acted as one
of the Doctor's scouts, and it was in this
capacity that he presented himself at the
Rectory and related what he had just heard.

The Doctor was furiously indignant. He
first summoned Tattlemaine and ordered him
to contradict the report ; then he sent for

Nellie. Though he would gladly have procrastinated,
he was forced to act at last.

Nellie," he said severely, " what is this I
hear of you and Philip Strathclyde ? "

Of me and Philip Strathclyde ! "

She stood there blushing in very pretty
confusion. If only she had allowed Philip
to speak ! Perhaps he had spoken.

Yes," said the Doctor, frowning at her ;
is there anything between you two ? "

No, Philip had clearly not spoken. Then
it must be that wretch Dr. Fogge. Unable
to defend herself, Nellie fell back upon that
maidenly resource, flippancy.

Anything between us, father ? About
fifty yards at present."

She flung her arms about his neck and
began to kiss him vehemently.

There, there ! " he said, drawing himself
away from the pouting lips ; " be good enough
to tell me how you can be so precise about
Strathclyde's present distance from here."

She coloured with vexation. " He is at
the Hut," she said.

Oh, he is — is he ? I have a good mind
to have him over here to explain this
matter. Has he been talking any nonsense
to you ? "

'' Philip doesn't talk nonsense," replied
Nellie, with laughable dignity, and quite
forgetful of the need for caution.

It has come to Philip, has it ? Well, this
is a nice business ! Let me tell you this,
Nellie : though all the peers and peeresses in
the kingdom were to plead in his favour, I
would never consent to your marriage with
PhiHp Strathclyde."

The words were so unexpected that Nellie
almost staggered back, her poor little mouth
quivering piteously and her eyes filling with
tears.

Why are you so bitter against him ? "
she faltered.

Bitter against him ! There is not a nicer,
more gentlemanly young fellow in the whole
place. But think of my position, dear !
Suppose you were to marry a pupil, away
would go all the others like a frightened flock

of sheep. It would be ruin —-utter ruin.
Don't you see that, dear ? "

No, father, I don't."

^' Come and kiss me, then. There ! Now
remember that what I have said is solely for
your benefit. It distresses me to have to

oppose your wishes and Good-bye,

darling."

Nellie hastily disappeared, while the Doctor
took off his glasses and began to wipe them.

As Nellie had said, Philip was at that
moment at the Hut. Thinking it prudent to
secure his friend's alliance, he had obtained
her permission to take Leonard Sterne into
their confidence. The latter was smoking*
and writing, when Philip entered the study
and took a seat in the bow-window.

I have some news that will surprise you,"
announced Philip, lighting a cigarette.

"Nothing would surprise me in Puddle*
ton."

This will."

I doubt it," said Sterne, with a smile.

'' Guess, then."

VOL. J. L

You are engaged to Nellie."

Good gracious ! " cried Philip in amazement.
" How did you find out ? Who told
sou ? Somebody must have done."

How do you like the view from the
window, Philip ? "

Oh, bother the view I "

*' But do just turn your head ! Camelback
looks beautiful in this light, and that clump
of alders "

Philip gave an awkward little laugh. " I
believe you sit in the window all day long
wil.h an opera-glass," he said ; " but it didn't
come off then, for all that."

Lucy told me to be prepared for it some
weeks ago. Women have wonderfully keen
sight for anything of the sort. Well, Philip,
I congratulate you with my whole heart.
You are an uncommonly lucky fellow. If I
had my chance over again, I don't know that
I wouldn't "

Do what, sir ? " demanded his wife,
tapping him playfully on the shoulder.

Enter the lists against Philip."

If you say much, I'll run away with the
Doctor."

You couldn't do me a greater service,
Mrs. Sterne," laughed Philip, '' for he is
horribly in my way at present. I have yet

to learn his opinion, and Oh, by-the-by,

some scoundrel has stolen one of Nellie's
photographs."

Do you know whom I suspect ? " inquired
Mrs. Sterne. "Mr. Valentine Gaunt."

Lucy ! " said her husband, holding up his
finger reproachfully.

He shuddered nevertheless, for his wife's
words opened up a prospect of dreadful possibilities.
Was not it likely that Mr. Valentine
Gaunt would use his influence to bring-about
a marriage with Nellie, and that the
Doctor might yield on the score of expediency
? Sterne would have thought it still
more likely had he known that Arnold had
made it almost impossible for him to assume
the head of his father's establishment. He
was always ready to admit that his wife had
a keener perception than himself, and now

that he came to reflect, he remembered many
little things tending to confirm her opinion.
While he deeply regretted that circumstances
should be always bringing him into conflict
with Mr. Yalentine Graunt, he would not on
that account shrink from what he conceived
to be his duty. He felt that he should use
every means in his power to frustrate any
plot aiming at the sacrifice of Nellie's happiness.
It was certainly not a question of
rivalry now, he told himself; it was simply
and solely a question of right and wrong.
Perhaps the fact that he considered it necessary
to argue the point at all, may throw a
little doubt upon his conclusion.

Remember, Philip," he said, " I cannot
compel the Doctor's sanction, and I should
not advise Nellie to marry you without it ;
but as you tell me that you are both really
in love with one another, I shall do my best
to help you. What you have to do now is
to state your case to the Doctor, plainly,
straightforwardly, and fearlessly. Don't be
afraid of him ; be firm. I know him better

than you do. You must show bim that you
mean business."

Here was more trouble in store for the
unfortunate Doctor. It was coming, too,
from a quarter from which he least expected it.

The next day Leonard Sterue set about
fulfilling his share in the undertaking. It
was absolutely necessary, he felt, to investigate
Mr. Valentine Gaunt's antecedents.
With this purpose in view, he went to
London in order to interview the educational
agent.

Curiously enough, Mr. Valentine Gaunt
went by the same train to pay a visit to
M. Dubarri. For the sake of appearances,
the two tutors travelled in the same compartment,
though they might almost as well have
been apart for all they said to one another.

CHAPTER X.

FOUND.

Notwithstanding the gloom of Momus Street,
there was sufficient dissimilarity between the
tastes and dispositions of the inmates of
No. 13 to prevent the monotony from .
M. Dubarri was quick, restless,
noisy, and at times even boisterous;
Arnold was slow, dilatory, and imperturbable.
M. Dubarri had no objection to dust, and
regarded cobwebs as suitable appendages to
a ceiling, in which opinion he was confirmed
by an ancient housekeeper and a pale-faced
servant-girl ; Arnold preferred to look upon
these things through the medium of an intervening:
window. M. Dubarri loved onions
and revelled in garlic ; Arnold simply loathed

them. In short, the two had not a single
point in common. It was only when they
sat down after dinner, to a bottle of inordinate,
which M. Dubarri always handled
as tenderly and proudly as if it had been of
the choicest vintage, that there was anything
like rest in the house. At such times he
smoked cigarettes with the same fierceness
that he did everything else.

Besides a certain ability in teaching elocution,
he displayed singular dexterity in drawing
the long bow, the shots that he made
being often so wide of the truth as to cause
even Arnold to open his eyes in amazement.
He knew, he said, every theatrical manager
in London. It subsequently turned out that
he had a nodding acquaintance with one
music-hall proprietor. He was hand-in-glove
with all the leading actors ; yet, somehow
or other, they never recognized him in the
street. He had the whole of the daily press
at his back, but the daily press afterwards
resolved itself into two compositors, who sofar
resembled one another that they both had

red noses and a decided preference for pewter
to type metal. When such little discrepancies
began to crop np, Arnold felt that accuracy
was not the Professor's strong point, but he
was too easy-going to permit an occasional
slip of the tongue to interfere between them.

In one way M. Dubarri certainly proved
a very efficient tutor. He was as pertinacious
as a gadfly, stinging his phlegmatic pupil
into ceaseless activity, and making him do
his utmost out of sheer desperation. Arnold
was obliged to be up and doing, reading,
reciting, studying continually, while the
Professor suited the action to the word by
dashing about the room. The latter also was
a valuable ally in getting a large number of
orders for the theatres, so that Arnold was
enabled to study better models without any
drain on his purse.

As soon as he showed tolerable proficiency,
he was sent to search for an engagement, and
from that time added to his other occupations
the arduous work of manager-baiting. He
waylaid them at the theatres ; called upon

them at their private houses ; hunted them
down at their clubs ; talked, argued, badgered ;
but all to no purpose. They would have
none of him. " No room," was the invariable
and disheartening answer.

Cheer up, my young friend ! " said M.
Dubarri one December morning. '' You have
been aiming at the sparrows and have hit
nothing. Bah ! they are very small game.
Let them go ; they are not worth your powder
and shot. The eagle, is he not bigger ? Is
he not easier to hit ? You shall bag him,
my friend ; at least, you shall try. That will
suit your book, I think."

Arnold assented with a nod of the head.
Though he failed to comprehend the Professor's
metaphor, he had already learnt that
a question usually wound the Professor up
afresh.

You know to whom I allude ? " he went
on, blinking through his pince-nez. ^' No !
To Mr. Footlight, the great actor, the lessee
of the Parnassus. He is your man for sure.
You shall go to him at once. Away with

you, my friend ! Sapristi ! he engages my
pupil as soon as lie claps eyes on him."

But a glow-worm among the stars ! "
remonstrated Arnold.

You are talking rubbish, my friend, if
you will excuse me for being frank. How is
he to show off his great lights ? Why " —
with the forefinger of each hand he traced
little circles in the air — '' by having little
ones to twinkle, twinkle, twinkle alongside,
of course. Do you not see it, you with the
grand passion ? When an artist wishes to
show the height of a building, what does he
do ? Sets down a dot for a man. JSh Men I
You are the dot. Come, I shake you by the
hand, and you go."

Thereupon M. Dubarri affectionately embraced
his pupil, escorted him to the door,
and pushed him out of the house. For sometime
he stood on the doorstep, kissing his
hand to the great tall fellow, who walked
slowly on without once looking back.

Arnold had scarcely turned out of Momus
Street when there came along a hansom containing

a single occupant. In spite of the
top hat, the cigar, and the lordly air of
indolence, it was easy to recognize in the
heavy overhanging forehead, shaggy brows,
high cheek-bones, and grey mutton-chop
whiskers, the sinister face of Mr. Valentine
Gaunt.

How little thought the unfortunate man,
scheming and plotting in Puddleton, of the
perils he was running in London ! At this
very moment he was elaborating a little plan
for making Mr. Valentine Gaunt believe that
Arnold was still at Oxford, and here were
the two within a few feet of one another in
London !

However, neither saw the other, so the
danger was averted for the time. Mr.
Valentine Gaunt went on his way to visit
M. Dubarri, and Arnold to interview Mr.
Footlight, whom he was fortunate enough to
meet at the entrance to the theatre.

The lessee of the Parnassus was a stout,
ruddy-faced, smooth-shaven man, with a droll
expression, and a habit of clipping his sentences

as if he were pressed for time. He
wore a large overcoat with an Astrachan collar
and cuffs.

"Wish to see me on business, Mr. Crossings
? " he said. '' Hope it's not a bill."

I am anxious to go on the stage."

Shan't prevent you, but can't help you."

This was discouraging. But following
M. Dubarri's advice, Arnold persevered with :
Perhaps if I gave you a Shakesperian
recitation, you might think better of it."
Unconsciously he fell into one of his tutor's
attitudes, ready to commence.

Mr. Footlight looked at him with a critical
smile. '' We like," he said, " our dishes
served up au naturel. Act as much as you
like in private life, but not on the stage."

Shall I go ahead ? " said Arnold.

Thanks. Don't care much about it.
Fond of Shakespeare; rather old, perhaps.
Heard him before, at any rate."

"Mr. Footlight, will you answer me one
question ? Where is a beginner to begin ? "

On anybody's boards but mine. Lease

the Parnassus myself, and can't afford to let
you practise on my customers. Try a paid
manager. Better still, go and practise on
the provincials. If you succeed, London
manager, having a look round during his
holiday, may take a fancy to you."

So I am to wait till then, am I ? Good
morning, Mr. Footlight."

Though he spoke in his usual drawling
tones, his face clouded for a moment ; but he
showed no stronger sign of disappointment
than this. A butcher's boy charged against
him in the street and bounded off again, but
Arnold's serenity was quite undisturbed by
the collision. He walked steadily on with an
impassive demeanour that would have done
credit to an Indian chief

Almost exactly opposite M. Dubarri's door,
a couple of young urchins were engaged ina
fight ; at least, they were flinging strong
language at one another from behind their
clenched fists, then making a wild dash
during which heads, legs, and arms got
strangely mingled, and then separating to

fling strong language again, while their companions
conducted a sort of war-dance around
them. Arnold stopped to see what was
going on. While he was still watching, a
door opened and closed behind him. A
powerful round-shouldered figure stood on
the step, with one foot hovering in the air.

Arnold, you here ? "

He turned round and found himself face to
face with Mr. Valentine Gaunt, who, having
satisfactorily tested his opinion, now brought
his foot to the ground.

What have you been doing in my
house ? " inquired Arnold.

Your house ! "

You didn't come to see me, then ? "

"Do you live here ? "

Certainly."

Mr. Yalentine Gaunt made a movement
with his hand, and the two walked on to the
end of the street. So far his expression
denoted little surprise. He was too methodical
to accept a new thing all of a sudden, and
then it had to be fitted in with his plans.

*' How long have you been living there ? "
he asked when they stopped.

Since I left Puddleton, almost."

Mr. Valentine Gaunt turned away his head
to conceal the smile of malicious triumph. So
the Doctor had been flaunting a lie in the
face of his parishioners ! This was indeed a
pleasant bit of news. When he had regained
control over his features, he asked with grave
and watchful interest —

Are you living with my friend M.
Dubarri ? "

Yes," replied Arnold, returning the
other s curious look ; " but I didn't know
until now that he was your friend."

Mr. Yalentine Graunt passed this by, his
object being to get and not give information.
How did you become acquainted with
him ? " he inquired.

I trod on his foot, so he gave me his
hand. Rather an odd way of commencing
business, wasn't it ? We have been the best
of friends ever since."

Ah ! now I begin to understand. You

are Mr. Cressingliam when you are at home :
which, by the way, is not often, for I have
been several times at the house without seeing
you."

'^ I have been busy," said Arnold, grimly.
I have followed your advice, and am now
a rising actor."

The deuce you are ! " exclaimed Mr.
"Valentine Gaunt, breaking into a gruff laugh.
He was so delighted that he really couldn't
help it. 'i'm uncommonly glad to hear it."

'^ I have not got my head above the footlights
yet, but M. Dubarri assures me that I
am undoubtedly rising. The talent, sir, is
all here " — he tapped his forehead in imitation
of the Histrionic Professor — '* waiting, like
champagne, to bubble out as soon as some one
gives it a chance."

*' But tell me, bar chaff, Arnold, have you
obtained an engagement and performed in
public ? "

I have just been charming our leading
comedian. He thought so highly of my performance,
that he advised me to go on tour

in the provinces. Cockneys, he said, can't
recognize ability in an actor, until he has
received a few lessons from his country
cousins."

Mr. Valentine Gaunt looked rather disappointed.
" You will stick at it, of course,"
he said in his slow grating tones. " A few
failures at the outset are inevitable."

I can't turn back now even if I would."
Right, Arnold, quite right. Keep steadily
on. Success must reward your persistence
eventually. To him who perseveres the time
comes."

Unless he die of starvation meanwhile."
Ah ! " said Mr. Valentine Gaunt, with a
quick look of intelligence. " I know you
will excuse the question from a friend, but
how is the money market ? "

Thanks, I am in funds at present."
You know, Arnold, I am not a wealthy
man, but if you should be hard up, I shall
always be glad to make a push to help you.
Of course, I thoroughly understand that you
can't go to the Doctor — at least, until you can

VOL. I. M

go as a successful man ; I enter into your
feelings there. T think you are wise, but
you must not on that account get into difficulties.
When you want money, come to meas
your friend ; I'll be your banker as far as
my limited means will permit."

It's very kind of you "

Not a word of thanks, I beg," said Mr.
Valentine Gaunt, with a lofty wave of the
hand. " You wouldn't like anybody in
Puddleton to know that I have met you ? "

Certainly not."

You forbid me to mention it ? "
"'' Well, yes, as you put it that way, I do'
replied Arnold, smiling at this cautious
question.

There is nothing like method," explained
Mr. Valentine Graunt. " I like to have
everything carefully arranged beforehand ; it
is the only way to avoid difficulties and disappointments.
One point more. Should you
happen to mention my name to M. Dubarri —
and perhaps it would be better not to do so —
don't tell him how you come to know me.

Say nothing about Puddleton, in fact, unless
you wish to see the Doctor in Momus Street.
Between ourselves, Arnold " — he laid his
hand confidentially on Arnold's shoulder —
between ourselves, M. Dubarri is a very
good fellow, but he is not altogether to be
trusted. As a friend, I think it only right
to set you on your guard. The fewer secrets
you give him to keep, the better. And now
good-bye, Arnold. I have only just time to
catch my train."

He shook hands with the young man,
hailed a passing hansom, and drove off to
the station.

He vas already well known at Stilbury ;
and when the train stopped there, two porters
rushed at the compartment, seized his belonging,
and escorted him to the dogcart which
had been sent to meet him by Mr. Smirk,
proprietor of the Mark's-Nest. He tried hard
to look as if this ceremonious treatment was a
mere matter of course — something that he
had been accustomed to all his life ; but the
fact that, in spite of a remarkably stingy disposition,

he gave the men a shilling apiece,
speaks for itself.

John, the rough-coated driver, was equally
obsequious, continually insisting that the rug
Alas not wrapped round Mr. Yalentine Graunt's
legs, and chattering through all the latest
gossip, while the dogcart rattled along the
rugged twisting road ; now passing by the
side of a swirling brook, now diving into an
avenue of leafless trees, which met and parted
overhead as the wind whistled among their
branches, and now laboriously climbing a
hill whence the surrounding country, as far
as Camelback, could be seen lying cold and
stiff beneath the touch of approaching winter.
At the entrance to the village, the dogcart
overtook Hebe Pike. The wind had loosed
a lock of her golden hair, and the brisk pace
at which she was walking had given a ruddy
tint to her cheeks, and a brighter sparkle to
her eyes. Mr. Valentine Gaunt felt that the
pupils were right in calling her " the rustic
beauty."

But her appearance put also another

thought into his head. Strange that circumstances
should be so suggestive. It seemed
as if he originated nothing, but merely acted
upon the suggestions that they made to him.
At this time he was inclined to think himself
the favoured child of fortune, though he subsequently
took a different view of the matter.

He stopped the dogcart and alighted.

Miss Pike," he began, in his watchful
way, " as a mutual friend, perhaps I may be
allowed to say that I know" — disconcerted
by her sharp look, he substituted — "well,
more than guess your engagement to
Arnold's

Hebe's face turned a deep crimson, and her
eyes instinctively sought the little gold circlet
on her finger. She hastily withdrew it from
sight. He caught the look and the movement,
and smiled. Certain of his ground
now, this human cat took his next step.

'' What business is it of mine, you may
ask ? Arnold told me of it himself."

Oh ! " she cried, as if from a sudden
spasm of pain. After a pause, she added;

scarcely above a whisper, " Then you have
seen him ? ''

I am bound to secrecy, but if you can
keep a secret — — "

Mr. Graunt," said Hebe, proudly, her whole
manner, except the tightly clasped hands,
strangely at variance with her previous
agitation, " Arnold Copingstone is nothing
to me. I must ask you not to mention his name
to me again."

He glanced at the ring. It enabled him to
recover speedily from the shock which her
Vv^oj:ds gave him.

'' But suppose I have a message for you ? "

Then please give it me."

I should blush if I were to tell it you," he
laughed, and let us hope that he spoke the
truth. " No, no. Miss Hebe ; you must wait
until he can give messages of that sort in
person."

'' But why has he not written ? " asked
Hebe, sharply.

Because he doesn't want the whole village
to know where he is. Joseph Haply knows

this handwriting, so he doesn't write by post.
He would have written to you to-day, only I
was in too great a hurry to catch the train.
But when 1 am next in London, I shall bring
a letter from him, and, if you wish, take
one."

Hebe was trembling now. He could see
that, though she was standing with her back
towards him.

You have not told me what he is doing,"
she said.

Studying for the stage. He has an excellent
tutor, whose method I can thoroughly
recommend, and great things are confidently
expected of him. Before long we shall hear
of him wealthy and famous."

He said a good deal more in the same strain
before he left her at her garden-gate. There
was a smile upon her bright face as she
stood looking after him, and her rosy lips
moved as if to bless the kind friend who had
given her the best news she had received for
many a long day.

He went on his way to the Hive, where he

got rid of his uncomfortable top hat, and
exchanged his frock coat for a light jacket.
Then he stuck in his mouth a large meerschaum,
a monkey grinning horribly at the
torments it was enduring, and, with one
hand in his pocket, and a stout cudgel in the
other, sallied out to have a crack at the
Doctor, whose counter-plot was by this time
complete. In spite of his importance, there
was much of the Bohemian in Mr. Yalentine
Gaunt.

CHAPTER XI.

GREEK MEETS GREEK.

Heavisides, the steady-going, had a pleasant
way of making himself thoroughly at home
wherever he might happen to be. He had
not long migrated from the Hut to the Hive,
when, he took to ordering his favourite
delicacies for dinner — an arrangement to
which Mr. Yalentine Gaunt did not venture
to object, lest he should lose his hardly won
popularity. This is one of the thorns in the
side of the prosperous Professor. Though
he could bully the Doctor, he was, in turn,
rather bullied by those whom he considered
his subordinates.

Heavisides closely resembled, in figure, a
Dutch cheese set on the top of a barrel. His

expression was that of stolid contentment.
Though very wealthy, he usually dressed
something like a gamekeeper — velveteen
jacket, brilliant fancy waistcoat, and corduroy
trousers. There was always a pipe in his
mouth ; indeed, some said that he went to
sleep smoking. This may or may not have
been true, but it is quite certain that every
morning he played the banjo in his bath. To
see him sitting in his circular tub, with a
placid smile on his broad good-humoured face,
as he strummed out some plaintive nigger
melody, was a sight for the gods.

Considering the solidity of his person and
his sedentary habits, he was curiously fond of
research, when, of course, it did not involve
much trouble, and he carried on his investigations
with a creditable thoroughness. Mr.
Valentine Gaunt's private sitting-room was,
in reality, open to all comers, and no sooner
did he leave the Hive than Heavisides, provided
he had nothing more exciting on hand,
started on a voyage of discovery.

On . the morning of Mr. Valentine Graunt's

meeting with Arnold, Heavisides came across
a remarkable "find."

The Professor had given his class some
French translation to do, and they were
doing it, each after his own fashion. Tattle-maine
was thoughtfully launching a knife at
a knot in the woodwork of the door ; Plantagenet
and Silverspoon, seated cross-legged
upon the table, were playing " nap ; " Metrical
and some one else were in the midst of
a battle of books ; Philip, anxious as he was
to pass his examination, finding it utterly
impossible to write, was talking to his neighbour;,
and Heavisides, pipe in mouth, was
industriously exploring the contents of a cupboard
in a corner near the window.

Suddenly a rumbling sound, ending in a
loud guffaw, caused every one to look in the
direction whence.it proceeded. A general
shriek of laughter followed. Heavisides had
discovered an old-fashioned court wig, and
had put it on, his face beaming from it like a
full moon from the centre of a halo. " Work "
was instantly suspended ; every one gathered

round to inspect this mirth-moving phenomenon.
They stood in a grinning circle
around him ; turned him this way and that ;
made him walk to and fro ; and, lastly,
rushed at him, tore off his wig, and commenced
what they called "bally-raging." The
wig was sent flying from hand to hand, and
as it alighted by the side of Philip, he noticed
the maker's name and address — D. Farnienti,
26, Parnassus Street, London — printed upon
a strip of silk which was stitched inside.
There were some who wondered what Mr.
Valentine Gaunt wanted with such extraordinary
head-gear. Heavisides, who never
went very far for his reasons, suggested that
the Professor was as bald as a coot, but the
suggestion was not received with very general
favour.

While the riot was still at its height, a
well-known footstep was heard outside the
door. It was louder than usual, and repeated
so often as almost to sound like a signal. At
any rate, every one scuttled to his place
with singular agility, even Heavisides showing

a manner of getting over the ground as
nimble as it was laughable when viewed from
behind. When the silence was broken only
by the scratching of a dozen pens, the door
opened, and the Doctor's head appeared. He
looked at each in turn, and smiled very
pleasantly. There was not another soul in
the place, not even Leonard Sterne, who
could manage these young fellows with such
charming simplicity.

All as quiet as mice, I see," he said,
beaming upon them.

They looked up with surprise that any one
should have entered the room while they
were so absorbed in their tasks.

'' Aren't we good little boys, Dr. Coping-stone
? " exclaimed Plantagenet, an exceedingly
tall thin youth with a comical face.

You are indeed. Keep at it ! Work —
work — work ; there is nothing like work. It
will soon rid me of you all. A capital place
for work is Puddleton."

But," said Heavisides, smiling broadly,
too much of it makes Jack a dull boy."

I don't tliliik it will be likely to hurt yon,
my friend," returned the Doctor, with his
peculiar gasping laugh, in which they were
prudent enough to join. " But, Philip, are
you sure you are not overdoing it ? You
don't look very well, my boy. Don't you
think a holiday would do you good ? "

Oh, I'm all right, Dr. Copingstone,"
replied Philip, shortly. He was conscious of
agitation in the Doctor's presence, yet he
could not help wondering how Nellie's pale
face had so long escaped detection.

Well, Philip," said the Doctor, " don't
overdo it ; that's all. You wouldn't like to
be knocked up when the time comes for your
examination. Remember, I'll keep my eye
upon you ; and the moment you show the
least sign of distress, away you go for a
holidays whether you will or not."

Doctor," observed Heavisides, gravely,
I noticed an unnatural paleness about my
face when I was shaving this morning.
Don't you think "

But, amid a roar of laughter, the Doctor

slammed the door and rushed out of the
Hive.

As soon as he found himself alone, the
jaded look that had haunted his solitude so
frequently of late, came back to his face, and
he sighed wearily as if he had been undergoing
some severe exertion. No doubt it was
a relief to be able to give free rein to his
feelings, brief as the time was, for he was
continually meeting some of his parishioners
with whom he had to smile or sympathize.

He was scarcely sorry when a quaint old
dame in a white cap told him of her
daughter's illness ; but the gloomy manner
that he instantly assumed with any effort,
was no more wholly selfish than the kindness
in his tones was wholly professional. The
old woman's tale aroused in him the compassion
that springs from fellow-feeling, and
he surprised her with a gift of half a
sovereign. But, as if ashamed of his weakness
and afraid of its being taken as a precedent,
he cautioned her not to say a word
about it ; and then, as usual in such cases.

sent her to the Rectory cook to get some
soup and jelly which had been recommended
by Dr. Fogge.

He was glad that he did not meet anybody
else after he had left her, for he felt a strange
fulness of heart which would have rendered
speech difficult. Still, when the effect of this
incident had passed off, he was clearly ina
better humour than he had been for a longtime,
and this was, perhaps, due to the
absence of that man of method, Mr. Yalentine
Gaunt.

Two of the pretentious cobs were standing
at the Rectory door, Nellie already mounted
on one of them, and the coachman holding
the other. She looked exceedingly pretty in
her riding-habit, which showed her lithe
supple figure to perfection, and the little hat
coquettishly perched on her shapely head
gave a charming finish to the sweet face and
wondering blue eyes, and pouting lips below.

The Doctor wore, of course, his high
sloping hat, which made him look something
like a respectable brigand. He wore also a

long black overcoat and a pair of Wellington
boots, without which he never went outriding.
Nellie playfully rated him for having
kept her waiting so long, and he gave back
some laughing reply. When he had swung
himself into the saddle, it was strange how
much younger he looked. Sitting as firm asa
rock, he seemed to have left all his troubles
on the ground beneath him. Riding was his
delight ; indeed, it was currently reported
that he had more than once slipped away to
have a quiet run with the Stilbury Harriers,
and the rumour had probably more foundation
than many another about him.

It was a pleasant sight to see the father
and daughter riding side by side along that
street of old-fashioned, straggling houses, the
leafless creepers now plainly showing the
grey bricks and lattice-windows. Here was
a smock-frocked labourer, leaning on his hoe,
in his little garden ; there, a rustic mother,
standing in her doorway with a baby in her
arms, and a little chubby-checked girl peeping
shyly from behind her gown ; and scattered

VOL. I. N

about were groups of the pupils, some
smoking and talking, some comparing the
merits of their respective fox-terriers, and
others listening to Gammon's latest yarn, in
which respect the red-faced butcher displayed
considerable ingenuity.

Every one of them had a hearty welcome
for the couple on horseback. Nellie had
made herself greatly beloved by her father's
parishioners ; and he, though not so active
for their welfare, was so agreeable that he
was a universal favourite. They took off
their hats, or curtsied, with smiling faces,
and he went slowly by, Smiling and bowing
his acknowledgments. This ceremonious
little parade was nearly an everyday occurrence.
He delighted in it at all times, but
expressions of good-will were never more
dear to him than now, when he was in some
danger of losing them for ever. He stopped
to speak to a poor old cripple, who was bent
almost double, and could only look up by
twisting his head round like a blackbird ; he
always made a point of doing something of

the sort when a young nobleman happened to
be near, thus proving to the world his utter
disregard for rank. In fact, the Doctor's
motives were often so mingled that it was
very difficult to disentangle them.

There can be no doubt, however, that the
pupils had good reason for calling him " a
jolly old fellow." For when he arrived
opposite the Mark's-Nest, who should come
sauntering out bit the steady-going Heaves
smiling sweetly, as at some pleasant
recollection, and wiping his mouth with an
enormous silk handkerchief. He seemed
rather taken aback at being caught in the
act, and, not quite knowing what to do, gazed
thoughtfully at the sky. But the Doctor
merely looked the other way, and, with a
humorous twinkle in his keen grey eyes,
rode on.

A regular old brick, I'm hanged if he
ain't," declared Heavisides afterwards. " I'd
do anything for that man. To think of

me " But here he rumbled off into that

alarming laughter of his.

It was nearly two hours later when the
Doctor and Nellie came cantering back.
Their coachman happened to be standing on
the bridge ; so the Doctor, having some business
to transact, alighted and sent his cob
home with Nellie. He set to work with
characteristic haste, rushing from house to
house as if every second were worth a mint
of money, and, in order to heighten this
impression upon the minds of others, seldom
putting more than his head inside a door.
The attitude was intended to say : '' You see
what a busy man I am ; I positively can't
give you more than a moment or so.'^ This
made the colloquially inclined compress what
they had to say into the smallest possible
compass, while it enabled the Doctor to
make tracks " if their words should be at
all objectionable.

It was about this time that Mr. Valentine
Gaunt, with the grinning monkey in his
mouth, left the Hive, in order to try his
newly-acquired weapon upon the Doctor.
He strolled along in a leisurely way, stopping

to chat with first one person and then another,
for he also knew that power is most serviceable
when accompanied by popularity.

On one side of the bridge stood a small
shop belonging to a certain Whittle, a big,
podgy, smooth-faced, smooth-spoken man,
who sold tobacco and many other things, and
also acted as carrier to Stilbury. As Mr.
Valentine Gaunt approached this shop, he
observed a couple of long black articles protruding
through the doorway. On close inspection,
they turned out to be the Doctor's
Wellington boots. His legs were inside them,
and he himself was leaning forward, supporting
himself by holding the lintel.

Mr. Yalentine Gaunt folded his arms and
smiled.

Have you given up your prejudice against
nicotine, and taken to smoking ? " he asked,
alluding to Whittle's occupation.

The Doctor hastily emerged from the shop,
and turned towards the speaker.

No, Mr. Gaunt, and I never will," he
replied ; adding lightly as he pointed to the

pipe, " Is that off the family tree ? or did
you sit for it ? "

Caught him, but can't give his pedigree."

He looks unhappy, at any rate," said the
Doctor, who seemed anxious to keep the
conversation at this level.

While speaking, he moved slightly away
from the door, and thus brought into view
the interior of the shop. Piled upon the
floor were a number of parcels, the one on
the top being so placed that the address could
be read at a glance by the passer-by. It was
directed to Arnold Copingstone, Esq., Christchurch,
Oxford.

The Doctor stole a sly glance at his companion
in order to ascertain how his stratagem
had succeeded, and was dismayed to find him
grinning as horribly as his monkey. It gave
him such a shock that he involuntarily laid
his hand upon his side, as if he was suffering
from a spasm. But when he looked again,
Mr. Yalentine Gaunt was as grave as a
judge, though still gazing steadily at the
parcel. After all, it must have been a mistake
— a very painful one without doubt.

I see," remarked Mr. Yalentine Gaunt
carelessly, " that you are sending something
to Arnold. How is he getting on at
Oxford ? "

"Capitally — capitally," replied the Doctor,
purposely loud enough for Whittle to hear.
'' Indeed, I am not at all sure that he will
return home this vacation. You see, there
are some fellows who don't work very well
in Puddleton, and Arnold is one of them."

If you were to try my method with
him "

No use ; not a bit of use, I assure you.
It's far better to keep the boy away from
here for a while."

Of course, you know best," said Mr.
Yalentine Gaunt modestly. He was making
stealthy little dabs with his cudgel at a
pebble as he went on : "I hope the goods in
your parcel are not perishable. There are so
many delays on the railway, and the delivery
is so uncertain, that they might be spoilt
before Arnold gets them."

No," replied the Doctor, who was now

completely reassured — he was rather in the
habit of over-estimating his own cunning
and under-estimating another's — " No, there
is nothing to harm there ; merely a few shirts
that Huckaback has made from Arnold's old
measurement. Things of that sort are so
absurdly expensive at the University."

This announcement was too much for Mr.
Yalentine Gaunt's gravity, but, by suddenly
averting his face, he still contrived to hide
his secret. Some little time elapsed before
he said, pointing his cudgel at the Rectory —

'' Are you going that way ? "

"^' At once," replied the Doctor, and started
at his sharpest pace.

Mr. Yalentine Gaunt toiled on alongside.

CHAPTER XII.

VICTOR AND VANQUISHED.

Perhaps nothing could better show what a
singular character the Doctor was, than the
fact that he felt a positive delight in giving
his companion the greatest trouble to keep
up with him. It gave him a certain sense
of power, and thus helped in some measure
to counter-balance what he had lost. He
always walked at a very rapid pace, with his
arms bent and swinging, and his long legs
extended like a glove-stretcher, but now he
outdid himself completely. By the side of
this tall, wiry figure, the somewhat unwieldy
Mr. Valentine Gaunt, who was accustomed
to do everything with the utmost deliberation,
was very soon in difficulties, pounding

along the street like a staggering carthorse.


Pupils and rustics stood and grinned as

the couple went racing by, and the laugh
was certainly against Mr. Valentine Gaunt.
Plantagenet offered to lay long odds that the
Doctor was first at the Rectory gate by a
clear dozen yards, but Silverspoon shook his
head, adding that he would not come so well
out of a longer race. " See ! " he said, " he
can't shake him off even at this distance.
Gaunt sticks to him like a leech."

Exhilarated by his brisk spin, the Doctor
paused with one hand on his gate and turned
to say something playful. This was Mr.
Valentine Gaunt's opportunity, though he
was very red in the face, especially about the
cheekbones, and very much out of breath.
He said abruptly, in tones that conveyed a
far deeper meaning than his words —

I'll give you half a crown for those
shirts."

The poor old Doctor clapped his hand to
his side — he suffered from heart disease — and

his hold tightened convulsively upon the
gate. He stared in a bewildered way, but
said not a word. The blow was so sudden
that all his cunning had deserted him.

Come, Dr. Copingstone ! " this human
fiend proceeded, testing each cord before he
bound it around his wretched victim. " They
would about fit me, and they are worthless
to you, you know."

Still not a word.

*' Half a crown may not be a very high
price, but it is better than nothing. Shall
we shake hands on the bargain ?"

The Doctor instinctively drew back a little.

The grey hair, the careworn face, the stony
misery in the eyes that so often brightened
with laughter, and the rigid lips would surely
have moved a heart of stone. But Mr.
Valentine Gaunt had no pity. He went on
in the same bantering tones —

You must, I should think, be glad to get
any price for what is quite valueless to you.
You see, I have learnt to read you like a
book."

You lie, sir," burst out the Doctor, stung
where he was most vulnerable. " You have
seen Arnold." His rigidity had vanished
and he was trembling in every limb.

Mr. Yalentine Gaunt could afford to smile,
and a very odious smile it was. " You have
made two statements," he said, slowly rasping
out the words, " equally devoid of foundation.
Neither is very complimentary to me, but I
can see that you are not quite yourself, so let
us forget what has just passed. Your sight
is keen, I grant, but surely it is a mistake to
suppose that others are totally blind. I am
not, at any rate, as you would have seen for
yourself had you not been intent upon your
own plans. None are so easily deceived as
those who are trying to deceive others, and
in this case you have thrown the dust in your
own eyes. I could scarcely tell you pointblank
that I felt sure Arnold was not at
Oxford. You see, it is rather an awkward
thing to accuse a clergyman of deception.
But in every other way than by speech
I have endeavoured to show you what

I thought. To-day, the sight of that parcel
made me speak out, and your own words
have proved that I was right." He paused,
and then added with a grin : " Am I to have
the shirts. Dr. Copingstone ? "

No, sir. I would sooner see them rotting
in the street."

There was very little more said between
them. Mr. Valentine Gaunt was never ina
hurry. He liked to press one point home
at a time. By proceeding in this methodical
way, he felt pretty confident of attaining his
end eventually. As he sauntered back to
the Hive, it was noticed that he was unusually
affable.

The Doctor leaned over the gate, watching
him until he was out of sight. Then, having
already made up his mind what to do, he did
it, as usual, at once. He walked rapidly
down the village towards Whittle's shop. On
the way he stopped and chatted pleasantly
with Plantagenet and Silverspoon ; he listened
patiently to a miserable tale which Joseph
Haply poured into his ears ; and, overtaking

a couple of fair-haired mites, he walked
between them, with a hand on each little
head, all the while talking to them in a way
that very few men can talk to children. No
one could have told from the Doctor's face or
voice that a dreadful shadow had just been
flung across his life; he had recovered his
composure with a readiness that could come
only from constant practice.

"With a parting pat on the head to the two
children, he entered the shop, completely this
time, for he had no wish to court observation.

Whittle," he said, " I suppose I can trust
you?"

"You have tried me often enough. Dr.
Copingstone. Have I ever failed you ? "

Never, Whittle, never ! You are one of
the steadiest men in the parish, though " —
here the little grey eyes began to twinkle —
I should like you none the less if you were
sometimes to stray into church."

Well, sir," began Whittle with an
awkward laugh.

Oh, there, there ! " said the Doctor,

waving his hand to cut short what threatened
to be a lengthy explanation. " You will bea
more regular attendant in future, I have no
doubt ; we must blame that big family of
yours for your absence."

Why, yes, sir, that's it," replied Whittle.
He had about sixteen children, but most of
them were so much alike that it was difficult
to count them.

** And now I want you to do me a good
turn, if you will. Mr. Graunt will be going
up to London in the course of a few days.
What I want you to do is this : follow him,
note everything he does and every place he
goes to, and take care that you are not seen.
All expenses paid. Whittle, and a handsome
sum in addition. Will you do it ? "

Whittle fondled his podgy chin and winked.
'^ I'm on," he said.

There was a smile sliding about his smooth
face which the Doctor did not altogether like.
He watched him suspiciously for a moment
or two, then said, " Very well," and without
another word darted off.

Although it is slightly anticipating events,
the sequel of this conversation may be stated
here. For that matter, it can easily be
guessed. Whittle, who had some business of
his own to transact in London, was very glad
to have his expenses paid. He met Mr.
Valentine Gaunt at the station and fully
explained the nature of his mission, for which
explanation he was handsomely rewarded. On
his return to Puddleton he told the Doctor
some cock-and-bull story and was handsomely
rewarded again. After this, Mr. Yalentine
Gaunt never went to London without taking
careful precautions against being followed.
The Doctor thus lost his only chance of
finding Arnold, and was in time forced to
believe that his whereabouts was unknown to
anybody in the village. In using a wretched
tool like Whittle, he was only consistent ; but
it was strange that he had not learnt the folly
to give it no stronger name — of such a
proceeding long ago. In the present case,
Mr. Yalentine Gaunt, for obvious reasons,
kept his own secret.

He was in liigb feather after his interview
with the Doctor. The dinner at the Hive
that evening was a regular jollification,
champagne being produced without stint.
Silverspoon, who sat at the bottom of the
table, proposed the Professor's health in a
neat little speech, and it was drunk with
musical honours. The Professor replied in
suitable terms, although not without several
references to his method, which he always
dragged in by the head and shoulders whenever
he got an opening. Cigars were handed
round afterwards. It was at this stage that
Heavisides, his broad face, of course, wearing
a placid smile, was seen to be hovering about
behind their host's chair, gazing intently at
his head of grey hair, which was brushed
across to hide the bare patches as much as
possible. It subsequently turned out that he
had been pursuing his research anent the
wig, his conclusion being that the Professor
was not as bald as a coot, but wore his own
hair.

When the entertainment terminated, which

VOL. I.

it did with singing, the pupils retired to their
own sitting-room, and began to wonder what
it was all about, for they knew that cigars
and champagne meant something. The
general opinion was that " Gaunt had had a
rise in screw," and he certainly looked happy
enough for that.

But next morning his peace of mind was
sorely disturbed by the following letter from
the educational agents who had recommended
him : —

'- Dear Sir,

'' We have just been honoured by
a visit from a solemn sallow-complexioned
parson, with a long face, long brown beard,
and a very deep voice. His object in
calling upon us may surprise you ; it certainly
surprised us, and we have thought
it our duty to acquaint you with it at
once. It was to inquire into your character
and antecedents ; but with such information
as we gave him we fear he will scarcely
be satisfied. Perhaps our brief description

will enable you to identify the gentleman.


*' We are, dear sir,

Yours faithfully,

"Kite and Co."

Furious as Mr. Valentine G-aunt was at
reading this letter, he gave himself plenty of
time to think out his plans. The morning
work went on as usual. He pulled so
vigorously at his big meerschaum that Metrical
ventured to suggest he was burning it ;
and he was rather inclined to be short-tempered
when interrupted. But this was
the only change noticed by his classes, and
they ascribed it to the lingering influence of
champagne.

It was not until after lunch that he marched
up to the Rectory. He found the Doctor
sitting at the writing-table in his study,
showed him the letter, and demanded that
Sterne should be summoned to explain it.
The Doctor was both surprised and distressed.
He was beginning to see that if his plan of

playing one tutor against the other had its
advantages, it also had its disadvantages.
Still, it was a relief to find that this was nota
charge against himself ; his own responsibilities
were quite enough for the present.
He lost not a moment in sending Higgins
with a message to the Hut.

When Leonard Sterne arrived, the letter
was handed to him in silence, and he read it
without comment, the other two watching
him intently. He and his rival stood facing-one
another on opposite sides of the table,
the Doctor sitting between.

I am afraid," said Sterne, smiling as he
laid down the letter, and resting his knuckles
on the table, " that I should not have recognized
myself from Kite and Co's portrait ;
but I did go to see them at the time and for
the purpose they mention."

'' Then," said Mr. Yalentine Gaunt, scowling,
" may I inquire, Mr. Sterne, what my
character and antecedents have to do with

you?

The Doctor has entrusted me with the

selection of most of his tutors. It was he that
finally selected you, I admit, but the letters
you received were from me, as you know."

Well ? "

I feel that a certain responsibility rests
upon my shoulders."

Well ? "

I have nothing to add, Mr. Gaunt,"
replied Sterne quietly.

Oh, indeed ! " said Mr. Valentine Gaunt.
I suppose I have a right to learn your
motive ? "

For the present, I prefer to withhold it."

The reason is obvious."

Perhaps so."

It is not more flattering to your character
than are the acts which it prompted."

Perhaps so," again said Sterne, determined
not to lose his temper as he had done once
before.

Mr. Valentine Gaunt suddenly turned
towards the Doctor, and, at the same moment,
converted his arms into a pair of compasses,
one index pointing to each of his companions.

Doctor Copingstone," lie said passionately,
'what have I done that I am tracked like
some wild beast ? Am I suspected of being
a criminal, taking refuge amid the piety of
Puddleton, and anxious only to corrupt it ?
What are my antecedents to you or to anybody
else ? You saw my testimonials ; you
were pleased to speak of them in highly
complimentary terms ; you selected me to
assist you in the work here from them, and
from them alone. I won't quote them, lest
I should appear to boast ; but I may say that
few men ever gain such praise, and fewer
still deserve it. I don't deserve it, I candidly
admit ; my past life has not been altogether
spotless. Has yours, Doctor Copingstone ?
You shake your head. Has yours, Mr.
Sterne ? Ah well ! perhaps it has ; you have
the crow over the Doctor there. Oh, pray,
don't deny it ; surely you are not ashamed
of your immaculate purity ? Yet it is this
unblemished clergyman who has made it his
Christian duty to pry into my past life, and
to drag to light my defects. Does he carry

your warrant, Doctor Copingstone ? If not,
where you are satisfied — and you have expressed
your complete satisfaction over andover
again — why should he interfere ? Let
me tell him that he is the one element of
discord in this place, which would be happy
and peaceful but for his presence ; and let me
warn you that, if you permit such acts of
malice among your tutors, your pupils will
not be long in leaving a divided house which
every moment threatens to tumble about their
ears."

When he finished speaking, he folded his
arms and smiled contemptuously. It was like
the sun coming out after a thunderstorm.
Two days ago he would not have ventured to
make a speech which rendered it almost impossible
for both himself and Sterne to remain
in the village ; but he felt more secure of his
position now.

The Doctor was bending low over the
table, his hand playing uneasily with a pen.
He cleared his throat as if about to speak,
but hesitated, and finally cast a look of

entreaty at Sterne, who answered his appeal
at once.

I confess," he said, " that my action was
peculiar, but the circumstances were peculiar.
I am perfectly ready to justify my conduct to
you, Doctor Copingstone, but to no one else."

This was awkward for Mr. Valentine
Gaunt, who knew that Sterne was not to be
moved from a position that he had once taken
up. He was very anxious to learn what
Sterne had discovered or suspected ; and yet
there was no way of doing so, except by
leaving the field in the possession of the
enemy, which might result in unforeseen
danger. It will be observed that this man of
method found himself in difficulties when he
had to encounter the unexpected. Eventually,
however, he retired from the room.

I leave my character in your keeping.
Doctor Copingstone," he said, with the air of
one conferring a favour, and then closed the
door.

CHAPTER XIII.

AJS" ALLIANCE.

A SHORT silence followed Mr. Yalentine
Gaunt's departure, the Doctor sitting with
his head resting in his hands. Leonard
Sterne was the first to speak. His expression
and tones were full of sadness, but there was
a quiet resolution in the way in which he
drew himself erect.

After what has just happened," he said,
and the Doctor gave a little start, 'rit is my
duty not to lose a moment in placing my
resignation in your hands. After a happy
association of many years it is no easy matter
for me to leave you and all my friends here,
but I should be wrong to remain where I am
accused of being, and by you tacitly admitted

to be, a source of discord and weakness. You
have been very kind to Lucy and myself "

^* Sterne — Sterne, forgive me," implored
the Doctor, looking up and laying his hand
upon Sterne's. " If you knew all, you v^ould,
my friend — but I can't tell you just yet.
Bear with me a little longer, for Nellie's
sake, if not for mine. I am a weak, lonely,

unhappy old man ; if you also leave me "

But at the thought of the future and his
ruined ambition he broke down entirely.

Sterne was deeply affected. It was the
first time that he had ever seen tears in those
keen grey eyes, and the sight brought tears
to his own. He warmly clasped the Doctor's
hand, and though he did so in silence and
with averted face, the action was far more
eloquent than words would have been.
Henceforth, these two were bound together
by a stronger tie than they had ever been
before.

While under the influence of his feelings,
the Doctor had a powerful impulse to confide
his trouble about Arnold to Sterne ; but, as

usual, he hesitated, partly through his rooted
distrust of others, and partly through fear of
what this conscientious man would say of his
share in the transaction. He felt the need of
sympathy almost as much as of assistance,
and yet, shrinking from the consequences of
his act, let the opportunity slip.

Nor did he make any reference to Sterne's
object in visiting the educational agents. It
was easily guessed, and he considered it
prudent not to ask any questions. He could
then plead ignorance when Mr. Valentine
Gaunt returned to the charge.

^' I suppose," said Sterne presently, " you
have not got Mr. Gaunt's testimonials ? "

''No, I returned them to him."

Or copies ? "

No, he showed me the originals."

Do you think you could get hold of them
and let me see them ? "

Impossible, Sterne ; quite impossible."

Then," said Sterne, clutching at the last
straw, " do you remember the names and addresses
of those who gave them to Mr. Gaunt? "

Throughout this catechism, the Doctor had
displayed much uneasiness ; he now resorted
to his ordinary device for getting rid of a
troublesome person. He seized his pen and
began to write vigorously.

If," he said, " I tried to remember all the
names I see, I should have enough to do.
Sterne, what a shocking time Lord Mayfair
is in settling bis account. Do you think
there is anything wrong there ? "

Sterne felt rather dissatisfied as he walked
back to the Hut. Why would the Doctor
persist in throwing obstacles in his way ?
Were they always to go on playing at cross-purposes
? There seemed no object in this
lamentable want of candour. The more he
reflected the more he was convinced that in
Mr. Valentine Gaunt's testimonials lay the
key to his influence over the Doctor, for it
dated from the very hour in which they were
shown by the one to the other, and had been
growing ever since.

If Sterne was right in his conclusion, the
complete solution of the mystery was to be

found in No. 13, Momus Street, for not only
was Arnold teres but also M. Dubarri, alias
M. Dubois, from whom both these documents
emanated.

Sterne's faith in his friend was very remarkable
when contrasted with the latter's
distrust for him. It was, he felt confident,
merely some youthful prank that Mr. Valentine
Gaunt had got hold of and, by means of
exaggeration and distortion, had made the
terror of the Doctor's life. This is very easy
to do with those who are wedded to a single
ambition ; indeed, they usually do it for
themselves, supposing every accident to be
part of a malicious design against their
happiness, raising up all sorts of horrors, and
not infrequently developing into downright
monomaniacs. Sterne felt that something
of the kind was being set in action by Mr.
Valentine Gaunt against the Doctor ; yet,
eager as he was to frustrate it, he was bound
hand and foot b}^ the very man he wished to
assist.

How does Jupiter look this afternoon ? "

asked Philip Strathclyde, breaking in upon
his meditations. " Smiles or frowns ? "

The two were standing opposite the Hut.

The omens are not very propitious,
Philip, if you are about to learn your fate."

Yes, I have delayed long enough ; but I
have had to engage my aunt and all sorts of
things."

And what does she say ? "

Oh, she is exceedingly angry. Dear me,
she almost frightened me, saying that I
should lose the estate, and be little better
than a pauper. But I think she will come
round in time."

Well, I hope so, my boy," said Sterne
kindly. " We must really try and avoid all
unpleasantness. Do you know, the Doctor is
going out for a ride very shortly ? "

Then I must run," replied Philip.

Sterne stood looking after the manly young
fellow swinging along towards the Rectory.
He had seen a happy confidence in the handsome
smiling face, and the lightness with
which difficulties were brushed aside ; he saw

it still in the easy resolute stride ; yet his
own mind was full of doubts, and he fell to
wondering how it would all end. It struck
him as a singular thing that, while he and
the Doctor had entered into an alliance
against Mr. Valentine Gaunt, he and Philip
had entered into an alliance against the
Doctor — at least, if Nellie's affections should
be tampered with. Doubtless many would
have held aloof from what was directly no
business of theirs, but Leonard Sterne took a
more comprehensive view of his duty towards
his neighbour.

When Philip was shown into the study, the
Doctor looked at him with swift suspicion,
which brought the colour into the lad's face.
His purpose was now plain. The Doctor
resolved to ignore it.

Well, Philip, what can I do for you ? " he
asked, with a pleasant smile.

He never spoke without making one feel
that he did so, not as a mere act of duty or
from idle curiosity, but from genuine interest.
Nellie had the same sympathetic voice and

expression as her father, though it was
entirely absent in Arnold. It was largely to
this cause that the Doctor owed his success asa
tutor as well as his influence over nearly
everybody with whom he came in contact.
Philip, who had come prepared for a fight,
was softened at once.

I hope," the Doctor continued, " your
work is getting on satisfactorily. We must
manage somehow to get you past the blockade
of those wretched examiners, and we shall,
my boy — mark my words, we shall. When
it is all over, don't forget my prophesy. You
are a capital fellow to work, Philip, a capital
fellow; and you deserve to win, which is
more than I can say for many of the others.
But " — his voice sank to a tone of kindly
confidence — '' don't overdo it ; don't spoil
your excellent chance by working too late
at night ; we must send you fit to the post.
Now, Philip, I have been watching you very
carefully, and it seems to me that your face
is a little , just a little, paler than it used to
be. What do you say to a short holiday ? I

think it would do you good, and I could
easily persuade your aunt."

You are very kind, Dr. Copingstone,"
said Philip gratefully, yet with increased
embarrassment, as he stood by the side of the
writing-table ; " but I have come not so
much about my work as about my prospects."

They are even better than your work,"
returned the Doctor, with a humorous twinkle
in his eyes. It was difficult to believe that
this was the man who had looked so utterly
crushed but a short half-hour ago.

I am glad you think so, Dr. Copingstone.
I have, as I dare say you know, two hundred
a year of my own ; and the Government
appointment, which you say I may regard asa
certainty, will bring me in about as much
again to commence with."

But upon your marriage with your
cousin " — he glanced up slyly — " you will
come into all your uncle's property. While
you remain a bachelor, you will no doubt be
able to live upon four hundred a year, but it
won't admit of extravagance or even luxury."

VOL. I. P

Philip pulled a very long face. " Then,"
said he, folding his hands upon his hat,
what do you consider the least a man
should marry upon ? "

Fifteen hundred," promptly replied the
Doctor, who had married as a curate with a
salary of a hundred and fifty. He was merely
following the example of exhibitors who put
fancy prices upon the pets they have no
intention of selling.

Philip wisely withdrew from a competition
so unprofitable. He saw that he had made a
mistake, and commenced afresh with : " Dr.
Copingstone, Nellie and I are exceedingly
fond of one another ; she is far away too
good for me, I know ; but she has promised
to marry me, if you will give your consent."

*' That you can never have, Philip," said
the Doctor, firmly.

But why ? " was all that the startled lad
could say.

Because I have too much regard for you
to allow you to commit an act of disastrous
folly."

Disastrous folly to marry Nellie ! "

Decidedly. And I should be wrong tolet
you throw away your chances of comfort
and therefore of happiness."

But, Dr. Copingstone," stammered Philip,
recovering a little, " my comfort is dependent
upon my happiness, and not my happiness
upon my comfort."

So you think, Philip, so you think.
When you come to years of discretion, my
boy, you will know better."

Anxious to have the matter fairly settled,
the Doctor had spoken and listened with
unusual patience, but while he found a
difficulty in concentrating his thoughts, this
incautious speech was the only sign of his
having been recently worried. It nettled
Philip, who, like most young fellows, was
peculiarly touchy on the subject of his age.
His fair young face was crimson as he
exclaimed —

If you'll only let me. Dr. Copingstone, I
am quite ready to stake my future happiness
upon my present opinion."

But there is Nellie to be considered," said
the Doctor, a little wearily, but still as kindly
as ever. " Eemember, she has been accustomed
to every comfort, and even if she were
willing to forego them for your sake, do you
think it would be right to force such self-denial
upon her ? I know you are too
generous for that, Philip. Besides, she is
but a child ; she can't know her own mind
yet. Suppose either of you should change
your minds after marriage, when trouble had
taught you its bitter lesson, what lifelong
misery would lie before you both ! "

But, dear me ! surely you know your
own daughter better than that. Dr. Coping-stone
? She has never changed towards you,
her father ; why should she change towards
me, her husband ? I know she never would
never, as long as love is love, and not
selfishness ; and I feel I have a right to say
so, for I love her dearly. Oh, but this is a
very dreadful charge to bring against me,
too. Why, I should be the last to do her
harm, and yet "

u ggg^ tiny boy," interrupted the Doctor,
scarcely keeping back a mischievous smile,
you have upset the ink-bottle."

Poor Philip looked very crestfallen. He
gazed ruefully at the mess he had made, and
his powers of speech seemed to have been
suddenly dried up. At last he stammered
out —

I'm dreadfully sorry."
Oh, don't give it another thought. Martha
will soon put it to rights. And now run
along, Philip, for I haven't got a moment to
spare!"

Philip was so confused that he had actually
reached the door before he remembered that
he had not brought his business to any
definite conclusion. But, with his hand on
the knob, he turned and asked —

Is there any other objection, Dr. Coping-stone
? "

Yes ; your aunt's displeasure," replied the
Doctor, not without impatience.
But suppose I can pacify her ? "
Then there is your cousin."

Upon that point Mildred and I are
thoroughly agreed. We shall always be like
brother and sister, but we should never
marry. Surely, Dr. Copiugstone, there is
something else ? "

Yes, there is. Your marriage with Nellie
would ruin me."

This reason bore the same relation to the
others that a woman's postcript does to her
letter.

I really can't see how," said the obstinate
youth.

By driving every pupil out of the place.
But look here, Philip, my good nature has
submitted to quite enough catechizing for
the present. I don't wish to quarrel with
you, but if you are not out of the room
in one minute, I won't be responsible for
what I may say or do. The very idea of
your " But his voice and manner suddenly
changed. " There, there," he said
wearily, " I have been worried, Philip, and
I'm a little bit out of temper in consequence.
Go now, my boy, and my best wishes go

with you ! I odIj regret that this thing can
never be."

Yery sadly Philip left the room. But he
had scarcely closed the door when he was
recalled.

Brief as was the interval that had elapsed,
the Doctor had already pulled himself together.
The curious thing about him was,
that a man with such a powerful will should
have so many weak points in his character.
Sitting erect in his chair, he now looked the
very incarnation of strength, and his glance
was as keen as a hawk's.

When you give me your word," he said,
I know I can rely upon it. Will you
promise me not to hold any communication
with Nellie ? "

'^ No, Dr. Copingstone," replied Philip,
frankly ; " I don't think it would be right
for me to bind myself down in anyway."


Well, Philip," said the Doctor, regarding
the lad with something very like admiration,
"• that is straightforward, at any rate. I don't

mind a fair fight in the open, but I can't bear
underhand tricks." He really meant it, for
he was referring to others. " Now I shall
know how to meet you."

In order to guard against accidents, he
concocted several little stratagems, the chief of
which was very characteristic. It was not,
however, until some weeks after the vacation
that he put it into practice, his feeling of insecurity
having by that time reached a pitch
that rendered it necessary for him to do something
final.

What he did was to interview Mr. Smirk,
proprietor of the Mark's-Nest, and also of the
adjoining livery-stable, the only one in Puddleton.
The interview took place in the bar.
Mr. Smirkee, a ruddy-haired man with a slight
squint, was leaning across the counter, while
the Doctor stood by the door, holding it ajar,
in order partly that he might get out, if
necessary, and partly to warn pupils against
coming in.

Mr. Smirkee," he began in his pleasantness
way, " you remember how strongly I backed

you up when Whittle wanted to start traps
and horses in opposition to yours. Tested
interests, I said, vested interests must not be
disturbed. I did you a good turn then.
You'll recollect that ? "

Yes," assented Mr. Smirkee, squinting
doubtfully.

It had been rumoured that that pluralist,
Whittle, had been prompted to add another
to his many vocations by the Doctor himself,
who had then declared himself in favour of
open competition. It was this that puzzled
Mr. .Smirkee.

Very well," the Doctor went on ; '^ as I
have befriended you in the past, so shall I
always — when I find you carrying out my
instructions and not acting prejudicially to
my interests. Of course, Mr. Smirkee, I could
get traps and horses from Stilbury when they
were required, or it would be easy enough
for me to set up a livery-stable of my own ;
but I have no wish to do that — none whatever.
Eemember, however, I look for implicit
obedience from you in reference to your

dealings with my pupils ; all their bills must
be sent in to me at the moment."

They always are, Dr. Copingstone," said
Mr. Smirkee, who looked both mystified and
frightened.

It will be noticed that the Doctor had a
different style of treatment for everybody,
and each style was well suited to the person
to whom it was applied. He laughed good-humouredly
at Heavisides, talked confidentially
to Philip, flattered Whittle, terrorized
over Mr. Smirkee, and so on. An excellent
judge of character, he formed his opinion and
plans at once, and it was seldom that he went
wrong here.

Yes, yes," he said impatiently ; ''I know
I can trust you. It is to your interest that
we should work together. I have no intention
of interfering with your custom if it
can possibly be avoided ; but, in future, you
are not to let any pupil have a horse or trap
without showing a written order from me or
Mr. Sterne. These orders are to be sent to
the Rectory within half an hour of their

having been given to you. Do you understand
me, Mr. Smirkee ? "

Yes, sir."

*' Then take care that your men do so,
too ! "

CHAPTER Xii.

CRAMS AND CRAMMERS.

When the pupils returned from their Christmas
vacation, they were accompanied by a
large reinforcement, and recruits were continually
dropping in during the earlier part
of the spring. Indeed, it was difficult to
accommodate them all in the village. They
clustered most thickly around the Hive, from
which it may be inferred that the veterans
had spread Mr. Valentine Gaunt's reputation
among their friends at Eton, Harrow, and
the other public schools.

Nevertheless, it had become absolutely
necessary to fill the Hut ; but those who were
sent there, either were unfortunates who had
led solitary lives at school, or else were too

young to have any wills of their own. Still,
Leonard Sterne had been victimized so long
as to have grown accustomed to it, and for
the Doctor's sake, he endured his troubles
without a murmur. It was a hard task to
efface himself lest he should stand in the way
of his rival's advancement, but he did it with
a certain resolute austerity, as if he prided
himself upon drinking his penitential cup to
the very dregs.

No doubt he flattered himself that he had
had some small share in the Doctor's success,
but the whole credit was claimed by Mr.
Valentine Gaunt for himself and his method.
He now wore a lofty air of importance, and
was considerably stouter. His cheek-bones
were less obtrusive, his gold chain more conspicuous,
and his clothes were made by a
fashionable tailor. In fact, though he still
hovered about with the big meerschaum in
his mouth, and in the morning with slippers
on his feet, he presented the appearance of
arran in very comfortable circumstances.

The only change in his attitude towards

the Doctor was that he had become more
familiar, but it was a friendly and almost
patronising familiarity. In public, however,
he behaved with seemly deference, thereby
enabling the Doctor to make a show of the
authority which had almost completely slipped
from him. It was a miserable state of affairs
altogether, and not less so because this fiend
of a man advanced with such cautious slowness.
He often invited himself to dinner at
the Rectory, and did his utmost to make
himself agreeable to Nellie, but here he met
with very indifferent success. However, he
persevered.

The Doctor's income at this time must have
been simply enormous, for besides the increase
in the number of his pupils, he had
thought it a good opportunity to raise his
terms. Instead of checking applications, this
had tended to add to them. He was never
tired of saying how he had been obliged to
decline the sons of Lord This and Lady That.
He had started a book in which a score of
names were already entered three years in

advance ; and lie had engaged, among several
new tutors, one of noble family, who was
consequently a most efficient " coach," and a
great attraction. In short, he did everything
on a lordly scale, except as regards the payment
of his tutors, for their salaries he good-humouredly
screwed down to the lowest level.

When people saw this modern Tower of
Babel rising to a gigantic height, they agreed
that its master-builder must be a happy man.
Alas ! he was very nearly a broken-hearted
man. Was he not building for the stranger
to inherit ? He had worked for a fame that
should endure, yet by the loss of his son it
was limited to the few years that remained
to him. When he was gone, it would pass
to another, and he himself would be forgotten.

Mingled with this trouble, there were some
yearnings for his missing son. Though he
had not shown any great affection for Arnold,
he now felt an increasing affection for
Arnold's memory, and spared no efforts to
find him. He still entertained a desperate
hope of cancelling the past — of putting

matters to rights, as if that past had never
been ; and only this prevented the haggard
look which came to his face occasionally from
being stamped there indelibly.

He had found no difficulty in keeping up
the delusion about Arnold's being at Oxford.
Of course no one dreamed of doubting his
explanation, and Whittle had also unconsciously
helped him by talking about the
shirts. Only Leonard Sterne was beginning
to wonder. That half-confidence in the
study, when the Doctor had spoken of himself
as " 2i lonely old man," had set him
thinking ; but everything was so misty that
he could not see his way at all. He knew
merely that Mr. Valentine Gaunt had obtained
a strange hold over the Doctor, and
concluded that it had some connection with
this testimonials, but he had no idea that it
had been assisted by any subsequent event.
He was very patient and watchful, ever on
the alert to help his friend, and, though the
mystery was still as dark as ever, confident
of solving it eventually.

But, fortunate as the Doctor was in his
friends, he had not attained his present
position without making some enemies, chiefly
on account of a fact which may require explanation
— the depreciation of house property
in and near Puddleton.

The pupils were undoubtedly a noisy lot,
not from any wish to cause annoyance, but
merely because it is the nature of thoughtless
young people to make a noise. For example,
they had organized a band which paraded
the village when things seemed a trifle dull.
Lord Ernest Plantagenet, immensely tall and
thin, marched at the head with a large drum ;
then came Yiscount Silverspoon with a
cornet, Merridale with a fiddle, and many
others, mostly with coach-horns, the rear
being invariably brought up by the short,
broad form of Heavisides, smiling pensively
as he strummed some original air on his
banjo. Of course this was a rare treat to the
rustics, all noise that came from an instrument
being music to their ears, and they
stood open-mouthed at the doors of their

YOL. I. Q

creeper-clad cottages, and grinned with
delight. Had these young noblemen been
disposed to make a collection, honest John
Hodge woTild have contributed loyally.

There were others, however, who looked
at the matter in a different light. They said
that noise was equally objectionable to them
whether it was made by a peer or a costermonger,
and they stoutly declined to live ina
turbulent neighbourhood unless they were
compensated for loss of quietude by a reduction
in their rents. This their landlords
would not agree to ; and though the Doctor,
anxious to retain the goodwill of his neighbours,
had paid away a good deal of money
in one way or another, he drew the line here.

The consequence was that several retired
officers and elderly merchants who had lived
in the village on account of its seclusion and
beautiful scenery, had angrily departed ; and
their example had been followed by two or
three old maids, whose cats had suffered
severely from the fox-terriers belonging to
the pupils. One lady without a cat lingered

after the rest, but at length declaring that
the very bricks and mortar had become impregnated
with tobacco smoke, she also fled
in disgust.

Several of the houses thus vacated were
taken by the new tutors and filled with
pupils ; others belonged to Gammon, Smirkee,
Whittle, and Joseph Haply, who received
compensation in increased custom ; but the
remainder were a dead loss to their owners,
among whom Hebe's father was the greatest
sufferer though not the loudest grumbler.

Being merely a country practitioner, Mr.
Pike was not entrusted with any of the
Doctor's legal business, so that he had some
cause for complaint. Still, he kept his tongue
well under control. There was no knowing
how matters might turn out. When Dr.
Fogge and others of the same class were invited
to the annual dinner at the Rectory,
Mr. Pike was always to be seen there too,
a pompous little man with a bald head, an
inquiring nose, an immense moustache, and
a collar so stiff that one was almost afraid of

speaking to him, lest he should inadvertently
turn his head, and some dreadful accident
occur.

He and the Doctor made a great show of
friendliness ; they were charmingly polite
when they met, each asking after the other's
health with the deepest interest and beaming
with pleasure at getting a satisfactory answer.
They shook hands at parting with a cordiality
that would have done credit to M. Dubarri ;
and yet one could not help feeling that the
thing was a little overdone to be genuine.
They reminded one of a couple of skilful
fencers, each waiting to give the other a dig
in the ribs. And there can be no doubt that,
but for the fact of his having intercepted
Hebe's letter, the Doctor would have come
to believe himself to be the victim of a conspiracy,
and have accused the lawyer of
aiding Arnold in order to bring about his
marriage with Hebe ; but as it was, he felt
easy on that account.

As a matter of fact, however, Mr. Pike
had a strong suspicion that his daughter was

in communication with Arnold, whom he
naturally supposed to be at the University.
It puzzled him a good deal, for no letters
came for her by post ; but he had noticed a
greater briskness in her manner ever since
that day when she met Mr. Valentine Gaunt
returning from London, and at intervals she
had shown a cheerfulness which there was
no other way of accounting for. If only the
Doctor's consent could be obtained, Mr. Pike
would gladly have agreed to a marriage so
advantageous to himself; and thinking it
prudent not to question Hebe, he determined
to watch the course of events. Had it not
been for this circumstance, he would certainly
have made a determined attack upon the
Doctor during the spring, for the many newcomers
had added so greatly to the disturbance
that it was almost intolerable.

However, as May approached, matters
quieted down a little. The examinations
were drawing unpleasantly near, as might be
seen from the positive craving for knowledge
that had suddenly seized upon some, the

uneasy expression worn by others, and the
envious glances cast at those who, like Philip
Strathclyde, had worked steadily on until
they were considered certain of success.
Silverspoon and Plantagenet were putting on
a terrific spurt, dashing about the village
with piles of books under their arms ; if
Merridale's gaiety was still irrepressible
in the daytime, he sat up half the night
with a wet towel round his forehead ; and
even Heavisides had once been observed
smiling pleasantly at the exterior of a Latin
grammar.

There came a cold grey morning when the
excitement rose to fever-height. A large
number of the pupils were gathered on the
bridge, some standing, others sitting on the
wall, and gazing thoughtfully at the Splash-water,
which was dancing merrily down the
rugged side of Camelback to turn and twist
among the green meadows that came lovingly
down to meet it. Some of these young
fellows wore a half-critical air ; they even
indulged in a little chaff' occasionally ; they

smiled as they puffed vigorously at their
pipes, or shouted as they sent their fox-terriers
racing down the street ; in fact, they
behaved in the unfeeling way that young
fellows do when they are not going in for
an examination yet awhile.

Suddenly there was a profound silence, and
all turned in the direction of the Hut, from
which the Doctor, in the brigand hat, was
just issuing. Followed by Leonard Sterne
and Philip, and with a large collection of
papers under his arm, he walked along as
fast as his long thin legs could carry him.
He smiled at those who stood on either hand,
but his expression was unusually important,
this being one of his oracular days. Some
of the pupils began to trot by his side, which
always pleased him ; and in order to show
what he really could do, he increased Lis
pace. They kept pelting him with such
questions as : "• Dr. Copingstone, am I to be
entered for the May Handicap ? " " Am I to
be scratched ? " "I had a capital trial last
week, so you will allow me to run, won't

you ? " But he only laughed and shook his
head knowingly.

At the Eectory gate another voice was
heard —

Pour Clamour de Dieu, mon bon monsieur,
donnez moi quelques sous afin que je puisse
retourner dans mon pays."

These words were whined out by a shabbily-dressed,
unkempt-looking man, holding his
cap in one hand, and with the other extended
in an attitude of entreaty. He doubtless
belonged to the large class of mendicants who
tramp about from school to school, making
an excellent livelihood by exciting the compassion
of the foreign masters, their fellow-countrymen.


At the sight of him, the Doctor started
back, and, as he often did under the influence
of sudden emotion, pressed his hand to his
side. However, his agitation was merely
momentary. Though he always listened with
a very wise face to reports upon the French
work, his knowledge of that language was
limited to two words which he used so promiscuously

as to suggest his ignorance of
their meaning. He fired them now at the
head of this French beggar.

Yenez ! " he cried, waving his hand vehemently.
" Yenez tout-despite ! " and dashed
into the Rectory garden.

Naturally enough, the man began to shuffle
alongside.

Yenez tout-despite ! " the Doctor shouted
to him.

The man quickened his pace, and whined
out something about a thousand thanks.

The Doctor stopped abruptly, looking
annoyed and perhaps a little alarmed. He
seemed to think that if he shouted louder, he
might yet make the stupid fellow understand.
So, pointing to the gate, he roared, " Yenez,
you donkey ! Yenez tout-despite ! Don't
you hear me ? "

'' Mais, oui, monsieur," said the man,
looking in a puzzled way from the Doctor to
the gate.

No, we mayn't. Be off, tout-despite ! "

Fortunately, Sterne and Philip arrived at

this moment, and the man was soon got rid
of. At the beginning of the incident Sterne
had been some distance down the street, but
quite close enough to have noticed the change
in the Doctor's manner. It added greatly to
his perplexity ; but he had no time to think
about it, having to attend the cabinet council
in the study.

The Doctor had already taken his seat at
the writing-table, upon which he had laid his
pile of papers. His manner displayed more
nervous haste than usual, as he glanced at
each paper in turn through his gold-rimmed
glasses, and then put it aside. On his right
hand sat Mr. Valentine Gaunt, with folded
arms and an abstracted expression, as became
the solemnity of the occasion. Anxious not
to present the least appearance of rivalry
Sterne was standing with his back against
the door ; his occupation, twiddling his
thumbs. The two men had scarcely spoken
to one another since their last encounter in
this very room, though Sterne had done his
utmost to keep up appearances. Near him

was pacing Mr. Jostler, an important-looking
man, thoughtfully stroking a beard which
reached to his waist. The other Professors
were grouped in various attitudes, some
standing, others sitting, and most talking in
undertones.

Presently the Doctor settled his papers,
cleared his throat, and began an appropriate
little speech which he kept in stock for these
occasions.

Gentlemen," he said, with a comprehensive
glance, " I am sorry to see so many palefaces
around me. You are overworked ; there
can be no doubt about it. My object in
calling you together to-day is to see how we
can manage to shift some of the work from
your shoulders to those of the pupils."

The new Professors felt that this was really
a very kind thing to say. The others, when
they could do so unobserved, smiled significantly
at one another.

It seems to me," the Doctor proceeded,
that the weight is not well distributed ; you
are bearing more than your fair share of it.

Now, how can I help you ? How can I
heighten your burdens ? Only tell me "

I have a small suggestion to offer, Dr.
Copingstone," announced Mr. Jostler, still
holding on to his beard as he stepped forward
to the side of the writing-table. But his
small suggestion being clearly embodied ina
lengthy speech, he was promptly suppressed.

Mr. Jostler retired, looking greatly disgusted.
It would be hard to say how often
he had brought forward his small suggestion
with the same unfortunate result.

The subject then dropped. In fact, it was
never meant to be taken up.

As regards the pupils," resumed the
Doctor, " I'm afraid we have a poor lot — a
miserable lot. The fault is not yours, of
course ; if you could have supplied the brains,
you would have done it. Each generation
seems to be more stupid than the last. Yet
the questions are stiffer and the competition
is keener. When you and I, Mr. Sterne,
first started this establishment, we had none
of these blockheads to deal with. Of course,

we hadn't, or I shouldn't be where I am
now." The old proud look came into his face,
but suddenly changed to one of annoyance.
I'll wait," he said cuttingly, " until you two
gentlemen have finished your conversation."

This remark was addressed to the Professors
of Geography and Spelling, who were
arranging for the usual game of billiards at
the Mark's-Nest. They coloured and were
silent. Professors are but human, after all.

'' I have succeeded," continued the Doctor,
flourishing a paper in the air, " in getting a
list of the examiners. Its value to us cannot
be over-estimated. I must ask each of you to
look at it for the examiner in your particular
subject, and then to study his questions in
the past, and to make your pupils acquainted
with them. You will find that the elimination
of cram is the one idea of these wiseacres.
For this purpose they set ' catch ' questions
which are altogether beyond the reasoning
powers of ordinary schoolboys, but for which
you can easily prepare your pupils. You
will notice that they avoid ' stock ' questions,

but often set the converse — for example, the
forty-eighth proposition of the first book of
Euclid instead of the forty-seventh. But you
will have no difficulty in discovering each
man's hobby. Oh ! and I have something
else to say. Does any one — any pupil want
easing off work ? If so, now is the time todo
it. The first moment you see any of them
looking dull or fagged, send him to me and
I'll pack him off for a holiday. Our candidates
must go to the post in good condition. Remember,
that is half the battle. And for
those who are nervous among them, I say,
examine — examine — examine. Make them
used to examinations, give them easy questions
at first, and they will gain confidence."

My method, precisely," croaked Mr.
Valentine Gaunt, from behind his folded
arms.

Just so, Mr. Gaunt, just so," said the
Doctor. *' And some of these gentlemen
would do well to take a leaf out of your
book."

Before him lay a sheet of foolscap, neatly

ruled by the Professor of Spelling. In the
first column the names of the pupils were
written in alphabetical order, while the other
columns were headed with the various subjects,
together with the maximum number of
marks obtainable in each. The Doctor, taking
up his pen, now turned his attention to this
paper.

A wretched, miserable lot," he said,
glancing down the list. " Heavisides, Metrical,
Plantagenet, Silverspoon — why, there's
not a safe one among them. There is something
very wrong somewhere. We must get
more work out of them ; we really must."

'^ If I might suggest," began Mr. Jostler,
apparently hauling himself forward by means
of his beard.

The Doctor waved him back, and Mr.
Jostler again retired in disgust. He looked
round for sympathy as he stood by the tiled
grate, but failing in this, thoughtfully awaited
the next opportunity for bringing forward
his small suggestion. He was in the uncomfortable
position of a man who had

prepared a speech and wanted to ease himself
of it.

Now," said the Doctor, " what will
Heavisides get in Latin and Greek, Mr.
Sterne ? "

Sterne formed a circle with his forefingers
and thumbs, and smiled through it ; whereupon
the Doctor dashed down the corresponding
figure.

"- And in your subjects, Mr. Jostler ? " he
asked.

Nothing, unless "

*then it is utterly absurd his going up.
He hasn't a chance — not a ghost of a chance.
It would be ridiculous to ruin him and spoil
your average. I'll scratch him."

He ran his pen through the name of the
steady-going Heavisides. Many other candidates
were treated in the same way, though
some were considered good enough to compete.
At length it came to Philip's turn.

Now, here is Strathclyde," said the
Doctor. " Latin, Mr. Sterne ? "

Twelve hundred."

'greek?"

Seven hundred."

English and French, Mr. Gaunt ? "

Six hundred, and four hundred and fifty."

Leonard Sterne, still leaning against the
door, looked up in surprise and indignation.
It would have been more politic to have
remained silent, but he never could hold
aloof when he felt that a wrong was being
done.

Why, Mr. Gaunt," he said, the tremor in
his tones showing what a powerful restraint
he was laying upon himself, " Philip told me
he was worth nearly a thousand marks in
each subject, and you yourself valued him
much higher last term."

I have given you Strathclyde's marks.
Dr. Coping-stone," said Mr. Valentine Gaunt
coldly.

The Doctor accordingly wrote them down
and, when he had obtained all that Philip
was expected to get in his various subjects,
added them up. They were below the
average total gained by the successful candi-vol.

I. R

dates who occupied the last place in the list
of recent examinations.

Then Strathclyde won't pass," exclaimed
the Doctor, in dismay. " This won't do — it
won't do at all. I promised his ait he
should pass. It must he done, Mr. Sterne.
It must be done, Mr. Gaunt."

It can't be done," declared Mr. Valentine
G-aunt, taking a stealthy look round the
room. " Strathclyde is weak, not only in
his subjects, but also in his health. I strongly
advise you to hold him over until the next
examination."

You will break his heart if you do," put
in Sterne " He is bent upon going up now ;
and what is more, he intends to pass."

Remember, Dr. Copingstone," said Mr.
Yalentine Gaunt, with that hovering movement
of the hand, '' I have warned you."

"He shall go," said the Doctor, speaking
with decision because he wished to get Philip
out of Puddleton.

Had Sterne known this, he would have
felt less satisfaction at his victory. It seemed

to him almost as if there was a chance of old
times coming back again.

After this little skirmish, business progressed
smoothly, and one by one the fate of
all the pupils was determined. Referring to
the unfortunates who had been scratched, the
Doctor said, in conclusion —

Now mind that you don't tell these poor
fellows. Let them fancy they are going up
until the last moment, keep them going, and
get as much work out of them as possible.
It won't do them any harm, and will keep
them out of mischief."

Here Mr. Jostler again advanced with his
big beard and his small suggestion. But the
Doctor no sooner became aware of his intention
than he sprang to his feet, and with a
hasty " Good morning, gentlemen," rushed
from the room.

Mr. Jostler, though an excellent tutor, was
so long-winded as to have become a perfect
terror to his chief. He gazed in surprised
distress at the tall thin figure flying from
him, and then, consoling himself with the

reflection that his speech would do for another
occasion, followed the other Professors out of
the Rectory.

When Sterne reached the street, he looked
about for the French beggar, but found that
he had disappeared. Other people might be
deceived by the Doctor's cheerfulness, but he
had learnt to look beneath it. A crisis, he
felt, was gradually approaching, unless the
unexpected should intervene to prevent it.
So he was ready to clutch at any straw, and
to connect things that apparently had no
connection.

Philip, who now joined him, gave his
thoughts a powerful impetus in this direction.

CHAPTER XV.

GROPING IX THE DARK. '

The cabinet council bad scarcely commenced
when it occurred to Philip to make an
attempt to see Nellie. So be turned down
by the Splasbwater, went past the groaning*
old mill, and emerged in the meadow at the
back of the Rectory garden. In spite of the
Doctor's watch fulness and Nellie's protests,
Pbilip bad waylaid ber bere more than once
before, for about this time sbe usually returned
from visiting an old woman wbo lived
in a cottage at the bottom of the lane skirting
the meadow. It was perfectly fair, Pbilip
declared; be bad frankly told the Doctor
what be meant to do ; and no fault could be
found with Nellie, wbo really could not help
herself.

Philip strolled along by the side of the
sedgy mill-dam, where the ducks were splashing
about as if in anticipation of rain, and
sat down beneath the clump of alders. The
clouds hung heavy over the grassy slopes of
Camelback, but the sunlight was tinging with
a ruddy glow the line of straggling brick
houses peeping from among the trees. Philip
felt a certain accession of hopefulness when
he turned his eyes from the dark hill before
him to this bright scene, backed by a medley
oj" green fields which rose and fell like the
billows of the ocean. Not that he was inclined
to despondency ; only there were times of
doubt when his own strength compared less
favourably with the Doctor's powers of resistance.


But any cloud that may have crossed his
mind, instantly vanished when he beheld
Nellie tripping along through the buttercups
and daisies. The sleepy cows gazed wonderingly
at the dainty figure that, basket in
hand, glided before them like a beautiful
fairy. There was a happy smile on her face,

but her rosy lips were pursed up to administer
a severe reprimand to this obstinate lover
who would pursue her, notwithstanding all
she might say to the contrary.

'' Oh, fie, you naughty boy ! " she exclaimed,
shaking her finger reprovingly at
the handsome fair-haired lad who was advancing
to meet her. " Philip, you really area
positive wretch. How often have I told you,
sir, that you mustn't come near me, and yet
here you are again, looking as saucy as ever!"

You dear sweet blue-eyed thing," said
Philip fondly. " How can I help coming

near

you



You must wait until my father gives his
consent, if he ever does."

Oh, but I can't wait, and I'm going to
have another shot at him soon, Nellie. Drop
-—drop — drop, that's the way to make an
impression upon his stony heart. Dear mein
another two months I shall have a good
appointment."

'^ That's if you pass, Philip."

'rand I intend to pass, NelHe." (We shall

see presently that he does nothing of the
sort, but through no fault of his own.) " And
when I have passed, I shall go to the Doctor
and say, ' I have come again to ask you for
the sweetest, prettiest

Don't be foolish, sir," said Nellie, pouting.
I told my father that you never did talk
nonsense, but I see now I was wrong. And,
oh, Philip" — the long dark lashes drooped,
and a blush spread over the dimpled cheeks —
I have something to tell you."

Say on, Nellie."

She looked up timidly as she said, " Mr.
Gaunt has given me a bracelet."

He staggered back as if a blow had struck
him. Mrs. Sterne's suspicion about the
missing photograph had stirred in him some
very disquieting thoughts, and they started
before him now in letters cf fire. His face
was bloodless, and he gasped for breath.

*' My poor, poor Philip," cried Nellie in
terror, " what have I done ? I haven't taken
the bracelet, but I'm afraid my father hasn't
given it back."

Great as his relief was, he was still too
deeply moved to speak at once. When he
did, he said in a low voice —

Not given it back, my pet ! What do
you mean ? "

I think," she replied, after some hesitation,
" he doesn't wish to offend Mr. Gaunt,
and as I wouldn't keep it, he kept it himself"

So Mr. Gaunt imagines you have it
still ? "

I suppose so."

Then," declared Philip, impulsively, " I'll
just go straight to Mr. Gaunt and undeceive
him. I'll tell him that you are engaged tome.


Oh, Philip," cried Nellie, blushing more
deeply, " you can't do that ; you can't, indeed.
I ask it, Philip, for my sake. And remember "
she turned her head away — " Mr. Gaunt
might think that my father had been doing
something wrong, instead of wishing to
protect me."

Philip felt exceedingly angry with the
Doctor for obliging his daughter to participate

in a deception in order to shield himself. It
was the very thing to grate most harshly
upon the lad's keen sense of honour, and yet
he was not in a position to protest against it.
It was a bitter pill for him to swallow,
making him distrust the Doctor, the man in
whom he should have had the most implicit
confidence. He had but one consolation,
that if Mr. Valentine Gaunt was really
scheming to win Nellie, he had in no way
advanced his prospects so far as she was
concerned. Upon this point she succeeded in
reassuring Philip more completely than she
was able to reassure herself; for she saw the
direction in which events were moving, and
disobedience to her father s will was a thing
that she could not contemplate.

When Nellie reached the Rectory, she laid
her hat and basket on the hall-table and then
entered the study, which was by this time
deserted. She was very fond of the room
because of its bow-window looking out upon
the tennis-ground, while through the other
window she could see anybody approaching

the front door. Besides, it was well supplied
with all kinds of books, which tended to
impress upon visitors the vast extent of the
Doctor's learning. Since her mother's death
Nellie had been thrown upon her own resources,
and when not engaged in errands of
mercy in the parish or riding with her father,
she employed most of her time in reading.
It was her delight to sit, with a book on her
lap, in a low basket chair placed for her
especial use in the bow-window, while the
Doctor dashed off a pile of letters, or, as
frequently happened, dozed : a thing that
he always indignantly denied, for he was
very proud of telling everybody how early
he rose in the morning, and how hard he
worked all day. Even in this he was true
to himself.

There was a troubled look in Nellie's blue
eyes, as she took her favourite seat in the
bow-window. She was gazing at some faraway
prospect which she could see but dimly,
and dreaded all the more on that account.
Her hands were clasped upon her knees, and

her graceful figure was bent slightly forward,
and so she sat for a little while.

Presently her thoughts reverted to the old
woman she had been visiting ; a queer old
body — very crooked and very deaf, with long
white curls framing her shrivelled face — who
had a habit of opening the Bible at random,
when she wanted to pry into the future.
Why should not she do the same ? Even if
she could not place the same reliance upon it,
it might give her some comfort, when everything
looked so dark and hopeless. Her
happiness was interwoven with Philip's, and
her father s was set upon the house of cards
that he was ever building higher and higher;
dissension was already threatening the one,
and the other seemed well-nigh desperate.
Perhaps she might get a gleam of light by
following the old woman's example. So,
sweeping from her pretty pensive face the
masses of dark hair that had clustered over
her forehead, as if she were then brushing
the troubles aside, Nellie rose and walked to
the bookcase.

It was a handsome, old fashioned piece of
furniture, made of dark, highly-polished
mahogany, and divided into three compartments,
each provided with a glass door, the
centre one being double the size of the others.
The wings were filled chiefly with heavy
works on divinity, which could not have
possessed any great attraction for the Doctor,
the doors not having been opened for years ;
indeed, the very keys had disappeared. As
Martha, the old housemaid, had no recollection
of ever having seen any, it had been
suggested that the Doctor had bought books
and bookcase all complete at an auction.

Nellie opened the door of the central compartment,
to which she always went for her
books. She thought that she might find
there what she wanted ; besides, there was the
possibility of coming across some other treasure
in her search. She had never properly explored
the top shelves, but by means of a
chair she did so now. While thus employed,
her attention was drawn to a large, finely-bound
book lying in the right wing. Though

it was partly hidden beneath dust and papers,
she perceived it to be an illustrated family
Bible, the very thing she was looking for.
But how was she to get it ?

She shook the glass door, but that did no
good. After a little reflection, it occurred to
her to try the key of the central door, and
great was her delight at hearing a *' click" as
the key turned in the lock. Nellie soon had
the cumbrous book in her arms. She dusted
it very carefully, and then carried it to her
chair in the window. This done, she walked
back to the bookcase, and closed the door in
order to give the Doctor an agreeable little
surprise when he came in. He would be
very pleased, she felt, that she had discovered
a way of getting at the contents of the wings ;
a task which he had often told her he dared
not entrust to the bungling workmen of
Puddleton.

Nellie sat down with the Bible in her lap.
There was a slight trembling about the
corners of the tiny mouth, as she held the
heavy book so as to let it fall open ; but the

next moment it partly slipped from her grasp
and opened at the very beginning, at the page
headed " Family Register."

With what strange interest do we regard
everything that lies near either end of the
silver cord ! How eagerly do we hang upon
the last words of him who is leaving us for
that bourne whence there is no return !
Already its dark shadow is upon him. Can
he see what is hidden from our eyes ? Can
he hear what is inaudible to our ears ? We
watch and listen, but never a ray or echo has
yet reached us. It is the same with the
beginning as with the end. Those tiny mites
of humanity just arrived from another world,
their fists clenched as if they had heard of
the stern fight that lay before them, what can
they tell us about the past ? They, too, are
silent on the subject, though we watch them
wonderingly.

It is with something of the same awe that
we behold in the family Bible the record of
our birth, written probably on the very day,
possibly in the very hour, when we came

into the world. The book, perhaps a wedding
present to our parents ; the paper yellow with
age ; the ink faded ; the handwriting shaky,
smudged, and sometimes stained with tears ;
and often — oh, how often ! — an awful " died,"
and a never-to-be-forgotten date, following
the name of one we loved. As we gaze,
memory after memory passes before us ; our
eyes grow dim, and our lips quiver. Another
will turn from these memorable landmarks in
our lives with a careless glance ; but for us,
they are a record of hopes destroyed and fears
realized, of many sobs and few smiles, of life
and death.

Nellie experienced a sudden shock at perceiving
where the book had opened. It set
all her nerves vibrating, not so much from
any superstitious influence as from the fact
that here would be recorded the death of her
darling mother. Some feeling that she could
not account for, prevented her from turning
to another place, and yet she kept her eyes
averted from the page. They were drawn to it
at last, however, almost against her own will ;

some strange fascination seemed to drag them
along the pattern on the carpet until, after
making a final pause at her pretty little feet,
they rested upon her father's well-known
handwriting — and a shocking scrawl it was.

And now her expression changed to one
of utter bewilderment, and she began to
tremble, she scarcely knew why. Lower and
lower she bent her head, following each
word with her finger, as if to guard against
the possibility of making a mistake. In this
way she read through the entries twice. Her
cheeks had gradually been growing paler,
and when she drew herself erect, she sat as
rigid and almost as white as a marble statue.
Though Nellie had a singularly sweet young
face, she now looked quite ten years older
than she really was.

But at the sound of a footstep on the gravel
outside, the blood rushed back to her cheeks,
and she started into animation. In tremulous
haste she thrust the Bible behind the window-curtain,
and when the Doctor entered, a
moment or so later, she was gazing thought-vol.

I. S

fully at the tennis-court. Not a word was
said about the agreeable little surprise.

Meanwhile, Philip had met Sterne at the
Eectory gate, and the two friends walked
back to the Hut together. They entered the
study, lighted their pipes, and sat down to
talk.

Sterne prudently abstained from saying
anything about Mr. Yalentine Gaunt's opposition.
He told Philip that he was included
in the next batch of candidates, and nothing
more. Philip received the announcement asa
matter of course, for he had never dreamed
of the smallest difficulty. He did not even
inquire the number of marks allotted to him,
but passed on to another subject.

Did you notice," he asked, " how
frightened the Doctor was of that French
beggar ? "

He did seem a little startled," replied
Sterne.

A little startled ! Dear me, I thought he
looked terrified. And I'll tell you another
thing, which has just struck me for the first

time. There is not a single foreign tutor in
Puddleton. Has there ever been ? "

^' No. French and Gi-german have always
been taught by an Englishman."

Well, don't you think that a very strange
thing ? "

Sterne emitted a cloud of smoke before he
replied, " I suppose the Doctor doesn't like
foreigners."

He was trying to connect the fact that Mr.
Valentine Gaunt taught French with his
influence over the Doctor ; but could not see
his way to it. He could not but feel it to bea
wild idea, and yet it seemed to throw a
glimmer of light upon the testimonials, which
he knew must have spoken of their possessor's
knowledge of French. The worst of the
supposition was, that it made the matter more
inexplicable than ever.

I wish there were a French tutor here,"
said Philip. " I frankly admit that Mr.
Gaunt gets magnificent marks for his pupils,
but I can't endure the man."

Steady, Philip, steady ! "

Well, it's the fact. What do you think
he has been doing ? Giving Nellie a
bracelet. Perhaps I shouldn't have told you,
but it's out now."

Leonard Sterne looked very grave. He
turned his chair round towards the window
where Philip was sitting on the couch ; and
with his elbows resting on the writing-table,
commenced a series of questions which soon
put him in possession of the whole story. It
made him extremely uncomfortable, for he
Ira a genuine affection for ISTellie as well as
for Philip. There could be no doubt that the
very catastrophe he dreaded had been brought
a step nearer.

Oh," cried Philip, with deep feeling,
how happy we all were before Mr. Gaunt
came into the place ! He has done nothing
but set everybody at sixes and sevens. I'm
quite sure the Doctor doesn't like him, for I
have caught a queer furtive look in his face
at times."

I don't think you have any right to say
that, PhiHp."

Yell, perhaps not ; it was only my fancy.
But, at any rate, he looks a good deal older
than he did a few months ago ; and sometimes,
when he doesn't know any one is watching,
he scarcely seems happy. So I naturally
set down his worries to the same cause as my
own, and that is Mr. Gaunt. I wonder what
the man was before he came here."

Why, a tutor, of course," said Sterne in
surprise.

Not he ; I'm positive of that. He has all
the papers at his fingers' ends now, but at
first he didn't know a single question — not
one. He has got them up since. So, if he
taught anything at all, it was not for the
Civil Service Examinations ; and he did
everything so clumsily until we put him in
the way of it, that I'm sure this is his first
tutorship."

As Philip was only retailing what had
long been common gossip among the pupils,
it would, in the ordinary course of events,
have reached Sterne's ears shortly after it
was started ; but he had never allowed anyone

in his presence to say anything against
Mr. Yalentine Gaunt , and so had never heard
it until now. It astonished him, and added
greatly to his perplexity. If Mr. Yalentine
Gaunt had not been a tutor, how had he
obtained his testimonials ? Surely they could
not be forgeries. Even if he were capable of
such an act, how, by their means, could he
have got the Doctor into his power ? With
genuine testimonials the answer was difficult
enough, but forged ones seemed to put it
qjiite beyond the bounds of possibility. It
was another ungenerous thought, Sterne
decided, as he pulled away vigorously at his
pipe.

As for keeping order in his classes," continued
Philip, who, though not in the habit
of saying things of the sort, had been made
exceedingly angry by the gift of the bracelet,
dear me, the man hasn't a notion of it."

There, my boy," interrupted Sterne,
*' you know I don't care to discuss that subject
with you."

Well, may I tell you of an odd thing that

happened last term ? There was a great row
going on at the time, and that is what has
reminded me of it, but Mr. Gaunt himself was
away in London."

Yes, I don't see any harm in that."

Philip accordingly described the episode
of the wig. He mentioned the name and
address of the maker, and Sterne made a
mental note of them, though not with any
definite purpose. Further conversation was
stopped by the gong for lunch.

You'll stay, Philip ? " inquired Sterne,
laying down his pipe.

No, thank you. I promised to get home
early."

Well, if you won't, you won't. I must
trot along and wash my paws. Philip, let
me give you a timely piece of advice taught
me by my pupils, the sons of the first gentlemen
in England. Soil your tongue as much
as you like, and you may still be a fine
fellow ; but, whatever you do, keep your
hands clean." With a laugh, he opened the
door and disappeared.

When Philip gained the street, he met one
or two of his friends hurrying in to lunch,
and stopped to chat with them. He had
always been a favourite with the other pupils ;
he was an adept in all sports for one thing,
and so full of spirits and good-humour for
another. But, since hearing of his engagement
to Nellie, they had elevated him to the
position of a hero. The Doctor had flatly
denied it. Gammon had made many mercenary
statements to the same effect, and Mr.
Valentine Gaunt had grown quite rancorous
on the subject ; but Philip, when appealed to,
had stated exactly how matters stood. He
was engaged to Nellie, he declared, and he
would win her or perish in the attempt ; a
sentiment that gained for him an immense
amount of admiration. Henceforth, the
sonnets ceased, and the poets mourned their
occupation gone, for all had an hereditary
hatred of anything in the nature of poaching
; they retired from the field in favour
of Philip, who had their heartiest sympathies.
This was a factor that might have

to be reckoned with, for the pupils were
undeniably a power — if not the power — in
Puddleton.

Philip was surprised at not meeting any
of them as he pursued his way through
the village. It was generally pretty quiet
about this hour, but not such a complete
wilderness as now. There was not a soul
to be seen, even Gammon's shop by the
bridge being empty. As the pupils usually
straggled in to lunch, Philip had to look
elsewhere for an explanation. " I suppose,"
he concluded, " they are hard at work for the
exam."

He had scarcely arrived at this conclusion
when he became aware of a noise which
rapidly developed into a prodigious din — the
galloping of horses, the rattling of harness,
the tooting of coach-horns, shouts, cheers,
and laughter all mingled together, as if a
battery of demons were bearing down upon
the scene. People rushed to their doors and
windows ; as if by magic, the street was lined
with curious faces. There was a sharp turn

a short distance below the bridge, and Philip
hastened towards the group that had collected
at this spot.

The din increased every moment, and presently
the cause of it came into view — a coach
and ten, the roof crammed with pupils and
bristling with horns and surmounted by a
large red flag. Silverspoon, mounted on the
box, was driving the four nearest horses ;
whilst the rest of the team, harnessed together
in some mysterious way, were managed by
three jockeys in scarlet, who were none other
than Merridale, Tattlemaine, and the steady-going
Heavisides, the latter's broad face
beaming with delight. " Eh, my ! but the
young gents is going it, to be sure ! "
observed Joseph Haply ; and they certainly
were '* going it," the most wonderful thing
being that they had contrived to save their
necks.

** The Manor, sir — going to the Manor ? "
cried Plantagenet, the guard.

Yes," replied Philip, very glad to get a
ride home.

When he had scrambled up he was informed
that the coach was a holiday present
to Silverspoon, who had organized a party to
fetch it from Stilbury. Taking a scratch
collection of harness, they had ridden over
on their own horses, and were now returning
in triumph. The policy of giving a coach to
the young viscount at this period of his education
may be open to question ; but then it
mattered very little to Silverspoon, who was
destined for the Guards, whether he did or
did not pass his examination — in either case,
he was merely qualifying for a seat in the
House of Lords.

His team was certainly a strange one, each
member of it going its own particular pace,
while the jockeys laughed and shouted, and
the horns toothed on the roof. There was
a general cheer when the Hive came insight
and Mr. Valentine Graunt was seen to
be standing in the road. He was talking to
a disreputable-looking man, who on nearer
inspection turned out to be the French
beggar. They separated as the coach rattled

on towards them, and when it went by, the
methodical Professor took off his hat and
playfully waved it in the air. They cheered
him for this and asked him to jump up ; but,
shaking his head pleasantly, he entered his
garden.

After his conversation with Sterne, Philip
was rather startled at seeing the French
beggar in Mr. Valentine Gaunt's company,
for he had noticed the influence of each upon
the Doctor. If only he could interview the
fellow, he might learn something that would
enable him to help the Doctor, and so bring
himself nearer to Nellie. Philip had no
sooner formed the idea than he determined
to put it into practice.

As he could not very safely leave his seaton
the roof while the coach was swaying
like a ship at sea, he requested Silverspoon
to pull up : a difficult task, involving a considerable
amount of time. However, the ten
horses were eventually brought to a standstill,
whereupon Philip descended and began
to retrace the way towards the village.

When he turned the corner of the road, he
saw the French beggar approaching the gate
of the Hut, and hastened forward to meet
him.

END OF VOL. I.

LONDON: PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,
Stamford STREET AND CHARING CROSS.

"?

0112 084210647

Im

;^:;yi

m<'

'


Hi

OF THE

U N Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

V 2

mj. . M

A TALE OF AN ARMY CRAMMER.

BY

HUGH COLEMAN DAVIDSON,

AUTHOR OF
'THE GREEN HILLS BY THE Sea'' "CAST ON THE WATERS," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, Searle, & Livingston,

LIMITED,

ct. Dunstan's p?ousc,
Fetter Lane, Fleet Street, Eg.

1888,

hall rights reserved

PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,

STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. Too Late . . . . 1

II. A Sudden Departure . . . 21

III. At Sixes and Sevens . . 38

IV. The Examination . . 61

V. Nellie's Trouble . . . 91

VI. An Unpleasant Surprise . 106

VII. Fallen among Thieves . . 129

VIII. A Difficult Problem . . 150

IX. Drifting . . . . 171

X. A Strange Mission . . 193

XI. Hebe's Flight . . . 213

XII. Forced to marry . . 235

CHAPTER I.

TOO LATE.

Before Philip could reach the gate, the
French beggar had joined Mr. Valentine
Gaunt, who appeared to have been waiting
for him in the garden. This oddly-matched
couple must have nearly finished their conversation,
for scarcely a word passed between
them. Surprised at the man's disappearance
through the gateway, Philip had stopped to
look over the wall ; and saw that some money
was given by the one to the other. But the
next moment two pairs of eyes were fastened
upon him, and, feeling that he was playing

VOL. II. B

^0

the spy, he withdrew ; only to return with
the intention of frankly showing himself.

When he looked again, Mr. Valentine
G-aunt, with his hands in his pockets, was
smoking his big meerschaum on the lawn,
while his seedy acquaintance had vanished.

A smartly-dressed page appeared at the
door and made obeisance.

Lunch is ready, sir," he announced. The
Hive was not remarkable for punctuality.

Yery well, John," said Mr. Yalentine
Gaunt, regarding the youth with the pride of
recent proprietorship ; though it must be
added that John led a frightful life among
so many masters. " Tell Mrs. Smith " — the
housekeeper — *' that I am going to London
this afternoon and shall not return until tomorrow.
She is to pack my bag for one
night. And now ring the bell."

•'Yes, sir," said John, and departed on his
mission.

When Mr. Yalentine Gaunt had knocked
the ashes out of his pipe, he sauntered in to
lunch, which had already commenced without

him. It was part of his method, but it sometimes
resulted in his faring rather badly, and
it never failed to ruffle his temper. In fact,
he found it difficult to drop the master in
some things and retain it in others, the pupils
were so lamentably wanting ia discrimination.
In consequence, meals at the Hive were
terrible scrambles, costing the Professor many
a groan as he saw his favourite delicacies
appropriated by these selfish young fellows
before he could get a chance.

To-day, thanks to the coach, there was no
great crush, and yet it was noticed that he
was not in the best of tempers. Though it
was his habit to assume at times an air of
philosophic abstraction which threw his
lighter moods into strong relief, he was
unusually silent at table, and it was very
soon whispered about that " something was
up." This became all the clearer when he
announced his intention of going to London.

Lectures were over for the day, Wednesday
being a half-holiday, but he arranged for the
work of the following morning. Then he

wrote a note, explaining to the Doctor that
he was called away by urgent business ; and,
after a quiet smoke, took his bag in his hand
and strolled up to the Mark's-Nest to get a
trap.

Dog-cart at once for Stilbury," he said,
entering the yard.

The man thus addressed turned round with
a start, for he had not heard any one coming,
so softly had that stealthy footstep fallen
upon the stone pavement. He was a little
thick-set man, with stubbly red hair, a very
freckled complexion, and a turned-up nose —
a stranger to Mr. Valentine Gaunt — in fact,
he had been engaged by Mr. Smirkee only
that morning. His shirt-sleeves were rolled
up to his elbows, and he was carrying a
bucket and a mop, which he now set down.

'' Dog-cart for Stilbury, sir. Yes, sir,"
said he, touching his cap. He began to
bustle about the yard, but soon returned to
add, ^* If you please, sir, I was to ask you for
your order."

My order ! '* exclaimed Mr. Valentine

Gaunt, for he had not yet heard of the
Doctor's arrangements. " Great heavens,
man ! what do you mean ? "

I'm not very clear myself, sir. Master
said an order signed by the Doctor or Mr.
Sterne, I think the name was, and I wasn't
to let no one go without it."

The matter was plain enough now. Mr.
Valentine Gaunt felt that a gross indignity
had been put upon him by the Doctor. Here
he was publicly proclaimed to be on a lower
level than Sterne. His cheek-bones were
ablaze with rage.

You blundering idiot ! " he cried. " I'm
not a pupil, I'm a tutor — Mr. Valentine
Gaunt."

Can't help that, sir," replied the man
doggedly. " Them's my orders."

Confound your insolence ! You shall be
discharged for this, my man. Where is
Mr. Smirkee ? "

"He's at Stilbury, sir."

Where is Albert, then ? "

Driving the fly, sir."

Goodness gracious ! Who is in charge
of the yard ? " ,

I am, sir."

Here was a pleasant predicament for a
learned Professor. The man answered civilly
enough, but as he stood there twisting his
cap round his fingers, with the sunlight
falling upon his red hair and freckled face,
he looked the very embodiment of stubbornness.
Mr. Valentine Gaunt ripped his watch
out of his pocket, and saw that in another
twenty minutes he would have no chance of
catching the train.

I can't afford to waste my time here," he
said desperately. " Once more I tell you
that my name is Yalentine Gaunt ; that I ama
tutor, and not a pupil ; and that the rule
you mention doesn't apply to me. Now, do
you understand ? Come, my good fellow,
bustle about and get that dog-cart sharp."

You've heard my orders, sir," returned
the man, still twisting his cap round his
fingers ; " you must go to them as gave
them."

You obstinate fool ! "

You call yourself a gentleman, I suppose,
sir ? " said the man, without the least intention
of irony. " Well, I wasn't to let no
gentleman go. Them's my orders, sir."

Perhaps Mr. Yalentine Gaunt might have
escaped through this loophole without laying
any great burden on his conscience, but in a
towering rage he flung his bag into a corner
of the yard, and strode off towards the
Eectory.

Gammon, in a blue apron, and with a
cleaver in his hand, stood in the doorway
and touched his hat as that tall, strong,
round-shouldered figure went by; Whittle
looked after him curiously, wondering whether
any accident had befallen the big meerschaum,
without which he was seldom seen. Joseph
Haply heaved at him a word of greeting, and
from among the greenery already spread
around the lattice windows, faces smiled
pleasantly at the man who had become a
power in their midst. They honestly liked
him, for he never showed his teeth except to

those who stood in his way. This, again,
was part of his method.

But, affable as he could be when he chose,
he paid no heed to anybody now ; merely
strode on with a determined purpose. In
front of the Hut he came face to face with
Leonard Sterne. He stopped at once.

"• Ha ! " he said, scowling from beneath his
heavy brows. " What's the meaning of this —
thi^impertinent rule about orders, Mr. Sterne?"

"The Doctor is responsible for all the
rules here, Mr. Graunt. I don't know which
you allude to."

That blockhead in Smirkee's yard has
refused me a trap because I am unprovided
with an order from the Doctor, or Mr. Sterne,
forsooth. Before I can leave Puddleton, I
must ask permission of the Rev. Leonard
Sterne. I am told this by a low stableman.
Is it a practical joke for the benefit of the
village ? "

The Doctor didn't consult me in the
matter," said Sterne quietly. " I must refer
you to him, Mr. Gaunt."

** Indeed," said the other, in his most
insolent manner. He was almost beside
himself with rage.

Sterne's long face relaxed into a smile. He
could no longer resist the temptation of giving
this irritating man a playful dig in the ribs,
imprudent as it was.

"• Meanwhile," he said blandly, " until you
have set matters right with the Doctor, will
you allow me to give you an order ? "

For a moment this speech seemed to have
taken Mr. Valentine Gaunt's breath away.
He could do nothing but stare. Then his
eyes blazed up with diabolical hatred, and he
hissed out —

Some day you will be sorry for this, you
wolf in sheep's clothing."

It would have been some consolation if he
had goaded the clergyman into losing his
temper, but Sterne merely turned on his heel
and continued his way towards the Mark's
He also was going to London, and
would gladly have offered the other a seat in
his trap, but anything of the sort was now

impossible. He felt sorry that he had yielded
to the impulse to say something sharp ; it
was not the first time that he had unintentionally
widened the breach, but his nature
contained a certain amount of acidity which
he had not altogether got rid of when he put
on the cassock, and it was the more difficult
to control in private on account of the strong
restraint that he laid upon his tongue in
public.

Mr. Valentine Gaunt stood looking after
Sterne, and then went on to the Rectory,
where he spent an hour in badgering the
Doctor. He resembled a large clock running
down after the pendulum had been removed.
He struck but one note, and that note was
Leonard Sterne. It was not a new character
for him to appear in ; he had already shown
himself to be a bully, but not of such a
pronounced type as now ; he had advanced
another step, and that was all.

The Doctor's face was a pitiable sight. It
had aged sadly, as it seemed in some strange
way to do when his will was overpowered.

His thin fingers were nervously passing
through and through his grey hair, and ashe
hung over his writing-table, he looked a
tired-out old man ; but when the abuse of his
friend ended in a demand for his dismissal,
he gathered himself together with the resolution
of despair. No doubt he was partly
influenced by motives of self-interest, knowing
that the establishment in which all his ambition
was centred would infallibly fall to the
ground if he were to lose Leonard Sterne,
who possessed in a very high degree the
powers of management, in which Mr. Valentine
Gaunt was utterly deficient ; but mingled
with this feeling was a determination to
stand by the trusty lieutenant who had stood
by him.

Mr. Valentine Gaunt, who had been watching
the Doctor with steady eyes and hovering
foot, was quick to notice the change and shift
his ground. He glided away to another topic,
and did not again recur to the old one. In
fact, he still showed remarkable indecision in
pressing a point home. When he eventually

left the Eectory, he looked anything but
satisfied with himself. Conscious of having
shown weakness, he feared that the Doctor
might some day avail himself of it and
summon up enough courage to advance.
Essentially a coward, Mr. Valentine Gaunt
was very apt to take alarm at the least sign
of resistance, and, indeed, at the opportunity
for it.

Jn the village he met Hebe Pike, who
blushed and smiled at him with a very pretty
shyness. His manner towards her was one
of kindly patronage, yet he watched her
much as a doctor watches a patient in a
critical condition. Her brown eyes fell before
his earnest gaze, and she prattled away at a
treat rate in order to cover her confusion.
When he told her where he was going, this
brisk young lady whisked a letter from her
pocket.

'' I kept it ready," she said, '' and now I'll
fasten it." Which she accordingly did, and
then handed it to him.

"Now that Arnold is getting on," said

Mr. Yalentine Gaunt, complacently stroking
his whiskers, '' don't you think — eh ? "

Really, Mr. Gaunt," said Hebe, not at
all displeased at his mysterious suggestion,
though she turned her back upon him.
But it's about time to do something."
Really, Mr. Gaunt."

"Well, think it over. Miss Hebe. If a
friend can help you, you know where to find
him. Good afternoon. You shall have your
answer tomorrow."

He found a dog-cart waiting for him in
Smirkee's yard, Higgins having been despatched
by the Doctor to explain matters to
the obstinate ostler, who was now very profuse
in his apologies ; and in less than an
hour he was at S tilbury, where he was
received with the same ceremony as on a
previous occasion. As he had driven over
alone, the dog-cart was sent to the Cygnet,
an old-fashioned inn near the station, with
instructions that it should be ready for him
when he returned on the following afternoon.
It was nearly six o'clock before Mr. Valentine

Gaunt arrived in London. After making
perfectly certain that there was no one else
from Puddleton in the train, he engaged a
hansom and drove straight to Momus Street,
but at the corner he cautiously alighted. He
had displayed much uneasiness during the
journey, and an altercation with the driver
about the fare did not improve his temper.
However, not caring to attract notice, he paid
what the man demanded, and walked slowly
on to his destination.

Suddenly he stopped and changed colour —
there were bills in the windows of No. 13.
The house was deserted ; it looked like a
blind man from whose eyes the light has
died out for ever. The dust lay thickly on
the panes, and two of them were broken
already. No matter how great the desolation,
if only there be unprotected glass, there is
sure to be some British urchin ready with a
stone.

For Mr. Yalentine Gaunt this forsaken
house had a horribly mocking aspect. He
detected malice in the blankly-staring windows

; he heard it in the breeze rustling the
straw and papers in the area ; the very
figures which some ingenious young artist
had traced in the dust upon the door, seemed
to be grinning at him ; even the chirping of
an impudent sparrow in the roadway added
to his irritation. He was so angry that he
clenched his fist and shook it at the house.

A street Arab came whistling by — a bright,
merry little fellow, in spite of his tattered
clothes which scarcely held together. Mr.
Valentine Gaunt asked him whether he knew
how long the tenants had gone. He replied
that he did not, but there was an auctioneer's
at the corner. Would the kind gentleman
give him a copper ? No, the kind gentleman
would do nothing of the sort. Though there
had been a hungry longing in his brown
face, the little fellow laughed and whistled
on merrily again, leaving Mr. Yalentine
Gaunt moodily studying the bills in the
windows.

When at length he turned away, he discovered
that he was being watched by a

figure standing on the opposite side of the
street — a slim athletic figure, with a long
brown beard, an austere type of face, a black
coat, and a hat with a broad brim and a
tassel.

His first impulse was to dash across the
street and give free vent to his feelings, but
he checked himself, pausing until he felt able
to keep to his method. Then he advanced so
slowly that each foot hung a very perceptible
time in the air.

So you have followed me here, Mr.
Sterne," he sneered.

I feared you might think so, Mr. Gaunt,"
said Sterne very quietly, " when I unexpectedly
saw you on the other side of the
street, and for that reason T waited, to explain
if you wished. I preceded you to London."

"And waited at the station."

I need scarcely deny that. You are the
last person I should have expected to find
here."

Ditto, Mr. Sterne."

Your tone," said Sterne, looking fearlessly

at the sinister face that was watching; hin
with such an insolent expression, " is not one
to encourage a friendly explanation, but here
it is, nevertheless. I have been visiting a
good old soul, to whom I am indebted for
much motherly care — for my life, in fact.
She was nurse in my father's family, and
now lives in Bloomsbury, where I go to see
her occasionally. There is nothing very
strange in that."

Oh dear, no,''" rasped out Mr. Yalentine
Gaunt. "Nothing strange at all. So you
have been visiting a good old soul, have you,
Mr. Sterne ? And being a charitable giver,
you have been sneaking through the most
deserted streets, I suppose."

Do you claim the monopoly of all the
deserted streets ? " inquired Sterne, with a
smile. " I have told you it was an accident."

I don't believe a word of your lies,"
roared the Professor of English. " Not one
word of them. You profess to like candour,
Mr. Sterne. Here it is ; here is my candid
opinion of you. You're a sneaking, hypo-vol.

II. C

critical spy, nothing more nor less ; a confounded
sneaking, canting, hypocritical spy,
sir."

Then I shall not trouble you when I
want a testimonial," laughed Sterne, stepping
back to put temptation out of the way of the
other's restless hand.

Oh, I wouldn't hurt you," said Mr.
Yalentine Gaunt, after a swift glance of apprehension,
for the shaft had stung him more
than he cared to show. " I wouldn't touch a
hair of your head. Gentlemen, Mr. Sterne
gentlemen fight only with gentlemen."

I didn't know they fought at all, Mr.
Gaunt. But now that you have enlightened
me, I am glad to hear that there is some bar
to promiscuous brawling."

Mr. Yalentine Gaunt retreated a few paces
in order to get a better look at the clergyman.
It was his method of showing unutterable
contempt. When he had finished his
survey, he did what he felt sorry for in his
cooler moments — walked to one side and
pointed to the house opposite.

Too late," he sneered ; " too late, you
clerical hypocrite. Your pretended ignorance
won't deceive me. What I first thought a
calamity has turned out to be a blessing.
I'll wish you good afternoon, Mr. Sterne."

When left alone, Leonard Sterne remained
for some time in the same attitude, thinking
deeply. He was engaged in a keen debate
with himself as to how he should act. Puzzled
as he was, he felt that chance had brought
him to the threshold of a mystery, which he
was anxious to explore, but he doubted
whether he ought to proceed considering all
the circumstances. He was still haunted by
the dread of doing anything out of jealous
rivalry. or personal feeling; he had so long
been the Doctor's lieutenant as to regard
himself as a piece of the machinery at Puddleton
rather than as an individual with
independent sensations ; and so he had grown
into the habit of considering how each action
of his would influence the whole. In the
present case, when he reflected how widely
spread was the disorder among the pupils,

and what a terror Mr. Yalentine Gaunt had
become to the Doctor, his scruples vanished.
He resolved to utilize what he conceived to
be his opportunity. First of all, he would
make an attempt to trace the late tenants of
the house opposite, and after that, pay a visit
to the maker of the court wig in Parnassus
Street. In fact, he would henceforth do his
utmost to rid the Doctor of Mr. Valentine
Gaunt.

Sterne began by crossing the street to read
the bills in the windows. They referred
inquirers to the auctioneer's at the corner.
So thither he went next.

CHAPTER 11.

A SUDDEN DEPARTURE.

After repeated failures, Arnold's efforts were
eventually successful. He was engaged for a
very minor part in a very minor theatre.
As he afterwards came to be rather ashamed
of the place where he made his debut perhaps
the less said about it the better ; but it was
at any rate a beginning, which drove M.
Dubarri almost frantic with delight. His
feelings, however, were not entirely disinterested,
for he knew that his mysterious
pupil, who received no letters, and seemed to
have neither friend nor relative, must begetting
towards the end of his resources.

On the night of the first performance, M.
Dubarri — dressed in very baggy trousers,

and a blue frock-coat, showing an immense
amount of shirt-front, with his gold-rimmed
pince-nez dangling outside, and a flower, in
addition to the ribbon of the Legion of
Honour, in his button-hole — occupied a seat
in the front row of the stalls and applauded
his pupil most vociferously. His enthusiasm
was so catching that many others began to
follow his example, and it was singular that
his applause always found an immediate
echo in one corner of the gallery.

But M. Dubarri did not stop here. During
the intervals he spoke loudly to those around
him about the marked ability shown by that
rising young actor, Mr. Arnold Cressingham,
It was a great pity, he said, that he should
have been cast for so small a part, but no
doubt his merits would be speedily recognized
by the managers of West End houses. Lest
it should be supposed that he was acting in
collusion with the man he was praising, he
sent his card round to Arnold, with the hope
that he might have the honour of an interview
after the performance.

The meeting at the stage-door was affectionate
enough to impress the beholders.
Indeed, they were rather inclined to laugh,
Ashen M. Dubarri rushed forward and clasped
Arnold to his breast. The latter did not like
the situation at all. He struggled to get
free, but, big fellow as he was, could not
release himself from the grasp of the active
little Frenchman, who was all the time calling
two languages to testify to the ability of this
phenomenal young actor. On the road home
he insisted upon embracing Arnold at frequent
intervals, and often stopped to shake hands.

There was a quiet little public house next
door to the auctioneer's at the corner of
Momus Street, and here M. Dubarri purchased
an eighteen-penny bottle of claret, which he
carried home with as much tender pride as if
it had been his own baby. He was disappointed
that Arnold did not show the same
childlike enthusiasm on the subject, but he
soon got over that, for he was pretty well
accustomed to Arnold's manner by this
time.

They found supper awaiting them. It
consisted of a Bologna sausage, part of an
American cheese, a plate of onions, and some
butter and bread. From his lordly way of
placing the bottle of claret on the table, M.
Dubarri evidently considered it a sumptuous
feast. Before they began, he again embraced
Arnold, and after that felt better able to
attack the Bologna sausage.

Now," said M. Dubarri, carefully laying
his knife and fork in the same straight line,
with their extremities resting upon the
opposite edge of his plate, " pass your glass,
my friend."

He always filled Arnold's glass himself,
not from stinginess, for he was a very
generous old fellow when he had any money,
which was not often, but from fear lest the
precious bottle should be shaken. While he
was pouring out the wine, his forehead was
wrinkled up like the sand on the sea-shore,
and even his funny little snub nose seemed to
join with his other features in an expression
of intense concentration. When his task was

completed, he heaved a deep sigh, smiled ashe
took up his glass, and then his keen small
eyes blinked pleasantly through it.

I drink to you, my friend," said M.
Dubarri, holding his glass aloft. He took a
few sips and smacked his lips. " Ah, ha ! "
he cried. '' It is good — eh ? "
'' Excellent."

'' I think so. I am a judge, you know.
Yes, I flatter myself I know a little about
wine, and this is very good. It has no need
of the bush, as your English proverb says. I
drink to you again, my friend. Success !"

'• And money," drawled Arnold, twirling
his moustache.

That is sure, for they go together. Ah !
you will be rich ; never fear. Your acting
was superb, magnificent. Sapinstil it electrified
the house. The applause was immense, I do
assure you."

I noticed that it came chiefly from the
front row of the stalls," said Arnold, slowly
lifting his grey eyes to M. Dubarri's, and
reflecting the smile that he saw therein.

It was, however, rather a dubious smile in
M. Dubarri's case. He was blinking in a
puzzled way at the phlegmatic young man
whom he had not yet learnt to understand —
Avhora he never would understand if they
were to live together for a century.

Your friends will be pleased at your
success," he said, watching keenly.

No doubt."

'J You will write to tell them ? "

Why should I, when they can read about
it in the newspapers ? "

*' You are a strange fellow, Mr. Arnold.
It is difficult to get to the bottom of you. I
am frank, you see, as usual. Eh bien ! you
are clever, I think, and will succeed. My
friend, I shake you by the hand." Whereupon
M. Dubarri precipitated himself across
the room.

They had many of these pleasant little
suppers, for the Professor seemed to think
that he could never do enough for his successful
pupil, whose very reticence about himself
was an attraction. He was continually

bringing in some delicacy under his arm, or
else in his coat-pocket. Sometimes, as a rare
treat, it was a tin of pate che foie gras sometimes
a pound of ham, sometimes a pint of
shrimps ; but the parcel was always produced
with the same air of important mystery and
opened with the same exuberant delight.
Arnold being disappointingly undemonstrative,
M. Dubarri never failed to pronounce
each article to be good, and himself to be a
judge of it.

These were not unhappy days ; indeed, it
was hard to be unhappy in M. Dubarri's company,
though be had little enough to laugh
about, goodness knows. He was one of those
who can make a respectable show on almost
nothing, a secret possessed by none but
Frenchmen, and only by a few of them ; but
as he was very reserved about money matters,
it may safely be said that they were at a
terribly low ebb. Of course, he got a few
pounds from Arnold ; then he had an occasional
pupil or so ; and he did a little quiet
trading in cheap jewelry on his own account.

But he never would talk about his means —
always turned the subject ; and if any of his
compatriots, paying him a friendly visit,
happened to be in a desponding mood, threw
himself body and soul into the task of cheering
them up.

The only time when he ever displayed the
least uneasiness, was in the presence of Mr.
Yalentine Gaunt, who seemed to be playing
simultaneously upon two very similar instruments,
the one in London and the other in
Puddleton. He had a masterful way of
marching into No. 13, Momus Street, just ashe
did into the Rectory ; from his general
behaviour he might have been taken for the
owner of both houses. Neither of the rightful
owners had the courage to object to what
irritated them exceedingly ; both met his
advances by retreating before him ; and so
he proceeded, step by step, to a position of
authority, which was very perplexing to
outsiders.

He and Arnold had been formally introduced
by M. Dubarri, who was unaware of

their previous acquaintance, and they had
since been on very friendly terms. Several
letters had been handed by the one to the
other, but always in the passage when no one
was about. In this way Arnold had contrived
to keep up a correspondence with
Hebe, who had pardoned his long silence,
because — well, simply because she was in love
with him.

It is unnecessary to emphasize his faults,
they are so conspicuous, but most of them
had a common origin in indolent selfishness.
It had led him to disregard the feelings of
his father and sister, partly, it must be said,
because he compared them with his own, and
so underestimated their depth ; it had led
him to think that Hebe would patiently
endure his silence while he was working to
bring about their marriage, not by gentle
persuasion, but in direct opposition to the
Doctor's wish ; and it was leading him now
to deceive M. Dubarri by his pretended
ignorance of Mr. Valentine Gaunt. However,
trouble is a tolerably effective cure

for selfishness, and few of us escape that intime.


Mr. Valentine Graunt was very pleased
when he heard of Arnold's success ; he made
a high-flown speech in which he congratulated
the young actor warmly. There was an odd
smile on his face : a smile that attracted no
particular notice from Arnold, but puzzled
M. Dubarri, who took the speech as a compliment
to himself and listened, blinking delightedly.
It seemed to hide something — to
be continually under restraint lest it should
break into unmethodical significance ; and
this it did as soon as Mr. Valentine Gaunt
found himself alone in the street. But several
months later, at the close of the pantomime
season, he was not quite so hearty in his
congratulations upon learning that Arnold
had been promoted to the position of a
walking gentleman " — or, rather, a footman
on the boards of the Parnassus. It struck
him that the young actor — who, notwithstanding
his impassiveness, showed considerable
ability in reflecting the feelings, just ashe

did the smiles, of others — was getting on
a little too rapidly ; he was not certain how
matters would look from the front. So, after
pointing out that his method of " slow and
sure " was the hest in the long run, he went
back to Puddleton to think it over.

Of course, M. Dubarri was in the wildest
glee. He again sat in the front row of the
stalls and applauded the footman vehemently ;
again embraced him at the stage-door ; and
again led him rapturously home to an inviting
little supper, part of which was the inevitable
bottle of claret. There is not the smallest
doubt that he considered it his own triumph
quite as much as his jDupil's ; in fact, when
Arnold failed to propose M. Dubarri's health,
M. Dubarri, after waiting with an expectant
air, which at length yielded to a look of
gentle reproach, modestly got up and proposed
his own.

For the next few weeks he was in high
feather ; and then the uneasiness which had
been alluded to, seemed to grow upon him.
He became extremely fidgety, trotting about

the room without any definite purpose and
all the while casting furtive glances at
Arnold, as if he was trying to make up his
mind to some decisive step. It was one afternoon,
while he was sitting in the arm-chair
and Arnold on the couch opposite, the two
being in an unusually confidential mood, that
he announced his intention.

What do you think of Mr. Valentine
Gaunt ? " he asked cautiously.

Well, really, M. Dubarri, you have done
all my thinking so long that I have quite got
out of the way of it."

You plaisantez toujours," exclaimed M.
Dubarri, with a gesture of impatience.
Come, my friend, I shall give you my
opinion, for you know I am frank. You
smile, you big fellow, you. Eh bien ! no
matter. I am not a bad judge of character,
and I tell you this : Mr. Yalentine Graunt is
a good fellow in his way, but between ourselves
he is rather a rascal."
Arnold looked up, but his eyes fell immediately,
and he said nothing.

'' That is right, I do assure you," continued
M. Dubarrl. " He is a heavy ruffian, without
doubt. If I were to look for an English
phrase for him, I should call him a beetle-crushed.
Scrunch — so." He stamped
viciously at the carpet with his heel. " I
think there would not be much left of that
fellow if he had been underneath," added he,
alluding, probably, to some imaginary beetle.
*" Let me advise you one thing, my friend.
If you have a secret, keep it. Never tell it
to Mr. Valentine Gaunt — never — never — or
you may be sorry."

Arnold remembered that Mr. Valentine
Gaunt had used almost the same words of
M. Dubarri.

I have told him something," proceeded
M. Dubarri, coming a little more forward in
his chair, " and I am sorry. He does not
know all, it is true, but he wants to know
more and bothers me. He is a dreadful
fellow, that beetle-crushing Mr. Valentine
Gaunt who creeps upon one like a cat.
Sapristi ! I would escape from him — go away

VOL. II. D

on the sly — leave no tracks, no scent, no
footprints, nothing. I would run away, you
understand, not from fear, of course, but just
to play him a little trick. Ah! That will
be fun, I think. While he is sniffing around
Momus Street, we shall be laughing in our
beards. How he will rage, to be sure ! " At
the thought of such an excellent joke, M.
Dubarri went off into a peal of laughter — a
perfect convulsion it was, shaking him internally
even when no sound was coming
from his lips.

But," said Arnold, '' surely it is a great
deal of trouble for a very little fun."

'' Do you object ? "

Not at all, if you wish it."

'^ You are a good fellow, and I shake you
by the hand," said M. Dubarri, suiting the
action to the word. " Then it is settled ;
we shall go tomorrow. I take this Louse
furnished by the month, you know, and the
month will be finished tomorrow. I have
been to look at another house in the Harrow
Road, Haddington. You will like it, I am

sure. It is snug, that house, far more beautiful
than this. Bah ! this Momus Street is a
dismal place. It gives me the blues every
hour of the day. You will prefer the Harrow
Road — eh ? " he asked, with a look of anxious
interest.

Oh yes, I am sure to do that," replied
Arnold, with easy good-humour. " So we
leave here tomorrow."

Sapristi — hush ! " cried M. Dubarri, excitedly
springing to his feet and clapping his
hand on Arnold's mouth.

Then he ran to the window, which was
slightly open, the weather being warm and
muggy. Arnold looked after him in surprise,
and saw through the aperture a dirty foreign-looking
face with a stubbly grey beard and
half-whining, half-curious expression.

Quay a-t-il, Jacques?" said M. Dubarri
hoarsely.

The reply Arnold did not catch ; nor was
he able to follow any of the conversation that
ensued, carried on as it was in whispers.
Indeed, he did not trouble his head about the

matter, but took up a book and began to
read. Presently, however, he heard the clink
of money, just before the window closed ; and
then M. Dubarri returned to his seat. He
said very little about what had just happened
merely shrugged his shoulders and talked
vaguely about a beggar.

You see, my friends! am frank," he said,
and, with this remark, passed lightly to
another subject.

The next day there was a general exodus
from No. 13, Momus Street. First of all, a
cart carried off the few heavy things belonging
to the Histrionic Professor, who had already
taken the plate off the door ; then the deaf
old housekeeper and the pale-faced servant-girl
followed in a four-wheeler with more
luggage ; and lastly, after an animated dispute
with the landlord, who claimed compensation
for damage to the furniture, but without much
success, M. Dubarri and Arnold in another
four-wheeler with the rest of the things.

M. Dubarri laughed nearly all the way at
the little trick he had played upon Mr.

Valentine Graunt. And it was only an hour
afterwards when the latter and Leonard Sterne
actually appeared upon the scene, as already
described.

CHAPTER III.

AT SIXES AND SEVENS.

Within a short half-hour two persons called
at the auctioneer's, at the corner of Momus
Street. The first was Mr. Valentine Gaunt,
who wanted to know what had become of the
Histrionic Professor, but could not get any
information on the subject ; the second, the
Rev. Leonard Sterne, who learned merely the
name of the late tenant of No. 13, for M.
Dubarri's frankness had not led him to communicate
his future address to anybody in
the neighbourhood.

As it was too late to pursue his inquiries
any further that night, Sterne walked to the
hotel where he was in the habit of staying,
dined there, and afterwards visited one of the

theatres. It was a mere chance that he did
not go to the Parnassus, where he would
have seen and probably recognized Arnold,
in the guise of a footman. The May meetings
were in full swing, and the streets
swarmed with ruddy-faced country gentlemen
in black coats and white ties : a fact that had
perhaps suggested to an enterprising manager
that here was an audience to be catered for.
At any rate, a very clerical piece was being
played at a house close to the Parnassus, and
thither Sterne went, sitting in the dress-circle
among a goodly array of clergymen,
many of whom slept the whole time, the
curates quietly, but the rectors snoring loudly.

Next morning, on his way to the station, he
called at 26, Parnassus Street, which turned
out to be a hairdresser's shop, as he had
expected. It contained a large variety of
wigs and had a decidedly theatrical appearance.


I should be much obliged," said Sterne
with some hesitation, for he felt altogether
out of his element, " if you would kindly tell

me whether you ever sold an old-fashioned
court wig to a Mr. Yalentine Gaunt ? "

Madame Farnienti is away at present,"
replied a smart young woman with bold black
eves and frizzled hair, " but I'll see what I
can do for you, sir." She fetched a bulky
volume and laid it upon the counter. " Is he
one of our regular customers ? " she asked,
smiling, as if she would have enjoyed a
quiet little flirtation with a clergyman in a
tasselled hat.

That I can't say," he said shortly.

Running her finger down a list of names,
she turned over several pages. At length
she looked up and said —

'' Gaunt, I think, was the name you
mentioned. I can't find it here."

'' Mr. Valentine Gaunt," said Sterne, preparing
to depart. " I am sorry to have
given you so much trouble."

I seem to know the name of Valentine,
but I'm sure I never heard the name of
Gaunt. If he has been one of our regular
customers, perhaps Madame Farnienti might

remember him, for I have not been here
long."

Oh, thank you, it doesn't much matter,"
he said ; and left the shop.

It could scarcely be called a disappointment.
Sterne had had no definite object in making
these inquiries and consequently had not
looked forward to any definite result. The
truth of the matter was, he did not know
what to do to help his friend, so he was
ready to turn over any stone that caught his
eye.

He encountered Mr. Valentine Graunt hovering
about at the station. They both travelled
in the same train, but in different compartments,
Sterne going third-class for the sake
of economy, which had now become more
imperative than ever, and Mr. Valentine
Graunt first-class, for his own comfort. When
they arrived at Stilbury, the dog-cart that
the latter had left at the Cygnet was awaiting
him at the station, and he was conducted toit
by a couple of obsequious porters, one
carrying his bag and the other his rug.

Sterne, on the other hand, was allowed to go
off to his fly alone. So it was clear that the
dwellers in this dismal little town had a very
fair notion of how matters were going in
Puddleton.

Upon his return, Mr. Yalentine Gaunt
made a slight change in his tactics. Instead
of denouncing Sterne to the Doctor, he said
nothing about what had happened in London,
and^took to " damning him with faint praise."
Instead of demanding his dismissal, he set to
work to undermine his influence with the
pupils, he himself keeping carefully in the
background. This method, he felt sure, would
sooner or later bring about a catastrophe.

It certainly drove the unfortunate Doctor
to distraction. The band that nightly paraded
the village was bad enough in a place
supposed to be devoted to work ; the coach
was another nuisance which would have been
suppressed had it not been a present from the
Countess of Belgravia ; the fox-terriers were
such an absorbing care to their owners, that
books were apt to be neglected ; but all these

sunk into insignificance beside the fact that
Sterne was losing his old power of maintaining
discipline. It was a strange thing, which
perplexed the Doctor almost as much as it
troubled him.

Some very disorderly conduct had taken
place among Sterne's classes, and matters
were growing desperate, when several of the
older and more thoughtful among his pupils
came to his assistance. It was a shame, they
said, to worry a man who even gave up
many of his leisure hours to help them ; and,
moreover, they were very shortly going up
for their examination, and did not intend to
have their chances of success spoilt by a few
selfish fellows who didn't care whether they
passed or not. This argument, which they
showed themselves ready to enforce if necessary,
was effective in restoring order for a
time, but it did not add to Sterne's popularity
with the unruly spirits, and, feeling themselves
to be under Mr. Valentine Gaunt's
protection, they still continued to make occasional
sallies.

A curious incident occurred on the day
before the candidates went up to London to
face the Civil Service Examiners.

Mr. "Valentine Gaunt was giving the last
nervous polish to his French class in the
sitting-room of the Hive — a comfortably-furnished
room, with a window at each end
and a long table in the centre, round which
the pupils were sitting, lounging, standing,
and smoking. Any stranger peering through
the hazy atmosphere might have taken it fora
free-and-easy club, engaged in discussing
some congenial topic. Plantagenet, who was
not equal to any continuous effort, was drawing
caricatures of those around him ; while
Heavisides, who was present as a mere matter
of courtesy, was placidly beaming by his side.
Most of the others, however, were really
working, Philip Strathclyde among the
number. The Professor himself was standing
on the hearth-rug, smoking his big
meerschaum, and letting drop a precious
word at intervals — '' the latest tip," in fact.

'' I wish particularly," he said, '' to direct

your attention to this French passage, for it
contains — ■ — "

At this moment the Doctor's head popped
through the door —

Ah ! " he said, smiling pleasantly all
round, " this is what I like. Yes, this is
really what I do like. Not a sound ; not a
murmur. Work — work — work ! A capital
place for work is Puddleton. Are you satisfied
with them, Mr. Gaunt ? "

"Quite," croaked the Professor, folding
his arms. " My method has been singularly
successful."

Yes, yes, I feel sure of that," interrupted
the Doctor, quick to perceive that he was
threatened with a speech. " You look in fine
condition, Merridale ; and you, too, Philip,
though I did feel a little anxious about you
at one time. It's one comfort to know that
we are sending you all fit to the post."

The Professor went on with his French, to
which the Doctor — only his head and the
Yankee hat showing — stood listening, with a
very wise face, a trifle on one side, and with

his little twinkling eyes as full of interest as
if he understood every word. Presently he
saw his chance. Tattlemaine, who was
thoughtfully whittling a stick, was requested
to put it away, and replied that he would ina
luoinent.

Tout-de-suite,'' cried the Doctor ; and,
having exhausted half of his French vocabulary,
was on the point of vanishing when he
caught sight of a sketch that Plantagenet
had just made of him.

It was a spasmodic chuckle from Heavisides
that drew his attention to it. Dashing: into
the room, he seized the paper, tore it into
atoms, and flung them into the grate. The
whole thing was done without a word. It
was so sudden as to take everybody completely
by surprise. They did not even know whether
he had acted in anger, for with one of those
sharp transitions that came so naturally to
him he began to chaff Heavisides about getting
thin from overwork.

'' I should be very pleased," he said, moving
towards the door, "if all my young friends

who are going up for their examination tomorrow,
would come and have dinner with
me at the Rectory this evening at half-past
seven."

"Thank you, Dr. Copingstone," cried a
chorus of voices.

Before the noise had subsided, he was
flying along the street.

Well," murmured Heavisides, looking
wonderingly round the table, " he's a queer
old boss, I'm jiggered if he ain't."

'' You don't like being laughed at yourself,
my boy," said Merridale.

But," put in Silverspoon, " it wasn't a
caricature. It was an excellent portrait."

"• Plantagenet," said Mr. Yalentine Gaunt,
who had watched this little scene with a
strange smile, " will you draw a portrait of
the Doctor for me ? "

'' Certainly, Mr. Graunt," replied Lord
Ernest, flattered by the request.

He had a knack of catching a likeness and
transferring it to paper. It was one of the
things that he could do well without much

trouble, and he consequently delighted in
doing it. In a short time he had drawn an
excellent pen-and-ink sketch of the Doctor,
the Yankee hat and Wellington boots being
recognizable anywhere.

Mr. Valentine Gaunt paid the artist a very
high compliment. Then he carefully folded
up the paper and put it in his pocket. And
after the big meerschaum had been filled and
lighted, the lecture was resumed.

From beginning to end, the affair was
most incomprehensible to Philip, though he
was a sharp lad, and had already guessed
more than was generally suspected. Still, he
knew no reason for connecting the Doctor's
dislike to being photographed with his tearing
up a pen-and-ink sketch. Sterne did so when
told what had happened, but Philip could not
see that either circumstance had anything
to do with Mr. Valentine Gaunt, whom he
regarded without any tangible reason as the
origin of all the troubles in the village.
He was inclined to ascribe the Doctor's act
to eccentricity, resulting from worry and

this made bim all the more anxious about
Nellie.

He did not believe that she had changed
towards him ; he did not believe that she
ever would change towards him, and yet he
had an uneasy feeling that she had purposely
avoided him ever since their meeting in the
meadow near the old mill. At any rate, they
never had been alone in one another's company
since that day — the day of the cabinet
council— when Nellie went to the bookcase
and took down the family Bible, and it had
not been Philip's fault that they had not met,
for the young lover had lurked in the most
likely places, and simply besieged the Rectory.
It was no use, however ; Nellie seemed to
have altered her hours for going to the
different cottages, and when he was waiting
for her in one place, she was always in
another. It puzzled him a great deal, and
frightened him a little, simply because he did
not know what he had to encounter ; but he
soon took heart again, for this bright-eyed
lad had one of those happy dispositions that

VOL, IT. E

can almost be said to take a delight in overcoming
difficulties.

Once or twice lie caught a glimpse of
Nellie on horseback, with the Doctor. He
saw that when her father flourished his crop,
she bowed her dainty head, and he took off
his hat in return ; but on none of these occasions
was he close enough to see her pretty
face, which might have given him some clue.
Then, as the days went on, he determined
to lie in wait for her in tie churchyard.
While she was walking by the side of her
Sunday-school class, he could easily find an
opportunity of speaking to her. But here again
he was doomed to disappointment. The
children entered the church without Nellie,
and it was not until the bell was on the point
of stopping that she appeared with her father.
The blue eyes were fixed upon the ground,
but she seemed to feel instinctively that Philip
was standing by one of the moss-grown tombstones
near the ancient bell tower, for she
blushed deeply. Before she passed in, she
looked at him and smiled — a sweet smile, but

oh, SO full of sadness that he yearned to
spring forward and clasp her ia his arms.

He had a passionate desire to learn her
troubles and fling himself against them. If
only be knew what they were, he felt sure
he could conquer them, but it was so dreadfully
hard to be kept in the dark like this.
It became unbearable at last, and he dashed
up to the Rectory, rang the bell, and asked
to see Nellie. The lad's excitement was not
lost upon Higgins, part of whose business it
was to keep his eyes open and his mouth shut.
He carried the message to the Doctor, and
presently returned with the reply : " Miss
Nellie is not at home, sir." These were very
dreadful words to Philip, who did not know
that they emanated from the Doctor, and
was certain that he had seen Nellie at one of
the windows.

The only thing to be done was to lay his
trouble before Leonard Sterne and ask his
advice. And this Philip did.

Patience, Philip, patience ! " said Sterne.
You want to do everything in too much of

UBRARV

UNIVERSITY OF lUmOiii

a hurry. Lucy will soon find out what is
the matter ; some fancy, no doubt ; nothing
to be really alarmed at, if only you can
manage to persuade the Doctor."

''Oh, dear me, I'll do that. Wait till I
have passed my examination and am no
longer a pupil. His chief objection to me
will then fall to the ground."

That's true," said Sterne kindly. " But
I don't want you to go rushing against some
nasty obstacle and coming to grief over it.
We could send you to Nice for broken health,
or to Bologna for a broken fortune, but the
watering-place that will mend a broken heart
has yet to be discovered. Festina lente, Philip,
is a good maxim in love as well as in everything
else."

This conversation occurred on the day
preceding that on which Philip was invited
to dine at the Rectory. A great dread had
been growing upon him that he would have
to go away without getting an explanation
from Nellie. It would be unendurable, he
felt, to go through his examination with

some terrible thing banging over bim. But
at the Doctor's word be rushed to the other
extreme. He was so excited that be could dono
more work for the rest of the day. Of
course, a dinner-party was not the best place
for a private explanation, but then be and
Nellie would manage it somehow. What
could not love do ?

Tbe pace at wbicb be drove the Manor
dog-cart that evening called forth many remonstrances
from the groom, an old man wbo
bad been with the late squire from bis boyhood.
It was not merely excitement ; Pbilip
bad spent so much time upon dressing that
very little remained for the drive to the
Eectory. However, as it happened, be was
much more punctual than some of the others
who lived close at band.

When the dog-cart pulled up in front of
the clematis-covered porch, the door was
immediately opened by Higgins, wbo stood
in the centre of the lamp-light, in a watchful
attitude, bis white bead slightly bowed — the
very picture of polished meekness, admirably

set among the paintings in the large hall
behind him. There was a fresh breeze from
the direction of the sea, and Camelback wore
a cloudy coronet, but overhead the sky was
bright and clear. So Philip told the groom
that he would walk back ; after which, he was
ushered into the drawing-room.

He was conscious of a deeper colour in his
cheeks as he advanced to shake hands with
Nellie ; he knew that he was trembling and
felt angry with himself for doing so ; he
knew also that the others were watching this
meeting with the keenest interest. And this
knowledge it was that enabled him to get
through it as if he were speaking to an
ordinary acquaintance. Though a bad hand
at anything approaching deception, he was
surprised how naturally it came to him. After
a few words with the Doctor, who was
making himself singularly pleasant to everybody
in turn, he slipped away to a quiet corner
and began to talk at random to Tattlemaine.

Nellie wore, as Philip afterwards explained
to his cousin, " a light blue silk dress, with

some sort of gauzy stuff round the neck." Asa
matter of fact, the dress of which this unobservant
young man gave such a miserably
insufficient description, had been specially
made for this very occasion, and cost a sum
that caused the Doctor to pull rather a wry
face. Nellie looked extremely pretty in it,
and not so pale as she would have done in
anything else.

At the same time, Philip was pained to
observe signs, perhaps not of actual ill-health,
but, at any rate, of trouble. The pouting lips
seemed pinched ; he could scarcely see a
dimple in the soft cheeks ; and once, when
the wondering blue eyes met his, they had
the same sad smile. Still, he knew she loved
him ; he save she was wearing the pearl ring
he had bought for her : it was happiness to
be near her, even if he could not speak to her
yet ; and no doubt his chance would come
before it was all over. When the gong
sounded, the Doctor sent Nellie in to dinner
with Viscount Silverspoon, while, as if to
make amends, he playfully took Philip by

the arm, the two bringing uj) the rear. Philip,
however, scarcely appreciated this arrangement,
for it placed him at the fjxrtliest possible
distance from Nellie at taljle. Bat he could
not help joining in the general merriment,
the Doctor kept up such a constant flow of
anecdotes, chiefly connected with horses.

He was a marvellous old man, this grey-headed
clergyman, tormented day and night
byhis anxiety to find that missing son, upon
whom all his hopes rested ; forced to ceaseless
activity by the necessity for keeping the
whole of his cumbrous machinery in motion ;
and not knowing which way to turn to escape
the heartless scoundrel whose foot was already
upon his neck, and who was daily treading
him lower and lower in the dust. No doubt
his troubles were entirely of his own making,
or, in some cases, his own imagining, but
they were not, on that account, more endurable.
Sitting at the head of the table, his
tall thin figure as upright as a poplar, his
small sharp-featured face full of pleasant
animation, and his keen little eyes twinkling

with sly fun the Doctor kept these young
fellows in a continual roar of laughter.
Judging by appearances, it was impossible to
conceive that he had a care in the world ; and
yet, at this very moment, the thought would
force itself into his mind, that when these
pupils were gone, he might never be able to
replace them : that the one thing on which
he had set his whole ambition was in imminent
peril.

The dinner was excellent ; well chosen,
well cooked, and well served. None of the
guests was afterwards heard to suggest any
improvement ; which is saying a good deal,
many of them being confirmed grumblers in
this respect. They even praised the wine,
though here the Doctor had exercised a little
discretion, and had brought out only an
inferior quality,, which he thriftily kept for
these occasions. The youthful guests, he
argued, would not know the difference between
good wine and bad ; they would believe it to
be precisely what they were told it was ; and
this they did, sipping their claret and champagne

with the greatest gusto. They had
been told that he had one of the best cellars
in the county, and fancied that some of it was
now before them. Tattlemaine even went sofar
as to compliment the Doctor upon his
claret, and the look in the Doctor's face ashe
listened was wonderfully droll.

As soon as Nellie had retired, Silverspoon
made a short speech about the happy days
that, he had spent at Puddleton, though he
modestly threw in a doubt as to whether they
might not see him back again. He concluded
by asking them all to drink to the Doctor.

And an end to his physic," added the
Doctor himself; whereat there was much
laughter. Of course, it was one of his stock
jokes ; unless he had had them cut-and-dry,
he could not possibly have kept the fun
going, when his own mind was so distracted.

When his health had been drunk, he replied
in a light cheery tone at first, but his voice
faltered at the mention of the dear young
friends who were leaving him. As in nearly
everything that he said and did, there was

some pretence and some sincerity in his
words, but at alae moment he persuaded himself
there was no pretence at alL In conclusion,
he proposed the toast of the evening :
"The Examiners — 'confound their knavish
tricks ! ' "

During the wild applause that followed,
Higgins entered with cigars and cigarettes,
which the Doctor always provided on these
occasions, though he himself detested the
smell of tobacco smoke.

As the evening wore on, Philip was distressed
to find that there was to be no
adjournment to the drawing-room, and this
became manifest when at length the party
broke up. The very fates seemed to be
fighting against him. His heart sank like
lead at the thought of going away without
speaking to Nellie, lie had hopefully looked
forward to this opportunity, and now it was
gone. When he stood with his noisy friends
in the hall, he felt supremely miserable.

It was now discovered that a chancre for

the worse had come over the night. The sky

,^ht. T

was a black mass of wind-driven clouds, and
the rain was descending in torrents. This
mattered little to those who lived in the
village, but Philip, having told the groom
not to return for him, had nearly a couple of
miles to walk. He was angrily declaring
that the man might have had more sense,
when the Doctor appeared upon the scene.
Philip, he said, must not think of going to
the Manor in such a storm of rain ; why, he
might catch a cold that would utterly spoil
his chance of passing his examination ; a bed
would be ready for him in one of the spare
rooms within five minutes, and there he must
sleep.

Philip proved very tractable. He was
delighted at the thought of spending the night
under the same roof as Nellie ; her nearness
to him must, he felt, sweeten his dreams.
Whether it did or not, he saw that his opportunity
could scarcely fail to come after all ;
and thinking that he would rise the first thing
in the morning to have it out with Nellie,
dear sweet thing that she was, he fell asleep.

CHAPTER lY.

THE Examination.

It was nearly eight o'clock when Philip stole
quietly downstairs. His excitement had
brought on a reaction ; he felt a sense of
depression which was increased by the
quietude and strangeness of the house, and
also by the rain that was still pouring heavily
without. The pictured hall wore quite a
different aspect in the cold grey light, while
the wind whistled around the porch as if it
were determined to get in.

Higgins, who was carefully brushing the
Doctor's hat, put it down when Philip appeared,
and advanced to wish him a polite
good morning. Standing in an attitude of
respectful attention, he suggested that the
study would be the most comfortable room to

wait in ; and thither Philip went, merely to
get rid of him. When he found that Nellie
was not there, he very soon dodged into the
drawing-room. Wishing to surprise her, he
walked as stealthily as Mr. Yalentine Graunt,
but the eager look died out of his bright
young face as soon as he discovered the room
to be empty. Perhaps she was in the conservatory.
He advanced on tiptoe and peeped
in. Yes. There she was, looking as sweet
and fair as the rosebud over which she was
bending.

Nellie," he said softly.

Philip," she exclaimed, starting and
blushing.

Yes, it's me, Nellie. Are you glad to pee
me t

Yes and No, Philip," she replied, stealing
a sad shy glance at him' over the tiny hand
which she had raised to her mouth as if to
guard some secret.

After a stare of pained bewilderment, he
started forward with outstretched hands,
saying, " Darling, what does it all mean ? "

I don't know who I am," she replied,
shrinking away from him. 'don't touch
me ; please don't — don't."

Don't — know — who — you — are ! "

'^ There, Philip, I didn't mean to say that.
This is a dreary world, full of trouble and
misery. But perhaps it will all come right ;
you always say it will. Oh, Philip, do you
really think it will ? "

'' Surely, my pet, surely. Why, dear me,
what are trees meant for but to cut down ?
And what are troubles ? "

Well, I hope so," she interrupted, plucking
nervously at the rosebud. " But you
must go away now."

Go away now ! " He could only echo
the dreadful words. A shiver passed through
him as he stood there blankly staring at her.

'' Nellie," he faltered presently, '' I am
going away to-day — up to London — for my
examination — and I shan't be back for three
weeks, and there is no knowing what may
happen in three weeks — or in a railway
journey."

The shapely head with its masses of dark
hair was bent down, and the face that he
loved to look upon was turned away from
him. He could see a tremulous swaying of
the slender figure, but he had no suspicion
that Nellie was sobbing.

After a pause there came a flint : " Bless
you, my Philip."

i' Is that all ? " he asked reproachfully.
And then a sudden fury seized upon him.
His hands were clenched, and his tones fierce,
as he cried, " Has that man Gaunt done this
thing ? If he has "

But here the Doctor dashed into the 
; so they both had to compose their
faces and go out to meet him. Doubtless,
Higgins had told him that they were together
in the conservatory, but he showed not the
smallest sign of displeasure. That was not
his way at all ; he loved to circumvent, but
he saw no good in knocking his head against
accomplished facts and making himself and
everybody else uncomfortable to no purpose.
He kissed Nellie very tenderly, and shook

hands with Philip ; and in a few minutes the
young people were surprised to find themselves
laughing. The weather never seemed
to make any impression on the Doctor's iron
frame. He was very nearly as cheerful at
breakfast as he had been at dinner on the
previous night, and his good spirits were so
hearty and so contagious, that it was not
until Philip was on his way to the Manor,
without having had any explanation from
Nellie, that he began to feel astonished at
himself

It was an exciting and, to some extent, a
melancholy day in Puddleton. There was
very little work done, for those who were left
behind wanted to see how their friends looked
on the eve of taking a frightful leap across
or into the Rubicon, maliciously set in their
path by those desperadoes, the Civil Service
Examiners.

While each vehicle was being piled with
luggage, a huge amount in many cases, an
anxious group stood around ; and when it
drove off through the street of creeper-clad

VOL. II. F

cottages, with here and there a smock-frocked
labourer hoeing in his little garden, and
Camelback peering out of the mist, there was
always a ringing cheer. The weather was
still very gloomy, but the rain having cleared
off, nearly everybody was out of doors.
Heavisides went to bid each of his departing
friends good-bye, and as he walked, he
smoked his pipe and strummed placidly on
his banjo. But his smile was a little troubled,
and he gazed with embarrassing earnestness
at every one who was considered likely to be
successful, as if he would thus discover the
way it should be done.

The last to drive through the village was
Philip Strathclyde. They gave him a hearty
cheer, and so he, too, went on his way, Puddleton
being left in a temporary state of
despondency.

Most of the Doctor's candidates went to
their own homes in London. For the others,
the whole of one house — a lodging-house ina
quiet street near the scene of operations —
had been engaged and placed in charge of

Mr. Jostler, who led a particularly anxious
three weeks there. Still, he got a certain
amount of enjoyment out of it. More than
once he announced that he had a small suggestion
to offer, but as he never succeeded in
getting to the end of it, no one knew what
it was about. That he realized the importance
of his position, there can be no doubt, for he
spent most of his time in walking about the
rooms, stroking his long beard, and, when
the opportunity occurred, making speeches
to the candidates who had just returned for
meals from Burlington House, and were
clamorous to learn whether their answers
were correct.

Philip was one of those under Mr. Jostler's
charge, but he certainly gave no trouble, for
he was too bent upon passing his examination
to do anything but work — very nervously at
first, but with more confidence afterwards.
The first few papers he '' floored " in grand
style, according to his own account. He
answered every word of the French grammar,
not without an uneasy feeling of surprise. But

when it came to the French translation, a
glance at the paper brought an angry flush
to his cheeks ; he hastily rose from his seat
and strode out of the room. So far as Philip
Strathclyde was concerned, the examination
was at an end.

The others, who had often enviously
watched his pen flying across the paper,
looked after him with amazement. It was
the most startling collapse they had ever
witnessed. Surely he had not found himself
unable to scramble through the translation
somehow ! It certainly was difficult ; at
least, such was the opinion of Plantagenet
and Silverspoon as they hurried back to
question Philip.

'' I couldn't make head or tail of some
parts," observed Plantagenet, with a puzzled
look. " What the deuce is the meaning of
preoccupied graves ' ? Some allusion to
body-snatching, I suppose ; but I'm hanged
if I could make it fit in neatly."

Preoccupied graves ! " exclaimed Silver-spoon.
'^ What was the French ? "

'' Here it is," replied Plantagenet, producing
the paper, " Des graves preoccupations''

I thought that was * grave preoccupation
"

But what's the meaning of that ? "

Goodness knows, but I'm sure it's right."

Hang it all ! " cried Plantagenet. " Then
I'm ploughed for a moral."

When Silverspoon had finished laughing
at his friend, he asked : " But what did you
make of that odd passage about a race
between the Atlantic and a hippopotamus ? "

*' A what ? " demanded Plantagenet, in
some astonishment.

A race between the-atlantic and a hippopotamus,
but I'm not quite certain about the
hippopotamus."

Turn it u|) and let us have a look at it."

Silverspoon pointed to the words, 'recourse
entre Atlanta et Hippomene!' Plantagenet
stopped in the street to roar with
laughter.

Why," he explained at length, " don't
you remember Sterne telling us about a fellow

who ran a race with a girl, and won by
chucking apples at her ? Well, he was called
Hippomenes and she Atlanta."

Confound it ! I suppose I'm ploughed
too," said Silverspoon. " I call it a scandalous
shame to shove classics into a French
paper."

These words brought the unfortunate
couple to the door of Mr. Jostler's temporary
abode.

They found Philip standing at the 
window, looking dismally at the
monotonous row of houses opposite, with a
hansom crawling along the street, and a
piano-organ performing in the gutter for the
benefit of a solitary shoe-black ; not a very
cheery prospect. Philip turned round to
ask his friends how they had got on, but he
refused to answer any questions about himself.
His behaviour struck them as very
singular. They were inclined to wonder
whether, as the Doctor had feared, he had
not overworked himself, and so become a
little queer in the head. " Probably," he

said, *^ they would know all in time, but he
could not explain his reasons at present."
And with this they were obliged to be
content.

Being now a gentleman at large, Philip
felt at liberty to amuse himself. He went
that evening to the Parnassus and sat in the
front row of the stalls. The theatre was
badly ventilated and the piece uninteresting,
otherwise Philip would not have got such
a good seat. The result was that though he
did not actually fall asleep, he became very
drowsy.

Presently he was startled at hearing a
voice that sounded strangely familiar to his
ears. He felt sure that it was Arnold
Copingstone's. Fancying that he must have
been dreaming, he rubbed his eyes and stared
at the stage, which was occupied by a family
party and a footman. Had he seen the latter
before he had heard him, he might have had
some difficulty in recognizing Nellie's brother
in the liveried flunkey with powdered hair,
but those drawling tones set all doubt at rest.

It was an astounding discovery, for Philip
had supposed Arnold to be at Oxford. It
was also a very dreadful discovery in many
ways. Naturally enough, it affected Philip
most keenly, in so far as it concerned his and
Nellie's prospects. He saw that it had placed
a terrible obstacle before them, and guessed
that the Doctor was already aware of it,
which would account for his opposition to
their marriage. It was the Doctor's ambition,
he knew, to build up a mighty establishment
which should endure generation after generation
; but how could this be done now ?
There was only one way, and that a poor
one ; by the marriage of NelHe to some able
tutor, who would undertake the management.

Philip, as we know, was partly right and
partly wrong in his conclusion. Though the
Doctor had long been acquainted with
Arnold's disappearance, he had no idea as to
what had become of him, and still continued
his efforts for finding him. He clung desperately
to the hope of putting matters back in
the old groove before it was discovered they

lead departed from it. When the time came
for him to learn that this could never be,
then indeed it would go hard with him.

At the conclusion of the performance,
Philip asked his way to the stage-door, and
there he met Arnold, who greeted him as if
their meeting were a matter of course, and
contained no element out of the common.

He spoke to Philip as if they had only just
parted from one another. This, more than
anything else, tended to bring Philip back to
a calmer frame of mind.

Very little in the way of explanation was
said in the street, which was full of bustle
and noise. But, at Philip's suggestion, they
went off together to a neighbouring restaurant,
and had supper in a brilliantly-lighted room
on the first floor, with mirrors all round the
walls, and different couples sitting at the
little tables. The two friends occupied a
table in a corner near one of the windows.

After having exacted a pledge of secrecy,
Arnold narrated his adventures since leaving
Puddleton. There were only three things

that he omitted to mention : his theatrical
nom-de-guerre^ which it never occurred to
Philip was other than Copingstone ; his
present address, which Philip never thought
of asking for, since Arnold was always to be
found at the Parnassus ; and his meeting
with Mr. Valentine Gaunt. He concluded
with an amusing account of M. Dubarri.

Philip tried hard to induce him to communicate
with the Doctor, but without the
slightest effect. No, he replied, he would
not do that until he had attained complete
independence.

Then," said Philip, earnestly, " mayn't I
tell Nellie ? "

'' A woman ! " said Arnold, raising his eyes
to reflect the smile that he saw in his friend's
face.

"Not yet," put in Philip, in extenuation of
Nellie's crime.

'' How old is she ? " asked the brother.

Nineteen ; and before she is twenty she
will be my wife — I hope," added he, suddenly
remembering this last difficulty.

Is that matter for congratulation ? "

You old humbug, Arnold ! When you
and Hebe are tied up in a bundle, see if I
don't chaff you."

It's not a thing to joke about, I can tell
you. When that bundle, as you call it, is
tossing along the matrimonial billows, it
must sink if we can't swim together, for we
shall be tied up too closely to be able to swim
separately. Marriage is a very awful thing,
Philip. Upon my word, when a fellow comes
to look at it seriously "

Which you never did in your life. But
really, Arnold, may I tell Nellie ? She is so
terribly anxious. Just a word, at any rate,
to say that you are safe and well."

'' Will you guarantee that she keeps my
secret ? "

From her father ? " exclaimed Philip,
who felt sure that he would never get Nellie
to make any such promise, and now bitterly
repented having tied himself down.

I'll tell you what I'll do, Philip," said
Arnold, dropping the knife he had been

playing with ; " I'll write to her. Will that
satisfy you ? "

Yes, if you do it at once ; this very
night."

Of course, Philip knew he was hastening
the very thing that he dreaded, hut then he
had Nellie's happiness to consider, to say
nothing of the Doctor's. Besides, he could
not bear the idea of continually facing a
terrible uncertainty. He wanted to know
what he had to meet, and so to prepare for
it. Even if it cut Nellie and her father
deeply, it would be far better to have it over
and done with as soon as possible.

Philip returned to Puddleton on the following
day. Some unfortunates had already
arrived there, and others kept dropping in
during the week. It is scarcely necessary
to say that Plantagenet and Silverspoon were
among the number ; so also were Merridale
and Tattlemaine. They met with very
scanty commiseration from the other pupils,
who were indeed inclined to laugh at each
arrival. Heavisides smilingly strummed

them back upon his banjo, just as he had
strummed them away.

It soon became evident that Puddleton had
fared very badly in the examination, and it
was afterwards discovered that most of the
failures were due to low marks in classics.
The cause, no doubt, was the disorderly conduct
that had been prevalent at one time,
and also the accident of an unusually stiff
paper. It was certainly no fault of Sterne's,
yet he felt it keenly.

Mr. Valentine Gaunt spoke very strongly
on the matter. It was his opportunity, and
he was not likely to let it slip. It was
exceedingly hard, he said, that the labour of
all the other tutors should be wasted through
the incompetence of one ; he really wondered
how the Doctor could be so foolish as to keep
a man so evidently incapable. This was a
very pleasant doctrine to those who had
failed. They were glad enough to lay the
blame on some one else's shoulders, and here,
it was done for them.

Of course this only added to the Doctor's

distress and uneasiness. That he, after having;
been so wonderfully successful, should be in
danger of losing his pupils through repeated
failures, was a new source of alarm. He
summoned a cabinet council to consider the
situation.

It was with unusually solemn faces that
the Professors assembled in the study.
Among the group standing in the bow-window
which looked out upon the tennis-court,
with its fencing of laurels, was
Leonard Sterne. His long face was grave
and anxious, but it also contained another
expression that attracted many curious
glances. He seldom spoke, and when he
did, there was in his voice a strange quiver,
suggesting a severe mental strain. Mr.
Jostler, who was clearly lubricating something,
fondled his big beard near the tiled
grate behind the Doctor's chair, and most of
the others were standing or sitting in front
of the bookcase opposite. Mr. Valentine
Gaunt, who arrived rather late, hovered
stealthily to a seat at the Doctor's right
hand, and sat down with folded arms.

With the arrangements for screwing up
the machinery to a higher state of efficiency,
we have no concern. The Doctor was an
adept in matters of the sort, and in the
present case seemed fairly well satisfied. He
had just expressed himself to this effect,
when Mr. Jostler stepped forward and said —

Might I suggest, Dr. Copingstone "

No, no," exclaimed the Doctor hurriedly.
*' Pray don't, Mr. Jostler, pray don't."

Mr. Jostler retired, looking round for
sympathy. If he had been content to drop
preliminaries, and give his speech by instalments,
he might have eased himself of it long
ago, but the unfortunate man would insist
upon its wholesale delivery.

While this incident was in progress, Sterne
advanced to the side of the writing-table
opposite Mr. Valentine Gaunt, and stood
there with his knuckles resting upon it. His
face made it very clear that something
unusual was about to occur. He looked
steadfastly at the Doctor, who had thrown
himself back in his chair, and, while his

fingers played uneasily with his grey hair,
was regarding his lieutenant with evident
apprehension.

Dr. Copingstone," Sterne said firmly, yet
in tones that had a hard nervous ring, " there
is one thing connected with the examination
that needs explanation. It is a most unpleasant
subject, but as it concerns the
honour of all in this room, and also of the
pupils, I feel it must be gone into."

Sterne paused, as if for breath. The silence
was profound, every one gazing at him with
the greatest anxiety, to learn what was
coming next. Instinctively one or two
glanced at Mr. Yalentine Gaunt, who was
still sitting with folded arms. There was a
glitter in his eyes that boded mischief.

Gro on, Sterne," said the Doctor hoarsely.
Such was the tension of his feelings that he
unconsciously dropped the prefix which he invariably
used when anybody else was present.

With one significant exception," resumed
Sterne, with a little gasp — " I'll refer to it
presently, if necessary — all our candidates at

the Civil Service Examinations have been
lately getting very high marks in French,
whereas those we have sent up to the
Universities, and elsewhere, have got very
low ones. It is a remarkable contrast. Perhaps
Mr. Gaunt, if only for his own sake,
will explain it."

All eyes were now withdrawn from Sterne
and fixed upon his rival, who still made no
movement, and so they went backwards and
forwards the whole time.

Is Mr. Sterne jealous of my success ? "
asked Mr. Valentine Gaunt, with an angry
little laugh. " He is always telling us that
he has only the interests of the pupils at
heart ; surely he is not going to reproach me
for getting them high marks in French to
counterbalance the low marks in Latin and
Greek ! By working together, we have
managed to urge the coach forward, and
bring some, at any rate, to their destination."

The fly on the wheel's a wasp," was the
whispered comment of Mr. O'Shee, Professor
of Geography.

VOL. II. a

Then," said Sterne, " does Mr. Gaunt's
explanation consist merely of an attack upon
me ? I ask, because I should like it to come
from him, and not from anybody else."

'^ So far, I see nothing to explain," said
Mr. Valentine Gaunt, with a supercilious
smile. " My duty here is to knock English
and French into the heads of the pupils committed
to my charge. It is for the examiners,
and not me, to get it out. If they succeed in
some cases, and fail in others, I can scarcely
be held responsible, though it suits Mr.
Sterne, whose own method is very deplorable,
to think so."

Sterne looked more distressed than indignant.
He hesitated a few moments, and then
spoke with difficulty.

Well," he said, with a sigh, " I am now
compelled to return to the significant exception
I mentioned. I mean Philip Strathclyde.
He did not get a single mark for French
translation. Can Mr. Gaunt tell us why ? "

Probably, when no longer under Mr.
Sterne's almost parental supervision, his

young friend indulged in a little relaxation,
instead of presenting himself for examination."

Need I contradict that, Dr. Coping-stone
? "

I have every confidence in Philip Strathclyde,"
remarked the Doctor, notwithstanding
his reluctance to be dragged into a
dispute in the same way that he often dragged
others.

And so have I," added Sterne, with great
earnestness. " He is a noble-minded young
fellow, and few would have done what he
did. He refused to send in a French translation
paper. Can Mr. Gaunt tell us why ? "

Nos I can't," replied Mr. Valentine
Gaunt sharply.

He had unfolded his arms, and was tugging
viciously at his whiskers. He tried to look
indifferent, but the tell-tale spots on his
cheekbones had begun to glow, and his heavy
brows were ominously contracted.

Must I still go on ? "

*' Ob, by all means. You are deliciously
mysterious."

Philip Strathclyde acted as lie did because
he wouldn't take an unfair advantage of the
other candidates. He was at first delighted,
and afterwards surprised, to find that he had
been specially prepared in nearly every question
in the grammar paper ; but when it cause
to the pieces set for translation, and he saw
that these also he had done with Mr. Gaunt,
he could come to only one conclusion."

Mr. Valentine Graunt sprang to his feet.

And what is that, Mr. Sterne ? " he loudly
demanded, with an angry gesture.

Perhaps you can answer the question,
better than I can."

Am I accused of having seen the paper
beforehand ? "

Alas ! his method usually followed his
temper.

You are your own accuser," said Sterne
severely.

Every one expected a very violent scene
to ensue, Mr. Valentine Gaunt's attitude was
so threatening. The Doctor, with a pitiably
troubled expression, half rose to prevent an

accident, but dropped back in his clair again.
The others held their breath, as they watched
these two staring at one another across the
writing-table.

However, Mr. Valentine Gaunt saw his
mistake, and quickly recovered himself.

I once asked you for an explanation, Mr.
Sterne," he said in his harshest tones, "and
you refused to give it to me. I claim the
same privilege now. If the Doctor thinks
there is anything to explain, I am quite ready
to explain to him, and to him alone. I
acknowledge no other authority."

'' If you satisfy him," said Sterne, " you
will satisfy me, and, I think I can say, all of
us; but the honour of the place certainly
demands an explanation."

'' Dr. Copingstone," said Mr. Jostler,
solemnly stroking his beard as he came
forward.

"Well," said the Doctor, without thinking.

Here was the long-wished-for opportunity
come at last. Smiling with satisfaction, Mr.
Jostler threw himself into an important

attitude, and was about to begin, when the
Doctor happened to look round. His face
became the very picture of dismay.

Bless the man, I declare he's going to
make a speech," said the Doctor. And before
the others could interchange smiles, he was
literally running from the room, glad enough,
no doubt, to put an end to a very painful
situation.

Mr. Jostler was not to be baulked this time,
however. He was far too uneasy to retain
his speech any longer ; and, though the Professors
at once began to disperse, he nevertheless
kept on unfeeling his supreme effort.
Higgins, who was rather a wag, declared that
when he peeped into the study an hour later,
he found Mr. Jostler still speaking — to empty
benches.

The result of the foregoing incident was to
split up the tutors into two sections, and to
develop among them the strong party spirit
that had long been rife among the pupils.

It might be supposed that they would gather
round Sterne, but, as a matter of fact, only a

few did. Except where the Doctor was concerned,
he was far too rigid to be generally
popular among his colleagues, who could not
forget his share in the dismissal of the unfortunate
Jenkins. It was not, of course, to
his having his own ideas of right and wrong-that
they objected ; it was to their being tried
by his hard-and-fast rule, which never admitted
of extenuating circumstances. They
were good fellows for the most part, but they
thought Sterne angular, and could not get on
with him.

It was different with Mr. Valentine Gaunt,
whose method largely consisted in making
himself popular, and whose morality was not
too severe. None of them stood in his way,
so he was very friendly with all. Feeling
that his position was too well established for
there to be any need to assert it in their case,
he ran no risk of giving offence, but treated
each as his equal. He reaped the benefit of
his self-restraint now.

The balance leaned unmistakably against
Leonard Sterne. The majority of his colleagues,

with a little natural bias, decided
that he had given way to jealous suspicions
which had no foundation. Mr. Valentine
Gaunt had made a lucky coup in respect to
the French papers, and the instinct of self-preservation
had caused Sterne to turn against
him. This was his own explanation, and it
was generally accepted. What other was
possible ? Sterne could not disprove it, and,
therefore, had no right to deny it ; he was
obliged to give it his tacit adhesion ; and his
silence was construed against him.

For his own part, he had resolved to hold
his hand for the present. After all, he might
be a prejudiced judge of what had happened.
He would wait until the next examination,
and then, if the same thing happened again,
insist upon Mr. Yalentine Gaunt's dismissal,
or leave Puddleton himself

In the acrimonious disputes that ensued
between the two factions, Puddleton threatened
to go to pieces. It was noticeable that many
of those who stoutly defended Sterne, nevertheless
shunned his company, as if they were

either ashamed of him or afraid of his powerful
rival. He was not slow to perceive his
growing isolation, and felt it deeply.

The Doctor would help me if he could,"
he sadly said to his wife, one afternoon
shortly after the meeting at the Rectory,
but I can see he is powerless. I don't
know why, yet there is the fact. If it were
not for that, I should leave the place as soon
as possible. But we can't desert our friend,
whatever happens."

I think the Doctor is a very poor friend,
Leonard," said his wife, who was sitting-opposite
him in the study, " and a very weak
man, too."

Only where his ambition is touched,
Lucy. He is strong enough in all else."

At any rate, I don't see why you should
help him if he won't help you. I do like fair
play. It's simply dreadful, your wearing

yourself out day and night, while " She

broke off to say in answer to a knock at the
door, " Come in. Well, Jane, what is it
now ? "

" If you please, ma'am," replied the servant,
Miss Nellie is in the drawing-room, and
she particularly wishes to see you alone."
Mrs. Sterne rose and went downstairs.

CHAPTER Y.

Nellie's trouble.

The register in the family Bible did not
contain Nellie's name. This was the trouble
that she now confided to her friend, Mrs.
Sterne. Was she an orphan, she tremblingly
asked, whom, in the goodness of his heart,
the Doctor had adopted ? Who was she, and
what was she ? What was her name ?

The two were sitting side by side in the
drawing-room at the Hut, an artistically-furnished
room, looking out upon the street
of straggling old-fashioned houses, now
scarcely visible for the tide of greenery that
was surging over them in the warm sud light.

Oh, what a silly puss it is, to be sure ! "
said Lucy Sterne, tenderly stroking Nellie's

dark hair. " Of course it is a mistake. Your
father has forgotten to enter your name ; that's
nil, Nellie."

But he has entered my poor darling
mother's death. If he had forgotten my
birth before, surely he would have remembered
it then."

At such a time, dear, he wouldn't be
likely to remember anything."

Then why did he hide the Bible away
from me ? " asked Nellie, sadly shaking her
head. " Why did he say the keys of the
bookcase were lost, when they are not ? "

Why, Nellie, you yourself have often told
me that there is only one key."

And so there is ; but it fits all the three
doors, and I can't see how there could ever
have been another. He said the keys were
lost long before my mother was taken from
us, and yet there it is all written down."

Perhaps, in his grief, he may have gone
mechanically to the bookcase and used the
one key," suggested kind-hearted Mrs. Sterne,
at her wits' end for some scrap of comfort,

'* and have forgotten how he did it. after wards.
I have heard of such things, Nellie."

In spite of her cheerful face, she felt sorely
troubled, for she had not her husband's faith
in the Doctor. On the contrary, she gave
him little credit for good motives, but,
judging him by the tricks that he was
continually playing, was inclined to consider
him an unscrupulous man whose winning
manner formed part of his stock-in-trade : a
verdict prompted chiefly by her resentment
against the Doctor for his treatment of her
husband, whose meekness scarcely met with
her approval. There was a limit, she felt,
even to Christian endurance ; and if she had
been allowed, she would many a time have
gone boldly to the Doctor and have given
him a piece of her mind, regardless of the
fact that she was ignorant of his position.
Indeed, she had more than once thrown out
such an unmistakable hint that he was almost
as much afraid of her as of Mr. Jostler.

Her distrust of him led her to ask permission
to lay the matter before her husband,

and, after receiving a promise that it should
go no farther, Nellie reluctantly consented.
She left shortly afterwards, feeling much
happier for Mrs. Sterne's assurance that she
would put everything right ; in what way she
forgot to explain.

Leonard Sterne listened to his wife's story
in silence, watching her intently, as if the
formation as well as the sound of the words
were of the utmost importance. While she
went chattering on, he sat stifHy in his chair,
his body bent rather forward, and his face
devoid of any other expression than concentrated
attention. When she finished speaking,
he said merely —

"Nellie should have gone straight to her
father instead of coming to us."

That may be, Leonard," replied his wife,
with a sense of disappointment at the prospect
of having to stand aloof from an attractive
mystery ; " but the Doctor has never treated
his children as he does anybody else, and if
they take their secrets elsewhere, it is his
own fault. Besides, I think Nellie is quite

right. She is a dear good girl, and she
doesn't want to pain him needlessly. Now
that her mind has been disturbed, she must
be told the truth, whatever it is ; and it would
be far better if she could be reassured without
letting the Doctor suspect the disquieting
thoughts that must be passing through her
poor head. That's her opinion, at any rate,
and it is mine, too."

I see," he remarked, with a grave smile,
you are both pupils of the Doctor."

'' Thank you for nothing, Leonard. But
will you help Nellie or won't you ? "

Do you mean b^^ speaking to the
Doctor ? "

No, she won't allow that, and she won't
speak to him herself."

You must give me time to think it over,
Lucy," he said, taking up his pen.

But can't you suggest any explanation ? "
she asked, curiously.

Perhaps the entry of Mrs. Copingstone's
death was made by Arnold. The Doctor,
forgetting about the missing keys, might

have asked him to perform what would bean
exceptionally painful task for a husband.
You often say, Lucy, he is fond of shift-ins:
his burdens on to the shoulders of
others."

But you never agree with me."

Well, I'll do so now. Father and son
write very much alike ; and if Arnold
has found out a way of opening the bookcase,
he is just the sort of fellow never to
mention it."

Hem ! " said Lucy Sterne, and took up
her work. Presently she looked up to ask,
Will you write to Arnold ? "

Nellie had received and shown her father
a letter from her brother, giving neither
address nor any particulars about himself
except that he was safe and well. But she
was still strictly forbidden to say anything
likely to lead people to suppose that he was
not at Oxford.

'' I'll see," answered Leonard Sterne, lighting
his pipe, and puffing away vigorously.
He remembered, among other things, the

picture of '^ the Old Adam," and felt it better
to drop the subject until be bad thoroughly
turned it over in bis mind.

If be could bave relied upon the Doctor to
tell " the truth, the whole truth, and nothing
but the truth," bis course would bave been
plain enough ; but in all probability, if be
were to ask for an explanation, be would
merely bave dust thrown in bis eyes. It was
an embarrassing position, perhaps the most
embarrassing that a man can be placed in.
He bad the firmest faith in the Doctor's ends,
but detested bis tricky means ; be earnestly
desired to help bis friend, but could not
implicitly trust him.

Tbe more be reflected, the more strongly
be felt that be dared not advise Nellie to lav
the matter before her father at present ; it
might only provoke him into telling her one
of bis well-intentioned " white lies," and this
Sterne could not reconcile with his conscience
Moreover, he could not even guess what rocks
might be lying ahead, and to send her blindfold
into unknown dangers would have been

VOL, II. H

the grossest cruelty. No, he decided that he
must act himself. But how ?

Sterne's difficulty was this : he did not
know whether to gather up the various clues
into a single skein, or which, if they were all
separate, he ought to follow. It seemed
impossible that there could be auy connection
between Mr. Valentine Gaunt's influence over
the Doctor, and the singular omission from
the family Bible ; and, as if the affair were
not sufficiently complicated, there were several
other circumstances which he could not fit in
with either.

While he was still trying to piece this
puzzle, though pretending to be engaged in
looking over Gammon's accounts, Philip
Strathclyde entered the room. He was
warmly greeted by Sterne and his wife, and
sat down by the latter's side on the couch in
the window.

Philip had been a good deal cut up by the
sickness that comes from " hope deferred,"
but his cheerful disposition had already
enabled him to leave it behind. In a few

more months there would be another examination,
and then all would be well. To
prevent the chance of another accident, he
had insisted upon being transferred from
Mr. Valentine Gaunt's classes to Mr. Jostler s,
who also taught French and English ; for the
Doctor still had two tutors for each subject,
and played the one against the other. He
saw the many little advantages of this rivalry,
but was not even yet keenly alive to the one
big disadvantage, though it was threatening
to bring the place about his ears.

Do you think the Doctor was aware of
Mr. Gaunt's foreknowledge of the French
papers ? " asked Philip, in his outspoken way.

Certainly not, Philip," returned Sterne
hotly. " I am surprised that you should ask
such a thing."

Well, I'm rather surprised at myself, but
so many astonishing things have occurred
lately that I don't know what to think."

That's no reason, my friend, why you
should bring a monstrous charge against the
Doctor."

"He has only himself to blame for any
charges that are brought against him," said
Mrs. Sterne. " What has put this idea into
your head, Mr. Strathclyde ? "

It would explain so many things," replied
Philip, thinking of the explanation itself
rather than of the serious accusation involved
in it. " Why he had engaged for an important
post a man who had, I'm certain,
never held a tutorship before, and why that
man had afterwards turned round upon him."

Mrs. Sterne looked at her husband with a
triumphant little smile, but the moment she
caught sight of his troubled face, she turned
to Philip and said stoutly —

'' No, Mr. Strathclyde, you are quite wrong.
The Doctor is worried about Mr. Gaunt, but,
be assured, for a totally different reason.
Some of his ways " — she was quoting her
husband's opinion — "may not be in accordance
with our notions, but he has a kind good
heart, which is the main thing, after all.
Don't you think so, Leonard ? "

He gave her a grateful look as he replied,

"Yes, decidedly. You are young and impulsive,
Philip, and don't mean any harm, I
know. But I would strongly warn you
against jumping at a hurtful theory because
it seems plausible. Look a little deeper, and
then see what becomes of your suggestion.
If the Doctor had really been engaged in
these infamous transactions, he would naturally
have tried to get the greatest benefit from
them ; in which case, Mr. Jostler would not
have a single pupil in French — they would
all be taught by Mr. Gaunt. This disposes
of your theory at once. But, in my opinion,
the matter is altogether beyond the region of
argument. The Doctor is your friend and
mine, and, therefore, we should believe only
what is good of him."

I'll try to do so," said Philip, penitently,
and I'm exceedingly sorry that I said anything
to vex you. I'm always putting my
foot in it."

Oh, that's all right, Philip," returned
Sterne, kindly. " I can quite understand
your anxiety to set up a known obstacle in

the place of an "unknown danger, so as to
have the satisfaction of demolishing it ; but
then, yon see, one runs the risk of demolishing
the wrong thing. And now I have some news
to tell you. I said that sooner or later Mrs.
Sterne would find out what was the matter
with Nellie, and she has done so to-day."

'' Oh, Mrs. Sterne, I don't know how to
thank you enough," exclaimed Philip.

J' I can't take any credit," he said. " I
have asked Nellie several times, but she
never would tell me until this afternoon,
when she came to me of her own accord."

And what is it ? "

Nothing very serious, I think," answered
Sterne, " but I can't tell you yet, if I would ;
and, what's more, I think it better for you
not to know at present. I am still of opinion
that if you can persuade the Doctor, all will
be well."

Ob, dear me, I'll do that," said Philip,
with a confident smile. " The last examination
was a very terrible thing, of course, but
next time " He stopped, and his face

became very grave, for he suddenly recollected
the disquieting change that had taken place
in the situation.

It was hard for Philip that he could not
take counsel with Leonard Sterne about the
alarming prospect opened up by the discovery
of Arnold in London. For all he knew, it
might be the very thing that was making
Nellie avoid him, and causing her father
such evident anxiety, and yet he was powerless
to help either. Philip felt bound in
honour to his friend ; like many young
fellows, he held that his word once given
could never be retracted — not even for the
purpose of averting disaster. In fact, his
opinion on this point was the opposite
extreme to the Doctor's.

Philip, as we have seen, was ready enough
to look at the darker side of the picture ; not
with the object of groaning at it and calling
others to groan at it, as many do ; but in
order to find out some way of turning it
round. Such difficulties as he had to encounter,
he preferred to meet on his own

ground. Hence the necessity for immediate
action pressed heavily upon him now. Supposing
the fact of Arnold's having gone on
the stage to be unknown to Mr. Valentine
Gaunt, he had no idea that the methodical man
had already fitted it in with his own plans,
but he was sharp enough to perceive that it
was well adapted to that purpose. This, he
felt, would be nothing short of a catastrophe
for all his friends. His uneasiness was increased
by Sterne's vague words about Nellie,
for he was in such a state of muddle that he
strung everything upon the same thread.
He decided to seek an immediate interview
with Arnold, who held the key of the position.
He told Sterne he was going to London,
but nothing more. Then he walked to the
Rectory. While he was following the grave
but watchful Higgins through the hall, he
heard Mr. Valentine Graunt's voice in the
drawing-room. It gave him a shock as if he
had inadvertently entered a shower-bath.
His face turned a bright crimson, for this
fair-haired lad had the delicate skin that

colours with painful ease, and he clenched
his fist in the attempt to control his anger.
The fellow was always dangling about Nellie ;

if he should dare to But never mind ;

his flank was about to be turned by a movement
that he little suspected. Philip had
some wild idea of bringing Arnold back to
Puddleton, if absolutely necessary, by the
coat-collar : anything, rather than that they
should go sliding over the precipice that was
gaping before them.

His request for a couple of days' leave of
absence was at once granted by the Doctor,
who inquired what he was going to do in
London, but merely for the sake of something
to say. Philip turned the question aside.
He was equally reticent with his aunt, and
wore quite an important air of mystery.

The same evening he arrived in London,
and, after a hasty dinner, proceeded to the
Parnassus, where a grievous disappointment
awaited him. Arnold had left the theatre,
and, so far as Philip could learn, his address
was unknown there.

CHAPTER YI.

AN UNPLEASANT Surprise.

It has been hinted that the piece in which
Arnold played the part of footman was nota
financial success. Within a week of his
unexpected meeting with Philip, it collapsed.
A new piece was immediately substituted for
it, but the new " cast " did not contain the
name of that rising young actor, Arnold
Cressingham. M. Dubarri wrung his hands
in despair, and then clenched and shook
them in violent indignation ; he declaimed
against the stupidity of theatrical managers ;
but he ended by cheering up and exhorting
his pupil to cheer up.

Pacha ! it is nothing — nothing," he said,
patting Arnold affectionately on the shoulder.

He is a donkey, that fellow Footlight, who
doesn't know his own business. See, he
fails ! There is the proof of what I say to
you. Never fear, my friend with the grand
passion, you will soon get another engagement
; and after, you will make a fortune."

Arnold was beginning to feel a little
doubtful on this point. He had an uncomfortable
suspicion that his last engagement
was due to his calves and his figure generally ;
which, if true, did not hold out a very strong
hope of his ever taking high rank in his profession.
He cheered up, of course ; that is
to say, he showed no outward signs of
despondency; but he could not help thinking
occasionally of the time — a time very
close at hand — when his money would be
exhausted.

M. Dubarri, who had lost his old pupils
by changing his address, and had not yet
succeeded in getting any new ones, had
already begun to husband their common
resources. The bottle cf claret was rarely
seen on the table, and though he still brought

in little delicacies for supper with the same
delightful air of mystery, they were always
of a cheaper sort than hitherto. In short, he
did his utmost to forget his own troubles, and
to make Arnold forget his, with such success
that no one would have guessed the extremities
to which the small household was often
driven for the sake of appearances.

M. Dubarri even found some comfort in
the termination of Arnold's connection with
the Parnassus. He laboured under the dread
that London was pervaded by emissaries of
Mr. Valentine Gaunt, and insisted upon
Arnold's taking extraordinary precautions
against being followed home from the theatre.
These precautions had latterly been abandoned ;
chiefly, it must be said, because Arnold saw
no need of them any longer, and was too
indolent to put them into practice. But as
for M. Dubarri, if he was only going as far
as the public-house at the corner, he always
proceeded in a very wily manner, making
wild dashes from one safe spot to another,
and generally behaving in a way that had

induced more than one detective to set off in
pursuit.

All this afforded a good deal of amusement
to Arnold, who, in his search for a fresh
engagement, invariably selected the shortest
road, and pursued it without heed to the
passers-by.

One fine afternoon early in June, when
returning from one of these expeditions, he
was strolling along Parnassus Street — a
neighbourhood that M. Dubarri had implored
him to shun, or, at any rate, to be particularly
careful in passing through. It was a noisy,
bustling thoroughfare, full of hurrying people
whose footsteps were scarcely audible amid
the continuous roar of heavy trafSc. Looking
neither to the right nor to the left, Arnold,
as usual, walked straight ahead, his tall
stalwart figure seeming to cleave a way
through the crowd. But at the hair-dresser's
shop which he had frequented since his connection
with the neighbouring theatre, he
stopped; and, after a slight hesitation, disappeared
through the door.

There were two men lounging near the
lamp-post on the opposite side of the street.
At the sight of Arnold, one of them started,
and began to stare. Then he whispered a
few words to the other, who hurried away,
and was soon lost among the crowd.

Meanwhile, Arnold had entered the shop.
There were no other customers in it at the
time, only the proprietress herself and the
smart young damsel with frizzled hair and
the black eyes who had smiled so boldly at
the parson in a tasselled hat. Madame
Farnienti was a plump, good-looking woman,
with very pale blue eyes and very light
flaxen hair, and perhaps a slightly vixenish
expression. She was fashionably dressed,
except that she wore rather more jewellery
than is usual in the daytime.

She and her assistant where looking over a
book that resembled a ledger. When Arnold
entered, she pushed it away with an exclamation
of impatience, saying —

I do wish I could get hold of that long-bearded
parson in the tasselled hat. Mr.

Valentine Gaunt, the private gentleman, I
suppose ! "

Leonard Sterne," said Arnold, thinking
aloud.

'' Eh ? what, sir ? " she demanded sharply.

Hair-cutting," replied Arnold, and passed
into the back shop. He had no wish to give
a possible clue to his own identification and
discovery.

It was a puzzling incident, which gave him
something to think about during his homeward
walk. What connection could Madame
Farnienti have with the Rev. Leonard Sterne
or Mr. Yalentine Gaunt ? He grouped them
in various attitudes upon his stage, and made
them enact various little scenes together ;
but the mere association of characters so
utterly unlike seemed to border upon farce.

These professional studies brought Arnold
to the Harrow Eoad, a very different place
from Momus Street, for it was never quiet
from morning till night. A stream of cabs
and omnibuses and vans was continually
rolling along it ; hawkers went bawling about

with their barrows in the roadway ; and all
sorts of people jostled one another on the
pavement. It was nice and lively, said
M. Dubarri, who took the greatest pains
to point out its advantages to Arnold.
And on a Saturday evening, when the
street was always transformed into a regular
fair, he declared it reminded him of the
Boulevards.

Arnold found him standing on his doorstep,
inserting a sweetmeat into the mouth of a
tiny girl whose sunny, upturned face looked
half-pleased and half-frightened, while a
group of other children stood around, waiting
their turn, with an excitement they could
scarcely control. M. Dubarri's little eyes
were twinkling delightedly ; and when he
had inserted the sweetmeat and closed the
wee mouth with his finger, Le laughed
heartily, and the children began to jump ; it
was such fun.

It was a new amusement for the old fellow,
who was so like a child himself in many
ways, that it would have been strange had

he not sympathized with the little ones. It
must be accounted an extraordinary thing
that there were no children in Momus Street,
or, at any rate, none visible. The Harrow
Road, on the other hand, simply swarmed
with them, so that M. Dubarri was in his
element. Many knew him already, and
never passed the small, shabby house where
he lived without pausing to gaze expectantly
at the windows. Edged in between two
shops, it stood a few paces back from the
pavement ; and it was here, out of the way
of the traffic, that he and his tiny admirers
were now collected.

Ah, ha ! You see I am busy, my friend,"
he cried to Arnold. And though he was
smiling, there was some anxiety in his look
and tones, as if he was not quite certain how
this undemonstrative young Englishman
would take it.

Suddenly he gave the rest of the sweetmeats
to the children, and, seizing Arnold by
the arm, hurried him down the street. It
would be difficult to describe the manoeuvres

VOL. II. I

that he executed with a view to throwing
some imaginary foe off the scent ; but he
never neglected them when he caught Arnold
outside the house on his return from any of
his old haunts. After entering a public-house
by one door and leaving by another, he seemed
more comfortable, though his mind was not
altogether easy until they were both inside
their own door, which he banged with a deep
sigh of relief.

The sitting-room was very like the one in
Momus Street. It was about the same size
and quite as dingy. If the horsehair couch
and chairs were different from the faded green
upholstery of the other house, there were the
same busts of Shakespeare and Sheridan, the
same French prints on the walls, the same
ink-stained table-cover, the same books, even
the same black cat — a stray cat that M. Dubarri
had taken pity upon.

He sat down in the arm-chair, and Arnold
occupied the couch opposite. Nothing was
said for a few minutes, for they were not
quite as talkative as they used to be — a fact

due as much to the din in the street as to
their lengthy companionship.

I say," exclaimed Arnold presently, " we
have given Mr. Valentine Graunt the slip."

That is good, my friend," said M. Dubarri,
shaking with laughter. " He will be blessing
us, that sly old fox, who creeps as quietly as
pussy there. But I am sly, too, and I have
been one too many for him with my little trick.'

Then you think he will never find us
again ? "

Never — never, if "

1 have so few friends," croaked Mr.
Valentine Gaunt, standing in the doorway,
that I couldn't bear the thought of parting
with them."

No servant had announced his approach ;
no footstep had sounded in the hall ; there
had been no warning knock. The door had
opened noiselessly, and then they saw him
standing there, his foot hovering, his hat held
in his hand, and a malicious smile on his face
as he dragged out his heavy attempt at playfulness.


M. Dubarri's face was the funniest sight in
the world, though the poor old fellow was ina
very dreadful state of mind. He was blinking
like an owl at that sinister face in the
doorway. He was so dazed that his politeness,
which was with him a kind of instinct,
had entirely deserted him ; he kept his seat,
as if he were glued to it. This was, indeed,
a sorry ending to his little trick.

'^ My friends," said Mr. Valentine Gaunt,
slowly advancing into the room, " seem
scarcely as delighted to see me as I should
have expected."

Perhaps to get rid of his astonishment,
M. Dubarri jumped up and shook himself,
like a Newfoundland dog just emerged from
the water. Then he said dubiously —

So you have come, my friend ! Well "

an idea struck him and he brightened up,
"we have been expecting you. We knew
you would com, when you found us out.
Mr. Arnold, I would ask you : do I speak the
truth ? "

No need to answer that, I hope," replied

Arnold, who had viewed tins little scene very
calmly.

Ell bien ! You are welcome, Mr. Valentine
Gaunt. Our departure was so sudden —
sapristi ! how it incommoded us ! And then
you are close, we had not your address to
write to you. You see, I am frank. Come,
I shake you by the hand. Now seat yourself,
and after, we shall talk."

He accordingly conducted his visitor to
the arm-chair, and, after a little excited
dancing about the room, placed himself on
the couch by the side of Arnold.

So you knew I would come," said Mr.
Yalentine Gaunt, still smiling, " when I found
you out, did you ? "

We were quite sure of it, my friend."

And you were right. I never would
desert M. Dubarri. He will understand how
deeply grieved I was at losing sight of him
for even a few weeks. I can thoroughly
enter into the feelings with which he must
have thought of me standing at the door of
his deserted house."

"" Ah ! that must have been a sad disappointment,"
murmured M. Dubarri. Notwithstanding
the realization of a fear that
had been haunting him day and night, his
sense of humour proved too strong for his
gravity ; and in order to hide those twinkling
eyes of his, he jumped up, turned his back on
his visitor, and began to stamp his foot, as if
to recover a key that had strayed through a
hole in his pocket. This done, he sat down
and gazed gravely but dubiously at Mr.
Yalentine Gaunt, who said —

It was indeed. But I was so anxious
lest you should think ill of me that I have
lost no time in calling upon you at your new
address. So we shall now be on the same
intimate terms as ever. May I inquire," he
added, watching closely, " what caused such
a sudden change in your plans ? "

*' The landlord ; was he not a brute, a
rascal ? I used to tell you so, you will remember.
Well, I could not endure the fellow
longer. He said do this ; I wanted to do
that. What could you expect ? We parted,

and — here we are. I am frank, you see.
And you ? You are quite well, eh ? "

'- Quite, thank you."

Ab, that is good. And how did you find
us out, my friend ? "

*' Mr. Cressingham is an actor."

^'Bien."

He is in search of an engagement."

Bien," more impatiently.

And he visits a hair-dresser's shop in
Parnassus Street."

I feared so," sighed M. Dubarri, losing
all control of his feelings and looking reproachfully
at Arnold. He was scarcely such
a proficient in the art of deception as he
considered himself to be. " You followed
him here ? "

A friend told me where he was, for by
the merest accident I happened to be in London
and close at hand. When we stopped here "
his smile struck M. Dubarri as being intensely
disagreeable — " I guessed it was your
house, and waited till your return. It was
fortunate that I did."

'« Yery," was the dry response.

Not knowing what turn affairs might take,
Arnold prudently left the room. He had his
father's dislike to anything approaching a
scene, for one thing ; and for another, thought
he might as well seize the opportunity to
send a hasty note to Hebe.

A short silence followed his departure, the
two eying one another as if they were making
experiments in mesmerism. There was fear
in M. Dubarri's face, but it changed to something
very like the courage of despair, when
he said —

Mr. Gaunt, I shall serve you no longer.
It was for that reason I made my escape from
the other house. Sapristi ! it is terrible,
frightful, this weight hanging round my neck
every minute of the day. I can't bear it, so
you must do your worst."

"- You mean that you will supply me with
no more advance-sheets ? "

That is so. I bitterly repent that I ever
supplied you with one. God knows you
would never have had another if you had not

forced me with threats of exposure. But that
is all over now ; my mind is fixed."

But "

I say it," roared M. Dubarri, banging his
fist upon the table. " I am a rock. If you
would move me, I tell you it is impossible."

Then let us say no more about it," said
Mr. Valentine Gaunt, in his friendliest manner.

His words so astonished M. Dubarri that
he began to blink again. After a while, he
leaped from the couch, insisted upon shaking
hands several times, and indulged in the most
extravagant expressions of gratitude. He had
faced the bogey that had been making his
life a burden, and lo ! it had vanished. In
his frantic glee, he threw prudence to the
winds and sent for a bottle of vin-ordinaire,
the girl receiving the most minute instructions
as to how she should carry the bottle.

As a matter of fact, however, Mr. Valentine
Gaunt had no idea of relinquishing his
prey so easily. His methodical mind was
always a little disturbed by an unexpected
emergency ; he required time to think it over

before he felt himself able to grapple with it
successfully. In the present case there was
no need to act with haste ; the next examination
did not come on for several months ;
between then and now there would be plenty
of time to meet this new departure.

It is not a charitable thing to inquire too
closely into the cause of repentance. It maybe
a revolt from the tyranny of the sin itself;
it may be a dread of the penalty ; most frequently,
perhaps, it is a combination of both.
But where any doubt exists, it is better to
choose the worthier reason. We will, if you
please, do this in M. Dubarri's case.
Briefly stated, the facts are these : —
In one of his thoughtless moments, he had
mentioned his ability to procure copies of the
French papers set by the Civil] Service
Examiners. Mr. Yalentine Gaunt, who was
his confidant, immediately set his wits to
work, and at length hit upon a method of
improving the golden opportunity. He turned
tutor by the aid of forged testimonials, written
by himself it is almost needless to say, for

M. Dubarri never could have written them.
Indeed, though his signature was used, they
were not even shown to him, for he was too
impulsive to be altogether trusted. He was
merely told that certain inquiries might be
put to him, and he was requested not to
answer them, without reference to the prime
mover in the affair. Of his own free will, he
obtained only one paper ; the rest were extorted
by means of threats. Had he boldly
taken the bull by the horns, he could no doubt
have defied Mr. Valentine Graunt, who dared
not proceed with what would certainly have
involved him in a charge of conspiracy ; but
this, either through ignorance of the English
law or want of courage, he had not ventured
to do until to-day.

How M. Dubarri got the French papers
is not very certain. He often spoke about
his friendship with one of the examiners, and
he had unmistakably turned Mr. Valentine
Gaunt s eyes in this direction ; but then his
way of saying things merely to add to his
own importance, makes this hypothesis more

than doubtful. It is far more probable that
the real culprit was one of the tippling red-nosed
compositors with whom he was acquainted,
for such things have been before
and doubtless will again, notwithstanding
such precautions as the numbering of the
papers, the sealing them in packets, and so
forth. However, the explanation is of small
importance ; it is only with the fact itself that
we are concerned.

This eventful day had yet another surprise
in store. While Mr. Yalentine Graunt was
drinking vin-ordinaire with a courage born of
a desperate wish to appear friendly, and
M. Dubarri was alternately sipping his wine,
and holding up his glass to the light, nodding
and smiling and talking all the time, the
former produced a paper from his pocket, and
handed it to the latter, who settled his pinckney
upon his little saddle of a nose before
looking at it.

Sapristi ! the reverend diable himself ! "
cried M. Dubarri, once more lifted to his feet
by the violence of his feelings. " Where did

yon get this " — tapping the paper — '' this —
this ? "

Will you tell me what I have often asked
you?

Why ? You will not answer, so how
can I say ? "

That is my business."

Well," said M. Dubarri, shrugging his
shoulders, " keep your secret, and I shall
keep mine. That will be fair play, I think.
Here is your picture. Now, let us say no
more about it. Come, my friend, I shake
you by the hand."

They accordingly shook hands for about the
hundredth time.

Mr. Valentine Gaunt left soon afterwards,
promising — in response to an invitation that
was almost frigid for M. Dubarri, who stood
bowing on the doorstep — to call again the
very next time he was in town. He had not
gone very far when he was joined by Arnold,
and the two walked together in the direction
of the railway station.

As it was about six o'clock in the evening,

the Harrow Road was in a great state of
bustle, due chiefly to those who were returning
from their offices in the City. The people
overflowed both pavements ; the omnibuses
were crammed inside and out ; and innumerable
children were hunting one another
between the legs of the pedestrians and the
wheels of the vehicles. Perambulators were
going past in droves, and here and there a
loud-voiced butcher stood in his doorway,
calling attention to his meat.

Amid this confusion, neither Arnold nor
Mr. ■ Valentine Gaunt was likely to have
noticed a slight round-shouldered figure —
dressed in a blue frock-coat, with the Ribbon
of the Legion of Honour in the button-hole,
and very baggy light trousers — gliding along
a short distance behind. It was a comical
notion that M. Dubarri should now be hunting
Mr. Valentine Gaunt, whom he had
previously suspected of being solely engaged
in hunting him. The artful way in which
this singular old fellow availed himself of
cover, dodging from door to door or lamp-post

to lamp-post, showed that ho was turning
his recent experiences to good account,
though he was occasionally rather hampered
by some of the young friends to whom he
was in the habit of giving sweetmeats.

Suddenly he made a dart for a chemist's
shop, for Mr. Valentine Gaunt had stopped
in front of a tobacconist's window, and was
looking round suspiciously.

Think over my words, Arnold," he said,
holding out his hand. '' Don't be discouraged
by your apparent failure, and lay to heart the
opinion of a friend, that matrimony is the
surest road to success. It is a powerful and
constant stimulus to exertion ; it weans you
out of yourself; it makes you do and dare
what you would otherwise shrink from. The
married man has the madman's strength
because "

They are much alike," suggested Arnold,
raising those unfathomable eyes of his to his
companion's frowning face.

Not at all. But there, I have no more
time to spare. I won't forget your letter.

Stick at it, Arnold, and remember if you
should be hard up, you know where to come."

It struck him that Arnold showed a very
unpleasant degree of irresolution, and as he
hurried along the crowded street, he decided
that the time had come for taking his next
step.

Meanwhile, M. Dubarri, emerging from the
chemist's door, slipped across the road to
avoid Arnold, and continued his pursuit.
Still practising the same crafty tactics, he
followed Mr. Valentine Gaunt to the station,
at the entrance to which he stood for a few
moments, looking in with an uncommonly
sly expression, and his finger laid against his
nose. But at length, he stole through the
booking-office, and gained the platform.

CHAPTER Iii.

FALLEN AMONG THIEVES.

PcTDDLETON was a charming spot in the
month of June, when the sunlight lay deep
upon the corn-lands, aglow with scarlet
poppies, and the meadows where the cattle
clustered under the scanty shade of the
poplars. The delightful lanes along which
the wagons with their smock-frocked carters
moved so dreamily, seemed to have buried
themselves deeper in the rolling tide of
greenery and colour ; and after plunging
through some cutting in the sandy soil where
the martins had their nests behind a screen
of honeysuckle, they vanished altogether.
There was at most times a green rivulet of
trees and undergrowth running along the

YOL. II. K

base of Camelback and its brother hills, but
it broadened at the approach of summer ; it
poured into little bays here, and surged
around promontories there, and so crept up
the sunny slopes as if it would reach the blue
sky itself.

There was a pleasant drowsiness in the
scene. Whether the eye turned to the
country smiling back upon a smiling sky,
or,, to the rustic street of red-brick cottages
nearly hidden beneath trailing vines
or purple bunches of historia, and standing
in tiny gardens where sunflowers glowed
among cabbage-roses and sweet-williams, the
prospect was peace. The very Splashwater
babbled more softly as it glided under the
old bridge ; there was a lullaby in its summer
song that harmonized with the notes of the
cuckoo in the Rectory garden. Only the
swallows darting from beneath the eaves
seemed to be on the alert, but there was in
their smooth flight an absence of effort that
rather added to the general effect than otherwise.


Here, at any rate, one might fancy a weary
wanderer saying, '' I shall find rest."

And now the human element appears upon
the scene, and lo ! a Babel — a confusion of
tongues and many heart-burnings. Putting
aside mere noise, of which there was plenty,
proceeding from the horns on Silverspoon's
coach, the multitude of fox-terriers, and the
pupils' band, we pass at once to matters of
more importance.

First, of all, there was the Doctor, the
autocrat of this little village, a favourite with
almost everybody, a wealthy man, and
generally reputed prosperous. Yet the
haggard look was growing more frequent in
his face ; it could not be laid aside as readily
as it once was ; it was leaving its marks in
deeper wrinkles, greyer hair, and a slight —
very slight — bowing of that wiry figure.
The burden was not heavier than it had
been for months past; it was, indeed, precisely
the same burden ; but hope was giving
way to despair, and suspense was becoming
intolerable — the suspense of waiting for and

wondering what would have to be faced
next.

Then there was Leonard Sterne, bravely
carrying his friends' burdens as well as his
own, doing his utmost to help them, yet never
knowing whether the next step might not
cast him and his wife adrift upon the world.

Then there was Nellie, with her trouble —
a very terrible one for the poor girl to have
to bear ; and Philip with his. He was so
bright and hopeful that he might have been
the best off of all ; and yet to many another,
his case would certainly have appeared
desperate.

Then there was Hebe, driven almost to
distraction by Arnold's unaccountable silence ;
and Mr. Pike with his fears on her account,
and his grievances against the Doctor.

Then there were the pupils, growing daily
more unruly and, as a natural consequence,
more discontented ; and finally the villagers,
alarmed lest the disorder should bring about
a collapse of the establishment, and render
useless the shops they had improved, and the

stock they had bought in order to tempt the
pupils.

Here, then, in this pretty, peaceful-looking
village, we find a great deal of uneasiness and
a great deal of actual misers, not of the kind
that is inseparable from existence, but due
mainly to the selfishness of one man — Mr.
Valentine Gaunt — whose free-and-easy ways
made him generally popular, and who played
his part with such caution that most laid the
blame upon Leonard Sterne. Still, in his
determination to get rid of his dangerous
rival, he might go too far, and perish in the
ruin that he himself had caused. There was
just this peril to be avoided, and it was one
of the chief reasons why Mr. Valentine Gaunt
advanced with such extreme deliberation.

About this time, as if there was not quite
enough trouble, a cloud of locusts descended
upon Puddleton with the intention of devouring
every green thing. It must be confessed
that in the whole wide world they could not
have found a better site for their operations.
Puddleton was full of green things, though

they wore big-click suits, and toothed on
coach-horiis, and strummed on banjos in their
baths.

The locusts were money-lenders, who came
in the guise of touting tailors, tobacconists,
wine-merchants, and so forth. The steady-going
Heavisides, who was of luxurious
habits, had picked up a specimen somewhere
in the neighbourhood of his Militia regiment
during the annual training, and had brought
it down to Puddleton, the eventual result
being to bring his strong-minded mother
upon the scene. There were in the bill
certain items that she strongly objected to
pay, and she carried her objections into court
with very fair success. Fancy waistcoats
purchased by the dozen were declared not to
be necessary for a gentleman's outfit ; so they
were struck out, together with many other
things. But it turned out that only some
of the huge number of suits set down to the
account of our cylindrical young friend, were
to be found in his wardrobe ; the rest represented
money lent at an enormous rate of

interest. This, of course, had to be refunded,
though the interest was cancelled. Finally,
the touting tailor was told very plainly what
the judge thought of him.

Unfortunately, Mrs. Heavisides' lawsuit
proved hurtful in one way. It brought
Puddleton into notoriety, and a swarm came
where there had hitherto been only a single
specimen. They kept dropping into the
street, like insects after a thunderstorm. Of
course it fell to the lot of Leonard Sterne to
clear them away ; and a very disagreeable
task it was, though here he had all the
villagers on his side.

The most troublesome of the pests was a
certain Yampiretti : an uncommonly obliging
fellow by his own showing, but a most insatiable
bloodsucker, according to others. He
was seldom observed about the village in
person, and yet he was acquainted with the
names of the pupils and kept showering upon
them circulars setting forth his singular
generosity. He was so pertinacious that,
after dodging the inhospitable bootjack, and

flying before the deftly-hurled poker, he
would appear again next morning, smiling
and bowing at the door, while he offered you
any amount of money merely for the honour
of your patronage, with, perhaps, a post obit
thrown in.

This creature — it seems a libel upon the
race to call him a man — contrived to get very
many of the pupils into his net, and among
the number was Plantagenet. The matter
became talked about in the village, and was
eventually told by Gammon to Leonard Sterne,
who thereupon laid it before the Doctor in
his study.

If we don't take care," said the Doctor,
twitching his glasses from his nose and
leaning back in his chair, " between the two
stools of usury and general disorder, we shall
come to the ground. I'll tell you what it is,
Sterne ; we must make an example of somebody."
He spoke with a certain satisfaction,
and it almost seemed as if there ought to be a
Smile slyly lurking in the depth of those keen
small eyes. " The discipline of the place

demands an instant sacrifice ; the higher,
the better. I have made up my mind that
Plantagenet must go. Won't that astonish
them ? "

Sterne looked greatly astonished himself.

Yes," he said ; '' but I should call Plantagenet
about the best of the lot."

"All the better— all the better. It will
strike all the more terror into them. It will
keep them quiet for a time, and then outcomes
another victim to the wolves."

Is it quite fair ? "

But surely you agree with me that
discipline must be maintained ? " said the
Doctor, ranging himself with comical dexterity
on the side of order, and inviting the staunch
disciplinarian to come and join him.

There is Heavisides, for example."

Mr. Sterne," said the Doctor, solemnly,
Heavisides will be here for another ten
years."

The wish is proverbially said to be the
father to the thought ; but in course of time
the son shakes off the paternal yoke and leads

a sturdy independent existence. The matter-of-fact
way in which the Doctor spoke, showed
that he had brought himself to believe in the
stability of his establishment, and that this
belief had not been shattered by recent
events, even though the idea of lasting fame
might have to be abandoned. If he could
have faced the possibility of seeing his
ambition destroyed during his lifetime, he
might have defied Mr. Yalentine Gaunt ; but
the man of method had gauged his strength
as well as his weakness.

The Doctor followed up his announcement
to Sterne by its prompt execution. Higgins
was at once despatched to pack up Plantagenet's
things, and when this young gentleman
returned from a drive on Silverspoon's
coach, he was surprised to find all his portmanteaus
on the top of a fly, waiting to
convey him to Stilbury. In the utmost
indignation, he rushed up to the Rectory to
expostulate with the Doctor, or at least to
learn what offence he had committed. The
Doctor was asleep and could not be disturbed ;

such was the message brought out by that
sphinx, Higgins, whose gravity, however,
scarcely concealed a suspicion of a smile.
Plantagenet next went to the Hut, but
Sterne could merely reiterate the Doctor's
orders. In the end, he left in high dudgeon
and amid the sympathetic cheers of a crowd
of friends.

There can be no doubt that this incident
created a profound impression ; the pupils
being as quiet as mice for the next few days.
But it very soon turned out that the Doctor
had been indulging, as usual, in a little
sleight-offhand, yet with such a masterly air
of sincerity as to have deceived even Leonard
Sterne. Why, he could no more have dismissed
the son of a duke than he could have
flown.

Before Plantagenet reached home, his father
received a letter from the Doctor, detailing
the transactions with Yampiretti and stating
that as Lord Ernest had been growing a
little wild of late, it was considered necessary
to check the tendency at once : " in which,"

added the Doctor, "I feel sure your Grace
will agree with me, so I have packed him off
home in order to give him a fright. A week's
rest will do him no harm, and then we shall
be ready to receive him again." Hence it
was that a week later Plantagenet returned to
Puddleton, and was greeted with quite an
ovation, Heavisides even going out to meet
him, along the Stilbury Road, smiling and
straining upon his banjo.

Sterne, who, with all his opportunities,
had scarcely fathomed a current of humour
underlying the Doctor's character, felt bound
to put in a very serious protest. " Such
^ vacillation," he said, "was utterly subversive
of discipline."

Bless the man, he's never satisfied," exclaimed
the Doctor. " Why, you yourself
declared Plantagenet to be the best of the lot,
and now that I have him back, you are still
grumbling."

"Not at the fact itself," objected Sterne,
as gravely as ever, " but at the principle
involved. If you had not given people to

understand that you were sending Plantagenet
away altogether, I should see no
harm in your taking him back."

But did I give people ^ to understand
that ? "

Well, not by words "

All the lightness had vanished from the
Doctor's manner, and he sighed wearily.

The effect upon the pupils has been
good," he said. '' You can see that for yourself.
I have tried the same thing before, and
it has never failed me. And, Sterne, my
friend " — the wistful look in his careworn
face was full of pathos — " these little ways of
mine give me almost the only pleasure that I
have left. If thou are going to object to them
now, I shall be beset on every side."

These were sad words, indeed. They
lighted up with a sudden glare the depths
into which this unfortunate foolish old man
had fallen. They simply appalled Leonard
Sterne, who could scarcely conceive such
hopeless misery. He could not understand
this delight in overreaching others, and saw

only its worst qualities ; the very idea of
beings driven to it alone for distraction made
him shudder. He was nearly imploring the
Doctor to tell him the nature of the mysterious
power possessed by Mr. Yalentine Graunt, but
want of perfect confidence came between
them again, as it had often done before.

Sterne uttered no further remonstrance.
He spoke in his kindliest and most cheery
manner, and then sadly went homewards,
trying hard to unravel the tangled threads.

In his study he found one of his favourite
pupils, a nice little fellow called Sparrow
Hawk. Though quite a boy, he had not
escaped the contagion of extravagance, and
alarmed at the dismissal of Plantagenet — of
whose return only an hour before he had not
yet heard — he had at length prevailed upon
himself to make a clean breast of it. The
Doctor found a pretence of knowledge that
he did not actually possess, to be a very
serviceable weapon at times ; and this, no
doubt, had proved effective in the present
case. At any rate, Sparrow Hawk seemed to

think that his secret had escaped from his
keeping. To cut his long story short, he
had fallen into the clutches of that fiend,
Yampiretti. He was very miserable over it
and very penitent, and not a little afraid of
his father's anger. His conduct, though
reprehensible, did not amount to a heinous
sin, in Sterne's opinion ; so he did his utmost
to reassure the lad. First of all, he said, he
must consult the Doctor ; which he accordingly
did.

*' Start away for Hastings by the next
train, Sterne," said the Doctor. " Sir Kestrel
Hawk is there now, and if he is the man I
take him to be, he will help us to clip the
wings of this scoundrel, Yampiretti. Off you
go — tout-despite I " And he banged his fist
upon the table.

If the Doctor was fond of promptitude,
Sterne liked to show that he was not destitute
of that quality. He packed up a small handbag,
telegraphed to the baronet to announce
his intention, hired a fly from the Mark's
and was soon rattling along the road to

Stilbury. The same evening be arrived at
Hastings, or rather St. Leonard's, his destination
being one of the large houses on the
Marina.

He was very courteously received by Sir
Kestrel Hawk, a fierce-looking man with
prominent eyes and red hair and moustache.
The baronet was proud of his blue blood, and
it showed very distinctly in the veins of his
forehead. When he heard Sterne's account
of what had happened, he was perfectly
furious. It was the first time, he declared,
a member of his family had ever made a fool
of himself, and he was determined it should
be the last, if he could help it. As Sir
Kestrel's wrath against his foolish young son
cooled down, it grew hotter against the
rapacious usurer, who, it appeared, had tried
to evade the minority clause by means of an
agreement that the loan and interest should
be regarded as the price of certain worthless
cigars that Sparrow had received from him.

I shan't pay him a penny," said the
baronet, " not a penny. Let him sue me, if

he dare ! Equity is on my side ; and law-well,

I'm not a prophet. The law and the
prophets always go together. But even if I
should lose the case, I would have the
pleasure of exposing the fellow, and, perhaps,
stopping his rascality."

*' Quite so," assented Sterne, who saw that
the Doctor had not mistaken his man.

And now let us leave an unpleasant
subject," said the baronet. " Of course, Mr.
Sterne,. you will sleep here this evening. I
have asked a few friends to dinner."

I shall be very pleased, Sir Kestrel. In
any case, I could not return to my work till
tomorrow."

And thus it came about that eight o'clock
found Leonard Sterne seated at the baronet's
dinner-table with half a dozen other guests.
The room was large and handsomely furnished.
It contained a great number of foreign
curiosities, chiefly Indian ; but better than
all, it looked out upon the sea — a sheeny
gently-heaving sea dotted about with white-sailed
boats, and merging into pink and

VOL. II.

crimson clouds, which formed a glorious
mountain landscape upon the horizon. The
murmur of the waves floating in through the
open window, the footmen gliding about
with their silver dishes, the soft buzz of conversation,
the strangeness of the pretty things
around — all tended to throw Sterne into a
dreamy mood ; from which he was aroused
by a remark made by one of his neighbours,
an elderly white-headed clergyman who had
been introduced as Mr. Knight.

It was a reference to Mrs. Heavisides that
had arrested Sterne's attention. In answer
to his inquiry, it appeared that during the
season she belonged to Mr. Knight's congregation
; and, on account of her famous
lecture — so he called it — at Exeter Hall, he
held her in the highest esteem. He then
went on to speak in terms of reprobation of
her steady-going son, whoni he described as
going downhill with a rapidity that scarcely
justified his sobriquet. This led Sterne to
mention his own connection with Puddleton.

The name of Copingstone," said Mr.

Knight, " is so un — no, no more wine, thank
you, Sir Kestrel — so uncommon that I should
think there can be only one family inexistence."


There is only one, I believe," answered
Sterne.

The other day, in looking over my
register, I came across the name. It was a
marriage, I think, but I forget the particulars."

"• I should greatly like to see it."

Yon can see it, with pleasure."

Sterne made an arrangement for the
following day.

Next morning he took leave of the baronet ;
and although it was a little out of his way,
strolled along the sea-wall as far as the baths,
where the band was playing and a well-dressed
crowd collected. It was a pretty
scene, with the feathery clouds floating in the
blue sky overhead, and the sunlight glancing
upon the water — an almost limitless expanse
of opalescent colours, were it not for Beachy
Head frowning out of the haze in the far east.

Sterne turned from the bright faces around

to the merry children playing on the beach ;
everybody seemed happy but himself, and
he felt a strange depression of spirits. Afterwards
he told himself that it was due to a
presentiment of coming evil, but there can be
no doubt that the real cause was his being
sadly out of harmony with his surroundings,
lor nothing makes a man feel his trouble
more keenly than this does.

leith a sigh Sterne hurried away.

He found Mr. Knight waiting for him at
the church door, and together they entered
the vestry — a dismal little cell pervaded by
one of those close bottled-up smells that are
difficult to classify. It may have proceeded
from the clerical gear — some of which looked
much the worse for wear — hanging from a
nail in the door, or from a couple of musty
umbrellas in the corner.

You don't look very well, Mr. Sterne,"
said the kindly, white-headed old clergyman.

Perhaps your Hastings air is rather
stronger than that of Puddleton," suggested
Sterne, euphoniously alluding to the smell in
question.

Ah, I dare say." And lie dragged the
heavy book from its oaken chest and laid it
upon the table.

He began to turn over the pages, while
Sterne stood watching with an anxiety that
he could scarcely conceal and could not
account for. When, at length, the entry was
found and pointed out to him, he stooped
down to read it.

Good gracious, sir, sit down in that
chair," exclaimed Mr. Knight. " Would you
like a glass of water ? "

No, thank you," replied Sterne, whose
face had turned deadly white. " It is a
merely passing spasm. I'll take a copy of
this, if I may."

Certainly ; but are you sure I can't do
anything for you ? "

Quite, thank you."

Sterne sat down in the chair. Then he
brought out his pocket-book and copied into
it the words that had produced such a painful
effect upon him.

CHAPTER YIIL

A DIFFICULT PROBLEM.

The, passion-flowers peeping from the snowstorm
of clematis that had nearly buried the
Rectory, were a pretty sight ; but not so
pretty as Nellie standing in the porch, with
the sunlight falling in a golden flood upon
her dainty figure, and her hand raised to
shade her blue eyes. She was looking after
her father, who was riding down the gravel
sweep between the laurels, the coachman
following to close the gate.

Mounted on his showy cob, the Doctor was
a sufficiently picturesque object in his high
sloping hat and Wellington boots. He sat
so firm and square in the saddle that none
could have guessed his age, until he turned to

wave his hand to NeHie, when his grey beard
told a tale that a smiling face could not belie.
It was an unusual thing for him to go out
for his afternoon ride without Nellie. But
she said that she was not very well, and,
indeed, she had been looking pale for some
weeks. At one time he would scarcely have
liked to leave her alone, for fear of the ardent
young lover who had boldly declared his
intention of seeing her as often as possible ;
but latterly a restraint had arisen between
the two, and it pleased as well as puzzled the
Doctor. He was pleased because Philip kept
away from the Rectory, and Nellie showed
no anxiety to meet him ; and puzzled at
certain inconsistencies in their behaviour
when chance happened to bring them together.
Nellie had made up her mind to avoid all
society until the mystery concerning herself
was cleared up ; and, as for Philip, he had
consented to take Leonard Sterne's advice
and wait patiently for a while. But this, of
course, the Doctor did not know, and was not
likely to know, for it was not his way to

make any inquiries direct. So, while he
wondered a good deal, he merely kept his
eyes open and told Higgins to do the same.

When her father had ridden out of sight,
Nellie returned to the drawing-room and her
book. She was not left very long in peace,
however. A quarter of an hour later the
door opened, and Mr. Valentine Gaunt was
announced.

He entered with a rush. Yes, it was a
very decided rush ; only every detail, even to
the way in which he carried his hat and
stick and the glove that he had just taken ois
his right hand, had the appearance of careful
study. He seldom wore gloves, except when
paying a ceremonious visit to the Rectory ;
and on these occasions he assumed a sprightly
demeanour, all the more remarkable for its
contrast with his cautious movements in
general.

There was one other peculiarity about him
that must be noticed. His hair had gradually
been growing darker. It had once been
unmistakably grey, mutton-chop whiskers

and all ; but while it was still scanty, still
carefully brushed across the bare patches, the
colour was now a uniform brown. It is
easier to record the fact than to explain it.
Some people grow younger in one way, and
some in another ; but the approach of this
second childhood had affected Mr. Valentine
Gaunt in other things, besides his hair.

He greeted Nellie with almost boyish
effusion, and yet with a tinge of affected
bashful n less which was really very funny.
Her coldness chilled him a little, but not
much. He had evidently prepared his part
up to a certain point, beyond which he would
have to trust to his own resources.

Sitting on the couch opposite Nellie, who
knew perfectly well what was coming, Mr.
Valentine Gaunt took something from his
pocket and held it so that she could see it.

Your photograph ! " he said, and his
attitude and tones were most theatrical.
Your photograph ! I have carried it about
with me for weeks and weeks. It has been
my constant companion."

"May I ask where you got it, Mr. Gaunt ? "
interrupted Nellie, rather alarmed and greatly
astonished.

Well, I have come prepared to tell you
that," replied Mr. Valentine Gaunt with an
air of frankness that M. Dubarri could not
have surpassed. " I feel sure, when you
know the circumstances, you will pardon
what I did. I — in fact, I took it out of your
album."

I should call that stealing."

*' Have I been the only thief ? There are
other things that can be stolen besides
photographs. There are hearts. Oh,
^s^ellie "

The abominable fellow was actually on his
knees. He did it just as if he had been
practising before a mirror.

Excuse me, Mr. Gaunt," again interrupted
Nellie, rising with a dignity that would have
been laughable under less painful circumstances,
" I am Miss Copingstone to all but
my intimate friends."

But "

Mr. Valentine Gaunt was obliged to
scramble to his feet, for Nellie was deliberately
walking out of the room. Standing within
the space enclosed by the three couches, he
looked after her retreating figure with mortification
and anger, his cheek-bones glowing
like live coals. Clearly he had made a
mistake.

Stop ! " he said hoarsely, his hand
fluttering in the air.

Nellie, who had gained the door, turned
and confronted him. Her pale face was
slightly flushed, and her lips were quivering,
but otherwise she showed no sign of agitation.

I thought it more respectful to you," he
went on, " to come to you first. In future I
shall be compelled to approach you through
your father."

It was a comical speech, sounding just as if
he was afraid of her.

Whose money you care for, and not
me," indignantly added Nellie, who understood
the threat. " Do you think that by
persecuting him you are likely to advance

yourself in my estimation ? Oh, I am not
quite blind."

The Rev. Leonard Sterne," announced
Higgins, throwing open the door.

The situation was so obvious that Sterne
hesitated to advance ; but Nellie, glad enough
of the interruption, welcomed him eagerly.
He had only just returned from St. Leonard's,
and, having met the Doctor riding along the
S til bury Road, had come to the Rectory to
see her alone. In this hope he was not
disappointed.

After sitting for some time in gloomy
silence, Mr. Valentine Gaunt at length
departed, with less sprightliness than when
he entered. He had rather expected a check,
but not such a serious one as he had received.
In fact, he now perceived that he had underestimated
Nellie's keenness of penetration —
that the particularly pleasant manner he had
always assumed for her especial benefit had
been altogether wasted. However, he congratulated
himself upon having two strings
to his bow. Doubtless the Doctor would

prove more amenable to reason ; if not,
another application of the screw would do
all that was required. On the whole, Mr.
Yalentine Gaunt saw no cause to despair of
reaching the highest point of the ladder up
which he had been methodically working his
way, and wounded vanity was only an additional
incentive to success. He had already
learnt what could be done by a determined
man, even when starting under very dubious
conditions ; and he felt confident that by
pursuing the same method, always keeping
one end in view and mastering each detail
before passing on to the next, he must reach
his goal eventually.

Sterne's object in calling at the Rectory
was to ascertain the exact wording of the
entry in the family Bible. Nellie had no
difficulty in satisfying him on this point, for
it was deeply imprinted upon her memory.
He wrote down what she dictated to him,
and, without telling her his motive, returned
to his study, where he proceeded to give the
matter his most earnest thought. He lighted

his old briarwood pipe as an aid to reflection,
and, resting his forehead in his hands, began
to pore over his pocket-book, which lay open
upon the writing-table before him.

Here is what perplexed and troubled him :
The entry in the register at Mr. Knight's
church certified the marriage of the Ev.
Cyprian Claude Copingstone, bachelor, to
Mary Burnett, spinster, just two years after
Arnold's birth. Sterne had also succeeded
in finding the registration of Nellie's birth —
but not Arnold's — eighteen months after her
parents' marriage. This latter date he knew
to be correct : at least, so far as the day of
the month was concerned, for he had often
given her presents on her birthday. The one
entry, therefore, tended to corroborate the
other.

On the other hand, according to the family
Bible, the Rev. Claude Cyprian Copingstone,
bachelor, was married in a church near Birmingham
to Mary Morgan, spinster, at a date
four years previous to that mentioned in the
other entry ; and while Arnold's birth was

stated to have occurred two years after the
marriage, Nellie's name was not given at all.
How were these extraordinary contradictions
to be reconciled ? Had the Doctor been
married twice ? If so, what object had hein
concealing the first marriage ? how came
he to be described each time as a bachelor ?
why did he allow Arnold and Nellie to be
regarded as brother and sister ? and why was
not the case fully and frankly stated in the
family Bible ? But perhaps the second
marriage was merely a repetition of the first,
rendered necessary by some strange mistake
in the names. Were it not for the fact that
there is often no small amount of mental confusion
at a wedding, the inversion of the
Doctor's Christian names would really have a
very strong appearance of fraud. Was this
the meaning of " the old Adam " and the
Doctor's aversion to anything likely to bring
him into notice, except among the particular
set from whom his pupils were recruited ?
Finally, did the secret of Mr. Valentine
Gaunt's power lie somewhere within this network

of mysterious circumstances, improbable
as it had appeared at first ?

Such were only a few of the disquieting
questions that passed through Leonard
Sterne's mind, until he grew quite dazed
with following them. There was no sequence
among them, not a single bond of union ;
everything contradicted everything else.
Out of the inextricable entanglement, he
could draw but one clear idea : that he must
make a desperate appeal to the Doctor to
confide in him. Even if his attempt should
be as unsuccessful as experience had taught
him to expect, he would at least clear his
conscience of any reproach of underhand
dealings.

This determination will show that his faith
was as firm as ever, otherwise he would never
have run the risk of having it shattered
completely. No doubt, he still told himself,
when the matter came to be explained, it
would turn out to have been merely some
youthful prank, the consequences of which
had been purposely magnified by Mr. Valentine

Grant until at last they seemed to the
Doctor to threaten his life-long ambition. It
was a charitable theory, yet scarcely a rational
one ; the theory of a true friend, as Sterne
was, almost above all else. He made no
attempt to fit these last discoveries in with it ;
he knew he could not do so at present, and
contented himself with the explanation that
he had not yet sufficient material to work
upon. It was a foolish thing, he felt, to try
to make bricks without straw ; even if he
succeeded, the house built with them would
be a very fragile erection.

So Sterne rose from the writing-table and
went downstairs to the drawing-room window
in order to watch for the Doctor, who shortly
afterwards came jogging along the street,
nodding pleasantly upon all, and sometimes
stopping to chat with one of his poorer
parishioners. As he rode by, some of the
pupils were lolling upon the bridge, and their
faces instantly brightened. Gammon was
bowing and beaming from his doorway, and
opposite stood a number of smiling school

VOL. 11. M

children dropping funny little curtsies, which
were duly acknowledged. If Sterne had
wavered before, such a sight as this could
not have failed to reassure him. The Doctor
had a way of diffusing sunlight wherever he
went, and it was not until he had gone that a
doubt ever arose as to whether it was genuine
or some artificial substitute.

Sterne met him outside the Hut and walked
alongside as far as the Rectory gate, where
the Doctor dismounted. The coachman, who
was always able to calculate his master's
return almost to the minute, took charge of
the cob, and the two clergymen entered the
Rectory.

In the study Sterne narrated what had
come to his knowledge, omitting all reference
to Nellie's share in the matter.

The Doctor looked a little startled at first,
but his expression soon settled down to one
of anxious thought. His habitual promptitude
was due not to want of caution, but to the
fact of his being a quick thinker ; and here
was a new and complicated problem that

could not be solved in a moment. He was
evidently undergoing a severe mental struggle.
While he hesitated, he kept glancing at
Sterne as if he was calculating the probable
effect of each sentence that presented itself.
At length he took up a pen and began to
fidget with it ; a bad sign, very soon verified.

Had the Doctor been less afraid of Sterne's
rigid morality, which admitted forgiveness asa
Christian principle but was apt to ignore it
in point of fact, he would probably have
seized the opportunity of sharing his troubles
with a confidant ; but as it was, he merely
ran away from the difficulty.

You have tumbled upon a mare's nest,
Sterne," he said hurriedly. " I could set you
right if I chose, but I don't see any object in
doing so — rhone at all. And now what did
Sir Kestrel say ? "

-' Well," said Sterne gravely, " if you won't
let your friend help you, he must see what he
can do by himself."

The Doctor looked up uneasily.

Do you doubt me ? " he asked.

Certainly not. But I fear that you
doubt me."

Not at all, my friend, not at all. Pray,
don't misunderstand ray silence. The more
precautions, the fewer accidents. I like to
erect a bulwark against circumstance, which
often makes tools of men, however strong
they may be."

Sterne naturally saw in this casuistry an
admission of what it was meant to deny. He
saw in it, also, an unconscious revelation of
character. The Doctor's general suspiciousness,
then, proceeded from the fact that he
considered mankind to be not inherently bad,
but inherently weak ; and it was a fair inference
that he reasoned — unwittingly perhaps
— from a knowledge of himself. Sterne
felt inclined to resent the imputation in his
own case, but it glanced off without doing
any damage, for he knew that his chief fault
lay in the very opposite direction. At the
same time, he was pleased at having a slightly
better light thrown upon what he regarded
as the most objectionable quality in the

Doctor; and this enabled lin to look at
recent events with a courage that, to others,
might scarcely seem justified by circumstances.

I don't agree with you, Dr. Copingstone,"
he declared firmly. " It is due to myself to
say that ; but I am certainly not so foolish as
to argue against what I know to be a deeply
rooted conviction. I must repeat, however,
that, if I possibly can, I intend to help you
against yourself."

Do your worst, Sterne," laughed the
Doctor, knowing that unless something very
unexpected should turn up, Sterne could do
absolutely nothing. Moreover, it gave him a
certain sense of security to feel that henceforth
he was to have an active ally whose
operations could not be hurtful and might be
beneficial. He was not very clear about the
nature of this possible benefit ; but when a
man is desperate, he seldom pauses for any
logical hair-splitting.

Sterne hesitated on his way to the door.
For one moment, he thought of urging
Nellie's distress as a last argument, but here

again the old obstacle cropped up. The
father must not be provoked into telling the
daughter an untruth for the sake of setting
her mind to rest. Apart from the evil itself,
if she were ever to find it out, her faith and
love would be severely shaken, when she
discovered him to be different from what she
had fondly supposed. Whatever else happened,
this must be avoided. As Sterne had
foreseen all along, he had to act alone. It
was almost a relief to feel that his action
would be quite unhampered. The first thing
to be done was to verify the entries in the
family Bible. They might be incorrect ; at
any rate, the same importance could not be
attached to them as to a formal registration.

He was again sitting in his own study,
when it dawned upon him for the first time
that there was something more in the matter
than he had imagined. The supposed motive
seemed insufficient to account for the Doctor's
obstinate reticence. If it was merely a fear
for the stability of his establishment, why
should he not confide in him who was also

interested in that stability ? Surely there was
something else — something that he wished
for its own sake to hide from the world.
Could he for any reason be ashamed of his
first wife, and anxious to keep her name from
his children ? Sterne pursued this new vein
for some time, leaving out of account, however,
the effect of his own character upon the
Doctor.

His meditations were interrupted by the
entrance of Philip Strathclyde. His bright
young face was much flushed, and he was
evidently in a state of great excitement.

Two gigantic discoveries," he announced.

Have you found out what is Mr. Jostler's
small suggestion ? " laughed Sterne.

"No. But I have found out that Mr.
Gaunt was an actor before he came here, and
that his real name is Valentine."

Indeed ! " observed Sterne, gravely.

Yes ; and now we see why he knew so
much about Shakespeare, and so little about
anything else, and why everything he does is
just like acting,"

Where did you get your information,
Philip ? "

"You remember that French beggar, the
man who startled the Doctor. Well, when
Mildred was outside the Lodge gates this
afternoon, he slouched up and spoke to her
in rather a threatening way. Fortunately I
happened to be close by, so I just collared
him. He called himself Jacques somebody,
and said he wanted to see a Mr. Valentine,
and then it all came out''

I don't see," said Sterne, still restrained
by the old anxiety not to be prejudiced by
jealousy, " that it is of any importance.
There is no reason why a man should not
take another name in addition to his own ;
indeed, he is often obliged by will to do
so. And if Mr. Gaunt was an actor at one
time, that is certainly nothing against his
character."

Sterne was quite free from the old-fashioned
ideas on this subject. As we have already
seen, he was fond of theatre-going himself.

Philip looked sadly disappointed.

I thought the Doctor would have kicked
him out," he said.

He is not in the habit of applying his
Wellington boots to any such purpose," said
Sterne, laughing.

At any rate, it is certain now that this is
Mr. Gaunt's first tutorship ; and if so "

He stopped and looked doubtfully at Sterne.

You must get that idea out of your head,
Philip," said Sterne, warmly.

Philip, he knew, was alluding to the possibility
of the Doctor's having been mixed
up in that affair of the French papers. It
was a charge that he would not entertain fora
single moment. But it brought forcibly to
his mind the strange absence of foreign tutors
from Puddleton, and especially the difficulty
about the testimonials. He had taken neither
of these things into his calculations, and yet
they seemed to call for some explanation.

However, the only chance of success in his
troublesome task lay in his following one
thread at a time. On the next day, the
pupils were to play a cricket-match against

Stilbury ; and as no work would be done,
Sterne determined to seize the opportunity of
going to Birmingham. He could then inspect
the register and return by the last train.

CHAPTER IX.

DRIFTING.

I LAUGH," said M. Dubarri, suiting the
action to the word. "Sapristi! how I laugh ! "

Holding the lappet of his coat with one
hand, and flourishing the other in the air,
he was standing on the hearth rug, shaking
with laughter, which even the noise in the
Harrow Road could not deaden. He had just
returned from his hunt after Mr. Valentine
Gaunt, and had found Arnold lolling on the
couch.

I think I am not a fool," proceeded M.
Dubarri, growing calmer ; " but he is as sly
as a weasel, that rascal Mr. Valentine Gaunt.
You did not know I was after you, eh ? "

I have been so accustomed to see you in

the van that I should never have dreamed of
looking for you in the rear."

He is a cunning rascal. I fear that fellow.
But what is bad for me, is bad for him, too.
We are in the same boat, you know, my
friend."

"" Throw him overboard," drawled Arnold,
"and pray that the sea won't throw him up
again."

J' That is my wish, but he escapes me
always. I watched the train like a lynx. I
saw him get in, and I said to myself, ' Now
I shall have your address, without doubt, my
friend.' So I waited until the last moment
and then crept slyly up, smiling at my cleverness,
and looked in at the window — ma foi
he is gone. The compartment is empty.
How did he do it ? "

He looked as pleased as if he himself had
done something wonderful. Herein, he differed
from the Doctor, who could see no joke
in anything that victimized himself; whereas
M. Dubarri could, if only he could understand
it, and had some one to laugh with him.

Perhaps lie was under the seat," suggested
Arnold.

Mais non' cried M. Dubarri, with a self-satisfied
smile. '' I say to myself : ' You
shall not baffle me there, my friend.' And
so I open the door and search ; but it is
useless."

The idea of M. Dubarri searching for the
portly form of Mr. Yalentine G-aunt under
the seat struck Arnold as so funny that he
began to laugh, and the good-natured old
fellow at once chimed in.

"I saw him enter, I do assure you," he
said ; " the whole time I never took my eyes
away from the door ; and when I went to
look, he was gone. Imagine my astonishment
! He comes without sound ; he goes
without being seen. I begin to fear that
man."

'' He must have slipped out through the
other door by means of a railway-key."

Ah ! " In his excitement he knocked
over a small vase that stood upon the mantelshelf.
It fell to the floor and was broken.

Imported' he exclaimed, shrugging his
shoulders and then brushing the pieces aside
with his foot. For tidiness was not one of
M. Dubarri's virtues.

A slip of paper had tumbled out of the
broken vase. It was the same slip that had
thrown him into a violent state of agitation
on a previous occasion, though Arnold did
not recognize it until he had picked it up and
accidentally read it. The paper was yellow
and crumpled, and the ink faded. It contained
merely the signature, " C. C. Coping-stone."


Arnold perceived the handwriting to be
his father's, and a faint glance of curiosity
came into his eyes, but died out again so
quickly as to escape detection. Leaning back
in his chair, he held out the paper and said
carelessly —

Is this yours ? An uncommon name, I
should think. It would suit a pillar of the
church."

The reverend diable himself," muttered
M. Dubarri, hurriedly thrusting the paper in

his pocket. '^ I hunt for him everywhere —
Tip and down — np and down ; but in vain. I
should like to have him upon toast, as your
English proverb says."

'' Upon toast ? "

*' Yes, poulticed with cayenne-pepper."

"Father warm treatment," observed Arnold,
slowly raising his eyes to look at this ferocious
old fellow. '' What has he done ? "

Let me be frank," said M. Dubarri, as
if it were a task of some difficulty. '' He
has done" — he hesitated, and his little eyes
began to blink — '* nothing, my friend, nothing
at all."

Knowing M. Dubarri to be an able concocter
of fiction, Arnold naturally ascribed
his latest effort to that class. Nothing was
more easily obtained than an autograph, provided
that it was not attached to a promise to
pay ; and upon this possession, M. Dubarri
had evidently constructed some ingenious
theory ; in any case, it was not a thing to
bother one's head about.

There was much of the good-tempered

mastiff about Arnold in character, as well as
in build. When he first heard the uncomplimentary
allusion to his father, he felt
inclined to get up and shake the too loquacious
little Frenchman ; but on second thoughts
decided that it was not worth while, especially
when no insult was intended.

Nothing of any importance occurred until
the following Wednesday afternoon, when
Mr. Valentine Gaunt again appeared, creeping
into the house in the same stealthy way
as before. He was very fond of paying these
flying visits to town. On a half-holiday he
often left Puddleton at the conclusion of work
and returned by the last train at night, or
sometimes by the newspaper train in the
morning. In either case, his absence did not
interfere with his tutorial duties, and the
Invites seemed to be very happy without
him. Latterly, however, at the Doctor's
particular request, he had always asked
Mr. Jostler to act as his substitute when he
intended to be absent all night.

His attitude towards M. Dubarri was most

friendly. He spoke as if he wished the past
to be forgotten ; and the rollicking way in
which, after unfastening the straps of his
travelling-rug, he brought out a bottle of
champagne, was proof of his intention to
make a fresh start. He made no reference to
any peculiarity connected with his departure
on the occasion of his last visit. If there
had been anything of the sort, he preferred
to ignore it.

"Whenever he could do so unobserved, M.
Dubarri blinked at him wonderingly. Though
he had a profound belief in his knowledge of
human nature, he felt that here was a case a
little out of the common. He seemed to have
awakened out of a horrible nightmare to find
that his supposed enemy was, after all, his
friend. What had caused this transformation
? He was wise enough to put sentiment
out of the question. After reflection he concluded
that his recent behaviour had made
his fellow-conspirator afraid of treachery.

There was some truth in M. Dubarri's
conclusion, but Mr. Valentine Gaunt had not

VOL. II. N

misjudged him to this extent. He was still
waiting. It was only when he found it
necessary to clear any obstacles out of his
path, that he became disagreeable — intensely
disagreeable to the obstacles ; and there was
no need to hurry at present. Perhaps he
might attain this end by pleasant means ; if
so, all the better ; if not, he was fully prepared
to strike when the time came. Meanwhile,
his visit was not to M. Dubarri at all,
though it would have the excellent effect of
showing him that he was under observation ;
it was really to Arnold, a terribly sluggish
fellow, who required continual prodding to
keep him moving.

Mr. Valentine Gaunt took the earliest
opportunity of making his purpose clear by
means of a weak ; and after bidding M. Dubarri
a very cordial farewell, sauntered quietly
down the Harrow Road, where he was presently
joined by Arnold. They walked
slowly on towards the station. The street
not being so crowded as usual, it was easy to
see that they were not being followed this

time, tliougli Mr. Yalentine Gaunt threw
many suspicious glances over his shoulder.

He wished to urge, he said, the benefit of
an immediate marriage. He spoke out of the
purest friendship ; indeed, what other motive
could he have ? If money was the objection,
he would gladly place his purse at Arnold's
disposal and only regretted that the sum he
could spare should be so trifling. There was
Hebe spoiling her pretty face by weeping
and pining ; the poor girl was beginning to
look desperately ill ; surely Arnold ought to
have some regard for her feelings ! He didn't
say this reproachfully ; not at all ; only,
being a friend to both, he was able to look
at both sides of the question.

Arnold, however, was not so easily moved.
Knowing nothing about the course of events
in Puddleton, he could not conceive why he
was being urged to take a step that, considering
his present circumstances, would belittle
short of suicidal. Moreover, he had
latterly beguile to doubt the sincerity of Mr.
Yalentine Gaunt's friendship. It seemed

overdone ; the mainspring to which he
sedulously directed attention was scarcely
strong enough to move all the works. He
reminded Arnold of a ventriloquist, guiding
the eyes of his audience to the particular spot
from which he wished them to think the
sound proceeded.

That Mr. Yalentine Gaunt was irritated at
his defeat was clear enough, for he banged a
red-hot explosive at the head of a mechanic
who happened to run against him ; but
when he turned to Arnold he was sweetness
itself.

I suppose money is the obstacle," he said.
*' Well, you know the old adage, Arnold : ' It
is just as easy to feed two mouths as one,'
while, on the other hand, you must remember
that two heads are better than one. Look
what a careless, good-natured fellow you are !
What yon waste, a clever, thrifty wife like
Miss Hebe would save. You are a lucky
fellow, Arnold, you are, indeed ; but come,
I'll say you deserve your luck."

I haven't got it yet," said Arnold.

Still, there it is, ready for yon. Of
course, in advising you to marry, I am going
against my own interests, for I am incurring
the risk of offending your father."

Say no more, Mr. Gaunt," interrupted
Arnold. '' I couldn't allow you to do such
a thing. You have given me the best of
all reasons why I should act on my own
responsibility."

Mr. Valentine Gaunt looked greatly
annoyed. Though he had proceeded with
his usual caution, he had, in some strange
way, contrived to overstep the bounds of
prudence. The worst of it was, he could see
no chance of retrieving his position. He
protested most strenuously that Arnold had
mistaken his meaning ; and brought up a
battalion of arguments to prove his case, but
without the smallest effect. It was really
most vexatious. If he had not been careful
to work out another method, he would have
been in an awkward fix. It was not quite
so safe, for which reason he would rather
have avoided it ; but he would take every

precaution, and, practically, had no alternative.
Before he made his final move, it was absolutely
necessary to prevent the possibility of
an alliance between the Doctor and Arnold.
Doubtless many would think that this had
been accomplished already, but it was just
because he differed from the many that he
had succeeded so far — he liked to '' make
assurance doubly sure."

Mr. Yalentine Graunt soon mastered any
outward expression of disappointment. When
he saw that nothing was to be gained by
continuing the subject, he dropped it, and
assumed the 7^dle of the jovial companion.
He induced Arnold to accompany him to the
station in order to have a parting drink at
the refreshment bar ; and when he left,
carried with him a letter to Hebe, which he
had no intention of delivering. This was
the beginning of his new departure.

Arnold had no suspicion of treachery ;
merely the slight distrust already mentioned.
He waited on the platform, talking to Mr.
Yalentine Gaunt until the guard's whistle

sounded ; and then, with a wave of the
hand, started on his way alone.

The weather had been muggy all day, and
when he got outside the station he found it
had begun to rain. *' Only a shower, sir," a
policeman said ; but instead of waiting,
Arnold pulled up his coat collar and strode
through the heavy drizzle. In the Harrow
Eoad he met M. Dubarri, politely escorting
an old lady, who no doubt found his umbrella
useful, in spite of a big hole in the cover
and its two broken ribs. Though he seldom
went anywhere without the melancholy
umbrella in a silk case, which modestly
concealed its deficiencies, he never used it
except upon such occasions as the present, for
he delighted in rendering these little services.

After bowing the old lady into the postoffice,
he dived into a confectioner's, and,
emerging with a small parcel of sweetmeats
for his young friends, hooked his arm into
Arnold's ; and so the two walked together.

M. Dubarri took up his favourite position
on the hearth rug, with his back to the grate.

He preferred it, because it gave him a commanding
view of the room.

"My friend," he said, unbuttoning his
frock-coat so as to show his waistcoat,
'' observe ! "

He was holding the coat wide open.

I can see nothing," said Arnold in some
perplexity.

M. Dubarri smiled and nodded.

Now observe ! "

And he slapped a handful of silver and
some gold upon the table.

Money ! " said Arnold.

M. Dubarri smiled and nodded again.
When he had returned the coins to his
pocket, he sat down with the air of a conjuror
who has performed a successful trick.

I had no idea the funds had sunk so
low as that," said Arnold, to whom it now
occurred that M. Dubarri's gold chain had
disappeared. " Why didn't you tell me ?
Here, you must take my watch."

But M. Dubarri waved it back. *' fais non
mais non'' he cried. *' Keep your watch,

my friend. We may have to eat it by-an d-
by, but I have a few little things that can goto
the uncle, as you call him, first. What is
the good of two watches in the same house ?
They are a nuisance, for they never agree.
But one — that is another thing entirely."

You are a kind old fellow, M. Dubarri,"
said Arnold, " but you must not prevent me
from contributing to the joint purse. Is that
all the money we have ? "

There are my books."

This is really horrible."

My pupils' said M. Dubarri, stretching
out his hands, " where are they ? I wait for
them and they do not come ; I hunt for them
and find not one ; when I go to interview a
parent, he looks at me with his nose in the
air. ' Bah ! ' he says to himself, ' you grey-bearded
old fellow, you must be a fool or a
knave, or you would not be wanting work at
a shilling an hour.' So nobody will have
anything to do with me. And you, my
friend, those stupid managers will not engage
you. I have no patience with the fellows.

But " — his face brightened wonderfully —
"cheer up, my friend, cheer up. We shall
make our fortunes yet, I do assure you. Let
us 1)0 jolly. I shall go and buy two bloaters
for our supper."

Still smiling, he seized his hat and dashed
out ; but when he found himself alone in the
hall, he stopped to wipe away the moisture
that had been gathering in his eyes. He
soon mastered his weakness, however ; worked
it off by vigorously brushing his frock-coat,
now carefully buttoned to hide the absence
of the gold chain that he had been so fond
of displaying. Then he sallied out with a
cheerful face and a grand air, which, at the
sight of a little girl whom he knew, he
instantly dropped in order to fumble in his
pockets for his parcel of sweetmeats.

Though M. Dubarri had, until now, concealed
the real state of affairs from his young
friend, they had gradually been drifting into
very troubled waters. Before long, starvation
would be staring them in the face. The
one, of course, could fall back upon his father.

and might be driven to do so, however much
he might disHke it after his short struggle
for independence ; but the other had no such
resource. For him, the position seemed well-nigh
desperate. He had already dismissed
the pale-faced servant girl, and cut down the
household expenses to the bare necessaries of
existence; he had quite given up his bottle
of vin ordinaire, and seldom smoked a
cigarette, saying that it no longer agreed
with him ; and though he contrived to have
dinners that made a very fair show, there
was rarely little else. M. Dubarri appeared
to possess the remarkable power of adapting
his appetite to his means ; and now, while he
took care that Arnold was never stinted, he
scarcely ate anything himself. Still, considering
that the day could not be very far
distant when he would not have a morsel of
bread to put into his mouth, it was strange
how the old fellow managed to keep up his
spirits as he did.

In the dark days that followed, he was
sorely tempted to make a few pounds in the

old way. He had once decided that not fora
prince's ransom would he again pass under
the yoke, but now that he compared the
sufferings which were past with those which
were as yet in anticipation, he almost felt
inclined to reconsider his decision. He
thought of the galling journeys — over which
he pretended to laugh — to the pawnshop,
with now a parcel of books, and now an
article of furniture, and, lastly, a bundle of
clothes ; he thought of the time when the
pawnshop would be no longer available — when
scanty dinners had given place to no dinners
at all, and he, a feeble old man, whom
nobody would employ, trudged aimlessly
about the streets, eagerly scanning the gutters
for a fallen copper, or peering wistfully
through a confectioner's window at the things
for the want of which he was starving ; and
then his mind went on to a time when even
this was too much for his wasted strength —
when nothing remained but to crouch in his
cheerless room, praying for a merciful release
at the hands of Death. Truly, an awful

prospect. That he fought against his temptation
at all, shows that his lesson had been a
severe one.

It was fortunate that Air. Valentine <t: :nt
did not know what a powerful ally he had in
this dread of starvation ; when he came to
know, who could say how the struggle would
go ? M. Dubarri guarded his secret with
jealous care; he was always scrupulously
dressed, always cheerful, and the very pink
of politeness. Though liable to brief intervals
of depression, he never really lost hciirt,
which was due in no small measure to a
sanguine expectation that he or Arnold might
tumble into a fortune at any moment. ITe
had not the remotest idea where it was to
come from, but like Mr. Micawber, was
always expecting "something to turn up."
the something being invariably an almost
fabulous amount.

Towards the end of June, a number of
suspicious-looking men got into the habit of
calling at the house. They all had some
thins." to sav for themselves : one mentioned

taxes, another rent, another water, another
gas, and so through all the dismal catalogue.
M. Dubarri received them with great ceremony,
just as if they were honoured guests,
but it made one's heart ache to see his smile
and all the other painful efforts to hide his
distress. He told them frankly that at
present he had scarcely a penny in the world,
but that he expected to have a large fortune
in a short time.

One evening he was in the act of bowing
two of them out — they sometimes hunted in
couples — when the postman stopped at the
door and handed him a letter for Arnold.
It was the first letter that had come for this
strange young fellow, who seemed to have
no past and no family, and whose loneliness
had deeply touched his impressionable companion
as well as excited his curiosity.

M. Dubarri grasped the letter with trembling
eagerness. Here was the long-looked-for
fortune come at last. No child could have
been more excited than he was. He never
gave a thought to the fact that the supposed

good luck was not for him, but for
his friend, their interests having been so
closely allied in the past that he was unable
to dissociate them in the future. When he
had perched his pince-nez on his little turned-up
nose, he inspected the envelope, which
bore the London postmark. The address was
in a woman's handwriting. Not from a
theatrical manager, then. Hee rushed into
the sitting-room, and gave the letter to
Arnold without a word ; he was too agitated
to speak. Then he stood opposite, watching
with intense anxiety.

The letter was from Hebe Pike. It stated,
very briefly, that she was staying with a
married schoolfellow, who lived in Bayswater,
that she had run away from Puddleton in
order to many Arnold at once, and that she
hoped to see him that evening.

Here was a dreadful dilemma. Marry
when he was on the brink of starvation !
And yet how was marriage to be delayed
for even a few days when Hebe had compromised
herself with all her friends and

relations ? What could have induced her to
act in this rash way ? She was usually so
thoughtful.

Well, my friend ? " said M. Dubarri very
sadly, for he had guessed that it was not the
fortune after all.

^^ There is something here that I can't
understand," replied Arnold, rising to his
feet. " I must go and see about it. When
I return, I may be able to explain."

CHAPTER X.

A STRANGE Mission.

It was a glorious June morning ; Oamelback
rising from its lacework festoons into a deep
blue sky, and the Splasliwater gliding down
the green slopes with a merry song, which
the breeze carried softly past the creeper-clad
houses to the sunlit fields beyond. The air
was warm and summer-scented ; it was full
of the indistinct murmur of insect life, so
different from the death-like silence of a
winter day ; and from the copse of fir trees
that formed a pretty background to the
church, with the ivy changing around its
ancient belfry, came the cooing of a wood-pigeon.


In the rustic street the pupils were

VOL. II.

gathered in groups, while a few of the
villagers in cricketing attire were standing
a short distance away. There was young
Joseph Haply who had played for the county ;
and Mr. Smirkee, a famous slogger in county
matches, his knack of putting every ball to
square leg being especially admired ; and
George Whittle, brother of the carrier, who
had acquired a great reputation for long-stopping
the fastest bowling with his unpadded
shins ; and several others, all glancing
dubiously at the " young gentlemen " — uncertain
whether to join them at once on
equal terms, or whether to wait and grow
chummy on the field, or perhaps at " the cold
collation " in the tent. Mr. Valentine Gaunt
also in flannels, though he was not going
to play — was hovering about, chatting pleasantly
to everybody ; and there also, stroking
his long beard, was Mr. Jostler, creating
dreadful panics by bearing down upon each
group in turn with the evident intention of
offering a small suggestion.

When many of the groups had melted

away, an empty fly drove along the street
and stopped at the Hat. It was watched
with curious interest, volleys of questions
were fired at the head of the driver, and
Gammon and the worthy postmaster darted
simultaneously to their respective doors. It
required but a very little thing to raise a
great commotion in Puddleton. Heavisides,
smilingly strumming upon his banjo, sauntered
up in order to inquire who was going
away, and was answered, '' Mr. Sterne, sir."
He resolved to wait, and, after clambering
up the stone pillar of the gate, sat there
strumming.

Heavisides was far too good-natured and
easy-going to have imbibed any of the violent
prejudices against the austere outspoken
clergyman ; prejudices that would never be
allowed to die so long as Mr. Yalentine
Gaunt was to the fore. If they had led to
no open breach of discipline of late, it was
simply because he was engaged in binding
the final cord around the Doctor, before
getting rid — as he firmly meant to do — of a

man whose interests were opposed to his, and
whose force of character would be a constant
source of danger.

Still, notwithstanding the comparative
quietude, Sterne was growing more unpopular.
It was seldom enough that he acted for his
own benefit, and yet everything he did, even
his raid upon the money-lenders, was turned
against him. Yampiretti, whom Sir Kestrel
Hawk absolutely declined to pay, was making
it uncomfortable for his other clients ; and
the Doctor having with his usual adroitness
slipped his own head out of the noose and
substituted Sterne's, the latter found himself
very awkwardly situated. In fact, he had
become a sort of ogre to the pupils, and it
was quite a fashion to say nasty things about
him.

There were some, however — perhaps many,
if the truth were known — who secretly
admired him for having the courage of his
convictions ; and among the number was
Heavisides, whose feelings ran a good deal
deeper than his thoughts. He sometimes

took it into his head to speak out, but as it
was not supposed that he could say anything
worth listening to, he was only laughed at
for his pains. Nevertheless he was not to be
deterred from showing a shy sympathy for
Sterne, and it was with the intention of
playing to him a nigger melody that he had
taken his seat upon the stone pillar in front
of the Hut.

Sitting up there, the good-hearted fellow
was a remarkable object, his broad face beaming
with the mere pleasure of existence upon
this sunny day, and his short cylindrical
figure clad in a velveteen jacket, fancy waistcoat,
and corduroy trousers, the whole surmounted
by a huge Panama straw hat.
Several of his friends stopped to chaff him,
but he merely smiled and went on strumming.

He struck up " Poor dog Tray " — it was
the only tune he could get anywhere near —
when at length Sterne, putting on the
tassel led hat, came running down the steps.
A glance from the pupils standing with their
backs towards him to the quaint musician

was enough to explain the situation ; he felt
touched at the lad's kindness.

Good morning, Mr. Sterne," said Heaves
cheerily. '' Going away ? "

Yes, I'm off to Birmingham. That's a
pretty tune you are playing."

I like it ; and I think I'm a little better
at the banjo than I am at Latin." On the
previous day, he had translated " Arma
virumque cano " as *' A man with an arm
and a dog." He gave a sort of nervous
chuckle at the reminiscence.

Sterne, also, could not resist a smile.
You like the banjo," he said kindly, " and
you don't like Latin ; that makes all the
difference. But if you'll only give your
heart to your work, I think we'll manage to
pull you through your examination yet."

Thank you, Mr. Sterne. That's more than
Mr. Gaunt ever said."

He scrambled down from his perch and, as
Sterne took his seat in the open fly, grasped
his hand.

And now the others, who had been watching

this little scene from a distance, came
trickling up. They looked very sheepish at
first, but a few kind words set them at their
ease, and they were soon talking together
like a number of old friends. Indeed, it was
quite like old times again. When the fly
drove away, they all joined with Heavisides,
who was radiant with delight, in wishing the
clergyman a pleasant journey.

The incident made a deeper impression
upon Sterne than he would have cared to
admit. He had neither the Doctor's love of
popularity for its own sake, nor Mr. Valentine
Gaunt's for the sake of its power ; but like
most of us who respect ourselves, he fully
appreciated the respect of others. Their
approval made his path far smoother ; it
transformed a wearisome task into a real
pleasure. So it was with a lighter heart
than he had had for many a long day, that
Sterne started on his mission. And what a
strange mission it was ! he reflected. To
find out something in the life of a friend
who, by a few words, could save him all the

trouble ! To help that friend, it almost'
seemed, against his own wish ! But was not
he doing unto others only what he would
have them do unto him ? Possibly the strong
vein of enthusiasm in his nature was apt to
lead him into extravagances ; the pupils
thought so when he tilted against the many
abuses in vogue ; the parishioners thought so
when, in the teeth of a powerful opposition,
led by Mr. Pike, the people's churchwarden,
he reformed the service by the introduction
of a surpliced choir and good music ; but
he differed from them both, and held that he
was right, as firmly now as he had ever
done. And surely it was no extravagance to
help his friend, if not for his sake, at least
for his daughter's ! There could be no doubt
that the Doctor was every day finding his
burden heavier to bear ; jet, unless something
were done, its weight would soon be
increased tenfold, for that little scene in the
Eectory drawing-room showed plainly Mr.
Yalentine Gaunt's intentions. He was the
cause of all the mischief — yes, Sterne felt he

could say it dispassionately now — and if he
were only out of the place, a better order of
things would again prevail ; the pupils, as he
had just seen, being easily led, and really
good fellows at heart.

While the fly was passing the cricket-field,
Sterne stood up to watch what was going on.
It was a large square meadow, family level
in the centre, but very rough near the offences,
which were flanked by lofty poplars,
framing here a red-brick cottage, embedded
in an orchard, and there a picture of golden
corn and scarlet poppies.

Some gipsies had erected an " Aunt Sally "
in one corner of the field, and a number of
the pupils and villagers were shying at
cocoanut ; several others were having a
preliminary practice in out-of-the-way spots ;
and near the gate was a large tent, in front
of which some smock-frocked old fellows were
sitting on benches, watching the game with
a very solemn and critical air, sometimes
shaking their heads sadly, as if modern
cricket were a sorry sight, and it were indeed

a melancholy thing for them to be obliged to
witness it. At intervals they were so overcome
that they had to take refuge in great
mugs of beer, which stood in the grass at
their feet. Even when Mr. Smirkee, who
happened to be in, ran out and slogged the
Stilbury slow bowler out of the field — when
everybody else, amid a profound hush, was
watching the ball in its flight over the
poplars, these dismal old fellows were still
shaking their heads ; and one of them pointed
to a distant field as if it were quite an
ordinary occurrence in his day to put a ball
there. Instead of joining in the applause
when Mr. Smirkee came out to refresh himself
with a glass of beer after his supreme effort,
they again fell back upon their mugs.

And so they passed out of Sterne's sight.
He was sorry to part with them, for he was
an enthusiastic cricketer and would have
been playing to-day had it not been for his
self-imposed task.

He was on the point of sitting down, when,
chancing to look on the other side of the

road, he caught a glimpse of a tall thin
figure, in a high sloping hat, that he knew
well. It was the Doctor, standing with bent
head behind the fence. Nellie was with him,
and her head also was bent down, though it
could not have been seen from the road if
she had stood on tiptoe. The Doctor always
made a practice of watching the cricket for
an hour or so ; and, with this intention, had
evidently followed the path across the fields,
and was about to pass through the wicket-gate
close to which he was hiding. But
why ? He looked ill and white and worn,
Sterne thought, and yet there was a sly
twinkle in his eyes. He was not watching
the fly now, but perhaps had been doing so
and did not expect its occupant to turn
round. He seemed amused rather than
alarmed. There was a smile, too, on Nellie's
pretty face, and she had laid the tip of her
finger on her rosy lips as if to enforce silence.
Sterne glanced behind, and the mystery
was explained. Mr. Jostler, if you please,
prowling about in search of somebody to

deliver a speech to. As bad luck would
have it, he took it into his head to look over
the gate ; and the last that Sterne saw of
him was trying to button-hole the Doctor.
To the astonishment of his driver, he burst
out laughing. If we had only these little
troubles to contend against, he thought, what
a delightful world it would be !

In less than an hour Sterne was being-whirled
away towards the Black Country. It
was not a very long journey that lay before
him, and he had arranged to travel by a fast
train, with only one change. He expected
to reach his destination early in the afternoon.
But before that time arrived a fog
seemed to rise out of the earth and gradually
to increase in density. Heavy clouds hung
over the horizon, and presently the sun
became merely a red globe suspended in the
dingiest of skies. Then arose a forest of tall
chimneys, filling the air with smoke, and all
the ground around was black as night. The
very cottages that clustered around the
factories, were black ; and nature seemed to

have dwindled down to a monotony of rubbish
interspersed with pools of inky water.
But after a while the sun began to look more
respectable again ; and the train, after stopping
at several insignificant stations, rushed
into Birmingham, a town of many miserable
streets and many magnificent buildings.

In Stephenson Place, a short street running-down
to the station, there was a perfect mob
of iron-masters and metal-brokers, haggling
over " pigs " as if they were pork-merchants.
They were gathered so thickly around the
Exchange that Sterne had great difficulty in
pushing his way through them. He had at
first intended to adopt the cheaper plan of
walking to his destination ; but when he
reached the cab-stand at the top of the street,
changed his mind and entered a hansom, drawn
by a very wooden-legged horse. There was
a fashionably dressed crowd in New Street,
carriages were rattling to and fro, and the
number of ladies bent on shopping this fine
afternoon was really astonishing. They all
passed before Leonard Sterne as in a dream.

and when he arrived in a prettily wooded
country, with handsome houses peeping from
bowers of trees, he was still more surprised,
for he had expected to see little beyond
grimy workshops and smoke.

It was at a picturesque old church, with a
picturesque old Eectory close by, that the
hansom eventually stopped. After telling
the driver to wait, Sterne alighted and
entered the churchyard in order to explore.
At the same moment the Rector, with a
bunch of heavy keys in this hand, appeared
in the porch. He was a short, stout, 
old man, who carried his
head on one side like a sparrow. He introduced
himself as Mr. Nash, and he and
Sterne were soon on a very friendly footing.

Oh yes," said Mr. Nash, in answer to
Sterne's inquiry, " I remember Mr. Coping-stone
very well indeed, a tall, thin man, with
a shrewd face and a peculiar laugh. He was
curate here when I was presented to the
living, but he resigned shortly afterwards."

Why was that ? "

"Well, to tell the truth, I don't think he
cared much about church work. And then
he got married, took that house over yonder"
he walked to the corner of the church, and,
laying his head still more on one side, pointed
to a house about two hundred yards down
the road —sand confined his attention to
teaching two or three pupils. He left rather
suddenly, and nobody knew why."

And what family had he then, Mr.
Nash ? "

Oh ! only a wife and a son about four
years old. I baptized the child myself, and
can show you the entry, if you like, Mr.
Sterne. It will enable us to approximate to
his age, at any rate."

This affable old gentleman, who evidently
supposed the Doctor to be no longer alive,
seemed very pleased to act the showman.
He trotted into the porch, the keys jangling
by his side, and trotted up the aisle, pausing
now and again to point out the beauties of
his church, and finally trotted into the vestry ;
a very similar cell to that other in Hastings,

but without the bottled-up smell of stale
umbrellas.

Sterue followed in a dazed, wondering way.
The farther he wandered into this mystery,
the more bewildering it became. It was now
clear that when the Doctor left Birmingham,
he went almost direct to Puddleton, for there
was a difference of only a couple of months
between the two dates. Yet he had left
with only a single child, Arnold, and arrived
with two children, Arnold and Nellie, the
latter being then a year old.

Sterne was shown the registration not only
of Arnold's baptism, but also of the marriage
of the Rev. Claude Cyprian Copingstone to
Mary Morgan, and both corresponded with
the entries in the family Bible. It was
really a very shocking entanglement. If any
reliance could be placed upon documentary
evidence, the Doctor had married a second
wife while his first was still alive and had
contrived to keep two families going at the
same time. This was quite incredible. Then,
had he, owing to some informality in the

names, married the same wife a second time ?
But if so, where did Nellie come from ? On
the other hand, unless there was something
wrong, how was Mr. Valentine Gaunt's power
to be explained ?

'' Would you tell me, Mr. Nash," asked
Sterne, desperately, " what Miss Morgan — I
mean Mrs. Copingstone, was like ? "

Mr. Nash complied with alacrity. His
description satisfied Sterne that she was the
Mrs. CojDingstone whom he had known.

Do you know anything about her relations
? " he inquired.

No, nothing. But I rather fancy that
she was an orphan. She came here as a
governess to a family who some years ago
migrated to Australia ; but she was with
them only a short time. Mr. Copingstone
had a very prompt way of doing things,"
said Mr. Nash, laughing. " He came, saw,
and conquered Miss Morgan. The courtship
lasted about a week ; then the engagement
was announced, and the house taken ; and a
fortnight later they were married."

VOL. II. p

It was just like the Doctor. Sterne was
obliged to smile, strange as the whole affair
was.

I married them myself," pursued the old
clergyman, rubbing his hands and smiling as
if he were recalling a particularly pleasant
incident, " and a quieter, more business-like
wedding I have never officiated at. Let me
see, he must have been ordained then about
ah," and he cocked his head to peer up at
a shelf above the table, " I have an old
clerical directory there : that will tell us."

Sterne was placed in a dilemma, though
this was nothing new. He scarcely liked to
say that the Doctor's name was not in the
directory, and yet it seemed almost deceitful
to remain silent. While he was hesitating,
however, Mr. Nash had mounted a chair, and
brought down the book. He opened it and,
turning to the proper page, laid his finger
upon it.

Here, you see "

Indeed ! " interrupted Sterne, in great
confusion. And hastily bending over the

directory, he beheld the name of the Rev.
Claude Cyprian Copingstone. He could
scarcely believe his own eyes, it was such an
astonishing thing. Was the Doctor really
hiding in Puddleton ? It seemed very like
it. If so, for some absurdly exaggerated
reason, of course, but what could it be ?

•' Have you any other old directories ? "
asked Sterne.

Yes, 1 have one in my library : for the
year after Mr. Copingstone left here, I think.
Come along and see it. And, dear me; what
a forgetful man 1 am. You must be hungry
after your journey. My wife will give you
something to eat."

And so chatting, the old clergyman trotted
off again, turning his head round occasionally
to peep at his companion. He stopped to
lock the church door, and, when Sterne had
beckoned to the cabman to follow them to
the Eectory, they proceeded there together.

Mr. Nash was a very lively old gentleman.
He had ushered his visitor into the library,
and found the directory before Sterne had

had time to look about him. For a moment
or two he hesitated to open the book ; and
when he did so, was scarcely surprised to
find that the name of the Eev. Claude Cyprian
Copingstone was omitted.

CHAPTER XI.

hebe's flight.

Hebe's flight, wliicli occurred a few days
after Sterne's return from Birmingham,
created a great commotion in Puddleton.
The village gossips, not caring to plead
ignorance, looked marvellously knowing
about it : all except Mr. Yalentine Gaunt,
who showed as much surprise when he was
told the news for the hundredth time as
when it was first announced to him. " It
really was a most unaccountable thing," he
declared. Whereupon Gammon, Whittle, and
the rest proceeded to enlighten him. " Hebe,"
they said, putting forward their conjectures
as facts, " had run away to marry Arnold at
Oxford, because she was ill-treated at home."

Mr. Valentine Gaunt replied that he could
not believe it.

It was about seven o'clock in the evening
when the rumour first began to get abroad.
Who started it, nobody seemed to know, but
it soon spread like wildfire. When the sun
settled down in the glowing west and the
shadows of the poplars stretched far over the
silent fields, the village street was filled with
groups, all eagerly discussing this marvel.
There were the pupils with their fox-terriers ;
smock-frocked old fellows with hoes over
their shoulders ; young men just returned
from the cricket-field ; women with babies in
their arms ; and among them all moved a
line of sleek cows, driven by a rosy-cheeked
little girl.

Mr. Pike's house was, of course, the chief
centre of interest. It was a pretty two-storied
building with lattice windows and a
profusion of Virginian creeper. Shrinking
modestly from the public gaze, it stood in an
old-fashioned garden, and there was a large
chestnut tree planted before the door. Gammon,

Whittle, and many others were standing
not very far away, watching it curiously.
At the same time, more than one wore an
air of great importance, as becoming the
possessors of special information.

Though he had attached no particular significance
to the fact until now, it appeared
that Whittle had during the last week conveyed
three boxes for Hebe to Stilbury, to be
left at the station till called for. It was also
ascertained from Mr. Smirkee that she had not
hired a vehicle from him ; and as Gammon
had observed her starting to walk towards
Stilbury about noon, since which time no one
had seen her, it was clear that she had gone
on foot. This settled the manner of her
departure, and also the fact that she had
carefully arranged it beforehand.

That, sirs, I know for certain," announced
Joseph Haply, determined not to be beaten
in the production of news. He paused and
dealt out a lofty smile to everybody alike,
before he added : " And I'll tell you why."

Ah ! " said Gammon, " I thought the

postmaster had got something on his mind,
for he's been going about all the afternoon
like a pig that's ripe for the knife."

The postmaster acknowledged the compliment
with a grunt of satisfaction. He
was very red in the face and very round in
the body, and he lurched about like an old
Dutch brig in a smart breeze.

Well," he said, the roll in his voice hint-mor
at an intention to make the most of his

o

news, '' it was yesterday morning about half-past
eleven, or maybe a few minutes after ;
anyway, I was in the shop at the time,
getting a penny bottle of ink for Mrs. James
Hodge, though I rather think it was meant
for James himself, and my daughter had just
gone out to see after the despatch of the mail,
when who should come in but Miss Hebe
herself in a blue dress — you'll remember the
one she sometimes wears, Mr. Grammon ? "

Ay, ay ! but what are you driving at,
postmaster ? " The butcher spoke rather
impatiently, fur he felt that such rigid
accuracy was out of place.

Driving at ? Ain't I telling you as fast
as I can? When I had finished off Mrs.
James Hodge, I crossed the shop to attend to
Miss Hebe — she was standing at the postoffice
counter — and what do you think, sir,
she said to me ? "

Oh, get along, postmaster, do ! " exclaimed
Gammon. '' How do we know ? "

You might guess, anyway. She said she
wanted to draw all her money — a tidy sum,
mind you — out of the savings bank."

He stopped in annoyance, for he had
suddenly lost the attention of his audience.
They were gazing at the pretty two-storied
house that sheltered itself behind the chestnut
tree.

The door was open, and framed among the
Virginian creeper stood Mr. Pike, with his
inquiring nose, big moustache, and painfully
stiff collar. He turned the whole of his short
plump body to look up the street, and then
turned it to look down the street, and seeing
the number of people about, he hesitated.
But somebody, probably his wife, spoke to

him from the house, and he strutted out
more pompously than ever.

It was a dreadful thing that he had just
returned to hear — Hebe disgraced in the eyes
of all who knew her ! No doubt he would
have welcomed her marriage with Arnold ;
and perhaps, suspecting their attachment, he
was to blame for not having insisted upon its
being either recognized or else broken off
entirely. But this disaster was surely a
severe penalty to pay for want of judgment.
He felt only sorrow and pity for his daughter ;
but he was very bitter indeed against Arnold,
who, he was convinced, had induced her to
commit this rash act. If it had not been too
late to catch a train from Stilbury, he would
have started for Oxford at once, tired as he
was with a long drive. He meant to go next
morning, and meanwhile to have it out with
the Doctor.

Arnold was generally supposed to be still
at the University. Philip knew that he was
not there, and was greatly exercised in his
mind as to how he should act. So also did

Mr. Valentine Gaunt, who intended to turn
his knowledge to good account. But all the
others were utterly in the dark, so successful
had been the deception practised by the
foolish old Doctor, who continued playing off
the same miserable devices in the hope of
finding his son. The approach of the Long
Vacation had thrown him into great difficulties.
New excuses had to be invented ; he had to
plunge deeper into the mire, while Mr.
Valentine Graunt stood and looked on with a
detestable smile on his detestable face ; and
now, as if bis troubles had not been bad
enough, here was Hebe running away.

The news gave the Doctor a terrible shock ;
he could no longer doubt that she and Arnold
had been in correspondence, though since
intercepting the one letter he had felt safe in
that respect. It was equally certain that the
two were bent upon getting married. He
had not the smallest idea of Arnold's occupation,
tuition being the only thing that occurred
to him, but it gave him some comfort to
think that his son, badly as he had behaved,

was not embarrassed by financial difficulties,
otherwise he would never dream of marriage.

When the Doctor could look at the matter
more calmly, he was not so sure that he had
viewed Hebe's flight in the project light.
There is usually something to track a woman
by when she travels : a railway porter who
has toiled under her luggage, a cabman
whom she has ground down to the uttermost
farthing, another to whom she has cheerfully
paid double fare, and often a paper parcel or
bandbox dropped here and there along the
route.

Was not it likely, then, that Hebe might
give a clue to Arnold's address ? The firm
of private detectives who had all along been
engaged in the search, with the result of
periodically finding the wrong person, would
now have something to work upon. If the
young couple where discovered before the
marriage, it might be nipped in the bud,
notwithstanding the fact that both were over
age, Hebe only just. After all, the prospect
might be worse.

But the Doctor forgot Mr. Pike, who was
pretty certain to follow in this daughter's
track. If he were to find the young couple, no
end of unpleasant complications might ensue.

Mr. Pike strutted up the street as if he
were moved by springs, and the way in
which he twisted his body round to exchange
'' Good evening " with first one acquaintance
and then another only added to the effect.
He never had been so pompous before ; and
yet the poor old man was merely trying to
check his excessive nervousness. It was no
easy matter to appear composed before all
those curious watchers, especially when he
knew what they had been talking about. It
would be difficult to say whether the pitying
looks of the women or the half-amused looks
of the men were the harder to bear.

Of the many marks of sympathy shown to
him, the one that affected him most was a
glimpse of Mr. Yalentine Gaunt gliding
swiftly into Whittle's shop at his approach.
It was, he felt, the act of a thorough gentleman,
quick to penetrate the feelings of others

and equally quick to humour them. All that
he wanted was to he left alone with his
trouble — to go his way unseen and unspoken
to ; and this nobody seemed to realize except
Mr. Yalentine Gaunt. There was a strange
mist in Mr. Pike's eyes as he reached the
Rectory gate. He paused, ostensibly for the
purpose of polishing his bald head, but really
to brighten his vision. But when he remembered
the object of his visit, his face
Hardened again ; he put his handkerchief
away, strutted up to the door, and knocked.

By means of an ingenious arrangement of
mirrors, not easily detected by those ignorant
of the secret, the Doctor, while sitting at the
writing-table in his study, could see any one
entering the Eectory. He was, therefore,
quite prepared when the lawyer was
announced by Higgins. Having a strong
objection to being taken unawares, his
impromptus were generally the result of
careful forethought. He had no difficulty in
guessing the object of this visit ; and as he
was as ready to defend Arnold and attack

Hebe as Mr. Pike was to attack Arnold and
defend Hebe, some lively skirmishing ensued.

If Mr. Pike was polite, the Doctor was
urbanity itself. He insisted upon his visitor's
taking the armchair, which he placed facing
the light, while he himself took, a less
comfortable seat with his back to the
window. Neither seemed inclined to approach
the subject of their thoughts, but at length
Mr. Pike ventured on the ice.

'' You may have heard, Dr. Copingstone,"
he said, sitting bolt upright, " that my
daughter has disappeared ? "

'^ Indeed — indeed ! A rumour to that
effect has reached me, but I could scarcely
credit it." Though he certainly had a fellow-feeling
for the bereaved father, he felt that
he must look to his own interests. " I
sincerely trust you have not come to confirm
it."

Mr. Pike shook his head.

I am so sorry," said the Doctor, " so very
sorry, that I scarcely know what to say byway
of consolation."

It is reported in the village that she has
gone away to be married to your son."

The Doctor looked astounded.

Scandal," he said, " an absurd scandal.
I'm sure you'll agree with that, Mr. Pike."

Then what action do you propose to take
in the matter ? "

None at all. I can afford to despise it."

But I can't, Dr. Copingstone," returned
Mr. Pike, warmly, " for the reputation of my
daughter is at stake. She has been wheedled
into this disgraceful act by your son "

Hold there, Mr. Pike ! " said the Doctor
sternly, with an imperious gesture. " Before
you go any further, give me the proof of that
statement."

Mr. Pike turned very red in the face. In
the capacity of a father he had committed a
most unprofessional blunder.

^' There was," he stammered, " a strong
attachment between them "

'' Hold there again, Mr. Pike ! Have they
been in correspondence during the last nine
months ? "

*' Not to my knowledge."

Quite so ; otherwise I am sure you would
have interfered. And what is more, if any
letters had passed between them, the fact
would have been known to everybody in the
village."

They might have been directed to a third
person. At any rate, there is only one way
to settle the matter. I am going to Oxford
tomorrow. Your son is there now, I
suppose ? "

"No, Mr. Pike, he is not. The Long
Vacation has commenced."

Then," said Mr. Pike, courteously, for he
was pleased at his escape from an untenable
position, " will you kindly oblige me with his
address ? "

He might just as well set about fishing for
the sea-serpent with mackerel tackle. The
Doctor, placed in a difficulty from which
nothing but virtuous indignation upon some
side issue could save him, rose to his feet.
And then, laying his hand upon the back of
his chair, this tall, thin, grey-haired clergy-vol.

II. Q

man looked down upon the pompous little
bald-headed lawyer, who was suffering from
a very similar heart-ache, and said, haughtily —

*'No, sir, I'll do nothing of the sort. If
you can't trust your daughter, I hope I can
trust my son."

The storm was tropical in its suddenness
and severity, but the heat was artificial. It
was almost as surprising as a tornado in a
hot-house would be.

When the first shock of astonishment had
passed away, Mr. Pike also stood up — very
carefully, because of his stiff collar. The
hand that held his hat was trembling, as if
he had been stricken with the ague; the other
was clasping the border of his coat. Angry
as he looked, he was determined to control
his feelings, one mistake being quite enough.

A word before I go, Dr. Copingstone,"
he said hoarsely.

The Doctor walked to the bell and rang it.

'• If," continued Mr. Pike, ^' my daughter
comes to any harm at your son's hands, you
shall rue it to the last day of your life."

The door opened and Higgins stood there,
bowing his white head, and looking the
very picture of polished ease, yet watchful
withal ; a strange contrast to the lawyer and
the clergyman.

Door, Higgins," said the Doctor.

Mr. Pike gave him one angry look, and
then strutted out into the dusky twilight,
which was lending a new beauty to the
landscape. It was some comfort to see that
fewer people were standing about, though
every door and window was wide open. On
his way down the street, he passed irresolutely
in front of the Hut. Should he make an
appeal to Sterne ? But no, the whole lot of
them were leagued together ; there was no
more chance of getting the truth out of one
than out of another. He must depend solely
upon his own resources. First of all, he
would go to London — that huge bundle of
hay where every missing needle is supposed
to be hidden — and search high and low until
he had found Hebe; and if she and Arnold
should be together, he would then have a

safe position from wliicli to attack the
Doctor.

It was a sad evening for the lawyer and
his wife. They were angry with the Doctor
and his family, angry with his tutors, angry
even with his pupils whose shouts they
occasionally heard outside ; hut when they
thought of their absent daughter, they were
melted to tears. If the dangers that they
dreaded were only imaginary, they were none
the less terrible. In answer to a telegram sent
to the station-master at Stilbury, they learned
that Hebe had claimed her boxes there and
taken a ticket for London. More than this
they did not know. But both felt certain
that she had gone to Arnold, wherever he was.

Meanwhile the Doctor, left in possession of
the field, behaved very unlike a conqueror.
He drew the armchair up to the writing-table,
sank wearily into it, and rested his
head in his hands. His sigh was full of
heaviness, and the expression of his face
was like that of a hunted animal. He was
beginning to doubt the efficacy of his own

cunning — to wonder whether, after all, a
straightforward course was not the best in
the long run. Continually dogged by Mr.
Valentine Gaunt, he knew not which way to
turn ; every step he took only plunged him
into worse difficulties. Yet how could he
retreat now ? How could he acknowledge
that for months and months he had been
deceiving the whole parish ? It was such a
little thing at first, and the motive was so
admirable ; and yet what a fearful web it had
woven around him ! It had embroiled him
with at least one of his parishioners ; it
threatened the safety of his establishment ; it
had ruined his life.

Regarding the cure of souls as an inefficient
remedy for the social leprosy of poverty, the
Doctor was a tutor first, and a clergyman
afterwards, though he never lost sight of the
possibility of a bishopric when useful interest
was in the foreground. The Rector imparted
to the tutor a good standing in society, a
graceful dignity and an irreproachable character,
while the mere tenure of office enabled

him to discharge his clerical functions, all
those that required any trouble being performed
by Leonard Sterne who acted as the
Doctor's scapegoat generally, this no doubt
being considered in his salary.

At the same time, while the parishioners
were of secondary importance, the Doctor
was not indifferent to their opinion. He was
not content with being a potentate ; he wished
to be a popular one. So far he had succeeded ;
but what would be the result if Mr. Pike were
to discover the deception about Arnold and
spread it abroad ? If there was any radical
change in the Doctor's nature, it was very
slight. He dreaded the scorn of the simple
villagers, the steel vice of Mr. Valentine
Gaunt, and the possible loss of his pupils
when their parents came to hear of what had
happened ; but there his repentance stopped.
It takes a great deal to grind " the old
Adam " out of a man, if indeed it ever can
be done completely.

The Doctor was very miserable — nearly
heart-broken, in fact. It seemed a hard

thing that lie could not get rid of the consequences
of an act which, at any rate, he
had performed with the best intentions.
Though sorry for it now, he was nevertheless
obliged to go on in the same way merely to
hide that one act ; plumping down one thing
on the top of another until the whole resembled
a nest of Indian boxes, almost
interminable in number, those outside very
large in size, and all for the purpose of
containing the tiniest box imaginable. Was
not there some way of throwing off this
galling yoke ? The Doctor groaned as he
thought of it.

Father ! '' said a gentle voice, and a soft
arm stole round his neck.

He started and looked up to behold Nellie
gazing down upon him, her blue eyes brimful
of yearning love and pity. Such a dainty
winsome maiden she looked, standing there,
nestling to his side ; but oh, so pale and
sorrowful. She laid her lips upon his forehead
and kissed him tenderly.

Father, won't you tell me what troubles

you," lie pleaded, '' and let me help you ? If
I can't help you, mayn't I suffer with you ? "

"Why, darling," said the Doctor, fondly
stroking her beautiful dark hair, " what
makes you think there is anything the
matter ? "

Because I can see."

"You little rogue," he said, with his
peculiar gasping laugh. " You see far too
much at times. Those pretty eyes of yours
are apt to make very big things of very
little."

He could so easily assume this light tone
that Nellie ought not to have been surprised,
yet she looked sadly disappointed. Why
would he persist in hiding his secrets from
her ? And then it occurred to her that she
was hiding a secret from him. If she were
to take him into her confidence, might it not
induce him to do the same, when perhaps
everything would be delightfully explained ?
Nellie raised her head for a moment to peer
wistfully into his keen grey eyes. Then her
cheeks turned crimson, and she laid her face

against her father's, lest he should notice her
confusion.

Are you worrying about me ? " she asked.
Some time ago I found that my name is not
in the family Bible up there."

Not in the family Bible ! " he exclaimed
in a great fluster. It was hard, terribly hard
that this thing should be forced upon him
when he was so anxious to turn over a new
leaf. " Dear me — dear me ! " said he, rubbing
his forehead with his handkerchief. " What
a strange omission. You have not been
puzzling your dear little head over that,
darling, surely ? "

And now a shadow darkened the doorway,
the door being open, and with stealthy tread
Mr. Valentine Gaunt hovered into the room.
Neither of the two by the writing-table was
aware of his entrance. For a few moments
he stood watching them with a sinister smile.
Nellie's face was pressed lovingly against the
Doctor's, and her arm was around his neck.
Surely not a sight to smile at otherwise than
with kindly sympathy.

** Good evening," said Mr. Valentine Gaunt.

The grouping altered instantaneously. The
Doctor threw himself back in his chair with
a look of alarm, while Nellie instinctively
confronted the intruder as if she would protect
her father from him.

CHAPTER XII.

FORCED TO MARRY.

About the time that Mr. Pike was interviewing
the Doctor in Puddleton, Arnold was
being received by Hebe in the drawing-room
of a small house in Bayswater. Such a pretty
little thing she looked, standing by the side
of the great tall fellow whose arm was around
her waist, her head of golden hair resting
upon his breast, a smile on the bright young
face, the tiny mouth slightly open, and a
half-timid, half-mischievous expression in the
brown eyes that watched him so anxiously.
For a while they stood thus; and then she
led him to a seat by the window, which looked
out upon a leafy square.

It was a strange tale that she had to tell

him : a tale that stirred this blood as it had
never been stirred before. And yet for her
sake he was obliged to listen and answer her
eager questions, just as if he knew all about
it : an easier task for him with his impenetrable
gravity than it would have been for
many another.

Hebe, it appeared, had recently been receiving
from him a number of alarming
messages, imploring her to come to him at
once, and even hinting that, in case she failed
to comply, he contemplated putting an end
to his existence with a razor. The poor girl
was naturally terrified. She wrote the most
pitiful letters, begging of him not to urge
her to do what would certainly pain her
parents, and entreating him to have patience ;
but the only result in each case was another
message, even more urgent than the last.
She began to think his brain was affected ;
many little things confirming this view were
pointed out to her ; and after a desperate
struggle she yielded. Indeed, she had by
this time come to believe that it was her duty

to do SO, in order to prevent him from laying
violent hands upon himself ; she was further
influenced by the knowledge that her parents
had no objection to the marriage in itself,
while she felt confident they would forgive
her when matters were explained. Mr.
Valentine Gaunt had also assured her that
he could easily make it all right with the
Doctor, and that it would give him an excellent
opportunity for reconciling father and
son. In short, Hebe had been brought to
regard her flight as an act which, though it
might cause a very brief inconvenience to
her parents, would end in a sort of general
jubilee. But, she asked Arnold, what made
him take to sending oral messages, instead
of letters ?

Arnold felt that the only course open to
him was to play Mr. Valentine Gaunt's game.
He must marry Hebe just as if he actually
had sent for her. He could not put the girl
he loved to shame by telling her of the heartless
fraud that had been practised upon her.
This he determined she should never know,

if he could prevent it. He must appropriate
acts that he had never committed, and words
that he had never uttered ; he must find outby
careful examination all that he was supposed
to have said or done ; and he must
answer her awkward questions as best he
could. Not that he meant to forego a reckoning
with Mr. Valentine Gaunt ; only it was
to be managed privately, the time and manner
being: left to future consideration.

But then there was the question of money.
He really was in a most horrible predicament.
The proceeds of M. Dubarri's watch would
last but a short time ; his own watch might
enable them to keep the wolf from the door
a little longer ; the rest of their belongings
would scarcely fetch a ten-pound note ; and
after that ? And yet he was thinking of
marrying — could not help marrying indeed !
Surely Hebe could not know his circumstances.
She must have been deceived in
this respect also ; and if so, when she learnt
how affairs really stood, she would at once
suspect the whole truth, and all his endeavours

to keep it from her would have
been in vain.

"Hebe," drawled Arnold, raising those
solemn grey eyes of his to her sunny face,
I am not exactly a wealthy man at present."

Oh ! we shall only want a tiny, tiny
house, something like this. But we must
have a square in front, Arnold." Hebe's
notions of the value of money were somewhat
primitive. The rent of " this house " was
a hundred a year.

In fact," he went on, reflecting her smile,
I have nothing to do just now."

Oh, how sweet ! " cried Hebe, clasping
her little hands, and looking at him with shy
pride. " Oh, how delicious ! Then I shall
have you all to myself."

^' I didn't say anything about it in my
letters or messages "

No ; but I'm so glad."

It was now evident that Mr. Yalentine
G-aunt had played his cards with consummate
skill. He had said just enough for his purpose,
but no more. He had calculated that

Arnold — to whom his object was a most incomprehensible
mystery — would be compelled
to take up his words and deeds and marry
Hebe, in spite of himself; so he had said
nothing likely to lead to explanation and
consequently hinder the marriage. Everything
was turning out as be had anticipated :
so carefully had his plans been laid.

"" What a sweet little house that is over
there ! " exclaimed Hebe, enthusiastically,
pointing across the square. As Arnold made
no response, she added, coaxingly : '^ And I do
declare it is to be let. Oh, Arnold, shall we
take it ? Look at the ivy and the low
windows and the tiny conservatory, and all ;
and I should so like to live near Minnie."

He had scarcely the heart to undeceive
her ; but it had to be done. What would
she say when he told her of the dingy house
in the Harrow Road, of the duns that came
round the door, of the privations within, of
the visits to the pawn-shop, of a future even
more terrible ? How could he take her to
such a scene ? and yet how could he help) it ?

I and a friend, M. Dubarri," be said,
bave taken a furnished bouse by the month.
He thinks it cheaper than living in lodgings :
and you know, Hebe, money is a great consideration
with us."

And I am to live with you there ? " sbe
asked, laying ber band in ibis.

"" Yes, but perhaps you won't like it. It
is a very miserable bouse, not at all like this ;
and we — well, we don't exactly live in it.
We starve in it. You see, Hebe, dear,"
added be, gravely looking at ber bewildered
face, ^' we are dreadfully poor, poorer than
you bave any idea of. We bave rather got
out of the way of regular meals ; we just
picnic, as it were."

'' Ob ; but that will be debgbtful," cried
Hebe, wbo, like many others, could seldom
tell better Arnold was joking or speaking
in earnest. " I detest stock-up dinners, and
I love picnics ; and then, Arnold," with a sly
glance at bim, " I shall bave you."

So you will ; but I should be more useful
if you could eat me."

VOL. II. R

It flashed upon her that his words meant
more than she had supposed. " But," she
said, " I have plenty of money. See ! " holding
out to him an open purse, 'there is all
I had in the savings bank. I drew it out
before I left, and you must take it ; yes,
please, please, to oblige me, you must."

Very gently but very firmly he put it into
her pocket again. She looked disappointed
at first, but soon brightened up and began
to prattle about the speedy reconciliation with
the Doctor, of whom she stood rather in awe.
Even if he did not send them all they required,
she said, her parents would, and she
meant to write to them that very night in
order to ease their minds and ask their forgiveness.
To this Arnold offered no other
objection than that she was on no account
to give her address until after their marriage.

Their conversation was interrupted by the
entrance of Mrs. Price, whom Hebe had
spoken of as Minnie. She was a tall, handsome
young widow, a born flirt, if ever
there was one. She received Arnold very

graciously, yet not without an amused smile.
Indeed, it soon became evident that she
regarded the whole affair as a capital joke ;
which, however, was not the view taken
by an elderly maiden aunt who lived with
her.

The aunt was unmistakably attracted into
the room by curiosity. While dreading contamination,
she wanted to see whether the
young couple who were going to make this
scandalous runaway match looked and behaved
like ordinary people. Keeping her eyes and
ears open, she buttoned up her lips and sat
rigidly erect in her chair, with her hands
folded on her breast, and a look of reprobation
on her prim old face.

It was about ten o'clock when Arnold left
the house. The first thing that he did, after
getting clear of the square, was to produce
from his pocket fourpence in coppers, and to
stare at them in perplexity. They represented
the whole of his capital. Though he was not
altogether blind to the tragic side of the
picture, something very like a smile flitted

across his face, as he gazed at the coins in his
hand. What would M. Dubarri say, when
he heard that this poverty-stricken young
man, whose past had been a sealed book, was
about to be married ? He would go dancing
mad, surely.

He found M. Dubarri sitting in the armchair,
the black cat purring at his feet. His
pince-nez were upon his little snub nose, for
he was reading a book which he held up
towards the lamp, burning dimly upon the
table at his side.

Arnold thought he had never seen the
room look so shabbily and scantily furnished
before. AVhat a melancholy contrast
it formed to the bright drawing-room he had
just quitted ! And then the noise in the
street, so different from that peaceful square.
Yet these were the surroundings that he was
contemplating for Hebe. He noticed that
there was an ugly gap in the centre of the
mantelpiece, where the American clock had
lately stood. It had been removed to a
chair in the corner of the room, in order, as

M. Dubarri afterwards explained, that they
might learn to do without it.

"Well, mj friend?" said M. Dubarri,
eagerly laying down his book. He had not
yet succeeded in getting rid of his idea of
a possible fortune in connection with Hebe's
letter.

I'm going to be married," announced
Arnold from the couch.

How M. Dubarri's pince-nez contrived to
unhook themselves from his nose, and tumbledown
would be hard to explain ; but the fact
that they did so will show that his features
went through some very wonderful contortions.
The rapidity with which his eyes
opened and closed was really astonishing.
He was still blinking when he said, like one
in a dream :

You plaisantez, n'est ce pas ? "

Not at all. I'm going to be married at
once."

Ab-ha ! she is rich," cried M. Dubarri,
to whom no other supposition was possible.
Sapristi ! she is rich. I congratulate you.

my friend." He sprang to his feet, and made
a wild dash at Arnold's hand. " Oh, you
dog, you are sly ! "

The tears were rolling down the old fellow's
cheeks, he was so overcome with delight.

But suddenly he turned and made a grand
bow towards the door, which had been opened
by the old shrivelled housekeeper to disclose
a suspicious-looking man, standing, hat in
hand, in the hall, and hesitating to advance.
He took courage, however, and said — •

I don't like to intrude at this hour, but it
appears to be the only time when you are at
home, and my little bill "

"Oh, that will be right, my dear sir,"
interrupted M. Dubarri with a lofty wave of
the hand. 'your little bill— bah ! it shall
be paid at once. We have come into our
fortune at last."

I beg pardon, I'm sure," stammered the
man.

"Pray don't mention it, Mr. Smith. I'll
wish you a very good evening." And he
bowed out the astonished Mr. Smith, who

seemed relieved that, under the circumstances,
his intrusion had been taken so quietly.

But M. Dubarri had scarcely returned to
the room, when there came another knock at
the door, and another suspicious-looking
stranger was shown in. Although a shade
of annoyance passed across M. Dubarri's face,
he received the second visitor as politely as
the first. In fact, the same scene was enacted
over again. If this man came in rather more
like a lion than the other, he certainly went
out quite as much like a lamb.

They have noses, these money-hunting
fellows," said M. Dubarri; "they smell the
fortune already, I think."

I doubt it," said Arnold moodily.
More likely, they see the light in the
window."

Ah ! " And he rushed to the window
and closed the shutters, after which there
were no more late visitors. Being far too
excited to sit down, he took his stand upon
the hearth rug. "Now we shall talk," he said.
So you have got a rich wife, my friend ? "

No, indeed ; that's where you have made
a great mistake. The young lady is anything
but rich. I might almost call her
penniless."

What ! You are joking, surely. Penniless?"


'' Yes."

Then," said M. Dubarri, almost angrily,
you are mad, I think. You must be mad.
Excuse me, my friend, but you see I am
frank. Who is she ? Where did she come
from ? It is strange."

Arnold replied that she had stepped out of
his past life. His other particulars were
equally vague. He made no allusion to Mr.
Yalentine Gaunt's share in the matter, but
took all the responsibility upon his own
shoulders. As regards the future he had no
plans beyond the hope of getting employment
; if that failed him — well, he kept his
eyes steadily averted from this contingency.

How will you live without money or
credit ? " asked M. Dubarri, still speaking
very crustily.

'' We have managed badly," replied Arnold.
We ought to have taken the biggest house
we could get, and then we should have lived
on the fat of the land. Now, I suppose,
nobody will trust us. Oh ! I dare say we
shall get along somehow."

But your wife, what will she say to this
miserable place ? Can she eat suppers like
that ? " He pointed to a tray which the
housekeeper had just set upon the table. It
contained two herrings, a loaf of bread, and
a decanter of water. " And there is worse
behind. Can she live without suppers, perhaps
without food ? "

It is very dreadful," admitted Arnold,
but I solemnly assure you it can't be helped.
Only necessity would make me do such a
thing, and we're sure to see our way out of
it before long. So let ns drink and be
merry ! But, by the way, do you object to
my bringing a wife here ? "
^ " Not at all, my dear fellow, not at all 1 "
replied M. Dubarri, warmly shaking Arnold's
hand again. " She is welcome to the little I

have. I shall do my best to make her comfortable.
When will you show her to me ?
I am a judge of women, you know ; but I
am sure you have chosen well. Come,"
added the old fellow, smiling, '' cheer up, you
great sly fellow, you ! If you have no
engagement and I no pupils — that is nothing
to look gloomy at ; we shall make our fortune
yet, I do assure you."

M. Dubarri certainly kept his word. When
Hebe was introduced to him on the following
day, she was perfectly charmed with the
courteous old fellow who treated her as if she
were a duchess. There was a strange mixture
of humility and pride in his manner as he
showed her over the house, pointing out such
little things as he thought would please her,
and carefully slurring over those that would
not ; and when she had seen everything, he
installed her in his armchair, and insisted
upon sending for a bottle of claret, of which
he informed her he was an excellent judge.
Once or twice, in the course of a speech in
which he proposed " long life and happiness "

to the young couple, his hand strayed to his
coat as if to satisfy himself that it was
buttoned ; but if he thought of his absent
watch and chain, this did not interfere with
his good spirits.

Hebe, it must be confessed, did experience
a slight chill at the first sight of her new
home, but under M. Dubarri's influence and
in her lover's company she very soon got
over it. The novelty of the thing, also, was
a great attraction. She was to be the mistress
of this house. There was sweetness in that ;
and if the rooms might be tidier and prettier,
there would be all the more scope for her
when she assumed the management. In
brief, she was thoroughly delighted with
everything and everybody. As for M.
Dubarri, there could not possibly have been
a dearer old man. When she expressed this
opinion to Arnold, they were walking down
the Harrow Road ; and happening to look
back, as ladies sometimes do, she beheld M.
Dubarri standing on the doorstep distributing
sweetmeats to three or four little children.

After this she would have resolutely declined
to hear a word against him.

The next few days glided by without any
particular incident. It was arranged that
the marriage should take place at the earliest
possible date, and everything in the way of
ceremony was to be avoided. Hebe most
reluctantly promised not to spend any money
on dress, and Arnold's chief preparation for
matrimony was the pawning of his watch to
get the wherewithal to pay the necessary
fees.

END OF VOL. II.

LONDON: PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,
Stafford STREET AND CHARING CROSS.

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA

3 01

12 084210654

>l%l

m

f.<'

'i^fi

.Jt^i^f^:

'^

i

"''^(■^Pff!;

OF THE

U N I VE.R.5 City

Of Ill Noise

A TALE OF AN ARMY CBAiJMEE.

BY

HUGH COLEMAN DAVIDSON,

AUTHOR OF
THE GREEN HILLS BY THE gEA," "CAST ON IHK WATERS," ETC.

IN Three VOLUMES.
VOL. TIL

LONDON:

SAMPSON LOW, Mansion, SEARLE, & EIYIKGTON:

LIMITED,

Sib Dunstan's p?ousf,

Fetter Lane, Fleet Street, Eg.

1888.

fall rights reserved

rUINTED BY WILLIAM Cloaks AND SONS, LIMITED,

STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.

iy-3

CONTENTS OF YOL. III.

Chapter PAGE

I. Caution versus Cunning . . 1

II. A Brief Farewell . . 30

III. Raising the Siege . . . 51

IV. The Missing Link . . 72

V. On the Brink . . . 96

VI. A Bold Manoeuvre . . 114

VII. Confusion . . . . 139

VIII. After the Battle . . 162

IX. An Explanation . . . 185

X. Tottering . . . 209

XI. The End . . . . 230

CHAPTER I.

CAUTION Versus CUNXTXG.

Mr. Valentine GtAUNt's object in entering
the Doctor's study was to demand that he
should be taken into partnership. Time evening
of Hebe's flight was, he felt, a good
opportunity for making this demand. Though
his salary was high — higher, indeed, than
Leonard Sterne's, who had borne the heat
and burden of the day — it gave him no
leverage. So long as he was merely a paid
tutor, he was liable to be dismissed at any
moment, with a quarter's salary in lieu of
notice ; a disaster rendered most unlikely by
his cautious method, but nevertheless require

Ill B

ing to be guarded against. As a partner, he
would stand upon a perfectly secure footing.
His welfare would then be bound up with
the welfare of the establishment, while a
threat to wreck it would bring the Doctor
to his knees. It was not so much a larger
income he wanted at present — that would
come in due course ; it was additional
power to make eventual success a certainty.
Hence he would bo quite content with an
insignificant share at first. It would be the
more readily granted, in the hope of saving
the remainder ; but when once the thin edge
of the wedge was inserted, the rest would
speedily follow.

Good evening," he repeated, looking with
undisguised admiration at Nellie, standing
erect and defiant before her father, who was
leaning back in his chair.

'' Coffee is served in the drawing-room,
Miss Nellie," announced Higgins, bowing
with imperturbable gravity, yet allowing his
solemn eyes to wander from one to the other.

After dinner the Doctor often retired for a

time to his study before joining Xellie for
coffee in the drawing-room. This was the
meaning of Higgins's announcement.

Good evening, Mr. Gaunt," said the
Doctor, with a painful attempt at cheerfulness.
Then he turned to Xellie and smilingly
added : " E-un away, dear, and attend to your
duties. I have something to say to Mr.
Gaunt. We'll be with you presently."

Mr. Valentine Gaunt walked to the door
and held it open for her. There was a polite
little speech on the tip of his tongue, but it
got no farther. She went proudly by, with
her face turned away from him as if she could
not bear even the sight of such a detestable
object. His expression grew harder as he
closed the door, and when he crossed the
room towards Nellie's chair in the window,
his tread was more cat-like than ever. It
made the Doctor shudder to watch him, he
progressed so stealthily towards some
imaginary mouse. Of course, his purpose
was to inspire fear, his manner being far too
exaggerated to be altogether natural.

This is an unfortunate occurrence," he
said, watching closely.

Yes, very sad indeed," replied the Doctor,
with a sharp glance. The old suspicion that
Mr. Yalentine Gaunt was acquainted with
Arnold's hiding-place, had suddenly sprung
into his mind again, though he could not tell
why. " I sincerely pity the parents."

"I suppose you can guess what has become
of the daughter. No ? She has gone to be
married to your son "

'' I can't believe it."

'' Who has been earning his living on the
boards of a London music-hall."

As the Doctor dropped back in his chair he
made that peculiar motion of pressing his
hand to his side. His poor old face was
white aud drawn ; he gasped for breath ; the
only wonder was that he retained his consciousness,
so sudden was the shock and so
complete the ruin of his dearest hopes. But
he was always marvellously quick to recover ;
and now a brighter light flashed into his
dimmed eyes, though he quivered in every
limb in the attempt to hide it.

Mr. Yalentine Gaunt saw it, and, with
cool, cautious deliberation, extinguished it.

You think," he said, in slow, grating-accents,
" I have given you the means of
finding him. You are mistaken. Arnold is
out of employment at present, and is likely to
he so for many a long month to come. It is,
therefore, impossible to find him. At the same
time, if any of the parents should get to hear
that your son has been masquerading in a
low music-hall, not a single pupil would be
left in the place. You know that, Dr. Coping-stone,
as well as I do. It is a very melancholy
business, and we are all interested in hushing
it up.

He paused to mark the effect of his words
before taking his next step.

The Doctor had been leaning back in his
chair, his fingers playing nervously with his
grey hair, and his whole attitude one of utter
prostration. As he was very early in his
habits, his extraordinary vigour during the
day usually broke down in the evening, so he
could not have been taken at a greater disadvantage.

Still, what lie lacked in bodily
strength he made up for in resolution. "When
he heard Mr. Valentine Gaunt's last sentence,
he once more pulled himself together. It
was a clever little trick that he had devised.
He had been thinking over it for some weeks,
and, while shrinking from the necessity that
had forced it upon him, was rather i^roud of
it. It was nothing more nor less than to
bind over his enemy to keep the peace by
giving him a small share in the establishment.
It would then be to his interest to work in
harmony with everybody.

I have been considering the result of
your work, Mr. Gaunt," began the Doctor,
sitting up and fidgeting with his pen. " You
have been very successful — very successful
indeed. Now it has occurred to me that the
present method of payment is scarcely fair,
when you do so much. What would you say
if I were to offer you, instead of a fixed
salary " — he glanced for the first time at the
heavy-browed man sitting, with folded arms,
on the low armchair in the window — " ten

per cent, of the net profits, with a prospective
increase ? "

Air. Valentine Gaunt stared in astonishment.
Here, freely offered to him, was the
very thing that he had come to demand !
What was the artful old fellow driving at ?
Really, this required very careful consideration.
It was lucky that he had not made his
proposal before getting this warning. Of
course, there was a trap of some sort — the
crafty opening showed that — but it was uncommonly
hard to see. However, he was not
such a fool as to fall into any trap, no matter
how skilfully it might be laid. The real
motive was plain before Mr. Valentine Gaunt's
eyes, but he looked beyond it for something
much more abstruse and so more suited to
the Doctor's character.

'• Well ? " said the Doctor, after a long
silence.

"It is my method," replied Mr. Valentine
Gaunt, " never to do anything in a hurry. I
should like a day or two to decide."

The Doctor gave him a swift glance of

apprehension. There was clearly some new
clanger lurking in the background. In no
other way could hesitation to accept this
generous offer be accounted for. The man
must be bought at any price.

Suppose I said eleven per cent. ? " was
his next bid.

I'll remember that," replied Mr. Valentine
Gaunt, growing more wary as the Doctor's
anxiety increased.

*^ And a house."

"• I'll remember that, too."

But you still hesitate ? "

Yes," said Mr. Valentine Gaunt, with a
sly smile, which meant : No, no, old fellow.

you

don't Get over me.

fc3

Twelve and a half per cent., then," said
the Doctor desperately.

You must give me time to consider
it.

At the conclusion of this ludicrous incident
both were thoroughly alarmed. When they
went into the drawing-room, they scarcely
spoke, but gazed at one another across their

cups of coffee with the greatest suspicion.
Xellie, quick to perceive that something was
the matter, placed herself by her whither's side
and tried to coax hi in into a more cheerful
humour. She did get him to talk to her, but
it was a terrible effort after the blow that had
just descended on him, and his eyes kept
wandering to their moody visitor, watching
them from the couch opposite.

It was singular that on this, perhaps the
only occasion when the Doctor's cunning had
proved really useful to him, he did not know
it, and endeavoured to counteract its effects.
It was also singular that when he had done
his utmost to harm himself by offering a fatal
concession to his enemy, it should not have
been eagerly accepted ; that the man of
caution, finding every obstacle suddenly removed
from his path, should have conceived
a distrust of the man of cunning and have
hesitated to advance. The Doctor, as we
know, had good cause for fear, though in
precisely the opposite direction to that in
which he was now looking ; but Mr. Valentine

Gaunt was frightened at merely the Logie of
a guilty conscience.

He spent several days in pondering the
matter, but without finding what he was
seeking. Then he got the Doctor to put his
offer in black and white, and studied it carefully
; and still he could not see anything
wrong with it. If he had been pressed for
time he would have accepted it then, on the
chance of guarding against a possible danger
afterwards ; but what he had already seen
convinced him that any delay was in his
favour. If the concession had been prompted
by fear, the longer he hesitated, the more he
was likely to get. He could not have a more
powerful weapon than suspense. If, on the
other hand, there was some hidden danger,
he would have all the more chance of detecting
it. Besides, now that he had planted
his shaft, he had better defer the coup-degrade
until the marriage had actually taken
place.

Notwithstanding his temporary embarrassment,
Mr. Valentine Gaunt was as confident

that, before another twelve months had gone
by, he would be the head of the establishment
as it is possible to be about anything in the
world. Sterne, he had decided, should be
sent about his business the first thing ; several
other alterations would be necessary, his
migration to the Hut among the number ;
but the other tutors might remain. He was
not quite so sure about his marriage with
Nellie, which was very desirable, on account
of the Doctor's money; but considering the
pressure he could bring to bear, he thought
it highly probable.

If he was at this time driving a good
many horses, it will be noticed that he was
neither so rash as to drive them all simultaneously
nor so foolish as to weaken his
energies by driving them in different directions.
They vere stationed along the road
to this goal, and he urged them forward by
easy stages, turn and turn about. Arnold
and Hebe had served his purpose and were
done with ; Leonard Sterne and Philip
Strath clyde were awaiting their turn at an

early future ; so also was Nellie ; only the
Doctor was being driven at present.

Of course, there was M. Dubarri, but he
must rest for a while at any rate. As the
examination was close at hand, this needs
explanation. Like many another who has
climbed into respectable affluence, Mr. Valentine
Graunt thought it prudent to leave his
old tools behind him. Having now mastered
every detail of his work, he felt that he could
do without them ; at least, he meant to try.
Even if his pupils should turn out badly, he
was no longer dependent upon the favour of
a man who smiled or frowned according as
they got good marks or bad. But if absolutely
necessary, he could revert to M.
Dubarri, though he would much rather not.
When his possessions were insignificant, he
had no cause for fear. But now that he had
attained position and wealth, he was afraid
lest his old accomplice should find him out
and proceed to extort money by means of
threats. This, of course, would be uncommonly
awkward. It would be a low proceeding

altogether. But, then, what could
one expect from M. Dubarri ?

Mr. Valentine Gaunt had another reason
for keeping away from the dingy little house
in the Harrow Road just at present, though
it was one that he scarcely liked to confess
even to himself. Arnold might feel annoyed
at the stratagem practised upon him, and,
being a tall, powerful young fellow, might
be tempted to use his strength in a manner
unbecoming a gentleman. Mr. Valentine
Gaunt determined to put temptation out of
his way. He would keep clear of the Harrow
Road until things had settled down a bit.

Meanwhile he had enough to do to prepare
his candidates for the coming examination.
Knowing that the result would be closely
criticised by Leonard Sterne and others who
had suspected him of foul play, he exerted
himself to the utmost. He lectured his
classes almost incessantly, and the big meerschaum
— the grinning monkey which had
now become a mottled brown — was seldom
out of his mouth. It was noticeable that the

'^ tips " were more numerous and his mannerless
confident than hitherto ; he was not so
positive about the exact nature of the
questions as he was about their general style ;
but for all that, the pupils hung upon every
word of a man who had proved himself such
a singularly successful prophet.

For this reason, they worked less steadily
than they otherwise would have done. Since
they could place full reliance upon their
tutor's ability, why should they trouble
themselves ? Provided with his " tips,"
which they could easily work up at the last
moment, they were certain of success. So
they did very little until the last day or two,
when Merridale, Plantagenet, and Silver-spoon
suddenly grew serious and went in for
frightful spasms of English literature ; Tattle-maine
wandered about in a state of desperation
; and the eye of Puddleton generally
was seen to be " in a fine frenzy rolling."

Heavisides was among the few who looked
cheerful. It had again been decided at a
cabinet council, where Mr. Jostler had as

usual attempted to make several speeches,
that he could not get a single mark in any
subject ; so he had been scratched for about
the twentieth time. Nevertheless, when
strumming on his beloved banjo, he walked
down the street to bid his companions farewell,
his smile was as sweet as ever, and he
looked the very picture of contentment. As
the weather was exceedingly sultry, he wore
neither coat nor waistcoat, but merely the
Panama straw hat, a coloured shirt, large-check
trousers with a gaudy scarf round his
waist, and tennis-shoes. In this airy costume
he sauntered about the village, playing his
solitary nigger melody and cheering each
vehicle as it drove away.

After the candidates had gone, the usual
gloom fell upon Puddle ton. All the tradespeople
panting at their doors on these hot
summer evenings wore a dissatisfied look
because most of their best customers had
departed ; there was a dismal aspect about
the villagers idling in their gardens — they
missed the sight of the grand coach, the

tooting of the horns, the music of the band,
to all of wliicli they had grown accustomed ;
and the pupils wandered about disconsolately,
not knowing what to do with themselves now
that real work was over for the term and
their companions were gone. Mr. Pike was
still away searching for Hebe, whose disappearance
had passed into history, and so had
been forgotten by most ; while the Doctor
spent much time in London looking for
Arnold.

It had become a very frequent remark that
he had aged sadly. He still showed the same
wonderful vitality, the same energy, the same
dash ; but sorrow was written deeply on his
face, his hair and beard were almost white,
and the tall, wiry figure stooped a little,
especially when he thought no one was
watching him. He seemed to hold himself
erect only by an effort, and seldom went outriding
nowadays, which showed the change
in him more than anything else. In fact,
everything had lost its attraction for him,
except work and his fruitless search.

His loss of spirits reacted strongly upon
those around him. As lie was, or rather had
been, omnipotent in the village, all were
accustomed to study his moods and shape
their behaviour accordingly ; and now that
he seldom smiled, they also felt depressed.

The prevailing gloom was enlivened only
by the despatches that Mr. Jostler, who was
again in charge of the operations, soon began
to send down from the seat of war. However,
the excitement that they caused was of
a very melancholy nature. As one telegram
after another arrived for the Doctor, the
invariable question was : " Who is ploughed
now ? " Nearly every message and letter
chronicled a fresh disaster, chiefly among
Mr. Valentine Gaunt's pupils ; for Leonard
Sterne's appeared to be doing fairly well,
considering the material that he had had to
work upon. The candidates who still survived,
regularly forwarded the examination
papers, with their answers, when possible,
written by the side of the questions ; and
these, as a rule, were very dismal reading.

VOL. III. c

There can be nothing more exasperating to
a tutor than to see a whole series of absurd
answers to simple questions — simple, at least,
to him — and then to turn to his pupil's letter
and read the naive comments and complacent
hopes that he has passed. Yet such things
were of daily occurrence in Puddleton ; and
from the black looks to be seen in every
direction, one might have thought that the
dreaded collapse really was impending.

In this crisis, the Doctor, acting with his
usual promptitude and decision, summoned a
cabinet council. For the moment he laid
aside the other troubles in order to avert the
threatened catastrophe, for none knew better
what a slippery customer fame is. If his
light was to be extinguished, he was determined
that it should not be by failure in the
very thing that had brought him renown ; if
he had to die, he would at any rate die game.

When the tutors were assembled in the
study, he invited them to give their opinions,
and listened with thoughtful attention to
what they had to say. Those who showed

any inclination to be discursive were politely
requested to present the kernel without the
shell. In this way, the business was got
through very rapidly. The majority laid
the blame upon the candidates themselves.
One or two, however, sided with Mr. Valentine
Gaunt in maintaining that the failure
was due to a want of harmony among the
tutors, for which Sterne was solely responsible.

No case, abuse the plaintiff," said the
Doctor. "And that," added he, banging his
fist upon the table, " is the legal maxim I am
going to act upon."

Accordingly he wrote to the Times, commenting
in stringent language upon the
scandalous behaviour of the Civil Service
Examiners. There were, he said, certain set
subjects upon which the papers were supposed
to be based, yet in the recent examination
many of the questions were quite outside
the prescribed limits. This was not only
contrary to the regulations but also most
unfair to parents, tutors, and pupils. It
meant a great waste of time, labour, and

money. In their anxiety to eliminate " cram,"
the examiners were doing the very thing to
render it absolute necessary ; for if they were
to persist in their present course, no school
could hope to compete with the " crammer,"
with his thorough knowledge of the papers.

Not content with this letter, which served
his purpose admirably, the Doctor instructed
Sterne to write to every one of the parents,
stating the case at greater length and emphasizing
it by means of carefully selected
examples. Of course, he knew that the
Duke of Tudor, for instance, would no more
dream of attempting to solve the algebraical
problems presented to him than he would
of staying at his town house in September ;
but he also knew that nothing is so convincing
as a broad array of facts, no matter
whether or not they are intelligible. The
parents, thus prepared for their sons' failure,
joined with them in abusing those dreadful
examiners ; those who had seats in either
House, even questioned the Government on
the subject ; and all spoke well of the Doctor

who had nobly come forward as their
champion.

In brief, his bold manoeuvre was attended
with complete success. He turned a possible
catastrophe to such advantage that at no
time had his reputation stood higher than it
did after this disastrous examination. It will
be seen, then, that, broken as the Doctor was
in spirit, his right hand had not lost its
cunning.

One evening, shortly after the commencement
of the vacation, Mr. Yalentine Gaunt
returned to the attack. The marriage must,
he felt, have taken place ; in any case, it was
time to advance another step. Now that his
work was nearly finished, he could view it
with considerable satisfaction. It contained
no flaw of any sort ; it was neatly riveted,
delightful to the eye, a splendid testimony to
the value of his method for overcoming
difficulties. Altogether, it was something to
be proud of.

He entered the study in his usual stealthy
way, no footfall telling of his approach ; but

lo ! there he stood, smiling his sinister smile.
The Doctor started at the sight of him, and
hurriedly thrust a crumpled paper into the
drawer of the writing-table. It was an old
letter from his missing son. With a weary
sigh, he once more leaned back in his chair
and waited, while Mr. Yalentine Gaunt
walked to the window and sat down. He
folded his arms and kept them so, except
once or twice when his hand fluttered in the
air. The Doctor looked, if possible, more
worn and miserable than on the previous
occasion, but otherwise the scene was precisely
the same.

I have considered your proposal, Dr.
Copingstone," began Mr. Yalentine Gaunt,
and feel disposed to accept it, with one or
two slight alterations."

In the Doctor's mind there was a bewildering
conflict of emotions. He was
sorry that he had made the proposal, relieved
at its acceptance, distressed at the thought
of being bound to this man's chariot wheel,
alarmed at his cool self-possession and the

suggestiveness of his last words — everything
but happy.

"Let me hear what you propose, Mr.
Gaunt," he said, striving to be composed also.

You mentioned twelve and a half percent,
of the net profits, and a house. I
would suggest twenty per cent, and a house."

"From any one else," said the Doctor,
goaded beyond endurance, " T should call
that a most impudent proposal."

And so it would be," returned Mr.
Yalentine Gaunt, with an odious smile.
There, I quite agree with you. From anyone
else, it certainly would be a most
impudent proposal, and in that case, I should
be strongly opposed to your accepting it.
But coming from me, it is different ; at least,
I can regard it differently. I, you have told
me, have done so much, and, perhaps I may
add, know so much."

But," said the Doctor pettishly, " twenty
per cent, is unreasonable."

"Half a loaf is said to be better than no
bread, and here you get four-fifths. You

see, my object is to prevent an accident.
Suppose it were to come out that you had
been constantly telling people that your son
was at the University, while all the time you
did not know where he was, they might
think it very reprehensible conduct in a
clergyman. They would look at the act
rather than at the motive, which no doubt
is excellent."

He stopped and glanced at the Doctor,
who had covered his face with his hands.

Suppose," proceeded Mr. Valentine Gaunt,
they were also to ascertain that your son's
occupation was playing the buffoon to a
music-hall audience, and that his partner was
the daughter of a pettifogging country practitioner"
— he quoted the Doctor's own expression
with great unction — " whom he had
induced to run away from her parents."

That's a lie," cried the Doctor, starting
into animation in a moment.

They would be still less disposed," continued
his tormentor coolly, " to consider
his father a proper instructor for their sons."

Mr. Gaunt," said the Doctor desperately,
'* I have a great mind to get rid of my pupils
and then defy you to do your worst."

It was with intense eagerness that the old
man, driven to bay, watched the effect of this
stroke. With both hands, he clutched the
arms of his chair, and leaned forward to peer
at the tall, round-shouldered corpulent figure
leaning back in Nellie's seat, calmly stroking
his whiskers. He noticed no contraction of
the overhanging brows, no reddening of the
high cheekbones, no angry gleam in the
watchful eyes ; the very care with which
the darkened hair was brushed across the
bald patches, seemed a part of the method
which would not admit of a flaw ; and as he
watched his heart sank like lead. Slowly,
as if hope were being wrenched out of him,
inch by inch, he sank back to his old
position.

Mr. Valentine Gaunt had prepared for this
contingency. He knew that the threat
would have been launched long ago, but for
the Doctor's love of the establishment he had

built up and his ambition that it should rise
still higher and endure. He had expected it,
however, and was, therefore, ready for it.
He smiled, as he said —

"Dr. Copingstone, the highly respected
Rector of Puddleton, would scarcely like it
to be known that the Eev. C. C. Copingstone
ran away with the intended wife of another
man ; that he still cherishes in kindly remembrance
his sinful alter ego He stopped
and pointed to the double picture, " the Old
Adam."

Ah, you know that also," said the Doctor,
not without a tinge of admiration mingled
with his distress. " I agree to your proposal,
Mr. Gaunt, because I can't help myself. But
I add one condition — the strictest silence."

Talking would be as hurtful to my
interests as to yours. But," said he, offering
the sugar after the medicine, " I'll do more
than that : I'll help you to find Arnold.
By working together, we might be able to
rescue him from his ignominious position
and set him on his legs again, say, in the

colonies, for tuition is, of course, out of the
question."

It was in quite a pleasant tone that he
brought forward his little scheme for making
friends all round. He flattered himself that
it was rather a neat touch. Arnold could
scarcely say anything against the man who
had done him this good turn ; and even if
he should prove objectionable, he would soon
be out of the way. In any case, though the
search might be commenced at once, it would
not be advisable to find him until matters
had been definitely settled ; but this could
not diminish the Doctor's gratitude in the
long run.

"- If," said the Doctor hoarsely, " you can
restore Arnold to me, I shall think you under
and not overpaid." In the midst of his
affection for his son, stronger now than it
had ever been before, there was a slight
revival of the old hope, and dreading lest it
should be noticed and once more crushed out,
he hastened to add : " Oh, Mr. Gaunt, you
are not a father ; you don't know what it is

to lose a son ; if you did, you could not fail
to pity me — you would be merciful — you
would indeed."

Great must have been his agony when he
who judged others so accurately, could have
made such an appeal to such a concentration
of fiendish selfishness.

You may rely on me, Dr. Copingstone,"
said Mr. Yalentine Gaunt, with a polite inclination
of the head, " to do my best. If
Arnold is to be found " — he was pleased to
ignore the very strong hint that he possessed
the desired information — " depend upon it,
we shall find him."

The Doctor only sighed.

One point more," said Mr. Yalentine
Gaunt. " Though we shall be partners under
the new arrangement, our interests will not
be perfectly identical. You, I know, are as
anxious as I am to prevent the chance of any
disputes. You also wish this establishment
to last after you are — hem — gone. Here,
again," he was watching keenly, and his tones
were measured but cordial, " I should like

to further your wishes. If you are agreeable,
I should be delighted to take your name and
marry "

There was a knock at the door and Nellie
entered.

The coffee is getting quite cold," she said,
placing herself, as before, between her father
and Mr. Yalentine Gaunt, of whom she took
not the smallest notice.

If she had known the subject of conversation,
she could not have arrived more opportunely.
She carried off her wretched father,
who seemed quite stunned, now that the
whole of the cruel crafty plot had been laid
bare. As they two — the old man and the
young maiden clinging lovingly to his side —
walked into the drawing-room, their black
shadow sullenly rose and followed them.

CHAPTER II.

A BRIEF FAREWELL.

Before Philip went up to London for his
examination, he called at the Rectory to take
leave of Nellie. Within the last few weeks
they had met several times, but he had never
once asked her why she used to avoid him.
If his reserve was partly due to Leonard
Sterne's advice, it was also due to his complete
trust in her. Since he had been told
that she had a secret which she did not wish
him to know at present, he had been content
to bide her time.

One of the many things that mystified him
was, that the Doctor no longer opposed their
meeting. Not that he had in any way
sanctioned it ; but he looked on without
interference — with a strange mixture of indecision

and indifference, as if he was passing
through a severe struggle jet cared not 
ended. The explanation was to be found
in his threat to Mr. Valentine Graunt. But
as Philip could not know this, he was completely
puzzled, and at the same time delighted
to find the scale inclining in his favour.

It was towards the close of a beautiful
afternoon that he walked up to the old-fashioned
porch where the passion-flowers
were peeping from the clematis like pebbles
from the white surge. A slight shower had
sprinkled the leaves with diamonds, and there
was just sufficient moisture in the air to make
the sunbeams look like threads of gossamer.
The breeze was soft and warm ; a delicate
pink mist hung over the distant landscape,
but faded away as the wavy meadows and
corn lands swept past the oaks and poplars
towards Camelback, down which the Splash-water
was dancing merrily ; and from every
brake came the piping notes of the blackbirds.
In short, an afternoon to cheer a lover's heart.
if ever there was one.

Is Miss Nellie at home, Higgins ? " asked
Philip.

No, sir, she is not," replied Higgins, with
a wink. It certainly was a very solemn wink,
bnt there could be no doubt about its nature,
for this white-headed machine gravely raised
one corner of its mouth at the same time as
it closed the corresponding eye.

Taken aback by this singular phenomenon,
Philip could merely stammer out —

'' She is not at home ? "

No, sir, she is not," replied Higgins, with
another solemn wink.

Is there anything the matter with you,
Higgins ? " inquired Philip.

No, sir ; thank you kindly."

Philip looked at him curiously and indeed
anxiously. While he still lingered, it occurred
to him that Higgins, being a very watchful
man, might have taken the cue from the
Doctor. Perhaps Nellie, though not in the
house, was in the garden. "Like master,
like man." Without another word, Philip
hurried round the corner of the house and

disappeared through the laurels, Higgins
looking after him with a self-satisfied smile.

The lover's heart gave a great throb at the
sight of a willowy graceful figure in a garden
hat, bending over a bed of roses just beyond
the study window. Feeling it to be a very
injudicious place for a meeting, he crept
noiselessly past the broken sundial, and skirting
the bushes planted around the tennis-ground,
at length reached a rustic seat
beneath an old pear-tree, which was charmingly
draped in honey-suckle. It was a
pleasant little snuggery, brightened up by a
confusion of pansies, hollyhocks, and sweet-williams,
but it possessed a still greater
advantage — it was out of sight of the window.

Philip peeped out and called softly,
Nellie."

She started and turned round with crimson
cheeks and drooping lashes and pouting lips ;
a prettier picture than any flower in the
garden. Philip watched her with eager
admiration ; and as a smile lighted up the
fair young face, he smiled also. For a

VOL. It. D

moment she stood irresolute in the shimmering
sunlight that seemed to culminate in the
spot where she was ; and then glided swiftly
towards him. But when he would have
taken her in his arms and kissed her, she put
up her little hand and stopped him. How
charming the rogue looked, cooly shrinking
away from him.

-Yet it was not all mischief; the blue eyes
were turned upon him with timid wonderment,
as if she would read the thoughts of
this handsome fair-haired lover, whose arms
were open to receive her. Nellie, always a
fragile blossom, had felt her father's troubles
severely. They seemed to be fretting her
young life away. Her figure was slighter,
her expression more pensive, her skin more
transparent ; the beautiful girl had, unperceived
by most of those around her, grown
into the beautiful woman. In Philip's eyes
she was only the more lovely and lovable.

He moved towards her.

No, she said, not until she had told him
something. At this slip she blushed more

deeply than ever, and hastily added, " I
mean, Philip, until my father has really,
really given his consent "

She sat down at one end of the seat and
made him take the other, an arrangement
that he submitted to only after strong protest.

When I have passed my examination,"
he said, " I intend to alter this. I'll have no
horrid seat between us then. Go ahead,
Nellie ! What is it you have to tell me ? "

With a good deal of hesitation, she told
him of the omission of her name from the
family Bible, and also the Doctor's explanation.
During the latter part of her story,
she glanced nervously every now and again
at Philip. There was a painful doubt lingering
in her mind, and though she would not
disclose it even to her lover, she was exceedingly
anxious to have it removed.

Dear me Nellie, is that all ? " exclaimed
Philip, with a look of supreme unconcern.
After which, this inconsistent young man
began to hew with all his might at the thing
of which he spoke so slightingly. Indeed,

with his knowledge of the Doctor's many
little tricks, especially the standing deception
with reference to Arnold, it would have been
strange if Philip had not harboured some
suspicion. "Goodness gracious!" he said,
what a foolish fancy to have got into your
dear little head. It's like a joke in the
pulpit ; it has no business there. And you
say Leonard Sterne knows about it. I'm
surprised at him ; he ought to have had more
sense. Why on earth didn't he tell you it
was all nonsense ? And Nellie " — his tone
and looks were brimful of tenderness — " why
didn't you tell me ? "

Because," she faltered, turning away her
head, '' because my Philip's wife must be
above suspicion."

I knew it — I knew it. My darling ! "
His heart was too full for more.

Presently Nellie, stealing an anxious look
at him, said, " But it's all right now, Philip ? "

Of course it's all right. A mere piece
of forgetfulness on your father's part. I'll
just go to the Doctor this very moment and

request him to be good enough to put your
name where it ought to be."

In her alarm she offered no objection to
his drawing a little nearer ; and given an
inch, the lover took an ell. It was very
sweet to watch her winsome face as she
implored him not to do what he never had
the smallest intention of doing ; but suddenly
the entreaties stopped — she was clasped in
his arms, his lips tightly pressed to hers.

For the moment they forgot their little
troubles, these innocent young things who
asked no more than to be allowed to go hand
in hand through life ; they were very happy,
building delightful castles in which they were
to live together, and reading the future in
one another's eyes.

It was Nellie, doleful little Nellie, who
first returned to the reality. Her thoughts
had wandered back to the family Bible, or
rather to Sterne's suggestion.

Oh, if we could only find Arnold ! " she
said.

Dear me, we'll find him," returned Philip.

Wait till I Lave passed my examination.
Wait till I'm a gentleman at large. Then I
shall go to the Doctor and say that I have
two missions — the first, to marry his daughter;
the second, to find his son. You see, Nellie,
I shall be a general benefactor to the family."

But we don't know where he is," said
Nellie, tearfully. " We don't know anything.
It's all miserable."

Oh yes, we do, Nellie. We know lots
of things, very nearly as much as we want.
We know that we are head over ears in love
with one another — at least, I am ; and you?
Ah ! I know you are — so how can we be
miserable ? "

More kisses, of course. Shortly afterwards,
Philip said farewell — the private farewell, to
be followed by a more public one in front
of the study window. When he and Nellie
emerged side by side upon the tennis-ground,
their eyes were moist with tears. It was buta
little while that they were to be separated,
yet even a few weeks seem long and full of
dreadful possibilities to a couple of young

lovers whose lines have not been laid in the
pleasantness places. Philip tried to cheer Nellie
by telling her — rather huskily — what he was
going to do after the examination. He said
he was pretty confident of passing this time,
'unless," added he, with the caution of greater
experience, " another accident should happen,
which would be a very terrible thing, for it
is my last chance. The Doctor, however, has
promised to get me a nomination."

He stopped abruptly, for the Doctor was
standing at the window. He was gazing
straight at them, and yet did not appear to
see them. His face wore the hunted expression
that has been already noticed, and ibis
eyes were strangely lustreless. But presently
they fell upon Nellie, whereupon the old man
recovered himself with a start, and smiled.
He waved his hand to Philip, who was in
the act of leaving her ; and so disappeared
from the window, as hastily as if he was
afraid of being caught watching them.

Philip was very thoughtful as he walked
through the village. The lights and shadows

chasing one another across his features showed
how deeply he was moved. " My Philip's
wife must be above suspicion : " those were
the beautiful words she had said to him —
words that the storms of a lifetime would
never erase, so deeply were they written upon
his heart. She had been suffering for him,
and yet, until to-day, he had not known it.
Devotedly as she had loved him, she had
been prepared to sacrifice her love for his
sake. How like her dear, sweet self ! And
what a blind bat he had been not to have
seen it all along. And then Philip fell to
wondering at the strange contrasts in the
same family. Fancy the Doctor performing
an act of self-sacrifice ! Or Arnold, who was
bringing trouble upon everybody ! This led
Philip to decide a question which had been
harassing him ever since his fruitless journey
to London. He would tell Sterne of his
meeting with Arnold.

He accordingly entered the Hut.

In the hall he met Mrs. Sterne, dressed for
walking. She was going to the Rectory, she

said ; should she take any message for him ?
He replied that he had just left Nellie ;
whereupon she tripped away laughing.

Mrs. Sterne had all the match-making
qualities of her sex. There was nothing she
took greater delight in. Her opportunities
were somewhat limited in Puddleton, but she
pursued them with only the more vigour on
that account. Feeling that Philip and Nellie
were excellently suited to one another, she
was determined never to rest until she had
seen them married. If he would thereby lose
the Manor estate, what of that ? It would
be all the better for Mildred Strathclyde, and
the Doctor had quite enough to provide for
the young couple handsomely. So she had
never lost a chance of pegging her hints into
him, and, judging by the change that had
lately come over him, congratulated herself
upon having made some of them stick.

Leonard Sterne was sitting in his study.
He was smoking the battered old briar-root
pipe, and poring over a number of tradesmen's
bills — on behalf of the Doctor, of course.

for it was one of Sterne's many unpleasant
duties to keep a jealous eye upon prices. He
greeted Philip very warmly, gave him a
cigarette to quiet him down a little, and sent
him to the couch in the window.

Philip commenced business by repeating
what he had learnt from Nellie.

It vexed Sterne to think that, after all his
care, he had not prevented the Doctor from
telling this incredible story to his daughter,
and yet he was glad that one more secret
had disappeared. Confidence was completely
re-established between Philip and Nellie, and
that was a great thing gained. Indeed, it
could not be over-estimated; for it enabled
them to present an undivided front to the
common foe, Mr. Valentine Gaunt. Sterne
had a way of persuading himself — or trying
to do so — that " all is for the best."

Now," said Philip in conclusion, " what
I want to know is, why shouldn't I go
straight to the Doctor and have it out with
him ? "

Because," replied Sterne gently, " your

young head could scarcely be expected to
succeed where an older one has failed. You
are such a dashing fellow, Philip, it would
be very dangerous to turn you loose in a
china shop."

So I'm to keep on doing nothing ? "
'' Can't you trust me, my boy ? "
"• Forgive me," cried Philip. " I didn't
mean that. But — it is a little hard to look
on with folded hands when Nellie is concerned.
Now, isn't it ? '

Sterne gave him a kindly smile.
*' I dare say you are right," he said ; " but,
remember, I am doing my utmost to help
you. If things seem in a hopeless muddle
just at present, I have no doubt they will
clear soon. There is no excuse for being
disheartened. But I would particularly ask
you not to judge the Doctor harshly. Irrespective
of his being Nellie's father, he is an
old man with an old man's foibles, and therefore
you will never, I know, say a word
against him ; you will give him only respect.
At the same time, as a rational being, you

can't help forming some opinion of him in
your own mind ; and it is tills opinion that
I would have you hold in check, otherwise it
is sure to exercise an unconscious influence
upon yourself. Without hearing both sides
of a case, it is unfair to proceed to judgment ;
and as no life can be bared for your inspection,
you should always deal leniently with
its faults. There, Philip, you must think I
fancy myself in the pulpit. But I would add
just this. Unless I am much mistaken, the
Doctor has been grossly deceived in early
life, and this makes him distrustful now. If
so, he is to be pitied rather than condemned."
Sterne's defence of his old friend would
scarcely have convinced his young friend
had not the latter already been predisposed
in its favour. While disliking the Doctor's
faults, Philip thoroughly liked the Doctor
himself. He said so with his usual warmth ;
and then his face turned scarlet, for he remembered
that he had to tell Sterne about
Arnold. What would he say to the Doctor's
conduct then ?

Sterne was fairly staggered. He had accepted
the explanation of Arnold's absence at
Christmas as perfectly satisfactory ; so, in
spite of a slight wonderment as to what was
delaying him after the commencement of the
Long Vacation, the blow was quite unexpected.
He had the greatest difficulty in
concealing his agitation until, after bidding
Philip good-bye and wishing him luck in
his examination, he found himself alone.
Then he began to pace about his room as if
he were walking for a wager. Being childless,
he had no fatherly feelings to draw
upon ; but he had an abundant store of friendship.
It enabled him, not to sympathize
with, but to pardon an act that, from any one
else but the Doctor, he would have considered
unpardonable. Indeed, even now he could
regard the act itself only with shame, which
coloured his cheeks as if he himself had been
the wrong-doer. But, he reflected, his poor
old friend had been prompted by the best of
motives ; surely, then, he had some excuse !
From the cause, Sterne turned to the effects.

And here he saw one of the sources of Mr.
Valentine Gaunt's influence. 'arnold,"
Philip had said, '' used to live with an old
Frenchman called Dubarri at No. 13, Momus
Street," the very house in front of which Mr.
Valentine Gaunt had been standing. The
inference was clear. He had been acquainted
with the deception, and had used it as a lever
against the Doctor ; but not the only lever —
the date put that out of the question, and
moreover it was not strong enough by itself
to lift the weight. There were many little
things to corroborate this opinion.

And then there sprang upon Sterne the old
suspicion that had attacked him and his wife
many months ago and had been driven forth
as unjust ; the suspicion that Mr. Valentine
Gaunt had been concerned in Arnold's disappearance.
Though it would have been, as
we know, a false conclusion, it was certainly
a reasonable one, and yet Sterne would not
accept it. Doubtless he would have done so
had the person been neither friend nor foe.
But while in the case of the former, he

always rushed along with the ardour of the
enthusiast ; in the case of the latter he walked
with extreme caution, knowing how easily
human nature is prejudiced.

As soon as the vacation arrived, he accompanied
his wife to a small town in Hampshire,
where her parents lived. After staying one
night, he left her there, and returned to hardwork
at Puddleton. He had to make out the
pupils' accounts and send them off to the
respective fathers or guardians, who knew
his name almost as well as the Doctor's,
though in a less favourable connection. If
any of them should happen to read this
story, they may remember that many of
those accounts were paid with shocking un-punctuality,
while others are unpaid to this
day.

All this greatly added to Sterne's labour,
which consumed a fortnight altogether.
When it was finished, he went up to London,
took rooms in the neighbourhood of the
Strand — only a few yards from where Arnold
had once lodged — and began to hunt for

Arnold. There were thus three different
parties engaged in the search, each acting
independently of the other two. There was
the blundering firm of private detectives
employed by the Doctor, who at frequent
intervals goaded them into spasmodic activity,
by pouncing upon them as unexpectedly ashe
pounced upon his pupils ; Mr. Pike, who
had tried many professional wiles without
success ; and Leonard Sterne, who was going
to do a most unprofessional thing — to dodge
about from theatre to theatre.

Sterne was in the same fix as he had been
in all along. He did not know whether
the strange acts that were continually coming
to light belonged to half a dozen puzzles or
to one. There was the mystery of the two
wives ; of the omission of Nellie's name from
the family register ; of Arnold's disappearance
; of Mr. Yalentine Gaunt's influence ;
of the French papers ; of the Clerical
Directory ; of ^* the old Adam ; " and several
others of less importance. Here was a fine
collection of broken links. No doubt there

was a connection between some of them, but
Sterne was unable to see it ; and as for the
rest, they appeared to belong to different
chains. Nevertheless, stopped in one direction,
he groped about in another, hoping that
by following each clue as far as possible he
might eventually arrive at some intelligible
result. If he found Arnold, he would at any
rate immensely lighten the Doctor's burden,
even if he did no more.

During the day Sterne wandered about the
streets, always keeping his eyes open, and
sometimes making inquiries, and every night
he went to at least one theatre. In this way
the remaining five weeks of the vacation
were consumed ; all but the last three days,
when he had to return to Puddleton to prepare
for the coming term.

He seemed quite unconscious of having
done anything out of the common, and said
nothing about it to any one but his wife.
Yet he could afford to give up his leisure
even less than his money, of which he had
been obliged to spend no small amount.

VOL. III. E

Being tutor, secretary, and curate, he was
seldom able to leave off work till very late at
night ; and as this work was carried on from
year's end to year's end almost without intermission,
he stood sorely in need of rest. Yet
instead of taking it, he had spent his holidays
in a weary trudge along the London streets
for the sake of a friend ; and when, dispirited
by failure, he arrived at the Hut, he looked
terribly jaded and worn.

The same evening Mr. Pike was announced.
As his business could not be told to the
Doctor, with whom he had quarrelled, he had
decided to tell it to Sterne. He entered with
a stiff inclination of his plump little body,
held his head rigidly erect, and refused a
seat. But, of a sudden, the ice melted away.
The father's face was beaming with delight
as he burst out —

*^ We have found our daughter."

'' And Arnold ? " cried Sterne, starting up
eagerly.

Yes."

Thank God ! " said Sterne fervently.

CHAPTER Il

Raisin THE SIEGE.

On the evening of her arrival in London
Hebe wrote a penitent letter to her mother.
It reached its destination just as the dog-cart
drove up to the door to convey Mr. Pike to
Stilbury. At a consultation held between
husband and wife at the breakfast-table, the
matter was discussed as thoroughly as the
brief time at their disposal would allow.
Relieved as they were at hearing of their
daughter's safety, they felt immediate action
to be as necessary as ever. After what had
happened, they could no longer oppose the
marriage ; nay, more, they must formally
sanction it, and insist upon the Doctor's
doing the same. It should be no 



UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

corner affair, giving people an opportunity
to point the scornful finger afterwards ; buta
ceremonious wedding, attended by the
members of both families. Unfortunately,
the first thing to be done offered the first
difficulty. It was to find Hebe, who had
withheld her address.

The post-mark is W," said the lawyer,
scrutinizing the envelope.

But if you don't go now, you'll lose the
train," urged his wife, a stout, elderly lady,
whose features still showed traces of her
former beauty.

Mr. Pike ran out nibbling at his breakfast
roll, jumped into the dog-cart, and drove off.

From time to time letters arrived from
him, but they all told of failure. His wife,
who had relied entirely upon his judgment,
at length began to set her wits to work.
Perhaps a woman could succeed where even
a lawyer had failed. It occurred to her that
since an interval would have to elapse before
the marriage, Hebe could not have gone
straight to Arnold. Would she go into

strange lodgings by herself? Surely not.
Whom, then, did she know in London? She
had one or two school friends, whose names
Mrs. Pike either had not heard or else could
not remember; but after diligent search in
her daughter's room, she found an old letter
from a Minnie Price, written from a certain
square in Bayswater. Her investigations led
to another discovery, which proved even more
serviceable. She now determined to take the
matter in hand herself.

The following day she arrived in London
for the first time in her life. Her husband,
to whom she had telegraphed her intention,
met her at the station, and together they
drove to the house where Arnold and Hebe
had met.

To their extreme vexation, it was found to
be deserted by all but a deaf old woman who
lived in the basement. After much shouting,
Mr. Pike learned that she was a caretaker.
Of what ? Not of herself, for she smelt
strongly of gin, and was half-palsied from
drinking. Of the house ? But that would

be too absurd, since she could not take care
of herself. She knew absolutely nothing
until the lawyer held out half-a-crown, when
she grabbed it with glittering eyes, and grew
a trifle more intelligent. She didn't live in
the house regularly, she explained, but only
when Mrs. Price and her aunt were away.
They had left town on the previous evening.
She had heard of a young lady staying with
them, but had no idea as to what had become
of her. This was all the information they got.

Well, Emily ? " said Mr. Pike, with a sly
smile at his wife. Though sadly disappointed
himself, he could not help crowing over her,
after all the trouble she had taken in ominous
to London to set him right.

'' Take me to the shops," she said quietly.

He laughed outright. " Why, London is
nearly twelve square miles of shops."

That may be, but it is a very little part
that concerns us."

Then, tell me what you mean."

'' Hebe is short of handkerchiefs."

Oho ! " said Mr. Pike, who was strutting

by bis wife's side as pompously as if he were
in his native village. " See, there is a
handkerchief shop."

"Nonsense. Hebe would never enter the
first shop she came to. I know my own
daughter better than that. She would go to
Barnard's in Oxford Street."

A short walk brought them to Oxford
Street, crowded as usual. Mrs. Pike had a
good many collisions, she kept such a watchful
eye upon the shop windows. It was a
forlorn hope, she knew ; but as her acquaintance
with Hebe's likes and dislikes offered
just a possibility of success, she was resolved
not to neglect it.

Suddenly she stopped, and, followed by
her husband, hastened into a shop, which
had the name " Barnard " painted over the
window.

Has any young lady," she asked of the
assistant, " giving the name of Pike or
Copingstone bought anything here lately ? "

Yes, madam," replied the youth unhesitatingly.


Mrs. Pike dropped breathless into a chair.
Her husband only drew himself more erect,
trembling a little, however.

Would you kindly tell me what makes
you remember the circumstance," he said.

The lady was accompanied by a tall
young gentleman, who stood at the door
with his back towards her all the time she
was choosing some stockings. But when I
asked ' What name ? ' and she answered —
getting very red, I thought — ' Mrs. Coping-stone,'
he turned round and said : ' No ; no
name at all. Let them be sent up to the
house, and it will be all right.' And this
was accordingly done, but it seemed to me a
curious thing altogether."

What was the address ? " demanded Mr.
Pike.

The voluble assistant drew in his horns,
and eyed the lawyer suspiciously. It dawned
upon him that he had already exceeded his
duty, and might get into a scrape for it.
The assurance that he was addressing Mrs.
Copingstone's parents failed to set him at his

ease ; indeed, it only complicated the situation,
for he could not understand their coming
to him for what they ought to know themselves.
However, they eventually succeeded
in convincing him that no harm was intended ;
and, possessed of the desired information, they
thanked him and left the shop.

I was right, you see," laughed Mrs. Pike.

You were in luck," said Mr. Pike stiffly.

She accepted the correction, having other
things to say to him.

'' John," she said, turning solemn all of a
sudden, " I feel frightened. What is the
meaning of this business ? ' No name at all.'
It gave me quite a shock."

'' Why bother our heads about it," asked
the lawyer, " when we shall know for certain
in less than an hour's time ? Here's a
hansom. Hey ! "

But the thrifty housewife objected to two
hansoms in a single day ; and after a dispute
with the driven , who declared they had hired
him, and followed swearing lustily, they took
refuge in a Royal Oak omnibus.

When the omnibus stopped, they got a
policeman to direct them, and walked the
rest of the distance.

Arrived at the house they were in search
of, they stopped in alarm. Such a dingy
house in such a noisy neighbourhood ! Yet
it was much brighter since Hebe had entered
it. The dust was gone from the windows,
the curtains were clean, and many other
improvements had taken place. Nevertheless,
Mrs. Pike's heart sank as her keen eyes took
in every detail and, turning to her husband,
she faltered out that there must be some
mistake. Manlike, he settled the question in
the speediest way possible — by knocking.

A head came cautiously out of an upper
window ; then the door was opened, and the
truant daughter rushed into her mother's
arms. Mr. Pike had hard work to keep back
his tears, but relieved his feelings by pushing
the two women bodily into the house, for he
had a dread of a scene. At the unusual
noise, M. Dubarri came running out to see
what was the matter. He was followed by

Arnold, more leisurely ; and for some time
the party stood huddled together in the
narrow hall, all too confused or too excited
to think of moving. At length M. Dubarri
understood that it was not an invasion by
duns, and slipped away to his own room.
His departure was the signal for a general
move into the sitting-room.

Mrs. Pike's first conscious act was to glance
at the third finger of her daughter's left
hand. It was encircled by a wedding-ring.


'' My child," she said, with gentle reproach,
why didn't you tell us before it took place ?
We should have stood by your side."

Hebe clung more tightly to her mother's
neck to hide her blushes. " I told you afterwards,"
she sobbed, evading the point.
*' And I have been expecting you for days —
and you have never come — and I thought
you didn't mean to forgive me."

Told me afterwards ! "

What ! didn't you get my letter ? "

Only one."

Oh ! Arnold, and I gave it to M. Dubarri
to post."

It turned out subsequently that he had put
it in his pocket and forgotten it. Small
wonder, considering all his troubles.

While this little discussion was going on,
Mr. Pike was gradually regaining his composure
; during which process his nose rose
higher and higher until at length it made an
angle of a hundred and thirty-five with his
stiff collar, and there remained. After he
had taken a critical survey of the room, he
turned to the young man standing by his side
and said coldly —

So you have married my daughter, sir ? "

Yes."

Will you be good enough to give me
half-an-hour's private conversation with you? "

Hebe instantly rose from the couch where
she had been sitting with her mother, and
with a pretty little gesture placed her hand
within her husband's arms.

You must blame me, and not him," she
said.

When your father has heard all," said
Arnold, '' I don't think he will blame either
of us. Mr. Pike, will you come upstairs
with me ? "

Hebe was astonished at this new turn, but,
impressed by Arnold's confident manner, no
longer opposed their leaving the room
together.

That he had reason for his confidence was
soon proved. When Mr. Pike heard the
story of Mr. Valentine Gaunt's villainy, he
forgot everything else in his indignation,
which increased in violence when he remembered
that on the evening of Hebe's
disappearance he had mistaken the villain's
fear of meeting him for sympathy. He was
also able to throw some light upon the
motive ; but this, instead of helping him to a
way of bringing the culprit to justice, only
added to the difficulty, especially as he agreed
with Arnold in keeping the matter from
Hebe. Owing to his anger against Mr.
Valentine Gaunt, he had nothing but pity for
the young couple, though he might not have

been so lenient had it not been for their
poverty-stricken state. Theirs had been a
severe lesson. Indeed, one glance at Arnold's
face was enough to show what he had
suffered.

But why didn't you write to your father ? "
asked Mr. Pike. "Well, well," added he,
with a pleased smile, " Hebe wrote to her
mother, so I ought to be satisfied. When I
return to Puddleton, I shall take Mr. Sterne's
advice, and no doubt we shall manage a
reconciliation between us."

Arnold offered no opposition. Since his
marriage the grindstone of poverty had made
short work of his pride, but being the same
obstinate fellow as ever, he was loth to take
the initiative. Still, he was not going to
throw any difficulties in the way of his
father-in-law.

There is one thing more I want to ask
you," said Mr. Pike. He then narrated the
handkerchief incident and inquired the meaning
of the " no name."

Arnold explained that they were living

with an old Frenchman who had been exceedingly
kind to them. He supposed their
name to be Oressingham, and as he pretended
to know something about the Doctor, it had
not been considered prudent to undeceive
him. The matter had better remain as it
was, until it could be cleared up.

But how does he address your wife ? "
demanded Mr. Pike.

As Madame Hebe. And I am Arnold to
everybody."

Humph ! I suppose it's all right." He
scarcely knew whether to smile or frown, his
thoughts were in such confusion. " Will
you send my wife up to me ? "

After the old couple had conferred together,
they once more joined Arnold and Hebe in
the sitting-room, their cheerful faces showing
that the last chance of a storm had passed
away. At their particular request, M.
Dubarri was sent for and introduced to them,
and he entered bowing and smiling, evidently
thinking that the expected fortune had come
at last. He wore his frock-coat carefully

buttoned, to hide the absence, not merely of
his watch and chain, but also of his waistcoat,
which had gone the same way, together with
a good many other things. Indeed, but for
Hebe's money which she had contrived to
lay out secretly and well, and M. Dubarri's
energy in popping round the corner, with
odd-looking bundles under his arm, they
would have been in terrible straits. As it
was, they were at this moment reduced to
their last shilling, which M. Dubarri carried
in his pocket and rattled against his latchkey.


I suppose," said Mr. Pike, sniffing
around with the air of a hungry man who
expected to perceive a grateful smell of
cooking, " it must be near your dinner hour,
M. Dubarri."

These words gave a severe shock to the
beleaguered garrison. M. Dubarri, dismayed
at the frightful thought of having to ask the
visitors to dinner, blinked at Arnold; and
Arnold stared at Hebe, who hid her miserable
young face in her hands.

We were not going to dine to-day," she
stammered, " because "

'' Great Heavens ! " cried Mr. Pike, starting
to his feet. " I had no idea it was so bad as
this. How horrible ! M. Dubarri, we'll go
shopping."

So the two old fogies trotted off together,
M. Dubarri radiant with delight, and swaggering
as if he owned the whole street. Under
his escort the lawyer grew quite frolicsome ;
and soon provisions were pouring into the
house almost by the cart-load. The old
housekeeper had to be continually running
to the door to receive all manner of butcher's
meat, fish, poultry, potted meat, pastry, bread,
wine, vegetables, coals, everything that Mr.
Pike could think of. On one occasion he
observed M. Dubarri, who had modestly
declared himself to be judge of everything,
made a sudden dart past a grocer's door ;
and, after some difficulty, found the reason
to be a bill. He went in and paid it.

"I shake you by the hand, sir," cried
M. Dubarri, suiting the action to the word.

VOL. III. F

You, you — well, let me be frank. You
have saved us from starvation. And that
sweet young lady "

But he could not get on at all, the tears
vere streaming from his eyes.

Mr. Pike paid every bill they owed in the
place, and thus raised the siege which had
lasted for many a weary month.

It was a merry party that gathered round
the dinner-table in the dismal little sitting-room,
and never was there a more courteous,
genial host than M. Dubarri. The only thing
that worried him was, that Mr. Pike was not
as steady in passing the bottle as he might
be; and once, when it got rather a severe
shake, he cried aloud in his agony. He paid
the most outrageous compliments to Mrs.
Pike and Hebe — poor old fellow, it was about
the only thing he could pay ; he likened
Mr. Pike to an angel, and Arnold to somebody
very little lower, a duke probably ;
though he ate but little himself, he liked to
see everybody else eating ; he shook hands
with each in turn, not once but often ; and

when he eventually laid his knife and fork
parallel to himself and rose to his feet, a
speech was evidently forthcoming. But, unlike
Mr. Jostler, he felt too strongly to say
much. What he did say amounted to this ;
that it was the happiest day in his life. And
for once the words were no mere formula.

Still, it must be confessed that, grateful as
Mr. and Mrs. Pike felt towards M. Dubarri,
and much as they liked him, he was a great
difficulty to them. They could not leave him
to starve ; and yet what were they to do with
him ? Before moving the young couple into
better quarters, which they wished to do as
soon as possible, they had this very hard nut
to crack. He was far too proud to accepta
present ; they saw that at once, and their
object was to benefit him without appearing
to do so.

He had, however, one peculiarity which
offered them a slight opportunity. When
he had nothing else to do, he was always
inventing something which would infallibly
bring him a fortune if only he could advertise

it. For this purpose he had no objection
to accepting a loan, to be repaid either in
shares of the company, when formed, or in
cash, with a gigantic bonus. His last invention
was a contrivance for curing smoky
chimneys. He put its value at a hundred
thousand pounds, though reckoned by his
own enthusiasm, it was certainly priceless.
Mr. Pike, whose views on the subject were
less sanguine, offered him some money to
advertise it, and was embraced on the spot.
When M. Dubarri had somewhat recovered
himself, he wrote out a guarantee that the
lawyer should receive a certain number of
shares in the new company ; and then rushed
off to the newspaper offices to advertise his
valuable chimney-pot. Not a penny of the
money would he divert from the purpose for
which he had obtained it, so the loan did
nothing to remove the difficulty.

Mr. Pike determined to let matters stand
for the present. Perhaps when the Doctor
heard what M. Dubarri had done for Arnold,
he would engage him as a French tutor.

Meanwhile, there was really no need to make
any change. Unable to tear himself away
from the happiness that he himself had
caused, Mr. Pike stayed nearly a week in
London ; and when he returned to Middleton,
he left his wife behind.

Early on the following afternoon, she and
Hebe went out shopping together. . Arnold
and M. Dubarri were alone in the sitting-room,
the latter in a more restless mood than
usual. Before darting into one of his own
secrets, he had a way of buzzing around it
like a moth around a flame. As we have
already seen, he had nearly singed his wings
in this manner more than once, and had
drawn back at the last moment ; but now,
affected by the sight of his friend's happiness,
he only wanted an opportunity to pour out
his own trouble.

I often see that man Jacques about," said
Arnold musingly. " I mean the man that
came to the window in Momus Street. Who
is he?"

Let me be frank," said M. Dubarri from

the hearth rug. " I used to employ him to
applaud my pupils when they first went on
the stage." — Arnold thought of the applause
that he got from a corner of the gallery. —
He is a claqueur. He has brought me
many pupils, I think."

By his looks, I should say his best occupation
would be dangling at the end of the
hangman's rope."

Perhaps," said M. Dubarri, with a shrug
of the shoulders. " Once he was useful, but
he did nothing."

'Tis a favourite way of being useful."

You laugh ? No matter. I set him to
hunt that sly cat, Mr. Valentine Gaunt, and "
he hesitated, looked keenly at Arnold, and
then dashed at it — " that rascal, M. Coping-stone."


May I ask what has he done to offend
you?

Eh bien ! I shall tell you. He ran
away with my intended wife."

Without the least visible trace of emotion,
Arnold rose from the couch, lifted M. Dubarri

from the ground, and shook him as a terrier
shakes a rat. While he was thus engaged,
the door was opened, and the old housekeeper
announced —

The Eev. Leonard Sterne."

CHAPTER IT,

THE MISSING Link.

"Arnold," exclaimed Sterne in amazement,
what is the meaning of this ? "

Allow me to introduce yon, Mr. Sterne,
to my friend, M. Dubarri," coolly replied
Arnold, holding np the unfortunate little
Frenchman and still shaking him. " I'm
giving him a gratuitous lesson in good
manners." With which he dropped him on
the couch.

M. Dubarri, who had alighted in a sitting-posture,
neither spoke nor moved. He sat
there blinking, too dazed even to feel angry.
His introductions to these two had certainly
been out of the common run,

Your method is new," said Sterne grimly,
and, I should almost think, original."

"New dise>^-srs ir . :':e new remedies,"
returned Avoid. " ^L I;ui>arri has had the
impudence to accuse my father of having ran
away with his inte::!- 1 ~::r. X^^er having
heard this lie before, I ~ ;i :::/ - 1 to inventa
never :treatment.

'• I: i- ite true, sirs said M. Dabarri,
"I do assure jour But how co^i- 1 I :r That
Mr. Copingstone was Mr. '' : ri's

father? K I liii known, woa.-i I i^iiV- said
it ? Sapristi, no !

"What slab I do to him, Mr. Stem?"
-: J^ ::" ietlj, clenching his fist.

•• I : :^ truth'' again declared M.

r» ; v:: Clive me the opportunity, and I

rove it."

Hold your tongue. Mr. Sterne, what
- I do to him?"

• Nothing. A: '■" replied Sterne.

story, I have i.:- ^ ::^: ~t-h;.'^ ': . ; .-t ::
explain it to the satisfaction : :i :: f r ".

Tue.f was an elasticity :- L^ : :

: : : - : i"angely with his weariness

during the last few clays. If his expression
was not altogether free from wonderment, it
was singularly cheerful ; indeed, it was almost
possible to imagine a smile playing about his
long severe face, he looked so confident. All
this time, holding the tasselled hat in his
hand, he had been standing in the same spot
near the door. But now M. Dubarri sprang
up, and with many apologies for his rudeness,
led him to the armchair, and then returned
to the couch, where Arnold sat down by his
side.

^' It is absolutely necessary," said Sterne,
"to hear this story and probe it to the
bottom. In this way we shall be able to do
your father, Arnold, an inestimable service.
You can't understand this at present, so many
strange events have taken place in Puddleton
since you left, but it will doubtless be made
clear to you in time. Can you listen calmly,
or will you leave us alone ? "

Go ahead, M. Dubarri," said Arnold.
But first tell me the lady's name."

Lucy Merle."

Then you have wronged my father, as I
knew you had. My mother's maiden name
was Mary Morgan."

Here was a fresh complication —apparently
a third wife for this singular old Doctor of
Divinity ! Yet Sterne's remarkable confidence
never left him ; he spoke as if he was
beginning to see his way more clearly at last.
If the. problem was not yet completely solved,
he felt that he had got hold of the missing
link which would enable him to put the
others in their proper places.

M. Dubarri hasn't wronged your father
intentionally, Arnold," he said.

Surely not," cried M. Dubarri. " Are
we not friends? I shake you by the hand,
my friend."

After a slight hesitation, Arnold accepted
the proffered hand.

Now I shall begin," said M. Dubarri.
There is no need to go through my whole
history. But I must tell you I used to be a
man of some importance in my own country ;
and after — well, you see what I am now.

However, poverty is not a crime, tliougli
some people think so. To be perfectly frank,
I confess I have often been what you call
hard-up. I was hard-up in January, nineteen
years ago. I carried my wardrobe on my
back, and inside " — he patted the place where
his waistcoat ought to be — " there was
usually an empty larder. It is not a pleasant
sensation, my friends, for an honest man. I
read the journals diligently but saw nothing
suitable, until one fine day there came an
advertisement for a French tutor at Hastings.
I wrote and was accepted. Now I am in
clover, as your English proverb says. The
gentleman I assisted was the Eev. C. C.
Copingstone, a tall thin clergyman who had
lately lost his wife. I got on with his pupils
very well and gave every satisfaction. As I
lived in the house, I had nothing to pay for
board and lodging ; so I made a little money,
invested it in many ways, and made more
money. ^ Soon,' I say to myself, ' I shall
have a fortune.' And now what do I do ?
I play the fool ; I fall in love with a pretty

face. I am a judge of beauty, sir, I do assure
you, and Lucy Merle was beautiful, with a

face like But," added he, taking firm

hold of his faltering voice, " why should I
bother you ? She was a lady without doubt,
but, being poor, acted as Mr. Copingstone's
housekeeper. When I told him we were
engaged, he seemed very pleased to hear it,
and for a time all went happily. But one
dark morning there is no Lucy Merle. I
run about — I tear my hair — I am in agony —
but I cannot find my love. And Mr. Coping-stone,
where is he ? Ma foi, he is gone too.
He has run off with my intended wife."
Once more he faltered and then dashed on
again. " I followed them to London, but it
was useless. Since then I have kept my
eyes open, hunted among advertisements for
pupils and tutors, searched the Clerical
Directory done everything, but without
finding a trace of the reverend — of your
father, Arnold, if he is your father."

Arnold looked in some perplexity at Sterne,
who was thoughtfully stroking his beard.

You say the initials were C. C, M.
Dubarri," said Sterne. " Do you know what
they represented ? "

Two curious names : Claude and Cyprian.
Here is his signature." And he produced
the slip of paper that Arnold had already
seen.

A slight shadow crossed Sterne's face ashe
read it, but he laid it down on the table
without comment.

Does Mr. Valentine Gaunt know your
story ? " he asked.

Ah, yes. He terrified me into telling
him a short time ago. He knew a little of it
before, but not all. He is not a man, that
stealthy Mr. Yalentine Gaunt ; he is a — mais
non, you are a clergyman."

Terrified you ! How ? But stay, I have
no right to ask." And it was just as well ;
if he had learnt the whole truth he would
never have forgiven the old fellow, penitent
as he was. " What did he want with your
secret ? "

''I cannot tell," replied M. Dubarri, spreading

out the palms of his hands. " It is a
great puzzle to me."

Does he know this Mr. Copirigstone ? "

*' I begin to think so, for he showed me a
sketch of him." This Sterne knew was the
sketch made by Plantagenet. " Where can
he have got it unless he knows the man ? I
have tried to follow him ; but though I think
I am not a fool, he is such a crafty fellow
that I always fail."

But, look here, M. Dubarri," said Arnold ;
where was I all this time ? I must have
been somewhere eighteen years ago."

Ah ! ah ! It is strange. Mr. Coping-stone
had only a baby daughter."

And what became of her ? " demanded
Sterne.

While I was hunting for him in London
he sneaked back to Hastings and carried her
off. That was what the old woman in charge
of the house told me when I returned there.
The pupils were gone, the furniture had been
sold, there were bills in the windows, and
my things were all packed up, ready for me
to take away."

There could be no doubt that the reopening
of the old wound had stirred up his feelings,
and that, mingled with his grief, there was a
certain amount of animosity against the man
who had wronged him. At the same time,
there was a good deal of froth about the old
fellow. With his quick temperament, it was
impossible after all these years for him to
cherish any real resentment, though he might
imagine he did, and even be capable of
putting forward a very plausible substitute.
His outward expression was scarcely a reliable
index to his emotions ; and in any
case, if left to themselves, they would soon
evaporate.

Such was Sterne's conclusion after watching
him attentively.

"M. Dubarri," he said, ''yoa would not
willingly do anything to injure your friend
Arnold, or his father ? "

"Arnold — no, certainly not. Arnold's
father — Eh hen ! if he is the man, I forgive
him for Arnold's sake."

I'm sure you'll never regret it. Are you

a very busy man ? Can you place the next
two days at my disposal ? "

With pleasure, sir," replied M. Dubarri
with a bow.

'' Thank yon, M. Dubarri. It will be
not only conferring a great favour upon me,
but also doing an inestimable service to
Arnold's father. I am going back this afternoon
; so you must travel alone, if you
don't mind. To-morrow evening, would you
kindly take the five o'clock train to Stilbury,
where you weill find a conveyance waiting to
bring you over to me ? When you arrive, we
can arrange our plans. Will that suit you ? "

Certainly," replied M. Dubarri, with a
very red face, for he was wondering how on
earth he was to raise his travelling expenses.
The dreadful idea came upon him with such
a sudden rush that he felt the cause of his
heightened colour must be perfectly plain.
This impression had to be cleared away at
once. To correct any hastily formed opinion
of his want of means, he offered his visitor
some of the wine provided by Mr. Pike.

VOL. III. G

No, thank you," replied Sterne. " I
seldom touch alcoholic drinks."

We dine late," said M. Dubarri, in a
lordly way. " Of course, you will dine with
us."

I should be delighted, only I have no
time, thank you. I dined on a sandwich at
tha station, and that must last me until I get
back." He had risen to depart, but stopped
in the act of shaking hands to ask, "By
the way, did you employ any one to look for
Mr. Copingstone ? " Whereupon he described
the French beggar.

Why," said Arnold, " that is that rascal
Jacques."

Ah, yes, I dare say he is a rascal," said
M. Dubarri, with a knowing twinkle in his
eyes. " He is a cunning fellow, but useful."

I have a strong suspicion," said Sterne,
"• that he is in the pay of Mr. Valentine
Gaunt."

M. Dubarri staggered back, looking very
crestfallen. It was unpleasant to find that
in playing with edged tools he had cut his

own fingers. It threw rather a sombre light
upon his knowledge of the world. Altogether,
it demanded an outbreak of virtuous
indignation.

'' Sapristi ! what a knave the fellow is ! "
cried M. Dubarri, banging his fist upon the
table. '^ Who told Mr. Valentine Gaunt we
were leaving Momus Street ? That rascal
Jacques ! Who tracked us here and brought
that sly cat to visit us ? That rascal Jacques !
Who spies upon us now and confounds all
my clever tricks ? That rascal Jacques !
Ma foi — ina foi ! I would like to kick that
rascal Jacques into the middle of next week ! '
And he lifted his foot as if he meant it.

Sterne went out laughing. He was accompanied
by Arnold, after a short skirmish with
M. Dubarri, who was anxious to show every
honour to his visitor.

But as soon as the door had closed upon
the polite old Frenchman, a change came over
the scene. The two men standing in the hall
seemed to have taken a sudden plunge into
a cold bath. The peculiarity of their meeting

and the presence of a third person had prevented
any awkwardness until now. Sterne's
manner turned almost frigid, and Arnold, as
was his way, followed suit. Though the
clergyman intended, if possible, to bring
about a reconciliation between father and
son, and thought he saw his way to doing
so, 'sand at the same time of ousting Mr.
Valentine Graunt, still he felt exceedingly
angry with the young man who had been
the cause of so much trouble. He put on
the tasselled hat before he spoke. Then he
turned and said coldly :—

It is not for me to find fault with you,
Arnold ; there are others who will do that.
To my mind, your conduct has been simply
unaccountable."

Steady there, Mr. Sterne," interrupted
Arnold. " You are doing what you admit
you have no right to do."

Yery well, I have only one question to
ask ; and, remember, it is for your father's
sake, and not for mine, that I ask it. What
induced you to take this strange step ? "

I wanted to be independent, for one
thing ; to marry Hebe for another ; and fora
third, ray father never appeared to care
what happened to rae, so long as his pupils
were all right."

This answer rather embarrassed Sterne,
for he knew that Arnold had put his finger
on one of the blots in his father's character.
Though the revival of the Doctor's love
showed that it had never been completely
extinguished by his ambition, yet before his
troubles had fanned it into new vigour, it
had dwindled down to a very small spark.
Indeed it might be doubted even now whether
his anxious search was for his son or for his
heir — for some one to love, or for the ingenious
contrivance that nature has devised
for planting along the centuries a succession
of living statues to the illustrious founder of
a family. Probably, the Doctor was influenced
by both motives.

There was another think; that cave Sterne
plenty to think about. He experienced a
sudden shock of surprise at learning that his

impassive young man who had never shown
any outward sign of affection for his father
or sister, should nevertheless have felt hurt
at their root being demonstratively affectionate
towards him. Such an idea would never
have entered Sterne's head but for this unconscious
revelation. He saw now that
Arnold was not exactly the stolid block he
was generally supposed to be. He saw also
the reason why Arnold had fallen in love
with Hebe, who had many coaxing little
ways. No doubt the Doctor, absorbed in his
pupils, had misjudged his son, who had consequently
rebelled against the cause, and if
so, there was all the more hope of putting
an end to the disastrous misunderstanding.

"Your father may not be a very demonstrative
man," said Sterne, moving towards
the door, " but if you still doubt his affection
for you, you will scarcely do so when you
see what a terrible change your conduct has
wrought in his appearance." The object
being to bring the prodigal to a thoroughly
penitent frame of mind, there was no need

to encumber the question with Mr. Valentine
Gaunt's doings. '' His hair is almost white,
Arnold ; his head is bowed ; he looks broken
in body and spirit. Good afternoon."

But Arnold caught him by the hand.

Mr. Sterne, you terrify me," he exclaimed.
Believe me, I had no notion of this. Hebe
has never told me ; nobody has told me. I
never dreamed he would care what I did or
where I went. If I had known, surely you
don't think I would have acted as I have
done. He seemed to regard me only as a
machine for carrying on his establishment.
Will you tell him what I say ? " He held
the clergyman as if he would throttle him.

Gladly, Arnold."

And will you shake hands with me ?
You are his friend."

*' Not till he has done so," replied Sterne,
speaking as the Doctor's lieutenant.

Arnold relaxed his grasp with a sigh.

^' Then won't you give me some explanation
of this incredible story ? " he said.

I can't yet ; I have to find it."

An impulse to soften this harsh answer
made him hesitate for a moment, but when
he thought of the events of the past year,
his heart was changed to stone. Without
another word, he left the house.

Before he had gone many yards along the
Harrow Road, he observed Hebe and her
mother in the distance, and turned down a
side street to avoid them. He had no wish
to meet them until he had learnt what attitude
the Doctor would adopt towards the
newly married couple. Personally he did
not approve of their conduct, and could not
yet forgive them ; but if the Doctor did so,
then he must do the same as a mere matter
of discipline. Sterne, as we have already
seen, had completely fallen under the influence
of the autocratic system by which
the Doctor ruled his tutors, pupils, and
parishioners, and to his austere type of mind
it was not unpalatable.

He had visited another person in London
besides Arnold, and repeated his visit before
returning' to Puddleton.

By a curious coincidence, the train that
carried him to Stilbury, carried also the
document that was to give Mr. Valentine
Gaunt a share in the establishment, and make
him practically irresistible. Several drafts had
already been supplied by the Doctor s London
solicitors, but Mr. Valentine G-aunt had been
cautious enough to object to them. For this
reason.: the Doctor had endeavoured to reserve
the right to pay out the incoming partner,
and had therefore inserted clause after clause,
each milder than its predecessor, but nevertheless
having the same purpose in view. He
had, however, been obliged to withdraw them
all. By the present agreement, which was
to be signed on the following day, he would
be entirely at the mercy of Mr. Valentine
Gaunt, his only safeguard being community
of interests.

Had Sterne known that he was running a
race against time, he would certainly have
altered his arrangements, and have taken
M. Dubarri with him. When he arrived at
the Hut, he vas surprisingly cheerful, considering

that the welfare of at least nine
persons depended upon what he was about todo.
None but his wife noticed a lingering
trace of anxiety, and she was astonished and
delighted at the change in him. She had a
cosy little supper ready for him in the study,
and while he ate it, she pretended to be engrossed
in some fancy work, though in reality
she was furtively watching him, too prudent
to ask questions, yet almost dying to learn
what he had been doing. But while talkative
enough on other subjects, the provoking man
carefully avoided the one thing he knew she
wished to hear about. He held his STOund
even after she had tried to bribe him by filling
his pipe and bringing him a light for it.
Sterne had one quality of which the fair sex
can scarcely approve — he liked to keep his
secrets lest they should be spoilt by too much
handling.

About half-past ten, to his wife's surprise,
he put on his hat and went for a stroll. He
felt restless, he explained, and must walk off
the feeling before he could think of going to

bed. An almost irresistible impulse led him
towards the church.

It was a lovely night, the sky cloudless,
and the moon floating like a bubble above
the poplars, which threw their long dark
shadows across the landscape. From Camel-back,
smiling down upon the village that
nestled at its base, to the well-wooded hills
and valleys in the far west, every object was
almost as clearly defined as in the daytime.
But all was silent, except for the occasional
tinkling of a sheep-bell.

When Sterne approached the little cottage
in which the sexton lived, he observed a light
in one of the lower windows. After some
hesitation he knocked at the door and asked
for the keys of the church. The old man
gave them to him wonderingly. Should
he come too and bring a lamp ? he asked,
thinking that the High Church curate might
be up to some new trick, concerning which
he ought to warn Mr. Pike, the people's
churchwarden. But Sterne declined his
services, and left him peering anxiously from
his doorway.

Inside the cliiircli, Sterne walked slowly to
and fro, pausing at each object of interest in
turn. The moonlight, pouring in through
the plain glass windows, would, for many of
us, have called up a congregation of shadowy
forms, worshipping as once they did when
there was less sculptured marble on the walls,
or perhaps no handsome old brasses in the
chancel, or no antique font in the aisle. But
Leonard Sterne's attention was fixed upon
more modern times. He gazed with fond
admiration at the beautiful east window, the
fine organ, the carved stalls for the choristers,
and, with the moonbeams falling upon his
pale, resolute, upturned face, he stood for a
while at the lectern. How hard he had
worked to get the pupils and their parents to
subscribe for these things. And now if he
failed ! His weary sigh seemed to be echoed
from every pew. Rating himself for his
weakness, he hurried out and locked the
door.

Just as he was leaving the ivy-clad porch,
he caught sight of a tall thin figure in the

churchyard. The high sloping hat proclaimed
it to be the Doctor. With his hands
clasped, but otherwise in a watchful attitude,
as if he had been disturbed by some unusual
noise, he was standing by his wife's grave
which was bright with flowers and carefully
tended ; a strange contrast to most of the
other tombstones around, they being chipped
and lichen-stained, and inclined to the sky at
every imaginable angle.

As soon as the Doctor recognized Sterne,
he advanced to meet him, and the two men
shook hands with great warmth. But after
the first wistful look, each avoided the other's
eye, which was not very bright in either
case, and scarcely a word passed between
them. As if by telegraphic signal, their
thoughts had simultaneously turned to the
same subject, yet neither of them could have
put into plain language the reason why he
was so silent. Both were under the influence
of feelings that have no need of vocal interpreter
— feelings never more impressive than
when one is standing beneath the vast moonlit

dome of night, among the emblems of
man's littleness.

The Doctor, who looked thoroughly miserable
and worn out, was wondering what had
caused such a remarkable change in Sterne's
appearance, but he pushed his inquiries no
further than that first eager glance. Indeed,
he "stood with his furrowed face averted, for
the morrow was to witness the signature of
the deed of partnership which would enable
Mr. Valentine Gaunt to work his malicious
will. Would not one of his first acts be to
dismiss Sterne ? The Doctor was blushing
for himself beforehand. While he intended
to make a desperate fight when the time
came, he knew what the end would be ; and
yet he dared not tell Sterne of the impending
blow. Nay, more, he clung to the mad hope
that he would be able to keep the partnership
a secret till his death ; after which, Arnold
being no longer available, it did not matter
what happened.

In short, the Doctor knew his weakness
and reproached himself bitterly for it. He

felt SO tender-hearted towards Sterne that he
could have burst into tears. There was only
one thing that sustained him.

Sterne, for his part, was telling himself
that he would have been an inhuman monster
had he distrusted the Doctor. Tired out as
his poor old friend always was at an early
hour in the evening, yet what had he been
doing at dead of night but praying by his
wife's grave ! Was this a man to be doubted,
full of little faults as he might be ? Sterne
felt very thankful indeed for what he had
seen. It was with a full heart that he said
good night ; and he lingered on the way
home, not feeling quite able at first to meet
his wife's searching gaze.

CHAPTER Y.

ox THE BRINK.

Mr. Pike called at the Hut early next
morning and was shown into the study,
Adhere Sterne was hard at work and had
been for hours. There was no coldness
about their greeting this time, for they
were bound together by a common purpose.
While neither took the smallest direct interest
in Arnold, it was the object of both to bring
him back to Puddleton and reinstate him in
the Doctor's favour. The one was anxious
to pull him out of his difficulties for Hebe's
sake, the other for the Doctor's sake. If he
had stood alone, he would have fared badly
as far as they were concerned.

Should Sterne's project be successful, the

father would be the more ready to forgive
the son who had, in some measure, contributed
towards its success ; accidentally, no
doubt, but when the feelings are involved,
the logical faculty becomes an able courtier.
Hence, Sterne intended to play his game out
before telling the Doctor of his discovery.
Furthermore, as he wished to act wholly
upon his own responsibility, he had resolved
not to disclose any of the details to his present
visitor.

Take the armchair, Mr. Pike," he said,
turning it round. '^ No, oh no, you're not
disturbing me at all. I have been sitting so
long that I prefer to stand."

And he placed himself with his back to
the grate.

Mr. Pike sat down in his usual way : as if
rheumatism was indigenous to his whole
body, but especially to his collar-bound
neck.

Well, Mr. Sterne, what news ? " he asked.

None till tomorrow, Mr. Pike."

Humph ! You see, I am anxious to have

VOL. in. H

matters settled as soon as possible, for I want
to get back to my wife and Hebe."

And I," said Sterne, " am just as anxious
on the Doctor's account."

Then will you tell me what you have
done so far ? "

I'm afraid I can't."

Tir. Pike began to look dissatisfied.

'' I must confess," he said, " I don't like
waiting in the dark. However, if you think
you can bring the case to a successful issue
tomorrow, I suppose I must give you another
day's grace."

That will be quite enough," said Sterne ;
at least, I think so. I have made all my
arrangements for this evening."

At these words Mr. Pike went off on a
fresh scent.

I met that scoundrel Gaunt going up to
the Rectory," he cried, clenching his fist and
shaking it at Sterne. '' The fellow had the
impudence to bow to me. By Heavens ! sir,
I could have struck him to the ground."

Not a very professional thing to do, Mr.

Pike," observed Sterne with a smile. Knowing
nothing about the deed of partnership,
he took but little interest in this news.

Doubtless, but a father's feelings pay
small heed to legal etiquette."

Don't you think it would damage him
more if you could contrive to get him into
Chancery, or something of that sort ? "

Mr. Pike took this seriously.

Ah ! but what irritates me is this," he
cried ; '' the fellow has committed no crime
in the eyes of the law. More than that, he
has managed his business so that we are
tongue-tied for Hebe's sake ; and even if we
could speak, there is not a scrap of writing
against him ; he could oppose his word to
hers, and there would be an end of the
matter. We can't prove animus ; we can't
show a motive that would go down with a
thick-headed jury ; we can't do anything but
get the Doctor to turn him out of the place."

'-' If necessary," said Sterne thoughtfully,
would you meet the Doctor ? "

The pompous little man stiffened at once.

He sat bolt upright in his chair, and caressed
his hat.

As I have already told you, Mr. Sterne,"
he replied, " the Doctor and I have had a
slight difference of opinion. I consider he
owes me an apology."

'- Eemember, Mr. Pike, we ought to pull
together."

Precisely so. The very thing I would
like you to impress upon the Doctor."

Sterne smiled. The one virtue that we
pray may be bestowed upon our neighbours,
is Christian charity. He was about to put
this idea into a polite form, when Mr. Pike,
thinking he detected a sermon in the background,
pulled out his watch, and suddenly
remembered that he had urgent business to
attend to. The people's churchwarden was
the last person in the world to stand being
preached at by the opposition curate — Mr.
Pike was Low Church — so he took his leave
and strutted off with great dignity.

Sterne lighted his pipe, and sat down to
think. He pulled all his plans to pieces and

put them together again. In the end, he
left them exactly as he had arranged them
at first. Then he placed the tips of his
thumb and forefinger close together, and
carefully watched to see whether they would
touch. Yes, they touched very often, and do
what he would, he could not steady them.
Clearly he was getting very nervous. He
turned to his writing again, but before very
long, was interrupted by the headlong
entrance of Philip Strathclyde.

After thundering at the door, Philip burst
into the room, and wrung Sterne's hand with
frightful violence. He was radiant with
delight.

Hooray ! " he shouted. " I've passed.
I've passed. Hooray ! ''

^' How high ? "

"First in the list," replied the handsome
lad, blushing like a girl.

Well done, Philip 1 " exclaimed Sterne,
clapping him on the back. " That ought to
soften the Doctor's heart, after all his other
failures. When did you hear ? "

Oh ! a day or two ago. But we have
only just returned from Glenurleigh."

Philip, his aunt, and his cousin, had been
spending the last few weeks of the vacation
with the Duke of Tudor, Plantagenet's father.
Besides a warm friendship between the two
young fellows at Harrow, and afterwards at
Puddleton, there was some relationship between
the families.

'I Well," said Sterne, " and did you enjoy
your visit ? "

I should have done " He coloured

and hung his head.

If Nellie had been there," added Sterne,
laughing.

I went because the others washed me to
go. But, dear me, I have no right to complain,
for our visit brought about a grand
result. Plantagenet and Mildred are engaged."


I have been expecting to hear of their
engagement for some time." Intelligence
Department again.

'' There goes another obstacle," said Philip.

My aunt, can no longer oppose my marriage
with Nellie."

True. And the Manor property ? "

Goes to Mildred, of course. It was to be
mine only if I married her, which I knew
never would be the case. My aunt asked if I
objected to the engagement. Objected ! Why,
I vas never more delighted in my life. Now
I am free to undertake my twofold mission : to
marry the Doctor's daughter, and find his son."

Pleasure first and business afterwards,
you sly young dog, Philip," laughed Sterne,
discreetly suppressing any allusion to Arnold.
'' Have you seen Nellie yet ? "

No. I rushed off to the Eectory before I
came here, but that bruce Higgins wouldn't
let me in. He's a perfect riddle, the white-headed
old sphinx. One day he's winking,
another day smiling, and to-day frowning ;
yet he never opens his mouth to explain his
meaning. You never saw such a face as he
pulled at me this morning, just as if he had
been eating sour fruit. Do you think he's
going off his head ? "

"Higgins," said Sterne thoughtfully, 'ris
as sharp as a needle. He is wonderfully
quick in reflecting the Doctor's moods."

In which case, there's a nasty storm
brewing. I must go and talk to the Doctor
at once." And he rose to his feet.

But Sterne urged patience, at least until
the morrow, Philip objected that the first
batch of pupils would have returned then,
and the Doctor would consequently be in
an" excited state during the daytime, and
exhausted in the evening ; but he eventually
yielded to the arguments of his older friend,
vague as they were. In order to avoid introducing
fresh complications, the Doctor never
liking to retreat from a position that he
had once successfully defended, Philip also
promised to keep away from the Rectory for
this one day. It was only with the greatest
reluctance, however, that he gave the promise,
for he had a strong dislike to doing anything
without knowing why. He wore a very
reproachful look afterwards, and left in
rather a huff.

Sterne returned to his work. He had a
considerable number of letters to write for
the Doctor. They occupied the whole morning
and the greater part of the afternoon,
though many of them were only receipts.
As soon as they were finished, he put on his
hat, and started for a brisk walk.

It was a fine afternoon, with a gentle
breeze purring among the dog-roses in the
hedgerows. The sunlight, sprinkled through
a cloudy trellis work, was lying in quaint
patterns upon the undulating country. The
corn was partly cut, but in some fields the
reapers were at work, their distant voices
blending with the harsh notes of the land-rail.


About a mile from the village, the road
ploughed its way through a hill ; and here
hundreds of martins were skimming the air,
or peeping from their holes in the red sandy
banks which rose perpendicularly on either
hand, to disappear behind screens of honeysuckle.
The hill itself was planted with tall
firs, which nodded and talked in mysterious

whispers as if they had something very
important on hand.

Just beyond the cutting there was a pretty
little cottage embedded among the trees. It
had a long narrow garden in front, sloping-down
to the road. The whole occupied a
mere slice in the plantation. When Sterne
was opening the wicket-gate, he saw Nellie
coming down the garden — a charming picture
in a charming frame. Her expression was
very sad, and her face, he thought, unusually
flushed.

Good afternoon, Nellie," said Sterne.
You don't look very well."

I have a slight headache, Mr. Sterne,"
she replied, with a smile, " but it is nothing
much. Are you going to see poor little
Susan ? She is dreadfully ill, I'm afraid."
And Nellie turned and looked back at the
cottage to see the anxious mother gazing at
them from the door.

I didn't know there was anything the
matter with her."

She was taken ill three days ago. I

found out by her not coming to the Sunday
school : so I called yesterday to inquire and
afterwards sent Dr. Fogge. But he seems to
be completely puzzled."

It's nothing very serious, I dare say,"
said Sterne, who had had a good deal of
parochial experience. " Mumps, perhaps, or
measles. Every little ailment becomes a
deadly pestilence in a mother's eyes." It
was in gentler tones that he added : " I
suppose you have heard that Philip has
passed, first in the list ? "

Yes," replied Nellie, blushing. But the
gleam of pleasure that lighted up her brie
eyes died out the next moment.

Sterne was watching her with kindly
interest. He saw the shadow on her pretty
face, and wondered at its meaning. But
when he caught a tremulous motion of the
pouting lips, he took her hand and said
cheerfully —

Believe me, Nellie, all will yet be well."

She glanced at him timidly, hesitated, and
then faltered, " My father says it mustn't be."

What ! changed his mind again ! "

Oh ! but I don't know that he changed it
before. He spoke with dreadful decision last
night, and, oh, Mr. Sterne, can't we help
him ? "

Here, then, was the explanation of Higgins's
manner, though it was strange how he learnt
his master's opinions. Sterne felt sincerely
thankful that he had made Philip promise to
keep away from the Eectory. It would have
been a heavy blow for the lad, elated by his
success.

Sterne did what he could, without divulging
his plans, to comfort Nellie, but the mention
of Philip's name had thrown her into a queer
changeable mood altogether. At something
he said to her she burst out laughing ; the
next moment she was in tears. He thought
her a little hysterical, and offered to accompany
her home ; but she declined his offer, and
went away through the fields by herself.

As soon as she was out of sight, she gave
way to a violent fit of weeping, and for a
long time sat in a quiet corner, nursing her

grief. It was nearly dinner-tinie when she
arrived at the Eectory. Higgins met her in
the hall, with the information that she was to
have one guest, Mr. Valentine Gaunt, who
was at that moment waiting in the drawing-room.
She ran upstairs, shuddering ; yet at
the sound of the gong appeared looking very
brave and determined.

Mr. Valentine Gaunt offered her his arm.
She turned her back upon him, and, taking
her father's hand, gently drew him from the
room. He kept glancing back apologetically,
foolish old man, speaking to each in turn and
trying to please both. Higgins, standing at
attention by the door, gazed with stony
gravity at this curious little procession ; yet
watchful as he was, it is doubtful whether
even he noticed the least sign of discomposure
in the slighted guest who sauntered after
the father and daughter, with his hands in
his pockets. At the same time, there was a
suspicious redness about his cheekbones, and
occasionally he smiled with malicious triumph.

If Nellie could have invented an excuse

for not leaving the two men together, she
would gladly have done so, for she had never
seen her father looking so wretched. He did
glance imploringly at her once or twice, but
it so happened that she noticed none of these
mute appeals. Eventually, after saying that
she would come and fetch him, unless he
appeared in the drawing-room within ten
minutes, she left the room.

I called to see you this morning, Dr.
Copingstone," said Mr. Yalentine Gaunt.

Ah ! so Higgins told me."

I suppose you forgot that the deed of
partnership was to have been signed this
morning."

The deed ! oh yes. Help yourself, Mr.
Gaunt."

The fact of the matter was, the Doctor had
mounted one of his cobs immediately after
breakfast, and had ridden as far from the
reach of the enemy as possible. Anything to
put off the evil day. He had only returned a
few minutes before dinner. Of that long ride
he could never give any intelligible account.

He bad not the least idea of where he had
been, what be had done, or even whether he
had had any food. Looking back upon it
afterwards, he could describe it only as a
hideous nightmare with a single spectre — the
man now rising from his seat.

No, no more wine, thank you," said Mr.
Yalentine Gaunt. " We had better go into
the study and finish our business at once."

Wearily the Doctor rose and led the way
into the study. When he had turned up the
lamp, he sat down in the carved oak chair
and produced the deed from one of the
drawers in the writing-table. Both windows
were open, and the light breeze was rustling
the curtains, which were only partly drawn.

Mr. Yalentine Gaunt walked to the bell
and rang it; after which he placed himself
opposite the Doctor, the writing-table between
them.

We want a couple of witnesses," he said,
folding his arms.

Higgins entered.

I wish you and Martha to witness our

signatures, Higgins," said the Doctor. " Be
as quick as you can."

After a fidgety interval of five minutes or
so, the two servants entered and drew up by
the door, Higgins with much solemnity,
Martha inclined to grin. It was evident that
she had insisted upon putting on a new cap
and a clean apron before presenting herself.
If she had come in rags, her appearance
would scarcely have been noticed.

When the Doctor took up the pen, his
hand was shaking as if he had been stricken
with palsy. He made a nervous dab at the
inkpot, missed it the first time, but was more
successful the second, and scribbled his name,
when —

Sapristi ! that is not the reverend diable,"
said a voice in an undertone ; and then cried
excitedly, " Tenez — tenez— tenez ! Hold your
hand, sir."

Mr. Yalentine Gaunt instinctively leaned
across the table to grasp the deed, but the
Doctor, half risen to his feet, laid both his
hands firmly upon it. In these attitudes they

seemed petrified, their faces turned towards
the window that looked out upon the lawn-tennis
ground. They were standing thus,
the two servants looking on with well-trained
curiosity, when, a moment or two later,
Leonard Sterne entered the room.

Pointing to the deed, he exclaimed with
scarcely repressed excitement —

Tear up that nonsense, Dr. Copings tone ! "

VOL. in.

CHAPTER YI.

A BOLD Manoeuvre.

The money lent to M. Dubarri for the purpose
of advertising his invaluable chimneypot
enabled him to reach Puddleton in
accordance with Sterne's instructions. He
felt sure he was throwing away innumerable
chances of making a fortune, but consoled
himself with the reflection that he was yielding
to necessity. He firmly intended to
repay himself at the earliest opportunity,
for the impulse given to his idea by Mr.
Pike's loan had made him rabid on the
subject of advertisements. Indeed, he was
so certain of the success of his company, of
which he and Mr. Pike were still the only
shareholders, that he had already promised
untold wealth to all his friends.

Meanwhile, he was greatly distressed at
the absence of his watch and chain. Having
been accustomed to regard them as the outward
signs of respectability, he had always
worn them so that they could be seen without
any difficulty. It was a melancholy state of
affairs when he had to go about in a tightly
buttoned coat. While decking himself out
in his most imposing style, he pondered
several little ruses, in case some inconsiderate
person should consult him about the time.
However, nothing of the sort happened,
though he kept a suspicious eye upon his
solitary fellow-traveller, an old lady with a
basket ; and when the train reached Stilbury,
he made her a hasty bow and vanished.

A closed fly met him at the station and
conveyed him to the Hut, where he dined
with Leonard Sterne. Mrs. Sterne did not
put in an appearance until afterwards. Alien
she entered the room, her husband introduced
her to their visitor and left them together ;
and when he returned, she went away. A
curious Box-and-Cox sort of arrangement

that set M. Dubarri wondering. He concluded
— hastily, as usual — that Sterne and
his wife were not on very good terms.

Sterne's plan was based upon his intimate
acquaintance with the daily routine at the
Rectory. The Doctor, he knew, would be in
his study after dinner, and the windows
would be open. Hence he was to enter the
room, while M. Dubarri was to take his stand
at-the window looking out upon the lawn-tennis
ground, whence he could get a good
view of the Doctor. If M. Dubarri's story
should turn out to have been correct, he was
to walk back to the Hut ; but if there had
been some mistake, he was to say so, loud
enough to be heard bv those in the room.
He would then be called inside, and the
cobwebs of that venomous spider, scandal,
brushed away once and for all.

This plan was, as we have seen, slightly
modified by an unforeseen circumstance — the
presence of Mr. Valentine Graunt.

As soon as M. Dubarri, peering through
the window, saw the two men at the writings

and the servants in the background, he
was impressed by the gravity of the situation
and broke out into the exclamations we have
already heard. Sterne, who was in the hall
at the time, was almost overpowered with
delight, for he felt that his confidence had
been justified and his friend's troubles were
coming to an end.

The manner of his arrival, scornful yet
excited, created almost as much sensation as
that startling voice at the window had done.
Ai'ter sending Higgins and Martha back to
the kitchen, he beckoned to M. Dubarri, who
speedily joined him.

The four were standing round the table,
for no one felt capable of sitting. The
Doctor, in his usual place, was leaning
slightly forward, with his hands resting upon
the document he had just signed, and his
expression a strange mixture of trouble, perplexity,
fear, and an eager hope which he
dared not encourage. Upon his right was
Leonard Sterne, smiling for very happiness
at his vis-a-vis, M. Dubarri, whose little

screwed-up eyes were twinkling mischievously,
his attitude not unlike that of a professional
conjuror. The Doctor was faced by
Mr. Yalentine Gaunt, scowling at first; but
afterwards trying to look supercilious across
his folded arms. The lamp in the centre cast
its mellow light upon all, so there was no
shadow to hide any play of features.

For a few moments, swift searching glances
were exchanged in silence. Each seemed
anxious to learn as much as possible about
the others before commencing the fight. At
length Mr. Valentine Gaunt threw down the
gauntlet with a sneer.

Is Mr. Sterne in the habit of bursting
into other people's houses in this way ? " he
asked. " It is after dinner, I know ; but that
is scarcely a sufficient reason for interrupting
important private business."

Ah-ha ! " said M. Dubarri, tapping him
on the shoulder. " Your traps are very
clever. They have caught that sly old fox,
Mr. Valentine Gaunt."

You are insolent, sir."

It is merely my little joke." He laid his
forefinger on the tip of his nose and smiled.
^' You corrupt my man Jacques to spy upon
me. I discharge him and come to visit you.
I hope I see you well."

What is the meaning of it all, Mr.
Sterne ? " demanded the Doctor.

For some reason known only to yourself,
you have allowed a stain to rest upon your
character. It has no business to be there. I
have brought this gentleman to prove it."

Look here, sir ! " exclaimed M. Dubarri,
taking the Doctor confidentially by the arm.
*' He accuses you of running away with my
fiancee.

The Doctor started, glanced in amazement
at Mr. Valentine Gaunt, and then a remarkable
change came over him. A heavy load
seemed to have fallen from his shoulders.
He stood erect, firm, defiant — altogether a
different man.

"He is in error, this crafty fellow," continued
M. Dubarri. " I shall swear it."
Stepping back, he looked the Doctor critically

up and down, then walked a little to one side
and surveyed him again, and finally returned
to his old position to say : *' I do swear it.
This gentleman here is something like the
reverend diable, but that is all. Mr. Valentine
Gaunt, you have been too quick, my
friend ; you must draw in your horns."

What is your name, sir ? " asked the
Doctor.

[i Dubarri or Dubois, which you will."

A bitter smile crossed the Doctor's face.
These words seemed to explain something
that had hitherto puzzled him. When he
spoke next, it was with the decision that used
to be habitual with him.

So you accuse me," he said to the heavy-bowed
man opposite, " of having eloped
with M. Dubarri'sj^«?z{?^'^ / "

You yourself admitted the fact," replied
Mr. Valentine Gaunt, staring in bewilderment.


A more wicked falsehood never was
uttered," cried the Doctor, with a triumphant
sparkle in his eyes, as he brought his fist

down upon the table ; " and, by Jupiter, I'll
prosecute you as sure as I'm the Rector of
this parish. I dismiss you on the spot. A
month's salary instead of notice, and off you
go — out of my sight. Let me never set eyes
on you again."

Here was a surprising change in the
position. Even Sterne, who had been instrumental
in bringing it about, could scarcely
credit his senses. The blow struck Mr.
Yalentine Gaunt with the force of a sledgehammer.
When he had partly recovered
himself, he produced a paper from his pocket
and handed it to M. Dubarri.

Who is that ? " he asked.

The Eev. C. C. Copingstone — something
like the gentleman here."

That is the man," triumphantly cried Mr.
Yalentine Gaunt, pointing to the Doctor.

The sketch was handed to the Doctor.
Seeing Plantagenet's initials in the corner, he
frankly admitted that it must have been
intended as a representation of himself. M.
Dubarri then examined it more carefully, by

the aid of his pince-nez ; and eventually
came to the conclusion that he had made a
mistake.

And you are the Rev. C. C. Coping-stone
? " he asked.

I am," replied the Doctor.

It is strange." After polishing the
wrinkles in his forehead, he began to fumble
in his pockets, and presently brought out a
slip of paper. '* Is that like your signature ? "

Greatly." And, with a spiteful look at
his enemy, he ripped the deed into two pieces
and gave it to M. Dubarri for comparison.

The two signatures were almost exactly
alike. Satisfied of this fact, M. Dubarri could
only blink first at the Doctor and then at
Sterne, who was quite content to let the other
three work out the conclusion in their own
way.

Meanwhile Mr. Valentine Gaunt was trying
to introduce some method into the
general confusion. He had turned the Doctor
into a mere puppet, performing to his music
and obedient to his will; but, strangely

enough, it now appeared that he had all the
time been pulling the wrong wire, though it
lead acted without a single hitch until the
discovery of the mistake. It was really a
most singular thing — a very alarming thing,
unless he could get hold of the right wire, for
it was clear that one did exist.

Is it because of his innocence," he asked,
in the hope of driving the Doctor to commit
himself, " that Dr. Copingstone hides himself
in a secluded village, and dreads the publicity
of advertisements, of the ' Clerical Directory,'
and even of sketches and photographs ? "

The Doctor smiled contemptuously. "There
is no need," he said, " to notice the insinuations
of a man who came to me under false
pretences — with lying testimonials."

I admit it," said Mr. Yalentine Gaunt,
after a brief hesitation. " And, pray, whose
were the lies ? Not mine, but this gentleman's
" — fluttering his hand at the mystified
little Frenchman — "this gentleman's, if you
please, upon whose word you place such
implicit reliance."

Would I lie against my own interests ? "
demanded M. Dubarri, with an angry gesture.
*^ Sapristi, no. I am frank, you see. "What
does he mean by saying I lied in any testis
menials ? I know nothing about them, I do
assure you. But if this gentleman had
really run away with mj Jiancee, I would be
to him a gadfly."

Whose stings could only be cured with
golden ointment," sneered Mr. Valentine
Gaunt. And now, perhaps for the first time
in his life, he flung caution to the winds.
Only a bold manoeuvre could save him. If
he could prove the Doctor's guilt, or at least
render it probable, he would detach Sterne
from his alliance and get rid of him for ever.
In order to achieve this double victory, it was
necessary to state frankly what had happened ;
and the worse he made himself out to be, the
more likely he was to succeed. As regards
a prosecution, he had nothing to fear; the
Doctor's objection to that kind of publicity
would hold him free there. So, turning to the
clergyman on his left, he spoke as follows : —

*' Though I know that you hate me, Mr.
Sterne, I believe you to be a thoroughly just
and conscientious man. I feel sure, then,
you will hear me without prejudice, and if
you consider my case proved, you won't
hesitate to say so. First of all, I am convinced
that M. Dubarri's object in contradicting
his previous statements is to obtain
money. That he is not averse from bribery,
you will see, when I tell you that he has
been in the habit of selling me advance-sheets
of the French papers set by the Civil Service
Examiners. This statement will doubtless
put me in a bad light ; but remember, if my
character is black, it doesn't prove M.
Dubarri's or Dr. Copingstone's to be white.
Moreover, while I have shown you that M.
Dubarri's word is not to be relied upon, I
don't ask you to believe mine until you have
verified it.

When I first arrived here, my sole introduction
consisted of a couple of testimonials,
one signed by F. Dubarri, and the other by
F. Dubois. Both these individuals are united

in this person here. The signatures were
genuine ; the testimonials were written
by myself. Dr. Copingstone read the first
without comment, but as soon as he saw the
second, his face changed colour and he began
to tremble. Astonished as I was at his
extraordinary agitation, I resolved, if possible,
to profit by it. So I said, watching closely the
effect of each shot, that M. Dubarri was one
of my greatest friends ; that I was thoroughly
acquainted with his history ; that he had
strongly advised me to come to Puddleton ;
and finally, when I felt it safe to proceed,
that he had assured me of the appointment
if only I mentioned his name. I declare to
you, Mr. Sterne, there was not a single word of
truth in those statements. The testimonial
having been written by myself, I saw that
the name alone had done it all, and acted
accordingly. None but a fool neglects his
opportunity, and I had waited for mine long
enough. However, the fact that my assertions
were false only strengthens the case
against the Doctor, for I am thus cleared of

any possible charge of conspiracy with M.
Dubarri, of whose secret I was then wholly
ignorant."

The Doctor's face was a curious study. Atone
time flushed with triumph, at another
angry, at another scornful, he had gradually
assumed a look of intense interest which
bordered closely upon admiration for this
man, who, in the desperate hope of retrieving
a lost game, did not shrink from blackening
his own character in the presence of such a
moral martinet as Leonard Sterne. It was
a grand coup, in the doctor's eyes ; and he
could thoroughly appreciate it from the secure
niche in which he suddenly found himself.
Even the fact that he had been duped by his
own suspiciousness was powerless to hurt
him now that he had defeated his foe. He
could afford to be generous — to admire one
who had been so adroit in taking advantage
of his mistake. While others were speaking,
the Doctor was usually most impatient and
restless, but he appeared absorbed in the
words that Mr. Yalentine Gaunt was uttering
in his harsh tones and tedious manner.

Yery different was M. Dubarri's attitude.
While he flared up at any slighting allusion
to himself his expression at all other times
was a mixture of wonderment and contempt.
Wonderment that a man could be such a fool
as to disparage himself; contempt for the
fool.

Sterne also wondered. But while his eyes
were drawn towards the speaker by an
irresistible fascination, his features were
wrought into an expression of unutterable
disgust, and he shrank away as if from contamination.
He had the appearance of a
man looking and listening against his own
will.

It was a strange scene in the luxuriously
furnished study, with the lamplight falling
softly upon the tiled grate, the carved oak
chairs, the red morocco upholstery, the handsome
ornaments, and the paintings which
covered the walls, except the one behind Mr.
Yalentine Gaunt, where the glass-covered
bookcase stood. The four around the writing-table
might have been gamblers, so absorbed

were they in the business of the moment. If
any of them stirred, his footfall was inaudible
upon the mossy carpet. The breeze rustling
through the curtains of the windows was the
only sound, except the rasping voice of Mr.
Valentine Gaunt.

As a reasoning being," he proceeded, " I
ascribed certain results to certain causes, and
thence I arrived at other results which are
quite beyond question. Consequently, they
prove my fundamental assumption to have
been correct. And it was simply this : that
Dr. Copingstone had committed some disgraceful
act, known to M. Dubarri. No other
conclusion was possible under the circumstances
I have described. Moreover, it was
justified by subsequent events, for it put into
my hands a weapon that, as you know, Mr.
Sterne, I have used with tolerable success.
The Doctor engaged me with precipitation
and, I may add, fright ; he evidently wished
to purchase the friendship of one who might
become a dangerous enemy ; and I started
upon work which was quite new to me. This

YOL. III. K

I frankly admit now, for two reasons : firstly,
because my stay here will depend upon
whether or not I substantiate my charge ;
and, secondly, because I should not be so
foolish as to assert what M. Dubarri could
disprove. My past life concerns myself alone,
but I may say that shortly before I came
here I was an actor. This will account for
my acquaintance with M. Dubarri, who has
long hung on the outskirts of the stage and
of pretty nearly everything else. However,
during my stay in Puddleton, I have worked
hard and, I flatter myself, not unsuccessfully.
If I must leave here, I don't think I shall go

alone. Many of the pupils But that is

beside the matter.

'' As my future depended upon the Doctor,
to strengthen my hold over him became my
duty to myself, which, I believe, takes precedence
of duty towards my neighbour. Thus
I was very anxious to get a peep at the
skeleton in the Rectory cupboard. Though
aware of its existence, I had no certain knowledge
of its nature ; and I felt that the discovery

of my ignorance would be followed
by my overthrow. As you see, the result
has proved my fears to have been well
founded, I kept my eyes open in Puddleton,
but it was in London that I expected to gain
definite information. M. Dubarri is a child
compared with the Doctor ; it is the easiest
thing in the world to get him to talk."

M. Dubarri blinked indignantly at this
base accusation, and was about to protest.
But Mr. Valentine Gaunt loftily waved him
back and resumed.

However, I confess that I experienced
some difficulty with him in this instance. It
was the accidental discovery of the signature
he has just showed you that first helped me.
He then told me the writer had done him a
grievous injury ; what it was, he resolutely
declined to say. Of course, his reticence was
due to the fact that he wished to use his
secret as a means to extort money; and when
he parted with it, it would become comparatively
valueless."

I deny that," shouted M. Dubarri, with a

fierce dart of the hand. " You defame me,
you rascal, you. It is you who would do
that, and not me. Gentlemen, he speaks
falsely, I do assure you. Would I do such
a thing ? " He drew himself erect, and
by modestly depressing his eyes drew their
attention to the Ribbon of the Legion of
Honour in his button-hole.

The point is not worth disputing, Mr.
Sterne," croaked Mr. Valentine Gaunt, to the
intense indignation of M. Dubarri and the
amusement of the Doctor. " It is merely my
theory, so you may take it for what it is
worth. Let us return to facts. Seeing that
M. Dubarri could not be induced by gentle
means to part with his secret, I determined
to try intimidation. To do this, I was most
advantageously situated. I have already
alluded to his simple method of adding to
his income by selling advance-sheets of the
French papers. Well, I insinuated that the
Civil Service Commissioners might not regard
his conduct with approbation ; that it behoved
me, as a good citizen, not to keep the

knowledge to myself; but that if I was possessed
of the information that he guarded
with such jealous care, I might be able to
look at my duty towards the community
from a different standpoint. He was considerably
frightened. At length he requested
time to think the matter over, and
to this I was incautious enough to agree.
After my departure he hastily changed his
address, and on my next visit to London I
arrived at an empty house. However, I had
little difficulty in finding him again. As a
matter of fact, it was an intimation that he
intended leaving me in the lurch that took
me to town."

"That rascal Jacques," groaned M. Du-barr.


Exactly," said Mr. Valentine Gaunt, with
a self-satisfied smile. " I had discovered — no
matter how — that he paid this man to spy
upon my movements, and, having a natural
dislike to being out-manoeuvred, I had turned
the tables upon the cunning trickster. In
short, I had taken Jacques into my service.

Curiously enough, he had been employed to
hunt for Dr. Copingstone, and had actually
met him once face to face ; but, knowing
only the name and not the appearance of the
man he had to seek, didn't recognize him. It
was only a short time ago that I ascertained
this. Since then, for fear of accidents, I have
taken care that he should not again set foot
in the village. Though it is sometimes necessary
to employ tools, experience has taught
me never to trust them. It is my method " —
alluding to the Whittle incident, he glanced
significantly at the Doctor — " to use them
only when they can work in the dark.

It was Jacques who discovered M. Du-barr's
hiding-place. The cunning old fellow
had secreted himself in one of the most
crowded thoroughfares in London. Of course,
I lost no time in calling upon him ; and his
face, when he saw me, was the most comical
sight in the world. If I had doubted my
power over him, I could have done so no
longer ; and in a very short time I had torn
from him his precious secret. It was this :

that the Rev. Claude Cyprian Copingstone,
now Doctor of Divinity and Rector of
Puddleton, had eloped with his fiancee, Miss
Lucy Merle by name. At last, my case
against the Doctor was complete. I was
possessed of a weapon that would make me
irresistible. I don't think I can be accused
of ever having wasted the good things of
fortune — certainly not in this case. By its
means I have this evening obtained the
Doctor's signature to the document which he
has just torn up. It is nothing more or less
than a deed of partnership.

Now, I speak solemnly, and in the
presence of those who can contradict me if I
have erred. And I ask you, Mr. Sterne, are
my statements compatible with the Doctor's
innocence ? Do they not fully prove my
charge ? "

When he finished, the mask of indifference
was completely laid aside ; he looked at
Sterne with unmistakable anxiety. So did
the Doctor. M. Dubarri was curious, but less
interested. Indeed, the silence was so welcome

that lie relieved this feelings with a deep
sigh.

You have confessed yourself to be such
an atrocious scoundrel," said Sterne, looking
full at Mr. Valentine Gaunt, who glared back
like an angry panther, " that I refuse even to
consider your statements. Nor is it necessary
for me to do so. Dr. Copingstone is my
friend."

The Doctor's eyes were suddenly dimmed.
A quiver ran through his whole frame. He
stretched out his hand and grasped Sterne's.
His lips moved, but not a sound came from
them.

And I, sir," said M. Dubarri, with a view
to the possible loaves and fishes, for which
starvation had sharpened his appetite, "am
come from London to sustain you. You are
innocent. Have I not sworn it ? Shall I
swear again ? You are an honest man, I am
sure. As for this rascal — prenez garde ! " And
he threw himself into an attitude of defence.

But Mr. Yalentine Gaunt, who certainly
did look desperate enough for anything,

strode past him to the double painting, " The
Old Adam," hanging on the wall behind.
He began to turn it round. But before he
had succeeded in doing so, the cord slipped
off the nail and the picture tumbled into
NelHe's basket-chair, which was standing at
the corner of the bow-window.

Fortunately no harm was done. The
portrait that usually faced the wall, was now
exposed to view, the lamplight falling full
upon it. It could not have been better
placed for all four.

Mr. Valentine Gaunt, however, was not
looking at it. A sudden change had come
over him. His eyes had a glassy stare. If
he had been a figure cast in bronze, he could
not have been more motionless.

His strange attitude was completely lost
upon M. Dubarri, whose attention was
riveted upon the portrait. He hooked his
pince-nez upon his little snub nose and
stooped to examine it. The next moment
he spun round like a top and fiercely confronted
the Doctor.

Then you are the reverend diable'' he
cried, forgetting his promise to Sterne in his
excitement. " How came you by that ?
That is him, I am sure. Have you changed
yourself so that I may not know you ? "

Many years ago," replied the Doctor, after
a pause, " I bought that picture at an auction.
It is very like me, is it not ? "

M. Dubarri looked incredulous. Mr. Valentine
Gaunt was still in the same attitude,
apparently unconscious of what was going on
around him.

Dr. Livingstone," said Sterne sadly, prepared
to sacrifice his friend sooner than the
truth, " you led me to suppose that it was a
portrait of yourself"

Did I, Sterne ! " said the Doctor wearily.

'' Ah ! " cried M. Dubarri. " Then you did
run away with vas fiancee''

"Francois, tu as raison," said a woman's
voice, which fixed everybody as he stood.

The colour fled from Leonard Sterne's
face, and he leaned heavily on the table.

CHAPTER Iii.

CONFUSION.

The Doctor had not the faintest notion of the
meaning of the words that had come through
the open window. If they had been Chinese,
they would have been just as intelligible to
him. After looking perplexity at each of
his companions in turn and getting no
response, he supposed them to have proceeded
from a beggar, as on a previous occasion ; and
indeed on many others, Puddleton being a
sort of junction for innumerable workhouses.
This conclusion was scarcely arrived at before
it was acted upon. Getting ready his whole
stock of French, he advanced to the curtains
and hurled it at the speaker's head.

Yenez ! " he thundered. " Yenez tout-despite

! " With which, he slammed down
the window and returned to his place,
nodding to M. Dubarri as much as to say :
"You see what an able French scholar I am!"

The words aroused Mr. Valentine Gaunt
from his singular trance. He bent upon
Sterne a look of diabolical hatred ; then
turned to the Doctor and said hastily —

'' If you're going to fill the room with
strangers, I'm off. The matter must be
threshed out in private."

No one will intrude here," said the
Doctor haughtily.

Indeed ! You told that woman to come
in, and she is coming." And he moved
towards the door.

Stop a bit," said the Doctor, surprised at
this statement, yet quick to perceive the
other's agitation. " Let's see the end of
this."

Sterne, still very white, had already placed
himself before the door.

Is Mr. Gaunt afraid of facing this
woman ? " he asked.

^' I fear Mr. Sterne's Columbine as little as
the wooden sword of his Pantaloon."

Theatrical metaphors," said Sterne, talking
against time, " are not in my line. Be
good enough to explain."

Let me pass, sir."

'' I dare you to stay."

Be it so," said Mr. Valentine Gaunt,
accepting the inevitable with an assumption
of carelessness, for a footstep had already
sounded in the hall.

He returned to his place, folded his arms,
and glared round defiantly.

All this time M. Dubarri had been doing
nothing but blink. So many expressions
were chasing one another across his comical
face that he resembled a man dreaming of a
rapid succession of bewildering scenes. But
his instinctive politeness coming to the
rescue, he hurried to the door and opened it :
not a moment too soon, for he surprised the
new-comer in the act of turning the handle.

She was a plump, handsome woman, with
very pale blue eyes and very light flaxen

hair. Her age might have been anything
from forty to sixty ; it might be stated with
more accuracy had she been taken unawares
in the early morning. Though she looked
both delighted and astonished, her face hinted
at the possession of a temper. She had laid
her cloak upon the hall-table, and was dressed
in black silk, with a large display of jewelry.

M. Dubarri bowed, and then his eyes
sought hers.

'I Lucy Merle ! " he exclaimed.

'' No, Francois," she replied, giving him
her hand. " Madame Farnienti."

"It is strange," he said, peering at her.

Without another word, he led her to the
basket-chair in the bow-window. Amid a
profound silence, he removed the fallen
picture and placed it on the floor. When
she sat down, he bowed again, and stationed
himself by her side, to wait for the explanation,
which evidently concerned the others as
well as himself.

In order to account for Madame Farnienti's

appearance upon the scene, it will be necessary
to take a brief glance at several incidents
that occurred during the vacation.

Yampiretti and Sir Kestrel Hawk had
come to loggerheads. The usurer clamoured
for his money, but neither smooth words nor
threats availed him, for the baronet held
stoutly to his intention of not paying a
penny. There seemed every chance of an
interesting lawsuit, when Yampiretti suddenly
showed the white feather — '' without
prejudice," of course. He expressed his willingness
to accept ten shillings in the pound,
which he could very well do, inasmuch as he
had charged interest at the rate of four hundred
per cent. He also requested the Doctor
to exert his influence with Sir Kestrel, on the
ground that an exposure of the pupils' extravagances
would infallibly damage Puddleton.
They were all interested, he said, in
hushing the matter up.

This impudent letter was handed to Sterne
to answer. He said merely that the Doctor
declined to interfere. Regarding this as conclusive,

lie was surprised on the evening of
his return from London to receive a still
more urgent letter addressed to himself. It
concluded with a remarkable paragraph, asking
him if he was the clergyman who had
called at Madame Farnienti's to inquire after
a Mr. Valentine Gaunt. A chance word
uttered by an unknown customer — Arnold —
had led her to think it might be so ; in which
case it might benefit both if he were to write
to her.

This looked very like an attempt at
bribery ; and as such Sterne laid it aside.
At the same time he saw no reason why he
should not profit by it on other grounds, and
the 'mutual benefit" clause gave him the
necessary foothold. Accordingly, when he
went to London next day to see Arnold, he
first of all called upon Madame Farnienti.

Yampiretti, it appeared, was in reality a
financial agent. It was not his own money
that he lent, for he had but little. He merely
acted as a medium between borrower and
lender, guaranteeing the loan and pocketing

a huge commission for doing so. To those
who supplied the funds he usually returned
somewhere about twenty-five per cent. ; from
the borrowers he seldom exacted less than
two hundred per cent., thus insuring himself
pretty handsomely against possible losses.
In certain exceptional cases, however, he
entered into a sort of temporary partnership
with the lender, who then undertook part of
the risk, and was, when necessary, consulted
about the details. Sparrow Hawk's was a
case in point, Madame Farnienti having been
the actual lender. Hence she had read
Sterne's letter and dictated the concluding
paragraph in the reply.

He had two interviews with her, one before
and the other after his visit to Arnold.

In consequence she travelled to Stilbury
by the train preceding that which carried
M. Dubarri. When he arrived at the Hut
she had been there for more than an hour.
In order to prevent the possibility of collusion,
they were neither allowed to meet nor
informed of one another's presence ; and after

VOL. in. L

he had been taken to one of the study
windows, she was escorted by a servant to
the other, which faced the front, and so was
out of sight of the lawn-tennis ground.

It will be seen, then, that Leonard Sterne
had turned his theatre-going to some account.
But if his arrangements promised well for
dramatic effect, he had proved a very inefficient
stage-manager, not a single scene
having been acted as it was rehearsed. The
unexpected, as often happens upon the stage
of real life, had made a sad hash of all the
prepared parts, and the performers, carried
away by their feelings, had got completely
out of hand.

In brief, Sterne, who had worked hard to
save his friend, was now confronted with the
dreadful prospect of having accomplished his
ruin.

The vague hope aroused by Mr. Valentine
G-aunt's attempt to escape had braced him up
for the moment ; but how could he hold to it
in the teeth of Madame Farnienti's words,
confirming M. Dubarri's accusation ! He was

positively haggard, this long-faced clergyman
whose trembling hands were resting upon the
writing-table. He looked and listened hungrily
for a scrap of hope.

Who is this lady ? " demanded the Doctor,
in such a puzzled way that Sterne's heart
gave a wild bound.

My iormQv fiancee'' replied M. Dubarri.

Indeed — indeed ! Her arrival is very
opportune. I am supposed to have eloped
with her from Hast "

Pray, Dr. Copingstone," said Mr. Valentine
Gaunt, with a malicious smile, " finish
your sentence. No ! Then let me call Mr.
Sterne's attention to the fact that Hastings
has never been mentioned until now. In
other words, a tacit admission of the truth is
coupled with an attempt to disprove it." He
had undoubtedly fallen into a nasty pit himself,
but if he could get the Doctor for a
companion, it would be easy to scramble out
on his shoulders.

If the Doctor looked vexed, he said haughtily
enough, " All in good time, sir. I must be

allowed to conduct my case as I please. Oblige
me by remembering that you are here only on
sufferance. Madame Farnienti," he added,
turning towards her, "you have heard what
has been said. Is it true ? "

The four men were gazing at her with
embarrassing earnestness, but she answered
with perfect self-possession —

Certainly not."

Sterne's face changed from white to red.
M. Dubarri blinked with alarming rapidity.
Mr. Valentine Gaunt ground his teeth and
stared.

Why, she contradicts herself within five
minutes," he said, with a hoarse laugh.

She took no notice of his words — never
even looked at him. Since entering the
room, she had kept her eyes steadily averted
from his face.

Have you ever seen me before ? " asked
the Doctor.

Never."

Is it true that you — you ran away from
M. Dubarri ? "

'' Without doubt," cried M. Dubarri,
springing into activity. '' One dark morning,
I dress myself and go downstairs to look for
madame here " — with a grand bow — " who
was then Lucy Merle. Sapristi ! she is gone.
From that moment to this I have seen her
never — never once, I do assure you. I run
here — I run there — I search everywhere — but
it is useless. She has vanished."

The Doctor did not appear to hear this
speech, his eyes being bent upon the ground
as if he was absorbed in thought. When he
spoke, it was with remarkable hesitation.
His tones were low, and nearly every word
was followed by a pause.

When you left M. Dubarri," he said,
glancing furtively at Madame Farnienti, 'you
please excuse the question — you went with
or to somebody, I suppose. Did he in anyway
resemble me ? "

Not in the least. Dr. Livingstone."

The Doctor staggered, pressing his hand
against his side. He looked thoroughly
dazed, and yet there was in his face a strange

delIo:lit at something: he could not understand.
It was like sunlight struggling to break
through a heavy bank of clouds.

Not one of the five could comprehend the
situation. But M. Dubarri thought he did ;
indeed, he had made up his mind many years
ago. And he was not going to stand anymore
of this nonsense.

^' Permit me ! " he cried, with a swift
movement of the hand, such as boys sometimes
use when they wish to catch their master's
eye " Permit me ! I would speak. My
opinion should go for something, I think. I
am not a fool. Have I not eyes to see ?
Ah ! you look at my pince-nez. They are
for my journal, I do assure you. I can see
perfectly. I know what is like and what is
unlike. In consequence, I shall not be
deceived easily. As for madame here, her
sight is good also, I make no doubt ; but — I
say it with all respect — she is in error. The
rascal " — he shook his fist at the Doctor —
who ran away with madame, was he not
like you ? Parbleu ! I should not know the

difference in the half-light. I do not flatter
3' ou, but I speak the truth. It does not flatter
often, I think."

Before the Doctor could reply, Sterne had
put his finger in the pie.

'' I understood you to say at the window,"
he observed, looking very anxiously at
Madame Farnienti, 'that Dr. Copingstoiie
was your companion." The Doctor started at
this translation of her words and gazed with
the deepest reproach at his friend. " At least,
you confirmed M. Dubarri's statement to that
effect. You now say there is no resemblance
between them. Will you kindly explain ? "

There are the two men face to face," she
cried, pointing at the Doctor and Mr. Valentine
Gaunt, at whom she now. looked for the
first time. And what an angry, malicious,
spiteful look it was, turned upon him so suddenly
that he shrank before it ! " Coward ! "
she hurled at him. " Oh, how I hate him !
Gentlemen, you may judge for yourselves
whether there is much likeness between the
two."

Had a bomb fallen into the room, it could not
have produced a more startling effect. Sterne
and the Doctor were too astounded to speak.
Even M. Dubarri's volubility had quite deserted
him. He could only ejaculate a long-drawn
—

Mais, madame ! "

Mr. Yalentine Gaunt was the first to break
the silence that ensued. By a strong effort
he had regained his composure, and with it
his stealthy look, which suggested the idea
that he had not yet come to the end of his
resources.

Then," he said, with an odious smile,
Madame Farnienti accuses me, and not the
Doctor, of having eloped with her."

"What I say I can prove," she returned
scornfully. '' When I was standing at the
window, I could see only part of the room.
Dr. Copingstone was out of sight. But I
saw you staring at me as if I were a ghost,
and T thought M. Dubarri was accusing you,
which would have been true."

'' Bosh ! "

Her eyes flashed fire at him.

Listen to me, gentlemen," she said.
Before my engagement to M. Dubarri, I
was engaged to this man who calls himself
Valentine Grant. His real name is Valentine.
I was a foolish young woman in those
days, and though all sorts of things were
told me about him, I refused to believe
them. He seemed to be fond of me, and
with that I was satisfied. I knew very
little about him except that he was poor,
but I liked him all the better for that
reason, for I was proud and pleased that I,
who had been so useless, should be able to
help him. By degrees, I lent him all the
money my father had left me. When it was
all gone, I looked out for something to do,
and, with his approval, accepted the post of
companion to Mrs. Copingstone, and, after
her death, of housekeeper to her husband. I
suppose the money I sent him from Hastings
was not enough for his selfish extravagance.
At any rate, I received a letter from him,
saying that we were too poor ever to think

of marriage and breaking off our engagement."



She paused for a moment, which was filled
up with a muttered " Scoundrel ! " from M.
Dabarri. Mr. Valentine Gaunt took no
notice of the epithet. While attending to
the main points of her statement, he was
evidently thinking out his course of action.
The Doctor and Sterne, on the other hand,
were hanging on every word she uttered.

'' I'm a business woman now," she resumed,
'' so ril spare you any allusion to my feelings.
I was grossly deceived, and that is
enough. Then came M. Dubarri with his
polite ways and cheerful good-nature. He
saw I was in trouble, and was exceedingly
kind to me ; and as I had spent a couple of
years in Paris and could speak French fairly
well, this was another link between us. In
the end, he asked me to be his wife, and I
consented, partly because I wished to forget
my past life. I had been unselfish enough
before, and now I suppose I rushed to the
other extreme.

But several montis later, I received
another letter from that man " — she pointed,
without looking, at Mr. Yalentine Gaunt —
imploring my forgiveness and saying he
could not live without me. He told me he
had unexpectedly been left a fortune, and
his first proceeding was to ask me to share it
with him. Would I go and be married to
him at once ? ' Meanwhile,' added he, ' I
have already bought some of the furniture
for our house ' — ' our house : ' how well I remember
the words ! — but the expenses had
made such a drain upon his ready cash that
he would be glad if I would send him what
money I had. I believed him ; yes, I believed
him, as thoroughly as if 1 had never
been deceived. You may wonder that I
could have been such a fool. Looking back, I
sometimes wonder myself. But, alas ! there
is no bottom to a woman's folly when she
cares about a man, be he never such a rogue.

The result of the letter was, that I resolved
to follow my own inclinations and
desert M. Dubarri ; for which, as you will

see, I was severely punished. I changed
nearly all tiny money into notes, and, as requested,
sent them off by post. Then I
packed up my things, got them quietly out
of the house, and took the train for London.

'' Observe, I went alone ; and I went to
Mr. Valentine Gaunt, as he calls himself. It
was not until the other day that I heard of
Mr. Copings tone's strange disappearance on
the same night. If he travelled by the same
train, I certainly never saw him, and I can
give no explanation of his conduct, except
that he was a very odd man."

Est-il possible ? " cried M. Dubarri, rubbing
hard at his wrinkled forehead.

When I arrived in London, I found that
my supposed lover had left me in the lurch.
Doubtless you will say that it served me
right, but it was a cruel blow and a heartless
robbery. He had been living in dingy
lodgings ; he had gone away without paying
the bill and with my money ; what he had
told me was nothing but a pack of lies.
From that moment I hated him. How I

managed alone in London, without a character
and with only a few pounds ; how I
was fortunate enough to get a situation with
M. Farnienti, whom I afterwards married ;
how he died a few years ago, leaving me in
comfortable circumstances — all this I have no
need to trouble you with. My sole business
here is to denounce that robber."

In her excitement she rose to her feet and
pointed at him. A handsome woman she
looked, with her flaxen hair, her comely face
glowing with anger, her pale blue eyes flashing
scornfully, and the diamonds on her outstretched
hand and the jewelry on the black
silk dress kindling in the lamplight.

M. Dubarri gazed at her with admiration.

Forgive me, madame," he said. " I have
wronged you for eighteen years."

She softened in a moment.

'' Nay," she said gently, " it is I who have
wronged you."

Then let us forgive one another."

She extended her hand and he raised it to
his lips, whereupon a sudden faintness seized

upon her. She sat down, with tears in her
eyes.

The Doctor also had seated himself at the
writing-table, and his hand was fumbling in
one of the drawers. Mr. Valentine Gaunt
recognized the symptoms. The time had
come for him to play his last card.

A likely story ! " he sneered. "Of course,
you don't believe a word of it. Dr. Coping-stone
? "

The Doctor made no reply. He could not
trust himself to speak just yet.

'' M. Dubarri accuses you," proceeded Mr.
Valentine Gaunt, watching closely with
fluttering hand, as if he were striving to
regain his old mesmeric influence, "of having
eloped with Madame Farnienti, while she
accuses me of having done the same, at the
same time and place. The fact speaks for
itself; it needs no comment of mine. It is
obvious that the statements of this well-matched
couple are due to a wish to make
money out of somebody, no matter whom. I
would suggest to them that, if their future

comedies are to stand any chance of success,
they should be rehearsed in private before
being produced in public. But to you, Dr.
Copingstone, I have a duty to perform.
Though it is my method to examine everything
carefully, I frankly admit that I have
been misled in your case by M, Dubarri's
falsehood. I am now convinced that the
charge against you was baseless ; and any
reparation • "

Go ! " roared the Doctor, flinging across
the table a cheque that he had just filled in.
"Go! Get out of my sight! In another
moment I shan't be responsible for my
actions."

Mr. Yalentine Gaunt picked up the cheque
in silence, and, to the general surprise,
walked to the door. But when he reached
it, he turned to say —

My method is sound, but I see now that
I made one mistake. If I had separated M.
Dubarri and Arnold before striking my final
blow, I must have been successful. That
little flaw, the consequence of which it was

impossible for me to foresee, has saved you.
However, I bear you no malice, Dr. Coping-stone
; nor you, Mr. Sterne, though you
alone prevented my winning. I wish you
all good evening."

The door opened and he was gone, leaving
the others as much astonished as at anything
that had taken place.

As usual, however, there was a good deal
of method in his calm demeanour. He wished
to hide his dread of a gaol, which he felt
certain was the ultimate aim of Madame
Farnienti's vengeance. If he appeared not
to have any apprehensions on the subject, she
would not trouble herself until the morning,
by which time he would have placed a safe
distance between himself and Puddleton. He
had a fat cheque in his pocket and a handsome
balance lying at his London bankers', so
that altogether he had no reason to be dissatisfied
with the result of his labours. Of
course, it was most vexatious that the grand
prize for which he had worked so steadily
should have been snatched away just as it

was within reach ; but it was no use crying-over
spilt milk. The strangest part of the
whole affair was that for two years he had
had the Doctor under his thumb, and now he
was going away without knowing how he
had done it ! He had not discovered the
right wire, after all.

Mr. Valentine Graunt no sooner found himself
outside the Rectory gate than, dropping
his deliberate manner, he shot away down
the silent, gloomy street as fast as his legs
could carry him. He stopped at the Mark's
and ordered a fly from Mr. Smirkee, who
looked vastly surprised at this late journey.
Then he hastened off to the Hive and packed
his portmanteaus. In less than an hour, he
was rattling along the road to Stilbury.

VOL. 111.

CHAPTER VIII.

AFTER THE BATTLE.

The morning opened like a rosebud: fresh,
sweet, smiling, and beautiful. At first, when
the heavy dew of the previous evening was
rising, a pinkish mist hung over the landscape,
but it speedily vanished. And then
the air was brimful of sunlight flowing down
the hills into every nook and cranny, and the
larks poured their songs from the bluest of
skies. The green foliage of summer was
mingled with the brown tints of autumn ;
the grassy slopes of Camelback were studded
with sheep, as motionless as white stones by
the side of the murmuring Splashwater ; overall
there brooded an air of repose, recalling
bygone times.

In the village street, however, there was a
great commotion about nine o'clock. Though
many of the men and women had gone to
their work in the fields, there were quite
enough left behind to raise a very audible
cackle. Here they gathered around a cottage
door, a mere slit in a curtain of Virginian
creeper, and there clustered at a garden-gate
where some smock-frocked old fellow leaned
upon his hoe. One topic was upon every
tongue. Although the strictest secrecy had
been enjoined upon Higgins and Martha, it
had leaked out that two strangers had arrived
at the Hut, that they had entered the Rectory
after dusk, and that there had been a row of
some sort, ending in the sudden departure of
Mr. Valentine Gaunt. It was shrewdly conjectured
that they would never see him again.
As he had forgotten to pay his bills for the
past quarter, the tradespeople were in a state
of frantic indignation. Gammon, standing
in the middle of the bridge, angrily declaimed
against the unrivalled villainy of the man to
whom he had yesterday tendered homage and

flattery, while Whittle, Smirkee and Joseph
Haply joined loudly in the denunciations
against the once popular favourite.

Shortly after breakfast, Mr. Pike brushed
his hat, placed his gloves and a spare handkerchief
inside, carefully balanced it upon his
bald head, and strutted out to interview
Sterne. At the gate he paused, according to
his habit, to take a preliminary survey of
the morning by turning his stiff, plump little
body to every point of the compass in turn.
It was easy to see that something unusual
had occurred, so he hurried out to inquire
into the matter. The news was poured into
his ears by a dozen voices at once, and his
face glowed as he listened. When he had
learnt all they could tell him, he continued
his walk to the Hut, and was shown into the
study, where he found the clergyman writing
as usual.

M. Dubarri, who was reading the newspaper
on the couch in the window, blinked
over his pince-nez at the visitor. He had no
idea that Mr. Pike lived in Puddleton. Hebe

and her family had dropped from the clouds,
so far as he could see.

Bravo, Mr. Sterne ! " said Mr. Pike
warmly. " So you have kicked the scoundrel
out of the place. I congratulate you — I do
indeed. And you here, M. Dubarri ! Goodness
gracious ! wonders never cease."

Ah, yes, it is strange," said M. Dubarri.
But I shake you by the hand, my friend."
And he made a wild dash at the lawyer.

How did you manage it, Mr. Sterne ? "
asked Mr. Pike, taking a cautious seat.

If I were offered a thousand pounds,"
said Sterne emphatically, " I wouldn't go
through another scene like that of last night.
The details I can't tell you without the
Doctor's permission ; but the result is that
the man is gone. That ought to be sufficient
for us."

It's a pity," observed Mr. Pike with
regret, " that the law can't get hold of him.
If he had only committed some crime, I
should be quite happy. The very thought of
a warrant for his apprehension warms my

blood. Now, if he had been guilty of arson
or manslaughter, or even burglary, it would
be some comfort ; but to let him go scot-free
well, it's a great nuisance. You see, he is
innocent in the eyes of the law "

Then," interrupted M. Dubarri, " the law
must be blind, I think."

But Sterne silenced him with a look. It
was Madame Farnienti's wish that her story
should be kept secret; indeed, when her
excitement was over, she chopped round with
astonishing rapidity and appeared almost
sorry for what she had done. She had spent
the night at the Hut; and this feeling,
instead of changing again, was only the more
pronounced in the morning. As for Mr.
Valentine Gaunt's dread of her following him
and casting him into prison, either he knew
nothing about a woman's nature or his
cowardice had overpowered such knowledge
as he possessed. No such thought ever
entered the head of her whom he had treated
so cruelly. His prosperity had rekindled the
old resentment against him, but it had died

out with his downfall, leaving behind only a
vague sense of dissatisfaction. Though she
had the chance of crushing him utterly, she
would never avail herself of it. And this
Sterne knew when he cast that significant
glance at the voluble old Frenchman.

But it's in Arnold that you are chiefly
interested," he said.

In Arnold's wife," corrected the lawyer.
'' We must try," said the clergyman gently,
to think of them as one."

You are right, Mr. Sterne." Under any
other circumstances, he would have resented
this mild rebuke from the High Church
curate ; and as it was, he coloured. At the
same time, he saw in the words the spirit of
compromise which is as essential to smoothness
in business transactions as it is to
matrimonial happiness. Hence he accepted
them without demur. " What arrangements
is the Doctor going to make ? "

He was too agitated last night to make
any. And I was too agitated to do more
than give the happiest sketch of what had

happened. There are many puzzling things
yet to be explained." In fact, Sterne was
almost as much in the dark as he had ever
been. " He assured me, however, of his
complete forgiveness for his erring son."

I'm sincerely glad to hear it."

There can be no doubt that he won't lose
any time in establishing Arnold in a respectable
profession."

He can afford to do it. His income can't
be less than fifteen thousand a year, and I
hear he is to have ten more pupils this term
than last. That will make a hundred and
twenty altogether. Why, 'tis a gold mine ! "

This was a "draw." Sterne, who could
have estimated the Doctor's income to a
penny, gazed steadily at the paper before
him. He had no intention of throwing out
even the smallest hint. As for M. Dubarri,
he looked positively startled at the idea of so
much wealth derived from tuition.

Well," continued Mr. Pike, satisfied that
he would gain no information in that quarter,
you have given me the best news I have

heard for many a long day. I must tell
Hebe at once — and her husband. I'll go
back to London by the one o'clock train."

'* That is good," said M. Dubarri. " I may
have the pleasure of travelling with you."

A desultory conversation followed, during
which Mr. Pike, exercising the privilege of a
shareholder, inquired about the prospects of
the Invaluable Chimney-pot Company. While
admitting that investors were absurdly slow
in coming forward for the hundred thousand
pounds he offered them, M. Dubarri said it
would undoubtedly be a grand success, and,
by way of proof, exhibited with great glee
his advertisement in the morning paper.

Regardez, messieurs ! " he exclaimed,
holding out the paper at arm's length, his
face beaming with delight.

Mr. Pike said nothing to damp the old
fellow's ardour, but, when he left, signified to
Sterne his wish for a few moments' private
conversation.

Will the Doctor do anything for M.
Dubarri ? " he asked in the hall.

'* In a hurried note that I got from him at
breakfast time," replied Sterne, "he requested
me to detain M. Dubarri until he could see
him. Now that Mr. Gaunt is gone, there is
no one to take French ; so I rather fancy the
Doctor would like M. Dubarri to do this and
to reside at the Hive."

A capital idea."

That's a matter of opinion."

''If it had t been for M. Dubarri, I don't
know what would have become of Arnold.
He certainly deserves well at the Doctor's
hands."

I don't think he'll have anything to
complain of, Mr. Pike," said Sterne coldly.
If he should be consulted about the proposed
arrangement, he would vote against it, for he
could not condone the offence of tampering
with examination papers.

Mr. Pike was much annoyed with the
strait-laced clergyman. To preach good-will
from the pulpit and practise forgiveness in
the parish, struck him as a glaring incongruity
all the more glaring because he felt particularly

benevolent. Uncharitable conduct
was a thing lie could not understand when
everything had gone well with himself. Ashe
walked towards the gate, he censured —
only in his own mind, of course — Sterne in
the strongest terms. Suddenly he made a
movement to get behind one of the stone
pillars of the gate, for only a few yards away,
lo ! there stood the Doctor.

It really was a very embarrassing position
to be placed in. The Doctor owed Mr. Pike
an apology — at any rate, Mr. Pike thought
he did, and having no wish to parade his
quarrel before the village, he was naturally
anxious to keep out of the Doctor's way until
that apology had been tendered. You see,
he wanted to avoid the painful necessity of
cutting the Doctor — of passing him by in his
own parish with a frigid stare. Such a proceeding
could not commend itself to his
churchwardens mind. Yet the worst part
of this awkward meeting was that it looked
something like what he had just been condemning
; though in point of fact, said Mr.

Pike, there was no resemblance between
them.

From the spot where he stood, he could
just see the Doctor's steeple hat above the
stone wall. He also heard that peculiar
gasping laugh which had been silent for so
many months. The idea that it was aimed
at him gave him quite a fright. He turned
to look at the house, and, oh horror ! there
were Mrs. Sterne and Madame Farnienti
watching him from the drawing-room window.
There was only one thing to be done. Mr.
Pike drew himself erect, opened the gate, and
pompously strutted out.

The Doctor was standing with a decrepit
old dame in a white cap, who was giving him
a minute description of her many ailments,
while he listened with an expression of the
deepest interest. His wonderful recuperative
powers had never been so manifest as on this
sunny morning ; the villagers declared that
he looked ten years younger.

At first he did not notice Mr. Pike, sneaking
away under the very transparent device

of abstraction, his eyes bent upon the ground.
Yv^hen he did, he hastily gave the old woman
some silver and started in pursuit, walking
as he alone could walk.

'' Mr. Pike ! " he cried after the pompous
little man in front.

Mr. Pike hesitated, and then walked on
again.

Mr. Pike ! "

This time he stopped, turned, and looked
up in surprise.

If you were my deadliest enemy," said
the Doctor with almost boyish warmth, " I
could bless you this morning. But in a
moment's irritation I was rude to you under

my own roof, and for that I must "

"• Don't say another word," cried Mr.
Pike, grasping the Doctor's hand and shaking
it heartily. " No, not another word, I insist.
We both had cause for irritation then, but
this is a day when all grievances should be
forgotten."

True — very true."

If that rascal Gaunt had only given the

law a chance of getting hold of him, nothing
would be wanting to my happiness. However,
I forgive him even that for the sake of
the young couple."

And you found them, I'm told ! I owe
you a debt of gratitude."

'' I was searching for my daughter."
But you found my son. How did he
look ? " he asked eagerly. " Was he well ?
Was he happy ? "

Never saw him looking better."
The Doctor's face clouded. He would have
preferred to hear that penitence had been
coupled with just a tinge of ill-health, due
partly to homesickness. There are times
when a few threads of sackcloth and a
sprinkling of ashes add a charm to ordinary
raiment. It was almost with a sigh that he
said —

Well, I'm quite sure Hebe will make him
a good wife, so he ought to be happy. It's
very unfortunate that I can't get away today,
but I have to be on the spot when the
new pupils arrive. However, I shall be off

to London by the first train tomorrow. It
will be much less awkward for the young
people if I go to see them than if they have
to come here to see me. Don't you think so'*

'' I do indeed," replied Mr. Pike, touched
by the Doctor's thoughtfulness. " What do
you propose Arnold should do ? "

The Doctor's lips tightened and his keen
little eyes twinkled knowingly.

It requires a good deal of consideration,"
he said.

They moved aside to get out of the way
of two flies which were approaching from
opposite directions.

There were several of the villagers standing
about, but not many, most of them having
gone indoors. No small amount of awe being
mingled with their liking for the Doctor,
they deemed it prudent to keep their curiosity
out of sight. Still, they were all on the alert,
for every other moment a head peeped from
an open door or window and quickly withdrew.
At the sound of wheels, there was a
general display of heads along the whole street.

The fly advancing along the Stilbury Road
presented a very dust-stained appearance.
The driver was nodding on the box ; the
horse was nodding between the shafts. They
had evidently been up most of the night and
travelled a long distance. They had, in fact,
conveyed Mr. Valentine Gaunt to the remote
town of Castlewood, where they had rested for
an hour or two. He had taken another
vehicle, and doubtless dodged about the
country until he could get a train.

"The driver woke up a bit as he approached
the Doctor. He rubbed his eyes, touched his
hat, and stared hard. When he had gone by,
he kept looking over his shoulder, and, in
passing the driver of the other fly, winked
slyly and pointed back with his whip. As it
was generally known that he had been driving
Mr. Valentine Gaunt, a wave of heads
greeted his coming. He had scarcely disappeared
into Mr. Smirkee's yard, when
Gammon and Joseph Haply scuttled out of
their houses and bolted after him.

The second fly stopped at the Hut, Its

object was to carry Madame Farnienti back
to S til bury.

It was a pleasant sight to see M. Dubarri
escorting Madame Farnienti to her conveyance,
while Sterne and his wife stood at the
door and the Doctor near the gate. There
was in his manner an old-fashioned courtesy,
a deferential admiration that no words could
reproduce. His eyes sparkled, his face
beamed, his body was bent towards the arm
on which she leaned, and his voice was
modulated. There was a strange gentleness
about him, so unlike his animation in men's
society. When she drove away, he gave her
one of his grandest bows, and smilingly she
waved her hand to him. And so they parted
for ever.

If M. Dubarri felt in a mood to sigh for
what might have been," the Doctor's voice
brought the ready smile to his wrinkled old
face, and the proposal afterwards made to him
in Sterne's study left no room fur any useless
regret. A large salary, with free residence
at the Hive, was offered him on condition of

YOL. III. N

his teaching French at Puddleton. Needless
to say, he accepted it with enthusiasm, and
several modest allusions to his own ability.
Forgetting that he had now become the
Doctor's subordinate, he continued to treat
him as an equal, and shook him so often by
the hand that his aspect grew a trifle stiff.
When M. Dubarri noticed the change, he
began to blink and wonder, and, unable to
make it out, dashed off to inspect his new
home.

He was perfectly enchanted with it. The
housekeeper, who showed him over the
rooms, he treated like a duchess ; he patted
the head of the youth in buttons ; he admired
the prospect from the windows ; he
insisted upon sitting in every arm-chair ; in
short, he behaved just like a child with a
new toy. It was a singular turn of the
wheel of fortune that had set M. Dubarri to
rule in the house where Mr. Valentine Gaunt
had lately ruled, but he was too delighted to
marvel.

Meanwhile a little scene was being enacted
in Sterne's study.

He was sitting at his writing-table ; while
the Doctor, who seldom sat down anywhere
except in his own room, was standing opposite,
with his back to the window. He had
displayed symptoms of impatience ; but as
soon as the door had closed upon M. Dubarri,
a great change came over him. These
changes were very frequent in his case, and
so sudden as to suggest the temporary collapse
of an overstrained will. His features
softened ; his eyes grew dim ; he looked
down at Sterne with strange tenderness. Fora
few moments there was silence. When he
spoke, his voice was thick and tremulous.

My best of friends," he said, " I have a
great favour to ask you. It will only be
adding one more to the many you have conferred
upon me. Tell me what I can do for
you. I can never do enough. But tell me
the one thing you desire most in the whole
world."

There is one thing I should like, my old
friend," replied Sterne, faltering a little.

The Doctor's face brightened. Knowing

Sterne well, he had feared that he would
decline to make any request.

If," he said earnestly, " it can be done, it
shall. I only trust it is something worth
granting."

I can promise you that."

Then let me hear it."

*' I would ask you to consent to the
marriage of Nellie and Philip."

Surprise, disappointment, wonder, and admiration,
all showed themselves in the old
man's face. After a pause, he said, in low,
quiet tones —

Sterne, I often think you forget your
own existence."

Sometimes," replied Sterne, with a sad
smile, " I have almost wished I could. But
that is over now."

Ah, well," sighed the Doctor, '^ I wish I
were more like you. After all you have
done and suffered, here you are providing for
everybody's happiness but your own. Philip
and Nellie — poor girl, she is not very well
this morning — shall be made happy, as you

wish. But I don't intend you, who have
laboured so hard for others, to go without
your reward."

I have my reward, old friend." There
was a glad smile on his face, which fully
attested the sincerity of his words. " But
there is another thing T would ask you.
Nellie is in trouble about the omission of her
name from the family Bible. Do you mind
telling me your story ? "

Still thinking of others to the exclusion of
self! The Doctor gazed at him with the
same mingled feelings as before ; then took
two or three hasty turns up and down the
room ; and finally returned to his former
position.

Yes, I'll tell you," he said. " If I had
been wise, I should have told you long ago.
Only yesterday I thought I never should get
rid of the consequences of what I had done ;
but at last — at last, I have shaken the dust
from my feet. I am a free man."

There was a knock at the door.

Instantly, without any apparent effort, he

assumed his quick, decisive, business-like
look.

In response to Sterne's " Come in," a
servant entered.

"Please, sir," lie said, '' Mr. Grammon is
downstairs, and be would like to see Dr.
Copingstone on most important business."

Show him up," said the Doctor, who was
in the habit of treating Sterne's house, and,
indeed, nearly every house in the village, as
his own.

Not another word was spoken until the
entrance of the red-faced butcher, in his blue
apron and with his steel hanging from the
girdle around his waist, or rather the middle
of his body. He crept in softly, for, like
many fat men, he was very light of foot.
After closing the door with the greatest
caution, he jammed himself into the corner
by it, bowed, and gazed with importance
over the hat which he held in both hands.
In this uncomfortable attitude he stood the
whole while.

Having a garrulous disposition, he was

requested by the Doctor to put what he had
to say into the fewest possible words, and to
rattle ahead.

It was a very scandalous story that Gammon
had to tell. He had heard it from the
driver of the fly that had just returned from
Castlewood. Mr. Yalentine Gaunt, it appeared,
had been unusually communicative
on the journey. According to him, an old
Frenchman and a foreign-looking woman had
come to Puddleton for the purpose of exposing
some shameful act committed by the
Doctor, who had attempted to bribe them to
secrecy. Mr. Yalentine Gaunt having opposed
the bribery, there had been a quarrel,
in consequence of which he had felt it his
duty to resign. By way of corroborating
this statement, he had added that the Doctor
was grossly deceiving everybody about
Arnold, who had not been near the University
for a whole year — who was, in fact,
gaining a disreputable livelihood on the
boards of a music-hall in London.

Briefly, it was a story in which truth and

falsehood were so cunningly mixed, that it
was next to impossible to disprove it, while
the presence of M. Dubarri at the Hive would
look like a standing confirmation of it.

The Doctor felt the gnawing pangs of
despair. He had just been congratulating
himself upon having slain the hydra-headed
monster, and, lo ! here it was again, more
threatening than it had ever been. Was
there no way of crushing it utterly ? Noway
of escaping from the past that had
thrown its tenacious arms around him and
dragged him down to misery ?

Chapter IX.

AN EXPLANATION.

The Doctor had sent an urgent '' whip " to
the effect that, if the Civil Service Examiners
were to be circumvented at the next examination,
not a single day must be lost. As he
had intended, it indirectly strengthened the
impression that he was not to blame for the
recent failures, and increased the confidence
placed in him as an able general. It also
brought the pupils back with remarkable
punctuality, more than half of them returning
on the first day of term, in spite of the
attraction of partridge-shooting.

One of the first to arrive was Plantagenet,
who instantly rushed off to the Manor to see
Mildred Strathclyde. After him, processions

of vehicles of every kind came pouring into
the village, their occupants shouting, laughing,
and blowing coach-horns as if they were
wild with delight at getting back to Puddleton.
Mr. Smirkee, who had in most cases
been written to on the subject, had the
greatest difficulty in providing enough
vehicles. Many were bis own, some came
from the Cygnet at Stilbury, and others
from the different inns in the neighbourhood ;
so they were what an auctioneer would calla
good mixed lot."

Besides the first day's contingent of nearly
ninety pupils, there were fourteen tutors to
be provided for. Mr. Smirkee showed a nice
discrimination of rank by assigning to them
the worst specimens in his collection, each
according to his importance. The Professor
of Mathematics fared better than the Professor
of Spelling, who was obliged to be content
with a decayed tax-cart, the seat being so
insecure as to upset him and the driver twice
on the road. Mr. Jostler arrived in a sort of
shandrydan. Whether or not he considered

it an insult to his dignity, be stroked his long
beard in silence the whole way, and, on
alighting, endeavoured to make a speech to
several persons in turn. A general panic
ensued ; all fled except one, a new pupil,
whom Mr. Jostler promptly button-holed.

Towards evening a solitary fly, piled high
with luggage, was seen advancing along the
Stilbury Eoad, where the sun, shorn of its
strength, was glaring through the tall dark
poplars as through the bars of a prison. The
breeze, rustling softly past the vines and
creepers on the cottages, brought with it a
faint sound of music, which bore some resemblance
to a well-known tune.

The latest excitement having drawn nearly
everybody out of doors, all turned to watch
the approaching vehicle.

When it came nearer, they beheld, seated
cross-legged among the luggage on the roof,
a short broad figure smoking a cigar and
strumming a banjo. It was Heavisides, of
course, smiling sweetly, just the same as ever,
except that his dress was not quite so startling

as usual. His arrival was greeted with a roar
of laughter from a crowd of pupils who
soon gathered round, while a number of
the villagers grinned in the background.
Though evidently pleased with his reception,
he at once plunged into the news communicated
to him bj the driver.

'' Hey, you fellows ! " he cried from his
perch on the roof. " What's the meaning of
this yarn Albert has been telling me ? The
Doctor playing Old Harry — Nellie Coping-stone
some one else's daughter — two strangers
threatening if he doesn't pay up — Arnold and
Hebe singing in London hothouses — Gaunt
bolted — a queer old Frenchman shoved in the
Hive ! I can't make head or tail of it."

He was told half-a-dozen versions of Mr.
Valentine Gaunt's story, all more or less
exaggerated.

I don't believe a word of it," he said
stoutly.

But, man alive," exclaimed Tattlemaine,
the Doctor has confessed that he has been
telling lies about Arnold ; and if part of the

story is true, you may be sure the whole of
it is."

I don't see that at all," objected
Heavisides. " It's just as easy to deny the
whole as to deny the part."

Well, and who said it wasn't ? "

And it would be much more likely to go
down. So I say that what the Doctor denies,
is false ; and only what he admits, is true."

What a simple creature you are,
Heavisides ! " exclaimed Tattlemaine with
contempt. There was a general laugh, after
which he went on, " Why, the Doctor is just
the sly old fox to argue in the very way you
are doing. He would say, * If I admit what
is clear, I'm sure to gain credit for candour
and to be believed in what I deny.' Don't
you see, you are falling into one of his traps?"

Heavisides thoughtfully rubbed his chin.
Knowing that he was not over-wise, he had a
particular objection to being considered a fool.

** Do you mean to tell me," he asked, after
a pause, " that Nellie Copingstone is not the
Doctor's daughter ? "

He says so himself," cried a score of
voices.

I'm hanged if I ever heard of such, a
queer thing." He stopped to hand down a
portmanteau to the driver. " Then, whose
daughter is she ? "

Before any one could reply, there was a
general move to the footpath, for a dogcart
came tearing along the street at a hand
gallop. It was driven by Philip Strathclyde,
hot, flushed, and too excited to pay any heed
to the remonstrances addressed to him by the
old groom, who looked anything but comfortable.
The horse was in a white lather,
and the dust followed in clouds. Philip was
driving as if for his life. He nodded to his
friends in passing, and they looked pityingly
after him ; it seemed to them that this strange
affair threatened his happiness.

At the Hut he pulled up, so suddenly as
almost to throw the unfortunate horse on its
haunches, and, after tossing the reins to the
groom, sprang to the ground and darted off
to his friend's study.

In the morning Mrs. Strathclyde had
asked Philip to carry a note to a friend who
lived at a considerable distance. When he
arrived there, he was obliged to stay to lunch,
and it was not until nearly four o'clock that
he was able to get away. On his return he
found Plantagenet at the Manor, and learnt
from him the story which was causing such
a commotion in the village. Hence his drive
in hot haste.

Sterne was busy writing. Indeed, he had
been writing all the afternoon, and the table
was covered with letters, each having a blank
space for the name. The first of them had
been dictated by the Doctor ; the rest were
copies. They explained briefly what had
happened, and were to be sent to such of the
parents as should request an explanation.
Though the Doctor generally liked to take
the bull by the horns, he deemed it better in
this case to wait until he had received a dig
in the ribs, after which he would be ready to
act without a moment's delay.

Sterne had urged that all the parents

should be written to without waiting for
them to take the initiative. He wished to
place an insurmountable barrier between the
present and the past — to prevent the Doctor
from retracing his steps ; and also to impose
upon him an act of penance, sealing, as it
were, his expressed intention to make a fresh
start. No doubt it was the very thing the
austere clergyman would have done himself;
but the Doctor shrank from it, and had many
reasons against it. It might be excellent
morality, he said, but it would certainly be
pitiable policy. He would never dream of
forcing his private affairs upon those who
might not otherwise hear about them. If he
did, they would probably be offended at his
presumption in supposing them to take the
smallest interest in him. In consenting to
the present plan, he had gone quite far
enough. Sterne sighed, and then began to
write the letters that were on the table when
Philip entered the room.

There are some dreadful lies going about
the village," cried Philip, " and I have
driven over to ask you for an explanation."

Sit down first, Philip' said Sterne
kindly. "It's nothing to be greatly alarmed
about. Here, smoke a cigarette. When you
have heard what I have to say, you will
think better of the Doctor than you have
ever done before."

But some scoundrel is saying that Nellie
isn't his daughter."

Patience, Philip ! you must let me go
my own pace."

He briefly narrated the events of the past
year, ending with what had occurred at the
Rectory on the previous evening.

This," he continued, " effectually disposes
of M. Dubarri's story. He is an impulsive
hasty old fellow, but I admit his conclusion
was not unnatural, especially as it was fostered
by the Doctor himself, acting as usual
with the best motives yet in a way that is
incomprehensible to me. In fact, he and I
see things from totally different standpoints,
both doubtless having their defects. If he
has some qualities I should like altered, he
certainly has many others in every way

VOL. Ti.

admirable. Still, as you see, his conduct
with regard to Arnold has placed him ina
very unpleasant position. His intentions
were even better in Nellie's case, and vet his
action has led him into the greatest trouble
merely because it was not quite straightforward.
To explain this I must give you a
scrap of his family history. No, Philip ;
don't throw your cigarette away. Well,
light another. I won't say a word if you're
going to dance about the room."

Philip, who had risen to his feet, accordingly
sat down again.

'' Charles Copingstone, the Doctor's father,"
resumed Sterne, " was a poor clergyman. He
had two brothers, both business men, both in
comfortable circumstances, and both crotchety
old bachelors. The one was called Cyprian
and the other Claude. It was arranged between
them that, should a son be born to
Charles, he was to be named after his two
uncles. One 14th of February, however,
Mrs. Copingstone presented her husband with
a double valentine in the shape of twins, and

thus placed him in an awkward dilemma.
His brothers living at too great a distance to
be consulted, he solved the difficulty and at
the same time paid each of them a delicate
compliment by calling one twin Claude Cyprian
and the other Cyprian Claude. The
former is the Doctor, Arnold's father ; the
latter is Nellie's father."

Now I understand it all," cried Philip,
after an astonished stare. " When Nellie's
father ran away from Hastings, the Doctor
took her as his own daughter in order to
guard her from scandal. And he has been
suffering all this for her sake ! What a noble
old man he is ! You were right when you
told me to withhold my judgment."

The Doctor was influenced by three
motives : a promise to his wife not to disclose
what would certainly pain and might
injure their adopted daughter ; a fear lest a
breath of scandal should damage his own
prospects ; and a wish to protect Nellie,
which, I believe, was the most powerful."

A characteristic speech, showing not only

a generous preference for looking at the
better side of human nature, but also his
rigid adherence to the truth, even when it
detracted from the virtues of the friend whom
he had laboured so hard io prove virtuous.
The second of these motives, it will be remembered,
he had long ago considered insufficient
to explain the Doctor's behaviour.

'* What became of Nellie's father ? " asked
Philip.

" It is one of the mysteries that will probably
never be solved in this world. He was
always eccentric ; he had given much trouble
in early life ; and his wife's death seems to
have upset him completely. It is most likely,
I fear, that he ended his existence by drowning,
for some of his previous acts point
strongly to mental derangement. One thing
is quite certain : his disappearance at the
same time as Miss Merle — or Madame Far-ninth,
as she is now — was purely a coincidence.
Of course this was not the opinion
then ; the truth only came out last night.
When the Doctor, who was living near Birmingham

at the time, arrived at Hastings in
answer to a telegram from his brother's
solicitor, he was told the story of the elopement.
It was so circumstantial that he was
obliged to believe it. No other conclusion
seemed possible, and if any doubts had
cropped up, they would have been swept
way by M. Dubarri's pursuit after the supposed
fugitives. His threats of vengeance
decided the Doctor to act promptly. He sold
off the furniture for NelHe's benefit, buying
for himself a portrait of his brother which
you may see at the back of his own portrait
in the study. When the auction was over,
he hurried away, leaving a deaf old charwoman
in charge of the house until he could
get rid of the lease. Mistaken by the resemblance
between the two, she supposed
him to be his brother : an idea that he purposely
strengthened, with the result of
deceiving M. Dubarri on his return from his
wild goose chase.

The Doctor then removed from Birmingham
to London, and a few months liter to

Puddleton, where, as we know, he has neglected
no precaution for guarding his secret.
Still, his dread of its being discovered was
the very thing that led to the discovery. It
made him so suspicions that he dug for himself
the pitfall which Gaunt was quick to see
and utilize. Poor old man, I fear his troubles
are not over yet."

I fully appreciate two of his motives,"
said Philip, " but not the third. It was very
noble indeed of him to go on suffering for
Nellie's sake, when by a few words lie might
have escaped ; I'm not likely to underestimate
that. But suppose his unfortunate
brother had married Miss Merle and deserted
Nellie — for no reason that I can see — and
suppose it had become known, it wouldn't
have mattered two straws to the parents of
any of the Doctor's pupils. It couldn't have
hurt him."

He knows his own business better than
you do, Philip. His fears were exaggerated,
I grant, just as yours would be if you supposed
Nellie to be in any danger; but I'm

afraid you'll soon have proof that they were
not without foundation. Parents are ' kittle
cattle ' to deal with. They actually encourage
their sons' excesses, which they consider
a sort of absurd malady, less hurtful
than mumps or measles, but more inevitable
to youth, as if a definite amount of sin were
bottled up in every one and ought to be uncorked
before age has given it a dangerous
strength. Bat if a tutor commits a single
error, however trivial, if even the slightest
suspicion rests upon any member of his
family, he is a person to be shunned and
shuddered at. You see, PhiHp, I am in an
uncharitable mood to-day, but T have felt it
my duty to recommend the Doctor to take a
certain course, and it is sure to harm him
from a worldly point of view."

He has told his story in the village."

Yes, by my advice."

But few believe it," said Philip, looking
as if he would like to pound a little faith into
the incredulous.

But Sterne answered gently, '' I think

they will, when their judgment has had time
to cool. And now I must tell you the reason
why I have been so careful in giving you all
these details. You are to be the Doctor's
nephew."

"• Nephew ! " It was hard to realize the
change in the situation.

Yes. He has consented to your marriage
with Nellie."

This announcement gave Philip a sudden
shock of delight. Though he had all along
confidently looked forward to success, it quite
took his breath away to find that every
obstacle had vanished. The past had become
an ugly dream, but it was difficult to escape
from its influence in a moment. Gaunt gone
and the Doctor released from his troubles —
that was surely something to be thankful for.
And now Nellie was really to be his ! The
castles they had built together rose before
his dazzled eyes, and his cheeks glowed as he
gazed upon them.

Suddenly he sprang up and went across to
Sterne.

'' I owe my happiness to yon," he said.
^' Yes, I know it as well as if you had told
me. How can T thank you ? "

By making Nellie a good husband."

I should be a brute if I didn't for her
sake. But I want to do something for you.
Oh, please, don't shake your head, for I'm
sure you don't grudge me what would be an
addition to my happiness, and sometimes, you
know, the mouse can help the lion. The
duke " — he referred not without importance
to the Duke of Tudor, but spoke as if there
were only one duke in the world — " has no
end of livings in his gift, and now that
Mildred is going to marry Plantagenet, wee
ought to be able to get a rare good one for
you."

Sterne smiled at the handsome, fair-haired
lad, standing by the side of his chair, and
putting forward this suggestion with a
pleasant mixture of modesty and j^^^i^^.
Still, he had no wish for a change, the place
where he had fought and conquered having
become more attractive than ever ; but not

caring to throw cold water upon the plans of
his enthusiastic young friend, let him rattle on.

Presently Philip discovered that he had
urgent business at the Eectory. He announced
the discovery with surprise, and
immediately afterwards blushed at it, endeavouring
to hide his confusion by the performance
of a sort of war-dance. In fact, he
was in such an excited state that Sterne,
thinking of the Doctor, almost forcibly
detained him to dinner.

The entrance of Mrs. Sterne put an end
to all opposition. She proved as sympathetic
a companion as a young lover could desire.
Not to interfere with her husband's work,
she took Philip away to the drawing-room,
and, after he had sent the dog-cart to the
Lark-nest, they sat talking of Nellie and the
coming marriage.

Mrs. Sterne assumed quite a motherly air
towards Philip. Her tones and manner were
delightfully confidential. She gave him
many hints on domestic matters ; she even
furnished his home from top to bottom, and

provided it with staid servants who knew
their business, and who abound in the matron's
brain; but she always came back to the match
itself, for which she took a large share of the
credit. On one point Philip thoroughly
agreed with her— that Nellie was the dearest
girl that ever lived.

After dinner he presented himself at the
Eectory. The door was opened by Higgins,
whose face can only be described as a single
solemn smile. Though the Doctor s sanction
to the marriage had not yet been announced,
this white-headed old sphinx seemed to know
all about it. Never before had he been so
gracious ; he was at once deferential, patronising,
and fatherly. As he led the way
through the fine old hall, with its oak
carvings, and the pictures on the walls, he
seemed anxious not to turn his back on Philip,
for he walked sideways like a crab, talking-most
amiably until he reached the drawing-room
door. When he had opened it, his smile
lost some of its solemnity.

'' Mr. Philip, Miss Nellie," he announced

Lis watchful glance passing from one to the
other. It was the first time that he had ever
omitted Philip's surname.

Nellie was alone, reading on one of the
couches. The room had a very cosy appearance,
the lamp being lighted and coffee on
the gipsy-table in front of her. Before she
had time to rise, Philip was sitting by her
side, his arm around her waist, his lips
pressed to hers — in short, serenely happy.

Time went by.

"Didn't I tell you how it would be?"
exclaimed the lover, wishing to inspire a
little prenuptial confidence in himself.

"You did, you big wise thing," murmured
Nellie.

Ha ! ha ! You'll believe me another time,
my blue-eyed pet."

We'll see."

And now it's all plain sailing."

No, Philip. My fa Oh, how strange

it all is ! My dear kind uncle is in great

distress. If the pupils go, I — I Oh, T

don't know what will happen to him."

But they shan't go, pretty croaker. Dear
me, I'll make them swallow the truth, and
nothing but the truth. I'll spend the whole
day tomorrow — remember, I'm no longer a
pupil, Nellie — in walking about the village,
proving to everybody what a noble man the
Doctor is."

But if they don't believe you ? "

Then I'll knock them down, or get
knocked down in trying."

He was mischievously watching her, to
see how far she accepted this ferocious utterance.
Of a sudden, a strangely anxious expression
leaped into her young face. There
was a paper shade over the lamp ; without a
word, he rose and removed it. Then he sat
down and scrutinized Nellie with intense
earnestness.

Why, you're quite feverish, Nellie," he
said. " I thought you were blushing — when
I came in — but your cheeks are like fire.
You're not ill."

I don't think it's anything more than a
bad headache, Philip."

He gave a great sigh of relief, but, sanguine
as he had always been hitherto, looked at her
doubtfully.

A headache doesn't make one's face red
and hot," he said.

You see, it has made mine."

'' Nellie, I feel sure you ought to go to bed
immediately ; at least, the very moment I
am gone. And you ought to have Dr.
Fogge."

But the positions were now reversed,
Nellie taking the brighter view. She laughed
at the idea of seeing a doctor for a trifling
ailment which would be gone in the morning.
It was nothing to make a fuss about, she
declared; and yet there was a strange languor
in her movements, an effort in everything
she did, that ' showed how much her brave
face cost her. One moment she was hot, and
the next cold, and she drank a great quantity
of coffee. Philip was quite right ; she ought
to have been in bed long ago, and would
have been, but for her wish not to add to the
Doctor's anxiety.

He came in presently, looking so cheerful
that none could have guessed his trouble.
Now that his oppressor was gone, he had
regained his old elasticity of spirits. There
was no despondency in his appearance, but
rather energy, determination, and confidence
in the resources that had proved so serviceable
when, as now, he was free.

He greeted Philip with great warmth, but,
after learning that Sterne had given a full
explanation, made no further allusion to the
past. He seemed anxious to forget it. The
future was a far pleasant topic. He was
going to see Arnold and Hebe tomorrow, he
said ; he had to provide for them, which would
require a good deal of thinking ; probably,
he would bring Arnold back with him for a
day or two.

He talked chiefly, however, of the prospects
of his companions, Nellie and Philip, not ina
serious, business-like way — it was neither
the time nor the place for that — but with
pleasant, jocular good-humour, which set the
young couple completely at their ease. There

had been difficulties, but they were gone.
Henceforth, these three were to be the best of
friends.

To the account of this day's proceedings
one sentence must be added. Every pupil
writing home to announce his safe arrival,
filled np his letter with the various accounts
of what had happened, Mr. Valentine Aunt's
being among the number.

CHAPTER X.

TOTTERING.

The Doctor left Puddleton with the usual
pretence of slyness — sent his empty carriage
through the village and walked across the
fields to meet it. A fresh start ! Ah well !
it is easier to turn ^' the old Adam " with his
face to the wall than it is to get rid of him
entirely. So long as he is not too obtrusive,
we should be content. If he is put out of
sight, there is no need to turn the picture
round in order to look at the other side. The
Doctor's method of departure was one of his
most harmless tricks, and he was not likely
to change it in a hurry.

There would, he knew, be much" confusion
owing to his absence at this critical period of

VOL. III. P

the term, but it gave him no uneasiness.
Indeed, he was rather pleased than otherwise.
It would afford him an excellent opportunity
of proving to tutors and pupils alike that he
had not lost his cunning : a sort of field-day
when he would again appear as commander-in-chief.
By his keenness of penetration, his
promptitude, his decision, he would show
them his skill in evolving order from disorder,
and so reassert his authority. It
would require work, of course, but he liked
work — could not do without it, in fact, and
the end was worth striving for.

It was a pleasant prospect that the old man
conjured up. He gazed at it the more
steadily because he doubted, careful as he
was to conceal his doubts from others.
Formerly, on such occasions as the present, he
would have been busy with his pencil and
notebook settling the work of each pupil
and every detail of his plans. But this
bright September morning he contented himself
with regarding the general effect from a
distance. It may have been the motion of

the carriage along the pretty country road,
with the picturesque old trees marking its
course through the sunlit fields ; but the
Doctor, lying back among the cushions,
abandoned himself to day-dreams. A strange
thing for him to do !

Sometimes, it is true, his doubts got the
better of him, and he permitted himself the
luxury of a sigh. There was nobody to see
or hear him so what did it matter ? It was
an indulgence for which he had no leisure asa
rule, but now he could go further — he could
even confess that he was just a little weary.
The difficulties to be grappled with looked
more formidable than they would once have
done. He felt conscious of a certain loss of
power and a greater irritation at trifles, consequent
upon the severe buffeting he had
lately received. He scarcely liked to admit
it, and yet it would force itself upon him.
Besides, the old incentive to action had been
deprived of much of its strength, for he was
building: in order that another than his son
should inherit. At the same time, he had

decided that the other should be Leonard
Sterne, who deserved his reward if ever a
man deserved anything. It was a great
consolation to think that the establishment
would, after his death, be ruled over by his
trusty friend. He, no doubt, would preserve
its fair fame, though he was too inflexible to
keep it at its present level. There would be
plenty of money for Arnold and plenty for
Nellie.

And then the Doctor remembered that he
had not seen her before starting. She had
sent him a message expressing her regret at
not being able to get downstairs in time to
see him off. In his haste he had never given
it another thought. For the first time it
occurred to him that she had not been looking
well for the last day or two. Surely she
could not be ill ! Here was a fresh source of
anxiety for the unfortunate old man.

He arrived in London shortly before noon,
and, entering a hansom, drove at once to his
destination.

Like most local potentates, the Doctor

detested London, not only because it lowered
him in the social scale, but also because he
was obliged to exchange the comfortable
steeple hat for the uncomfortable top hat,
and to wear such clothes as his clerical tailor
told him were the latest fashion. They
always made him feel, he once observed, as if
he were tied up in a bag.

It was no mild form of penance for him to
have to endure the bustle and noise of the
streets. He was very glad when the hansom
stopped at the little house in the Harrow
Road. Though unprepared for its dingy
appearance, he did not start as Mrs. Pike
and Hebe had done. Whatever his feelings
may have been, he kept them well under
control, knowing that he was probably being
inspected from the windows. It was with a
cheerful face and an upright carriage that
the tall, wiry old man walked to the door
and knocked.

He was admitted by a neat servant
temporarily engaged by Mrs. Pike. She
had a clean face, clean cap, clean apron.

Everything about her, even her smile,
showed that she had been carefully trained
to receive this particular visitor, who, alas !
took as little notice of her as he did of Mr.
Pike's umbrella in the hall.

She ushered him into the sitting-room,
where Arnold was standing with his back to
the grate.

The old man had entered with quite a
jaunty air; but at the sight of Arnold, the
smile vanished and a sudden weakness overpowered
him. He faltered for a moment,
and then rushed forward, stretching out his
hand, which had made an involuntary movement
to his side, and there welled up from
his heart the words —

My son — my son ! "

But Arnold stood motionless, gazing with
awe and pity at the white hair and beard and
the deeply lined face.

And I have done this!" he said, thinking
aloud.

No — oh no 1 " eagerly cried the Doctor,
drawing himself more erect. The need of
overcoming this difficulty gave him fresh

strength. " Not you, Arnold — certainly not
but that man Gaunt. You know, he has
been behaving in a most shameful way, and
I have had great trouble with him — every
great trouble indeed. If I am at all changed,
it is he "

It is exceedingly kind of you to say so,
father," interrupted Arnold gently, '' but Mr.
Sterne has told me the truth."

The Doctor reddened like a schoolboy.

Where is Hebe ? " he asked hastily. " I
am so anxious to see her."

She will be here presently. But I must
first tell you "

No, no, Arnold ; don't tell me anything.
Now, what would you like to do ? That's
the most important question. I'll provide
the money ; but, if possible, I should like to
have you both somewhere near me. What
do you say to my buying Ferndale for you ?
At once, eh ? It is capital land, with a good,
comfortable house ; and I could easily get a
man to teach you farming until you could
stand on your own legs."

You make me feel " said Arnold

sadly.

But again the Doctor interrupted him.

Then there is Hebe. She would like to
be near her parents, and they, I'm sure,
would like it too. We old people have our
fancies, you know."

The door opened to admit Hebe, looking
very frightened and confused. She wore her
most becoming dress ; the arrangement of
her golden hair showed that a vast amount
of attention had been paid to it ; there was
even a slight trace of powder on her pretty
face, though it was not successful in hiding
the blushes. It requires a tolerably solid
coat of paint to do that.

The Doctor soon banished Hebe's timidity.
It brought the tears into Arnold's eyes to see
him bend down to kiss the shy, upturned
girlish face. The mixture of courtesy and
fatherly tenderness in his manner was singularly
touching. He led her to the couch,
sat down by her side and chatted to her as
pleasantly as if there was no past to forgive

and forget. Under this care, the conversation
glided smoothly from one safe topic to
another. When it threatened to take too
serious a turn, he dived into his abundant
store of anecdotes and set the young couple
laughing, and, when the laughter flagged,
laid before them a delightful programme for
the future. He had never been seen to
greater advantage. It was perhaps the first
real glimpse that Arnold ever got of the true
simplicity lying beneath the artificial web
with which his father had loved to cover
himself.

Hebe was charmed with the idea of living
at Ferndale, a very pretty place about a mile
from the village. Nothing could be sweeter,
she declared. Pleased with his success, the
Doctor went on to tell her of his other plans.
By an arrangement with Mrs. Strathclyde
and the Duke of Tudor, he hoped to secure
the Manor for Philip and Nellie ; and Sterne
was to have a large increase of salary at
once, and afterwards to succeed to the living
and the pupils. He only regretted, he said,

that his good friend was childless. A sigh
rose to his lips, and, seeing that he was
treading on dangerous ground, he dashed
into a lighter vein.

And now the others trickled in, their order
and the intervals between them being obviously
the result of design. First came
Mrs. Pike, smiling, yet not without anxiety ;
then Mr. Pike, with a holiday mien which
was held in check by his collar ; and finally
M. Dubarri, who pounced upon the Doctor
and violently shook him by the hand, in spite
of a look that should have warned him to be
less demonstrative. Indeed, it seemed as if
a current of cold air had entered with each
of the new arrivals, for a constraint had
fallen upon the whole party.

The change was due to the Doctor, who
was being watched even more anxiously than
he had ever been at Puddleton. An unmistakable
stiffness had come over his manner,
and it had communicated itself in some
degree to the others. He was annoyed to
find that the lawyer and his wife showed no

sense of the honour conferred upon them by
their daughter's marriage with his son. By
the way they spoke, they might be welcoming
a stranger into their family, whereas that
was the position for him to take, though of
course he could not do so now. Clearly, as
the Doctor had admitted to himself, he was
more liable to irritation than he used to be.

He recovered himself presently, however,
and invited the whole party to lunch with
him at his favourite restaurant, where he
ordered everything on the menu. It is
always the way with these habitually frugal
men when they really lay themselves out to
please ; they plunge headlong into extravagances
that make the spendthrift stare.
Dish after dish and wine after wine appeared
on the table, most of them to be removed
scarcely tasted. The waiter, who occasionally
retired to a quiet corner to laugh, had only
to hint that something was out of season,
and the Doctor promptly declared it must be
brought.

Afterwards it occurred to him that HeLe

would like to go to some place of amusement,
and knowing nothing of London except in sofar
as it concerned his business affairs, he
suggested Madame Tussaud's. She agreed,
of course. So thither they all went in a
couple of cabs.

There is no need to relate the many
adventures of this strange day. That the
Doctor was bored goes without saying, yet
he expressed himself greatly pleased, and did
everything in his power to provide entertainment
for Hebe. Before he left, he bought
for her a magnificent diamond bracelet and
some other jewelry, so they parted on the
best of terms.

Arnold and M. Dubarri accompanied him
back to Puddleton, the one to undertake his
new duties and the other to look at the
proposed farm. The carriage met them at
Stilbury.

During the homeward drive through the
twilight, the Doctor told his companions the
story that Mr. Valentine Gaunt had put in
circulation. He relied upon them, he said,

to do their utmost to disprove it, for which
they were better situated than anybody he.
It was a fatal mistake to underestimate a
threatened danger, and he could not disguise
the fact that, unless the scandal were nipped
in the bud, it might do him a terrible injury.

Arnold said very little. He sat with
tightened muscles and fists clenched, and
breathed as heavily as if he had been running
a mile. If Mr. Valentine Gaunt should
ever chance to fall into his hands, it would
go hard with him. But M. Dubarri could
scarcely keep still, he was so excited. He
declaimed in violent terms against *' the
crafty fellow," and promised a regular crusade
through the whole parish ; and as he
spoke, tapping the Doctor on the knee every
now and again, his keen little eyes glowed in
the dusk like a cat's. His vehemence was
rather trying to the Doctor, but he could not
help being kindly disposed towards one who
espoused his cause with such evident sincerity.

Indeed, there was no nonsense about M.
Dubarri when once his feelings were enlisted.

When he reached the Hive, he lost no time
in introducing himself to the pupils and
laying bare to them his history, concluding
with the invention of the invaluable chimneypot,
which he moderately put at double its
former price.

*' I am frank, you see, my friends," he said ;
and they thoroughly agreed with him. "But
why ? Ah ! I have a reason for it, you maybe
sure. I am not a fool ; never fear. That
rascal Gaunt, has he not lied against the
good Doctor ? You might believe him ; and
after, there would be trouble. That is why
I have told you the truth."

They thought him a wonderfully amusing
old fellow. His comical face, his animated
gestures, his baggy trousers and antique
frock-coat, all added to the effect and kept
them in roars of laughter. Far into the
nio^ht he sat with them in their common
room, while they stood, sat, and lounged
around, listening to his tales of marvellous
adventures by sea and land : tales that made
them nudge one another and wink slyly.

Notwithstanding the Ribbon of the Legion of
Honour, they could not quite believe the
valour of this shrivelled old warrior to have
been as fiery as he made out. Still, when
they separated for bed, it would be hard to
say whether he was more pleased with them
or they with him, for if much of his talk was
decidedly " tall," it lacked the objectionable
quality of self-assertiveness. At the same
time, it may fairly be questioned whether it
was a good beginning for a new tutor.

Next morning, when M. Dubarri should
have started work with his pupils, an unexpected
hitch occurred. The Doctor, who
had promised to be on the spot in order to
set them going," never turned up. This
was all the more extraordinary, because he
usually began the day by popping his head
into each class-room in turn. Hour after
hour they waited for him, their patience
being due to more anecdotes from M.
Dubarri. But the morning passed without
his appearing among them.

The Doctor's absence was due to two

causes : firstly, Nellie's illness, which had
now completely prostrated her ; secondly, an
avalanche of letters from anxious and, in some
cases, angry parents, some requesting an explanation,
and others demanding that their
sons should be sent back at once. One thing-was
especially noticeable — those who were the
deepest in the Doctor's debt were the most
virulent against him. To put their words in
plain language, they said it was a shocking
thing that a clergyman, professing to take
charge of the morality as well as the education
of youth, should have set such a frightful
example. Even by his own account, he had
been guilty of fraud in putting forward his
niece as his daughter, and in declaring a son
who was performing in a London music-hall
to be at the University. Some had the
execrable taste to allude to the disappearance
of Nellie's father, to treat it as a grave
offence rather than a misfortune, and — on
the ground that these things ran in the
blood — to lay it on the Doctor's already overburdened
shoulders.

The long and short of this melancholy
affair was the reduction of the pupils from
an expected hundred and twenty to an
actual sixty.

Most of those who remained behind were
old staggers. Their parents knew the Doctor
and believed in him. They were in a measure
his friends, and, as such, looked at his
motives rather than his acts. One or two
even went so far as to say that under the
same circumstances they would have taken
the same line of conduct. It was an interesting
subject for discussion ; and, news being
dull that autumn, it provoked a wordy warfare
in many a country house.

But leaving the abstract question to settle
itself, it will be seen that the position might
have been very much worse. At one time
the Doctor had looked forward to twenty
pupils, at two hundred pounds a year each,
as the acme of his ambition ; and yet here
he had sixty at three hundred ! A wreck,
no doubt ; but a wreck worth clinging to
with tooth and nail. Still, with his elevation

VOL. III. Q

he had gradually acquired wider views, and
what he would once have considered a boundless
fortune had now shrunk to a miserable
pittance. At the same time, it was not the
money that he cared about, though he was
grieved at being obliged to curtail his
arrangements for Arnold and NelHe ; it was
the destruction of his hopes, the disaster to
his own fame.

That the Doctor's spirit had not been
broken by Mr. Valentine Gaunt's methodical
cruelty, he now showed. Instead of dismissing
any of his tutors, he retained the
whole staff at their old salaries, and offered
to each a handsome sum for every success in
his particular subject. He divided the classes
so that every pupil should receive almost
constant attention ; supervised all the work
himself, down to the minutest details ; spared
neither time nor trouble to bring his plans to
the highest state of efficiency ; and kept
tutors and pupils working like galley-slaves,
though as usual he was on the alert for the
least sign of distress and ready to apply the

proper remedy. In short, he had determined
to put every other tutor in the shade at the
next examination. He would thus be revenged
upon those who had withdrawn their sons, bring
many of them back as suppliants, and retrieve
his fallen fortune. His energy was marvellous.
It gained for him a host of friends,
for if there is one quality more than another
that an Englishman admires, it is the sturdy
courage that will not acknowledge defeat.

One evening, a few days after his visit to
London, he was sitting in his study. Paper,
pens, and ink were on the table before him,
but he was leaning back in his chair, his
grey head resting in his hand. He looked
tired — yes, he was always tired after dinner
and anxious, yet he was evidently waiting
to catch the faintest sound in the hall. Once
he walked impatiently to the door, opened it,
and stood there listening, only to sigh wearily
and return to his seat. For what seemed to
him an interminable time, the silence was
broken only by the ticking of the clock on
the mantelpiece.

THE OLD ADAM.

At length there was a footstep in the hall.
He sat erect, rigid, gazing with intense
eagerness at the door.

Mr. Fogge entered. The surgeon was a
melancholy little wizened man, with a whiteface
and black hair. Looking at him, one
instinctively thought, " What a healthy place
Puddleton must be ! " He had just been
paying a visit to Nellie, whose complaint he
appeared to have found some difficulty in
diagnosing. Ashen he had closed the door,
he shuffled up to the table without speaking.

'' Well ? " exclaimed the Doctor.

The absence of any eruption "

Oh, never mind that. Is she worse or
better ? "

The disease must run its course," replied
Mr. Fogge dismally.

But what is it ? "

It is, as I feared, a case of typhoid
fever."

Agony and despair were written on the old
man's face. He bowed his head beneath the
heaviest blow that had yet fallen upon him.

Not only was Nellie's life in danger, but, if he
should divulge the nature of her malady, he
felt that not a pupil would be left to him. It
was a terrible temptation. He dared not look
at the surgeon. Covering his eyes with his
hand, he lay back in his chair.

CHAPTER XL

THE END.

The Doctor had now reached the severest
struggle of his whole life. Beside it, his
recent trials sank into insignificance, for here
the issue depended solely upon the exercise of
his own will. On the one hand lay everything
that he had set his heart upon ; on the
other, the extinction of his hopes, together
with loss of occupation, which not infrequently
means death to a man whose existence is
wrapped up in his business. The former was
to be gained by a mere suppression of the
truth ; the latter would be the consequence of
straightforward conduct, which ought surely
to be a safeguard against trouble if his past
sufferings had any moral at all.

If the disease could have been traced to its
source, such as the milk supply from any
particular farm — a view that Mr. Fogge was
inclined to favour — the Doctor would scarcely
have hesitated as to which course to pursue.
But it so happened that Nellie's was not the
only case in the parish ; the child living in
the cottage among the fir-trees was similarly
affected, and no connection could be found
between them. Clearly, then, an insidious
foe was in their midst, and, not knowing
whence it had sprung, they could do nothing
to prevent it from committing further
mischief.

The question before the Doctor seems a
very simple one. Would he, or would he
not, be justified in hushing up this outbreak
of typhoid fever ; and perhaps in prevaricating
on the subject, for some inquiries
were sure to be addressed to him ?

Yet if you will think of all that depended
upon the answer, if you will fairly weigh the
arguments on both sides — the many chances
against the infection's spreading to a pupil

and the almost certain ruin of publicity — and
if you will remember what a shifting ground
is the abstract principle of right and wrong,
you will not wonder that the old man was
sorely tried. A deft dealer in subterfuge, he
had taken to a more legitimate business, only to
encounter at the outset this terrible obstacle.

His first thought was for Nellie. He
expressed his intention of telegraphing next
morning as soon as the post-office opened,
for a London physician. Not that he entertained
any want of confidence in Mr. Fogge,
he said ; but a consultation could do no harm
and might do good ; he always liked to bring
his full force into action before the enemy
had time to deploy into line.

His last words to the surgeon were :

Remember, Mr. Fogge, not a syllable of
this until I see you again."

You may rely upon me, Dr. Copingstone.
Good night to you."

And Mr. Fogge glided away like an uneasy
ghost.

The Doctor, who had accompanied him to

the door, returned to his study and began to
pace to and fro : a sure sign of great agitation,
for he seldom stirred from his seat in
the evening. As he walked, the fingers of
both hands kept passing through and through
his scanty grey locks, and his careworn face
was bedewed with perspiration. But the
eyes that so often sparkled with fun, were the
saddest sight ; they were brimful of darkness,
as if the light were turned upon the fierce
struggle going on within.

More than once he hesitated near the bell,
but passed on again. At length he made a
swift movement towards it, and rang it with
desperate energy.

Higgins appeared.

The Doctor stood with his back towards
him — never stirred at his entrance. Higgins
looked solemn and, as usual, watchful, but
was too discreet to exhibit any curiosity.
Knowing his master well, he waited in
silence.

Suddenly the Doctor turned and said with
suppressed excitement —

Higgins — the window — it's cold."

Yes, sir."

The white-headed manservant showed no
surprise, though the veins were standing out
on the Doctor's forehead and his face was as
red as poor Nellie's upstairs. He merely
walked to both windows, closed them, and
retired.

The Doctor resumed his restless tramp.
He clasped his hands, and his eyes wandered
about the room as if they were searching fora
way of escape. Presently they fell upon
the double picture and he halted before it,
looking apparently at it but really at his
past life. Out of the mist came a procession
of shadowy forms, each pleading and arguing
with him, taking one side or the other, and
vanishing to give place to the next.

In the end, he again rang the bell.

Tell Mr. Sterne," he said to Higgins, " I
want him at once." He spoke as if afraid of
himself. " At once, Higgins ! Don't lose a
moment."

When the door had closed, he dropped into

his chair, so heavily that every particle of
strength seemed to have left his body. Yet
it was only a minute or two later that he
once more showed the wonderful power of his
will. He sprang to his feet, dashed into the
hall, seized his hat, and ran down the gravel
sweep to the gate, where he arrived just intime
to see Higgins enter the Hut. He could
have recalled him even then, but, instead of
doing so, dragged himself back to his chair
in the study.

Leonard Sterne was not long in obeying
the summons.

Here I am, you see," he said, taking up a
position by the table.

Yes, Sterne, ever ready to come to my
assistance," returned the Doctor, watching
him eagerly from beneath the hand with
which he had shaded his anxious face.
What I want to tell you is this — Nellie has
got typhoid fever."

I'm very sorry to hear it. Poor girl !
Poor girl! That's a sad thing indeed. I
sincerely hope it is not serious."

*' No ; I'm thankful to say, Fogge seems to
think lightly of the case."

Then there is no reason to be down-hearted,
my old friend. She is young and
strong, and typhoid is a mere pigmy compared

with " He broke off suddenly and casta

startled look at the Doctor, who shivered.
It was in low grave tones that he added,
The pupils must be told, of course."

The old man looked unutterably wretched.
He had foreseen this as surely as the Sovereign
foresees the general policy that will be adopted
when she sends for a new minister, and yet
he had clung desperately to the hope that
Sterne would propose some way of reconciling
duty and inclination.

There is no help for it, I suppose ? " he
faltered.

Surely not," said Sterne with surprise.

The Doctor made a gesture of impatience.
In the petulant impulse of the moment, he
turned angrily upon the man who decided in
this cool unquestionable way that he was
bound to effect his own ruin. It was, he felt,

an easy thing for another to do. But before
he was able to speak, Sterne went on very
gently—

It is hard for you, I know, old friend —
terribly hard. I'm sure you won't accuse me
of thinking too lightly of your troubles, and,
remember, we shall all suffer, not only on
your account but also on our own. Still,
there is no need to despair. Only a few of
the pupils will go, I dare say, and they will
return when we get a clean bill of health."

'' Yes," said the Doctor wearily, " it must
be done. You do it, Sterne — I can't. Tell
them the first thing tomorrow morning."

Yery well. I'll see Fogge first, and take
care that no exaggerated statement gets
about."

Thank you, Sterne, thank you. And
now good night. I'm very tired."

Sterne went away with a heavy heart. It
seemed hard the vessel should have weathered
the gale, only to sink in the calm water
beyond. In spite of his cheery words, he
considered this not unlikely.

Next morning, after a hasty breakfast, be
bad an interview with the surgeon, who accompanied
him for a walk through the viUnge.
Every one they met, they informed of the
two cases of typhoid fever. It was better todo
this, Sterne thought, than to make a
formal announcement in the various class-rooms,
which would probably convey an
exaggerated idea of the danger. He was
speaking, he said, on behalf of the Doctor,
who felt he was thereby only performing an
act of duty. Mr. Fogge added that, so far ashe
could see, there was no cause for fear.

Most of the pupils telegraphed home and
awaited the result with great excitement.
They were not long kept in suspense. About
noon messages began to arrive, ordering the
recipients to quit the plague-stricken spot at
once, and to flee to their terrified parents.
Some, however, were prudently instructed to
go through a course of quarantine before
venturing near anybody related to them, but
these were always younger sons.

Before evening not a single eldest son was

left in Middleton. They received the most
urgent pitiful telegrams, some containing
information about the best disinfectants
and matters of a similar nature.

The scare was aggravated by two causes :
firstly, some of the pupils had blunderingly
put " typhus " instead of '' typhoid " in their
telegrams ; secondly, distrust of the Doctor.
People are very shy of being deceived a
second time. As he had deceived them once
in order to retain his pupils, they thought it
very likely that he was doing so again,
especially as he had the same incentive.
Some sort of fever having broken out in the
village, he could not very well hide the fact,
but he could easily mislead outsiders as to its
true nature. In short, many felt that what
the Doctor chose to call typhoid was in reality
typhus, and, if only as a precautionary
measure, sent for their sons. Doubtless he
had only himself to blame for this, and yet
he is surely to be pitied, for it was the turning
over of a new leaf that had brought about
the disaster.

For the first time within the memory of
those who knew him, he did not stir out all
day. The procession of vehicles driving away
from the village was too like a funeral, so far
as he was concerned. He would not even go
near a window whence it might be seen. Ashe
had instructed Sterne to give out the
money required for travelling expenses,
there was fortunately nothing for him to do.
If there had been, it is doubtful whether lie
would have had enough energy to do it, he
was so sadly altered.

When Sterne called in the evening, the
poor old man was shivering over a fire which
the watchful Higgins had lighted in the
study. He looked up without any show of
interest and asked feebly —

How many are left ? "

Sterne was so shocked at his appearance
that for the moment he was unable to speak.

*' No, no, I don't mean that," said the
Doctor, stretching out his hand to Sterne,
whose silence he had misunderstood. " Pray,
don't think I blame you ; I don't indeed. I

trust my action would have been the same,
even without your advice. If there is any
fault, it is my own, and " — he spoke fretfully
yet with a sense of relief at having a scapegoat
— 'other people's stupidity."

They will be wiser in a day or two,"
Sterne said eagerly.

The Doctor shook his head. '' How many
are left?" he repeated.

Not as many as

'' But the exact number ? "

Nineteen."

Put np the shutters, Sterne," said the
Doctor quietly. Though his voice faltered,
his expression was resolute enough.

But " gasped Sterne in dismay.

'' Pack every pupil out of the place in the
morning. Pay the tutors up to the end of
the term : all except Dubarri, who for his
kindness to Arnold shall live at the Hive.
My ' coaching ' days are over, Sterne. If I
am to lose my teeth, they shall be knocked
out by a single blow, and not drawn one by
one. Clear the whole lot out of the village

VOL. III. K

tomorrow as soon as possible. And you, my
friend " — his voice trembled and he looked up
with dimmed eyes — " will you stay with fine
to the end ? You shall have the living when
I go. You won't have long to wait."

Sterne could only grasp the old man's
hand. He made an effort to speak, but not a
word would come from his parched throat.
If he had been capable of argument, he
would not have attempted it. The thing
was settled.

The morning saw the departure of the
tutors and the rest of the pupils. There was
no laughter or music this time ; even Mr.
Jostler had no small suggestion to offer ; they
all went in gloomy silence. The weather
happened to be wet, and this added to the
general depression. Tattlemaine, who was
usually a great talker, had not a word to say
for himself. Heavisides was the last to leave
the village. Though he carried his banjo
under his arm, he made no attempt to play
it, and looked even more miserable than his
companions. Considering their fondness for

noise, their silence on this occasion was a
very touching tribute of their sympathy with
the Doctor.

A few words will tell all that remains to
be told.

The Doctor's life was saved by his anxiety
for Nellie. He was always doing something
for her ; he brought a whole battalion of
doctors to see her ; and whenever a new
delicacy was suggested, he started off to get
it. To the end, he believed in doing things
himself. When her recovery was ensured,
there were several cases of typhoid fever
scattered about the parish, and his attention
being sedulously directed to them by that
best of friends, Leonard Sterne, he gradually
awakened to the fiict that, if he had lost one
occupation, he had found another in parochial
work. His sufferings having deepened and
enlarged his sympathies, he grew indefatigable
in hunting out and, as his wealth enabled him
to do, alleviating cases of distress, whereas
in former times he used to wait for them

to be brought to him. If in some things,
especially in buying or selling a cob, he
shows a little of the old spirit, it is only
natural.

Leonard Sterue and his wife remained at
the Hut, which he is to exchange for the
Rectory upon the Doctor's death. Tt need
scarcely be said he hopes it will be a longtime
before that happens. He is very happy
where he is. His work is comparatively
light, his salary undiminished, and he is
among friends. Though he has occasional
tifis with the people's churchwarden, Mr.
Pike, whose collars are more highly starched
than ever, he often declares he would not
give up his post for a bishopric.

Hebe and Arnold are living at Ferndale,
and of them it may be said that '" the grey
mare is the better horse." She has developed
into '' a managing woman," able to twist her
big husband round her little finger. Farming
agrees with him because there is no horrid
bustle about potatoes and cabbages — they do
everything slowly and in order. Still, he is

not incapable of exertion, for there is scarcely
a meet of the Stilbury Harriers that he does
not attend, and when, as often happens, a tough
old hill hare takes a straight line for the top
of Camelback, it is tolerably hard work for
man and horse. Two or three times a week
the Doctor rides over to Ferndale, and Arnold
is almost as assiduous in visiting the Rectory.
If the affection between father and son was
of tardy growth, it flourishes all the more
strongly now.

M. Dubarri continues to reside at the Hive,
where he finds life a trifle dull. His chief dissipation
is an occasional game of whist with
the retired officers and old maids, who, cats
and all, have once more begun to occupy the
creeper-clad cottages. To the villagers, he is
a great source of amusement. He loves to
fight his battles over again, and is considered
in some quarters a very bloodthirsty old
fellow indeed. His Invaluable Chimney-pot
Company is still in the air. The advertisements
brought several answers, it is true, but
they were all from impecunious gentlemen

offering to act as directors in return for a few
shares and five guineas for each board meeting
they attended. He rejected these offers
with scorn, and is still living in hopes of
making a fortune.

The marriage of Lord Ernest Plantagenet
and Mildred Strathclyde at a fashionable
London church was shortly afterwards
followed by another at the parish church of
Puddleton, and a great fete-day it was when
Philip and Nellie were made man and wife.
The only wonder was that the bells were not
pulled out of the old tower, for some people
are never happy unless they are making a
noise. Nellie's illness was a terrible trial to
Philip. For the first time, he found himself
in the presence of a danger which cast its
dark shadow over his young life, while he
was utterly powerless. It toned him down
as nothing else could have done ; in fact, it
made a man of him.

At the Doctor's request, he gave up his
Government appointment, and he and Nellie
are now living at the Manor, Mrs. Strathclyde

having moved to the old Manor-house
in accordance with her husband's will.

If trouble be an antidote against trouble,
the married life of the young couple should
be a happy one ; and so far as mutual love,
many friends, and every worldly comfort are
concerned, their lines have certainly been cast
in pleasant places.

THE END.

LONDON : PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND Sons, LIMITED,
STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.

Imported by Messrs. Sampson Low & Co. can

be had on applicant m.

St. DunstaiCs House, Fettsf Lane, Fleet Street, London,
September, 1 888.

% Selection from tlje Sis^t of ^Soofts;

PUBLISHED EY

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEA RLE, & Livingston,

LIMITED.

ALPHABETICAL LIST.
Abbott. C) Poaetquissings Chronicle. vos. 6d,

Waste Land Wanderings. Crown 8vo, yj-. 6d.

Abbey ( W. de JV.) and Cunningham. Pioneers of the Alps.

With photogravure portraits of guides. Imp. 8vo, gilt top, 2.\s.
Ada?n (G. Mercer) and ]Vethe?'ald. An Algonquin Maiden.

Crown 8vo, adams
{C- K.) Manual of Historical Literature. Cr. 8vo, 12^. 6d.
Agassiz (A.) Three Cruises of the Blake. Illustrated. 2 vols.,

8vo, 42J.
Alcott. Works of the late Miss Louisa May Alcott : —

Eight Cousins. Illustrated, 2s. ; cloth gilt, 3^. 6d.

Jack and Jill. Illustrated, 2s.; cloth gilt, y. ct.

Jo's Boys. 5j.

Jimmy's Cruise in the Pinafore, Sc. Illustrated, cloth, 2s. ; gilt edges,
35. 6d.

Little Men. Double vol., 2s.; cloth, gilt edges, 3J. 6cf.

Little Women, is. ") I vol., cloth, 2s. ; larger ed., gilt

Little Women Wedded, is. j edges, 3,f. 6d.

Old-fashioned Girl. 2s. ; cloth, gilt edges, y. 6d.

Rose in Bloom. 2s. ; cloth gilt, 3^. 6d.

Silver Pitchers. Cloth, gilt edges, 3^. 6d.

Under the Lilacs. Illustrated, 2s.; cloth gilt, Sword:

a Story of Experience, is. ") I vol., cloth, gilt

Its Sequel, " Beginning Again." is. ) edges, 3^-. 6d.

Alden ( W. Z.) Adventures of Jimmy Brown Written by himself

Illustrated. Small crown 8vo, cloth, 2s.
Aldrich {T. B.) Friar /ero??ie's Beautiful Book, c^c. ^s. dd.
Afford (lady Marian) Needlework as Art. With over 100

Woodcuts, Photogravures, &c. Royal 8vo, dis. ; large paper, 845-.
Amateur Angler's Days in Dove Dale : Three Weeks' Holiday

in 1884. By E. M. \s. 6d. ; boards, is. ; large paper, ^s.

A

Andersen. Fairy Tales. An entirely new Translation. With

over 500 Illustrations by Scandinavian Artists. Small 4to, ds.
Anderson {}¥.') Pictorial Arts of Japan. With 80 full-page

and other Plates, 16 of them in Colours. Large imp. 4to, ;^8 %s. (in

four folio parts, £1 2s. each) ; Artists' Proofs, 2^12 12s.
Angler's Strange Experiences fan). By Cotswold Isis. With

numerous Illustrations, 4to, 5^. New Edition, 3^. 6d.
Angling. See Amateur, "British," "Cutcliffe," "Fennel,"

"Afford," "Hamilton," 'martin," " Oris," *' Penned," " Print,"

"Senior," "Stevens," "Theakston," "Walton," "Wells," and

« Willis-Bund."
Annals of the Life of Shakespeare, from the most recent authorities.

Fancy boards, 2s.
Annesley (C.) Standard Opei^a Glass. Detailed Plots of So

Operas. Small 8vo, sewed, is. 6d.
Antipodes Notes, collected on a Nine Months' Tour round the

World. By Wanderer, Author of "Fair Diana," Crown 8vo, 7^. dd.
Appleton. European Guide. 2 Parts, 8vo, 10s. each.
Armytage thon. Mrs) Wars of Victoria's Reign, ^s.
Art Edification. See " Biographies'" ^* Dangers," " Illustrated

Text Books," "Mollett's Dictionary'*
Artistic Japan. Illustrated with Coloured Plates. Monthly.

Royal 4to, 2x.
Attwell prof) The Italian Masters. Crown 8vo, 3^-. dd.
Audsley {G. A.) Handbook of the Organ. Top edge gilt, 42^. ;

large paper, 84J'.
Ornamental Arts of Japan. 90 Plates, 74 in Colours

and Gold, with General and Descriptive Text. 2 vols., folio, ;i^ 1 5 15^. ;

in specially designed leather, £22^ 2s.

The Art of Chron-Lithography. Coloured Plates

and Text. Folio, d^^s.

and Tomlinson. Lvoiy and Wood Carvings of Japan.

84J. Artists' proofs (100), i68j-.
Auej'bach {B.) Brigitta. (B. Tauchnitz Collection.) 2s.

On the Heights. 3 vols., ds.

Spinoza. 2 vols., imo, 4^.

JDADDELE V (S.) Tchay and Chianti. Small Svo, 5^.

Baldwin james) Story of Siegfried. 6^

Stony of the Golden Age, Illustrated by Howard

Pyle. Crown Svo, 6f.

Baldwin (^JanicS) Story of Roland. Crown 8vo, ds.

Sanford {A. J.) Turbans and Tails. Sketches in the Unromantic

East. Crown 8vo, yj. 6d.
Barlow alfred) Weaving by Hand and by Power. With

several hundred Illustrations. Third Edition, royal 8vo. £i ^s.
Barlow {P. TV.) Kaipara.^ Experiences of a Settler in N. New

Zealand. Illust., comm 8vo, ds.

Barrow {J.) Mountain Ascents in Cumberland and West moreland.

Crown Svo, ']s. 6d. ; new edition, ^s.
Bassett {F. S.) Legciids and Superstitions of the Sea. "js. 6d.

THE BAYARD SERIES.

Edited by the late J. Hain Friswell.
Comprising Pleasure Books of Literature produced in the Choicest Style.

"We can hardly imagine better books for boys to read oi for men to ponder
over." — Times.

Price 2S.6d. each Vohwie, complete in itself, flexible cloth extra, gilt edges,
with silk Headbands and Registers.

The Story of the Chevalier Bayard.

Joinville's St. Louis of France.

The Essays of Abraham Cowley.

Abdallah. By Edward Laboullaye.

Napoleon, Table-talk and Opinions.

"Words of Wellington.

Johnson's Tassels. With Notes.

Hazlitt's Round Table.

The Religio Medici, Hydriotaphia,

&c. By Sir Thomas Browne, Kent.
Coleridge's Christened, &c. With

Preface by Algerian C. Swinburne.
Ballad Poetry of the Affections. By

Robert Buchanan.

Lord Chesterfield's Letters, Sentences,
and Maxims. With Essay
by Sainte-veuve.

The King and the Commons. Cavalier
and Puritan Songs.

Vathek. By William Beckford.

Essays in Mosaic. By Ballantyne.

My Uncle Toby ; his Story and
his Friends, By P. Fitzgerald.

Reflections of Rochefoucauld.

Socrates : Memoirs for English
Readers from Xenophon's Memorabilia,
By Edw. Levied.

Prince Albert's Golden Precepts.

A Case containing 12 Volumes, price 31^. 6d ; or the Case separately, price 35. dd.

Barnes canon) Hymns and other Verses. Crown Svo, sewed,

Is', cloth, IS. 6d.
Beaugrand {C.) Walks Abroad of Vivo Young Naturalists.

By D. Sharp. Illust., Svo, 7j. dd.
Beecher {H. W.) Authentic Biography, and Diary. [Preparing
Belike and Britons. Child's Voice : its Treatment with regard

to After Development, Small Svo, 3^'. (yd.
Beyschlag. Female Costume Figures of various Centu?ie$. 12

reproductions of pastel designs in portfolio, imperial. 2\s,
Bick-^.rsteth bishop E. H.) Clergyman in his Home. ^.^
' — Evangelical Churchmanship. \s.

A 2

Bickersteth (bishop E. H.) From Year to Year: Original
Poetical Pieces. Small post 8vo, 3J-. bd. ; roan, 6s. and 5^.; calf or
morocco, los. 6d.

— T/ie Master's Home Call. 20th Thous. 3 2 mo, cloth

gilt, is.

The Master s Will. A Funeral Sermon preached on

the Death of Mrs. S. Gurney Buxton. Sewn, 6d. ; cloth gilt, is.

T/ie Reef, and other Parables. Crown 8vo, 2j". 6^.

Shadow of the Rock. Select Religious Poetry. 2s. 6d.

The Shadowed Horne and the Light Beyond, ^s,

Bigelow {Johii) France aid the Confederate Navy. An Enters
national Episode. 7^'. dd.

Biographies of the Great Artists illustrated). Crown 8vo,
emblematical binding, 3j'. 6d. per volume, except where the price is given.

Claude le Lorrain, by Owen J. Duller
Correggio, by M. E. Seaton. 2s. 6d.
Delia Robbia and Cellini. 2s. 6d.
Albrecht Diirer, by R. F. Heath.
Figure Painters of Holland.
FraAngelicOjMasacciOjandBotticelli.
Fia Bartolommeo, Albertinelli, and

Andrea del Sarto.
Gainsborough and Constable.
Ghiberti and Donatello, 2s. 6d.
Giotto, by Parry Quilter.
Hans Holbein, by Joseph Randall.
Hogarth, by Austin Dobson,
Landseer, by F. G. Stevens.
Lawrence and Romney, by Lord

Ronald Gower. 2s. 6d.

Mantegna and Franca.
Messenger, by J. W. Mollett. 2s. 6d.
Michelangelo Buonarotti,by Clement.
Murillo, by Ellen E. Minor. 2s. 6d,
Overbear, by J. B. Atkinson.
Raphael, by N. Dangers.
Rembrandt, by J. W. Mollett.
Reynolds, by F. S. Pulling.
Rubens, by C. W. Kept.
Tintoretto, by W. R. Osier.
Titian, by R. F. Heath.
Turner, by Cosmo Workhouse.
Vandyke and Hals, by P. R.

Head.
Velasquez, by E. Stowe.
Vernet rend Delaroche, by J. Rees.
Watteau, by J. W. Mollett. 2s. 6d.

Leonardo da Vinci.

Little Masters of Germany, by W. ' Wilkie, by'J.'W. Mollett.

B. Scott. I

Bird {F. J.) American Practical Dye 7^ s Companion. 8vo, 425.

{H. F.) Chess Practice. 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Black robert) Horse Racing in France : a History. 8vo, 14X.
Black ( Win.) Novels. See " Low's Standard Library."

Strange Advent ewes of a House-Boat. 3 vols., '^\s. 6d.

Ii Far Lochaber. 3 vols., crown 8vo. , 3ij'. 6d.

Blackburn charles F) Hints ont Catalogue Titles arid Index

Entries, with a Vocabulary of Terms and Abbreviations, chiefly from

Foreign Catalogues. Royal 8vo, 14^.
Blackburn {He7iry) Breton Folk. With 171 Illust. by Randolph

Caldecott. Imperial Svo, gilt edges, 2 1 j.; plainer binding, los. 6d.
p- Py7'e7iees. Illustrated by Gustave Dor corrected

tc 1881. Crown 8vo, 7j. 6d. See also Caldecott.

Blackmore {R. £>.) Lima Doom. Edition deluge. Crown 4to,
very numerous Illustrations, cloth, gilt edges, 31^-. dd.; parchment,
uncut, top gilt, 35^. j new issue, plainer, lis. ; small post 8vo, 6j.

Novels. See " Low's Standard Library."

Springhaven. Illust. by Parsons and Barnard. Sq.

8vO, I2J-.

Bailie (^Williani) Hoi to get Strong and hoi to Stay so.
Rational, Physical, Gymnastic, <S:c., Exercises. Illust., sm.postSvo, ^s.
Sound Bodies for our Boys and Girls. 161110, 2s. 6d.

Berwick. British Colonies. Asia, i^. ; Africa, \s. ; America,

\s. ; Australasia, is. One vol., cloth, 5^-.
Banquet rev. C.) Blossoms from the King's Garden : Sermons

for Children. 2nd Edition, small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6^.

Jehoshaphat ; or. Sunlight arid Clouds. \s.

Boussenard {L.) Crusoe of Guiana. Gilt, 2S. 6d. ; gilt ed . 3^. 6d,

Gold-seekers. Sequel to the above. Illust. imo, 5^.

Boyesen {F.) Story of Norway. Illustrated, sm. 8vo, 7^. 6d.
Boyesen (I/. H.) Modern Vikings : Stories of Life arid Sport

in Norland. Cr. Svo, ds.
Boss Froissart. King Arthur, Knightly Legends of Wales,

Percy. See Lanier.
Bradshaw {/.) Net Zealand of To toy, 1884-87. 8vo.
Brant {IV. T.) A?wnal and Vegetable Fats and Oils. 244

Illust., Svo, 35^.
■ Manufacture of Soap and Candles, luiih many For J7iu las,

Illust., Svo, 35J.

Metallic Alloys. Chiefly from the German of Krupp

and Wilberger. Crown Svo, \2s. 6d.
Bright {fohn) Public Letters. Crown Svo, ']s. 6d.

Brisse {Baivii) Menus ['^dd). A ;;//;///, in French and English,
for every Day in the Year. 2nd Edition. Crown Svo, 5^.

British Fisheries Directory. Small 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Brittany. See Blackburn.

Browne {G. Lennox) Voice Use and Stimulants. Sm. Svo, 35. dd.

arid Belike remit) Voice, Song, and Speech. N, ed., 51.

Bryant ( W. C.) and Gay {S. LI.) History of the United States.
4 vols., royal Svo, profusely Illustrated, cos.

Bryce rev. Professor) Manitoba. Illust. Crown Svo, ^s. 6d.

Short LLisiory of the Canadian People. ']s. 6d.

Bur?taby capt.) On Horseback through Asia Minor. 2 vols.,
8vo, 38J. Cheaper Edition, i vol., crown Svo, ioj-. 6d.

Burney mrs. F.) High Alp in Winter; or, Moimtaineerijig
in Search of Health. With Illustrations, &c., 14J. See also Main.

Burnley (/.) History of Wool aid Welcoming. Illust. 8vo, 21 J.

Burton sir jR. F.) Early, Public, and Private Life. Edited
by F. HiTCHMAN. 2 vols., 8vo, 36^.

Butler sir W. F.) Campaign of the Cataracts. Illust., 8vo, 185.

Invasion of England, told twenty years after. 2S. 6d.

Fed Cloud; or, the Solitary Sioux. Imperial 16 mo,

numerous illustrations, gilt edges, 3^.6^/.; plainer binding, 2J. 6^.

The Great Lone Laid ; Fed Fiver Expedition, js. 6d.

The Wild North Land; the Story of a Winter Journey

with Doq-s across Northern North America. 8vo, i8j. Cr. Svo, 7^. 6^.

sable {G. W.) Bonaventure : A Prose Pastoral of Acadian

^ Louisiana. Sm. post Svo, 5^.

Cadogan lady A.) Illustrated Games of Patience. Twenty-four
Diagrams in Colours, with Text. Fcap. 4to, 125. 6d.

-New Games of Patience. Coloured Diagrams, 4to, \2s.^d.

Caldecott randolph) Memoir. By Henry Blackburn. With

170 Examples of the Artist's Work. 14^-.; large paper, 2\s.
California. See Nordhoff.

Callan {H.) Wanderings on Wheel and o?i Foot. Cr. Svo, is.dd,
Campbell lady Colin) Book of the Funning Brook : and of

Still Waters. 5^.
Canadian People : Short History. Crown Svo, 7^. 6d.
Carleton ( Will) Farm Ballads, Fanji Festivals, and Farm

Legends. Paper boards, \s. each; i vol., small post Svo, 3^. dd.

City Ballads. Illustrated, 123-. dd. New Ed. (Rose

Library), imo, \s.
Carnegie {A.) American Four-iii-Hand in Britain. Small

4to, Illustrated, vos. 6d. Popular Edition, paper, is.

• Found the World. Svo, 10s. Gd.

• Triumphant Democracy. 6s. ; also is. 6d. and is.

Chairman's Handbook. By R. F. D. Palsgrave. 5th Edit., 2s.
Changed Cross, dec. Religious Poems. imo, 2s. 6d. ; calf, 6s.
Chaplin {J. G.) Three Principles of Book-keeping. 2s. 6d.
Charities 0/ London. See Low's.

Charnock {F. S.) Practical Notes on Etching. New Ed. Svo,
\.os. 6d.

Chess. See Bird (H. E.).

Children's Praises. Hymns for Sunday-schools and Services,

Compiled by Louisa H. H. Tristan, d^d.
Choice Editions of Choice Books. 2S. 6d. each. Illustrated by
C. W. Cope, R.A., T. Keswick, R.A., E. Duncan, Birket
Foster, J. C. Worsley, A.R.A., G. Hicks, R. Redgrave, R.A.,
C. Stonehouse, F. Taylor, G. Thomas, H. J. Townshend,
E. H. Werner, Harrison Weir, &c.

Milton's L' Allegro.

Poetry of Nature. Harrison Weir.

Rogers' (Sam.) Pleasures of Memory.

Shakespeare's Songs and Sonnets.

Bloomfield's Farmer's Boy.
Campbell's Pleasures of Hope.
Coleridge's Ancient Mariner.
Goldsmith's Deserted Village.
Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield.
Gray's Elegy in a Churchyard.
Neat's Eve of St. Agnes.

Tennyson's May Queen.
Elizabethan Poets.
Wordsworth's Pastoral Poems.

Such works are a glorious beatification for a poet." — Athenian.

Chreiman (Bliss) Physical Culture of Women, A Lecture at the

Parker Museum. Small 8vo, is.
Christ in Song. By Philip Chaff. New Ed, gilt edges, ds.
Chromo Lithography. See Audsley.
Cochran ( W.) Pen and Pencil in Asia Minor. lust., 8vo, 21^.

Collingwood hilary) Under the Meteor Flag. The Log of a

Midshipman. Illustrated, small post 8vo, gilt, 3^. 6^.; plainer-zs. 6d.

Voyage of the ^^ Aurora." Gilt, 3^. 6d. ; plainer, 2s. 6d,

Cook (Button) Book of the Play. New Edition, i vol., 3^. 6d.

On the Stage: Studies. 2 vols., 8vo, cloth, 245-.

Cow en {/os., M.P.) Life and Speeches. 8vo, \^s.

Cover (W.) Poetical Works: A Concordance. Roy. 8vo, 21s.

Dozens (P.) American Yachts. 27 Plates, 22 x 28 inches.

Proofs, ;^2i ; Artist's Proofs, ;^3i los.
Crew (B,/.) Practical Treatise on Petroleum. Illust., 8vo, 2 crouch
{A. P.) On a Suff-bound Coast. Crown 8vo, 7^. 6d.
Crown Prince of Germany : a Diary. 2s. 6d.
Cudworth ( W.) Life and Correspondence of Abraham Sharp.

Illustrated from Drawings. (To Subscribers, 21s.) 26s.
Cumberland{Stuart) Thought Reader's Thoughts. Cr. 8 vo., i os. 6d.
Queen's Highway from Ocean to Ocean. 111.,, 8vo, 18^. ;

new ed., 7^. 6d.
Randall joseph) Annals of the Life and Work of Shakespeare.

With a List of Early Editions. 3^. (>d. ; large paper, 5^-.; also 2s.

Remarkable Bindings in the British Museum.

Curtis ( W. E.) Capitals of Spanish America Illust., roy. 8vo.
Catching (W.) Initials and Pseudofiyffis, Large 8vo, 2^s,\

second series, large 8vo, 21s.

Custer {Eiiz. B.) Tenting on the Plains; Gen. Custer in Kansas

and Texas. Royal 8vo, i?>s.
Cutcliffe {H. C ) Trout Fishing in Rapid Streams. Cr. 8 vo, 3^. 6i.

T^ALY (Airs. D.) Digging, Squatting, and Pioneering in

J~^ Northern South Australia. 8vo, \2s.

Lancers. Elementary History of Art. New ed., 360 illus.,
cr. 8vo, 2 vols. (5J-. each), gilt, vos. 6d.

Elementary History 0/ Music. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Davidson {H. C.) Old Adam ; Tale of an Army Crammer. 3
vols, crown 8vo, six. 6d.

Davis clement) Modern Whist. des.

Davis {C. T.) Bricks, Tiles, Terra Cotta, &-c. 111. 8vo, 25^-.

Manufacture of Leather. With many Illustrations. ^2s.6d,

Manufacture of Paper. 285.

Davis {G. B.) Outlines of International Law, 8vo. 105. dd,

Daividoivsky. Glue,Gclaiine, Isinglass, Cements,c^c. 8vo, i2S.()d.

Day of My Life at Eton. By an Eton Boy. imo. 2s. 6d,

Days-ICollacon : an Encyclopedia of Pivse Quotations. Imperial
8vo, cloth, 3IJ-. dd.

De Leon {E.) Under the Stars and under the Crescent. N. ed., ds.

Dethroning Shakspeare. Letters to the Daily Telegraph ; and
Editorial Papers. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Dictionary. See Tolhausen, " Technological."

Dogs iji Disease. By Ashton. Crown 8vo, yj". 6d.

Donnelly ignatius) Atlantis ; or, the Antediluvian World.
7th Edition, crown 8vo, 12s. 6d.

Ragnarok: T/ie Age of Fire and Gravel. Illustrated,

crown 8vo, 12s. 6d.

The Great Cryptogram : Francis Barons Cipher in the

so-called Shakspeare Plays. With facsimiles. 2 vols., "sos.
Dore gustave) Life and Reminiscences. By Blanche Roosevelt.
Illust. from the Artist's Drawings. Medium 8vo, 24J.
Dougall james Dallied) Shooting: its Appliances, Practice,
and Purpose. New Edition, revised with additions. Crown 8vo, 7^. 6</.

"The book is admirable in every way We wish it every success." — Globe.

"A very complete treatise Likely to take high rank as an authority on

shooting." — Daily Neiijs.

Dupre giovanni). By Frieze. With Dialogues on Art. ^s.dd.

pDMONDS {C.) Poetry of the Anti-jacobin. With rlddi-
•^-^ national matter. New ed. Illust., crown Svo.
Educational List and Directory for \ZZi-'^'^. ^s.

Educational Works published in Great Britain. A Classified
Catalogue. Third Edition, 8vo, cloth extra, 6^.

Edwards {E.) American Steam Engineer. Illust., 1 2 mo, 1 2s. 6d,

Eight Mont sis on the Argentine Gran Chaco. 8vo, 8^. dd.

Elliott {H. JV.) An Arctic Province : Alaska and the Seal
Islands. Illustrated from Drawings ; also with Maps. 16s.

Emerson {Dr. P. H.) Pictures of East Anglian Life. Ordinary
ed., 105T. ; edit, de luxe, 17 X 132, vellum, morocco back, 147J.

Naturalistic Photography for Art Students. Crown Svo.

and Goodwill. Life and Landscape on the Norfolk

Broads. Plates 12 x 8 inches, 126s.; large paper, 210s.

English Catalogue of Books. Vol. III., 1872 — 1880. Royal
8vo, half-morocco, 42^-. See also " Index."

English Etchings. Published Quarterly. 3^.6^. Vol. VI., 2 english

Philosophers. Edited by E. B. Ivan Muller, M.A.
Crown Svo volumes of 180 or 200 pp., price 3^. (>d. each.

Shaftesbury and Hutchison.
Adam Smith, by J. A. Farmer.

Francis Bacon, by Thomas Fowler.

Hamilton, by W. H. S. Monck.

Hartley and James Mill.

Esmarch {F.) LLandhook of Surgery. Translation from the

last German Edition. With 647 new Illustrations. Svo, leather, stretching.

See Charnock, and English Etchings.
Etchings modena) of Celebrated Paintings. 4to, 315. 6d.
Evans {E. A.) Songs of the Birds. Analogies of Spiritual Life.

New Ed. i:iust., 6s.
Evelyn. Life of Mrs. Godolphin. By William Harcourt,

of Dunham. ' Steel Portrait. Extra binding, gilt top, 7^. 6t/.

'Parent {G. A) Through the Kalahari Desert, Svo, 21^.

Farm Ballads Festivals, and Legends. See Carleton.
Facets edgar) A Gentleman of Leisure. \s.
Fenn {G. Nashville) Off to the Wilds: A Story for Boys.
Profusely Illustrated. Crown Svo, gilt edges, y. 6d. ; plainer, 2s. 6d.

Silver Cation. Illust., gilt ed., 35. dd. ; plainer, 2s. 6d.

Fennel greville) Book of the Poach. New Edition, 12 mo, 2s.
Fer?is. See Heath.

Field {Lf. M.) Greek Islands and Turkey after the War. Zs. 6d.
Field mrs. Horace) Anchorage. 2 vols., crown 8vo, 12s.
Fields {/.T) Yesterdays ivith Authors. New Ed., Svo, vos. 6d.
Fitzgerald {P,) Book Fancier. Cr. Svo. 5i-. j large pap. 12s. 6d.

Finding sandford) England and Canada : a Toicr. Cr. 8vo, ds,
Florence. See Yriarte.

Forward {R., Jim.) Plant Lore, Legends and Lyrics. 8vo, ici
{H. O.) Naturalist in the Eastern Archipelago. 8vo.

Is.

Foreign Countries and British Colonies. Cr. 8vo, 3^. dd. each

Australia, by J. F. Vesey Fitzgerald.
Austria, by D. Kay, F.R.G.S.
Denmark and Iceland, by E. Cette.
Egypt, by S. Lane Poole, 13. A.
France, by Miss M. Roberts.
Germany, by S. Baring-Gould.
Greece, by L. Sergeant, Bea.

Foreign Etchings. From Paintings by Rembrandt, d^'r., 63^.;

india proofs, 147 J".
Fortunes made in Business. Vols. I., II., III. ici'. each.
Hampton {Afa7y') Journal, Letters, and Anecdotes. 8vo, 145.
Franc maud Jeanne). Small post 8vo, uniform, gilt edges : —

Japan, by S. Mossman.
Peru, by Clements R. Markham.
Russia, by W. R. Merrill, M.A,
Spain, by Rev. Wentworth Webster.
Sweden and Norway, by Woods.
West Indies, by C. H. Eden,
F.R.G.S.

Emily's. Choice. 5^.
Hall's Vineyard. 4^.
John's Wife : A Story of Life in

South Australia. marian
; or, The Light of Some

One's Home. silken
Cords and Iron Fetters. tinto
the Light. 4J.

Vermont Vale. 5^.

Minnie's Mission. 4^.

Little Mercy. 4^.

Beatrice Melton's Discipline. 4^.

No Longer a Child. golden

Gifts. 4J-.

Two Sides to Every Question. 4^.

Minister of Ralston. 4^.

Also a Cheap Edition, in cloth extra, is. 6d. each.
Franlz^s Ranch ; or. My Holiday in the Rockies. A Contribution
to the Inquiry into What we are to Do with our Boys. 55-.
Freeman (J.) Lights and Shadows of Melbourne Life, Cr. 8vo.

French. See Julien and Porcher.

Fresh Woods and Pastures Neu. By the Author of " An

Amateur Angler's Days." is. 6d.; large paper, tes. ; new ed., is.
Froissart. See Lanier.
Fuller edward) Fellow Travellers. 35'. dd.
■ Dramatic Year 1887-88 /V^ the United States, With the

London Season, by W. Archer. Crown 8vo.

r^ANE {D. N.) Nev South Wales and Victoria in 1885. 5^.

Gaspar [Countess A. de) Stony Fields aid Shady Woods. 6s,
Geary grattan) Burma after the Conquest. 75*. dd.
Gentle Life (Queen Edition). 2 vols, in i, small 4to, 61,

II

THE GENTLE LIFE SERIES.

Price ds, each ; or in calf extra, price ioj-. Gd. ; Smaller Edition, cloth
extra, 2s. 6d., except where price is named.

T/ie Gentle Life, Essays in aid of the Formation of Character.
About in the World, Essays by Author of " The Gentle Life."
Like tito Christ. New Translation of Thomas a Kempis.
Familiar Words. A Quotation Handbook. essays
by Montaigne. Edited by the Author of '' The Gentle

Life."
The Gentle Life, 2nd Series.
The Silent Hour : Essays, Original and Selected.
Half Length Portraits. Short Studies of Notable Persons.

By J. Hain Friswell.
Essays 07i English Writers, for Students in English Literature.
Other Peoples Windows. By J. Hain Friswell. 6s.
A Man's Thoughts. By J. Hain Friswell.
The Countess of Pembroke s Arcadia. By Sir Philip Sidney. 6j.

Germany. By S. Baring-Gould. Crown 8vo, 3^-. 6d.
Gibbon (C) Beyond Compare : a Story, 3 vols., cr, 8vo, 3 1 j. 6«/.

Yarmouth Coast,

Gisborne {W.) New Zealand Rulers and Statesmen. With

Portraits. Crown 8vo, *]s. 6d.
Goldsmith. She Stoops to Conquer. Introduction by Austin

DoBSON ; the designs by E. A. Abijey. Imperial 4to, 48j-.
Goode (G. Broivn) American Fishes, A Popular Treatise.

Royal 8vo, 24s.
Gordon {/. E, H., Bea. Cantab?) Four Lectures on Electric

Induction at the Royal Institution, 1878-9. Lust., square imo, 3^.

Electric Lighting. Illustrated, 8 vo, 18^.

Physical Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism. 2nd

Edition, enlarged, with coloured, full-page, (Sic., Illust. 2 vols. , 8vo, 42^.

Electricity for Schools. Illustrated. Crown 8vo, 5^.

Gouffe flies) Royal Cooke Book. New Edition, with plates

in colours, Woodcuts, &c., 8vo, gilt edges, 42J-,
Domestic Edition, half-bound, ioj-. 6d.

Grant general, U.S.) Personal Memoirs. 2 vols., 8vo, zZs,

Illustrations, Maps, &c. 2 vols., 8vo, 28j-.
ijreat Artists. See " Biographies."

Great Musicians, Edited by F. Suffer. A Series of

Biographies, crown 8vo, 2t^. each : —
Bach, Mendelssohn. Schubert.

English Church Com Mozart. Schumann.

posers. By Barrett. Purcell. Richard Wagner.

Handel. Rossini. Weber.

Haydn.

Groves {/. Percy) Yarmouth Grange. Gilt, ^s.\ plainer, 2s. 6d,
Gnizofs History of France. Translated by JR Black. In

8 vols., super-royal Bvo, cloth extra, gilt, each 245'. In cheaper

binding, 8 vols,, at los. 6c/. each.

It supplies a want which has long been felt, and ought to be in the hands of all

students of history." — Times.

• Mason's School Edition. Abridged

from the Translation by Robert Black, with Chronological Index, Historical
and Genealogical Tables, &c. By Professor Gustave Mason,
Bea. With Portraits, Illustrations, &c. i vol., 8vo, 600 pp., 5j-.

Giiyo?i {Mde.) Life. By Upham. 6th Edition, crown 8vo, 65-.

Stafford {F. M.) Floating Flies, and how to Dress them,
"*■ coloured plates. 8vo, 15^. ; large paper, 30^.

Dry Fly-fishing in Theory and Practice. Col. Plates.

Hall (IV. W.) How to Live Long; or, 1408 Maxims. 2s.
Hamilton (E.) Recollections of Fly fishing for Salmon, Trout,

and Grayling. With their Habits, Haunts, and History. Illust., 6j. j

large paper, vos. 6d.
Ha?tds(T.) Numerical Exercises in Chemist jy. Cr. Bvo, 2s. 6d^

and 2s.; Answers separately, 6d.
Hardy (Thomas). See Low's Standard Novels.
Ha?'e (j. S. ClarJz) Laid of Contracts. Bvo, 265.
Harley {T.) Southward LIo I to the State of Georgia. $s.
Harper's Magazine. Published Monthly. 160 pages, fully

Illustrated, \s. Vols., half yearly, I. — XVI., super-royal 8vo, Zs. 6d,

each.

' Harper's Magazine ' is so thickly sown with excellent illustrations that to count

them would be a work of time ; not that it is a picture magazine, for the engravings

illustrate the text after the manner seen in some of our choicest editions deluge." —

Si. James's Gazette.

It is so pretty, so big, and so cheap. . . . An extraordinary shillingsworth—

160 large octavo pages, with over a score of articles, and more than three times as

many illustrations." — Edinburgh Daily Review.

An amazing shilhngsworth . . . combining choice literature of both nations"—

Nonconformist.

Harper's Young People. Vols. I.-IV., profusely Illustrated
with woodcuts and coloured plates. Royal 4to, extra binding, each
*]s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 2,s. Published Weekly, in wrapper, id. ; Annual
Subscription, post free, 6^. 6d. ; Monthly, in wrapper, with coloured
plate, 6d. ; Annual Subscription, post free, "js. 6d.

Harrison mary) Skilful Cook. New edition, crown 8vo, ^s.
Hartshorn {H.) Household Medicine, Surgery, 6^<r. 8vo. 21J.
Hatton frank) North Borneo. Map and Illust., &c. isis
joseph) Journalists London : with Engravings and

Portraits of Distinguished Writers of the Day. Fcap. 4to, lis. ci.

See also Low's Standard Novels.

Hawthorne nathaniel) Life. By John R. Lowell.

Heath francis George) Fern World With Nature-printed

Coloured Plates. Crown Svo, gilt edges, \2s. 6d. Cheap Edition, 6s.
Heath gertrude). Tell us Why ? The Customs and Ceremonies

of the Church of England explained for Children. Cr. Svo, 2s. 6d.
Hermann {B.) Mutiny of the Ship " Leander." Gilt edges,

3J. ct.; plainer, 2s. 6d.
Henty. Winning his Spurs. Cr. Svo, 3J-. 6d. ; plainer, 2s. 6d.

Cornet of Horse. Cr. Svo, 3^-. 6d.; plainer, 2s. 6d.

Jack Archer. Illust. 3^. 6^. ; plainer, 2s. 6d.

Henty {Rich?no?id) Australian : My Early Life. $s.
Herrick robert) Poetry. Preface by Austin Dobson. With

numerous Illustrations by E. A. Abbey. 4to, gilt edges, ^2s.
Henley mrs. E.) Native Flowers of New Zealand. Chromic

from Drawings. Three Parts, to Subscribers, 63J.
Hewitt james a:) Church History in South Africa, 1 795-1848,

imo, 5 J.
Hicks {E. S) Our Boys : How to Enter the Merchant Service, ^s.

Yachts, Boats and Canoes. Illustrated. Svo, 10^. dd.

Henchman. Public Life of the Earl of Beacon sf eld. 35-. 6d.
Hoey mrs. Cashel) See Low's Standard Novels.
Hofnann. Scenes fro fat the Life of our Saviour. 12 mounted

plates, 12x9 inches, 21s.
Holder {C F.) Marvels of Animal Life. Illustrated. 8j. 6d.

Ivory King: Elephant and Allies. Illustrated. Zs.dd.

Living Lights : Phosphorescent Animals and Vegetables.

Illustrated. Svo, %s. Sd.
Holmes {O. W>j Before the Curfew, o^^c. Occasional Poems. 5 J.

Last Leaf : a Holiday Volume. immortal

Antipathy, hs. 6d. ; also 2s. ; paper, jour

Hundred Day sin Fur ope. 6s. Large Paper, unpoetical

Works. 2 vols., imo, gilt tops, vos. 6d.

Homer, Iliad L.-XLL., done into English Verse, By Arthur

S. Way. gs.

Odyssey, done into English Verse. By A. S. Way.

Fcap 4to, 7j. 6d.

Hopkins man ley) Treatise on the Cardinal Numbers, 2S. 6d.
More mrs.) To Lake Tanganyika in a Bath Chair. Cr. 8vo,

7^. dd.
Toward blanche JV,) Tony the Maid ; a Novelette. Illust.,

imo, 3J-. 6^.
Worth fil. LL.) Mammoth and the Flood. 8vo, i8^.
ILuet {C. B.) Land of Rubens. For Visitors to Belgium. By

Van Dam. Crown Svo, 3^-. 6^/.
Hugo {V.) Notre Dame. With coloured etchings and 150

engravings. 2 vol-;., 8vo, vellum cloth, 30^.
Hundred Greatest Men the). 8 portfolios, 21s. each, or 4 vols.,

half-morocco, gilt edges, 10 guineas. New Ed., I vol., royal Svo, dis.
Hutchinson {T.) Diary and Letters. Vol. I., its. \ Vol. II., its.
Hygiene and Public Health. Edited by A. H. Buck, M.D.

Illustrated. 2 vols., royal Svo, 42^-.
Hymnal Companion to the Book of Common Prayer. By

Bishop Bickersteth. In various styles and bindings from \d. to

3 1 J-, dd. Ff'ice List and Prospects will be forivaj-ded on application.
Hymns and Tunes at St. Thomas New York. Music by G.

WrFARREy. Royal Svo, 55.

Illustrated Text-Books of Art-Education. Edited by
•* Edward J. Pointer, R.A. Illustrated, and strongly bound, 5j-.
Now ready : —

PAINTING.

Classic and Italian. By Head. | French and Spanish.
German, Flemish, and Dutch. [ English and American.

architecture.
Classic and Early Christian.
Gothic and Renaissance. By T. Roger Smith.

sculpture.
Antique : Eg-egyptian and Greek.
Renaissance and Modern. By Leader Scott.
Ltiderivick {F, A. ; Q^C.) Side Lights on the Stuart, Essays,

Illustrated, Svo.
Index to the English Catalogue, Jan., 1874, to Dec, 1880.

Royal Svo, half-morocco, is.
Inglis {Ho7i. James ; " Maori ") Our Nev Zealand Cousins.
Small post Svo, ds.

Tent Life in Tiger Land : Twelve Years a Pioneer

Planter. Col. plates, roy. Svo, iSj.

Irving {Hemy) Impressions of Ax m erica. 2 vols., 2iJ-. ; i vol., ds,

Irving { Washington). Library Edition of his Works in 27 vols.,

Copyright, with the Author's Latest Revisions. *' Geoffrey Crayon"

Edition, large square Svo. I2J'. 6c/. per vol. See also 'little Britain."

'eames (C.) Curiosities of Law and Lawyers. 8vo, 7^. dd.

Japan. See Anderson, Artistic,, Audsley, also Morse.
Jefferies richard) Amaryllis at the Fair. Small 8vo, 7^. dd.
Merton (gertrude) Key-hole Country. Illustrated. Crown 8vo,

cloth, 2s.
Johnston fit. H.) River Congo ^ from its Mouth to Boloho.

New Edition, Svo, lis.
Johnston (Z>. Liaison) Land of the Mountain L{djigdom,

Illust. , crown Svo.
Fontes {Majoj') Heroes of Industry. Biographies with Portraits.

7j. (>d.

Emigrants Friend. Guide to the U.S. Need. 2s. 6d.

Julien (F.) English Students French Examiner. 16 mo, 2s.

Conversational French Reader. imo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

French at Home and at School. Book I., Accidence, 2s.

First Lessons in Conversational French Grammar. \s,

Petites Legions de Conversation et de Grammaire. phrases

of Daily Use. Limp cloth, 6^.

• • '^ Petites Legions " aid " Phrases " in one. tes. 6d.

J^ARR {H. W. Seton) Shores acid Alps of Alaska. Svo,
-^^ i6j.
Keats. Endymion. Illust. by W. St. John Harper. Imp.

4to, gilt top, 42J-.
Kempis thomas a) Daily Text-book. Square imo, 2s. 6d.;

interleaved as a Birthday Book, 3^. cii.
Kent's Commentaries : an Abridgment for Students of American

Law. By Eden F. Thompson. vos. 6d.
Kerr {W. M.) Far Interior : Cape of Good Hope, across the

Zambesi, to the Lake Regions. Illustrated from Sketches, 2 vols.

Svo, 32J-.
Kershaw (S. JV.) Protestants from France in their English

Home. Crown Svo, 6j.
King henry) Savage London; Riverside Characters 6^^.

Crown Svo, 6^.
Kingston {IV. H. G.) Works. Illustrated, imo, gilt edges,

3^. 6d. ; plainer binding, plain edges, 2s. 6d. each.

Captain Milford, or. Our Salt

and Fresh Water Tutors.
Dick Cheveley.
Heir of Kilfinnan.

Snow-shoes and Canoes.
Two Supercargoes.
With Axe and Rifle.

Kingsley (Rose) Children of Westminster Abbey : Studies in

English History. 5 J.
Knight {E. J.) Cruise of the '' Falconer New Ed. Cr. Svo,

Knox (Col) Boy Travellers on the Congo. Ills. Cr. 8vo, 7^-. Gd,
Kufihardt {C, B,) Small Yachts : Design and Construction. 355.
Steam Yachts and Launches. Illustrated. 4tOj i6j.

T AMB charles Essays of Elia. Illustrated by C. O.
•'-^ Murray. 6j.

Za?iie?''s Works. Illustrated, crown 8vo, gilt edges, p. 6d.
each.
Boy's King Arthur.

Boy's Froissart.

Boy's Knightly Legends of Wales.

Boy's Percy: Ballads of Love and

Adventure, selected from the

Reliques."

La7isdell{B.) Through Siberia. 2 vols., 8vo, 30.?.; i vol., 10^. 6d.

Russia in Central Asia, Illustrated. 2 vols., 425-.

Through Central Asia ; Russo Afghan Frontier ^ &^c.

8v5, 12s.
Garden (W.) School Course on Bleat. Second Ed., Illust. $s.
Laurie andre) Selene Company, Limited. Crown 8vo, 7.?. Gd.
Layard mrs. Granville) Through the West Antics. Small

post SvO, 7.S. 6d.

Lea (If. C). History of the Inquisition of tu Middle Ages.

3 vols., Svo, 42J-.

Lemon (M.) Small House over the Water, aid Stories. lust.
by Cruikshank, &c. Crown Svo, 6s.

Leo XIII. : Life. By Bernard Reilly. With Steel

Portrait from Photograph, &c. Large Svo, \%s. ; edit, de luxe, 63^-.

Leonardo da VincVs Literary Works. Edited by Dr. Jean
Paul Richter. Containing his Writings on Painting, Sculpture,
and Architecture, his Philosophical Maxims, Humorous Writings, and
Miscellaneous Notes on Personal Events, on his Contemporaries, on
Literature, &c. ; published from Manuscripts. 2 vols., imperial Svo,
containing about 200 Drawings in Autotype Reproductions, and numerous
other Illustrations. Twelve Guineas.

Library of Religious Poetry. Best Poems of all Ages. Edited
by ScHAFF and Oilman. Royal Svo, liss cheaper binding, vos. Gd.

Lindsay (W. S) History of Merchant Shipping. Over 150
Illustrations, Maps, and Charts. In 4 vols,, demy Svo, cloth extra.
Vols. I and 2, impeach ; vols. 3 and 4, 145'. each. 4 vols., 50^-.

Little (Archibald J.) Through the Yang-tse Gorges: Trade and
Travel in Western China, New Edition. Svo, los. td.

Little Britain, The Spectre Bridegroom, and Legend of Sleepy

Hollow. By Washington Irving. An entirely New Edition de

luxe. Illustrated by 120 very fine Engravings on Wood, by Mr.

J. D. Cooper. Designed by Mr. Charles 6. Murray. Re-issue,

square crown 8vo, cloth, 6^.
Longfellow. Maidenhood. With Coloured Plates. Oblong

4to, 2s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 3J. 6d.
Courtship of Miles Standish. Illust. by Boughton,

&c. Imp, 4to, 2IJ-.
Nuremberg, 28 Photogravures. Ilium, by M. and x\.

Comes. 4to, 31J. dd.
Lowell {/. J?.) Vision of Sir Laiinfal. Illustrated, royal 4to, 63^.

Life of Nathaniel Hawthorne. Small post 8vo,

Loves Standard Library of Travel and Adventure. Crown 8vo,

uniform in cloth extra, 'js. 6d., except where price is given.

1. The Great Lone Land. By Major W. F. Butler, Cab.

2. The Wild North Land. By Major W. F. Butler, Cab.

3. How I found Living-stone. By H. M. Stanley,

4. Through the Dark Continent. By II. M. Stanley. 12s. 6d.

5. The Threshold of the Unknown Region. By C. R, Markham,

(4th Edition, with Additional Chapters, los. 6d.)

6. Cruise of the Challenger. By W. J, J. Spry, Ren.

7. Burney's On Horseback through Asia Minor, los. 6d.

8. Schweinfurth's Heart of Africa. 2 vols., 15^.

9. Through America. By W. G. Marshall.

10. Through Siberia. II. and unabridged, 1 0J'.6r^ By II. LansDELL.

11. From Home to Home. By Stave EV Hill.

12. Cruise of the Falcon. By E. J. Knight.

13. Through Masai Land. By Joseph Thomson.

14. To the Central African Lakes. By Joseph Thomson.

15. Queen's Highway. By Stuart Cumberland.

Lozu^s Standard Novels. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, ds. each,
unless otherwise stated,
A Daughter of Heth, By W. Black.
In Silk Attire. By W, Black.
Ailment. A Novel. By W, Black.
Lady Coverdale's Sweetheart. By W. Bl.ACK.
Sunrise, By W. Black,
Three Feathers. By William Black,
Alice Lorraine, By R, D. Blackmore.
Christowell, a Dartmoor Tale. By R, D, Blackmore.
Clara "Vaughan. By R. D. Blackmore.
Crack Powell. By R. D, Blackmore.
Cripps the Carrier. By R. D, Blackmore.
Enema; or, My Father's Sin. By R. D. Blackmore.
Lorna Done. By R. D. Blackmore. 25th Edition. ^

Mary Waverley. By R. D. Blackmore.
Tommy Upmore. By R. D. Blackmore.

Lords Standard Novels — contained.
Bonaventure. By G. W. Cable.
An English Squire. By Miss Coleridge,
Some One Else. By Mrs. B. M. Croaker.
Under the Stars and Stripes. By E. De Leon.
Halfway. By Miss Bentham-Edwards.
A Story of the Drag-invades. By Rev, E. GlLLiAT, M.A.
A Laodicean. By Thomas Hardy.
Far from the Madding Crowd. By Thomas Hardy.
Mayor of Casterbridg-e. By Thomas Hardy.
Pair of Blue Eyes. By Thomas Hard v.
Return of the Native. By Thomas Hardy.
The Hand of Ethelbert. By Thomas Hardy.
The Trumpet Major. By Thomas Hardy.
Two on a Tower. By Thomas Hardy.
Old House at Sandwich. By Joseph Hatton.
Three Recruits. By Joseph Hatton.
A Golden Sorrow. By Mrs. Cashel Hoey. New Edition.
A Stern Chase. By Mrs. Cashel Hoey.
Out of Court. By Mrs. Cashel Hoey.
Don John. By Jean Angelo.
John Jerome. By Jean Angelo. ^s.
Sarah de Berenger. By Jean Angelo.
Adela Cathcart. By George Mac Donald.
Guild Court. By George Mac Donald.
Mary Marston. By George Mac Donald.

Stephen Archer. New Ed. of "Gifts." By George Mac Donald.
The Vicar's Daughter. By George Mac Donald.
Orts. By George Mac Donald.
Weigh-hed and Wanting*. By George Mac Donald.
Diane. By Mrs. Macquoid.
Elinor Dryden. By Mrs, Macquoid.
My Lady Greensleeves. By Helen Matters.
Spell of Ashtaroth. By Duffield Osborne. 5^.
Alaric Spenceley. By Mrs. J. H, Liddell.
Daisies and Buttercups. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.
The Senior Partner. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.
A Struggle for Fame. By Mrs. J. H, Liddell.
Frozen Pirate. By W. Clark Russell.
Jack's Courtship. ByW. Clark Russell.
John Wordsworth. By W. Clark Russell.
A Sailor's Sweetheart. By W. Clark Russell.
Sea Queen. By W. Clark Russell.
Watch Below. By W. Clark Russell.
Strange Voyage. By W. Clark Russell.
Wreck of the Grosvenor. By W. Clark Russell,
The Lady Maud. By W. Clark Russell.
little Loo. By W. Clark Russell,
Bee-man of Born. By Frank R. Stockton.
My Wife and I. By Mrs. Harriet B. Stow.,

Low's Standard Novels — continued.

The Late Mrs. Null. By Frank R. Stockton.
Hundredth Man. By Frank R. Stockton.
Old Town Folk. By Mrs. Harriet B. Stowe.
"We and our Neighbours. By Mrs. Harriet B. Stowe.
Pog-anuc People, their Loves and Lives. By Mrs. Stowe.
Ulu: an African Romance. By Joseph Thomson.
Ben Hur : a Tale of the Christ. By Lew. Wallace.
Anne. By Constance Fenimore Wilson.
East Hang-els. By Constance Fenimore Wilson.
For the Major. By Constance Fenimore Wilson. 5^.
French Heiress in her own Chateau.
Low's Series of Standard Books for Boys. With numerous
Illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 3^. 6d. each.

Dick Cheveley. By W. H. G. Kingston.

Heir of Kilfinnan. By W- II. G. Kingston.

Off to the Wilds. By G. Manville Fenn.

The Two Supercargoes. By W. II. G. Kingston.

The Silver Canon. By G. Manville Fenn.

"Under the Meteor Flag. By Harry Collingwood.

Jack Archer : a Tale of the Crimea. By G. A. Henty.

The Mutiny on Board the Ship Leander. By B. Hermann.

With Axe and Rifle on the Western Prairies. By W. II. G.
Kingston.

Red Cloud, the Solitary Sioux : a Tale of the Great Prairie.
By Col. Sir Wm. Butler, K.C.B.

The Voyage of the Aurora. By Harry Collingwood.

Yarmouth Grange: a Tale of the 17th Century. By J.
Percy Groves.

Snowshoes and Canoes. By W. H. G. Kingston.

The Son of the Constable of France. By Louis Rousselet.

Captain Milford; or, Our Salt and Fresh Water Tutors.
Edited by W. H. G. Kingston.

The Cornet of Horse, a Tale of Marlborough's Wars. By
G. A. Henty.

The Adventures of Captain Ago. By Leon Caiiun.

Noble Words and Noble Needs.

The King of the Tigers. By RoussELET.

Hans Drinker; or, The Silver Skates. By Mrs. Dodge.

The Drummer-boy, a Story of the time of Washington. By

ROUSSELET.

Adventures in New Guinea : The Narrative of Louis Elegance.
The Crusoe of Guiana. By Boussenard.

The Gold Seekers. A Sequel to the Above. By Boussenard.
Winning His Spurs, a Tale of the Crusades. By G. A. Henty.
The Blue Banner. By Leon Cahun.
Low's Pocket Encyclopedia : a Compendium of General Knowledge
for Ready Reference. Upwards of 25,000 References, with
Plates. New ed., imp. 32mo, cloth, marbled edges, 3^. 6d.\ roan, 4J. 6d.

Low's Handbook to London Charities. Yearly, cloth, is. 6d. ;
paper, is.

l[/rCCORMLCK {R.). Voyages in the Arctic and Antarctic
■^ ^-^ Seas in Search of Sir John Franklin, &c. With Maps and Thos.
2 vols., royal 8vo, 52^-. dd.

Mac Donald george). See Low's Standard Novels.
Macdonald alex. B.) Curve Pictures of London for the Social

Reformer. \s.
McGoun's Commercial Correspondence. Crown 8vo, 55.
Macgregor john) ^^ Rob Roy"* on the Baltic. 3rd Edition,

small post 8vo, 2.s. 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, y. 6d.
A Thousand Miles in the '^ Rob Roy'' Canoe, nth

Edition, small post 8vo, 2s. 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, 3^. 6d.

Voyage Alone in the Yawl " Rob Roy'' New Edition,

with additions, small post 8vo, ^s. ; 3^. (>d. and 2s. 6d.
Mackay (C.) Glossary of Obscure Words in Shakespeare. 21s,

Mckenzie sir Morel) Fatal Illness of Frederick the Noble.

Crown 8vo, limp cloth, 2.s. 6d.
Mckenzie {Rev.Joh7i) Austral Africa : Losing it or Ruling it?

Illustrations and Maps. 2 vols., 8vo, 32^.
McLellan^S Own Story : The War for the Union. Illust. i8j.
McMurdo edward) History of Portugal. 8vo, 2\s.
Macquoid{Mrs.). See Low's Standard Novels.
Magazine. See English Etchings, Harper.
Maginn ( W. ) Miscellanies. Prose and Verse. With Memoir.

2 vols., crown 8vo, 24J.
Main amis.; Mrs. Fred Burnaby^ High Life and Towers of

Silence. Illustrated, square 8vo, 10^. 6d.
Manitoba. See Bryce.
Manning {E. F.) Delightful Thames. Illustrated. 4to, fancy

boards, 5^.
Markham { Clements R.) The Fighting Veres, Sir F. and Sir H.

Svo, iSj.
War between Peru and Chili, 1879-1881. Third Ed.

Crown 8vo, with Maps, lox. dd.

See also "Foreign Countries," Maury, and Veres.

Marshall {W. G.) Through America. New Ed., cr. 8vo, 7^. 6d.
Marston {W.) Eminent Recent Actors ^ Reminiscences Critical,

&c. 2 vols. Crown 8vo, 2\s.
Martini {J^. IV.) Float Fishing and Spinning in the Nottingham

Style. New Edition. Crown Svo, zs. 6d.

Matthews {J. W.^ M.D.) Inat^adi Yavii : Twenty years in

South Africa. With many Engravings, royal 8vo, 14^.
Maury (commander) Physical Geography of the Sea, and its

Meteorology. New Edition, with Charts and Diagrams, cr. 8vo, ds.
Life. By his Daughter. Edited by Mr. Clements R.

Markham. With portrait of Maury. 8vo, I2j. crimen
of Mark: Portraits of the most Eminent Men of the Day,

Complete in 7 Vols., 4to, handsomely bound, gilt edges, 25j-. each.
Mendelssohn Family the), 1729 — 1847. From Letters and

Journals. Translated. New Edition, 2 vols., Svo, 30X.
Mendelssohn. See also " Great Musicians."
Merriment's Nautical Astronomy. Crown Svo, "js. 6d.
Merrylees {/.) Carlsbad and its Environs, ys. 6d. ; roan, gs.
Milford (P.) Ned Stafford's Experiences ifi the United States, ^s.
Mills (y.) Alternative Elementary Chemistry. Illust., cr. Svo.

Alternative Course in Physics.

Mitchell {L>. G. ; Lk. Marvel) Works. Uniform Edition,

small Svo, 5i-. each.

Bound together.
Doctor Johns.
Dream Life.
Out-of-Town Places.

Reveries of a Bachelor.

Seven Stories, Basement and Attic.

Wet Days at Wedgwood.

Milford mary Russell) Our Village. With 1 2 full-page and 157

smaller Cuts. Cr. 4to, cloth, gilt edges, 21s.; cheaper binding, ios.6d.
Moffatt {W.) Land a?ui Work; Depression, Agricultural and

Commercial. Crown Svo, 5^.
Mohammed Benani: A Story of To-day. Svo, 10s. dd.
Mollett {/. W.) Illustrated Dictionary of Words used in Art and

Archaeology. Illustrated, small 4to, i5j-.
Maloney governor) Forestry of West Africa. vos. 6d.
Money {E.) The Truth about America. New Edition. 2s. 6d.
Moorlands, The. A Tale of Anglo-Indian Life. By Author of

Sleepy Sketches." Crown Svo, 6s.
Morley henry) English Literature in the Reign of Victoria.

2000th volume of the Tauchnitz Collection of Authors. imo, 2s. 6.7.
Mormojiism. See " Stenhouse."
Morse {E. S.) Japanese Homes and their Surroundings. With

'-* more than 300 Illustrations. Re-issue, vos. 6d.
Shorten honor) Sketches of Hospital Life. Cr. Svo, sewed, li".
Wormwood. Our Gipsies in City, Tent, acid Va?i. Svo, iSj".
Moon { Walter) Pilocereus Senilis. Fcap. Svo, gilt top, 2>^. 6d.
Muller (E.) Noble Words and Noble Deeds. Illustrated, gilt

edges, 3^-. dd. ; plainer binding, 2s. 6d.

Murray {E. C. Grenville) Memoirs. By his widow. 2 vols.
Muss^rave mrs.) Miriam. Crown 8vo.
Music. See " Great Musicians."

ATAPO LEON and Marie Louise: Memoirs, By Madame

"^ * Durant. *]S. 6d.

Nethercote {C. B) Pytchley Blunt. New Ed., cr. 8vo, 2>s. 6d,

New Zealand. See Bradshaw.

Nev Zealand Rulers and Statesmen. See Gisborne.

Nicholls {J. H. Kerry') The King Country : Explorations in
New Zealand. Many Illustrations and Map. New Edition, 8vo, 2\s.

Islet illume) Life and Nature Studies. With Etching by
C. O. Murray. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Nordhoff {C.) California for Health, Pleasure, and Residence.
New Edition, 8vo, with Maps and Illustrations, \2s. 6d.

Norman {C. P.) Corsairs of Prance. With Portraits. 8vo, iSs.

Notebook Gallery. Edited by Lord Ronald Gower. 36 Permanent
Photographs. Imperial 4to, 63J. ; large paper, 105^'.

Not major) Wild Animals Photographed and Described. 355-.

Nursery Playmates prince of ). 217 Coloured Pictures for
Children by eminent Artists. Folio, in colour-ed boards, 6j.

Nursing Record. Yearly, d>s.', half-yearly, ^s, 6d.; quarterly,
2s. bd ; weekly, 2d.

ryPRLEN (R. B.) Fifty Years of Concessions to Ireland.

^ With a Portrait of T. Drummond. Vol. I., i6j., II., i6j.

Orient Line Guide BooJz. By W. J. Loftier. 5^.

Oris (C. P.) Fishing qvith the Fly. Illustrated. 8vo, \2s. 6d.

Osborne {Duffield) Spell of Ashtaroth. Crown 8vo, 5 J.

Our Little Ones in Heaven. Edited by the Rev. H. Robbins.

With Frontispiece after Sir Joshua Reynolds. New Edition, 5^.
Owen douglas) Marine Insurance Notes and Clauses. New

Edition, I4J-.

palliser mrs.) A History of Lace. New Edition, with
■^ additional cuts and text. 8vo, 2IJ".
The China Collector's Pocket Companion. With upwards

of looo Illustrations of Marks and Monograms. Small 8vo, 5.r.
Parkin {/.) Antidotal Treatment of Epidemic Cholera. 35. (yd.
Epidejniology in the Animal and Vegetable Kingdom.

Part I., crown 8vo, 3^. depart II. , y. 6d.

Volcanic Origin of Epidemics. Popular Edition,

crown 8yo, 2s.

Payne {T. O.) Solomon s Temple aid Capitol, Ark of the Flood

and Tabernacle (four sections at 24^-.), extra binding, 105^.
Fennel {H. Cholmondele}') Sporting Fish of Great Britain

15J. ; large paper, 30X.

Modei-n Iviproveitients in Fishing-tackle. Crown Svo, 2s.

Ferelaer {M. T. H.) Fan Away from the Dutch ; Borneo, qt-'c.

Illustrated, square Svo, *]s. 6d.
Pharmacopoeia of the United States of America. Svo, 2\s.
Fhilpt {H. J.) Diabetes Mellitus. Crown Svo, 5^.
Diet System. Tables. I. Diabetes; II. Gout;

III. Dyspepsia ; IV. Corpulence. Cases, ij-. each.
Flunkett major G. T,) Primer of Orthographic Projection.

Elementary Solid Geometry. With Problems and Exercises. 2s. 6d.
Foe {E. A.) The Haven. lustre. by Dore. Imperial folio, (i^^s.
Fo ems of the Finer Life. Chiefly Modern. Small Svo, 5^'.
Polar Expeditions. See JMcCormick.
Force (A.) Juvenile French Flays. With Notes and a

Vocabulary. imo, \s.
Former admiral David D.) Naval History of Civil War.

Portraits, Plans, &c. 4to, 25^-
Former noah) Elements of Moral Science. 10s. 6d.
Portraits of Celebrated Face-horses of the Fast and Present

Centuries-with Pedigrees and Performances. 4 vols., 4to, 126?.
Poles (Z. Z>.) Land of the Fink Pearl: Life itt the Bahamas.

8vo, los. 6d.
Pointer edward J., F.A.). See " Illustrated Text-books."
Fritz {T. E.) North Country Flies. Illustrated from the

Author's Drawings. 10^. (yd.

Publisher Circular the), and Gene-al Feco?'d of British and
Foreign Literature. Published on the 1st and 15th of every Month, 3^.

File howard) Otto of the Silver Hand. Illustrated by the
Author. Svo, '^s. 6d.

TDAMBA UD. History of Russia. New Edition, Illustrated.

-* ^ 3 vols., Svo, 2\S.

Fever. History of Mediaeval Art. Translated by Clarke.

422 Illustrations and Glossary. Svo,
Bedford {Gi) Ancient Sculpture. New Ed. Crown Svo, lor. 6^/.
Feed sir E. /., M.F.) and Simpson, Modern Ships of War.

lust., royal Svo, vos. 6d.
Richards { W.) Aluminium : its History, Occurrence, 6-v.

Illustrated, crown Svo, 12s. 6d.

Richter {D?-. Jean Paul) Italian Art in the National Gallery.
4to. Illustrated. Cloth gilt, £2 2.S.; half-morocco, uncut, £2 \2s. dd.

See also Leonardo da Vinci.

Liddell mrs. J. H.) See Low's Standard Novels.
Robertson famine /.) Myself and my Relatives. New Edition,

crown 8vo, robin
Hood; Merry Adventures of. Written and illustrated

by Howard Pyle. Imperial 8vo, 151.

Robinson phil.) In my Indian Garden. New Edition, imo,

limp cloth, is.

Noa/i's Af-k. Unnatural History. Sm. post 8vo, 125. 6^/.

Sinners and Saints : a Tour across the United States of

America, and Round them. Crown 8vo, lo. 6d.
Under the Pimkah. New Ed. , cr. 8vo , limp cloth 2s.

Rockstro (JF. S.) History of Micsic. New Edition. 8vo, 145-.
Roland., The Story of. Crown Svo, illustrated, ds.

Rolfe eustace Neville) Pompeii, Popular and Practical, Cr.

svo, "js. 6d.
Rome and the Environs. With plan?, 3^".
Rose (y .) Complete Practical Machinist. New Ed. , 1 imo, 1 2s. 6d.

Key to Engines and Eiigine-rufining. Crown Svo, 85. dd.

Mechanical Drawing. Illustrated, small 4to, i6j-.

Modern Steam Engines. Illustrated. 31^. dd.

Steam Boilers. Boiler Construction and Examination,

Illust., Svo, is. 6d.
Rose library. Each volume, i^. Many are illustrated —

Little Women. By Louisa M. Alcott.

Little Woinen Wedded. Forming a Sequel to " Little Women.

Little Woinen and Little Women Wedded, i vol. , cloth gilt,3J-. 6d.

Little Men. By L. M. Alcott. Double vol., 2s.; cloth gilt, ^s. 6d.

An Old-fashioned Girl. By LouiSA M. Alcott. 2s.; cloth,
3^. 6d.

Work. A Story of Experience. By L. M. Alcott. 3^. 6d. ; 2 vols.,
IS. each.

Stowe (Mrs. H. B.) The Pearl of Orr's Island.

The Minister's Wooing

and over Neighbours. 2s. ; cloth gilt, 6s.

My Wife and I. 2s.

Hans Drinker ; or, the Silver Skates. By Mrs. DoDGE. Also 5^.

My Study Windows. By J. R. Lowell.

The Guardian Hang-el. By Oliver Wendell Holmes.

My Summer in a Garden. By C. D. Warner.

Died. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe. 2s.; cloth gilt, 3J-. 6d.

City Ballads. New Ed. imo. By Will Carleton.

ON. >

)N. 3

iv^i-.? Library ( 77/<?) —continued.

Farm Ballads. By Will Carleton.

Farm Festivals. By Will Carleton. \ i vol., cl., gilt ed., 3^. (id.

Farm Leg-ends. By Will Carleton.

The Rose in Bloom. By L. M. Alcott. is. ; cloth gilt, 3^-. 6c/.

Eight Cousins. By L. M. Alcott. is. ; cloth gilt, S^. 6d.

Under the Lilacs. By L. M. Alcott. 2s. ; also 3J. 6d.

Undiscovered Country. By W. D. How ells.

Clients of Dr. Bernagius. By L. Bart. 2 parts.

Silver Pitchers. By Louisa M. Alcott. Cloth, 35-. 6d.

Jimmy's Cruise in the "Pinafore," and other Tales. By

Louisa M. Alcott. 2s.; cloth gilt, 3^. 6d.
Jack and Jill. By Louisa M. Alcott. 2s.; Illustrated, $s.
Hitherto. By the Author of the " Gayvvorthys." 2 vols., u. each;

I vol., cloth gilt, 3J-. 6d.
A Gentleman of Leisure. A Novel. By Edgar Facets. is.

Ross mars) and Stonehenge Cooper. Highlands of Calabria ;

or, Three Days from England. Illustrations and Map, 8vo, dis.
Rothschild, the Financial Rulers of Nations. By John

Reeves. Crown 8vo, ^s. 6d.
Roiisselet louis) Son of the Constable of France. Small post

8vo, numerous Illustrations, gilt edges, 3^. 6c/.; plainer, 2s. 6d.
King of the Tigers : a Story of Central hidia. Illustrated.
Small post Svo, gilt, 3r. 6./. ; plainer, 2s. 6d.
Runner Boy. Illustrated. Small post Svo, gilt

edges, y. 6d.; plainer, 2s. 6d.
Russell (Dora) Strange Message. 3 vols., crown Svo, 31^". dd.
Russell (JV. Clark) each's Courtship. New Ed., small post

Svo, english
Channel Forts and the Estate of the East

and West India Dock Company. Crown Svo, \s.

Frozen Pirate. New Ed., lust, small post Svo, 6.f.

Sailor's Language. Illustrated. Crown Svo, 35". 6d.

Sea Queen. New Ed., small post Svo, 6s.

Strange Voyage. New Ed., small post Svo, 6s.

The Lady Maud. New Ed., small post Svo, 6s.

Wreck of the Grosvenor. Small post Svo, 6s. 4to,

sewed, 6d.

(saints and their Symbols : A Companion in the Churches
*^ and Picture Galleries of Europe. Illustrated. Royal l6mo, 3^-. 6d.
Samuels {Capt.J. S.) From Forecastle to Cabin : Autobiography,

Illustrated. Crown Svo, Zs. 6d. ; also with fewer Illustrations, cloth,

2s.\ paper, \s.
Sandbanks {/. P.) How to Develop Vocal Power, is.

Saunders {A.) Our Domestic Birds: Poultry in England ajtd

New Zealand. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Our Horses : the Best Muscles controlled by the Best

Brains. 6s.
Scherr prof. J^.) History of English Literature, Cr. 8vo, Zs. 6d.
Scilly. Rescue of Freely. Maps and Illustrations, 8vo, \2s. 6d,

Schuyler eugene) American Diplomacy and the Furtherance of

Commerce. Is. 6d.

The Life of Peter the Great. 2 vols., 8vo, 32^.

Schweinfurth {Gcorg) Heart of Africa. 2 vols., crown Svo, i^s.
Scott (Leader) Renaissance of Art in Italy. 4to, 31^'. 6d.

Sculpture, Renaissance and Modern. 55.

Semmes {Adjn. Raphael) Service Afloat: The ^^ Sister" and

the "Alabama." Illustrated. Royal Svo, le^-.
Senior {W.) Near and Ear ; an Angler's Sketches of Home

Sport and Colonial Life. Crown Svo, 6s.

Waterside Sketches. Imp. 32mo, i.f. 6>d.\ boards, \s.

Shakespeare. Edited by R. Grant White. 3 vols., crown

Svo, gilt top, 36J, ; edition de luxe 6 vols., Svo, cloth extra, 6y.

— — See also Randall, Dethroning, Donnelly, Mackay,

and White (R. Grant).
Shakespeare' s Heroines : Studies by Living English Painters.
1 05 J. ; artists' proofs, 63OJ.

Songs and Sonnets. Illust. by Sir John Gilbert, R.A.

4 to, boards, sharpe
(R. Boiler) Birds in Nature, 39 coloured plates

and text. 4to, 6y.
Sidney sir Philip) Arcadia. New Edition, 6s.
Siegfried, The Story of Illustrated, crown Svo, cloth, 6j.
Simon, Crista : its Social Life. Crown Svo, 6^.
Simon (A.) Wilds of Ecuador and Exploration of thePutmnayor

River. Crown Svo, %s. 6d.
Sinclair mrs.) Indigenous Flowers of the Hawaiian Islands.

44 Plates in Colour. Imp. folio, extra binding, gilt edges, 31J. 6d.
Sloane {T. O.) Home Experiments in Science for Old and Young,

Crown Svo, 6s,
Smith (G.) Assyrian Explorations. Illust. New Ed., Svo, i8j.
The Chaldean Account of Genesis. With many Illustrations.
i6s. New Ed. By Professor Sauce, Svo, iSj.
Smith (G. Barnett) William L. and the German Empire,

New Ed., Svo, 3^. 6d.
Smith (/. Moor) Wooing of ^thra. Illustrated. 3 2 mo, \s.

Smith sydney) Life and Times. By Stuart J. Reid. Illustrated.
8vo, lis.
Sniith {W. P.) Laws concerning Public Health. 8vo, 31^. (id.

Spies' French Dictionary. 29th Edition, remodelled. 2 vols.,

8vo, \2>s.', half bound, 2U.
Spry ( W.J. J., Ren., F.R.G.S) Cruise of Heals'' Challenger'

With Illustrations. 8vo, iSj-. Cheap Edit., crown Svo, 7^. 6d.
Spyri {^oh.) HcidVs Early Experiences : a Story for Children

and those who love Children. Illustrated, small post Svo, 4J. 6d.
HeidVs Further Experiences. Illust., sm. post Svo, ass. 6d.

Stanley (H. Af.) Congo, and Founding its Free State. Illustrated,
2 vols., Svo, 42s. ; re-issue, 2 vols. Svo, ils.

Slow LFou/id Livingstone. Svo, los. 6d. ; cr. Svo, 'js. 6d.

- — Through the Da7'k Continent. Crown Svo, 1 2s. 6d.
Start iJ. W, IC.) Junior Mensuration Exercises. Sd.

S ten house mrs.) tyranny of Mornings. Aji Englishwoman

in Utah. New ed., cr. Svo, cloth elegant, 3^-. 6d.
Starry (J. Ashy) Cucumber Chronicles. 55*.
Stevens {E. W.) Fly-fishing in Maine Lakes. Zs. 6d.
Stevens {T.) Around the World on a Bicycle. Volet. Svo. i6.r.
Stockton frank P.) Rudder Grange, 35-. dd.
Bee Man of Born, and other Fanciful Tales. Cr. svo,

The Casting Away of Mrs. Leeks and Mrs. Aleshinc. \s.

The Durante. Sequel to the above. Sewed, \s. ;

this and the preceding book in one volume, cloth, 2s. 6d.

The Hundredth Alan. Small post Svo, ds.

The Late Mrs. Still. Small post Svo, 6s.

The Story of Viteau. Illust. Cr. Svo, 5^.

See also Low's Standard Novels.

Stoker abram) Under the Sunset. Crown Svo, 6s.

Storer professor F. H) Agriculture in its Relations to

Chemistry. 2 vols., Svo, 2^s.
Stowe{Alrs. Beecher)Dred. Cloth, gilt edges, 3^. 6d.\ cloth, is.
Flower's and Fruit from her Writings. Sm. post Svo

3J. 61:.

Little Foxes. Cheap Ed., \s.\ Library Edition, 4^. 6d.

My Wife and /. Cloth 2s,

Stowe mrs. Beecher) Old Town Folk. 6s.

We and our Neighbours. 2s.

Poganuc People, 6s.

See also Rose Library.

Astrachan {/.) Explorations and Adventures in New Guinea,

Illust., crown 8vo, \2.s.
Stuttfield{Hugh E. M.) El Maghreb : 1200 Miles' Ride through

Morocco. 8j. dd.
Sullivan {A. M.) Nutshell History of Ireland. Paper boards, 6d.

raine {H. A) " Origines." Translated by John Durant.
I. The Ancient Regime. Demy 8vo, cloth, i6s.
II. The French Revolution. Vol. i. do.

III. Do. do. Vol. 2. do.

IV. Do. do. Vol. 3. do.
Ta^ichnitz's English Editions of German Authors. Each

volume, cloth flexible, 2s. ; or sewed, is. 6d. (Catalogues post free.)
Tauchnitz {B .) Meridian Dictionary. 2s. \ paper, i^. 6d.; roan,

2s. 6d.

French Dictionary . 2s.', paper, ij-. 6d.', roan, 2s. 6d.

Italian Dictionary. 2s. ; paper, ij-. 6d. ; roan, 2s. 6d.

■ ' Latin Dictionary. 2s. \ paper, \s. 6d. ; roan, 2s. 6d.

■ Spanish and English. 2s. ; paper, i^. 6d. ; roan, 2s. 6d.

Spanish and French. 2s. \ paper, ij-. 6d. \ roan, 2s. 6d.

Taylor {R. L.) Chemical Analysis Tables, is.

— Chemistry for Beginners. Small 8vo, i^. 6d.

Techno- Chemical Receipt Book. With additions by Brant

and Wahl. lOi". dd.
Technological Dictionary. See Tolhausen.
Thausi?tg prof.) Malt and the Fabrication of Beer. 8vo, 455".
Theakston {M.) British Angling Flies. Illustrated. Cr. 8vo, 5/.
Thomson jos.) Central African lakes. New edition, 2 vols.

in one, crown Svo, Js. 6d.
Through Alasai Land. Illust. 2\s. ; new edition, ys. 6d'

and Miss Harris-Smith. Ulu : an African Romance.

crown Svo, ds.

Thornton (JV.) Algebra for Colleges a fid Schools. With Answers,

5j. ; without, 4J-. 6d. ; Answers separate, is. 6d
Tolhausen. Etymological German, English arid French Dictionary.

Vols. I., II., with Supplement, \2s. 6d. each; III., 9^. j

Supplement, cr. 8vo, 3^. 6d.
Trornholt (S.) Binder the Rays of the Aurora Borealis. By

C. Sleepers. Photographs and Portraits. 2 vols., 8vo, 30^.
Tucker ( W.J.) Life and Society in Eastern Europe, i^s.
Tupper martin Farquhar) My Life as an Author. 145".
Turner edward) Studies in Russian Literature. Cr. 8vo, dos. 6d.

TTPTON {LI.) Manual of Practical Dairy Fanning. Cr.
^ 8vo, 2s.

jyAN DAM. Land of Rubens ; a conic anion for visitors to

*^ Belgium. See Hurt.

Vaiie {Denzil) From the Dead. A Romance. 2 vols., cr. 8vo,

1 2 J. .
Vane sir Harry Yoimg). By Prof. James K. Hosier.

8vo, iSj.
Veres. Biography of Sir Francis Vere and Lord Vere leading

Generals in the Netherlands. By Clements R. Markham. 8vo, isis
queen) Life of. By Grace Greenwood. Illust. 6^.
Vincent mrs. Howard) Forty Thousand Miles over Land a7td

Water. With Illustrations. New Edit., 35-. dd.
Viollet-le-Duc {E.) Lectures 07i Architecture. Translated by

Benjamin Bucknall, Architect. 2 vols., super-royal 8vo, £1 y.

JJZAKEFLELD. Aix-les-Bains : Bathing and Attractions.

^^ 2 ed.

Walford mrs. L. B.) Her Great Idea, and other Stories. Cr.

8vo, los. 6d.
Wallace (Z.) Ben Hur: A Tale of the Christ. New Edition,

crown 8vo, 6^-. ; cheaper edition-is.
Waller rev. C. H.) The Haines on the Gates of Pearl,

and other Studies. New Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, y. 6d.
Words in the Greek Testament. Part I. Grammar.

Small post 8vo, cloth, 2.s. 6d. Part II. Vocabulary, 2s. 6d.

Li.xos Cbowit 8vo.

WORKS.

Containing: 350 to 600 pp.
< and from 50 to 100
(. full-page illustrations.

In very

handsome
cloth binding,
gilt

20,000 Leagues under the Sea.

Parts I. and II

Hector Servadac

The Fur Country

The Earth to the Moon and a Trip

round it

Michael Strogofi ^

Dick Sands, the Boy Captain . .
Five Weeks in a Balloon . . .
Adventures of Three Englishmen

and Three Russians
Round the World in Eighty Days

A Floating City

The Blockade Runners . . .
Dr. Ox's Experiment
A Winter amid the Ice . . .
Survivors of the " Chancellor"

Martin Paz

The Mysterious Island, 3 vols. :—

I. Dropped from the Clouds

II. Abandoned

III. Secret of the Island . .
The Child of the Cavern . . .
The Begum's Fortune . . .
The Tribulations of a Chinaman
The Steam House, 2 vols. :—
I. Demon of Cawnpore . .

II. Tigers and Traitors . .
The Giant Raft, 2 vols. :—

I. 800 Leagues on the Amazon

II. The Cryptogram . , . .

The Green Ray

Godfrey Morgan

Keraban the Inflexible : —

I. Captain of the " Guitar " .

II. Scarpante the Spy
The Archipelago on Fire . . . .
The Vanished Diamond . . . .
Mathias Sanders .;

The Lottery Ticket

Clipper of the Clouds

ITorth against South

Adrift in the Pacific

Flight to France

10 6

10 6

10 6

10 6

10 6

7 6

22 6
7 6

7 6





















In

plainer

binding,

plain

edges.






3 6
3 6
3 6

3 6

10 6

3 6

3 6

3 6

3 6
3 6

3 6

3 6

S 6

3 G

3 6



Containing the whole of whitest
with some illustration,

In cloth

binding, gilt

edges,

smaller

tj-pe.



3 6
3 6

f 2 vols., "^
\2s. ea. j

3 6

3 6






2











2~'o

Coloured board

vols., Is. oai

2 vols., Is. ea(
2 vols., Is. ea(

2 vols., Is. ea(

2 vols Is. ea(
2 vols., Is. eai
Is. Od.



2 vols., Is. c

Is. Od,


















Celebrated Ti!atels and Travellers. 3 vols., 8vo, 600 pp., 100 full-page illustrations, 12.0. Go
gilt edges, 14s. each :— (1) The Exploration of the World. (2) The Great Navigators OS xB
EiGHTfiENTH Ce^^xubx. (3) The Gbeax Explores of the Nineteenth Ceniuex.

Walleri^Rev. C.H.) Adoption and the Covenant. On Confirmation.
2 J. (id.

Silver Sockets; and other Shadows of Redemption.

Sermons at Christ Church, Hampstead. Small post Svo, Gs.
Walsh{A.S.) Mary, Queen of the House of David. 870,35.6^.
Walton {Iz.) Wallet Book, CIoIoLXXXV. Crown Svo, half

vellum, dis. ; large paper, 42J.
— Compleat Angler. Lea and Dove Edition. Ed. by R. B.

Marston. With full-page Photogravures on India paper, and the

Woodcuts on India paper from blocks. 4to, half-morocco, 105^.;

large paper, royal 4to, full dark green morocco, gilt top, 2\os.

\^ Walton {T. H.) Coal Mining. With Illustrations. 4to, 255-.
"•^M^dropi^O.) Kingdom of Georgia, lust. and map. Svo. 143-.

.yHA^arner {C. D.) My Sumner in a Garden. Boards, is.\

leatherette, is. 6d. • cloth, 2s.
Their Pilgrimage. Illustrated by C. S. Reinhart.

8vo, *]s. 6d.
Warren (W. P.) Paradise Found; the North Pole the Cradle

of the Human Race. Illustrated. Crown Svo, \2s. 6d.
Washington Irving'' s Little Britain. Square crown Svo, 65".
Wells {H. P.) American Saint Fisherman, ds.

Fly Rods acid Fly Tackle. Illustrated. 10s. 6d.

Wells {/. W.) Three Thousand Miles through Brazil. Illustrated
from Original Sketches. 2 vols. Svo, 32^.
Weasel (O.) Directory of Chemical Products of the German

Empire. Svo, 25J.
White \R. Gra}it) England Without and Within. Crown Svo,

vos. 6d.

Every-day English. vos. 6d.

Fate of Masts eld Humphreys, dec. Crown Svo, 6s.

• Studies in Shakespeare. \qs. 6d.

Words aid their Uses. New Edit., crown Svo, ^s.

Whitney mrs.) The Other Girls. A Sequel to *' We Girls."

New ed. imo, 2s.
We Girls. New Edition. 2s.

Whittier {/. G.) The King's Missive, and later Poems. imo,

choice parchment cover, 3J-. dd.

St. Gregory's Guest, &-r. Recent Poems. wilcox

marriott) Real People. Sm. post Svo, 3-r. 6d.

"^ Senora Violent ; and Gray, an Oldhaven Romance. 2

vols, in one, 6^.

William I. and the German Empire. By G. Barnett Smith.

New Edition, 3^. 6c/.
Willis-bind {J.) Salmon Problems, ^s. 6d.; boards, 2s. 6d.
Wills {Dr. C. J. ) Persia as it is. Crown 8vo, 2>s. 6d.
Wills, A Few Hints on Proving, tvitJiout Professional Assistance.

By a Probate Court Official. 8th Edition, revised, with Forms

of Wills, Residuary Accounts, &c. Fcap, 8vo, cloth limp, \s.
Wilmot (A.) Poetry of South Africa. Collected and arranged.

Svo, 6j.
Wilson {Dr. Andrew) Health for the People. Cr. Svo 75. dd.
Windsor justin) Narrative and Critical History of America.

8 vols., 30J. each ; large paper, per vol., 63^'.
Wolsey. Introduction to International Laid. 5th Ed., i8i. -■
Wilson constance F.) See " Low's Standard Novels."
Wright {H.) Friendship of God. Portrait, &c. Crown Svo, ds.
Wright {T.) Town of Cowper, Olney, c5^'^. 6s.
WritUn to Order ; the Journeyings of an Irresponsible Egotist.

By the Author of " A Day of my Life at Eton." Crown Svo, 6j.

Friar charles) Florence: its History. Translated by
C. B. Pitman. Illustrated with 500 Engravings. Large imperial
4to, extra binding, gilt edges, 63^.; or 12 Parts, ^s. each.

History ; the Medici ; the Humanists ; letters ; arts ; the Renaissance ;
illustrious Florentines; Etruscan art; monuments; sculpture; painting.

Pontoon:

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston, Ld.,

3t. ^unstan'0 |5<Jwsc^
FETTER LANE, FLEET STREET, Eg.

Gilbert and Livingston, Ld., St. John's House, ClerkenweU Road Eg.



«!','S'r°'^"-'-"'o's-unBAr

3 0112 08421 Qfifio
