What is a man
If his chief good and market of his time
Be but to sleep and feed ? A beast, no more.

OF THE

UN Diversity

Of ILLINOIS



V.I

MIRACLE GOLD. 3 vols. 31/6.
THE MYSTERY OF KILLARD. 3/6.
FATAL BONDS. 3 vols. 31/6.
THE DUKE'S SWEETHEART 2s.
UNDER ST. PAUL'S. 2s.
THE SKELETON KEY. Is.

MR. DOWLING'S ESSAYS.

INDOLENT ESSAYS. 6s.
IGNORANT ESSAYS. 5s.

WARD & DOWNEY, PUBLISHERS, LONDON.

H ^otjcl.

Richard BOWLING,

AUTHOR OF

THE MYSTERY OF Killed," "THE DUKE's SWEETHEART,
UNDER ST, PAUL'S," " MIRACLE GOLD," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

Wed AND DOWNEY,

12, YORK STREET, CO VENT GARDEN, LONDON, W.C.
1889.

KELLY AND CO., MIDDLE MILL, KINGSTON-OK-THAMES

AND GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS, W,C.

CONTENTS.

CHAP, PAGE

I. — "Belford Bkidgk . 1

II. — Crawford's House . 14

III. — The Pine Groves op Leeham . .42

^ IV.— The Missing Man 64

v^ V. — A Second Apparition . . . ' .82

VI. — Crawford's Investigations . . . 103

VII. — A Visitor at Boland's Ait . . 121

^ VIII-father and Son 138



ji* IX. — Crawford's Home 160

^ X.— Father and Son 184

XI. — "Can I Play with that Little Boy?" . 205

XII. — Philip Ray at Richmond . . . 228

^;

CHAPTER I.

Belford BRIDGE.

There was not a cloud in the heavens.
The sun lay low in the west. The eastern
sky of a May evening was growing from
blue to a violet dusk. Not a breath of
wind stirred. It was long past the end of
the workman's day.

A group of miserably clad men lounged
on Welford Bridge, some gazing vacantly
into the empty sky, and some gazing
vacantly into the turbid water of the South
London Canal, crawling beneath the bridge
at the rate of a foot a minute towards its

VOL. I. 1

outlet in the Mercantile Docks, on the
Surrey shore between Greenwich and the
Pool.

The men were all on the southern side of
the bridge: they were loafers and long-horsemen.
Most of them had pipes in their
mouths. They were a disreputable-looking
group, belonging to that section of the
residuum which is the despair of philanthropists
— the man who has nothing before him
but work or crime, and can hardly be got
to work.

One of them was leaning against the
parapet with his face turned in mere idleness
up the canal. He was not looking at
anything : his full, prominent, meaningless
blue eyes were fixed on nothing. Directly
in the line of his vision, and between him
and Camberwell, were Crawford's Bay and
Boland's Ait. The ait, so called by some
derisive humorist, lay in the mouth of the

bay, the outer side of it forming one bank of
the canal, and the inner side corresponding
with the sweep of Crawford's Bay, formed
forty feet of canal water.

The man looking south was low-sized,
red-bearded, red-whiskered, red-haired, with
a battered brown felt hat, a neckerchief of
no determinable colour, a torn check shirt,
a dark blue ragged pea-jacket of pilot cloth,
no waistcoat, a pair of brown stained
trousers, and boots several sizes too large
for him, turned up at the toes, and so
bagged and battered and worn that they
looked as though they could not be moved
another step without falling asunder. This
man would have told a mere acquaintance
that his name was Jim Ford, but he was
called by those who knew him Eed Jim.

All at once he uttered a strong exclamation
of surprise without shifting his
position.

What is it, Jim ? " asked a tall, lank,
dark man by his side.

The others of the group turned and
looked in the direction in which Jim's eyes
were fixed.

Why," said Eed Jim, in a tone of incredulity
and indignation, " there's some one
in Crawford's House ! "

Of course there is, you fool ! Why,
where have you been ? Haven t you heard ?
Have you been with the (Salvation Army,
or only doing a stretch ? "

Fool yourself! " said Eed Jim. " Mind
what you're saying, or perhaps I'll stretch
you a bit, long as you are already." The
other men laughed at this personal sally.
It reduced long Ned Bayliss to sullen
silence, and restored Eed Jim to his condition
of objectless vacuity.

I hear," said a man who had not yet
spoken, " that Crawford's House is let."

Let ! " cried another, as though any one
who mentioned the matter as news must be
ages behind the times. "Let! I should
think it is!"

And yet it isn't so much let, after all'*
said Ned Bayliss, turning round in a captious
manner. " You can't exactly say a
place is let when a man goes to live in his
own house."

Why, Crawford's dead this long and
merry," objected a voice. ♦

Well," said Ned Bayliss, " and if he is,
and if he left all to his wife for as long as
she kept his name, and if she married a
second time and got her new husband to
change his name instead of her changing
hers — how is that, do you think, Matt
Jordan ? "

It was plain by Ned Bayliss's manner and
by the way in which this speech was received
by the listeners that he was looked

up to as a being of extraordinary mental
endowment, and possessed preeminently of
the power of lucid exposition.

*• True enough, "said Matt Jordan humbly,
as he hitched up his trousers and shifted
his pipe from one side of his mouth to the
other, and coughed a self-deprecatory cough.
And a snug property he has come into, I
say. I only wish I was in his place."

Jordan was a squat, ill-favoured man of
forty.

Why," said Bayliss derisively, " a man
with your points wouldn't throw himself
away on a sickly widow with only a matter
of a thousand a-year or thereabouts out of
a lot of ramshackle tenement-houses and
canal wharfs. You'd look higher. Matt.
Why, you'd want a titled lady, any way.
With your face and figure, you ought to be
able to do a great deal better than an
elderly sickly widow, even if she is rich."

Jordan shifted his felt hat, made no reply,
and for a while there was silence.

Crawford's House, of which the loungers
on Welford Bridge were speaking, stood a
few feet back from the inner edge of Crawford's
Bay, about three hundred yards from
the bridge. Jim Ford, the first speaker, had
concluded, from seeing all the sashes of
the house open, and a woman cleaning
a window, and a strip of carpet hanging
out of another, that a tenant had been
found for this lonely and isolated dwelling,
which had been standing idle for
years.

Have you seen this turncoat Crawford?"
asked a man after a pause.

No one had seen him.

He must have a spirit no better than a
dog's to change his name for her money,"
said Eed Jim, without abandoning his study
of Crawford's House, on which his vacant

eyes now rested with as much curiosity as
the expressionless blue orbs were capable
of.

It would be very handy for some people
to change their names like that, or in any
other way that wouldn't bring a trifle of
canvas and a few copper bolts to the mind
of any one in the neighbourhood of the East
India Docks," said Bayliss, looking at that
point of the sky directly above him, lest
any one might fancy his words had a personal
application.

With an oath, Eed Jim turned round,
and, keeping his side close to the parapet,
slouched slowly away towards the King
William public-house, which stood at the
bottom of the short approach to the steep
humpbacked bridge.

Nice chap he is to talk of changing a
name for money being disgraceful !" said
Bayliss, when the other was out of hearing.

He was as near as nine pence to doing
time over them canvas and bolts at the
East India. Look at him now, going to
the William as if he had money ! He isn't
the man that could stand here if he had a
penny in his rags." The speaker jingled
some coins in his own pocket to show how
he, being a man of intellectual resources
and strong will, could resist temptation before
which common clay, such as Eed Jim
was made of, must succumb. •

Eed Jim did not enter the William. Ashe
reached the door he stopped and looked
along the road. A man coming from the
western end drew up in front of him and
said:

Is that Welford Bridge ? " pointing to
where the group of loungers stood, with the
upper portions of their bodies illumined
by the western glow against the darkening
eastern sky.

"Yes," said Jim sullenly, " that's Welford
Bridge."

Do you know where Crawford's Bay is,
here on the South London Canal ? Is that
the canal bridge?"

I know where Crawford's Bay is right
enough," said the other doggedly. He was
not disposed to volunteer any information.
"Do you want to go to Crawford's Bay?
If you do, I can show you the way. I'm
out of work, governor, and stone broke."

Very good. Come along and show me
Crawford's House. I'll pay you for your
trouble."

Eed Jim led the way back to the bridge.

Who has he picked up ?" asked Bayliss
jealously, as the two men passed the group.

leone of the loungers answered.

He's turning down Crawford Street,"
said Bayliss, when the two men had gone a
hundred yards beyond the bridge.

So he is," said another. Bayliss was
the most ready of speech, and monopolised
the conversation. His mates regarded him
as one rarely gifted in the matter of language
; as one who would, without doubt,
have made an orator if ambition had led
the way.

I wonder what Eed Jim is bringing that
man down Crawford street for ? No good,
I'm sure."

Seems a stranger," suggested the other
man. "Maybe he wants Jim to show him
the way."

Ay," said Bayliss in a discontented tone.
There's a great deal to be seen down
Crawford Street ! Lovely views ; plenty of
rotting doors. Now, if they only got in on
the wharf, Jim could show him the old
empty ice-house there. Do you know, if
any one was missing hereabouts, and a good
reward was offered, I'd get the drags and

have a try in the ice-house. There's ten
feet of water in it if there's an inch, so I'm
told."

It is a lonesome place. I wonder they
don't pump the water out."

Pump it out, you fool ! How could
they? Why, 'twould fill as fast as any
dozen fire-engines could pump it out. The
water from the canal soaks into it as if the
wall was a sieve."

Nothing more was said for a while. Then
suddenly, Bayliss, whose eyes were turned
towards the bay, uttered an oath, and exclaimed,
"We're a heap of fools, that's
what we are, not to guess. Why, it must be
Crawford, the new Crawford — not the Crawford
that's dead and buried, but the one
that's alive and had the gumption to marry
the sickly widow for her money! There
he is at the window with that girl I saw
going into the house to-day."

Bayliss stretched out his long lean arm,
and pointed with his thin grimy hand over
the canal towards Crawford's House, at one
of the windows of which a man and woman
could be seen looking out into the dark
turbid waters of Crawford's Bay.

Crawford's house.

Crawford Street, into which the stranger
and his uncouth conductor had turned,
was a narrow, dingy, neglected blind lane.
The end of it was formed of a brick wall,
moss-grown and ragged. On the right-hand
side were gates and doors of idle
wharves, whose rears abutted on the bay ;
on the left, a long low unbroken wall
separating the roadway from a desolate
waste, where rubbish might be shot,
according to a dilapidated and half-illegible
notice-board ; but on the plot were only
two small mounds of that dreary material,
crowned with a few battered rusty iron
and tin utensils of undeterminable use.

In the street, which was a couple of
hundred yards long, stood the only dwelling.
Opposite the door Eed Jim drew up,
and, pointing, said, "That's Crawford's
House. I belong to this neighbourhood.
I'm called after the place. My name is
James Ford. I'm called after the place,
same as a lord is called after a place.
They found me twenty nine years ago on
the tow-path. Nobody wanted me much
then or since. Maybe you're the neV
Mr. Crawford, and, like me, called after
the place too?" He spoke in a tone of
curiosity.

At the question, his companion started,
looking at Eed Jim out of a pair of keen,
quick, furtive eyes. " I told you I would
pay you for showing me the place. Here's
sixpence. If you want any information of
me, you'll have to pay me for it. If you
really care to know my name, I'll tell it

to you for that sixpence." The stranger
laughed a short sharp laugh, handed Eed
Jim the coin, and kept his hand outstretched
as if to take it back.

Jim turned on his heel, and slunk away
muttering.

The stranger knocked with his fist on
the door, from which the knocker was
missing. The panels had originally been
painted a grass-green, now faded down to
the sober hue of the sea.

The door was opened by a tall slender
girl, whose golden-brown hair was flying
in wild confusion over her white forehead
and red cheeks, and across her blue eyes,
in which, as in the hair, flashed a glint of
gold. She smiled and laughed apologetically,
and thrust her floating hair back
from her face with both her hands.

Miss Layard ? " said the stranger,
raising his hat and bowing. He thought,

What beauty, what heath, what spirits,
what grace, what youth, what capriciousness
! "

"Yes," she answered, stepping back for •
him to enter. " Mr. Crawford ? " she asked
in her turn.

My name is Crawford," he said going
in. " I — I was not quite prepared to find you
what you are. Miss Layard — I mean so —
so young. When your brother spoke tome
of his sister, I fancied he meant someone
much older than himself."

She smiled, and laughed again as she led
him into the front room, now in a state
of chaotic confusion.

"We did not expect you till later. My
brother has not come home yet. We have
only moved in to-day, and we are, ! in
such dreadful confusion."

On the centre of the floor was spread
a square of very old threadbare carpet,

VOL. I. -

leaving a frame of worn old boards around
it. In the centre of the carpet stood a
small dining-table. Nothing else in the
room was in its place. The half-dozen
poor chairs, the chiffonnier, the one easy-chair,
the couch, were all higgledy-piggledy.
The furniture was of the cheapest kind,
made to catch the inexperienced eye.
Although evidently not old, it was showing
signs of decrepitude. It had once, no
doubt, looked bright and pleasant enough,
but now the spring seats of the chairs
were bulged, and the green plush expanse
of the couch rose and fell like miniature
grazing-land of rolling hillocks.

The young girl placed a seat for her
visitor, and took one herself with another
of those bright cheerful laughs which were
delicious music, and seemed to make light
and perfume in the darkening cheerless
room.

My brother told me you were not likely
to be here until ten ; but 3-0 ur rooms are
all ready, if you wish to see them."

She leant back in her chair and clasped
her hands in her lap, a picture of beautiful,
joyous girlhood.

He regarded her with undisguised admiration.
She returned his looks with
smiling, unruffled tranquillity.

So," he said in a low voice, as though
he did not wish the noise of his own words
to distract his sense of seeing, concentrated
on her face and lithe graceful figure, " you
got my rooms ready, while you left your
own in chaos ? "

"You are too soon," she answered,

nodding her head playfully. " If you had

not come until ten, we should have had

this room in order. As you see, it was well

we arranged the other rooms first. Would

you like to see them ? "

2—2

"Not just now. I am quite content
here for the present," he said, with a
gallant gesture towards her.

I don't think my brother will be very
long. In fact, when you knocked I felt
quite sure it was Alfred. ! here he is.
Pardon me," she cried, springing up, and
hurrying to the door.

In a few minutes Alfred Layard was
shaking hands with the other man, saying
pleasantly and easily, "I do not know,
Mr. Crawford, whether it is I ought to
welcome you, or you ought to welcome
me. You are at once my landlord and
my tenant."

And you, on your side, necessarily are
my landlord and my tenant also. Let us
welcome one another, and hope we may be
good friends."

With a wave of his hand he included the
girl in this proposal.

*' Agreed ! " cried Layard cheerfully, ashe
again shook the short plump hand of
the elder man.

You see," said Crawford, explaining
the matter with a humorous toss of the
head and a chuckle, " your brother is my
tenant, since he has taken this house, and
I am his tenant, since I have taken two
rooms in this house. I have just been
saying to Miss Layard," turning from the
sister to the brother, "that when you
spoke to me of your sister who looked
after your little boy, I imagined she must
be much older than you."

"Instead of which you find her a whole
ten years younger," said Layard, putting
his arm round the girl's slim waist lightly
and affectionately ; " and yet, although she
is only a child, she is as wise with her little
motherless nephew as if she were Methuselah's
sister."

The girl blushed and escaped from her
brother's arm.

"You would thmk," she said, "that
there was some credit in taking care of
Freddie. Why, he's big enough and good
enough to take care of himself, and me
into the bargain. I asked Mr. Crawford,
Alfred, if he would like to look at his
rooms, but he seemed to wish to see you'*

"And I am here at last," said Layard.
Well, shall we go and look at them now ?
You observe the confusion we are in here.
We cannot, I fear, offer you even a cup of
tea to drink to our better acquaintance."

Crawford rose, and the three left the
room and began ascending the narrow
massive and firm old stairs.

To look at brother and sister, no one
would fancy they were related. He was
tall and lank, with dark swarthy face,
deep-sunken small grey eyes, not remarkable

for their light, dark brown hair, and
snub nose. The most remarkable feature
of his face was his beard — dark dull brown
which looked almost dun, and hung down
from each side of his chin in two enormous
thin streamers. His face in repose was the
embodiment of invincible melancholy ; but
by some unascertainable means it was able
to light up under the influence of humour,
or affection, or joy, in a way all the more
enchanting because so wholly unexpected.

Alfred Layard was thirty years of age,
and had been a widower two years, his
young wife dying a twelve-month after the
birth of her only child Freddie, now three.

William Crawford was a man of very
different mould : thick-set, good-looking,
with bold brown eyes, clean-shaven face,
close thick hair which curled all over a
massive head, full lips that had few movements,
and handsome well-cut forehead too

hollow for beauty in the upper central
region. The face was singularly immobile,
but it had a look of energy and resolution
about it that caught the eye and held the
attention, and ended in arousing something
between curiosity and fear in the beholder.
Plainly, a man with a will of his own, and
plenty of energy to carry that will out.
In all his movements, even those of courtesy,
there was a suggestion of irrepressible
vigour. His age was about five or six
and thirty.

It was an odd procession. In front, the
gay fair girl with azure eyes, golden-brown
hair, and lithe form, ascending with elastic
step. Behind her, the thick-set, firm,
resolute figure of the elder man, with dark,
impassive, immobile features, bold dark
e3^es, and firm lips, moving as though prepared
to meet opposition and ready to
overcome it. Last, the tall, lank, angular

form of the young widower, with plain,
almost ugly, face, deep-set eyes, snub nose,
dull complexion, and long melancholy dun
beard, flowing like a widow's streamers in
two thin scarves behind him. Here were
three faces, one of which was always alight,
a second which could never light, and a
third usually dull and dead, but which
could liojit at will.

This is the sitting-room," said Hetty,
standing at the threshold. " You said you
would prefer having the back room furnished
as the sitting room, Alfred told
me."

Yes, certainly, the back for the sitting-room,"
said Crawford, as they entered.
He looked round sharply with somewhat
the same surprising quickness of glance
which had greeted Eed Jim's question at
the door. It conveyed the idea of a man
at once curious and on his Guard.

His survey seemed to satisfy him, for he
ceased to occupy himself with the room,
and said, turning to the brother and sister,
with a short laugh, " This, as you know,
is my first visit to Crawford Street. I had
no notion what kind of a place it was ;
and when I am here, two or three days in
the month, and a week additional each
quarter, I should like to be quiet and
much to myself. I don't, of course, my
dear Mr. Layard, mean with regard to
your sister and you," he bowed, " but the
people all round. They are not a very
nice class of people, are they ? " with a
shrug of his shoulders at people who were
not very nice.

"There are no people at all near us,"
answered Layard cheerfully. " No one
else lives in the street, and we have the
canal, or rather the Bay, at the back."

Capital ! capital ! " cried Crawford ina

spiritless voice, though he rubbed his
hands as if enjoying himself immensely.
"You, saving for the presence of Miss
Layard and your little boy, whose acquaintance,
by the way, I have not yet
made, are a kind of Robinson Crusoe
here."

! " cried Hetty, running to the window
and pointing out, "the real Robinson
Crusoe is here." *

Where ? I hope he has Man Friday,
parrot, and all;" walking to the window,
where they stood looking out, the girl,
with her round arm, pointing into the
gathering dusk. In the window-place,
they were almost face to face. Instead of
instantly following the direction of Hetty's
arm, he followed the direction of his
thoughts, and while her eyes were gazing
out of the window, his were fixed upon
her face.

There," she said, upon finding his eyes
Averse not in the direction of her hand.

I beg your pardon," he said, " but I can
see no one."

He was now looking out of the window.

"But you can see his island."

Again I beg your pardon, but I can see
no island,"

What you see there is an island. That
is not the tow-path right opposite : that is
Boland's Ait."

Boland's Ait ! Yes, I have heard of
Boland's Ait. I have nothing to do with
it, I believe ? " he turned to Layard.

I think not."

0, no ! " said the girl laughing ; " the
whole island is the property of Mr. Francis
Bramwell, a most mysterious man, who is
either an astrologer, or an author, or a
pirate, or something wonderful and romantic."


Why' cried her brother in amused surprise,
" where on earth did you get this information
? "

From Mrs. Grainger, whom you sent to
help me to-day. Mrs. Grainger knows the
history of the whole neighbourhood from
the time of Adam."

The place cannot have existed so long,"
said Crawford, with another of his short
laughs ; " for it shows no sign of having
been washed even as far back as the Flood.
Is your Crusoe old or young?"

Young, I am told, and handsome. I
assure you the story is quite romantic."

And is there much more of the story of
this Man Friday, or whatever he is ? " asked
Crawford carelessly, as he moved away from
the window towards the door.

Well," said she, " that is a good deal to
begin with ; and then it is said he has
been ruined by some one or other, or something

or other, either betting on horses or
buying shares in railways to the moon, and
that he did these foolish things because his
wife ran away from him ; and now he lives
all alone on his island, and leaves it vers
seldom, and never has any visitors, or hardly
any, and is supposed to be writing a book
proving that woman is a mistake and ought
to be abolished."

The brute ! " interpolated Crawford,
bowing to Hetty, as though in protest against
any one who could say an unkind thing of
the sex to which she belonged.

Isn't it dreadful ? " cried the girl in a
tone of comic distress. She was still standing
by the window, one cheek and side of her
golden-brown hair illumined by the fading
light, and her blue eyes dancing with mischievous
excitement. " And they say that,
much as he hates women, he hates men

more."

All ! that is a redeeming feature," said
Crawford. " A misanthropic is intelligible,
but a misogynist is a thing beyond reason,
and hateful."

But, Hetty," said Layard, " if the man
lives so very much to himself and does not
leave his house, how is all tJiis known ? "

Why, because all the women have not
been abolished yet. Do you fancy there
ever was a mystery a woman could not find
out ? It is the business of women to fathom ■
mysteries. I'll engage that before we area
week here I shall know twice as much as
I do now of our romantic neighbour."

And then," said Crawford, showing
signs of flagging interest, and directing his
attention once more to the arrangement of
the room, " perhaps Miss Layard will follow
this Crusoe's example, and write a book
against men."

No, no. I like men."

He turned round and looked fully at her.
"And upon my word, Miss Layard," said
lie warmly, " I think you would find a vast
majority of men very willing to reciprocate
the feeling."

Hetty laughed, and so did her brother.

As I explained," said Crawford, " I
shall want these rooms only once a month.
I shall have to look after the property in
this neighbourhood. I think I shall take
a leaf out of our friend Crusoe's book,
and keep very quiet and retired. I care to
be known in this neighbourhood as little
as possible. There is property of another
kind in town. It, too, requires my personal
supervision. I shall make this place my
head-quarters, and keep what changes of
clothes I require here. It is extremely unlikely
I shall have any visitors. By the
way, in what direction does Camberwell lie ?"
He asked the question with an elaborate

carelessness which did not escape Alfred
Layard.

Up there," said Layard, waving his left
hand in a southerly direction.

Once more Crawford approached the window.
This time he leaned out, resting his
hand on the sill.

In front of him lay Boland's Ait, a little
island about a hundred yards long and forty
yards wide in the middle, tapering off to
a point at either end. Beyond the head oi
the island, pointing south, the tow-path was
visible, and beyond the tail of the island the
tow-path again, and further off Welford
Bridge, lying north.

Hetty was leaning against the wainscot of
the old-fashioned deep embrasure.

Does that tow-path lead to Camberwell
? " asked Crawford.

Yes," answered the girl, making a
gesture to the left.

VOL. I. 3

Is it much frequented ? " asked he in a
voice he tried to make commonplace, but
from which he could not banish the hint of
anxiety.

"■' 0, no, very few people go along it."
"But now, I suppose, people sometimes
come from that direction," waving his left
hand, " for a walk ? "

Well," said the girl demurely, " the
scenery isn't very attractive ; but there is
nothing to prevent people coming, if they
pay the toll."

0, there is a toll ? " he said in a tone of
relief, as if the knowledge of such a barrier
between him and Camberwell were a source
of satisfaction to him.

Yes ; a halfpenny on weekdays and a
penny on Sundays."

He leaned further out. The frame of the
window shook slightly. "We must have
this woodwork fixed," he said a little

peevishly. " What building is this hereon
your left? — a store of some kind with
the gates off."

That's the empty ice-house. It belongs
to you, I believe."

Ah ! the empty ice-house. So it is. I
never saw an ice-house before."

*' It is full of water," said the girl, again
drawing on the charwoman's store of local
information. " It makes me quite uncomfortable
to think of it." «

The man, bending out of the window,
shuddered, and shook the window frame
sharply. " There seems to be a great deal
of water about here, and it doesn't look
very ornamental."

"No," said Hetty; "but it's very useful."


Crawford's eyes were still directed to the

left, but not at so sharp an angle as to

command a view of the vacant ice-house.

3—2

He was gazing across the head of the island
at the tow-path.

Suddenly he drew in with a muttered
imprecation ; the window frame shook violently,
and a large piece of mortar fell and
struck him on the nape of the neck. He
sprang back with a second half-uttered
malediction, and stood bolt upright a pace
from the window, but did not cease to gaze
across the head of the island.

Aloof the tow-death a tall man was advancing
rapidly, swinging his arms in a
remarkable manner as he walked.

No, no, not hurt to speak of," he
answered, with a hollow laugh, in reply to
a question of Layard's, still keeping his
e3^es fixed on the tow-path visible beyond
Boland's Ait. " The mortar has got down
my back. I shall change my coat and get
rid of the mortar. My portmanteau has
come, I perceive. Thank you, I am not

hurt. Good evening for the present," he
added, as brother and sister moved towards
the door.

Although he did not stir further from
the window, they saw he was in haste they
should be gone, so thfiy hurried away, shutting
the door behind them.

When they had disappeared he went back
to the window, and muttered in a hoarse
voice : " I could have sworn it was Philip
Eay — Philip Eay, her brother, who registered
an oath he would shoot me whenever
or wherever he met me, and he is the man
to keep his word. He lives at Camberwell.
It must have been he. If it was he, in a
few minutes he will come out on the tow-path
at the other end of the island ; in two
minutes — in three minutes at the very outside
— he must come round the tail of the
island, and then I can make sure whether
it is Philip Ray or not. He will be only

half the distance from me that he was
before, and there will be light enough to
make sure."

He waited two, three, four, five minutes
quarter of an hour, but from behind
neither end of the island did the man
emerge on the tow-path. There could be
no doubt of this, for from where he stood a
long stretch of the path was visible north
and south beyond the island, and William
Crawford's eyes swung from one end of the
line to the other as frequently as the pendulum
of a clock.

At length, when half-an-hour had passed,
and it was almost dark, he became restless,
excited, and in the end went down-stairs.
In the front room he found Layard on
the top of a step-ladder. He said :

I was looking out of my window, and a
man, coming from the northern end of the
tow-path, disappeared behind the island.

behind Boland's Ait. He has not come
back and he has not come out at the other
end. Where can he have gone ? Is there
some way of getting off the tow-path between
the two points?" The speaker's
manner was forced into a form of pleasant
wonder ; but there were strange white lines,
like lines of fear, about his mouth and the
corners of his eyes. "Is there a gate or
way off the tow-path ? "

No. The man must have come off thee
tow-path or gone into the water and been
drowned," said Layard, not noticing anything
peculiar in the other, and answering
half-playfully.

That would be too good," cried Crawford
with a start, apparently taken off his
guard.

Eh ? " cried Layard, facing round suddenly.
He was in the act of driving ina
brass-headed nail. The fervour in Crawford's

tone caught his ear and made him
suspend the blow he was about to deliver.

0, nothing," said the other, with one of
his short laughs. " A bad-natured joke. I
meant it would be too much of a joke to
think a man could be drowned in such a
simple way. But this man hid himself
behind the island and did not come forth at
either end for half-an-hour, and I thought
I'd ask you what you thought, as the circumstance
piqued me. Good-night."

When he found himself in his own room
he closed the window, pulled down the
blind, hasped the shutters, and drew the
curtains. lie looked round on the simple
unpretending furniture suspiciously, and
muttered :

He here — if it were he, and I think it
was, appearing and disappearing in such
a way ! He cannot have found me out ?
Curse him, curse her ; ay, curse her ! Is

not that all over now ? She was to blame,
too."

He walked up and down the room for
an hour.

"If that was Philip Eay, where did he
go to ? He seems to have vanished.
Layard knows every foot of this place. It
was Philip Eay, and he did vanish ! Could
he have seen me and recognised me ? or
could he have tracked me, and is he now
out on that little quay or wharf under my
window, waiting for me ? Ugh ! "

THE PINE GROVES OF LEEHAM.

Below London Bridge, and just at the end
of the Pool, the Thames makes a sharp
bend north, and keeps this course for
close on a mile. Then it sweeps in a
gentle curve eastward for half a mile ;
after this it suddenly turns south, and keeps
on in a straight line for upwards of a
mile. The part of London bounded on
three sides by these sections of the river
is not very densely populated if the
acreage is considered. Much of it is
taken up with the vast system of the
Mercantile Docks ; large spaces are wholly
unbuilt on ; the South London Canal, its
tow-path, and double row of wharves and

yards, cover a large area ; and one of the
most extensive gasworks in the metropolis
and a convergence of railway lines take
up space to the exclusion of people.
There are stretches of this district as lonely
by night as the top of Snowdon.
• Little life stirs by day on the canal ;
after dark the waters and the tow-path
are as deserted as a village graveyard.
Along the railroad by day no human foot
travels but the milesian's, and at night
the traffic falls off to a mere echo of its
incessant mighty roar by day. The gasworks
are busy, and glowing and flaming
and throbbing all through the hours of
gloom and darkness, but people cannot
get near them. They are enclosed by
high walls on all sides except one, and
on that side lies the South London Canal,
which crawls and crawls unfastened and
unrefreshed by the waters of any lock.

The solitude of the tow-path after dark is
enhanced at the point where it passes
opposite the gasworks by the appearance
of life across the water, and the impossibility
of reaching that life, touching the
human hands that labour there, receiving
aid from kindly men if aid were needed.
The tow-path at this point is narrow and
full of fathomless shadows, in which outcasts,
thieves, and murderers might lurk ;
deep doorways, pilasters, and ruined warehouses,
where misery or crime could hide
or crouch.

But of all the loneliness by night in this
region which is vaguely styled the Mercantile
Docks, the deepest, the most affecting,
the most chilling is that which dwells
in the tortuous uninhabited approaches
leading from the docks to the river north
and south, and east and west from Hertford
to Eotherhithe.

Out of the same spirit of mocking
humour which gave the name of Boland's
Ait to the little island in the canal,
these solitary ways are called the Pine
Groves. The pine-wood which gives them
their name has ceased to be a landscape
ornament many years, and now stands
upright about ten feet high on either side
of the roads, in the form of tarred planks.

There are miles of this monotonous
black fencing, with no house or gate
to break the depressing sameness. By
day the Pine Groves are busy with the
rumble of heavy traffic from the docks
and wharves ; by night they are as deserted
as the crypt of St. Paul's.

Between the great gasworks and the
docks, and at a point upon which the canal,
the main railways, and three of these Pine
Groves converge, there is an oasis of houses,
a colony of men, a village, as it were, in

this desert made by man in the interest
of trade and commerce. This patch of
inhabited ground supports at most two
hundred houses. The houses are humble,
but not squalid. The inhabitants are not
longshore-men, nor are they mostly connected
with the sea or things maritime.
They seem to be apart and distinct from
the people found within a rifle-shot of the
place. Although they are no farther thana
thousand yards from Welford Bridge, to
judge by their manners and speech, they
are so much better mannered, civilised,
and refined, that a thousand years and a
thousand miles might lie between them
and the long-horsemen and loafers from
whom William Crawford had been supplied
with a guide in Eed Jim. This oasis in the
desert of unbuilt space, this refuge from
the odious solitude bv niofht of the Pine
Groves, this haunt of Arcadian respectability

ill the midst of squalid and vicious surroundings,
is honoured in the neighbourhood
by the name of Leeham, and is almost
wholly unknown in any other part of
London. It will not do to say it has
been forgotten, for it has never been borne
in memory. The tasman and the gasman
and the waterman, and the people who
own houses there, know Leeham ; but no
other general outsiders. It is almost as
much isolated from the rest of London as
the Channel Islands.

It has not grown or diminished since
the railway was built. No one ever
thinks of pulling down an old house or
building up a new one. Time-worn brass
knockers are still to be found on the
doors, and old-fashioned brass fenders and
fire irons on the hearths within. Families
never seem to move out of the district,
and it never recruits its population from

the outer world. Now and then, indeed,
a young man of Leeham may bring
home a bride from one of the neighbouring
tribes ; but this is not often. A whole
family is imported never. It is the most
unprogressive spot in all her Majesty's
dominions.

At first it seems impossible to account
for so respectable a settlement in so squalid
and savage a district. Who are the people
of Leeham ? And how do they live ?
When first put, the question staggers one.
Most of the houses are not used for trade.
Indeed, except at the point where the
three Pine Groves meet, there is hardly a
shop in the place. Where the East and
West and Eiver Pine Groves meet, there
stands a cluster of shops, not more thana
dozen, and the one public-house of
Leeham, the Neptune. But the name of
this house is the only thing in the business

district telling of the sea. Here is no
maker of nautical instruments, no marine-store
dealer, no curiosity shop for the
purchase of the spoil of other climes
brought home by Jack Tar, no music-hall
or singing saloon, no slop-shop, no cheap
photographer.

Here are a couple of eating-houses, noticeable
for low prices and wholesome food ; a
butcher's, and two beef-and-ham shops, two
grocers', and a green grocer's, two bakers',
and an oil-and-colour man's. These, with
the Neptune, or nucleus, form by night the
brightly lighted business region of the settlement.
This point is called the Cross.

Leeham repudiated the sea, and would
have nothing to do with it at any price.
Down by the docks the sea may be profitable,
but it has not a good reputation. It
is inclined to be rowdy, disreputable. Jack
Tar ashore may not be worse than other

VOL. I. 4

men, but he is more noisy and less observant
of convention. He is too much given to
frolic. He is not what any solid man would
call respectable.

No one ever thought of impugning the
respectability, as a class, of gasmen or railway
officials. In fact, both are bound to be
respectable. Leeham had, no doubt, some
mysterious internal resources, but its chief
external dependence was on the enormous
gasworks and the railway hard by. Hundreds
of men were employed in the gas-house
and on the railway, and Leeham
found a roof and food for three-fourths of
the number. There were quiet houses for
those whose means enabled them to keep up
a separate establishment, and cheap lodgings
for those who could afford only a single
room. No man living in a dwelling-house
of Leeham was of good repute unless he had
private means, or was employed at either

the railway-yard or the gasworks — called,
for the sake of brevity, the yard and the
works. But it was a place in which many
widows and spinsters had their homes, and
sought to eke out an income from the
savings of their dead husbands, fathers, or
brothers, by some of the obscure forms of
industry open to women of small needs and
very small means.

The green grocer's shop at Leeham Cross,
opposite the Neptune, was owned by Mrs.
Pemberton, an enormously fat, very florid
widow of fifty. She almost invariably wore
a smile on her expansive countenance, and
was well known in the neighbourhood for
her good nature and good temper. In fact,
she was generally spoken of as " Mrs. Pemberton,
that good-natured soul." The children
all idolised her ; for when they came
of errands to buy, or for exercise and safety
and a sight of the world with their mothers,

Mrs. Pemberton never let them go away
empty-handed as long as there was a small
apple, or a bunch of currants, or a couple
of nuts m the shop.

On that evening late in May when Eed
Jim showed Crawford the way to Crawford's
House, Mrs. Pemberton stood at her shop
door. She held her arms akimbo, and
looked up and down the Cross with the expression
of one who does not notice what
she sees, and who is not expecting anything
from the direction in which she is looking.
The stout florid woman standing at the door
of the green grocer's was as unlike the ordinary
Mrs. Pemberton as it was in the power
of a troubled mind to make her. At this
hour very few people passed Leeham Cross,
and for a good five minutes no one had
gone by her door.

Mrs. Pemberton had not remained constantly
at the door. Once or twice she

stepped back for a moment, and threw her
head on one side, and held her ear up as if
listening intently ; then, with a sigh, she
came back to her post at the threshold.
There must have been something very
unusual in the conditions of her life to
agitate this placid sympathetic widow so
much.

Presently a woman of fine presence came
in view, hastening towards the greengrocery.
This was Mrs. Pearse, a widow like Mrs.
Pemberton, and that good lady's very good
friend.

I needn't ask you ; I can see by your
face," said Mrs. Pearse, as she came up.
"She is no better."

She is much worse," said Mrs. Pemberton
in a half-frightened, half-tearful way ;
she is dying."

Dying ! " said the other woman. " I
didn't think it would come to that."

Well, it hurts me sore to say it, but I
don't think she'll live to see the morning."

So bad as that ? Well, Mrs. Pemberton,
I am sorry. Along with everything else, I
am sorry for the trouble it will give you."

! don't say anything about that ; I
am only thinking of the poor lady herself.
She's going fast, as far as I am a judge.
And then, what's to become of the child ?
Poor innocent little fellow ! he has no notion
of what is happening. How could he ? he's
little more than a baby of three or four."

Poor little fellow ! I do pity him. Has
she said anything to you ? "

"Not a word."

Not even told you her name ? "

"No."

Does she know, Mrs. Pemberton, how
bad she is ? Surely, if she knew the truth
of her state of health, she'd say a word to
you, if it was only for the child's sake. She

would not die, if she knew lie was dying,
and say nothing that could be of use to her
little boy."

You see, when the doctor was here this
morning, he told her she was dangerously
ill, but he did not tell her there was no
hope. So I did my best to put a good face
on the matter, and tried to persuade the
poor thing that she'd be on the mending
hand before nightfall. But she has got
worse and worse all day, and I am sure
when the doctor comes (I'm expecting him
every minute) he'll tell her she's not long
for this world. It's my opinion she won't
last the night."

Dear, dear, dear ! — but I'm sorry."
Here he is. Here's the doctor ! "
"I'll run home now, Mrs. Pemberton, and
give the children their supper. I'll come
back in an hour to hear what the doctor
says, and to do anything for you I can."

Thank you ! Thank you, Mrs. Pearse !
I shall be very glad to see you, for I am
grieved and half-terrified."

I'll be sure to come. Try to bear up,
Mrs. Pemberton," said kind-hearted Mrs.
Pearse, hurrying off just as the doctor came
up to the door.

True to her promise, Mrs. Pearse was
back at the Cross. By this time the shutters
of Mrs. Pemberton's shop were up ; but the
door stood ajar. Mrs. Pearse pushed it open
and entered.

Mrs. Pemberton was sitting on a chair,
surrounded by hampers and baskets of fruit
and vegetables, in the middle of the shop.
She was weeping silently, unconsciously,
the lahore tears rolling? down her round florid
face. Her hands were crossed in her lap.
Her eyes were wide open, and her whole
appearance that of one in helpless despair.

When she saw her visitor come in, she

rose with a start, brushed the tears out of
her eyes, and cried, seizing the hand of the
other woman and pressing her down on a
chair :

I am so glad to see you, Mrs. Pearse !
It is so good of you to come ! I am in sore
distress and trouble ! "

"There, dear!" said the visitor in soothing
tones. "Don't take on like that. All
may yet be well. What does the doctor
say about the poor soul P "

"All will never be well again for her.
The doctor says she is not likely to see
another day, short as these nights are.
my — my heart ! but it grieves me to
think of her going, and she so young. And
to think of what a pretty girl she must have
been ; to think of how handsome she must
have been before the trouble, whatever it
is, came upon her and wore her to a
shadow."

'* And I suppose lie has not opened
her mind to you even yet about this
trouble ? "

The question was not asked out of idle
curiosity, but from deep-seated interest in
the subject of the conversation. For this
was not the first or the tenth talk these two
kindly friends had about the sick woman
upstairs.

She has said no more to me than the
dead. My reading of it is, that she made a
bad match against the will of her people,
and that her husband deserted her and her
child."

And what about the boy ? Does the
poor sufferer know how bad she is ? "

Yes ; she knows that there's not any
hope, and the doctor told me to be prepared
for the worst, and that she might die
in a couple of hours. Poor soul! I shall
be sorry ! "

Mrs. Pemberton threw her apron over
her head, and wept and sobbed; Mrs.
Pearse weeping the while for company.

When Mrs. Pemberton was able to control
herself, she drew down her apron and
said :

I never took to any other lodger I had
so much as I took to this poor woman. Her
loneliness and her sorrow made me feel to
her as if she had been my own child. Then
I know she must be very poor, although she
always paid me to the minute. But bit by
bit I have missed whatever little jewellery
she had, and now I think all is gone. But
she is not without money ; for, when I was
talking to her just now, she told me that
she had enough in her work box to pay all
expenses. 0, Mrs. Pearse, it is hard to hear
the poor young thing talking in that way of
going, and I, who must be twice her age,
well and hearty ! "

Again the good woman broke down and
lead to pause in her story.

She told me no one should be at any
expense on her account ; and as for the boy,
she said she knew a gentleman, one who
had been a friend of hers years ago, and
that he would surely take charge of the
child, and that she had sent word to a
trusty messenger to come and fetch the boy
to this friend, and that she would not see or
hear from any one who knew her in her
better days. I can't make it out at all.
There is something hidden, some mystery
in the matter."

Mystery, Mrs. Pemberton ? Of course
there is. But, as you say, most likely she
made a bad match, and is afraid to meet
her people, and has been left to loneliness
and sorrow and poverty by a villain of a
husband. She hasn't made away with her
wedding-ring, has she ? "

No ; nor with the keeper. But I think
all else is gone in the way of jewellery. I
left Susan, the servant, with her just now.
She said she wished to be quiet for a while,
as she wanted to write a letter. Now that
the shop is shut I can't bear to be away
from her, and when I am in the room I can't
bear to see her with her poor swollen red
face, and I don't think she is always quite
right in her mind, for the disease has
spread, and the doctor says she can hardly
last the night. Poor, poor young creature ! "

Here for the third time, kind sympathetic
Mrs. Pemberton broke down, and for some
minutes neither of the women spoke.

At length Mrs. Pemberton started and
rose from her chair, saying hastily :

She must have finished the letter. I
hear Susan coming down the stairs."

The girl entered the shop quickly and
with an alarmed face.

The lady wants to see you at once,
ma'am. She seems in a terrible hurry, and
looks much worse."

Mrs. Pemberton hastened out of the shop,
asking Mrs. Pearse to wait.

In a few minutes she returned, carrying
a letter in her hand, and wearing a look of
intense trouble and perplexity on her honest
face.

I am sure," she said, throwing herself
on a chair, "I do not know whether I am
asleep or awake, or whether I am to believe
my eyes and my ears. Do you know where
she told me she is sending the child now —
to-night — for she cannot die easy until 'tis
done."

"I cannot tell. Where?"

I heard her say the words quite plainly,
but I could not believe my ears. The words
are quite plain on this letter, though they
are written in pencil, but I cannot believe

my eyes. Head what is on this envelope,
and I shall know whether I have lost my
reason or not. That's where she says the
child is to go. This is the old friend
she says will look after the little boy! "

She handed the letter she held in her hand
to her friend. Mrs. Pearse read :

Francis Bramwell, Esq.,
Boland's Ait,

South London Canal."

THE MISSING MAN.

It was near ten o'clock that night before
Alfred Layard and his sister gave up trying
to get their new home into order. Even
then much remained to be done, but Mrs.
Grainger, the charwoman who had been
assisting Hetty all day, had to go home to
prepare supper for her husband, and when
she was gone the brother and sister sat
down to their own.

Alfred Layard was employed in the gasworks.
His duties did not oblige him to beat
business early ; but they kept him there
until late in the evening. He had a very
small salary, just no more than enough to
live on in strict economy. He had rented

a little cottage during his brief married life,
and the modest furniture in the room where
the brother and sister now sat at supper had
been bought for his bride's home out of his
savings. Just as his lease of the cottage
expired he heard of this house, and that
the owner or agent would be glad to let it
at a rent almost nominal on the condition
of two rooms being reserved and kept in
order for him.

The place just suited Layard. It was*
within a short distance of the gas-house, and
he calculated that the arrangement would
save him twenty pounds a-year.

Well, Hetty," said he, with one of his
surprisingly pleasant smiles, as the supper
went on, " how do you like the life of a
lodging-house keeper ? "

So far I like it very much indeed, although
I have had no chance of pillage yet."

Never mind the pillage for a while. I

VOL. I. 5

must see If there is any handbook published
on the subject of the ' Lodger Pigeon.' I
am not quite sure there is a book of the
kind. I have a notion the art is traditional,
handed down by word of mouth, and that
you have to be sworn of the guild or something
of that kind. Before we had our
knockdown in the world, in father's time,
when I lived in lodgings in Bloomsbury, I
knew a little of the craft — as a victim, mind
you ; but now I have forgotten all about it,
except that neither corks nor stoppers had
appreciable effect in retarding the evaporation
of wine or spirits, and that fowl or game
or meat always went too bad twelve hours
after it was cooked to be of further use
to me. Tea also would not keep in the
insalubrious air of Bloomsbury."

Well," said the girl with a smile, " I
suppose I must only live in hope. I cannot:
expect to be inspired. It would, perhaps.

be unreasonable to expect that the sight of
our first lodger for half-an-hour would make
me perfect m the art of turning him to good
account. It is a distressing thing to feel
one is losing one's opportunity ; but then,
what is one to do ? " she asked pathetically,
spreading out her hands to her brother in
comic appeal.

It is hard," said he with anxiety ; then
brightening he added, "Let us pray for
better times, better luck, more light. By
the way, Hetty, now that we have fully arranged
our method of fleecing the stranger,
what do you think of him ? How do you
find him ? Do you like him ? "

I find him very good-looking and agreeable."


I hope there is no danger of your falling
in love with him. Eemember, he is a
married man," said the brother, shaking a
minatory finger at the girl opposite him;

and bear in mind bigamy is a seven years'
affair."

^ " It's very good of you to remind me,
Alfred," she said gravely. " But as I have,
not been married, I don't see how I could
commit bigamy."

"• You are not qualified yet to commit
it yourself, but you might become an
accessory."

'* By the way, Alfred, now that I think of
it," said she, dropping her playful manner
and looking abstracted and thoughtful, with
a white finger on her pink cheek, " I did
notice a remarkable circumstance about our
new lodger. Did you ? "

No," said the brother, throwing himself
back in his chair and looking at the ceiling,
except that he has a habit of winking both
his eyes when he is in thought, which always
indicates a man fond of double-dealing.
Don't you see, Hetty? — one eye winked.

single-dealing ; two eyes, double-dealing.
What can be more natural ? There is one
thing about trade I can never make out.
Book-keeping by double-entry is an interesting,
respectable, and laudable affair, and yet
double-dealing is little short of infamous."

I don't understand what you are saying,
Alfred," said the girl in a voice of reproach
and despair. " I don't think you know
yourself, and I am sure it's nonsense."

"Yes, dear." *

"No; I'm not joking," she cried impatiently.
" I did observe something very
remarkable about Mr. Crawford under the
circumstances. Did you not notice he never
spoke of his wife, or even referred to her,
although he got all this property through
her or from her ? "

Layard looked down from the dingy ceil-iii.
" Of course, you are right, child. I
did not notice it at the time ; but now I

recollect he neither spoke of his wife nor
made any reference to her. It was strange.
And now that I think of it, he did not upon
our previous meeting. It is strange. I
suppose he is ashamed to own he owes
everything to his wife."

Well," said the girl hotly, " if he had
the courage to take her money he might
have the courage to own it, particularly ashe
is aware we know all about him."

All about him ? " said the brother in
surprise. " Indeed, we don't know all about
him ; we know very little about him — that
is, unless this wonderful wife of Grainger
told you."

"No ; she told me nothing about him.
But we know that the money belonged to
Mrs. Crawford and not to him, and that he
changed his name to marry the widow, as
otherwise her property would go somewhere
else."

To Guy's Hospital. But it would not
go to the hospital if she remained unmarried.
The fact of the matter is, I believe,
that this Crawford — I mean the original one
was a self-made man, and very proud of
his own achievements, and wished to keep
his name associated with his money as long
as possible. You see, when he married he
was an elderly, if not an old man, and his
wife was a young and very handsome woman.
Now she is middle-aged and an invalid."

Then," cried Hetty with sprightly wrath,
I think it the more shameful for him to
make no allusion to her. But you have not
told me all the story. Tell it to me now,
there's a good, kind dear Alfred. But first
I'll clear away, and run up for a moment
to see how Freddie is in his new quarters.
He was so tired after the day that he fell
asleep before his head touched the pillow."

She found the boy sleeping deeply in his

cot beside her own bed. She tucked him
in, although the clothes had not been disarranged,
and then bent down over him,
laying her forearm all along his little body,
and, drawing him to her side, kissed him
first on the curls and then on the cheek and
then smoothed with her hand the curl she
had kissed, as though her tender lips had
disturbed it. After this she ran down
quickly, and, entering the sitting-room, said,
as she took her chair, " He hasn't stirred
since I put him to bed, poor chap. I hope he
won't find this place very lonely. He will
not even see another child here. And now,
Alfred," she added, taking up some work,
tell me all you know about our lodger, for
I have heard little or nothing yet."

Well, what I know is soon told. His old
name was Goddard, William Goddard. He
came to hive at Eichmond some time ago,
and lodged next door to Mrs. Crawford's

house. She was then an invalid, suffering
from some affection which almost deprived
her of the use of her limbs. She went out
only in a carriage or Bath-chair. He met
her frequently, and became acquainted with
her, often walking beside her in her Bath-chair.
Her bedroom was on the first floor
of her house ; his was on the first floor of
the next house. One night the lower part
of her house caught fire. He crept on a
stone ledge running along both houses at
the level of the first floor window. He had
a rope, and by it lowered her down into the
garden and saved her life, every one said.
The shock, strange to say, had a beneficial
effect upon her health. She recovered
enough strength to be able to walk about,
and — she married him."

The girl paused in her work, dropping
her hands and her sewing, and falling into
a little reverie, with her head on one side.

So that he is a kind of hero," she said
softly.

Yes ; a kind of hero. I don't think his
risk was very great, for he could have
joined at any time, and got off with a
broken leg or so."

"A broken leg or so!" cried she
indignantly. " Upon my word, Alfred,
you do take other people's risks coolly.
I don't wonder at her marrying him, and
I am very sorry I said anything against
him awhile ago. The age of chivalry
is not gone. Now, if she was young
and good-looking — but forty and an
invalid "

And very rich," interrupted the brother,
stretching himself out on the infirm couch
and blowing a great cloud of smoke from
his briar-root pipe.

Your cynicism is intolerable, Alfred.
It is most unmanly and ungenerous, and I

for one have made up my mind to like, to
admire Mr. "

A knock at the door prevented her finishing
the sentence.

<' Come in," cried Layard, springing up
and moving towards the door.

'• I am afraid it is a most unreasonable
hour to disturb you."

"Not at all," said Layard, setting a chair
for the lodger. "My sister and I were
merely chatting. We are not early people,
you must know. I haven't to be at the
works until late, so we generally have our
little talks nearer to midnight than most
people. Pray sit down."

Crawford sat down somewhat awkwardly,
winking both his eyes rapidly as he did so.
He gave one of his short sharp laughs.

You will think me very foolish, no
doubt," he said, looking from one to the
other and winking rapidly, " but, do you

know, what you said about that man going
into the canal has had a most unaccountable
and unpleasant effect upon me. I
feel quite unnerved. As you are aware, I
am not acquainted with the neighbourhood.
Would it be asking too much of you, Mr.
Layard, to go out with me for a few
minutes and ascertain for certain that no
accident has befallen this man — that is, if
Miss Layard would not be afraid of being
left alone for a little while ? If my mind
is not set at rest I know I shall not sleep
a wink to-night."

"Afraid? Afraid of what, Mr. Crawford
? Good gracious, I am not afraid of
anything in the world," cried the girl,
rising. " Of course Alfred will go with
you."

Layard expressed his willingness, and ina
short time the two men were out of the
house in the dark lane, where burned only

one lamp at the end furthest from the
main road.

I do not know how we are to fid out
about this man," said Layard, as they
turned from the blind street into Welford
Eoad ; " could you describe him ? "

Layard thought Crawford must be a very
excitable and somewhat eccentric man to
allow himself to be troubled by a purely
playful speech as to the pedestrian on the
tow-path ; but he felt he had been almost
unjust to Crawford when talking to his
sister, and he was anxious for this reason,
and because of a desire to conciliate his
lodger, to gratify him by joining in this
expedition, which he looked on as absurd.

Yes ; I can describe him. He wore a
black tail-coat, a round black hat, a black
tie, and dark tweed trousers. He was
nearer your height and build than mine.
The chief things in his face are a lone

straight nose, dark and very straight brows,
and dark eyes. He has no colour in his
cheeks."

Layard drew up in amazement.

"Do you mean to say," he asked with
emphasis, " that you could see all this at
such a distance ? "

I," the other answered with a second's
hesitation — " I used a glass."

! " said Layard ; and they resumed
their walk, and nothing further was said
until they came to the bridge, on which
they stood looking up the tow-path, along
which the pedestrian ought to have come.

Layard broke the silence.

"Unless we are to make a commotion,
I don't see what we can do beyond asking
the toll-man. The gate is shut now.
It must be eleven o'clock, and this place
owns an early-tossed population."

He was now beginning to regret his too

easy participation in his lodger's absurd
quest.

Do not let us make any commotion,
but just ask the toll man quietly if such
a man went through his gate," said Crawford
hastily. " I know my uneasiness is
foolish, but I cannot help it."

They turned from the parapet over
which they had been looking, and Layard
led the way a little down the road, and,
then turning sharp to the right, entered
the approach to the toll-house.

As they emerged from the darkness of
the approach, the toll-taker was crossing
the wharf or quay towards the gate.
He passed directly under a lamp, and
opened the gate which closed the path at
the bridge.

Crawford caught Layard by the arm,
and held him back, whispering :

Wait ! "

From the gloom of the arch a young
man stepped out into the light of the lamp.
He wore a black tailed-coat, a black tie,
a black round hat, and dark tweed trousers.
His nose was straight, and his brows remarkably
dark and straight. Upon the
whole, a young man of rather gloomy
appearance.

It's all right," whispered Crawford
quickly into Layard's ear ; " that's the
man. Come away."

He drew his companion forcibly along
the approach back to the road.

It's well I didn't make a fool of myself,"
he whispered. " Come on quickly. I am
ashamed even to meet this man after my
childish fears."

They were clear of the approach, and
retracing their steps over the bridge, before
the pedestrian emerged from the darkness
of the approach. When he gained Wei-ford

Eoad he went on straight — that is,
in a direction opposite to that taken by
the two.

I am greatly relieved," said Crawford,
rubbing his perspiring forehead with his
handkerchief.

I am not," thought Layard. " I am
afraid there is something wrong with
Crawford's upper storey."

->3iGle-<-

VOL. I.

A SECOND APPARITION.

When Alfred Layard got back to the house
he was far from easy in his mind about
his lodger. In appearance Crawford was
the least imaginative man in the world.
His face, figure, and manner indicated extreme
practicalness. 'No man could have
less of the visionary or the seer about him.
One would think he treated all things in
life as a civil engineer treats things encountered
in his profession. And yet here
was this man giving way to absurd and
sentimental timidity about nothing at all.
Of course, Layard himself would have
been greatly shocked if he thought any
harm had come to that solitary pedestrian

on the tow-path ; but not one man in a
thousand would have allowed the circumstance
of the man's non-appearance and
the jesting words he himself had used
to occupy mind ^yq minutes, to say
nothing of suffering anxiety because of the
circumstance, and sallying out to make
inquiries and clear it up.

He did not bargain for such eccentricity
as this when he agreed to live for a few
days a month under the same roof with
William Crawford. He would say nothing
to Hetty of his fears, or rather uneasiness
; but it would be necessary for him
to suggest precautions.

When Crawford had bidden the brother
and sister good-night finally, and the two
were again alone in the front sitting-room,
and Alfred had told Hetty, with no alarming
comment, what had occurred since

they left the house, she cried, " Now,

6—2

sceptic, what have you to say? Could
anything be more humane or kind-hearted
than the interest he took in that unknown
man, a man he could absolutely have never
seen once in all his life ? You were in the
act of implying that he saved the widow
because she was rich, and married her
because she was rich, when, lo ! Sir Oracle,
down comes Mr. Crawford to see what had
happened to that man, the unknown man !
Tell me, was he rich ? Is he going to
marry him ? "

I confess things look very black for my
theory," said the brother from the couch,
where he lay smoking placidly.

I do believe," she cried with animation,
that you are rather sorry he turned out
so nobly. I do believe you would rather
he showed no interest in that man on the
tow-path."

"Candidly, Hetty, I would."

It is all jealousy on your part, and you
ought to be ashamed of yourself. Are you ? "

No — o — o," he said slowly, " I can t
say I am much ashamed of myself on that
account."

'* Then," she said, " it is worse not to
repent than to sin, and your condition is
something dreadful. Now, my impressionis
that Mr. Crawford never thought of
money at all when he married his wife. I
believe he married her for pure love, and
the fact of her being an invalid was a
reason for his loving her all the more. Tome
he is a Bayard," cried this enthusiastic
young person with flushing cheek, and eyes
in which the gold glinted more than ever.

He's too stout, my dear," said the
brother placidly from his couch.

What ! " cried she indignantly. " Too
stout to marry for love ! You are outrageous
! "

No ; not to many for love, but to be a
Bayard. You know as well as I do our
lodger would not cut a good figure on
horseback," said the brother with calm
decision.

You are intolerable, Alfred, and I will
not speak to you again on the subject.
Nothing could be in worse taste than what
you have been saying," said the girl, gathering
herself daintily together and looking
away from him.

Besides, you do an injustice to our
lodger."

I wish, Alfred, if you find it necessary
to refer to Mr. Crawford, that you would
do so in some other way than by calling
him our lodger. It is not respectful."

Not respectful to whom ? "

To me," with a very stately inclination
of the gallant little head.

I see. Well, I will call him Mr.

Bayard," said the brother with provoking
amiability.

I am sure, Alfred, I do not know how
you can be so silly."

"Evil communications, my dear."

The gentleman's name is Crawford, and
why should you not call him Crawford ? "

Just to avoid the monotony."

And, I think, Alfred, to annoy me."

Perhaps."

Well, I must say that is very good-natured
of you."

"But I aim at an identical result."

I don't understand you."

To avoid monotony, too. You are
always so good-humoured and soft-tempered
it is a treat to see you ruffled and on your
dignity. But there, Hetty dear, let us
drop this light-comedy sparring "

I'm sure I don't think it's light comedy
at all, but downright disagreeableness ; and

I didn't begin it, and I don't want to keep
it up, and I am sure you have a very
clumsy and unkind notion of humour, if
talking in that way is your idea of it."

Eemember, Hetty," he said, holding up
his hand in warning, " you are much too
big a girl to cry. You are a great deal too
old to cry."

A woman is never too old to cry — if
she likes."

She is, and you are, too old to cry for
anything a brother may say to you. According
to the usage of the best society you
are too old to cry because of anything I
may say to you. It will be your duty to
repress your tears for your lover. According
to good manners you ought not to shed
a tear now until you have your first
quarrel with your lover ; and then, mind
you, I am to hear nothing about it, or it
would be my duty to call the scoundrel

out, Alien there is no knowing but lie
might injure or even kill me, and then you
couldn't marry him, for he would be your
brother's murderer ; and if I killed him
you couldn't marry him, because I should
be his murderer ; and I don't see of what
use we could be to any one, except to write
a tragedy about, and that is about as bad a
use as you can put respectable people to."

The girl's face had been gradually clearing
while Layard spoke, and by the time
he had finished, all trace of annoyance had
vanished from it, and she was bright and
smiling once more.

You are a queer old Alfred, and I
am a fool to allow myself to grow angry
with you or your nonsense. I of course
said too much. I did not mean quite that
I thought him a Bayard."

He's much better-looking than the only
portrait of the Chevalier I ever saw. 1

must say the knight, by his portrait, is
a most repulsive and unchivalrous brute,
more fit for the Chamber of Horrors than
the Hall of Kings. I assure you, Hetty,
Mr. Crawford is a much better-looking
man."

How was he to warn his sister without
alarming her ? To say he thought the man
was not quite right in his mind would
terrify Hetty, and it would not do to leave
her without any caution. At last he could
think of nothing but a most simple and
most matter-of-course caution — that of
locking the door of the room in which
she and the child slept. 'for," thought
Layard, " if there is anything wrong with
his head, although it may now be in the
direction of excessive humanity, later it
may change to be dangerously homicidal."

As they were saying "good-night," he
remarked, as carelessly as he could :

Eemember, Hetty, although we are in
our own house, still it is not all our own."

Of course, I know that, Alfred."

And if Fred cries, you must quiet him
as quickly as possible."

So that Mr. Crawford may not be
disturbed?"

Yes ; and you may as well lock your
door?"

"I will."

And thus they parted, and he felt at
rest ; for even if a paroxysm seized Crawford
in the night, he could do no serious
hurt without making noise enouorli to wake
the others.

At the time that Layard was providing
against a possible manaic in William Crawford,
there was not a saner man within the
four corners of London.

That night passed in perfect peace under
the roof of Alfred Layard. So far as Layard

knew, Crawford had slept the sleep oi
mental and bodily health, and little Freddie
had not awakened once, as his aunt certified
when she came down to breakfast.

Mrs. Grainger, the charwoman whose
services were to be enlisted all the time
Mr. Crawford was in the house, brought
up his breakfast, and carried down news
that the gentleman was arranging his
papers and the rooms generally, as was
only natural and to be expected upon a
gentleman taking up his residence in a
new lodging. Mr. Crawford she found very
civil, but not inclined at all for conversation.
He told Mrs. Grainger he should
ring for her when he wanted her, and she
took the liberty of explaining to the gentleman
that he could not ring for her, because
there was no bell. Upon this the
gentleman said he should put his head over
the balustrade and call to her, if she would

be good enough to favour him with her
name ; which she accordingly did, giving
her Christian name and married name,
and adding, with a view to defying fraud
or personation, her maiden name (Wantage)
also. The only piece of information
he had volunteered to Mrs. Grainger, nee
Wantage, was that he had no intention
of stirring out that day.

Layard did not renew the conversation
of the night before. He was extraordinarily
fond of his beautiful, sprightly, gentle-hearted
sister, and he knew that his badinage
had reduced her almost to tears. He
was grave and tender, and devoted himself
through most of breakfast to his lusty,
restless, yellow-haired boy of three, little
Freddie.

Alfred Layard's duties lay at the works,
not the office, of the great Welford Gas
Company. Hence, although his functions

were those of a clerk, he had not the hours
of a clerk. Years ago the Layardss had
been in a position very different from
that occupied by them now. Then their
father had been a prosperous merchant
in Newcastle, but a series of disasters
had come upon him : a partner failed in
another business, a bank broke, and the
father's health gave way utterly, and he
died leaving absolutely nothing behind
him. Alfred was at Cambridge at the
time of the crash. He left the University
at once, and for some time failed to get
anything to do. At length an old friend
of his father's found him a situation worth
a hundred and twenty pounds a year in
the great Welford Gasworks. In a couple
of years his salary was increased ten
pounds a year, upon which joyful encouragement
he married Lucy Abridge,
the penniless girl he had, before the

downfall of his father's house, resolved to
make his wife.

For a little while he and his wife and
sister lived very happily and contentedly
on his modest hundred and thirty pounds
a year. Then came little Freddie, and although
it was an additional mouth to feed,
any one of the three would have been
without meat and butter from year's end
to year's end rather than without baby
Freddie. And when Freddie was a year
old and could just syllable his mother's
name, the ears of the poor young well-beloved
mother were closed for ever in
this life to the voice of her only sweetheart,
Alfred, and her only child.

The brother and sister put her to rest
with other dead in a great cemetery, and
never once mentioned her name after that,
although often when their loss was fresh
upon them they would sit hand in hand

by the widowed hearth, weeping silently
for the ease of their full and weary hearts.

The day following that on which the
brother and sister took possession of Crawford's
House, Layard felt less anxious about
their lodger's condition of mind than he
had the evening before. In the darkness of
night and the strangeness of a new house
and the loneliness of this deserted neighbourhood
it had seemed as though Crawford
was insane — might, in fact, at any
moment develop into a dangerous maniac.
In the sweet sunlight of a bright May
morning the fears of the night before
looked preposterous, and at very worsjb
the lodger appeared to be no more thana
fidgety, nervous, excitable man, with
whom it would be a bore to live all one's
life.

When his usual time came, Layard kissed
his little son and his sister, and went off

to his business at the great gasworks with
no fear or misgiving in his heart.

Mr. Crawford gave no indication of being
a troublesome lodger. He had a simple
breakfast, consisting of eggs and bacon
and coffee, and in the middle of the day
a simple dinner, consisting of a chop and
potatoes, with bread-and-cheese and a
bottle of stout. At tea he hadn't tea,
but coffee again, and a lettuce and bread-and-butter.
For a man with his income
he was easily pleased, thought Hetty. He
had found fault with nothing. In fact,
he had said no word beyond the briefest
ones that would convey his wishes, and
when Mrs. Grainger asked if the food had
been to his liking he had said simply, "It
was all right, thank you." To that good
lady he had imparted the impression that
he was too much occupied with matters

of the mind to give much heed to matters
VOL. I. 7

of the body, and he had answered all her
questions in a preoccupied and absentminded
manner.

After tea Mr. Crawford showed no sign
of going out. He drew an easy-chair to
the window, and sat down at the right-hand
side of the embrasure, so as to command
a view of the head of the island
across which he had seen the man pass
the evening before.

He heard Layard's knock and his voice
below-stairs, but still he did not stir.
From the place where he sat, any man
coming along the tow-path at a walking
pace would be in view a minute or a
minute and a half before passing out of
sight behind Boland's Ait. Crawford did
not remove his eyes from that tow-path
for any thirty consecutive seconds.

I knew him at once," he whispered ;
I knew him the minute I saw him. I

knew his build, his figure, his walk, the
way he swings his hands — ay, his face, far
off as he was — ay, his face, his accursed
vengeful face."

He leaned forward. He judged, by the
dying of the light and the shrouded rose-tint
on the chimneys and upper walls of
the houses in view, that it was growing
near the hour at which the solitary man

had appeared on the tow-path last evening.

•

"I wonder, if he saw me, would he
recognise me ? He thinks I am not in
this country. He is not on the look-out
for me. I am much changed since I saw
him last." He passed his hand over his
close-shaven face. "I had a beard and
moustache then, and taking them off* makes
a great difference in a man's appearance —
puts him almost beyond recognition. Then
I have grown stouter — much stouter. I
daresay my voice would betray me, and

then there is that St. Vitus's dance in my
eyelids. That is an awful drawback. I
am horribly handicapped ; it isn't a fair
race. And the worst of that jumping of
my eyelids is that it always comes on me
when I am most excited and least want
it, and, moreover, when I am mostly unconscious
of it until the excitement is over.
Confound it ! 1 am heavily handicapped."

He rested his elbow on the arm
of the chair, and dropped his chin into
his palm, keeping his eyes all the while
fixed on that section of the tow-path visible
beyond the head of the island.

I," he went on in a voice so low as
to be almost inaudible to himself, "was
on the look-out for him when I recognised
him. I knew he lived in Camberwell, and
that Camberwell was in the neighbourhood
; and when I knew that this tow-path
goes to that place, I had a presentiment

he would come along that tow-path into
my view. It might be called a superstition,
I know, but I had the feeling, and
it came true. He did come along that
tow-path — he the man of all others on
this earth I dread. But where did he
delay ? Where did he linger ? Where
did he hide himselfe Layard said there
was no place but in the canal, and I can
see that the fence is too high for any
man to scale without the aid of a ladders

He rose and stood at the window, to
command a better view of the scene.

It seems unnatural, monstrous, that I
should fear this Philip Eay more than
Mellor. If I ought to be afraid of anyone,
it is Mellor ; and yet I stand in no
dread of him, because, no doubt "

He paused with his mouth open. He
was staring at the tow-path.

A tall slender man had come into view

beyond the head of Boland's Ait. He was
walking rapidly north, and swinging his
arms as he moved.

It is he ! " whispered Crawford in a tone
of fear.

He stood motionless by the window fora
while — five, ten, fifteen minutes. The
man did not reappear.

Crawford wiped his forehead, which had
grown suddenly damp.

"At any cost I must find out the explanation
of this unaccountable disappearance."


He went from the house and into the
blind lane at the front of the house.

crawford's investigations.

William Crawford ascended the lane
until he reached the high-road ; then,
turning sharply to the left, he went at a
more leisurely pace towards the Welford
Bridge.

He kept his eyes fixed ahead, and in
every action of his body there was that
vital alertness which characterised him in
motion and even in repose. This alertness
was more noticeable now than it had been
before. Frequently, when he put down his
foot in walking, he seemed dissatisfied with
the ground upon which it had alighted, and
shifted the foot slightly, but briskly and
decisively while resting on it, and stepping

out with the other leg. He touched one
thigh sharply with one hand, then the
other thigh with the other hand, as though
to assure himself that his hands and legs
were within call, should he need their services
for some purpose besides that upon
which they were now employed. He rapped
his chest with his fist, and thrust his thumb
and forefinger into his waistcoat pocket
and brought forth nothing. In another
man this would be called nervous excitement,
but in William Crawford it did not
arise from any unusual perturbation, but
was the result of untilled energy.

As he approached the bridge his pace
fell to a saunter. He subdued his restlessness
or manifestations of repressed activity.
Nothing but his eyes showed extraordinary
alertness, and they were fixed dead ahead.
The houses on his left prevented his seeing
the tow-path, and the hump-backed bridge

prevented his seeing where the approach
from the toll-house joined the main
road.

On the bridge lounged a group of
loungers similar to that of the evening before.
When Crawford had got over the
middle of the bridge, and the road began to
dip westward, he approached the parapet
and looked up the canal. The long
straight line ran off in the distance to a
vanishing point, seeming to rise as it receded,
but not a soul was visible from the
spot at which he stood to the point at
which the path disappeared.

Eed Jim sidled up to where the stranger
had paused, and after drawing the back of
his hand across his mouth, by way of purifying
himself before speaking to a man of
property, said deferentially,

Good-evening, guv'nor."

Good-evening," said Crawford briskly,

sharply, in a tone which implied he would
stand no familiarity or nonsense.

Eed Jim pushed his hat over his eyes in
token of acknowledging a rebuff; but he
remained where he was in token of cherishing
hope of a job, or anyway of money.

Crawford took a few paces farther down
the slope of the bridge. He did not care to
speak in the hearing of all these men.
Then he beckoned to Eed Jim. The man
came to him with alacrity.

How long have you been here this
evening ? "

"Most of the evening. I'm out of
work."

You have been here half-an-hour ? "

Yes. A good bit more."

Have you seen any one pass along the
tow-path this way " (pointing) " in the last
half-an-hour?"

No."

Did you see any one come along the
path in that time ? "

Ay, I did."

Crawford paused a moment in thought.
He laughed and said, " I have a little bet
on. I betted that a man did come along
the tow-path, but did not come off it at the
bridge here. I was looking out of a window
and saw him. My friend said it was
impossible, as the man otherwise must go
into the canal"

It was plain Crawford did not appear
anxious about the man himself. It was
only about a wager he cared.

The man went across the canal."

Across the canal ! " cried Crawford in
astonishment. " Do you mean over the
bridge?"

No."

"Then how did he get across the
canal?"

How much have you on it ? " asked
Eed Jim. He was afraid his own interests
might suffer if he gave all the information
he possessed before making terms.

Confound you ! what is that to you ? "
cried Crawford angrily.

"Well, then, I'll tell you how he went
across," said Eed Jim, looking up straight
over his head at the sky.

How did he get over ? " cried the other
impatiently, as Jim showed no sign of
speaking.

He flew," said Jim, suddenly dropping
his full prominent blue eyes on Crawford.
He flew, that's the way he got across the
canal." And, thrusting his hands deep
into his wipe-open trousers pockets, he
began moving slowly away.

For a moment Crawford looked as if he
could kill Ford. Then, with a sudden quick
laugh. he said :

0, I understand ; I will make it worth
a tanner for you."

Eed Jim was back by this side in a
moment. He stretched out his arm, and,
pointing towards the tail of the island, said :

Do you see that floating stage ? "

Floating stage ? No. What is a floating
state ? "

Two long pieces of timber with planks
across. Don't you see it at the tail of
Boland's Ait ? " •

Yes, I do."

Well, that's the way he got over.
That was drawn by a chain across the canal
to the tow-path. He got on it, and then
drew it back to the Ait, do you see ? So
you've won your money, guv'nor."

Crawford's face grew darker and darker,
as the explanation proceeded. He handed
Jim the promised coin in silence, turned
back upon the way he had come, and began

retracing his steps at a quick rate. His
eyes winked rapidly, and he muttered curses
as he walked.

Can it be — can it possibly be that
Philip Eay is my next-door neighbour?
Incredible ! And yet that was Philip Eay,
as sure as I am alive, and he went to this
island ! Can this Eobinson Crusoe be Philip
Eay? If so, I cannot keep on here. I
must find some other place for my — business.
This is not exactly Camber well, and
I heard Eay lives in Camberwell ; but
this is very near it. Very near Camberwell
! "

When he reached Crawford Street he
diminished his speed. It was plain he did
not want to seem in a hurry. As soon ashe
gained the house he ascended the stairs
at once to his own room. He closed the
door, and began walking up and down,
hastily muttering unconnected words.

After a while he went to the window and
looked out on Boland's Ait with an expression
in which hatred and fear were blended.
The buildings on the island consisted of
an old sawmill, from which the machinery
had been removed, now falling into ruin ;
a couple of dilapidated sheds, with tarred
wooden roofs ; a yard in which once the
timber had been piled in stacks higher
than the engine-house itself; and a small
four-roomed house, formerly used as the
dwelling-place of the foreman. These
buildings and the wall of the yard rose
between Crawford and the tow-path. The
island itself was on a level with the ground
on which Crawford's House stood ; and
William Crawford's sitting-room, being on
the first floor, did not overseer even the
wall of the yard : hence the view of the
tow-path was cut off except at the head
and the tail of Boland's Ait.

William Crawford bit this under lip and
gnawed the knuckle of his left forefinger,
and plucked at his shaven cheek and upper
lip as though at whiskers and moustache.
At last he dropped his hand, and remained
motionless, as though an idea had
struck him and he was considering it.
Suddenly he raised his head like one who
has made up his mind, and walked with
a quick step to the door, and, opening it,
went out on the landing. He leaned over
the balustrade and called out :

Mrs. Grainger, will you come up,
please? I want to speak to you for a
minute."

Mrs. Grainger hastened from the kitchen.
She had the sleeves of her washed-out lilac
cotton dress rolled up above her arms,
and an enormous apron, once white, now
mottled and piebald with innumerable
marks and stains.

Will you sit down a moment ? " Craw-lord
said, pointing to a chair. He walked
up and down the room during the interview.


Mrs. Grainger sat down and threw her
apron over to her left side, by way of
qualifying herself for the honour of a seat
in Mr. Crawford's room and in Mr. Crawford's
presence.

Miss Layard told me last evening some
interesting facts you mentioned to her
about a — gentleman who lives on this
island here in the canal."

Yes, sir. A Mr. Bramwell, who lives
all alone on Boland's Ait."

Exactly. Do you know anything about
him? The case is so remarkable, I am
interested in it merely out of curiosity."

I know, sir ; and he is a curiosity, certainly,"
said Mrs. Grainger, settling herself
firmly on her chair, and arranging her

VOL. I. 8

mind as well as her body for a good long
chat, for every minute devoted to which
she would be receiving her pay.

Crawford caught the import of her gesture,
and said sharply :

I do not wish to keep you long, Mrs.
Grainger ; I have only a few questions to
ask, and then you may leave me."

Yes, sir," said the charwoman, instantly
sitting upright and on her dignity.

"Have you ever seen this strange man? "

"Only twice."

Would you know him again if you
saw him ? "

0, yes, sir, I should know him anywhere."


Tell me what he is like."

Quite the gentleman, sir, he looks, but
seems to be poor, or he wouldn't live ir
such a place all by himself and wear such
poor clothes."

His clothes are poor, then ? "

Very. But not so much poor as worn
shabby, sir."

"Ah," said Crawford thoughtfully. He
had not been near enough to that man on
the tow-path to tell whether his clothes
were greatly the worse of wear or not.
"Is he dark or light?"

Dark. Very dark. His hair is jet*
black, sir. I was as close to him on Wel-ford
Eoad as I am to you now."

Philip Eay was dark. " Did you notice
anything remarkable about him?"

"Well, as I said, he is very dark, and
he has no colour in his cheek."

Hem ! " said Crawford in a dissatisfied

tone. Eay had no colour in his cheek.

"Did you remark anything peculiar in his

walk ? " No one could fail to observe the

way in which Eay swung his hands.

"No, I did not."

8—2

Crawford drew up in front of the woman,
and stood gnawing his knuckle for a few
seconds. Then he resumed his pacing up
and down.

"Was the gentleman walking fast at
the time?"

"No."

Philip Eay, when alone, always went at
an unusually rapid pace. He was a man
quick in everything : quick in speech, in
the movements of his limbs, quickest of all
and most enduring also in his love and
anger.

Is he a tall man ? "

"No."

What ! " cried he in astonishment, drawing
up again in front of the charwoman, now
somewhat cowed by Crawford's abrupt, and
vigorous, and abstracted manner. "Don't
you call six feet a tall man? Have you
lived among Patagonians all your life ? "

No, sir ; I can't say I ever lived with
any people of that name," she said, bridling
a little. She did not understand being
spoken to by any one in that peremptory
and belittling way, and if all came to all it
wasn't the rich Mr. Crawford who paid her
and supplied the food she had eaten, but
poor Mr. Layard, who gave himself no airs,
but was always a pleasant gentleman,
though he was not in the counting-house of
the great Welford Gas Company, but in the
works, where her own husband was employed.


Why, don't you consider a man four
inches taller than I a tall man ? " cried
Crawford, drawing brows down over his
:quick furtive eyes, and looking at the
woman as if he was reproaching her with
having committed a heinous crime.

Four inches taller than you ! " said the
woman with scornful asperity. " I never

said he was four inches taller than you, sir.
He isn't four inches taller than you, Mr.
Crawford."

He is."

Excuse me, sir ; if you tell me so, of
course I have nothing more to say," said
Mrs. Grainger, rising with severity and
dignity. " The gentleman that lives on
Boland's Ait is a shorter man than you, sir."

Are you sure ? " said Crawford, standing
for the third time in front of the woman.

Quite certain."

Shorter than I ? " said he, in a tone of
abstraction, as he gnawed his knuckles, unconscious
of her presence — 'shorter than
I ? " he repeated, lost in thought. " Then
he can't be Philip Eay," he cried in a tone
of relief. The words were uttered, not for
Mrs. Grainger's hearing, but for his own.
He wanted to have this pleasant assurance
in his ear as well as in his mind.

"I never said he was, sir ; I said he was
Mr. Bramwell — Mr. Francis Bramwell," said
Mrs. Grainger, making a mock courtesy and
moving towards the door.

With a start Crawford awoke from his
abstraction to the fact of her presence.
Bless my soul ! but of course you didn't !
Of course you didn't ! You never said anything
of the kind! You never said anything
of any kind ! Ha, ha, ha, ha ! " He
laughed his short and not pleasant laugh,
and held the door open for Mrs. Grainger.

When she was gone he walked up and
down the room for some time in deep
cogitation. Then he went to the window
and looked out on the scene, now darkening
for the short night. His eyes rested on
Boland's Ait, and he muttered below his
breath :

Whoever my next-door neighbour maybe,
it is not Philip Eay, and I am not afraid

of any one else on earth. But who is this
Francis Brarawell that Philip Eay visits ?
Who can he be ? " Crawford paused awhile,
and then said impatiently as he turned away
from the window, " Bah, what do I care
who it is ? I fear no one but Philip Maya

VISITOR AT Roland's AIT.

On" the evening that Crawford arrived for
the first time at the house called after his
name, and saw the man he recognised as
Philip Kay hastening along the tow-path,
the man of whom he expressed such fear
was almost breathless when, having passed
the head of the Ait, he was hidden from
view. As soon as he got near the tail of
the island he suddenly stopped, bent down,
and seizing a small chain made fast to an
iron ring below the level of the tow-path
and close to the water, drew heavily upon
it, hand over hand. Gradually a long low
black floating mass began to detach itself
from the island, and, like some huge snake

or saurian, stretch itself out across the
turbid waters, now darkening in the
shadows of eve. This was the floating
stage of which Eed Jim had told Crawford.

When the stage touched the bank Philip
Eay stepped on it, walked to the other end,
stooped down to the water, and, catching
another chain, drew the stage back. Then
he stepped ashore on Boland's Ait.

He paused a moment to gather breath
and wipe his forehead, for in his wild haste
he had run half the way from Camberwell.
With rapid steps and arms swinging he
strode to the door of what had once been
the foreman's cottage, and knocked hastily.
Then he made a great effort, and forced
himself into an appearance of calm.

There was the sound of some one rising
inside. The door swung open, and a man
of thirty slightly under the middle height
stood facing the failing light of day.

Philip," he said. " PhiHp, I did not
expect to see you so soon again. Come
in."

On a table littered with papers a reading-lamp
was already burning, for even at the
brightest hour the light in the small oblong
room was not good. By the table stood a
Windsor armchair ; another stood against
the wall furthest from the door. There
was a tier of plain bookshelves full of books
against one of the walls, a few heavy boxes
against another, and absolutely nothing else
in the place. The cottage stood at the head
of the island, and the one window of the
occupant's study looked up the canal in the
direction of Camberwell.

At work, as usual," said Eay, pointing
to the papers on the table as he shut the
door.

My work is both my work and my play,
my meat and my rest. Sit down, Philip.

Has anything unusual happened? I did
not expect to see you until Sunday'* said
the solitary man, dropping into his chair,
resting his elbows on the arms of it and
leaning forward.

I am out of breath. I ran most of the
way," said Eay, avoiding the question.

Mean ! " cried the other in faint surprise.
Your walking is like another man's running.
Your running must be terrific. I
never saw you run. What made you run
this evening ? " He smiled very slightly ashe
spoke of Eay's walking and running.

"I am out of breath," said the other,
again shirking the question. " Give me a
minute."

It was not to gain breath Philip Eay
paused, but to put in shape what he had to
say. He had come from Camberwell at the
top of his speed because he was burning
with intelligence which had just reached

him. He had been so excited by the news
that he had never paused to think of the
form in which he should communicate it,
and now he was in great perplexity and
doubt.

Francis Bramwell threw himself back in
his chair in token of giving the required
respite. He was a pale broad-browed
man, with large, grave, unfathomable, hazel

eyes. His hair and moustache were dark
brown ; his cheeks and chin, clean-shaved.
Eay fidgeted a good deal in his chair, and

acted very badly the man who was out of

breath.

'• You must have run desperately hard,"

said Bramwell, at length, in a tone half

sympathy, half banter.

Never harder in all my life," said the

other, placing his hand on his side, as though

still suffering from the effects of his unusual

speed.

After a while he sat up and said, " I was
pretty tired to begin with. I had been
wandering about all the afternoon, and when
I found myself near home I made up my
mind not to budge again for the night. I
found a letter waiting for me, and I have
come over about that letter." He ceased
to speak, and suppressed the excitement
which was shaking him.

A letter ! " said Bramwell, observing for
the first time that something very unusual
lay behind the manner of the other. " It
must have been a letter of great importance
to bring you out again, and at such a rate,
too." He looked half apprehensively at his
visitor.

It was a letter of importance."

A spasm of pain shot over the face of
Bramwell, and his brows fell. " A letter of
importance that concerned me?" he asked
in a faint voice.

'' Well," after a pause, " partly."

Bramwell's lips grew white, and opened.
He scarcely breathed his next question :
"From lier

0, no ! " answered Eay quickly.

About her ? "

No."

Bramwell fell back in his chair with a
sigh of relief. " I thought the letter was
about her. I thought you were preparing
me to hear of her death," said he tremulously,
huskily.

I am sorry to say you were wrong.
That would be the best news we could hear
of her," said Eay bitterly.

"Yes, the very best. What does the
letter tell you that affects me ? '

It is about Az?72," answered Eay, with
fierce and angry emphasis on the pronoun.

"What does the letter say?"

"That he is in England."

"Ah! Where?"

In Eichmond."

So near ! "

"Who saw him?"

Langton."

Beyond all chance of mistake ? "

"Beyond all chance of mistake, although
he has shaved off his whiskers and moustache.
Lambton saw him on the railway
platform, and recognised him at once.
Lambton had no time to make any inquiries,
as his train was just about to move
when he recognised the villain standing
alone. But / have plenty of time for inquiries,
and shall not miss one. I'll shoot
him as I would a rabid dog."

The atrocious scoundrel ! "
When I read the letter I only waited to
put this in my pocket."

He took out a revolver and laid it on the
table.

Then for a while both men sat staring atone
another across the table, on which lay
the weapon. At length Bramwell rose and
began pacing up and down the room with
quick, feverish steps. Eay had not seen
him so excited for years — not since his own
sister Kate, the solitary man's wife, had runaway,
taking her baby, with that villain
John Ainsworth, whom Edward Lambton
had seen at Eichmond. After the first
fierce agony of the wound, the husband had
declined to speak of her flight or of her to
his brother-in-law. He plunged headlong
into gambling for a time until all his ample
means were dissipated, unless Boland's Ait
are enough to keep body and soul together.
Then his grief took another turn. He was
lost to all his former friends for months, and
at last took up his residence, under an assumed
name — Francis Bramwell instead of
Frank Mellor — on Boland's Ait, in the South

VOL. I. 9

London Canal. To not a living soul did he
disclose his real name or his place of habitation
but to Philip Eay, the brother of his
guilty wife, and the sworn avenger of her
shame and his dishonour.

Eay watched Bramwell with flashing,
uneasy eyes. By a desperate effort he was
calming his own tumultuous passions.

At last Bramwell wound his arms round
his head, as though to shut out some intolerable
sight, to close his ears to some maddening
sounds, to shield his head from deadly,
infamous blows.

Bear with me, Philip ! " he cried
huskily, at length. "Bear with me, my
dear friend. I am half mad — whole mad
for the moment. Bear with me! God
knows, I have cause to be mad."

He was staggering and stumbling about
the room, avoiding by instinct the table
on which the lamp burned.

Eay said nothing, but set his teeth and
breathed hard between them.

I did not think'' went on Bramwell,
unwinding his arms and placing his hands
before his face, as he went on unsteadily
to and fro, " that anything could break
me down as this has done. I thought I
had conquered all weakness in the 1 matter.
I cannot talk quite steadily yet. Bear
with me awhile, Philip ! "

The younger man hissed an imprecation
between his set teeth.

Bramwell took down his hands from
his face and tore the collar of his shirt
open.

"What you told me," he resumed in a

gentler voice, a voice still shaken by his

former passion of wrath, as the sea

trembles after the wind has died away,

"brought it all back upon me again.

How I worshipped her! How I did all

9—2

in my power to make her love me !
How I hoped in time she would forget
her young fancy for him! I thought if
she married me I could not fail to win
her love, and then when the child was
born I felt secure. But the spell of his
evil fascination was too strong for her
feeble will, and — and— and he had only
to appear and beckon to her to make her
leave me for ever ; and to go with him
with such a man as John Ainsworth!
God ! "

Eay drew a long breath, brought his
lips firmly together, but uttered no word.
His eyes were blazing, and his hands
clutched with powerful strenuousness the
elbows of his chair.

"I am calmer now," resumed Cromwell.


I am not," breathed Eay, in a whisper
of such fierceness and significance that

the other man arrested his steps and regarded
the speaker in a dazed way, like
one awakening from sleep in unfamiliar
surroundings.

I am not calmer now," went on Eay,
in the same whisper of awful menace,
unless it is calmer to be more than
ever resolved upon revenge."

« Philip "

Stop ! I must have my say. You
have had yours. Have I no wrongs or
sorrow ? Am I not a partner in this shame
thrust upon us ? "

« But "

Frank, I will speak. You said a while
ago, 'Bear with me.' Bear you now with
me."

Bramwell made a gesture that he would
hear him out.

In the first wild burst of your anger
you would have strangled this miscreant

if you could have reached his throat with
your thumbs — would you not ? "

He was now speaking in his full voice,
in tones charged with intense passion.

"I was mad then."

"No doubt; and I am mad still — now.
I have never ceased to be mad, if fidelity
to my oath of vengeance is madness. You
know I loved her as the apple of my eye,
and guarded her as the priceless treasure of
my life ; for we were alone — she was alone
in the world only for me. Him I knew
and loathed. I knew of his gambling, his
dishonourableness, his profligacy. I knew
she was weak and flighty, vain and headlong,
open to the wiles of a flatterer, and I
shuddered when I found she had even met
him once, and I forbade her ever to meet
him again. She promised, and although
my mind was not at rest, it was quieted
somewhat. Then you came. I knew you

were the best and loyalist and finest-souled
man of them all. Let me speak. Bear
with me a little while."

My life is over. Let me be in such
peace as I may find." Bramwell walked
slowly up and down the room with his head
bowed and his eyes cast on the floor.

"And why is your life over — at thirty?
Because of him and his ways of devilish
malice ; he cared for her really nothing
at all. When he came the second time,' a
year after the marriage, he set his soul upon
ruining you and her. He thought of
nothing else. Do not stop me. I will goon.
I will have it out for once. You
would never listen to me before. Now you
shall — you shall ! "

He was speaking in a loud and vehement
voice, and swinging his arms wildly round
him as he sat forward on his chair.

Go on."

Well, I liked you best of all ; you had
everything in your favour : position, money,
abilities, even years. You were younger
than the scoundrel, and quite as good-looking.
You had not his lying smooth tongue
for women, or his fine sentiment for their
silly ears. I thought all would be well if
she married you. She did, and all went
well for a year, until he came back, and
then all went wrong, and she stole away
out of your house, taking your child with
her."

I know — I know ; but spare me. I
have only just said most of this myself."

No doubt ; but I must say what is in
my heart — what has been in my heart for
years. Well, we know he deserted her after
a few months. He left her and her child
to starve in America, the cowardly ruffian !
What I have had in my mind to say for
years, Frank, is that of all the men in this

world, I love and esteem you most ; that I
love and esteem you more than all the other
men in this world put together, and that it
drives me mad to think shame and sorrow
should have come upon you through my
blood."

Do not speak of her, Philip. What
has been done cannot be undone."

"No; but the shame which has come
upon you through my blood can be washed

out in his, and by , it shall ! and here

I swear it afresh."

With a sudden movement forward he
flung himself on his knees and threw his
open right hand up, calling Heaven to
witness his oath.

Bramwell paused in his walk. The two
men remained motionless for a moment.
Suddenly Bramwell started. There was a
loud knocking at the door.

Father AND SOX.

Eay rose to his feet and bent forward.

I did not know you expected any
visitor," said he in a tone of strong irritation.


"I do not expect any visitor. I never
have any visitor but you," said Bramwell,
looking round him in perplexity, as though
in search of an explanation of the sound.
He was beginning to think that his ears
must have deceived him, and that the
knock had not been at the door. " Did
you," he asked, " draw back the stage
when you got here ? "

Yes, but I did not fasten it. Any one
on the tow-path might have pulled it across

again. I hope no one has been eavesdropping."


Eavesdropping ! No. Who would care
to eavesdrop at my door ? "

He ! "

Philip, you are mad ? If you trifle with
your reason in this Away you will hurt it
permanently. I do not believe there was
any knock at all. It may have been a
stone thrown by some boy from the tow-path."


Well, open the door and see. There
can be no harm in doing that."

Eay stretched out his hand to recover
the revolver which he had placed on the
table. Bramwell snatched it up, saying :

"What folly, Philip! I will have no
nonsense with such tools as this. We are
in England — not the West of America."
He dropped the revolver into the pocket of
his jacket.

The minds of both men had been so concentrated
on the idea of John Ainsworth
during this interview that neither would
have felt much surprise to find him on the
threshold. Bramwell had repudiated Eay's
suggestion that Ainsworth was there, butin
his heart he was not sure of his own
assertion. Nothing on earth could be more
monstrously improbable than that Ains-worth
would come and knock at that door ;
but then neither of the men in the room
was in full possession of his reasoning
powers. While Bramwell had lived on
Boland's Ait no caller but Philip Eay had
ever knocked at that door before, and now
now there came a knock while Philip
Kay was sitting in the room, and as they
had heard of Ainsworth's presence in England,
and at the very moment Philip Eay
was swearing to take that reprobate's life.
Reason said it was absurd to suppose Ains-worth

could be there. Imagination said he
might ; and if he were found there while
Philip was in this fury, what direful things
might not happen? Now that Bramwell
had the revolver in his possession he felt
more assured.

He moved to the door, opened it, and
looked out.

No figure rose between him and the deep
dusk of night. The light from the lamp on
the table passed out through the doorway,
and shone upon the wall of the old
engine-house opposite.

"There is no one. It must have been
a stone," said Bramwell, relieved, and
drawing back.

A stone cannot hit twice. There were
two knocks. I heard two quite distinctly.
Go out and look around. Or stay, I'll go.
Give me back my revolver'*

No, no. Stay where you are. I will see."

He was in the act of stepping forth,
when, looking down, he suddenly perceived
the figure of a little child in the doorway.
With a cry, "What is this?" he sprang
back into the middle of the room.

Eay shouted, " Is the villain there ? I
told you it was Ainsworth ! "

Eay was about to pass Bramwell at a
bound, when the latter seized him and held
him back, and, pointing to the child in the
doorway, whispered, " Look ! "

Eay peered into the gloom, and then
came forward a pace warily, as though
suspecting danger. " A child ! " he cried
in a whisper. " A little child ! How did
he come here ? Do you know anything of
him?"

No." Bramwell shuddered and drew
back until he could reach the support of
the table, on which he rested his hand.

Eay advanced still further, and, bending

his tall thin figure, asked in a muffled
voice, " Who are you, my little man ? and
what have you got in your hand ? " The
child held something white in a hand which
he extended to Eay.

The child did not answer, but crossed
the threshold into the full light of the
lamp, still offering the white object, which
now could be seen to be a letter.

What is you name, my little man ? "
repeated Eay, with a look of something
like awe on his face.

Don't ! " whispered Bramwell, backing
until he reached his chair. " Don't ! Can't
you see his name .^ "

No. I am not able to make out what
is on the paper at the distance. Give me
the paper, my little lad."

Bramwell knew what the name of the
child was, and Kay had a tumultuous and
superstitious feeling that the coming of

this child across the water in the night
to the lonely islet and this solitary man
had some portentous significance.

Eay took the letter from the child, and
read the superscription with dull sight.
Then he said, turning to Bramwell, " This
does not explain how you know his name.
There is nothing on this but,

'Francis Bramwell, Esq.
Boland's Ait,

South London Canal.'

What is your name ? Tell me your name,
my little man."

Frank," said the child in a frightened
voice.

Yes. What else ? "

Mellor."

What ! " shouted Eay, catching up the
boy from the floor and holding the little
face close to the lamp.

"Did not you see his name on his face ?
Look! Is it not her face? Philip, I am
suffocating ! "

Eay gazed at the child long and eagerly.
Bramwell, swaying to and fro by his chair,
kept his eyes on the rosy face of the boy.
The boy blinked at the light, and looked
from one man to the other with wide-open,
unconcerned eyes. At length Eay
put the little fellow on the floor. The
boy went to the table and began looking
at the papers spread upon it. From his
self-possessed, unabashed manner, it was
plain he was well accustomed to strangers.

Who brought you here ? " asked Eay
again. The other man seemed bereft of
voice and motion, save the long swaying
motion, which he mechanically tried to
steady by laying hold of the arm of the
chair.

A man," answered the child, running

VOL. I. 10

his chubby young fingers though some
papers.

Where did you come from ? "

Mother," answered the child.

Who is mother ? "

The boy looked round in smiling surprise.


"Mother is mother," and he laughed at
the notion of grown-up people not knowing
so simple a thing as that his mother was
mother. He was thoroughly at his ease —
quite a person of the world.

You had better open the letter," said
Eay, holding it out to Bramwell. " I did
not recognise the writing. It is not like
what I remember, and it is in pencil."

Bramwell took the letter. His face
worked convulsively as he examined it.
I should not recognise the writing either,
and yet it could be no other than hers,
once you think of her and look at it." He

turned the unopened envelope round and
round in his hand. " What is the good of
opening this, Philip? It will make no
difference in me. I shall never look at her
of my own free-will again."

"How can you judge the good of opening
it unless you know what it contains ?
You cannot send it back by this messenger.
My little lad," he said, turning to the
child, who was still moving his dimpled
fingers through the confused mass of papers
on the table, " where is the man that
brought you here ? "

Gone away," answered the child, without
suspending his occupation.

He left you at the door and knocked
and went away ? "

The boy nodded.

"He brought you across the water and

set you down and knocked, and went back

across the water ? "

10—2

Went back across the water," repeated
the boy.

"What did he do then?"

"EanofF."

You see, Frank," said Ray to the other
man, " you cannot send back the letter by
the inessenofer who brought it."

Shall I throw it into the canal ? I
made up my mind never to know anything
about her again in this life," said Cromwell.


Bay put his hand on the child's head
and said, "Where did you leave your
mother ? "

At home."

Where ? "

A long way."

Do you know where ? "

"Yes; in bed."

Bramwell tore open the envelope, read
the letter, handed it to Ray, and flung himself

into his chair. The note, written iu
pencil Hke the address on the cover, ran :

May 28.
"Prank, — I have found out where
you are after long search. I ask nothing
for myself — not even forgiveness. But our
child, your little son, will be alone and
penniless when I die, which the doctor
tells me must be before morning. I have
enough money to pay all expenses. If is
not his money, but money made by myself
by my singing. You may remember my
voice was good. I shall be dead before
morning, the doctor tells me. There will
be money enough for my funeral, but none
for my child. He is very young — I forget
exactly how old, for my head is burning
hot, and my brain on fire. He is called
after you, for you used to be kind to me
when I was at Beechley before I was

married to Frank Mellor. You remember
him? This is a question you can never
answer, because I hear in my ears that I
shall die before morning. The money for
my funeral is in my box. I am writing
this bit by bit, for my head is on fire, and
now and then I cannot even see the paper,
but only a pool of flame, with little Frank
my baby Frank — on the brim, just falling
in, and I cannot save him. I am writing
my will. This is my will. 1 think I have
nothing more to say. I wish I could remember
all I have said, but I am not able ;
and I cannot read, for when I try, the
paper fills with fire. It is easier to write
than to read I am better now. My
head is cooler. It may not be cool again
between this and morning, and then it will
be cold for ever. [I have money enough
for myself when I am dead.] Take my
boy, take our child. Take my only little

one — all that is left to me. I do not ask
you to forgive me. Curse me in my grave,
but take the child. You are a good man,
and fear and love God. My child is growing
dim before my dying eyes. I could not
leave him behind when I fled your house.
I cannot leave him behind now, and yet I
must go without him. I know you are
bound in law to provide for him. That is
not what I mean. Take him to your heart
as you took .me once. I love him* ten
thousand times more than I ever loved
myself, or ever loved you. I can give you
nothing more, for I am not fit to bless you.
The pool of flame again ! But I have said

all.

Kate."

Bay had read the letter standing by the
table, and with his back to the chair into
which Bramwell had sunk. When' he
finished he turned slowly round and-fixed

his gaze on the .child. A feeling of delicacy
and profound sympathy made him avoid the
eyes of the other man. The dying woman
was his sister, but she was this man's wife.
A little while ago he had said that death
would well befit her ; and yet now, whenas
in answer to his words, he read her own
account of the death sentence passed upon
her, he felt a pang of pity for her and remorse
for his words. For a moment his
mind went back to their orphaned childhood,
and his love and admiration of his
sister Kate's beauty. He had to banish the
pictures ruthlessly from his mind, or he
would have broken down. Silence any
longer preserved would only afford a gateway
to such thoughts ; so he said, as he
placed his hand once more on the head of
the boy ;

She was delirious, or half-delirious, when
she wrote this."

Philip, she was dying."

"Yes. What do you propose to do? * .

*' Nothing. The boy said he came a long
way, and that whoever brought him ran
away. It is plain she has taken precautions
to conceal her hiding-place. Let things be
as they are. They are best so."

He spoke like a man in a dream. He
was half stunned. It seemed to him that
all this had passed in some dreary long ago,
and that he was only faintly recalling old
experiences, not living among words and
facts and surroundings subsisting to-day.

And what about ? " Eay finished

the sentence by pointing with his free hand
at the boy.

"Eh? About what?"

Bramwell's eyes were looking straight
before him far away. .

About our young friend here ? "

"She has been careful to remind me oi

my legal responsibility. I have no choice.
Besides, putting the question of legality
aside, I have no desire to escape from the
charge, though I am ill-suited to undertake
it, and do not know how I shall manage.
He is, of course, a stranger to me. He was
a mere baby when last I saw him. I cannot
think of this matter now. I am thick-blooded
and stupid with memories and
sorrows."

Kay groaned, and began pacing up and
down the room. The child, always self-possessed,
had now gathered courage and
was slowly making the circuit of the table,
holding on by the rim, and now and then
turning over some of the papers. : plainly a
child accustomed to amuse himself.

Neither of the men spoke. Bran well sat
stupefied in his chair. Eay strode up and
down the room with hasty steps. '"

The child pursued his course round the

table. On the table was nothing but papers,
and the lamp inaccessible in the middle, the
pens and an ink-bottle unattainable near
the lamp. Alien the circuit of the table
was completed, and was found to afford
nothing but dull papers, with not even one
picture among them, the little feet ceased
to move. One hand laid hold of the leaf,
the white blue-veined temple was rested on
the soft pad made by the plump tiny hand,
and the young voice said with a weary
yawn, " Frank's tired. Prank wants to goto
mother." As the boy spoke he sank
down, to the floor, overcome by drowsiness
and fatigue.

Eay hastened to the child and raised him
from the ground, and held him tenderly in
his arms. "Poor little man! Poor 'tired
little motherless man ! ■" .

Mother ! " murmured the boy, " I want
to go to mother! " The child smiled, and

nestled into the breast of the tall powerful
man. " Frank wants mother and wants to
go to bed."

Hush, my boy ; Frank has no mother."

Then a sudden impulse seized Eay. He
crossed the room with the little lad in his
arms, and placed him in the arms of Brara-
well, saying to the child :

"You cannot go to your mother: you
have no mother any longer. But you have
a father. Take him, Frank ; he is not to
blame."

Bramwell caught the boy to his breast,
and stooped and kissed his round soft young
cheek, and pressed him again to his bosom,
and then all at once handed him back to
Eay, saying, in a choking voice :

"I am distracted, overwhelmed. I cannot
stand this. What do I want here —
alive?"

He rose and began stumbling about the

room as if on the point of falling. Suddenly
something heavy in his coat struck the
table and shook it. A gleam of joy shot
over his face, illumining it as though he
stood within the light of deliverance.

Swift as thought he drew the revolver
from his pocket and placed it against his
forehead. With a cry of horror, Eay struck
his arm up, dropped the child, and seizing
Bramwell's wrist, wrenched the weapon
from his grasp.

"It is you who are mad now ! " he cried
angrily. " What do you mean ? Does all
your fine morality vanish at the contact
with pain and disgrace? For shame,
Frank ! for shame ! You were always a
man. What unmans you now ? This," he
added, dropping the revolver into his own
pocket, " is safer in my keeping than in
yours. I intended to do only justice with
it"; you would commit a crime."

I am calmer now," said Bramwell ; " it
was only the impulse of a moment. Forgive
me, Philip ! forgive me, Heaven ! I
was frenzied. I hardly remember what
passed since — since the boy came and I read
that letter, and saw her ruin and death, and
tasted the ashes of my own life upon my
lips. I am calm — quite calm now. I will
do my duty by the child. Trust me, I will
not give way again ; although I am not
much safer without the revolver than with
it. I have as deadly a weapon always at
hand."

What is that ? I did not know you
kept any weapon in the place."

"I keep no weapon in the place ; but,"
he went to the window looking south along
the canal, " all round me is — the water."

Shortly after this Philip Eay. left,
promising to call next evening. It was
after this interview that Layard and Crawford

saw him emerge from the gloom of the
arch of Welford Bridge, the nisfht that
Crawford entered upon the tenancy of his
rooms in Crawford's House, on Crawford's
Bay, opposite Boland's Ait, and hard by the
flooded ice-house, Mrs. Crawford's property.

Crawford's home.

The third and last day of William Crawford's
visit to Welford was devoted to the
business of his wife's property. The rents
had not been collected for a couple of
months, and before he returned in the evening
he had upwards of a hundred pounds
in his possession. Some of the tenants paid
quarterly ; the rents of the smaller ones
were due weekly, but it had been the
custom of the estate not to apply for the
latter until four weeks outstanding. The
neighbourhood, though poor, was for a
place of its class eminently solvent, owing
to the gas-house and the railway. Of course
there was no difficulty with the stores, or

wharves, or yards, or better class of houses ;
and even the poorer tenants could not afford
to get into arrears or treat a landlord unjustly,
for such matters might come to the
ears of either of the great companies, and
do the delinquent harm.

It was almost sundown when Crawford
reached his lodgings. Layard had come in
and gone out again, and Hetty was alone
in their sitting-room. She had just comedown
from little Freddie, who, after "a
valiant fight against Billy Winkers, had
at last succumbed. Crawford saw Hetty at
the window, and motioned that he wished
to speak with her.

Mr. Layard out ? " asked he, after
greetings.

Yes," said the girl ; " the evening was
so lovely, he said he'd go for a walk."

The evening is lovely, no doubt,"
said he ; " but is there such a thing as

VOL. I. 11

a tolerable walk within reasonable distance
? "

Hetty had opened the sitting-room door,
and now stood on the threshold.

There is no nice walk quite close, but
Alfred often goes for a stroll to Greenwich
Park. That is not far off, you know, and the
air there is so sweet and pure after the heat
and unpleasantness of the works all day."

She thought he was speaking merely out
of politeness, and, believing he wished to
be gone, drew back a little into the room.

He was in no great hurry to go upstairs.
He knew what her movement indicated, but
he construed it differently.

Am I invited to enter ? " he asked
suavely, bowing slightly, and making a
gesture of gallant humility with his arms
and shoulders.

Certainly," she said, smiling and making
way for him. He did look a powerful man.

lie thought, who could dare danger, and
rescue and carry out of the flames an
invalid woman. He was not very handsome,
it was true, and there was something
unusual about his restless eyes. But perhaps
that might be quite usual with heroes.
She had never before met a man who had
rescued any one from death. She had not,
that she could remember, ever met a man,
either, who had married a widow. According
to plays and satirists, the man who
married a widow had more courage than
the man who would do no more than face
death in a burning house.

I am sorry to have to trouble you about
a little business matter — no, thank you, I
will not sit down, I shall run away in a
minute — but, as your brother is out, I fear
I must intrude on your good nature, if you
will allow me."

His voice and manner were exceedingly

11—2

soft and pleasant and insinuating ; not in
the least like this voice and manner of the
former evening, when his manner was
abrupt and his voice hard, if not harsh.
This speech somewhat disconcerted the
girl. She felt sure he was going to ask her
to do something altogether beyond her
abilities.

Anything in my power, Mr. Crawford, I
shall be very happy to do for you."

Thank you extremely. It is exceedingly
kind of you to say so." He spoke as
though weighed down by a sense of his
own unworthiness.

The girl began to feel embarrassed. Such
profuse thanks rendered in anticipation
placed the obligation of gratitude on her
shoulders. His words and manner and
gestures had already thanked her more
than sufficiently for anything she could do
for him.

I am going out this evening," he said,
and shall not be back until very late — san
hour too late even to mention to any well-ordered
person — and I do not wish to disturb
any one when I come back."

We, Alfred and I, always sit up very
late."

My dear Miss Layard, you could have
no conception of the time at which I may
return. It may be three, four, five o'clock.
I have to go to see an old friend in the
West End, and he will, in all likelihood, keep
me until the cocks have crowed themselves
hoarse in full daylight."

Well," said she, gathering her bro'A's
and looking very uncomfortable as she felt
how helpless she was in a case of such
mystery and difficulty, " what can Alfred or
I do for you ? "

The grave aspect and manner of apology
left his face and gestures all at once, and he

smiled, and with a light airy, humorous
manner said, "If there is such a thing
as a latchkey, and your brother hasn't it
with him, will you lend it to me ? "

The girl burst out laughing, partly from
relief and partly from enjoyment of this
elaborate joke, and, going to the chimney-piece,
handed him from it a key. '* We
had to get a new latch. Alfred has one
key. This is for you."

Thank you. Good-night." And he
went, shutting the door softly after him.

William Crawford went to his own room
and took off the quiet, sedate, and somewhat
shabby clothes in which he had
arrived at Welford. He washed, put on a
fresh shirt and elegant lace boots, of much
finer make and more shiny than he had
worn all day. He substituted a coloured
tie for the one of sober black, a blue frock-coat
of exquisite make, and over this a

dark summer topcoat. When he surveyed
himself in the glass he looked ten years
younger than when he came in after the
arduous labours of the day.

Of the money he had collected that day
most was in notes or gold. He dropped all
the notes and gold into his pocket, and,
having locked a few cheques in his portmanteau,
left the house quietly, as though
not wishing to attract attention.

When he reached Welford Eoad he
looked up and down for a minute, and
muttering, " Pooh ! No hope of a hansom
in this place, of course ! " turned his face
west, and began walking rapidly with his
quick step. Now and then he twitched his
shoulders with suppressed energy ; constantly
he swung his eyes from left to right,
as though it would not suit him to miss
seeing anything on either side.

After a quarter-of-an-hour's walking he

came to the beginning of a tram line. He
got into a car about to move. He took no
notice of the destination of the car. The car
was going west — that was enough for him.
In half-an-hour he reached a busy crossing
where hansoms were plentifuL He
alighted here, hailed a cab, and was driven
to a quiet street off Piccadilly. He got
down here, and proceeded on foot to a
still quieter cross street, finally entering a
modest, unpretentious house, the home of
the Counter Club, a club which had nothing
whatever to do with the yard stick or scales
and weights, but where members might
amuse themselves at games in which no
money changed hands at the table, and was
therefore blameless. All a member had todo
before beginning to play was to provide
himself with counters, to be obtained of the
secretary for — a consideration. The reason
why these counters were used, and not

money, was because the games played here
were games of chance, and it is illegal to
play games of chance for money. Very
elaborate precautions were taken by the
committee to avoid any confusion between
the counters whose use, after the formality
of paying, was sanctioned by the secretary,
and counters not issued by him.

It was, as Crawford had predicted, long
after sunrise when he opened Layard's door
with his latchkey. A good deal of the
briskness and energy of his manner a few
hours ago was abated. When he found
himself in his sitting-room he fluor his
overcoat and hat on the table. " Cleaned
out, by Heavens ! " he cried. " Is this
accursed luck to last for ever ? "

Then he changed his clothes, putting on
those he had worn the day before, and took
a chair at the open window of his sitting-room,
overlooking the canal.

Here he remained motionless, brooding
gloomily until six o'clock. Then he got up,
wrote a line to Layard saying he had to go
away early, and would be back again on
June 27. He left the house noiselessly, and
made his way partly on foot, partly by
tramcar (for here the grammars run early),
and partly by cab to Ludgate Hill, whence
by train he reached Eichmond.

It was still early, about eight o'clock,
when Crawford gained his own home and
let himself in. The servants were stirring.
Tell Mrs. Crawford when she rings," said
he to the housemaid, " that I have been up
all night, and have gone to lie down. Do
not call me for breakfast." Then he went
to his dressing-room, kicked off his boots
with a curse, threw himself on the bed, and
was asleep in five minutes.

Noon came and went, and still he slept
peacefully. Just as one o'clock struck he

awoke with a start, and sprang from the
bed, threw off his coat and waistcoat, rolled
up his shirt-sleeves, washed his face and
hands, brushed his hair, and, when his coat
and waistcoat were once more on, opened
the door leading to his wife's room and
went in.

Mrs. Crawford was sittings in an armchair
by the open window. She was a pale,
fragile, beautiful woman of seven-and-forty.
Her eyes were large, luminous, violet, and
full of gentleness and love. Her lips were
remarkably beautiful and red for an invalid
of her sears. Her smile was the softest and
most engaging and endearing in all the
world. Nothing could exceed the tender
loveliness of her face, or the sweet cheerful
resignation of her disposition. The mitigation
of her symptoms following the shock
at the fire had not been permanent, and,
although on the day of her second marriage

she had been well enough to walk up the
whole length of the church, she was now
once more incapable of moving across the
room without help.

Upon the entrance of Crawford she
turned her head quickly and smiled, hold-out
her hands, saying :

'• 0, William, I am glad you're back ! I
am glad to see you once more. I have
been lonely. This is the longest time we
have been separated since our marriage."

He went to her and kissed her affectionately,
first her lips and then her forehead,
and then her hair, now thickly shot with
grey, but abundant still. He drew a chair
beside hers, and sat down, taking one of
her thin transparent hands in both his, and
stroking it as though it was made of the
most fragile and precious material.

And how has my Nellie been since ? '*
he asked in a low caressing voice, very

different from the one Eed Jim or Alfred
Layard had heard, but somewhat akin to
the one in which he had apologised to Hetty
the evening before.

Well — very well ; but lonely. I hoped
you would be able to get home, dear, last
night," she said, lying back in her chair and
looking at him cut of her gentle violet eyes
with an expression of absolute rest and

joy.

So did I. So, indeed, I should, only
for my ill luck. I am greatly put out by
my first visit to Welford, Nellie," he said,
lowering his brows and looking troubled.

Put out, dear ! Put out by your visit
to Welford ! What put you out, William ?
I am very sorry you went. I am very sorry
I let you go. I am sorry we ever got rid
of Blore, if the thing is going to be a bother
to you." Blore had been the agent before
the advent of William Crawford.

0, no ! You need not be sorry. 1 was
not put out on account of myself, but on
account of you." He said this very
tenderly, and with a gentle pressure on the
transparent wax-like fingers between his
hands.

On my account, William ? " she said,
with a smile rich in love and satisfaction.
Why on my account, dear ? "

Well, because I have been disappointed
in the results of my own efforts. I could
get very little money. Out of over two
hundred pounds overdue, upwards of a
hundred of which is arrears, I got no more
than twenty pounds." He said this ruefully,
keeping his gaze fixed out of the
window, as though ashamed to meet her
eyes.

His wife laughed.

Is that all ? I thought you had met
some unpleasantness to yourself there. My

dear-william, don't let that trouble you.
They will pay next month or the month
after. They are excellent tenants, taking
them all together."

"I daresay they will pay next month.
But I could not help feeling disappointed
and depressed in having to come back to
you almost empty-handed. This is all I
succeeded in getting — twenty-seven pounds
ten."

He held out a little bundle to her.

With a laugh she pushed it away.

*' It is yours, William, not mine. What
have I to do with money now ? You know
more about money than I do. You take
care of me and of the money for us. No,
no ; I will not touch it ! Put it in the bank,
or do what you like with it. I and all that
was mine is yours, love."

There was a rapture of self-sacrifice and
devotion in the woman's voice and manner.

There was a prodigal richness of love and
faith in her eyes. She had not loved her
first husband when she married him, and
during the years they had spent together
no passionate love had arisen in her heart,
though she was fond of her husband and
an excellent wife. She had passed not only
the morning, but the zenith of life when she
met this man ; but to him she had given
all that remained to her of love and hope
and all her faith, never shaken by any
shock.

Crawford winced slightly. Even he drew
the line somewhere. He would rather
battle stubbornly against odds for his way
than sit still and be overwhelmed with free
and lavish gifts. He liked to win, but he
also liked to contend. He was passionately
fond of money, and would sacrifice almost
anything to get it. He would not work for
it, but he would rather win it at cards than

get it for nothing. If he had not gambled
away those eighty pounds last night, she
would have given them to him, now. He felt
a perverse gratitude that he was not beholden
to her for the eighty pounds. He
]had, as it were, earned those eighty pounds
by the deceit he had practised. But this
money, which she had refused to receive,
burnt his fingers.

He took the money, however, and kissed
her thin fragile hand, and pressed it against
his broad powerful chest.

You are the best woman in the world,
Nellie, and the dearest. These fellows will,
no doubt, pay next month. I wonder, if I
asked Bio re about them, would he give me
some information ? "

"I always found Mr. Blore the most

courteous and honest and straightforward

of men. If I were you I should see him."

I will. And now let us drop business
VOL. I. 11^

and talk about something more interesting.
Tell me to begin with, all that my goodwife
has been doing while I have been
away." He slipped his arm round her waist
and drew her head down upon his shoulder.
His ways with men and women were widely
different. With the former he was quick, or
abrupt, or peremptory, or combative. He
seemed to value his time at a price so high
that the speech of other men caused him
an intolerable loss, by reason of his having
to listen to it.

With women he was soft and gentle, and
even quietly humorous at times. He never
was restless or impatient. His manner was
that of one who had found out the condition
of existence in which life could be most
delightfully passed, that of his companion's
society ; and if he did not absolutely make
love to a woman when alone with her,
and this was but seldom with one under

fifty, he invariably implied that he would
rather have her society than the society of
all the men on this earth. He varied the
details of his style according to the age,
condition, and disposition of his companion.
He could adopt the melancholic, the enthusiastic,
the poetic manner, according as
circumstances and the subject demanded.
Without any striking physical advantages,
he was a most fascinating man to women.
There was no false polish, no lacquer about
him. He had no airs and graces. He did
not groan or simper. He never laid aside
his manhood for a moment. He did not
beg so much as expostulate for love. His
love-making took the form of an irresistible
argument. He thought no more about
women than he did about hares or rabbits,
or flowers. He liked most women when
they were not a trouble to him. They

amused him. He liked their graceful ways

12 2

and their simple loyal hearts. He liked
their dainty raiment and their soft delicate
hands. He liked the perfumes they used
and the flowers they wore. He liked most
women, but he had a contempt for all of
them.

He hated all men.

He did not repudiate or despise principles,
but he had none himself. He nourished
no theories as to what a man ought or
oui2^ht not to do. He troubled himself
about no other men at all. He always did
exactly what he liked best, or believed to be
best for his own interest. He had banished
everything like religion from his mind long
ago. He did not bother himself to ask
whether there mi^^ht or miofht not be a
Hereafter. He was quite certain there was
a Here, and he had made up his mind to
make the best of it. In some senses of
the word, he was no coward. He would

face a danger, even a risk, so long as he
could see his way, and all was in the full
light of day and commonplace. But he
was afraid of the unseen : of the dagger
or the bullet, of ghosts and supernatural
manifestations. He was a gambler, and,
like all gamblers, superstitious.

Twenty years ago he had been placed
in the counting-house of a first-class Liverpool
place of business. His mother was
then dead, his father living. John Ains-worth
— that was the name with which he
started in life — was an only child. His
father had saved a few thousand pounds as
manager of a line of steamboats.

Young Ainsworth went to the bad before
he was twenty-five, and was kicked out of
his situation. The shock killed his father,
who was an old man. There was no will,
and young Ainsworth got his father's money
and went betting on the turf, and when

there were no races he devoted his energies
to cards. It was on his way back from a
great Sussex race-meeting that he came
upon the quiet little town of Beechley, and
first met Kate Eay. He was then past
thirty years of age, and had been moderately
successful on the turf and on the
board of green cloth. In Beechley he concealed
the nature of his occupation, stayed
there a month or two, and won the giddy
heart of the beautiful Kate Eay. But her
brother would not listen to him, and Kate,
who would have a little money when she
came of age, was a minor and in the hands
of guardians, who would have nothing todo
with him either. So Ainsworth, being
by no means insensible to the money Kate
would come into at twenty-one, drew off
for a while, promising Kate to come back
later.

Two whole years passed before John

Ainsworth again appeared at Beechley. By
this time the flighty and beautiful girl had
married Frank Mellor, who had just inherited
a considerable fortune upon the
death of an old miserly bachelor grand-uncle,
that had lived all his life in London,
and made money in the Baltic trade.

Then, out of a spirit of pure revenge,
Ainsworth secretly pursued Kate, and
worked upon her fickle and weak nature
until she fled with him, taking her baby bo\%
Frank Mellor's child.

After three years that child had been restored
to his father, while the mother lay
djdng at good Mrs. Pemberton's, a rifle-shot
from Boland's Ait and the office of John
Ainsworth, who had assumed the name of
Crawford.

FATHER AND SON.

Of all the men in London, there was
scarcely one less qualified to take charge
of a young child than Francis Bramwell,
living alone on his tiny island in the South
London Canal. He was not used to children.
He had had only one sister, and
no brother. His sister, twelve years older
than himself, had married and gone away
to Australia before he was eight years of
age. His father had been a successful
attorney in Shoreham, where he died ten
years ago, when his son was just twenty
years old. His mother had been dead
many years at that time.

AVHien his grand-uncle was buried a few

years later, Bramwell became rich and left
Shoreham. He had been reading for the
Bar in a half-hearted and dilatory way.

He gave up all thought of the profession,
and resolved to lead a life of lettered ease
and contemplation, to be summed up later,
probably in a book of one kind or another.
In fact, as soon as he found himself independent
he determined to devote his attention
to poetry, and, as he did not feel
certain of possessing a strong vein of
genius, he determined to confine himself
to translations by way of a beginning.

For quietness he moved out of Shore-ham
to a cottage a few miles from the dull
little town of Beechley, and in Beechley
after the first visit of John Ainsworth, he
made the acquaintance of Philip Eay and
his beautiful sister Kate.

When he fell in love he threw his books
to the winds, and, beyond verses addressed

to his mistress, had no dealings with the
Muse.

He was then a man to all outward
appearance of singularly unemotional temperament.
But under a placid demeanour
he concealed a sensitive and enthusiastic
nature, a nature of fire and spirit, subject
to raptures and despairs, and desiring rapture
almost as a necessity. Prose would
not satisfy him ; he must have the wine
of poetry. To love was not enough for
him ; he must adore. Devotion was too
tame ; he must immolate himself.

He had lived most of his years since
adolescence apart, and had never tried to
make himself agreeable to any girl, until
he told himself that life without Kate Eay
would be simply intolerable. After marriage
he treated his wife more like the
goddess of a temple than the young, pretty,
vain, foolish, flighty mistress of a home.

Kate, who loved flattery and fine clothes,
and trivial gaiety, could not understand
him. She thought him cold and formal
at one time ; a wild man, a lunatic at
another. He did not stoop to flattery, or
condescend to simulation. He was worshipful,
not gallant. He praised her spirit
and her soul, possessions to which she
did not attach much importance. He said
little about her eyes, or her figure, or her
hair, which she knew to be beautiful, and
of which she was inordinately vain.

She could not comprehend him. She did
not try very hard. She never tried very
hard to do anything, except dress welland
look pretty. He was, no doubt, very
grand, but she loved John Ainsworth all
the while. John's ways and manner were
perfectly intelligible to her, and when he
came to her the second time secretly, and
threw a romantic light upon their stolen

lueetino's — when she heard his flattery and
sighs and oaths — her weak will gave way,
and she fled with him, taking the boy
with her.

Now, after three years, and when Cromwell
had made up his mind he should never
see wife or child again, the boy had come
from his wife's death-bed to his door. What
was he to do with this helpless being?

He had decreed in his own soul, beyond
the reach of appeal, that he would never
see his wife again. It was plain she had not
contemplated a meeting with him. It was
plain she had put such a thing beyond
her hopes— beyond, most likely, her desires.
For had she not known where he lay hidden
? and had she not refrained from seeking
him, refrained even from letting him
know she was alive ? But when she found
herself on the point of dissolution, when
she had been told she had only a few hours

I

to live, when the delirium of death was
upon her, she had sent the child to him.
She had at least the grace to feel her shame,
and sufficient knowledge of him to be certain
that no consideration on earth would
induce him once more to look on her, the
woman he had loved, who had • betrayed
his honour and laid his life in ruin.

But the boy? What was to be done
with him ?

The night before he had been too stupefied
to think. When Philip left him he had
taken the child to his own room and put
him in his own bed, and the little fellow,
overcome by fatigue and the lateness of
the hour, had fallen asleep.

Now it was bright, clear, unclouded
morning, the morning after the boy's
advent. The little fellow still slept, but
the father was broad awake. He had
risen at five, and was sitting in the room

where Philip had found him the evening
before. His elbows rested on the table ;
his head leaned upon his hands.

What should he do with the boy ? Her
child? — the child of the woman who had
brought infamy on his name, who had taken
the heart out of his life, leaving nothing
but a harsh and battered husk behind?

The child was like her, too. He had
known the first moment he looked on the
little face that this was the baby she had
stolen away from his home when he thought
she was gradually growing to love him,
when he thought she had forgotten for ever
the villain who had induced her perfidy!

Like her ! Good Heavens ! was this child
to live with him always ? Was this child,
day after day, hour after hour, to remind
him by the look in his eyes of all his youthful
dreams of love and happiness, and the
weltering blow that for a time drove his

I

I

reason from him and wrecked his life before
the voyage was well begun ?

That would be intolerable. No man
could bear that. Heaven could not expect
him to endure such a hell on earth.

He rose with a groan, and began pacing
the room up and down.

He was a man slightly below the middle
height, somewhat uncouth and awkward in
his motions. His shoulders were broad, his
figure thin almost to emaciation. He had
large and powerful hands, not handsome
and soft, but muscular and knotty, like
those of a man who had done much physical
labour, although he had never performed a
day's manual work in all his life. His
nose was long and blunt at the end. Ho
cheeks were sunken. There were odd grey
streaks in his long, straight hair. He
stooped slightly, and was slovenly in his
carriage and dress. The colour of his face

was dark, almost dusky. His forehead was
high and pale.

The mere shell of the man was poor,
almost mean. He did not look as though
he could fight or work. Beyond the
breadth of his shoulders there was no
suggestion of bodily strength about him.
When he walked his tread lacked firmness.
He looked as though the push of a child
would knock him down.

But when you had formed a poor opinion
of the man, and set him down as a weed,
and were prepared to make short work of
him morally, or mentally, or physically,
and came close to him face to face, and he
looked up at you and spoke, you felt confused,
abashed. His eyes were dark hazel,
large, deep-set, luminous. They seldom
moved quickly, they seldom flashed, they
seldom laughed. They rarely seemed concerned
with the people or things immediately

in front of him. They had the
awful sadness and far-away look of the
Sphinx. They saw not you, nor through
you, but beyond you. You became not the
object of their gaze, but an interruption in
their range. They made you feel that you
were in the way. You seemed to be an
impertinence interposing between a great
spirit in its commune with supernatural
and august mysteries.

His voice was slow, deliberate, low in
ordinary speech. It was not musical. It
had a breathlessness about it which fixed
the attention at once of those who heard.
It suggested that the words spoken were
read from the margin of some mighty page,
and that the speaker, if he chose, could
decipher the subject of the scroll.

If he raised his voice above this pitch it
became uncertain, harsh, grating, discordant.
It suggested the unwilling awakening

VOL. I. 13

of the man. It seemed to say that he lived
at peace, and would that he were left at
peace, and that you came unnecessarily,
undesired, to rouse and harass him.

But it was when excited beyond this
second stage, it was when not only
awakened but lifted into the expression of
enthusiasm, that the wonderful qualities of
his voice were displayed. Then it became
full and rich and flexible and organ-toned,
at once delicate and powerful. It sounded
as though not only the words, but the music
also, were written on the great scroll before
his eyes, and he was reading both with
authority.

It was the spirit in the eyes and the
spirit in the voice Philip Eay worshipped.
He knew the heart of this man was made
of gold, but in the eyes and the voice he
found the spirit of a seer, a hero, a
prophet.

The spirit of this man Kate Eay never

knew, never even perceived. She was too

busy with the thought of her own physical

beauty to notice anything in the man but

his plain appearance and unusual ways.

He had more money than ever she had

hoped to share with a husband, but he

cared nothing for the things she liked or

coveted. He would not take a house in

London : he would not move into even

Beechley. The only value he set upon a

competency was because of the power it

o^ave him over books, and because of the

privilege it afforded him of living far away

from the hurly-burly of men. His union

with Kate Eay was an ill-assorted marriage,

and the greatest evil that can arise out

of an ill-assorted marriage had come

of it.

From the day Kate left his house he

never opened a volume of verse. At first

13—2

he plunged into a vortex of excitement,
from which he did not emerge until he had
lost in gambling everything but Boland's
Ait, which brought in no revenue, and an
income of about a hundred a year from
some property in the neighbourhood of the
island.

When he regained his senses, and resolved
upon retiring into solitude, he
recognised the importance, the necessity
of finding some occupation for his mind.
He would have nothing which could remind
him of the past, nothing which could
recall to his mind the peaceful days at
Shoreham or the joy and hope that his
sweetheart and wife had brought into his
life. All that was to be forgotten for ever.
His life was over. It was immoral to
anticipate the stroke of death. Between
him and death there lay nothing to desire
but oblivion, and work was the best thing

in which to drown thought. He would
devote the remainder of his life to history,
philosophy, science.

Although he had been on the island now
more than two years, he had still no definite
idea of turning his studies to practical account.
He read and read and made elaborate
notes and extracts from books. But
his designs were vague and nebulous. He
called it all work. It kept his mind off the
past : that was the only result of all his
labours. He had no object to work for.
He shuddered at the bare idea of notoriety
or fame, and he did not need money, for his
means were sufficient for his simple wants.
Work was with him merely a draught of
Lethe. He numbed his brain with reading,
and when he could read no longer he
copied out passages from his books or
forced himself to think on subjects which
would not have been bearable three years

t

ago. He was not no much conquering
himself as dulling his power to feel.

Now, in upon this life had come the boy,
bringing with him more potent voices from
the past than all the verses of all the poets ;
and, worst of all, bringing with him the
face of his disgraced, dead wife !

What should he do ? Either madness or
death would be a relief, but neither would
come. The two things of which men ar
most afraid are madness and death, and
here was he willing to welcome either withall
the joy of which his broken heart was
still capable.

When that baby was born he had felt
no affection for it on its own account. It
seemed inexpressibly dear to her, and therefore
it was after her the most precious being
in all the world to him. Up to that time
he knew his wife's heart had not gone out
to him in love as his heart had gone out to

her. He believed that the child would bethe
means of winning his beautiful wife's
love for him. He had read in books innumerable
that wives who had been indifferent
towards their husbands in the early
days of marriage grew affectionate when
children came. For this reason he welcomed
with delight the little stranger. This
baby would be a more powerful bond between
them than the promises made by herat
the altar. It would not only reconcile
her to the life-long relations upon which
they had entered, but endear him to her.

But she broke her vow, broke the bond
between them, and in fleeing from his house
took with her the child, the creature that
was dearer to her than he ! Here was food
lor hopelessness more bitter than despair.

Now, when hope was buried for ever, and
she was dead, the child had come back to
remind him every hour of the past, to neutralise

the cups of Lethe he felt bound to
drink, that his life might not be a life of
never-ending misery, to torture him with
his wife's eyes, which had closed on him forever
three years ago, and which now were
closed for ever on all things in death.

What should he do ? Would not merciful
Providence take his reason away, or
stop these useless pulses in his veins ?

He threw himself once more in his chair,
and covered his face with his hands.

From abroad stole sounds of the awakening
world. The heavy lumbering and
grating of wagons and carts came from
Welford Eoad, and from the tow-path the
dull heavy thuds of clumsy horses' feet.

The man sat an hour in thought, in
reverie.

A t length Bramwell took down his hands
and raised his large eyes, in which there
now blazed the fire of intense excitement.

'•' Light ! " he cried aloud ; " God grant me
light!"

He kept his eyes raised. His lips moved,
but no words issued from them. An expression
of ecstasy was on his face. His cry
had not been a cry for light, but a note of
gratitude-giving that light had been vouchsafed
to him. He was returning thanks.

At length his lips ceased to move, the
look of spiritual exaltation left his face, his
eyes were gradually lowered, and he rose
slowly from his seat.

He stood a minute with his hand on his
forehead, and said slowly, " I was thinking
of myself only. I have been thinking of
myself only all my life. I have, thank God,
something else, some one else to think of
now ! Who am I, or what am I, that I
should have expected happiness, complete
happiness, bliss ? Who am I, or what am
I, that I should repine because I suffer ?

Who am I, or what am I, that I should
murmur ? My eyes are open at last. My
eyes are open, and my heart too. Let me
go and look."

He crept noiselessly out of the room to
the one in which the boy lay still sleeping.

The chamber was full of the broad full
even light of morning in early summer.
The window stood open, the noise of the
carts and wagons came from Welford Eoad,
and the dull heavy thuds of the clumsy
horses' hoofs from the tow-path. The sparrows
were twittering and flickering about
the cottage on the island. Dull and grimy
as the place usually appeared, there was
now an air of health and brightness and
vigorous life about it which filled and expanded
the heart of the recluse.

For years he had felt that he was dead,
that his fellowship with man had ceased forever.
His heart was now opened once more.

Who should cast the first stone, the first
stone into an open grave, her grave, Kate's
grave ? His Kate's grave ! Not he ; 0,
not he ! His 3^oung, his beautiful, his darling
Kate's grave ! His young Kate's grave !

He turned to the bed on which rested
the child.

Yes, there lay young Kate, younger than
ever he had known her. The beautiful
boy! There was her raven hair, there the
sweet strange curve of the mouth, thercthe
little hand under the cheek, as Kate used
to lie when she slept.

God give me life and reason for him
who is so like what I have lost ! " he cried ;
and circling his arm round the little head,
he kissed the sweet strange curve about the
little mouth, and burst into tears, the first
he had shed for a dozen long years. In
his great agony three years ago he had not
wept.

AN ISLE OF SURREY.

The child awoke, smiled, stretched up his
little arms, and caught his father round the
neck.

I want to go mother," whimpered the
boy when he saw whom he held.

"You cannot go just now, child. But
you and I shall go to her one day — in
Heaven."

<^

m^^^

^=^f«

CAN I PLAY WITH THAT LITTLE BOY ? "

Hetty Layard was not sorry when, upon
the morning of Mr. William Crawford's
return from the Counters Club, she found
a note for her brother Alfred, explaining
that he had gone out for an early walk,
the weather was so lovely, and that Fie
would not be back until next month, when
he hoped to find her and Mr. Layard very
well ; and thanking her and him for the
entertainment afforded him. He, moreover,
left her a cheque — one collected
the previous day — for a couple of sovereigns,
out of which he begged her to take
whatever sis food had cost and half-a-crown
which she was to present from him
to Mrs. Grainger.

Miss Layard uttered a little sigh of relief
when she put down the note. Every one
knows that men are a nuisance about a
house, especially men who have no fixed
or regular business hours of absence. Men
are very well in their own way, which
means to the housewife when they are not
in her way. A man who is six, eight, or
ten hours away from home every day, and
goes to church twice on Sunday and takes
a good long walk between the two services,
may not only be tolerated, but enjoyed.
But a man who does not get up until ten
o'clock and keeps crawling or dashing
about the house all day long is an unmitigated
and crushing evil. It does not
matter whether he wears heavy boots or
affects the costume of a sybaritic sloven,
and wanders about like a florid and venerable
midday ghost in dressing-gown and
slippers.

A woman's house is not her own as leonidas
there is a man it. While enduring the
presence of male impertinence she cannot
do exactly as she likes. There is at least
one room she may not turn topsy-turvy, if
the fit takes her. There is no freedom, no
liberty. If the man remain quietly in one
room, there is the unpleasant feeling that he
must be either dead or hungry. A man has
very little business to be in the house during
day-time unless he is either dead or hungry.
If the man does not confine himself to one
room he is quite certain to go stumbling
over sweeping-brushes and dust-pans in
passages where he has no more right to be
than a woman behind the counter of a
bank or on the magisterial bench. From,
say, ten o'clock in the morning till four in
the afternoon you really can't have too
little of a man about a house. Very practical
housekeepers prefer not to see their

male folk between nine and seven. Undoubtedly,
strong-minded women believe
that two meals a day and the right to sleep
under his own roof of nights is as much as
may with advantage to comfort be allowed
to man.

But Hetty Layard was not strong-minded
at all. She was not over tender-hearted
either, though she was as tender-hearted as
becomes a young girl of healthy body and
mind, one not sicklied over with the pale
cast of sentimentalism. She was as bright
and cheerful as spring ; but all the same,
she was not sorry when she found her
lodger had fled, and that they were to
have the place to themselves for a month.

That day Hetty was to enjoy the invaluable
service of Mrs. Grainger from breakfast
to tea-time. From that day until Mr.
Crawford's next visit Mrs. Grainger was to
come only for a couple of hours in the

forenoon every day to do the rough work.
Mrs. Grainger was childless, and could be
spared from her own hearth between breakfast
and supper, as her husband took his
dinner with him to the works, and had
supper and tea together.

So the unfortunate man has succeeded
in getting out of your clutches," said Alfred
Layard at his late breakfast, when Hetty
told him the news.

Yes ; but he left something behind
him. Look." She handed her brother
the cheque. "I am to take the price of all
he has had out of this, and give half-a-crown
to Mrs. Grainger."

Alfred Layard shook his head very
gravely. " Hetty, I had, I confess to you,
some doubts of this man's sanity ; I
have no longer any doubt. The man is
mad!"

Considering that we are obliged to find

VOL. I. 14

attendance, I think he has been very
generous to Mrs. Grainger."

As mad as a hatter," said the brother
sadly.

If, Alfred, I tell you how much to take
out of this, will you send him the change,
or is the change to remain over until next
time?"

"The miserable man is as mad as a
March hare."

See ! This is all I spent for him — twelve
and threepence, and that includes a lot of
things that will keep till he comes again."

"To think of this poor man trusting a
harpy, a lodging-house keeper, with untold
gold! 0, the pity of it!"

There are candles and lamp-oil, and
tea and soap, and sugar, and other things
that will keep, Alfred. You can explain
this when you are sending him the change.
I suppose it will be best to send him the

change . You have his Eichmond address?"


Freddie," said the father, addressing
his flaxen-haired, blue-eyed little son at the
other side of the table, " when you grow
up and are a great big man, don't lodge
with your Aunt Hetty. She'd fleece you,
my boy. She'd starve you, and she
wouldn't leave you a rag to cover you."
He shook a warning finger at the boy.

I shall live always with Aunt Hetty**
said the boy stoutly, " and I want more
bread-and-butter, please."

See my poor child, she is already
practising. If she only had her way, she
would reduce you to a skeleton in a
week."

Alfred, I wish you'd be sensible for a

minute. This is business. I really don't

know what to do, and you ought to tell me.

Will you look at this list, and see if it is

14—2

properly made out ? " she said pouting.
She had a pretty way of affecting to pout
and then laucfhinflf at the idea of her beinoj
in a bad humour.

Her brother took the slip of paper and
glanced at it very gravely.

May I ask," said he, putting down the
slip on the breakfast cloth, " whether this
man has had his boots polished here ? "

Of course he had ; twice — three times I
think."

And had he free and unimpeded use of
condiments, such as salt, pepper, vinegar,
mustard ? "

"Yes. You don't think he could eat
without salt, do you ? "

Perhaps — perhaps he even had

PICKLES ? "

I think he had some pickles."
Then, Hetty " — he rose, and, buttoning
up his coat, made signs of leaving — " I am

going to find an auctioneer to sell up the
furniture. We are ruined."

Ah, Alfred, like a good fellow, help
me ! " she pleaded, coming to him and putting
her hand on his arm. " What do you
mean by asking all those silly questions
about blacking and vinegar ? "

Not one, Hetty, not one of the items I
have named is charged in the bill, and I ama
pauper, pauperised by your gross carelessness,
by the shamefully lax way in which
you have kept my books. What do you
think would become of the great corporation
I serve if our accounts were kept in so
criminally neglectful a manner ? Why, the
Welford Gas Company would be in liquidation
in a month ! Suppose we treated ammonia
lightly ; suppose we gave all our coke
to the Mission to the Blacks for distribution
among the negroes ; suppose we made a
present of our tar to the Royal Academicians

to make aniline colours for pictures to be
seen only by night ; suppose we gave all
our gas to aeronauts who wanted to stare
the unfortunate man in the moon out of
countenance ; suppose we supplied all our
customers with dry meters, Hetty ; suppose,
I say, we supplied all our customers with
dry meters, where should we be? Where on
earth should we be ? "

Perhaps not on earth at all, Alfred, but
gone up to heaven with the aeronauts. Do
be sensible for a moment. I want you to
tell me if we are to keep the change until
next time or send it after him ? "

Have you given that half-a-crown to
Mrs. Grainger ? "

"Yes."

0, you prodigal simpleton ! What need
was there to give it ? Why did you not keep
it and buy a furbelow ? No doubt you were
afraid that when this man came back he

would find out all about it. Nonsense I
Why, we could dismiss Mrs. Grainger, and
if she came loafing about the place, nothing
in the world could be easier than to push
her into the canal. I like her husband,
and it would please me to do him a good
turn."

There was a knock at the door, and the
charwoman put in her head.

"Come in, Mrs. Grainger. What is it ? "
said Hetty, going towards the door.

Mrs. Grainger, in her lilac cotton dreSs
and large apron, advanced a step into the
room. Her sleeves were rolled up above
the elbows of her red thick arms. She
was a stout, fair-faced woman of fifty.
She had not a single good feature in her
face. But her expression was wholly
honest and not unkindly.

Layard could not help looking from her
to Hetty and contrasting the joyous youth

and grace, the fresh colour and golden-brown
hair of the girl, and the dull, dead,
unintelligent drab appearance of the woman.

I beg your pardon, Miss Layard," said
the charwoman, " but you were talking tome
yesterday and the day before about the
poor lonely gentleman that lives on Boland's
Ait."

"Yes. Well, what about him? Have
you found out anything fresh ? " said Hetty
with interest.

Only that he isn't alone any longer."

You don't mean to say he has got married
and has just brought his wife home,"
said Layard, affecting intense astonishment
and incredulity.

"No, sir," said the woman, somewhat
abashed by his manner. " Not a wife, sir,
but a child ; a little boy about the size of
Master Freddie there."

Bless my soul, wonders will never cease !

Lut I say, Hetty, I must be off. If the Cham
of Tartary and the great sea-serpent came
to live on that island, and had asked me to
swim across and have tiffin and blubber
with them, I couldn't go now. I must be
off to the works. Hetty, we'll resume the
consideration of the cruet-stand when I
come back this evening. Let all those matters
stand till then. The delay will give us
an opportunity of charging interest for the
money in hand."

He hastened from the room, and in a
minute was out of the house and hastening
up Crawford Street, with the long streamers
of his beard blowing over his shoulders.

Where did you see the child from, Mrs.
Grainger ? " asked Hetty, when her brother
disappeared up the street. " From Mr.
Crawford's room? "

No, miss ; you can't see into the timber-yard
on the island from Mr. Crawford's

room on account of the wall. But you can
see over the wall from your own room,
miss ; and 'twas from your own room I saw
the child. And he was carrying on, too,
with, that child, miss," said the woman,
coming further into the room, and busying
herself about clearing away the breakfast-things.


She was not exactly idle or lazy ; but
no living woman would rather scrub and
scour than chat, particularly when paid
by time and not by piece.

What do you mean by ' carrying on ? '
What was he doing ? "

Well, he was kissing, and cuddling, and
hugging the child, more like a mother with
her baby than a man with a child. The
boy is quite as big as little Master Freddie
there, and the poor gentleman seemed to
be pretending the great boy couldn't walk
without help, for he led him by the hand

up and down the yard, and when he did let
go of lira for a moment he kept his handover
the little chap's head, like to be ready
to catch hold of him if he was failing or
stumbled. A great big boy, as big as
Master Freddie there ; it's plain to be seen
he's not used to children," said Mrs.
Grainger scornfully ; for, although she had
no children of her own, she was sympathetic
and cordial with little ones, and often
looked after a neighbour's roomful of babies
while the mother went out marketing or took
the washing, or mangling, or sewing home.

Perhaps it is his own child," said Hetty,
as she helped to put the breakfast things
on the tray.

His own child ? Of course it isn't. How
could it be ? Why, if it was his own child
he'd be used to it. He'd know better than
to go on with such foolery as guiding it
with his hand along a level yard. He

doesn't know anything about children, no
more than the ground they are walking on."

"Perhaps he is afraid it might fall into
the water. I'll wash up the breakfast-things
myself, Mrs. Grainger."

Very well, miss. Afraid it might fall
into the water ! Why, the child couldn't.
They're in the timber-yard, and there's a
wall all around it, and neither of the gates
is open."

Well," said Hetty, as the woman left
the room carrying the tray, " maybe he is
looking after the child for some friend ;
perhaps the child has only come on a visit
to him."

Look after a child for a friend ! Is he
the sort of man to look after a child for a
friend ? " Mrs. Grainger called out from the
kitchen. "What friend would ask a manlike
him to mind a child ? I'd as soon
ask a railway-engine or a mangle to look

after a child of mine, if I had one. Besides,
if the child belongs to a friend, what does
he mean by kissing and cuddling it ? "

*' I give it up," said the girl. " I own I
can make nothing of it. What do you
think, Mrs. Grainger ? You know more
about this strange man and his strange
ways than I do."

I think," said Mrs. Grainger, in the
voice of one uttering an authoritative decision,
" the whole thing is a mystery, and
I can make nothing of it. But you, miss,
go up and look. If you want to see him,
he is in the timber-yard. Go to your room,
miss, and have a peep. You may be able
to make something of it ; I can't."

I will," said the girl ; '- 1 shall be down
in a few minutes." And she ran out of the
sitting-room, upstairs with a light springy
step, and the murmured burden of a song
on her lips.

She went to the open window of her own
room and looked out.

It was close on noon, and the blazing
light of early summer filled all the place
beneath her. The view had no charms of
its own, but the fact that she was above
the ground and away from immediate contact
with the sordid earth had a purifying
effect upon the scene. Then, again, what
place is it that can look wholly evil when
shone upon by the unclouded sun of fresh
May?

In front and to right and left the canal
flamed in the sunlight. At the other side of
the water lay a sloping bank of lush green
grass, beyond that a road, and at the other
side of the road a large yard, in which a
great number of gipsy-vans, and vans belonging
to cheap-Jacks and to men who
remove furniture, were packed.

So far, if there was nothing to delight,

there was nothing to displease the spectator.
In fact, from a scenic point of view
the colour was very good, for you had the
flaming canal, the dark green of the grassy
bank, and the red and yellow and blue
caravans of the gipsies and the cheap-Jacks
and the people who remove furniture.

Beyond this yard there spread a vast
extent of small, mean, ill-kept houses which
were not picturesque, and which suggested
painful thoughts concerning the squalor and
poverty of the people who lived in them.

To the right stretched the tow-path leading
to Camberwell, to the left a row of
stores, and only a hundred yards off was
the empty ice-house. To the right lay Lee-ham,
invisible from where the girl stood,
and nearer and visible a row of stores and
a stone-yard.

In front of her was Boland's Ait, and in
the old timber-yard of the islet Francis

Bramwell walking up and down, holding
the hand of a boy of between three and four
in his hands, as though the child had
walked for the first time within this month
of May.

Mrs. Grainger was right. This man,
whose face Hetty could not see, for he bent
low over the child, was treating the boy as
though he were no more than a year or
fifteen months old. He was also displaying
towards him a degree of affection altogether
inconsistent with the supposition
that the youngster was merely the son of
a friend.

The two were walking up and down the
yard, the right hand of the child in the
left hand of the man, the right hand of the
man at one time resting lightly on the boy's
head, at another on the boy's shoulder.
The man's whole mind seemed centred on
his charge. He never once raised his head

to look around. No doubt the thought
that he might be observed never occurred
to him. For two years he had lived on
that island, and never until now arose
a chance of any one seeing him when he
was in the yard ; for the only windows that
overlooked it were those of Crawford's
House, and that had been unoccupied until
three days ago.

Suddenly it occurred to Hetty that she
was intruding upon this stranger's privacy. .
Of course she was free to look out of her
own window as long as she liked ; but then
it was obvious Bramwell thought there was
no spectator, or, at all events, he had not
bargained in his mind for a spectator.

A faint flush came into her cheek, and
she was on the point of drawing back when
a loud shrill voice sounded at her side :

Aunt Hetty, Aunt Hetty, I want to seethe
little boy ! "

VOL. I. 15

The girl started, and then stood motionless,
for the recluse below had suddenly-looked
up, and was gazing in amazement at
the girl and child in the window above him.

The man and boy in the yard were both
bare-headed. Bramwell raised his open
hand above his eyes to shield them from
the glare of the sky, that he might see the
better.

Hetty drew back a pace, as though she
had been discovered in a shameful act. Her
colour deepened, but she would not go altogether
away from the window. That would
be to admit she had been doing something
wrong.

Aunt Hetty," cried Freddie, in the same
shrill loud voice, " can I play with that
little boy down there ? I have no one to
play with here."

The upturned face of the man smiled,
and the voice of the man said, " Come down,

my little fellow, and play with this boy.
He is just like yourself — he has no one to
play with. You will let him come, please ?
I will take the utmost care of him."

I — I'll see," stammered Hetty, quite
taken aback.

"You will let him come? 0, pray do.
My little fellow has no companion but me,"
said the deep, full, rich pleading voice of
the man.

In her confusion Hetty said, " If it's safe.
If he can get across."

0, it's quite safe. I will answer for
the child. I'll push across the stage in a
moment, and fetch the child. There is
plenty of room for them to play here, and
absolutely no danger."

15—2

PHILIP RAY AT RICHMOND.

Once Philip Eay started on any course lie
was not the man to let the grass grow under
his feet. All his time was not at his disposal.
He was in the Custom House, and
for several hours a day he was chained to
his desk.

No sooner were his duties discharged on
the day following the arrival of the boy at
Boland's Ait than he hastened to Ludgate
Hill railway station and took the first train
to Eichmond.

He had not worked out any definite plan
of search. His mind was not a particularly
orderly one. Indeed, he was largely a
creature of impulse, and in setting out he

I

had only two ideas in his head. First, to
find the man who had caused all the shame
and misery ; and, second, to execute summary
vengeance on that man the moment
he encountered him.

He did not seek to justify himself morally
in this course ; he did not consider the moral
aspect of his position at all. When his blood
was up he was impulsive, headlong. He
had made up his mind three years ago that
John Ainsworth deserved death at his hands
for the injury done, and neither during any
hour of these three years nor now had he
the slightest hesitancy or compunction.

He had sworn an oath that he would kill
this man if ever he could get at him, and
kill him he would now in spite of consequences.
People might call it a cowardly
murder if they pleased. What did he care ?
This man deserved death, and if they chose
to hang him afterwards, what of that ? He

was quite prepared to face that fate. Kate
was dying or dead ; the honourable name of
Eay had been disgraced for ever ; the life
of the man he loved best in all the world
had been blasted by a base, vicious scoundrel,
and he would shoot that scoundrel just
as he would shoot a mad dog or a venomous
snake. He was inexorable.

No thought of seeking his sister entered
his mind. She was, doubtless, dead by this
time. From the moment she left her husband's
roof she had been dead to him. In
the presence of Frank, and with that letter
before him, he had held his tongue regarding
her. But his mind was completely
unchanged. The best thing that could
happen to her was that she should die. A
woman who could do what she had done
deserved no thought of pity, had no place
in the consideration of sane people ; a
woman who could leave Frank Mellor, now

known as Francis Bramwell, for John Ains-worth,
deserved no pity, no human sympathy.
She had sinned in the most heinous
way against loyalty ; let him show that all
the blood of the family was not base and
traitorous. He would sin on the other side
to make matters even.

He knew that such forms of vengeance
were not usual in this time and country.
So much the worse for this time and
country. What other kind of satisfaction
was possible ? The law courts ? Monstrous
! How could the law courts put
such a case right ? By divorcing those
dio had already been divorced ! By a
money penalty exacted from the culprit !
Pooh, pooh! H a man shot a man they
hanged him, put him out of pain at once.
But if a man was the cause of a woman's
lingering death from shame and despair,
and imposed a life of living-death on an

innocent human being, they let the miscreant
go scot-free ; unless, indeed, they
imposed a fine such as they would inflict
for breach of an ordinary commercial contract.
The idea that treatment of this
sort had even the semblance of justice
could not be entertained by a child or an
idiot !

Before setting out from Ludgate Hill
and on the way down to Eichmond nothing
seemed more reasonable than that he
should take the train to that town, and
without any serious difficulty find John
Ainsworth. The town was not large, and
he could give any one of whom he asked
aid the man's name and a full description
of his appearance. He possessed, moreover,
the additional fact that Ainsworth
had shaved his face, taken off his beard,
whiskers, and moustache. He should be
on his track in an hour, and face to face

with Ains worth in a couple of hours at
the outside.

He stepped briskly out of the train at
Eichmond, and waited until the platform
was cleared of those who had alighted.
Then he spoke to the most intelligent
porter he could find. First of all he gave
the man a shilling. He said he was in
search of a Mr. John Ainsworth, a gentleman
of about thirty-five or thirty-seven
years of age, five feet eight or thereabouts,
with a quick restless manner, a clean-shaven
roundish face, dark hair and dark eyes, in
figure well made, but inclining to stoutness.

The porter knew no gentleman of the
name, he was sorry to say, and recalled
a great number of gentlemen who corresponded
in some respects with the description,
but none that corresponded withall.
As far as he was aware, there was
no man of the name in Eichmond — that

is, no gentleman of the name. He knew
a Charles A ins worth, a cabdriver, but
Charles Ainsworth was five feet eleven or
six feet, and no more than twenty-five years
of age. Perhaps the stationmaster might
be able to help.

The stationmaster knew no one of the
name — that is, no one named John Ains-worth.
He knew Charles Ainsworth the
cabdriver. He could not identify any one
corresponding to Eay's description, but
the interrogator must remember that a
great number of gentlemen passed through
that station from week's end to week's end.
Why not look in a directory and find out
his friend's address at once?

Of course. That was an obvious course.
It had not occurred to Eay before.

Accordingly he left the station, and
turned into an hotel and asked to see the
local directory.

No John Aiiiswortli here.

Another disappointment. But this was
not disheartening ; for Ainsworth in all
likelihood was not a householder. At the
hotel they suggested that the post-office
would be the place to learn the address
of his friend.

Eay smiled grimly as he noticed that the
three people of whom he had inquired all
referred to Ainsworth as his " friend."

His luck at the post-office was bad also.
Nothing was known there of any Ainsworth
but Charles, the cabdriver.

This was becoming exasperating. The
man he sought could not have vanished
into thin air. Edward Lambton, who saw
Ainsworth, was quite sure of his identity.
When a man recognises another who has
taken off his beard, whiskers and moustache,
there is not the slightest room for
doubt of the identification, particularly if

the identification is casual, not suggested,
spontaneous.

Ray felt more than exasperated now.
He was furious. He walked about the
town for an hour, asking here and there,
but could find no trace of John Ainsworth.
He was no more known in the place than
if he had never been born.

Suddenly he stopped with an exclamation
of surprise and anger, "I am a
lunatic!" he cried in a low voice, "I'm a
born lunatic ! Is it because Lambton saw
Ainsworth on the platform of this place
that he must live here? Might not ten
thousand people have seen me on the platform
of this place an hour or so ago, and
do I live here? Indeed I do not think
any human being out of Bedlam could be
so hopelessly idiotic as I have been to
feel sure he lived here."

He found his way back to the station

and returned, to town. He got out at
Camber well, and walked from there to
Boland's Ait. It was upon this occasion
that Crawford, sallying from Layard's,
learnt from Eed Jim how the man who had
come along the tow-path had failed to
emerge from the cover of the island.

"And what have you been doing all
day ? " asked Eay, when he was seated in
one of the armchairs in the study or diningroom
of the cottage.

The boy was seated on the floor, turning
over the leaves of a book full of pictures.

We have been busy and playing," said
Bramwell, nodding towards the child. " I
was putting the place to rights, getting in
order for my new lodger. I thought you
would have come sooner." For the first
time in three years Francis Bramwell spoke
sin a cheerful tone and looked almost happy.
There had always been a great deal of reserve

in this man, but now he seemed more
open and free than he had ever appeared
even before his marriage. Suffering had
purified, and the presence of his son, whom
he had taken into his heart, had soothed
and humanised the recluse.

Eay paused in doubt as to whether he
should tell the other of his visit to Richmond.
He had taken no notice of the boy
upon his entrance, but he was pleased and
grateful that Bramwell showed an awakened
interest in life. The child had done this,
and his heart softened towards the little
fellow. Anything that brought light to his
brother-in-law was an object of thankfulness.
If his friend, his brother, as he called
him, were in better spirits, owing to the
coming of the child, why should he dissipate
them by telling him of his search of
vengeance. He answered the question of
the other by saying :

"I was delayed. I lead to attend to
something."

Bran well's face darkened. Philip had
no secret from him. He was a man who
could keep nothing from a friend. Why
did he not say what had detained him ?
There could be only one explanation : the
delay had been caused by something in
connection with the letter Philip had received
the evening before. It was plain to
Bramwell what had detained Kate's brother,
Bramwell said very gravely :

You have been to Eichmond ? "

Philip nodded.

Ah," Bramwell sighed heavily, " I
thought so ! Did you find out anything ? "

"Nothing. Absolutely nothing. He is
not known there. I tried at the railway
station, in the directory, at the post-office,
in a dozen shops. No account or trace was
to be found of the scoundrel."

Thank Heaven ! "

"I do not believe he lives there. He
must have been only in the town a little
while, visiting some one, or passing through,
on some new devil's work, I will swear."

It was a mercy for you that he was not
to be found."

A mercy for him, you mean."

Por a few minutes Bramwell seemed
plunged in gloomy thought. The two men
were silent. At length the elder shook
himself, rose, and said :

Come, see the arrangements I have
made for the boy. He is to sleep in my
room. I am going to give him my bed.
The stretcher will do excellently for me. I
have spoken to Mrs. Treleaven — you know
the woman who brings me what I want
every morning. She is to come for an hour
or two a day and keep matters right for us.
Up to this she. has never been on the Ait,

but I could not myself keep the place as
tidy as I should like now that I am not
alone. Early impressions are lasting, and I
must do the best I can to brighten up this
hermitage for the sake of the new young
eyes. Come ! "

The two men went to the bedroom.

See," said the father, with a sad smile ;
I have laid down this bit of old carpet,
and hung up these prints, and put the
stretcher close to the bed, so that I may be
near him, and also that it may serve as a
step when he is getting in and out of his
own bed. Children, I have often read,
should sleep in beds by themselves ; and,
above all, it is not wholesome for them to
sleep with grown-up people. You don't
think this place is unhealthy for a child,
Philip?"

0, no ! You have enjoyed very good
health here."

VOL. I. 16

What a change — what a blessed change
had come over this man! He had been
re-born, re-created by the touch of those
chubby fingers and young red lips ; by the
soft, silky hair and the large dark eyes ; by
the fresh, sweet clear voice, and the complete
dependency and helplessness of the
boy.

But I am a man in the vigour of life,"
said the father anxiously ; " and am therefore
able to resist influences of climate or
situation which might be perilous to one so
young and delicately formed, eh? You
don't think there is any danger in the
place?"

Certainly not."

But so much water that is almost stagnant
? You are aware that there is hardly
any current in the canal, and that there
are no locks on it?"

"0, yes; but I never heard any come



plaints of insalubrity, and you know the
neighbourhood of a gas-house, although it
does not make the air bright or sweet,
purifies it."

"I know; I thought of that. I know
that a still more unsavoury business — that
of candle-making — is a preventive to pestilence
; at least, it was in the days of the
Plague, and chandlers had immunities and
privileges on that account. But it is the
water I fear for him. None of your family,
Philip, had delicate chests ? "

No, no ; I think you may make your
mind easy. I am sure the boy will thrive
marvellously here."

Pm glad to hear you say so. Let us go
back. The poor Httle chap must not be
allowed to feel lonely. You did not take
any notice of him when you came in.
Philip," he put his hand on his brother's
arm, " you are not going to visit any anger

on the desolate orphan ? Eemember, he is
an orphan now ; and you must not bear ill-will
towards the dead, or visit the — the
faults of the parent on the child."

Tut, tut ! " said Philip, as they left the
room and returned to the study ; " I am
not going to do anything of the kind. I
took no notice of the child when I arrived
because my head was full of other things."

He went to the boy and raised him in his
arms, and pinched his cheek, and patted
his hair and kissed him.

"Thank you," said Bramwell. "I feel
new blood in my veins and new brains in
my head, and a new heart in my body. I
intend giving up dreaming for ever. I am
now going to try to make a little money.
Presently the child will have to be sent to
school — to a good school, of course."

"My dear Frank," cried Philip, with
tears in his eyes and voice, "it is better

to listen to you talk in this way than to
hear you had been made a king."

I am a king," cried the father in a tone
of exultation. " I am an absolute monarch.
I reign with undisputed sway over my
island home, and my subject is my own
son, whom I may mould and fashion as
I please, and whom no one will teach to
despise me."

END OF VOL I

KELLY AND CO., MIDDLE MILL, KINGSTON-ON-THAMES:

AND GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS, W.C.

:m^mmf^mmm§m^mmm

^mmmiimi»j&am»»issgsmssism^^

:»
«





I

J

i«
V
«

'I

«
V

,1

I

I

»
I
»

I)
II

■-<':%Si;i%?y'JK?g'-



mim

m

»m**my wpvn (^" u^' ■ mmmmmmuml

i

Yr)0rr)0S • (a/ipfriur ■ Tories.

What is a man
If his chief good and market of his time
Be but to sleep and feed ? A beast, no more.

OF THE

University

or ILLINOIS



P756L

1/-2

MIRACLE GOLD. 3 vols. 31/6.
THE MYSTERY OF KILLARD. 3/6.
FATAL BONDS. 3 vols. 31/6.
THE DUKE'S SWEETHEART 2s.
UNDER ST. PAUL'S. 2s.
THE SKELETON KEY. Is.

MR. DOWLING'S ESSAYS.

INDOLENT ESSAYS. 6s.
IGNORANT ESSAYS. 5s.

WARD & DOWNEY, PUBLISHERS, LONDON,

Jl ilotjcl.

Richard DOWLING,

AUTHOR OP

THE MYSTERY OP KILLARD," "THE DUKE's SWEETHEART,
UNDER ST. PAUL'S," " MIRACLE GOLD," ETC,

IN Three VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

Ward AND DOWNEY,

12, YORK STREET, CO VENT GARDEN, LONDON, W.C.
1889.

KELLY AND CO., MIDDLE MILL, KINGSTOK-ON-TirAME£

And GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS. W C.

1)1 SQ
V Z

CONTENTS

Chat'. VAGK

I. —An Invitation Accepted 1

11. — The Like at Richmond . 22

•
III. —How William Goddard changed his Name . 46

IV.— At Play . 68

v.— The Postman's Hail . . . .86

VI. — Private Theatricals 109

VII. — The Towpath by Night 134

VIII.— A Hostage at Cuawfoiid's House . . 164

IX. — CuAwi'ouD Sells a Patent . . .181

X.— William Crawford's Nightmare . . 197

XI.— "Man Overboard ! " 216

XII-reward for a Life 233

-^If

CHAPTER I.

AN INVITATION ACCEPTED.

"And so," said Alfred Layard to Hetty

the evening of the day little Freddie, now

in bed, had made his first visit to the

island, " you have absolutely spoken to

this Alexander Selkirk. Tell me all about

it."

She began, and told him how she went

up to her own room and saw Bramwell and

the boy in the yard on the island, and how

Freddie's cry had betrayed her presence,

and in the confusion at being found out

she had consented to let their youngster

go to play with the other youngster.
VOL. n. 17

You are not annoyed with me, Alfred,
for allowing him, are you ? " she asked
in some suspense. The little fellow had
never before been so long from under her
charge.

Annoyed ? Not I. What should I be
annoyed at, so long as the people are all
right, and there is no danger of Freddie
tumbling into the water?"

0, there is no danger whatever. A
wall runs all round the yard, and Mr.
Bramwell was in and out all day looking
after the boys."

How did Freddie get across ? Swam ? "
'don't be absurd, Alfred," She knew
very well her brother did not ask her
seriously if the child had swum across the
waters of Crawford's Bay. And she knew
equally well that he was not reproaching
her for letting the boy cross the water.
At an ordinary time she would have passed

by such a question from him in silence,
disregarded, but there lingered in her mind
a vague feeling that she stood on her defence
about the expedition of the morning,
and she felt timid under anything like
levity. " No ; when we got down and
out by the back door to the wharf we
saw Mr. Bramwell pulling a great long
floating thing made of timber through the
water. He pushed this over to where we
stood. It reached across the water. He
told us he had another of the same kind
on the canal side of the island'*
I know. A floating stage."
I daresay that is what they call it. I
should call it a floating bridge. Well, he
walked across this and took little Freddie
in his arms and carried him over. I was
a good deal frightened, for the thing rocked
horribly, but he told me there was no

danger."

17—2

Of course, there was no danger while
the child was carried by a careful man.
We had two of these stages at the works,
but we had to get rid of them, for the men
were always either going out for drink or
getting drink brought in for them."

"And, do you know, Freddie did not
cry or seem a bit afraid of the water."

Hetty, take my word for it that from
what you tell me there is the making of
a great naval hero in that boy of ours."

I wish you would try to be sensible
for a while."

''I think I shall call him from this date
Frederick Nelson Layard."

Don't be ridiculous, Alfred."

Or Frederick Cochrane Layard."

"0, don't, please, Alfred."

It is well to be prepared for fame, and
we should always take care that our children
are prepared for fame ; and what

more simple and inexpensive preparation
can a man have for fame than to be suited,
clothed, I may say, in a name becoming
fame ? Hetty, my dear, remind me in the
morning to decide which of these names
I shall finally adopt ; it is a matter that
admits of no delay. I would not think of
calling him Frederick Drake Layard for all
the world, because in the first place the
name Drake in connection with water
suggests a whole lot of frivolous peste,
always an abomination to me ; and in the
second place, there was too much of the
buccaneer about Drake. Hetty, don't forget
to remind me of the matter in the morning.
The boy wasn't sea-sick, I hope ? "

The girl only sighed this time. She had
now lost all sense of uneasiness about the
part she had played in the affair of the
morning.

"You know," he went on in a tone of

pleasant reverie, " I think something ought
to be done with the surname too. It would
be well to be ready at every point. All
you have to do is to write in an n, and you
have a distinctly nautical flavour. How do
you like Frederick Nelson Cochrane Lanyard?
But there — there — my girl, don't
answer me now. It is, you would naturally
say, too important a question to be
decided offhand. Think of the matter tonight.
Sleep on the idea, my dear Hetty,
and let me have your decision in the morning.
If in the dead waste and middle of
the night any difficulties which you think
I could solve arise in your mind, do not
fail to call me. I shall be happy to give
you any assistance in my power."

Are you out of breath, Alfred ? I
hope you are."

"No, but I am out of tea. Another
cup, please, and let us dismiss business

from our minds. Let us unbend. It
weakens the bow to keep it always bent.
Tell me, what is this man, our next-door
neighbour, like ? I have a theory myself
that he is a coiner."

Well, if he is a coiner you must not
think he uses much of his ill-gotten gold in
buying clothes. He's dreadfully shabby.
But, whatever else he may be, he is a
gentleman."

Good-looking, of course ? "

"No, but remarkable-looking. When
you see him you could never take him
for a common man. He seems awfully
clever."

Well, as some philosopher, whose name
has escaped me, says, we must take him as
we find him, though I must say it seems tome
that it would be very difficult to take
him as we do not find him, or as we find
him not. To be serious, Hetty "

0, thank goodness! at last ! " cried the
girl, with a sigh of relief, and raising her
eyes in gratitude.

If you don't take great care," he said,
shaking a long thin forefinger at her, " you
can't tell what may happen. I am not
the man to submit to bullying at your
hands. What I was going to say when
you threatened me is this, that while I have
no objection to Freddie going over now
and then to play with this boy "

"He promised to go over again tomorrow,"
interrupted Hetty.

All right ; let him go over tomorrow.
But for two or three reasons he must not
go over every day. This young — By the
way, what's his name ? "

"Bramwell. The man told me he was
his son, his only child."

Very good. This young Bramwell must
come over, turn and turn about, and play

with Freddie here. In the first place, I
think one of the up-stairs rooms is a safer
place for these young shavers than the
island, though there is a wall ; and in the
next place, this Bramwell is at work on
coining, or whatever it is, all day, and can't
be expected to look after two mischievous
boys of their age. Of course you can't
have the two of them here when we have
Crawford ; but that will not be for four
weeks more. That reminds me : he said h«
should like to see Freddie. Did he ask
afterwards for the boy ? "

"No. You see, he was busy tidying, or
rather untid3dng, his room all one day, and
he was out a good deal of the time, and
went away early in the morning."

"Just so. My sister, you are very quick
with excuses for your hero, your Bayard."

I still say what I said before."

Naturally you do. Women always do

Stick to what they say. They are the im-progressive
sex. But we will let him go
by. I confess, from the little I have
heard of this Bramwell — solitary now no
longer — I am interested in him. A man
who has kept himself to himself for years
must, if there ever was anything in him,
have something to say worth listening to
when he speaks. We are solitary enough
ourselves, goodness knows. Who can tell
but this Zimmermann may be induced to
cross the Hellespont, or, to be more near
the situation, cross over from his Negropont
to the mainland? When you meet
him tomorrow, say I should be very glad
if he would come to us and have a chat and
smoke a pipe."

''I vdll, but I'm sure he doesn't smoke."
Why are you sure of that, my sister ? "
"Because he has quite an intellectual
look."

'' Thank you, Hetty. Very neat indeed.
I shall not forget that thrust for a while.
Now " (he raised his warning finger again
and shook it at her with a look of portentous
meaning) " mind, this is the second
man you have fallen in love with during the
past three days, and the horrible part of the
matter is that both of them are married."

Whatever might be forgotten next morning,
one thing was sure to be recollected in
Crawford's House. It is a fact that Hetty
did not remember to draw her brother's
attention to the change of name projected
for Freddie the evening before. Nor,
strange to say, did her brother revert to
the contemplated alteration.

But what was remembered beyond all
chance of forgetting was that Freddie had
promised to go across to the island again
to-day. If the father and aunt happened
by any means to lose sight of the fact, they

were not allowed to remain a moment in
doubt about it. The first thing the boys
said when he opened his eyes was, " I'm to
go to play with Frank again to-day, ain't
I, Auntie Hetty ? "

At breakfast he had most of the talk to
himself, and all his talk was about Frank
and the island, and the boat by which he
had gone across, and Frank's father, who
had given them both sugar on bread-and-butter,
and the old barrow which was in
the yard, and which served them with great
fidelity as a cab, and a tramcar, and a
steamboat, and a house, and a canal-boat,
and a horse, and a great variety of other
useful appliances and creatures.

Are there wheels to that barrow ? "
asked the father as he got up to leave the
house for the works.

No, no wheels. But we play that there
are."

So much the better there are none.
And now, my young friend," said the father,
catching up the boy and kissing him, " take
care you do not fall out of that barrow and
cut your nose, and take care you don't hurt
the other little boy ; for if you do you shall
never, never, never go over to the island
again. Eemember that, won't you ? "

Yes," said Freddie, struggling out of his
father's arms in order to get on a chair
and see through the kitchen window if the
other little boy's father was already coming
to fetch him on that long narrow boat
across those wide waters to the haven of
joy, the old timber-yard beyond.

Alas ! the little boy's father was not there,
and to the young eyes the place looked desolate,
forlorn.

"Will Frank's father come soon, Mrs.
Grainger ? " asked Freddie, in a tone of
despair.

Of course he will. He'll be here in a
few minutes," said that good woman, who
knew absolutely nothing of Hetty's promise
of the previous afternoon, as she had left
the house long before Freddie came back
and the undertaking for another visit was
given. But Mrs. Grainger was fond of
children, and, if she had had any of her
own, would have spoiled them beyond hope
of reformation.

Frank said he'd be up very early," said
the boy in pensive complaint.

"And very early he'll be," said Mrs.
Grainger, as she polished the fender with
resolute vigour. " He'll be here, I warrant,
before you have time to say Jack Eobinson."

The phrase which Mrs. Grainger used to
indicate a very little while was new to the
boy, and he took it literally, and murmured
softly, in a voice that did not surmount the
sound of Mrs. Grainger's conflict with the

fender, " Jack Eobinson, Jack Eobinson,
Jack Eobinson ! " and then, finding the
soothsaying unfulfilled, he lapsed into a
spiritless silence, keeping his eyes fixed on
the point where he knew Bramwell must
come round the corner of the yard-wall.

Presently he raised a great shout and
clapped his hands, and, getting down from
the chair on which he had been standing,
tore, shouting through the house, to discover
his Aunt Hetty, and tell her the joyful
news and fetch his hat.

He found Hetty, and in quick haste the
aunt and nephew were out on the little quay
or wharf, and stretching towards them,
drawn by Francis Bramwell, was the long,
low, black floating stage.

Little Frank was not visible. His father
had left him safe behind the wall of the
yard. It would be unsafe to trust him on
the edge of Crawford's Bay, and dangerous

to carry two boys of so young an age across
that long, oscillating, crank raft.

Hetty stood at the edge of the water
holding the boy in her arms.

How do you do, Mrs. Layard r " said
Bramwell, lifting his battered billycock hat
as he landed. " I am indebted to your little
nephew for your name."

He spoke gravely, with an amelioration of
the subdued and serious lines of his face
that was almost a smile. During the past
two or three days he had not only re-inherited
the power of smiling, but had
absolutely laughed more than once at some
speech or action of his son's, or when his
thoughts took a pleasant turn about the
boy. But he had been so long out of use
in smiling or laughing that he could not
yet exercise these powers except in connection
with the child.

Hetty in some confusion said she was

very well, and thanked lira. Freddie's
summons had been sudden, and, at the
moment, unexpected, so that she felt slightly
embarrassed.

I am sure," the man said, keeping his
large, luminous, sphinx-like eyes on her, it
is very good of you to allow your little
fellow to come to play with mine. You dome
a great kindness in lending him to me.
I shall take the utmost care of him, I
pledge you my word." •

In these few seconds the girl had regained
her self-possession, and said, with one of
those bright sunny smiles of hers, in which
golden light seemed to dance in her blue
eyes, " Understand, I allow him to go as a
favour."

Undoubtedly," he said, bowing, and
then looking at her with a faint gleam of
surprise in his eyes.

And you will repay favour for favour ? "

VOL. IT. 18

If I can."

Well, my brother is a very lonely, home-keeping
man, who hardly ever has any one
to see him, and he told me to ask you if
you would do him the kindness of coming
in this evening for a little while, as he would
like to meet you, now that our young people
are such friends. That is the favour I ask.
I ask it for my brother's sake. Will you
come, please ? "

The man started, drew back, and looked
around him half-scared. The notion of
going into the house of another man had
not crossed his mind for two years. The
invitation sounded on his ears as though it
were spoken in a language familiar to him
in childhood, but which he had almost
wholly forgotten. He had come across the
water in order to secure a companion for
his little son ; but that any one should think
he would come across that water and speak

to people for an object of his own was
startling, disconcerting, subversive of all
lie had held for a long time : since his
arrival at the Ait.

Hetty saw that he hesitated, and, having
no clue to his thoughts, fancied her invitation
had not been pressing enough.

You will promise ? " she said, holding
Freddie out to him. " You said you would
do me a favour in return for the loan of the
boy. You wall not withdraw. It would
really be a great kindness, for my brother
is alone in the evenings except for me, and
he seldom goes out."

But Mrs. Layard " said the man, in

discomposure and perplexity, as he took
Freddie in his arms, and hardly knowing
what he said.

Ah ! " said the girl, shaking her head,

and pointing up to the unclouded sky, "she

went when Freddie was a tiny little baby."

18—2

Dead ? " whispered the man, as a spasm
passed over his face.

Yes, more than three years."

I beg your pardon. I am very stupid.
I am afraid I have caused you pain. Believe
me, I am extremely sorry."

No, no ; you must not say anything
more of that. But you will come ? "

It is strange," said he in a tone of profound
abstraction ; " it is strange that the
two little motherless boys should take such
a liking to one another, and that both
should come to this district — this place —
at about the same time."

He had forgotten the girl's presence.
Like most men who have lived long in solitude,
he had contracted the habit of talking
aloud to himself, and he was now unconscious
that he had a listener.

We may count on you ? "

He awoke with a start : he did not know

exactly to what the question referred. He
was aware that he had been keeping the
girl waiting for an answer, and that she
had asked him for a favour in return for
the loan of a companion for his boy. He
blurted out " Certainly," and was back on
the Ait once more before he realised the
nature of the promise he had made.

^^

THE FIRE AT RICHMOND.

A MORE devoted husband was not in all
Eichmond than William Crawford. A more
trusting and affectionate wife could not be
found in all England than Ellen, his wife,
whom in tones of great tenderness he
always called Nellie. To her first husband,
old Thomas Crawford, whom she had
married in the zenith of her maiden beauty
twenty-five years ago, when she was twenty-two,
she had ever been Ellen. Her name
in his mouth had always seemed cold and
stately ; at home she had always been
Nellie. But the dignity of marriage, and
of marriage with a man forty years older
than herself, had elevated her into Mrs.

Crawford among outsiders and Ellen
among her own relatives and in her own
house.

Her husband, father and mother, and
only brother had been dead some time
before her present husband came to live
next door to her at Singleton Terrace, Richmond.
She was a confirmed invalid, and
had been unable to move about freely for
four years. She had always been the
gentlest of the good, and rested quite resigned
to her fate. She never repined,
never grumbled, never murmured. Except
while in the throes of pain, her face wore a
placid look, which changed into a smile when
any one spoke to her or came near her.

Her doctors had told lier all along that
her case was not beyond hope. They spoke
of it generally as loss of nerve-power. In
hundreds of such affections there had been
complete cures, and in thousands partial

and important improvements. They traced
her condition to a carriage accident, in
which the horses ran away, and she had
been heavily thrown, shortly after her
marriage. The injury then received lay
dormant until developed by the sudden
and horrible death of her husband.

He was past eighty at the time, but hale
and hearty. He ate a good breakfast on
the day of his death, and had gone out to
look at some new machinery a friend of his
had got in a sawmill.

An hour after leaving his own door he
was carried back over the threshold, a
palpitating, bleeding mass, torn and ground
and mangled out of all human shape. His
coat had caught in the machinery, and he
had been drawn in among the ruthless
wheels and killed. His wife happened to
be looking out of the dining-room window
as the bearers came along the road and up

the front garden. Owing to brutal thoughtlessness,
no one had been sent on to break
the awful news to her. She rushed into
the hall as the four men bearing the
stretcher entered.

They lead placed a cloak over the body.
She knew by the face being covered that
all was over.

Is he dead ? " she shrieked, and raised
the cloak before any one could stay her.
She saw the mangled horror which an liouf
ago had been sound and hearty and —
whole.

Without a sound she sank to the floor ina
swoon. When she recovered consciousness
she could not stand without aid. The
strength of her lower limbs was gone.
A double blow had fallen on that house,
.and although people expressed and felt
sorrow for the old man, and horror at his
.sudden and terrible death, all the tears

were for the lovely soft-mannered wife, who
seemed to think less of herself than another
woman of her own shadow.

After the awful death of her husband
followed years of lonely widowhood, in
which she was as helpless to get about as a
little child. Then came this suave and low-voiced
man to lodge next door. He made
no advances to her whatever. To do anything
of the kind would have been revolting.
It would have been plain to the most
credulous that he sought her money, and
not herself. He was not even a friend.
He did not affect to be on terms of intimacy
with her. He comported himself as an
acquaintance who had great interest in her
and sympathised much with her in the
unhappy condition of her health.

Later occurred the fire and the rescue.
The cause of the fire had never been ascertained.
It arose in the kitchen under Mrs.

Crawford's room, and in the back of
the house. Because of her malady, the
widow occupied a room on the first floor,
the kitchen being a sunken storey.

At that time Mrs. Crawford had a companion
— a widow also — dio usually slept
in the same room with the invalid, but who
on the night of the fire was absent from
the house. The companion went for a day
and a night every month to visit her
brother at Eochester. All the other
nights the lady companion had been away
the cook passed in her mistress's room.
But at this time a change of the two servants,
cook and housemaid, had just taken
place, and both being strangers, Mrs. Crawford
decided to have neither in her room
that night ; she resolved to sleep alone.
Mrs. Farraday on her way to the station
had met the next-door lodger and told him
these facts, expressing a sincere hope that

Mrs. Crawford would pass a comfortable
night, and adding that though the poor
lady often found a great difficulty in going
to sleep, once she went off she never woke
till morning, and required no help in the
night, but had some one in her room
merely for companionship.

All this Mrs. Farraday told the sympathetic
next-door lodger, who joined with
her in the expression of a hope — nay, a
conviction — that the invalid would pass a
peaceful and untroubled night.

The sympathetic lodger next door was
not, of course, then called William
Crawford. He took that name when some
-months later he married the widow. He
was not known by the name of John
Ainsworth either. For a very simple and
sufficient reason he wished to forget John
Ainsworth. Philip Eay had sworn never
to forget John Ainsworth, and had, moreover,

sworn to shoot John Ainsworth if
ever they met.

John Ainsworth had as many names asa
royal prince. He cared very little for
names. He cared a great deal for pretty
faces just for a while ; or, rather, he cared
for pretty faces always, but liked change.
Better even than pretty faces, he cared for
money. The older he grew the more
enamoured he became of money. When a
man of spirit cares greatly for pretty faces',
and still more greatly for money, what
matters how people may call him so long
as he may gaze on beauty and rattle
guineas in his pocket ? One of the most
useful qualities of a pretty face is that you
can turn your back upon it when you are
tired of it. One of the most delightful
qualities of money is that you can, if you
only know where to seek, always find men
willing to gamble with you.

When John Ainsworth left Beecliley suddenly
and not alone three years ago he
and the companions of his flight changed
trains at Fordham. At the same time he
altered his name. He became of his own
free action, unchallenged by any one, Mr.
George Hemphill. When he left the train
and went on board the steamer for New
York he described himself and his party
as Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Plunkett and child.
When he took steamer back to England he
travelled alone as Mr. Walter Freestone.

Mrs. Crawford's sympathetic next-door
lodger was known to her and to Eichmond
as Mr. William Goddard.

In Mrs. Crawford's house the only servants,
the cook and housemaid, slept ina
front top room.

At about four o'clock in the morning,
after Mrs. Farraday's departure for Rochester,
Mrs. Crawford was awakened by an

awful sense of suffocation. The room was
full of smoke. She could see this by the
night light. She called out as loudly as
she was able, but there were two doors,
three floors, and three pair of stairs between
her and the maids. She rang the
little handbill placed at the side of her
bed by Mrs. Farraday before setting out
for the train. The voice was very thin
and weak, and the bell no better than a
toy. The voice could be heard no further
off than the next room and hall. The
sound of the bell might reach the kitchen
and the drawing-room overhead, no farther.
The smoke in the room increased. It
had a thick, oppressive, oily taste and
smell, something like the smell of paraffin.
Mrs. Crawford was not aware of any paraffin
being in the house. She had a
horror of paraffin, and none could be in
the house with her approval.

She lay in her bed perfectly helpless.
It was awful to lie here awaiting the approach
of death, seeing the great clouds
of smoke rise thicker and thicker every
minute, and know that soon insensibility
would fall upon her, and then death.

If she could but get to the window and
fling herself out, she might be maimed for
the remainder of her days, still she would
be almost certain to escape with life. But
she could not move from that bed to save
her life. Her arms were as strong and
capable as ever ; but her lower limbs were
as much beyond her control as the limbs
of the dead.

She had often pictured to herself the
horrors of being buried alive. She had
often fancied to herself the soul-distracting
awakening in the tomb, the confined space,
the damp neckcloths, the cold planks, the
stifling air, the maddening certainty that

above were space and sunshine and warmth,
the songs of birds and the voices of kindly
people going blithely to and fro.

Her own situation was as bad, nay
worse. In the tomb there would be no
light to show the sombre robes of death
gradually closing down upon her. There
would be no danger of the fierce fiery
agony of flame before all was over. There
would be from the first no hope of deliverance.


Here she was helpless, and could see the
smoke growing denser and denser every
moment, the weight upon her chest increasing
with every tumultuous inspiration.
Around her head, across her brow, a band
of burning hot metal seemed gradually
tightening and bursting in upon her brain.

She could hear the sound of the flames

flapping and beating in muffled distant riot

below, and yet she could not move.
VOL. n. 19

She lead read once of a man buried upto
the head in the sand of the seashore for
scurvy, powerless to stir, and so left by
his companions while they went away for
an hour. Towards this miserable man presently
glides a serpent out of some sedges
above high-water mark. That situation
had filled her mind with ineffable horror.
Her case now was still more terrible, for
there was no companion who might chance
to return in time. Besides, until the last
moment the man in the sand might hope
the serpent would not strike, that the
reptile was not hungry. Here the fire
would strike infallibly ; flames were always
hungry, voracious, insatiable.

The oppression grew more suffocating.
She was lying on her back, and she felt
as though an intolerable mass of lead were
crushing in her chest. The band across
her forehead tightened, and she could not

persuade herself that the bone of her skull
had not been driven in upon her beating
brain. Her hands seemed as though they
were swollen to ten times their size. She
could no longer move her arms with ease.

At length she felt as if the inexorable
hand of death had seized her throat
and was squeezing and closing up her
windpipe.

She kept her eyes fixed on the light.
This was the only thing that told of life.
She could see nothing else.

It was not a light now, but a blue blur
upon the darkness. It faded to a patch
of faintly luminous smoke. She closed
her eyes for a moment to clear her sight.
The motion of the lids pained her exquisitely,
and made the redit band across
her beating forehead burn more fiercely,
more crushingly than ever into her brain.

With a groan she opened her eyes.

19—2

All was dark ! The light had gone out,
extinguished by the smoke.

She knew that where lights went out
life soon followed. This light had illumined
dimly the way to the tomb. This
bed was her grave.

She summoned all her courage, and
drew a long breath. She summoned all
her strength, and uttered one cry :

Help ! "

There was a loud crash, a sound of
breaking glass, a rush of fresh cool air.
She fainted.

When she recovered consciousness she
was out of the burning house, in lier own
garden, and standing by her was William
Goddard, who had rescued her from the
burning house.

That was the beginning of close acquaintance
between the man and the widow.
She regarded him as one who had delivered

her from death, and all Eichmond and all
the world who read an account of the
fire looked upon him in the same way.
There was no doubt in the mind of anyone
that had not this William Goddard
crept along the ledge running round both
houses and taken the helpless woman out
of the burning house that night, she would
never have seen the dawn of another day.

Before the fire had time to spread beyond
the kitchen and Mrs. Crawford's
room, help had arrived, and the maids
were roused and taken to a place of safety.

When Mrs. Farraday came back she
received nearly as great a shock as if she
too had been in that threatened room the
night before. She loved the gentle, kindly
Mrs. Crawford as she loved no other living
woman. Her first impulse was to fall on
her knees and give thanks that her life
had been spared. She kissed and embraced

the invalid, and vowed that not to see all
the relatives in the world would she ever
leave her dear friend alone again.

"Every one is too good to me," said
Mrs. Crawford, kissing the other woman,
with tears in her eyes ; " and, for all we
know to the contrary, the terror of last
night may have been designed by Heaven
for my good only."

Your good only ! How could such an
awful fright and such awful suffering have
been only for your good? You are not
one who needs to be made pious by terror.
You are a saint ! "

Hush ! Do not say such a foolish thing,
Mrs. Farraday. I am nothing of the kind.
I am only weak clay. But I was not
speaking of spiritual benefits, but of
bodily."

Bodily benefits ! Why, I wonder you
did not die. If I had gone through what

you suffered last night I do believe I
should lose the use of my reason."

And, owing to the fright I got last
night I have recovered the use of my
limbs. Look ! "

And she rose and walked across the room.

Merciful Heavens ! " cried the other.
"This is indeed a miracle I"

The house in which the fire had occurred
was Mrs. Crawford's own property,
so she did not leave it, but had the requisite
repairs done while continuing to occupy
it. The widow now no longer required
a room on the first floor. She was able
to go up and down stairs. She could not
walk so fast or so far as before the day
her husband was carried in dead, but for
all the purposes of her household she
was as efficient as ever. The very fact
that she was obliged to walk more slowly
than other women added a new gentleness.

a new charm to her graciousness. Her
gratitude for deliverance from the fire
and the thraldom of her wearying disease
added a fresh softness to her smile and
manner. It seemed as though youth had
been restored to her. The whole world
was beautiful to her, because it had been
given back to her after she had made up
her mind she should see it no more. All
the people she met were her friends ; for
had not one of them snatched her from
death, and restored her to the holy brotherhood
of mankind ?

And what more natural than that among
all the brotherhood of mankind she should
look with most favour and gratitude on
the man who had risked his life for hers,
and restored her again to intimacies with
the sunshine and the birds and the flowers ?

That surely was enough for one man todo
for any mortal.

But this man had done more for her.
He had performed a miracle, wrought a
charm. Doctors might say it was the shock
which had cured her. All she knew was
that when she lay there in the throes of
death she had been helpless, that she had
been helpless for years ; that he came and
snatched her from the choking deadly
vapour, and that when she awoke to consciousness
she was healed.

She had no more thought of love or
marriage then than she had of wearing the
Queen of England's crown.

But William Goddard had thoughts of
marriage, and although he fancied he
managed very skilfully to hide his designs,
they were plain enough to Mrs. Farraday
long before he did more than offer what
might pass for considerate courtesies to
Mrs. Crawford.

It was not without pain that Mrs. Crawford

found she had no longer any need of
Mrs. Farraday. But the pain was more
than compensated for by the invigorating
knowledge that she who had been a helpless
invalid was now able to look after her
own house. It is doubtful if she would ever
have been able to suggest the idea of her
companion's leaving. But the other woman
began by seeing that she was not wanted,
and ended by feeling that she was in the
way. Accordingly, she anticipated what she
perceived to be inevitable, and dismissed
herself. She was sincerely attached to the
amiable woman with whom she had lived
so long, and whom no one could know well
without loving dearly. But she felt it
would be an injustice for her to tarry
longer ; and besides, she had duties of
her own to look after in Eochester, for her
brother living there had j must lost his wife,
and had asked her to come to him and

keep house for him and look after his little
children.

If ever you have any need of me, you
know where to send ; and although I
suppose I must consider myself as belonging
to my brother, I will come to you for
all the time I can. I hope and trust and
pray that your health may never make you
want any one in the house such as I have
been. Who knows but you may soon find
a more suitable companion than I could*
ever make."

The other blushed like a girl, and said :

You are very, very kind, and you must
come to see me often. Eochester is not sofar
away."

No, not so far. I will come, you maybe
sure."

They embraced and kissed and wept ;
and so these two good women parted with
mutual love and respect.

By this time William .Goddard's attentions
had become unmistakable. Mrs.
Crawford could not deny that something
was going on between her and her hero,
her rescuer, the quiet-mannered, low-voiced,
kind-hearted man who lived next door.

Mrs. Crawford was as simple as a child.
She had not married her first husband for
love. She married him because he had
asked her and had treated her with respectful
admiration and with a kind of rough
gallantry, and, above all, because her father
had told her that if she did marry Thomas
Crawford it would relieve him of dire
distress and put him on the high road to
fortune. But, alas ! for him, although he
was somewhat relieved by Crawford on his
marriage with Ellen, he never touched
fortune. There was nothing like buying
the girl on Crawford's side or compulsion
on the father's. The i?irl was heart-whole

and fancy free, and would have laid down
her life for her father.

She had never, in the romantic sense of
the phrase, loved her husband ; but from
the day she was married until he died he
was the first of all men in her consideration
and esteem. She did her duty by him to
the utmost of her power without having
any irksome feeling of duty. He was a
good, kind, indulgent husband — a man
who, although hard in business, was amiable
and good-natured at home, and who
had aroused her enthusiastic gratitude,
not by what he gave her, but by the
services he had willingly rendered her
father.

We read little of such lives in books.
No doubt the beauty and sacredness that
inhabit them make writers loth to invade
their holy peace.

HOW WILLIAM GODDARD CHANGED HIS NAME.

This gentle woman, who had. long since left
youth behind her, was experiencing for the
first time the influence of romantic love.
She was in her forty-seventh year, a widow
who had been a faithful and devoted wife,
and yet her heart was the heart of a girl.
The age of passion was passed. The fact
that up to the time of her marriage she had
had no sweetheart, had never once found
her heart dwelling on any young man of
her acquaintance, may prove that she was
never capable of the passion of love.
There was at present no passion in her
soul. But the overpowering and self-annihilating
sentiment of love filled herr



now, and for the first time in her life she
felt that she lived.

With her, as in all true love worthy of
the name, she wished to get nothing ; the
desire, the insatiable desire, to give was
paramount, with no rival feeling near its
throne. There was no coquetry of concealment
in her words or manner. When this
man asked her to be his wife she took him
tenderly by the hand and placed before
him all the reasons why she was not
worthy of him.

She was, she told him, older than he by
many years. She was a widow. She had
suffered long ill-health, was not now quite
recovered, and had been cautioned by the
doctors that her extraordinary respite from
helplessness might be ended any moment.
She could never hope to be an active
woman again. She could not go about
with him as his wife should. He was a

young man. A man of five-and-tbirty was
young enough to marry a girl thirty years
younger than she was. He had told her
he had found a wonderful plant in South
America, a plant which would yield a
fibre of inestimable value, a fibre that
one day might be expected to supersede
cotton and wool. He had told her
that as soon as he had secured his patent
and got up a company he should be one of
the richest men in England, in the world.
Why should he, whose star was rising, link
himself to her, whose star was sinking fast,
who could not hope to live very long, and
who must not expect that even the short
span allowed to her would be unbroken by
a return of infirmity and helplessness ? If
he wanted money to carry out his great
scheme, if he wanted not to share the
harvest of his discovery with strangers, she
was not without means, and every pence

lie could command was most heartily and
humbly at his service.

He listened to her without any show of
impatience, without a single interruption.
When she had done he went on as though
she had said nothing.

I have everything on earth I want but
one, and that one is more important to my
happiness than all the rest put together.
I want you for my wife. Will you marry
me, Nellie ? "

She smiled, and gazed at him out of e^^es

that told him he was unspeakably dear to

her. " If you will have me you may,"

she said, and smiled again. Her husband

had never in all their joint lives called her

anything but Ellen. It touched her tender

and confiding heart to be, as it were,

drawn by that dear and familiar form of

her name into the heart and nature of

this man.

VOL. II. 20

50 AN ISLE OF SURREY.

"I must and will," he said, and kissed
her.

"If sou care for me," she said, taking
one of his hands in both her own, " I am
yours to take by reason of my love for
you, and by reason of jour having restored
my life when I had given it up. When
I gave it up it was no longer mine. It
became yours when you gave it back tome.
What is left of it is yours, and everything
else I have. Even my very name
must be yours if you claim me."

I do claim you, and no power on earth
shall take you from me."

Or you from me ? "

Or me from you, I swear."

He kissed her again. That was the betrothal.


There was nothing violent in the scene.
Except for the two kisses and the beautiful
light in the eyes of the woman and the

clasping hands, any one seeing it and hearing'
notliinoj would have had no reason to
suspect that it was a love scene. He was
calm, firm, persistent, grave. He did not
smile once. He indulged in no heroics,
no extravagances, no transports. She admired
him all the more for this. Anything
of the kind would have been out of place,
shocking. She was no young girl, to be
won by rhapsodies or carried away by
transports. She knew that although her
youth had left her all her good looks
were not yet gone. But he never said a
word about her beauty. He was too sensible,
and too noble, and too chivalrous,
she told herself, to think she, a woman
of forty-seven and in weak health, could
be pleased by flippant flattery.

They sat hand in hand for a while, she
in a dream of contented happiness. To

her this was not the aftermath of love

20—2

AN ISLE OF SURREY.

gathered off an autumn land ; it was the
first growth, which had never come above
the soil until now, because no sun had
shone on the field before.

There came no let or hindrance in the
course of William Goddard's wooing. He
had been only a few months in Eichmond,
but during that time his conduct there
had been above reproach. At first, it is
true, he had not been a regular attendant
at church on Sundays He had gone now
and then, but not every Sabbath. From
the beginning of his love-making he never
missed the forenoon, and often attended
the evening, services. He kept much to
himself, and made no friends. He was a
strict teetotaller, and frequented no such
profitless places as clubs or billiard-rooms.
When people heard of the engagement between
Mrs. Crawford and William Goddard
they said she was a lucky woman, and

that her second husband would be even
better, if such a thing were possible, than
her first. If there had been in the whole
town a rumour to his disadvantage it
would have swelled into a howl, for
those who knew the gentle widow felt a
personal interest in her, a love for her,
as though she had been a mother or
sister.

When Mrs. Farraday went finally to
take the head of her brother's (Edward
Chatterton's) house at Eochester she naturally
told him all the news of Eichmond,
of the fire, the rescue, the love-making,
the engagement or understanding between
the widow and the heroic next-door lodger.
She told him everything she knew, and
minutely described the two people and
the two houses.

Her brother seemed interested. He was
a florid, well-conditioned, good-humoured,

shrewd man of fifty, not averse from
gossip in the evening when he sat in front
of his own fire, with his legs stretched
out before him, smoking his pipe.

"What is known of this man? You
say he has been only a few months in
Richmond?"

That is all. I believe he has spent
most of his life in South America. Fora
while he was in a gold mine, and he
was for a while a farmer, I think."

"And what brought him back to England?
South America is a fine place —
that is, parts of it — if you are any good
and have an opening. What did he come
back to England for? Has he made his
fortune?"

I don't think he has made his fortune.
He is not an old man, not even middle-aged.
He is almost young — not more
than thirty-five or so."

Then why did he come back, and what
is he losing months of his time in England
for — at his time of life, too, when he ought
to be working his hardest ? "

I don't know exactly. I think he has
found some plant in the llanos out of which
he can make cloth, and has come over
about starting a company and taking out
a patent. He says the plant is more
valuable than flax or wool or cotton."

"Or all together?" ♦

"Yes, I think he said that, but I am
not sure. I haven't a good memory for
this sort of thing."

"Kitty?"

"Well?"

"I have a fixed idea that every man
who wants to take out a patent and
start a company, and is months about
the job, is either a born idiot or a consummate
rogue. I have a very poor

opinion of this Mr. Crawford Number
Two."

Good gracious, John ! aren't you very
hard on a man you never saw ? "

He nodded his head gravely at the fire,
but took no other notice of her question.
He puffed at his pipe a minute in silence,
blowing the smoke straight out in front
of him, as if in pursuit of some design.
Then he took his pipe out of his mouth
with one hand, waved away the banks of
smoke lying before him with the other,
and turning round to her, said :

"And, Kitty, I should not be at all
surprised to find that he set fire to the
house and then rescued the fool of a
woman for reasons best known to himself."

Mrs. Farraday started to her feet aghast.

Do you know, John, that you are
saying the most awful things a man could
say ? You horrify me ! "

^'I mean," he went on, looking once
more lazily into the fire, " that I think
he set fire to the house and rescued the
woman in order that he might have a
claim upon her, and that he doesn't care

a for her, and that all he wants, or

ever thought of, is her money."

John, you do not know the man, and
it is shameful of you to say such things,
and you could be put in prison for saying
them ; and then to think of your calling
the dearest creature alive ' that fool of
a woman ' is worse than any libel you
could speak or think of ! "

The tears were in Mrs. Farraday's
eyes, and she coidd hardly command her
voice.

"Think over the matter. He knows
this fool of a woman is a helpless invalid.
He knows from you that you are coming
here. He learns from you that there are

two strange servants who sleep in the top
of the house ; and on the very night you
are away, and the first night for years this
elderly woman is sleeping alone, the house
next door to which he lives takes fire;
the kitchen over which she sleeps takes
fire, and there is a great smell of paraffin
oil in the place, although no one knew of
any being in the house. And lo .and
behold you ! when the woman is just dead,
he comes, bursts in her window, and
rescues her, and makes love to this well-off
invalid woman — he who has come back
to England at the age of thirty-five, without
a fortune, and with a cock-and-bull story
about a patent and a fibre."

Good-night. I will listen to no more
such awful talk."

Good-night, Kitty ; yet, take my word
for it, he set fire to that house."

But then, as Mrs. Farraday had remarked,

her brother did not know the
man ; nor, moreover, did he live at
Eichmond.

No one suggested that there was any
reason for delaying the marriage between
Goddard and the widow. He had not yet
secured his patent, and therefore could
not start his company. Now and then he
had to go up to London for a day or
two to see the artificers who were carrying
out his designs for the machines tone
employed in converting his plant into
cloth. When he returned to Singleton
Terrace after these brief absences, he made
up for lost time by increased tenderness
and devotion.

He never came back empty-handed, and
he never brought any splendid present ;
always a book, or a bouquet, or a basket
of fruit — nothing more. He had bought
her a ring, of course ; but even that

was inexpensive and simple — three
small diamonds in a plain gold band.

I shall be poor, Nellie, until I am
ricci ; and I shall not be rich in money
until my patent and my company are all
right."

"But when you get your patent and
your company, you will not want to go
away again to America?" she asked
anxiously. "I do not think I could face
so long a voyage."

"0, no ! There will be no need for me
to go out again. I have all arranged over
there. I have an intelligent and energetic
agent there. I will remain at home
attending to the interests of the company
(of which I shall, of course, be chairman),
and hunting up markets for my fibre.
We shall very likely have to leave this
place and live in town, take a good house
in Bays water or Kensington, for we ninus!:

do a little entertaining. You would not
mind changing Richmond for Bayswater
or Kensington ? "

Nothing could please me better than
to be of any use I can to you ; and if
my health keeps good, as good as it is
now, I could manage the entertaining very
well indeed."

'^ You grow stronger every day. I have
not a particle of fear on the score of
your health. I dare not have any fears
that, Nellie. You must not even refer
to such a thing again. When we have
taken that new place I lay you a bunch
of roses you wall dance at our housewarming,
ay, out-dance all the young
girls in the place."

She sighed, and took one of his hands
in both hers and smiled. She had never
dreamed of a lover, but if she had dreamed
of one in her latter years he surely would

be such a one as this. How sensible
and considerate and affectionate he was !
If he had been more ardent, more
enthusiastic, she might fear his displays
were insincere, that although he loved her
then, he would tire of her soon after they
were married, and, she being so much older
than he, take his ardours and transports to
the feet of younger and more beautiful
goddesses.

But with such as he there could be no
such fear. Raptures might please a girl,
and be excused in a young man towards a
girl, but from any man to her they would
be absurd and repulsive. It would be
impossible to believe them sincere, and
the mere idea that a lover's words and
actions were not the outcome of candid
feeling would be shocking, destructive of
all sympathy and self-respect.

But William, her William, as she now

called him, was perfect in all lie said and
all he did ; and of one thing she felt quite
sure : that if ever a cloud came between
them in their married life, it would arise
from some defect in her nature, not in
liis^

When old Crawford made his will a
couple of years before his death he did not
wish to place any restraint upon her as to
marriage after he had gone, except that she
was to keep his name. He had made all .
his money himself ; he had worked hard for
it, allowing himself no luxuries and little
comfort for the best part of life, and deferring
marriage until he was well on in years
and had given up active business. He had
no child, no relative he knew of in the world.
He would have welcomed a son with joy.
Nothing would have pleased him more than
to think that the name which he had raised
up out of poverty into modest affluence

would survive and flourish when he was no
more.

But a son was denied to him. All hope of
an heir was o-one. He loved his wife in his
own way, and he would not fetter her future
with an imposed lifelong widowhood. She
was to be left free to wed again if her
choice lay that way. She had been a true
and tender wife to him, the one source of
peaceful happiness in his old age. She
should not feel the dead hand of a niggard ;
she should have all his money, but she
should keep his name. His name should
not die out wholly even when she ceased to
be. He should leave her all the income
from his property for her life, or as long as
she retained the name he had given her. If
she changed that name the name should
not die. His money should go to Guy's
Hospital, and be known, while that great
handmaiden of the sick poor survived, as

she could command was most heartily and
humbly at his service.

He listened to her without any show of
impatience, without a single interruption.
When she had done he went on as though
she had said nothing.

I have everything on earth I want but
one, and that one is more important to my
happiness than all the rest put together.
I want you for my wife. Will you marry
me, Nellie ? "

She smiled, and gazed at him out of eyes

that told him he was unspeakably dear to

her. "If you will have me you may,"

she said, and smiled again. Her husband

had never in all their joint lives called her

anything but Ellen. It touched her tender

and confiding heart to be, as it were,

drawn by that dear and familiar form of

her name into the heart and nature of

this man.

VOL. II. 20

"I must and will," he said, and kissed
her.

"If 3'ou care for me," she said, taking
one of his hands in both her own, " I am
yours to take by reason of my love for
you, and by reason of your having restored
ray life when I had given it up. When
I ofave it up it was no loser mine. It
became yours when you gave it back tome.
What is left of it is yours, and everything
else I have. Even my very name
must be yours if you claim me."

I do claim you, and no power on earth
shall take you from me."
Or you from me ? "
Or me from you, I swear."
He kissed her again. That was the betrothal.


There was nothing violent in the scene.
Except for the two kisses and the beautiful
light in the eyes of the woman and the

clasping hands, any one seeing it and hearing
nothing would have had no reason to
suspect that it was a love scene. He was
calm, firm, persistent, grave. He did not
smile once. He indulged in no heroics,
no extravagances, no transports. She admired
him all the more for this. Anything
of the kind would have been out of place,
shocking. She was no young girl, to be
won by rhapsodies or carried away by
transports. She knew that although her.
youth had left her all her good looks
were not yet gone. But he never said a
word about her beauty. He was too sensible,
and too noble, and too chivalrous,
she told herself, to think she, a woman
of forty-seven and in weak health, could
be pleased by flippant flattery.

They sat hand in hand for a while, she
in a dream of contented happiness. To

her this was not the aftermath of love

20—2

gathered off an autumn land ; it was the
first growth, which had never come above
the soil until now, because no sun had
shone on the field before.

There came no let or hindrance in the
course of William Goddard's wooing. He
had been only a few months in Eichmond,
but during that time his conduct there
had been above reproach. At first, it is
true, he had not been a regular attendant
at church on Sunday. He had gone now
and then, but not every Sabbath. From
the beginning of his love-making he never
missed the forenoon, and often attended
the evening, services. He kept much to
himself, and made no friends. He was a
strict teetotaller, and frequented no such
profitless places as clubs or billiard-rooms.
When people heard of the engagement between
Mrs. Crawford and William Goddard
they said she was a lucky woman, and

that her second husband would be even
better, if such a thing were possible, than
her first. If there had been in the whole
town a rumour to his disadvantage it
would bave swelled into a howl, for
those who knew the gentle widow felt a
personal interest in her, a love for her,
as though she had been a mother or
sister.

When Mrs. Farraday went finally to
take the head of her brother's (Edward
Chatterton's) house at Eochester she naturally
told him all the news of Eichmond,
of the fire, the rescue, the love-making,
the engagement or understanding between
the widow and the heroic next-door lodger.
She told him everything she knew, and
minutely' described the two people and
the two houses.

Her brother seemed interested. He was
a florid, well-conditioned, good-humoured,

shrewd man of fifty, not averse from
gossip in the evening when he sat in front
of his own fire, with his legs stretched
out before him, smoking his pipe.

What is known of this man ? You
say he has been only a few months in
Eichmond ? "

That is all. I believe he has spent
most of his life in South America. Fora
while he was in a gold mine, and he
was for a while a farmer, I think."

"And what brought him back to England?
South America is a fine place —
that is, parts of it — if you are any good
and have an opening. What did he come
back to England for? Has he made his
fortune?"

"I don't think he has made his fortune.
He is not an old man, not even middle-aged.
He is almost young — not more
than thirty-five or so."

Then why did he come back, and what
is he losing months of his time in England
for — at his time of life, too, when he ought
to be working his hardest ? "

I don't know exactly. I think he has
found some plant in the llanos out of which
he can make cloth, and has come over
about starting a company and taking out
a patent. He says the plant is more
valuable than flax or wool or cotton."

"Or all together?"

"Yes, I think he said that, but I am
not sure. I haven't a good memory for
this sort of thing."

"Kitty?"

"Well?"

"I have a fixed idea that every man
who wants to take out a patent and
start a company, and is months about
the job, is either a born idiot or a consummate
rogue. I have a very poor

opinion of this Mr. Crawford Number
Two."

Good gracious, John ! aren't you very
hard on a man you never saw ? "

He nodded his head gravely at the fire,
but took no other notice of her question.
He puffed at his pipe a minute in silence,
blowing the smoke straight out in front
of him, as if in pursuit of some design.
Then he took his pipe out of his mouth
with one hand, waved away the banks of
smoke lying before him with the other,
and turning round to her, said :

"And, Kitty, I should not be at all
surprised to find that he set fire to the
house and then rescued the fool of a
woman for reasons best known to himself."

Mrs. Farraday started to her feet aghast.

Do you know, John, that you are
saying the most awful things a man could
say ? You horrify me ! "'

''I mean," he went on, looking once
more lazily into the fire, " that I think
he set fire to the house and rescued the
woman in order that he might have a
claim upon her, and that he doesn't care

a for her, and that all he wants, or

ever thought of, is her money."

John, you do not know the man, and
it is shameful of you to say such things,
and you could be put in prison for saying
them ; and then to think of your calling
the dearest creature alive ' that fool of
a woman' is worse than any libel you
could speak or think of! "

The tears were in Mrs. Faraday's
eyes, and she could hardly command her
voice.

*' Think over the matter. He knows
this fool of a woman is a helpless invalid.
He knows from you that you are coming
here. He learns from you that there are

two strange servants who sleep in the top
of the house ; and on the very night you
are away, and the first night for years this
elderly woman is sleeping alone, the house
next door to which he lives takes fire;
the kitchen over which she sleeps takes
fire, and there is a great smell of paraffin
oil in the place, although no one knew of
any being in the house. And lo and
behold you ! when the woman is just dead,
he comes, bursts in her window, and
rescues her, and makes love to this well-off
invalid woman — he who has come back
to England at the age of thirty-five, without
a fortune, and with a cock-and-bull story
about a patent and a fibre."

"Good-night. I will listen to no more
such awful talk."

Good-night, Kitty ; yet, take my word
for it, he set fire to that house."

But then, as Mrs. Farraday had remarked,

her brother did not know the
man ; nor, moreover, did he live at
Eichmond.

No one suggested that there was any
reason for delaying the marriage between
Goddard and the widow. He had not yet
secured his patent, and therefore could
not start his company. Now and then he
had to go up to London for a day or
two to see the artificers who were carrying
out his designs for the machines to
be employed in converting his plant into
cloth. When he returned to Singleton
Terrace after these brief absences, he made
up for lost time by increased tenderness
and devotion.

He never came back empty-handed, and
he never brought any splendid present ;
always a book, or a bouquet, or a basket
of fruit — nothings more. He had bought
her a ring, of course ; but even that

was inexpensive and simple — three
small diamonds in a plain gold band.

I shall be poor, Nellie, until I am
rich ; and I shall not be rich in money
until my patent and my company are all
right."

"But when you get your patent and
your company, you will not want to go
away again to America ? " she asked
anxiously. "I do not think I could face
so long a voyage."

"0, no ! There will be no need for me
to eo out ao^ain. I have all arranged over

Co o

there. I have an intelligent and energetic
agent there. I will remain at home
attending to the interests of the company
(of which I shall, of course, be chairman),
and hunting up markets for my fibre.
We shall very likely have to leave this
place and live in town, take a good house
in Bayswater or Kensington, for we must

do a little entertaining. You would not
mind changing Eichmond for Bayswater
or Kensington ? "

"Nothing could please me better than
to be of any use I can to you ; and if
my health keeps good, as good as it is
now, I could manage the entertaining very
well indeed."

'' You grow stronger every day. I have
not a particle of fear on the score of
your health. I dare not have any fear
of that, Nellie. You must not even refer'
to such a thing again. When we have
taken that new place I lay you a bunch
of roses you will dance at our housewarming,
ay, out-dance all the young
girls in the place."

She sighed, and took one of his hands
in both hers and smiled. She had never
dreamed of a lover, but if she had dreamed
of one in her latter years he surely would

be such a one as this. How sensible
and considerate and affectionate he was !
If he had been more ardent, more
enthusiastic, she might fear his displays
were insincere, that although he loved her
then, he would tire of her soon after they
were married, and, she being so much older
than he, take his ardours and transports to
the feet of younger and more beautiful
goddesses.

But with such as he there could be no
such fear. Raptures might please a girl,
and be excused in a young man towards a
girl, but from any man to her they would
be absurd and repulsive. It would be
impossible to believe them sincere, and
the mere idea that a lover's words and
actions were not the outcome of candid
feeling would be shocking, destructive of
all sympathy and self-respect.

But William, her William, as she now

called him, was perfect in all lie said and
all lie did ; and of one thing she felt quite
sure : that if ever a cloud came between
them in their married life, it would arise
from some defect in her nature, not in
his.

When old Crawford made his will a
couple of years before his death he did not
wish to place any restraint upon her as to
marriage after he had gone, except that she
was to keep his name. He had made all
his money himself ; he had worked hard for '
it, allowing himself no luxuries and little
comfort for the best part of life, and deferring
marriage until he was well on in years
and had given up active business. He had
no child, no relative he knew of in the world.
He would have welcomed a son with joy.
Nothing would have pleased him more than
to think that the name which he had raised
up out of poverty into modest affluence

would survive and flourish when lie was no
more.

But a son was denied to him. All hope of
an heir was gone. He loved his wife in his
own way, and he would not fetter her future
with an imposed lifelong widowhood. Sie
was to be left free to wed again if her
choice lay that way. She had been a true
and tender wife to him, the one source of
peaceful happiness in his old age. She
should not feel the dead hand of a niggard ;
she should have all his money, but she
should keep his name. His name should
not die out wholly even when she ceased to
be. He should leave her all the income
from his property for her life, or as long as
she retained the name he had given her. If
she changed that name the name should
not die. His money should go to Guy's
Hospital, and be known, while that great
handmaiden of the sick poor survived, as

Well, is the retort charged ? "

All this time the boy was working hard
at filling an imaginary scoop with coal, and
pouring the coal from it into imaginary retorts.
Frank was sitting on the edge of the
barrow watching him intently.

0, yes. They're all charged now."

Well, I must leave you for a little while.
You will be good boys when I am away.
Take care of yourselves."

0, yes ! "

And, Freddie, will you teach Frank to
be a good boy ? "

0, yes, I'll teach him that, too ! But I
must have a book."

Must have a book ? You don't mean
to say you know how to read?"

No, but the way to be a good boy is to

sit down on a chair at a table and look at

pictures in a book. I hate books. Frank,

it's Noah's ark now and we're the beasts."
VOL. II. 22

The man moved away, and entered the
cottage. He felt elated to an extraordinary
degree.

For more than two years he had been
dwelling alone with blighting memories.
Yesterday and to-day he was experiencing
sensations. Something was now entering
his life. Formerly everything had been
going out, going out from a life already
empty.

That day he had been confused and put outby
so simple a thing as that girl's invitation
to spend an hour in a house not a hundred
yards from his own. It was the first invitation
of the kind he had received since his
voluntary exile from the world. The world
had been dead to him. He had almost forgotten
there was such a state of existence
as that in which ordinary people live. All
his own experience seemed no more real
than the memory of a dream, out of which

the light and colour were fading slowly but
surely.

The invitation to Crawford's House had
for him made the fading half-forgotten
world spring out of its dim retirement into
light before his eyes. It suddenly forced
upon his mind the fact that there were
bright and happy people still moving about
in the streets and fields. She, for instance,
the girl who had spoken to him., was bright
and seemed happy ; very bright and very
happy, now that he recalled her face and
words and manner.

There were thousands in the world as
bright and happy as she. Thousands, nay,
millions.

Were there millions in the world as

bright and happy as she ? Hardly ; for she

was as bright a being as he had ever met in

his life. No doubt he thought this because

hers was the first sunny face of woman he

22—2

had seen for a long time. For a time, that
looking back now seemed immemorial : he
had been dwelling in the gloomy caverns
of Pluto ; the voice of his boy called him
forth from the hideous bowels of the earth,
and, lo ! no sooner did he emerge from
darkness than the first being he saw was
this Hebe.

But stay ! What was this she had said
to him ? He had been confused and dull-headed
at the time. She had confused him
by asking him to do her a favour. Of late he
had not been asked by any one to grant a
favour. He had lost all intercourse with
gracious ways.

0, yes ! he remembered now. She had
invited him to go over and spend an hour
with her brother. And what folly ! he had
promised. He must have been stupid when
he told her he would go. Why, if he
went, who would mind Frank ? The child

could not be left in the cottage by himself.


In due time, Mrs. Grainger, whose services
had been engaged for that day, called
for young Freddie. Bramwell bore the
boy along the stage and placed him gently
in that good woman's arms. While crossing
the bay he left Frank in the timber-yard ;
but when he came back he took his own son
in his arms and carried him into the cottage.

THE postman's HAIL.

What had formerly been the dwelling of
the foreman of Boland's Ait consisted of four
rooms, all on the ground floor. It stood at
the southern extremity of the islet, the end
windows looking south, in the direction of
CamberwelL There were three of these
windows ; one in what had been the
kitchen, now used by Bramwell as a sitting -
room, dining-room and study ; another in
what had been the sitting-room, now empty ;
and one in what had been and was a bedroom.
The present study and the room
now unfurnished ran right through the
cottage, were oblong, and comparatively
large. The room used as a bedroom was

small, being only half the depth of the
cottage and the same width as the study
and empty room, and only half the length.
The other half of the length was occupied
by what had been a bedroom, now used by
Bramwell as a kitchen.

There was no passage in the house.
The door from the study opened directly
upon an open space lying between the cottage
and the old sawmill. Out of the study
a door opened into the unfurnished room,
and from that one door opened into the
kitchen, another into the bedroom. Thus
the two larger rooms ran side by side from
north to south, and the two smaller, each
being half the size of one of the larger, lay
at the western end.

Up to this time Bramwell had spent nearly
all his waking hours in the study. Now
and then he went into the yard, and there,
concealed from observation, walked up and

down for exercise. Once in a month,
perhaps, he left the islet to buy something
he needed. Otherwise he lived in the study
from month's end to month's end, retiring
to the bedroom to rest, when sleep overcame
him, far in the night.

This was the last day of May. The sun
had risen in a cloudless sky, and shone out
of a heaven of blameless blue from dawn to
dusk.

When Bramwell entered the cottage with
his boy in his arms it was getting late in
the afternoon. The Layardss did not breakfast
early, and Hetty and the boy had
dinner at three o'clock. It was to assist at
that indispensable function that Freddie had
been recalled from the timber-yard. Cromwell
had not thought of dinner until Mrs.
Grainger had summoned Freddie to his.
Then the father was seized with sudden
panic at his own forgetfulness, and the

possible peril to this son's life. He knew
from books that young children should eat
more frequently than grown-up people ;
but whether a child of his son's age should
be fed every hour, or every two hours, or
every half-hour, or every four, he could not
decide. In the kitchen was an oil-stove
which he had taught himself to manage.
Mrs. Treleaven left everything ready for
dinner on a small tray. All he had to do
was to light his stove and wait half-an-hour,
and dinner would be ready for him and th
child. A tray stood on the kitchen table,
and on the tray all things necessary for the
meal, saving such as were awaiting the
genial offices of the stove.

Mrs. Treleaven never carried that tray to
the stud'. She had orders not to do so,
lest she might reduce the papers on the
table to irretrievable confusion.

There was the half-hour to wait, and

Bramwell, having ascertained by inquiry
that the boy was in no immediate danger
of death from hunger, cast about him to
hind something to do which would fill up
the time and interest Frank, who was hot
and tired after his harassing labours in
the yard.

It is fine to-day," he thought, " but it
will not be fine every day, all the year
round. On the wet days, and in the
winter, where are Frank and Freddie to
play ? In this room, of course ? " He went
into the empty one next his own. " Here
they will be under cover, and will not interfere
with my work. I can look in on them
now and then, and in case they want me I
shall be near at hand."

Frank," said he aloud to the child, " I
shall make this room into a play-room
for you."

What's a play-room ? " asked the boy.

He had had no experience of any kind of
life but that spent in poor lodgings.

Where you and little Freddie can play
if the weather is wet or cold."

And may we bring in our steamboat ? "
asked the boy anxiously.

We shall see about that. You would
like a ball to play with in this room and in
the yard?"

0, yes ! I have a ball at home."

Frank, my boy, this is your home.
You are to live here now. You are nt)t
going back."

But I want my ball, and I want
mother."

"You shall have a ball; but your
mother is gone away for ever."

"Will the ball be all red and blue?"
His own had been dull white, unrelieved
by colour.

"I think so," said the father gravely.

and grateful for the suggestion contained
in the boy's words. He had forgotten that
splendid balls such as are never used in
fives, or tennis, or cricket, or racket could
be got in the toy-shops.

The boy was satisfied.

Then Bramwell took a brush and began
sweeping the empty room with great vigour
and determination, chatting all the while to
the boy about the wonderful adventures
encountered by Frank and Freddie that
day in their many journeys by sea and
land.

By the time the room was swept the
dinner was ready, and Bramwell, who had
learned to wait upon himself, carried in the
tray, cleared away half the table of papers,
spread the folded-up cloth, and the two sat
down.

Moment by moment the father was
waking up to a sense of his new position.

He felt already a great change in the conditions
of his life. He was no longer free
to read and muse all day long, eating his
solitary meals when he pleased. He must
now adopt some sort of regularity in his
management. The hours of breakfast,
dinner, and tea should be fixed ; and it
would be advisable to tell Mrs. Treleaven
to bring all things necessary and advantageous
for children. Mrs. Treleaven had
a large family, and would know what was
proper to be done. ♦

When dinner was over, he gave Frank
the run of the house, carried the tray back
to the kitchen, and sat down in his chair to
think.

Yes, he should have to work now in
earnest. He would no longer dawdle away
his time in fancying he was preparing for
the beginning. He would begin at once.
He should add to his income by his pen.

When lie had more money than he needed
years ago, he had always told himself that
he would write a book — books. Now, perhaps,
he could hardly spare time for so
long an undertaking as a book. He should
write articles, essays, poems, perhaps ;
anything to which he could turn his
hand, and which would bring in money.

The change of name he had adopted
two years ago would be convenient.
He had then used it to obliterate his
identity ; he should now use it to establish
a new identity. He had no practical experience
of writing for magazines or newspapers,
but he believed many men made
good incomes by the pen of an occasional
contributor. Of course, he could take no
permanent appointment, even if one offered,
for it would separate him from his boy.

The afternoon glided into evening.
Philip Eay had been at the island every

night of late. He was coming again this

Between the news of Ainsworth and the
arrival of the boy he could not keep away.
He Alas strangely excited and wild. Philip
was the best fellow in the world, but very
excitable — much too excitable. No doubt
he would quiet down in time.

If it should chance Philip met a good,
quiet, sensible girl, it would be well for
him to marry. The sense of responsibility
would steady him. He was one of those
men to whom cares would be an advantage.
Not cares, of course, in the sense of
troubles. Heaven keep Philip from all
such miseries ! but it would do Philip good
to be obliged to share his confidences and
his thoughts with a prudent woman whom
he loved, and upon whose disinterested
solicitude for his welfare he could rely.

Yes ; it would be well for Philip, dear,

good, unselfish Philip, to marry, even if he
and his wife had to pinch and scrape on
his small income.

Some one was drawing the stage
across the canal. Here was Philip himself.


I was just thinking of sou, Philip,"
said Bramwell. " I want you to do something
for me."

The other looked at him in blank astonishment.
This was the first admission for
two years made by Bramwell that anything
could be done for him.

"What is it?"

He was almost afraid to speak lest he
should make the other draw back. He
would have done anything on earth for
Prank — anything on earth except forgive
John Ainsworth, otherwise William Goddard,
otherwise William Crawford.

The aliases of Mrs. Crawford's husband

were known to neither of these men. These
two aliases were unknown as aliases to anyone
in the world.

You need not be afraid. It is not anything
very dreadful or very difficult."

If it were impossible and infamous, I'd
do it for you, Frank."

Fortunately it is neither. To-day that
little boy came to play with Frank again,
and his aunt asked me to go over tonight
and chat for an hour with her
brother. In a moment of thoughtlessness
and confusion I promised to go. Of course
I can't, and I want you to walk round and
apologise, and explain matters to the aunt
and father of Freddie. You see, I would
not like to seem rude or inconsiderate. I
don't know what I should do if they withdrew
their leave from the coming over of
their boy."

But why won't you go ? " asked Philip
VOL. n. 23

eagerly. "It would do you all the good in
the world."

"My dear Philip, I am astonished at you.
Out of this place I have not gone into a
house for two years."

"So much the more reason why you
should go. I suppose you do not intend
living the same life now as during those
two years ? "

"No. I intend making a great change
in my manner of life. But I can't do it all
at once, you know."

But surely there is nothing so terrible
in spending an hour with a neighbour.
That would seem to me the very way of all
others in which you might break the ice
most easily. Do go."

"I can't, for two reasons."

"When a man says he has two reasons, one
of them is always insincere. He advances
it merely as a blind. The likelihood is that

both those he gives are insincere, and that
he keeps back the real one. What are
your two reasons for not going ?" Eay did
not say this in bitterness, but in supposed
joy. It delighted him beyond measure to
see how alert and bright Bramwell's mind
had become already after only a few days'
contact with the boy. In his inmost heart
he had come to believe that his brother-in-law's
emancipation from the Cimmerian
gloom in which lie had dwelt was at hand,
and would be complete. *

Which reason would you like to have :
my real or invented one? Or would you
like both, in order that you may select ? "
asked Bramwell, with a look of faint amusement.


"Both," said Eay.

In the first place, Frank can't be left

alone."

"I'll stay here and see that he is all right ;

23—2

SO that needn't keep you here. Number
two?"

Look at me ; am I in visiting trim ? and
I have no better coat."

"You don't mean to say that you care
what kind of a coat you wear. This is
grossly absurd — pure imposture. It does
not weigh the miUionth of a grain in my
mind. You care about your coat?"

"But they may. How can I tell that
they are not accustomed to the finest cloth
and the latest fashion ? "

And live in that ramshackle old house
down that blind alley ? 0, yes ! I am sure
they are fearfully stuck-up people. Does
the aunt take in washing or make up ladies'
own materials ? Ladies who look after
their brothers' children generally wear blue
spectacles or make up ladies' own materials,
when they live in a place like Crawford's
House."

Besides, Philip, I'd rather not leave the
child behind me. I feel I could not rest
there a moment. I should be certain something
had happened to him."

"What did I tell you a moment ago
about men with two reasons? You see I
was right. It wasn't because you won't
leave Frank alone, since my offer obviates
that, and it wasn't because you aren't
clothed in purple and fine linen. Your real
reason for not going is a woman's reason —
you won't go, because you won't go."

Well, let it stand at that, if you will'*

"But really, Frank, you must change all
this."

"I engage to reform, but you do not
expect a revolution. You will call and
apologise for me, Philip ? I can't go, and
I don't want to seem ungracious to them.
You need only say that when I promised to
see them this afternoon I completely forgot

that there would be no one here with the
boy. Of course, I could not have foreseen
your offer to stay with him."

Eay muttered and growled, but on the
whole was well satisfied. Bramwell had
not been at any time since he came to the
islet so lively as this evening. If he progressed
at this rate he would soon be as well
as ever — ay, better than ever.

He said he would take the message round
to Crawford's House.

As he was leaving the room Bramwell
said gravely :

"Don't be unkind to little Freddie's
aunt, even if she does make up ladies' own
materials and wear glasses. All people have
not their fate in their own hands."

Pooh ! " cried Eay scornfully, as he disappeared.


Bramwell got up and began pacing the
room. Of old he used to sit and brood over

the past, when he could no longer busy himself
with his papers and books. This evening
he walked up and down and thought of
the future.

Now that I recall the girl to my mind,
Miss Layard is very beautiful. I do wish
Philip would get married. That would get
all this murderous vengeance out of his
head. A single man may be willing to risk
his own neck to avenge a wrong ; but a man
with a wife whom he loved would think
twice before handing himself over to thee
hangman, and leaving the woman he loved
desolate.

"I do hope he will fall in love with this
girl. I know his present contempt for the
sex, and I know the source from which that
contempt springs. But all women are not
alike. I have known only my mother and
my sister and another, and out of the three,
two are the salt of the earth and the glory

of Heaven. A good woman is life's best gift,
and there are a thousand good women for
the one bad. It was my misfortune to —
But let me not think of that. '

I know Philip would scout the idea of
falling in love and marrying. Two facts
now keep him from any chance of love or
marriage. First, his revulsion from the
whole sex because of the fault of one ; and,
second, because he does not meet any young-girl
who might convert him to particular
exemption from his general scorn.

"And yet, although I have had little
opportunity of judging, for I saw this girl
only twice, perhaps she is not exactly the
kind of wife that would be best for him.
She is bright and gay, and beautiful enough,
in all conscience. What a brilliant picture
she made at that window ! I seem to see
her now more distinctly than I did at the
time. There is such a thins as the collodion

of the eye. And now that I think of the
day, of the time she brought down the little
fellow to the brink of the bay and handed
him to me, how charming she looked ! There
was such colour in her face and hair, and
such light in her eyes, and her voice is
so clear and sympathetic ! Ah, there are
many, many, many good women in the
world who are beautiful, supremely beautiful
also, and she, I am sure, is one of
them !

But I fancy the wife for Philip ought
to be more sedate. He is too excitable,
and this Miss Layard is bright and quick.
His excitement almost invariably takes a
gloomy turn ; hers, I should fancy, a gay
direction. They would be fire and tow to
one another. He ought to marry a woman
of calm and sober mind, and she a man of
sad and melancholy disposition like "

He did not finish the sentence, even

in his mind. He had almost said " like
me."

No, I don't think she would be the wife
for him. But there ! How calmly and
solemnly I am disposing of the fate of two
people ! I had better do that thing which
our race are so noted for doing well — mind
m}^ own business."

His meditations were broken in upon by
a voice hailing the island from the tow-path.


"Boland's Ait, ahoy!" sang the voice.

Bramwell rose and left the cottage by the
door from the study. Abroad it was growing
dark. " Philip has been gone a long time,"
he thought. "But this cannot be he, for
he knows how to come over."

In the dusk he saw a man on the opposite
side of the canal, with a canvas bag thrown
over his shoulder. The man wore a peaked
cap, and was in uniform.

A newspaper for you, Mr. Bramwell,"
sang out the man.

Bramwell, in great surprise, hastened to
the floating stage, and, seizing the chain,
pulled the stage athwart the water.

He took the newspaper from the postman's
hand. It was too dark to read the
superscription.

He hastened back to the study, where
the lamp was burning.

He examined the cover in the light of
the lamp. ♦

He could not recognise the writing. He
had never seen it before.

He broke the cover and spread the
paper out before him. It was a copy of the
Daily Telegraphy dated that day.

On the front page a place was marked.
It was in the column devoted to births,
marriages, and deaths. The mark was
against an item among the deaths.

With a shudder and a sick feeling of
sinking, he read :

On the 28th inst., at her residence,
London, Kate, wife of Francis Mellor (nee
Eay), late of Greenfield, near Beechley,
Sussex."

He raised his head slowly from the table,
threw himself into a chair, and burst into a
passion of tears and sobs.

-^-o

PRIVATE THEATRICALS.

While the owner of Boland's Ait was
weeping over the brief announcement of his
wife's death in the newspaper, the owner of
a house in Singleton Terrace, Eichmond,
was sitting in his wife's drawing-room ina
comfortable easy-chair, reading a novel.,
Mrs. Crawford, in her invalid's wheeled
chair, sat at the other side of the table,
languidly looking over a newspaper.

Mr. Crawford was a model of domestic
virtue. He spent most of his time in the
house, and the greater part of the hours he
was at home were passed in the society of
his wife. He did not drink, or smoke, or
swear, or indulge in any other vice — in

Eichmond. As to gambling, or anything
worse, the good people of the town would
as soon think of hearing the rector accused
of such practices. He went to church once
on Sunday regularly; but made not the
least claim to piety, not to say anything of
godliness. The few claims that charity or
religion had made upon his purse had been
responded to with alacrity and modest gifts ;
but the most censorious could not accuse
him of ostentation.

In fact there was a complete absence of
anything approaching ostentation in the
man. He seemed to care nothing for society,
except the society of his elderly ailing wife.
The conduct of the man was inexpressibly
meritorious. He afforded many estimable
matrons with an exemplar of what a good
husband ought to be.

He never goes out anywhere," they said.
He does not even want company at his

own house (though that is not only harmless,
but advantageous), for the society of the
woman he loves is enough for him. Of
course, he has to go up to town every now
and then to see the workmen who are preparing
his wonderful machine for making
cotton out of dock-leaves, or something of
that kind ; but, then, that is only for a day,
and when he returns does he come emptyhanded
? Not he ! He always thinks of his
wife even in the little while he is away, and
brings her some pretty present to show his •
love. Ah, if every husband were only like
liimr'

Of course, an inventor who is taking out
a patent and getting models of machinery
made must often see the artificers employed,
and before, as well as after, his marriage,
Crawford ran up to London for one day in
the week ; that is, he went up on the evening
of one day, and returned in the morning of

the next. Indeed, it was not, when put
together, quite a whole day of four-and-twenty
hours ; for he did not leave until late
in the afternoon, and was back next morning.
Now, an inventor is known to be a dreadful
bore, for he is always trying to explain
how the machine works, and no woman that
ever lived could take a particle of interest
in machinery, or even understand how one
cogwheel moves another, or how a leather
band can make an iron wheel revolve.
Crawford did not make his house odious
with plans of his models and disquisitions
on his plans. If you asked him a question
he answered it in the most explicit and
kindest manner possible, and said no more
about the thing, but told you that the
moment it was in working order you should
come and see his model at work. The kindness
of the man's manner almost made
people think they understood him.

On the table between the husband and
wife lay a lot of papers, but they had nothing
to do with the great invention. They related
to the Crawford property in the neighbourhood
of the South London Canal.
Some of them were in Mr. Blore's handwriting,
some of them in Crawford's. Mrs.
Crawford had, at her husband's request,
been looking over them before taking up
the newspaper. She had glanced at the
sheets, and when her brief inspection was
finished put them down, and, seeing him
deeply absorbed in his book, said nothing,
but took up the newspaper to look at it so
that he might not think she had been waiting
for him.

At last his chapter was finished. He put
away his book and glanced across the
table. " Well, Nellie, isn't it very extraordinary
these people were so backward in

paying'*

VOL. n. 24

'' It is a little strange," she said with a
gentle smile; "but you must not be disheartened
by it. They are sure to pay next
month." She took up the list of the tenants
and ran her eyes over it, that he might not
fancy she under-estimated his efforts and
anxiety respecting the rents.

"I'll tell you what I think, Nellie. I
fancy that, although we issued the circular
about my collecting instead of Blore, and
although I had full credentials with me,
they did not believe they would be quite
safe in paying me."

But they knew you were my husband,"
she said softly, " did they not ? Was not
that enough for them? It is more than
enough for me." There were infinite confidence
and tenderness in her voice and
look.

Of course, dear. But they could not be
certain of my identity. How were they to

be sure the man who called on them was
the William Crawford of the notice. The
man who called upon them might be an
impostor, who obtained the credentials by
fraud. Don't you see?"

0, yes. That's it. Quite plainly they
were afraid to pay you, lest there might be
something wrong about you. Fancy something
wrong about you, William ! " and she
leaned back in her chair and laughed with
her eyes closed, as if the thought was too
deliciously droll to be contemplated witfi
open eyes. After a brief period of enjoying
the absurdity of these people, she looked at
her husband and said, "But I hope you
are not angry with those people. William ?
They are mostly poor and ignorant."

Angry with them ! Good gracious, no !

The only thing that put me out was that I

could not bring the money home to you,

dear."

24—2

"But I don't want any money just now."

You never want anything for yourself,
dear," he said in a tone of affectionate admiration
; " set a little money would be
very handy at present. We have only a few
pounds at the bank."

But we don't want more than pocket-money
until next month. There is nothing
of any consequence to pay ; the monthly
bills have been all settled as usual." It was
a great comfort to her to feel that he need
not bother himself about anything so insignificant
as money.

"Yes, but " and he paused, and a

look of pain and perplexity came over his
face. He leaned his elbow on the table
and his head upon his hand.

For a moment there was no word spoken,
but a dull, heavy, low, continuous noise
filled the room. / .-

The noise ceased, and then her infinitely

sympathetic voice said, " Dear, what is
it?"

She was at his side. She had wheeled
her invalid's chair round to him and had
taken his hand in hers.

Those workmen," he said. "They have
swallowed up all I had." He did not take
down his hand. He sighed heavily.

But you are not grieving about that ?
It will all come back a hundredfold one day."

Ay," he said in a tone of oppression and
care, " a thousandfold — ten thousandfold.
But there is the present " He paused.

Suddenly a light broke in upon her.

0," she cried, " how stupid I was not
to guess ! Why did you not speak out at
once? William, dear, excuse me for not
guessing. You will pardon me, dear, won't
you, for not seeing what depressed you ? If
you want money, and there is none at the
bank, why did you not sell out Consols?

Mr. Brereton told me that all my Consols
were as much my own as the income of the
property, since they are my savings."

No, no ! I could not think of doing
such a thing as take your savings."

"But yes, William dear, yes. For my
sake sell out whatever you want. Why
not ? They are not mine. They became
yours on our marriage, dear. Why did you
not sell out?"

No, they were yours, and are yours.
There is a new law."

Then it is a bad law. Take down your
hand and look at me and say you will sell
what you want tomorrow. Do it to oblige
me — for my sake. I cannot bear to see you
in this state. I'll sign anything this foolish
law obliges me to sign. If they are mine I
surely can give them to you. You must
take what you want if you won't take all.
If they are mine I surely can give them to

my husband as well as to any other person.
If you do not consent to take what you
want, I'll sell all out and give you the
money."

She was pleading for the highest favour
he could do her — to let her help him.

No," he said in a tone of authority, " I
will not allow you to do ihatr

Well, take what you want. How much
do you want ? "

"Two hundred would be enough. But
I can't — I can't."

I'll write to Mr. Brereton tomorrow
and ask him to sell out two hundred for
myself, and tell him I want the money fora
private purpose of my own. Take down
your hand, dear, and let us go on with the
accounts. I have looked over the list and
the remarks." She cared nothing for the
accounts, but she wanted the husband
whom she loved to be his old self again.

He took down his hand and pressed
hers, and stroked her smooth hair.

I am sorry and ashamed," he said,
but I am awfully hard pressed, and you
have delivered me."

Let us go on with the list now, William,
and say no more of this matter. Give me
the hist."

He handed her the papers without a
word. Before sitting down he bent over
her and patted her hair and kissed her
forehead.

I know nearly all the names," she said,
but, of course, I have never seen any
of the people."

'you have not missed much by that,
Nellie," he said in tremulous tones, as
though rendered almost tearful by her
generosity. " They are a rough lot."

At the same time he was thinking how
much more delightful it would be to have

Hetty Layard, with all her buoyant youth,
sitting by his side than this faded elderly
invalid. But then Hetty had no money.
A man ought to be allowed two wives :
one with money, who need not be young
or beautiful, and one with beauty, who
need not be rich.

Mrs. Crawford ran her finger down the
names of her tenants, and the houses which
were tenantless, commenting as she went,
and trying to make her own remarks
bear out his theory that the tenants did.
not pay because they were not sure he washer
husband.

"Mrs. Pemberton has not paid, I see.
I don't wonder at all at that. Poor soul,
she has had a great struggle for years, ever
since her husband's death. She has tried
to help herself along by letting lodgings,
Mr. Blore told me, but that won't come to
much in such a poor neighbourhood. I'm

sure I don't know what could induce anyone
to lodge in such a district."

People are often obliged to lodge near
their place of business, no matter how
objectionable their place of business maybe,"
said he sententiously. Then he added
with a smile, " Why, recollect, Nellie, that
I myself am a lodger for business purposes
in the locality."

Of course you are, dear. I quite
forgot that. And what kind of people are
you lodging with ? " she asked cheerfully,
anxious to get his mind as far away as
possible from those wretched Consols and
rapacious artificers.

0, they seem to be quiet respectable
people enough. A little slow, you know,
but perhaps none the worse for that when
they have for a lodger such a gay young
spark as I." He smiled.

She looked lovingly at him, and laughed

at the enormity of the joke of his calling
himself ga}^ and fancying any society could
harm him. 'rand now you must tell me
what your landlord and landlady are like."
He seemed to have forgotten about the
wretched Consols and rapacious artificers.
Well, Layard is a man who has something
to do in the o^as-house. The chief
thing about him is a long beard. He's
rather like a monkey with a beard."
And what is Miss Layard like ? "
She's like a monkey without a beards
said, with one of his short quick laughs.
As I thought before I went there, she's
about ten or twelve years older than he.
She's one of those dowdy little women,
don't you know, dear, whose new clothes
always look second-hand." Again came
his short quick laugh. " She belongs to
what geologists would call the antimacassar
era. There's a dreadful Phyllis,

or somebody else, in tapestry, framed over
their sitting-room mantelshelf. She told
me she worked it when she was young.
But I ought not to laugh at the worthy
soul. It is ungrateful of me ; for I never
tasted a more delicious omelette than she
made for my breakfast. I must get her
next time to give me the recipe for you,
Nellie." He put his arms round his wife's
shoulder and pressed his lips upon lier
smooth hair.

I think, William," said she, " we are
the happiest couple in England."

And I'm sure of it," said he in a tone
of full conviction.

She sighed a sigh of perfect contentment.


He sighed, thinking of Hetty Layard and
her golden hair and luminous blue eyes,
and her lithe round figure, and her fresh
young voice, and the sweet red young lips

through which that voice came to make
sunshine and joy in the air.

"Shall I go on with the list, dear?"
she asked.

She took no interest on her own part in
this Hst; but then the interest of him and
her was bound together in it, and there
was a charm for her in the bond — not the
thing binding them.

"Yes, dear," he answered, wishing the
list at the bottom of the Eed Sea among
the chariots of Pharaoh.

She ran through a few more items on the
paper, and then paused, and said with a
laugh ;

Here is one store, I see, from which
you got neither money nor promise."

"What is that?"

"Ice-house, Crawford's Bay."

"0, ay. I examined the place with
much interest. I believe it is in ruins.

The gates are off, the lower part of it is
full of water. I am told there are eight
or ten feet of water in it."

The place has not been let for ever so
many years. I never saw an ice-house. I
wonder what one is like."

I'll tell you. It's exactly like a huge
room of brick, lined with thick boards, and
one-third below the ground. I examined
this one very closely, thoroughly. There
are no floors in it but the one at the
bottom of the tank — no ladders — nothing.
It is like a great empty tank lined with
wood."

And you say the one at Crawford's Bay
is full of water?" she asked.

"Yes."

She shuddered and drew the light shawl
she wore tightly round her shoulders.

How dreadfully dark and cold it must
be there, William?"

Yes ; but bless me, Nellie, no one lives
in an ice-house, and this one isn't even
let ! " he cried in surprise.

I know. But suppose some one should
fall into it ? Don't you think the doors
ought to be put up ? "

"My dear Nellie, there isn't the least
occasion to waste money on a useless place
like that. Of course if we should let it we
would be only too happy to put it into
good repair. But what is the good of
throwing money away?" •

"But the danger?"

Well, as far as that goes you may
make your mind perfectly easy. No one
has access to the little quay or wharf but
the people in Crawford's House. The rest
of the property is lying idle, and from what
I have seen of the Layardss they are not
the people to go wandering about on the
wharf after dark. Besides, they know that

the ice-house is full of water. It was
Layard's maiden sister first told me."

He laughed at the idea of calling blooming
young Hetty Layard's maiden sister.

"But the child, William— the child!"
persisted the invalid. " Suppose by some
misfortune the child should stray that way
and fall in ? "

Nellie, no person with an atom of sense
would think of permitting a child out on
that wharf. Why, the canal, the waters of
Crawford's Bay, are only a few steps from
the back door of Crawford's House, and
who would let a child play on the banks of
a canal ? I mean, of course, no people like
the Layardss would allow their child to play
there."

But this awful dark huge tank you tell
me of is a thousand times worse than the
open canal. If a child fell into the open
canal people would see him, but if he fell

into that dreadful tank he would be
drowned, poor little fellow, before any one
missed him. I do wish, William, you would
get the doors put up. You see, as you tell
me, there was no danger up to this, for no
one could get near it ; but now there is
a child."

She pleaded with gestures and her eyes
and her voice, as though a child of her
own were menaced.

He held out his hand to her and took
hers in his. '

There, Nellie, I will. I'll see the place
made quite safe. Of course I'll go down
and arrange about it if you wish it."

She raised the hand she held and kissed
it.

He thought what a chance this would

give him of meeting the Layardss — Hetty

before the month was out!

Shall I roll you round to your own
VOL. ir. 25

place now, and you can go on with your
paper and I with my book ? "

"Thank you, dear."

He took up the volume, but he did not
read. He fell into a profound reverie. First
of all, he began to think of how pleasant
it would be to tell Hetty that he had become
alarmed for the safety of her little
nephew, and had come back before his time
to see about putting doors upon the ice-house.
Hetty and he would go out on the
quay, and look at the place and talk the
matter over.

There was one good thing, the quay on
which the ice-house stood was not visible
from the tow-path, so that even if Philip
Eay should chance to pass by he could not
be seen.

Then his thoughts took another turn, and
became concentrated on Philip Eay. He
mused a long time upon his sworn enemy.

Suddenly he shook all over, as if a
chill had struck him. His blood seemed to
thicken in his veins. His eyes stood in his
head, staring straight out before him,
perceiving nothing present in that room,
but seeing a ghastly awful sight in that
dim dark ice-house.

On the surface of the cold secret waters
of the huge tank he saw a hideous object :
the upturned face of a dead man, the face
of Philip Eay.

Crawford's breath came short, and he
panted. His mouth opened, his eyes dilated.

Philip Eay, lying drowned in that hideous
lonely water where no one would
ever think of looking for him ! It was a
perfect way out of the terror of Philip
Eay's anger which beset him. It was a
thing to think upon for ever. A thing thai
might come to pass!

William," said the sweet low voice of

25—2

his wife, "here is a strange thing in the
paper to-day. You remember the awful
nightmare you had, in which you thought
two of your schoolfellows long ago were
going to shoot you ? "

Yes," he answered hoarsely, but he did
not know what she had said. He knew she
had asked a question, and he answered
"Yes." He was in a trance.

"Well, here in to-day's Telegraph are
the two names together. Listen : ' On
the 28th inst., at her residence, London,
Kate, wife of Francis Mellor [nee Elate
of Greenfield, near Beechley, Sussex.'
"

Eh ? " he cried, suddenly starting up
from his chair and looking wildly at his
wife. " Head that again."

In dire alarm at his manner she read
again : " ' On the 28th inst., at her residence,
London, Kate, wife of Francis Mellor knee

Eay), late of Greenfield, near Beechley,
Sussex.' "

What is the good of your playing with
me, you fool! Her death is no good tome.
I am done with her. It's his life I

want, and, by , 1 shall have it too ! "

" William ! " cried the terrified wife.
My William ! Come to me. I cannot goto
you. What is the matter? You look
strange, and you are saying dreadful things,
and you have sworn an awful oath. What
is the matter ? Are you unwell ? Come
to me."

A sudden tremor passed through him,
and with a dazed expression he looked
round him.

With his short laugh he said, "I hope
I didn't frighten you, Nellie, dear. I was
only going over a passage of a play we
used to act at school. I was always good
at private theatricals."

THE TOW-PATH BY NIGHT.

It was now the second week in June. The
weather had been without a flaw. From
dawn to evening the sun had moved
through almost cloudless skies. It was a
splendid time for children to enjoy themselves
out of doors, and every day Freddie
was carried from the back door of Crawford's
House by his Aunt Hetty, handed
into the arms of Francis Bramwell, and
borne across to Boland's Ait, there to
spend his time in riotous fancy and boisterous
play with Frank Bramwell till the
dinner hour.

The two boys got on famously together.
Freddie was the taller and lustier of the

two, with plenty of animal spirits and enterprise
in him, full of indulgent good-humour
and patronising protection for his
companion. Frank was more sedate and
thoughtful. He had a closer and a keener
mind, and as such minds are generally fascinated
by the gifts of physical exuberance
and mental intrepidity, he gave in to his
gayer and more adventurous playmate.
Each was the complement of the other.
Freddie took after his Aunt Hetty in person
and mind, and Frank after his father indisposition
and his mother in appearance.
The fortnight had wrought a marvellous
change in Francis Bramwell. In his youth
he had been a dreamer, a poet. When he
met Kate Eay he became a lover of her, at
times austere and lofty, at times tempestuous.
When he married he remained the
lover still. After the flight of his wife he
plunged headlong into all the fierce excitement

of gambling, and led a completely
reckless life. Then all at once he rushed
into the direct opposite, took up his abode
on the last rod of his property, Boland's
Ait, and lived there the severe life of an
anchorite, lived face to face with the ruins
of the past and possessed his soul in silence,
and mused upon the ways of Providence,
and broke his spirit to the Christian law
of patient endurance.

Now, for the first time in his life, he
was confronted with material duties which
had to be performed with his own hand.
His income he now considered inadequate,
and it could be increased only by his
own labour. He had already planned and
partly written a few articles which he hoped
to get accepted by papers or magazines.
He had been ashore twice and made some
-simple additions to the furniture of the
cottage, and bought toys for Frank and

Freddie to play with. He had levelled and
smoothed and swept the old timber-yard
for the boys, and put the playroom in order
against a rainy day. For the two years
lie had dwelt alone on the Ait he had lived
most frugally, and had not used up all his
slender income, so that these little expenses
did not come out of revenue.

It cheers the heart to have anything todo,
and it soothes and sustains the heart
when we have the result of our activity
always at hand under our eyes.

Of mornings he had to dress Frank,
an operation he at first executed with clumsiness
and in despair. He had to get the
boy his breakfast and watch him while he
ate it. After that he had to fetch Freddie,
set the two young people safely in the
timber-yard, and, having secured the gate,
go back to his sitting-room and write or
meditate his articles until it was time for

Freddie to go home. The boy's dinner had
to be got ready, and then after the departure
of Mrs. Treleaven he shut the outer
door, gave Frank the run of the house,
and sat down to his papers once more
till tea. This meal he prepared without
the aid of Mrs. Treleaven, and shortly
after tea he had to undress little Frank and
put him to bed.

He had been a dreamer, a poet, a lover, a
gambler, a recluse. Now he was becoming
a man. His duties were humanising him.
When he lay down at night it was not, as
of old, to live over again the hideous past
with its vast calamity; but to dwell on
the events of the day with restful complacency,
and to contemplate with gentle
satisfaction the cares and duties of the morrow.
In the old days of his isolation his
veins seemed filled with acrid juices, with
vinegar and gall. In these nights, as he lay

feeling the balm of slumber coming down
upon him through the bland summer air,
the milk of human kindness beat within
his pulses.

In the old days his prayers were for
deliverance and for a spirit of charity.
But he prayed for that spirit of charity
because charity was enjoined by the Great
Teacher. He did not pray for deliverance
in the form of death now. He prayed
that he might be spared to look after his
boy. He had no need to pray for charity
now ; for was not his child lying there
beside him safe and sound and full of rosy
health, and was not the child's mother
forgiven by him and by a Greater, and
in Heaven ?

He never thought of Ains worth. Why
should he? Kate was dead, and he
had his child, and what was all the rest.
of the world to him? Nothing.

To himself lie admitted the situation
was anomalous, and that he was ill-qualified
to take care of so young a child. Of course
it would be worse than folly to think of
his sister in Australia. She had her husband
and her own children, and was prosperous
there. It never occurred to him
once to send his boy to her. The idea
that she might come over to take charge
of his Frank had only arisen to his mind
in dreams, to be laughed at upon waking.
Of course a woman, not a man, was the
natural guardian of a child of little Frank's
age. Look at the care Miss Layard took
of Freddie. What a lucky fellow Layard
was to have such a sister to mind his boy !

Then in a dream, just as he had the
idea of his sister travelling all the way
from Australia to rear Frank, the idea
came to him that it would be a good thing
if Miss Layard would take charge of Frank ;

this, too, was only to be laughed at upon
waking. Miss Layard was not a servant
whom he could employ, or a sister of
whom he could expect such a service. The
thing was an absurdity worthy of midsummer
madness, but what a pity it should
be absurd !

He had dreamed the dream only once
about his sister. He had dreamed the
dream more than once about Miss Layard.
This would be accounted for, no doubt, by
the fact that he saw and spoke to Miss
Layard every day.

The thought of leaving the Ait and
taking a lodging ashore had presented itself
to his mind, only to be dismissed after
a few moments' consideration. By this
time, after his two years of solitude, he
had become accustomed to attending upon
himself, and felt no more awkwardness
in this respect than a sailor. He could

cook his food and light his fire and make
his bed as though he had been accustomed
to shift for himself all his life. For two
years he had been accustomed to all these
services, and now he had the advantage
of Mrs. Treleaven's daily visit, which relieved
him of much of the drudgery. A
lodging such as his present means could
command would be unbearable. All his
life, until the beginning of his reckless
year, he had been accustomed to elegance
and refinement. And all his life, until his
retirement to the islet, he had lived in
comfort, and part of his life in affluence.
He could not endure the thought of contact
with vulgar grasping landladies, and,
above all, he could not entertain the idea
of exposing this child to the dulling and
saddening intercourse with the unrefined
folk to be found in such houses. He should
be able to afford but one room, and how

could he pursue literary studies or labours
with little Frank at his very elbow ? Tolet
the child consort with those around
them would be worse than all the inconveniences
of this place.

No. He must stay where he was until
he had mended his fortunes with his pen.
The old timber-yard was a capital playground
for Frank and Freddie in the fine
weather, and when it rained there was
the room he had prepared for them in the
cottage. Besides — — ^

Besides, if he went to live ashore Frank
would no longer have so suitable a playmate
as Freddie. He himself should certainly
miss the cheerful, vivacious little
chap who lived at Crawford's House, and
yes, and the brief meetings morning
and afternoon with the gay and beautiful
and sympathetic girl. Miss Layard. Let
things be as they were.

Miss Layard had more than once repeated
her brother's invitation to Bramwell
that he should go over for an hour in
the evening. He always pleaded in excuse
the reason given for him by Philip Eay on
the occasion of his hastily and unthinkingly
accepting the first invitation. He could
not leave the boy. Then she asked him
to bring the boy. This could not be done
either. Why ? Well, because it would be
giving them too much trouble. Nothing
of the kind. They would be only too delighted
to have Frank. Well, then, if that
reason would not serve, it would not be
good for the child to keep him up so late ;
he was always in bed a little after seven
o'clock.

But Philip Kay had gone over often,
and brought back word that they were very
nice people, and he liked to talk a great
deal about them, particularly the brother,

to Bramwell, and B ram well thought that
when Philip came back from Crawford's
house he was always more cool and rational,
and so he was always glad when his brother-in-law
went.

It is one of the curious regulations of
the South London Canal that, while you
have to pay toll if you wish to walk along
the tow-path by day, you are free to use
it by night for nothing. This rule would
seem to be made out of a benevolent view
to suicides. A more dreary and dangerous
and murderous-looking place there is
not in all London than that tow-path by
night. To think, merely to think, in the
daytime of walking under one of those
low arches in the dark is enough to make
one shudder.

The distance from the base of the arch

to the edge of the water is; not more than

six feet. If you keep near the wall you
VOL. II. 26

have to bend towards the water ; if you
keep near the water it seems as though
some hideous and terrifying influence will
draw you into the foul, dark, stagnant,
sinister flood. It appears to be
waiting for you, passively waiting therefor
you, with the full knowledge that you
must come, that you are coming, that
you are come. It seems to have a purpose
apart from all other things about it,
and that purpose is to draw 3'ou. It seems
to say in an unuttered voice, '' I am Death
and Silence."

If, as you stood under one of those
odious arches, you stooped slowly, slowly
until your hand touched the brink, you
would have to thrust your fingers down
an inch further to touch the water itself.
And then you would find it was dead
that it had no motion ; that by the
sense ^of touch alone you could not tell

which way the canal flows, the current

is so slow — so deadly slow. In the plutonian

darkness under the bridge you

could see nothing, and from the dead water

a peculiar and awful silence seems to

rise like an exhalation.

You would not utter a word there to

save your life. You would feel you had no

life to save, that it already belonged to the

water. If, then, as you stooped you slipped,

you would roll into the water without a

splash, for you would be on a level with the

surface. You could not utter a cry, for the

terrible, the odious influence of the place

would be upon you. Even if you called

out your voice would be of no avail, for no

human being could hear you, and it would

only infuriate the obscene genius of the

place. Then, if the terror did not kill you

instantly, the waters would — slowly —

surely, for there is nothing to lay hold of

26—2

but those fiat slippery stones, and you
would be in the stagnant water against a
perpendicular wall. The sharp pains of
the most perfect torture-chamber ever designed
would not be equal to dying there
alone upright against that wall, holding on
by those smooth slippery flat stones on a
level with your chin, and as you were
gradually pulled down, down, down, inch
by inch, by the loathsome genius of these
waters.

But the horrors of this place are seldom
invaded at night by human foot. Often
from summer dark to summer dawn no
tread of man beats upon that forlorn tow-path.
After nightfall the place has an evil
reputation in the neighbourhood. More
than a dozen times in the memory of living
people cold and clammy things, once men
and women, have been drawn slowly,
laboriously, with dripping clothes, out of

these turbid waters. No man but one
sorely pressed by necessity would think of
taking that path at midnight : and even
when in dire haste he would have need of
strong nerves to face it, to set out upon it,
to plunge into it. For, unlike the streets
and roadways that go by the dwellings of
kindly men, once upon it there is no way
from it, no cross-road or byway until the
stretch of half-a-mile or a mile is accomplished.
If any supreme terror or danger
menaced the traveller on that path, he has
only one refuge, one means of escape, one
sanctuary to seek — the canal itself.

In the ditch, on the inner side of the path,
you cannot know what may be crouching.
Shapes and forms and monsters too
hateful for sanity to endure may be lurking
in that ditch, and may spring out on you,
on your unprotected side, at any moment as
you walk along. If this should happen

would not it be better for you to seek
blindness and extinction in the waters?

Or may there not lie in wait some shapes
in human form more appalling than gorgon
or chimera dire, some human ghouls who
have committed crimes never dreamt of by
the soul of affrighted man ? May not these
come forth and whisper at your ear as you
go by, and tell you what they have done in
tombs and charnel houses until the flesh
falls ofi* your bones with dread, and you
take these waters of forgetfulness at your
side to be not a river of Arcus, but of
blissful deliverance?

And what a place is this for a woman by
night !

She has crept cautiously out of Leeham
and struck the canal at Leeham Bridge.
At that time all Leeham is asleep in bed or
at work in the great gasworks. Not a soul
is abroad but two or three people moving

to or from the Neptune at the end of the
Pine Groves.

The woman creeps cautiously from the
road down the approach leading to the
canal. There is not a soul on the tow-path ;
the place is as still as a cave. She can
hear the beating of her own heart distinctly
as she walks along, keeping in the shadow.

But she will have to come out of the
shadow in a moment, or rather she will
have to enter the sphere of light, for on the
tow-path to her left there is a gas-lamps

She darts quickly through the patch of
light and into the cavernous darkness of
the bridge.

In that brief period of illumination all
that could be seen was that she did not exceed
the average height of woman, might
be a little below it ; that she was poorly
clad ; that she wore a bonnet and thick impenetrable
veil ; that she was covered from

neck to heel with a long dark cloak, and
that the unloved hand which grasped the
cloak in front and held it close was thin
and white.

She did not seem conscious of any of the
horrors of that dismal arch ; while under
it she was more free from the chance
of observation than on the road or approach.
She drew herself more upright,
and slackened her pace for a moment.
Then with another shudder she walked
swiftly from under the arch and set off
for Welford Bridge.

On her right lay a ditch neither wet nor
dry ; on her left the voiceless waters of the
canal, and beyond the canal a line of mute,
uninhabited, inscrutable wharves which
looked like dead parts of a living city
which had drifted away, leaving this rack
behind.

She sped on, unheeding her surroundings.

She did not look to left or right. She kept
the edge of the canal, as though the water
were the best friend she had there. Now
and then with her white unloved hand she
drew her cloak closer round her, rather as
though to preserve her own resolution
within it, to prevent her purpose from
escaping, than to protect her from observation
from without.

She came within the shadow of the
mighty gas-house, which, too, was silent,
save now and then a startling and alarming
clamour of metal, as though the summons
of Titan to witness some overwhelming
disaster. Against the blue sky and pallid
stars of early summer the huge chimneys,
and cranes, and pillars, and tanks, and
viaducts, and scaffolding, and shoots, and
the enormous and towering masses of the
gasometers, stood up in a piece like some
prodigious engine of one motive, some

monstrous machine used in the building of
mountains or hollowing out of seas. Now
and then, through apertures low down in
this prodigious engine, small living things,
no bigger than insects in comparison with
the mass, came and stood clearly visible,
pricked out in the darkness against the
glow within. These were men flying for a
moment from the fiery heat of the huge
instrument to cool their bodies and their
lungs in the open air.

The woman took no more note of all this
wonderful work of man than to draw her
cloak to her on that side, lest it might
distract her from her purpose.

At length, as she kept on her way undismayed,
she approached a black mass of
shadow, stretching across the canal and
tow-path, as though to bar her further
progress.

As she drew nearer, an arc of light appeared

in the centre of this dark barrier,
and beyond, or rather in the middle of
the arc a speck of brighter light still.

The dark barrier was Welford Bridge ;
the larger and duller light in the middle of
it was the eye of the bridge ; and the central
ray, like the light on the pupil of an eye,
was the lamp in the bedroom of Boland's
Ait.

The woman paused when she saw this
latter light, and, leaving the margin of the
canal, crossed the tow-path to a low warehouse
and leaned against the wall in the
shadow to rest.

From the point at which she now stood
resting against the wall she could see the
light in the open window of the cottage.

Presently the spark formed by the lamp
waved. The lamp had been removed from
the window-sill. The sash of the window
was allowed to remain up. There was a

sudden flicker of light, and then all in the
cottage was dark. The lamp had been
extinguished.

The woman withdrew her shoulder from
the wall, gathered her cloak round her, and
resumed her way along the edge of the tow-path,
going south. She walked more slowly
now, as if in thought or to give time.
She walked as though she must, because of
her inclination, make progress, but must
not for some reason make too quick an
advance.

Presently she stepped into the profound
gloom under Welford Bridge, and in a few
seconds emerged upon the other side. Here
she made another pause.

Not a soul was in sight. She had met
no one since taking the tow-path at Leeham.
The night was perfectly still. She looked
around at the bridge, and then moved
rapidly along the path, as though wishing

to get beyond the point at which she
might attract the attention of an}^ one
looking over the parapet.

When about two hundred yards from the
bridge she paused once more. Here was no
building against which she could lean, but
instead a sharply sloping bank surmounted
by a wall. Opposite where she stood a
large log of wood reclined against the slope.
She crept over and leaned against the bank
beside the log. In this position she would
be perfectly invisible to any one looking
over the parapet, or even passing along
the tow-path carelessly. Here the horse-track
was more than twice its ordinary
width, and between the trodden part of the
path and the bank spread a space of grass-grown
waste of equal width.

Directly opposite to her stood Crawford's
House, and a little further to the left
Boland's Ait. She put her hollowed right

hand behind her ear, leaned her head
towards the islet, and listened intently.
Not a sound. She closed her eyes and
concentrated all her faculties in the one of
hearing. The tranquillity of the cloudless
night was unbroken by any murmur but the
dull dead murmur that always hangs over
the city, and is faintly perceptible even
here.

Suddenly a soft gentle sound stole upon
her ears, but not from the desired quarter.
The voice of a woman singing reached her.
She opened her eyes. A light burned now
in the top room of Crawford's House.

The wayfarer on the tow-path could make
nothing out, owing to the distance and to
the light being behind the singer, save that
a woman was standing at the open window
and humming in a very low voice an old
lullaby song. The light of the lamp came
through the hair of the singer, and the

listener saw that the colour of the hair was
golden.

The watcher leaned back against the
bank, closed her eyes, and put her hands
over her ears. She remained so a considerable
time. When she opened her eyes
the light had been extinguished. She took
her hands down from her ears — all was
still once more.

She looked up and down the track carefully,
and strained her ear to catch footfalls ;
but no one was in view, and no noise oi-feet
broke the frozen monotony of the
silence. Gathering her cloak around her,
she left her resting-place, and, having gained
the edge of the water, resumed her way at
a rapid rate in a southerly direction until
she got opposite the tail of Boland's Ait.

Here she reduced her pace, and kept on
with her eyes fixed eagerly on the ground
at her feet. She bent forward, and as low

as she could. Apparently, she was looking
for some mark.

There gleamed the full light of unclouded
June night and unsullied faint blue June
stars, but no moon aided her search.

At length she stopped and examined the
ground very closely. Then she stooped
lower still, and thrust her hand down,
passing it outside the bank until it touched
the water.

She seized some object first with one hand,
and then with both, and drew back from
the bank softly, cautiously, as though her
very life depended on the care she took.
Something stretched from her hands — a linea
chain. It was fast to the bank, and
reached from her hands out into the water
a few feet from where she stood.

She had in her hands the chain by which
the floating stage was drawn from Boland's
Ait across the canal when any one wanted

to go from the tow-path to the island. The
chain yielded with her a little, and then
would come no more. She drew upon it
with all her might, but it simply rose out
of the water at a slightly increased distance
from the bank. She became desperate, and
pulled with all her might and main. She
dug her heels into the ground, and threw

the whole weight of her body backward.

To no avail.

She tore off her cloak and flung it on the

ground that she might have greater freedom.

She dragged at the chain, now pulling it

from one side, now from the other. The

stage did not move. Her hands were cut

and bleeding.

She stooped low and got the chain over

her shoulder, and flung the whole weight of

her body over and over again into the

loop.

The harsh rugged chain tore the skin and
VOL. n. 27

flesh of her soft delicate shoulder until it
too bled. But the stage remained motionless.


She sank down on the ground half insensible
from despair and pain.

She rose up and put the chain on the uninjured
shoulder, and wrenched and tore
and struggled at it, whispering to herself,
I will — I must — I tell you I must see my
child once more before I die. I only want
to see him asleep, through the window, anyway,
once. Do you hear me ? I will see
my child before I die. A mother has a
right to see her child before she dies.
Mercy, mercy, mercy ! One look, only one
before I go away for ever ! "

She sank to the ground again. The
chain slipped from her shoulder, and with a
moan she spread out her torn and bleeding
hands on the rugged ground and lay still.

The first faint streaks of dawn were in

the sky before she recovered consciousness.
She rose, put on her cloak, and with dejected
head and tottering steps turned her
back upon the Ait and walked in the direction
of Leeham.

^TrQ)S!T

27 2

A HOSTAGE AT CRAWFORD's HOUSE.

The failure of Philip Eay's expedition to
Eichmond had dispirited him in the pursuit
of the man whom he called John Ainsworth,
but whom Eichmond knew as William
Crawford. He was an impulsive man inaction,
but when action was denied to him,
he could make little or no progress. He
was a man of devices rather than plans.
In the heat of action he could invent, but
he needed the stimulus of present necessity
or expediency before he could design. He
could carry out a plan, not invent one. He
was a good captain, but no general.

Hence, when he found himself baffled at
Eichmond, he did not know in what direction
to turn for a clue to Ainsworth. He

chafed under his impotency ; but he could
not remove it. The conclusion to which he
came was that Ainsworth did not live at
Eichmond, and he hated that town because
of the disappointment he had experienced
in it. His determination to take vengeance
on Ainsworth was still unshaken ; but he
felt that, having missed his man once, the
likelihood of encountering him again was
diminished. Say, according to the law of
chances, they should be fated to meet twice
in ten years : one of those meetings had
been missed, owing to the ill-luck of his not
being in Eichmond the day Lambton saw
Ainsworth there. This, of course, was not
logical, but then no one who knew Eay
ever expected him to be influenced by pure
reason. It was not according to the law of
chances, for he had had no chance of seeing
Ainsworth in Eichmond, since he himself
had not been in the town that day.

On the evening of his return from Richmond
he had been asked by Bramwell to go
and apologise to Layard for the postponement
or abandonment of his brother-in-law's
visit. Layard had opened the door for
him, and, seeing a young man he did not
know, and having heard from Hetty that
Bramwell had promised to call, he concluded
that this was the promised visitor ;
held out his hand, and had drawn Philip
inside the door before the latter could explain.
As soon as Eay had told Layard he
was not the expected man, and that he was
only a relative of the desired guest, " Well,"
said Layard with one of his unexpected
bright smiles on his homely face, " since you
have ventured into the bandit's cave, I must
hold you as hostage until he comes to release,
or reclaim, or redeem you. Sit down."

But he will not come. He cannot come,
he expects me back. He is unable to come

because lie cannot leave the boy alone,"
said Eay, somewhat disarmed and drawn
towards this ugly man with the kind voice
and surprising smile.

Well, now, you cannot plead the same
excuse. You are here, in the first place,
and, in the second place, the boy's not alone
now. Do sit down, pray. I do not make
a new acquaintance once in a year, and I
haven't a single companionable neighbour.
You won't miss half-an-hour out of your
life, and I should take it as a favour if you
gave me one."

What could Eay do but sit down ?

Do you smoke ? " asked Layard.

Yes."

"For," said Layard, as they lit their pipes,
my sister says she is certain Mr. Bramwell
doesn't smoke ; and her reason for thinking
so is because he seems not to be a fool."

Then," said Eay, putting down his

pipe, "perhaps Miss Layard objects to
smoking."

Not she," said Layard ; " it is only her
disagreeable way of rebuking me. Please
go on with your pipe."

Old maids," thought Eay, " invariably
do object to smoking. I'm sorry I sat
down, and now I can't in decency get up
for a while. An elderly female edition of
this man would be a dreadful sight."

His own handsome face, with its straight
brows and straight nose, was reflected behind
Layard's back in the little mirror of
the chiffonier.

"You do not live in this neighbourhood
? " asked Layard, when Eay had resumed
his pipe.

"No. I live in Camberwell."

Layard straightened himself in his chair,
and looked hard at the other for a few
seconds.

That receding forehead," thought Vindicates
a weak intellect. I hope I am
not face to face alone with a madman.
What on earth is the ape looking at! I
wish this gorgon sister, however hideous
she may be, would come in."

The door opened, and, in response to his
thought, the gorgon entered.

"My sister, Mr. Eay. Hetty, Mr. Eay
has called to say that Mr. Bramwell cannot
come this evening; he must not leave his
little boy alone, and I have impounded
Mr. Eay."

Eay bowed, and took in his hand the
slender hand that was held out to him
with a smile, took in his eyes the smile
and the beauty of the girl, and said to
himself, " Are they real ? "

He was disposed to think some trick was
being played upon him, for, from what
Frank said, he had been prepared forage

and ugliness ; and what Layard had said
about the smoking had prepared him for
sourness and sarcastic eyes, and here !

Hetty sat down quite close to Philip, and
he felt very strangely at this, because still
he had the feeling that there must be some
trick in the affair ; since he was prepared
for blue spectacles, and a blue nose, and
a front, perhaps, and prominent teeth.
And here, instead, were the brightest and
bluest and most cheerful eyes he had ever
seen, instead of spectacles ; and a lovely
delicate, shapely nose, with the least suggestion
of an aquiline curve in it, and
of the colour of the petal of a white
rose that lies over the petal of a red rose,
and hair that was like amber against the
sun, and teeth as even as a child's and as
white as a fresh-cut apple. Was it all real ?

Won't you go on smoking, Mr. Eay ? "
said the apparition at his side.

I will," said Eay, not knowing what he
said, but putting the pipe mechanically
into his mouth. He didn't even say
"Thank you." He had still some notion
of unreality in his mind. Was it a dream,
if it wasn't a trick ? Anyway, it would be
best to be on his guard, so he only said
I will," without even " Thank you." He
was waiting to see what would happen
next.

The next thing that happened was nothing
to astonish an ordinary mortal, but^it
filled Philip Eay with such a feeling of at
once disappointment and joy that he was
afterwards certain he must have spoken
incoherently for a few minutes.

Said Layard to Hetty, "I was just on
the point of saying to Mr. Eay when you
came in that if, by any misfortune, another
quarter of an hour went by without my
getting food, all would be up with me."

With a laugh Hetty rose and left the
room.

Eay thought, " That strange look I saw
in his eyes must have been the bale fire ol
cannibalism. He must have been thinking
of eating me ! "

Then in a few minutes the strangest
thing in this dream happened before
Philip's eyes. The girl of whose reality
he had such doubt carried in the supper-things
like the simplest maiden that ever
ministered to man. Philip rose and stood
with his back against the mantelpiece,
looking on, while Layard helped his sister
to spread the feast and kept up a running
commentary on the various articles as they
were placed on the table.

When all was ready they sat down,
Philip still feeling dull and heavy, like
one in a dream. Could it be that this incomparable
being was no more in that

household than the sister of the host?
Could it be that she busied herself with
plates and knives and forks, and beef and
salad and cress, just like other girls he had
seen ? Incredible ! And yet if he had not
been dreaming, so it was.

Pepper, mustard, vinegar, oil ! I see
only four cruets, Hetty," said Alfred Layard
reproachfully. " What is the meaning of
only four cruets ? Where is the fifth ? "

There are only four bottles. What do
you want, Alfred?"

I do not want anything, but Mr. Eay
does. Mr. Eay, do you take your arsenic
with your beef or in the salad ? "

Philip looked from one to the other with
a stupid smile. He felt more than ever
that the whole thing was unreal, notwithstanding
the fact that he was eating and
drinking.

"When you know Alfred better, you

won't mind anything he says," said the
girl, addressing the guest.

"Speak for yourself," said Layard
solemnly and in a warning voice. " Listen
to me ! Just as you came into the room,
Hetty "

0, I know ! You told us that before.
You were on the point of fainting from
hunger."

No ! That was only my way of putting
it. What I really meant was that I did not
feel myself able to face the discovery I had
made without the aid of food instantly
applied, and in ample quantities."

But what about the arsenic ? " she
asked, with a look of perplexed amusement.


"I'm coming to the arsenic."

I thought you intended it for Mr. Eay.
What has he done ? "

Hetty, you are flippant. What has he

done ? Why, do you know that he lives at
Camberwell ? " cried Layard, putting down
his knife and fork, and glaring at his sister
with a horrified expression.

Is that a capital offence at Welford ? '*
asked Eay, trying to rouse himself.

In the present connection it is ten thousand
times a worse crime than slaying the
sacred Ibis. You live at Camberwell. You
walk along the tow-path . You get by a floating
stage from the tow-path to Boland's Ait.
Confess ! You may as well confess. I seg
it all now. Were you on Boland's Ait
within the past week ? *'

Certainly ; I confess I was. Is that a
still greater offence than living at Camberwell
? "

"It makes part of the stupendous
crime."

And what is the stupendous crime ? "

Our sometime lodger, Mr. Crawford,

saw you come along the track, saw you disappear
behind the head of the island, and
saw you did not reappear at the other end.
Being thus unable to make head or tail of
you, he thought you were drowned, and insisted
on my going out at a most untimely
hour in order that we might make certain
of your fate. As we just got under Welford
Bridge you stepped out from under it,
looking not a penny the worse ; I say
you deserve death for these abnormal
aquatic habits of yours, by which you disturb
a quiet household, and take a peaceful
citizen like me away from his warm fireside
into the bleak winds of December close on
midnight."

I'm very sorry, I'm sure," said Eay,
with a smile, " and I am very much indebted
to Mr. Crawford for the interest he
took in me. He must be a very kindhearted
man."

He's a hero ! " cried Hetty enthusiastically.
" A Bayard ! "

But, as I told you before, rather fat for
the part"' said her brother. " Mr. Eay, he
is our lodger and our landlord, and hence
he must be above all reproach. Our association
with him would put him all right if
he was a Thug. But my sister is really
too much carried away by her admiration
for this Bayard because he married a rich
woman "

Who is a hopeless invalid," broke in
Hetty.

Who owns a good deal of property in
this neighbourhood "

And is ever so much older than he. I
call him a most heroic man."

And large savings out of her income."

Mr. Eay, don't mind Alfred. He is

only joking. In his secret heart he admires

Mr. Crawford as much as I do ; but he will
VOL. n. 28

not give in. This man saved Mrs. Crawford
from being burned in her house. She is
ever so much older than he, and he married
her out of a wish to make her happy after
saving her life at the risk of his own." The
girl became quite excited as she spoke.
Iter lips quivered, her cheeks flushed, the
golden light blazed in her blue eyes.

Her brother looked at her with admiration.


Philip Eay looked at her, and for the
first time in his life realised ecstasy. He
had never tasted the wine of love before,
and now he was drinking the most potent
and intoxicating of all kinds — love at first
sight.

I consider," he said, at last fully awake,
"Mr. Crawford a very lucky man." He
meant in having so beautiful an advocate.

So do I," said Layard, meaning in a
worldly sense.

And does he live with you always ? "
asked Eay, who had some confused memory
of the phrase, " sometime lodger."

No," said Hetty. " He is to come tous
for only a couple or three days a
month. He has his offices for the property
upstairs."

0, I see," said Eay, much relieved. He
did not want this object of her admiration
to be near her. He was now interested no
more in Mr. Crawford. To keep the conversation
going, he said, " And where does
Mr. Crawford live the rest of the time ? "

"At Eichmond."

He started. The name of the town was
a harsh, discordant note ; but he said
nothing, and shortly after took his leave,
promising to call again.

From that night he visited almost every

evenings at Crawford's House. When he

was not there he pitied himself with a

28—2

AN ISLE OF SURREY.

pathetic, desperate pity. When he Alas
there he wondered how all the rest of the
world could be content to dwell so far
apart from her.

CRAWFORD SELLS A PATENT.

A FEW days after William Crawford's return
from Welford, and the scene in which he
gave his wife a specimen of his quality as
the player of a part in private theatricals,
he went up to London with one of the hundred
pounds in his pocket. He told her he
could not dream of taking the money from
her except to pay the men working on the
models and machines for his great patent,
and in the interest of their joint worldly
welfare.

He set off, as usual, in the afternoon,
taking with him half the money. He was a
gambler, but no plunger. He played for
the excitement of the game, rather than for

the sake of gaining. He had no idea that
he should win a fortune. His luck was
usually bad, but this did not keep him
back ; nor did he play on in the hope
or expectation that it would turn so as
to recoup him. Every gambler is entitled
to curse his luck, and Crawford cursed his
with no bated breath. But he would rather
have bad luck than no play. He was nota
mean man with money when he had it,
but he was a desperate man when he
wanted it.

Cards and pretty faces were his weaknesses.
With regard to cards, he recognised
the laws of honour ; with regard to pretty
fasces, he regarded no law but the law of his
wishes. He had never been in love in his
life. He admired pretty women, and made
love to every pretty woman he met, if
occasion served. But he was completely
wanting in any feeling of self-sacrifice or

devotion. He was, as lie told his wife,
good at private theatricals. He could play
the heroic, or romantic, or sentimental
lover, according as circumstances demanded,
to the utmost perfection ; but his heart was
never once touched. He looked on women
as inferior creatures, the natural prey of
man. With them he had no mercy or compunction.
He made love automatically to
the owner of every pretty face he came
across, provided there was no great risk
from male friend or relative ; for, though
he could assume the air and words of a heroin
the presence of a woman, he fought shy
of men in their anger, and was of that
prudent disposition that prefers flight to
fight.

On going to town this afternoon, he left
half the money he had got from his wife
behind him. One hundred pounds was
quite enough for one night ; one hundred

pounds was quite as good as two. Playing
for certain stakes, one hundred pounds
would last him the whole night, even if
luck were dead against him. Two hundred
pounds would enable him to play for
stakes of double the amount : that was all.
He would rather play two nights for small
stakes than one night for stakes of double
the value.

William Crawford was a cautious, not to
say cowardly, man. This talk of the artificers
engaged in making a machine for
him was not wholly illusory. From time
to time he ordered inexpensive portions of
machinery at a mechanical engineer's in the
Blackfriars Eoad. He never took the parts
of the machine away ; but left them in the
workshops, saying he would not remove them
until it was all ready to be put together.
,He had no fear that he might one day be
driven to make good his words about this

wonderful machine in course of construction
; but if he were, there lay the wheels
and racks and drums in the workshop. Of
course the manner in which they were to
be put together remained his secret. It was
not likely he would divulge that until he
had secured his patent, and, for aught you
could know or should know from him to
the contrary, he might have other portions
of the machine in course of manufacture
for him in other workshops.

When he arrived in town this early day
in June he went first to the Blackfriars
Eoad and gave an order for two cog-wheels
of peculiar make. He handed in a
paper with the specification, paid a bill of a
couple of pounds, and then betook himself
to the Counter Club.

Here he dined, and from the dinner-table
went to the guardroom, which he did not
leave until seven o'clock the next mornings.

He breakfasted at the club, and after breakfast
fell asleep in a clair in the deserted
smoking-room, and did not wake for a
couple of hours. Then he went out, and
turning into Bond Street, did a little shopping,
and got back to Eichmond at about
noon.

He found his wife in the drawing-room
with some fancy work in her hand. After
an affectionate greeting, he sat down beside
her and took her hand as usual. Contrary
to his custom, he had brought no book, or
flowers, or basket of fruit.

"And how did you get on in town,
William?" she asked, giving no time for
him to notice, if he had not already noticed,
the omission of his customary little present.

Very well indeed, Nellie. Better than
1 could have hoped. Better than I
deserved."

Not better than you deserved, surely,

dear," she said fondly. " That could not
be."

"Well, better than I could have hoped.
I am afraid, Nellie, I got on so splendidly
that success has turned my head."

She looked at him in surprise and pressed
his hand. "I know you better than to
think success could turn your head."

Nevertheless, my success has had such
an effect on me that I have not brought you
any flowers, or fruit, or a book. Does not
that look like being spoiled by success?
Should I not be spoiled by prosperity when
I forgot you?"

It does not follow," she said tenderly,
as though she were excusing herself, not
him, " that because you did not bring me
something that you forgot me." -

He put his hand in his pocket, took
something out of it, and before she knew
what he was doing she found a gold bracelet,

having a circle of pearls round a large
diamond, clasped upon her arm.

She gave a little cry of wonder and
pleasure. " Why, what is this ? Where did
you get it? YHiom is it for?"

It is for my own wife Nellie. I bought
it for her in Bond Street to-day, to show her
that I did not forget her when away. And
I did not buy it out of the money she lent
me yesterday — for, look ! '' He threw into
her lap a lot of gold and notes. " There's
the hundred pounds I took with me to
town — and look ! " He held out towards
her more gold and notes. " Here is another
hundred I have got over and above what
she lent me, and the price of the bracelet."

Wonder upon wonder ! " she cried with
a laugh and a simple childlike joy in her
husband's success. " Tell me all about the
affair. Have you met fairies ? "

No, dear. Only a good angel, and you

are she," he said, and kissed the hand
below the ij^leamingf bracelet.

But I did not give you this. You got
this yourself."

No, you did not give me this money
directly, but you gave me the means of
getting it."

But tell me all, dear. I am dying to
hear."

You must know, then, that in designing
some machinery for preparing my fibre I
hit upon an immense improvement in the
scutching machine now in use. I patented
my improvement, and soul my patent last
evening for two hundred and fifty pounds."

She was overwhelmed with gratitude and
joy. This was the first-fruit of his genius,
the earnest of his great triumph !

For half-an-hour they sat and chatted,
he telling her his schemes for the future,
and she listening, full of delight and pride

and love. Then he said he had some
writing to do, and went to his room.

The fact was that he could hardly keep
his eyes open. It had been. a very hot
night at the Counter Club, and he had
come away the winner of close upon three
hundred pounds. He locked the door,
drew down the blind, threw himself on a
couch, and was fast asleep in a few minutes.

Mrs. Crawford always breakfasted in her
own room, and had her other meals brouij^ht
to her in the drawing-room. She had
gradually sunk back almost to the helpless
condition in which she had lived so long
before the fire. She suffered no pain, but
she was nearly as helpless as a year ago.
If necessity required it, she could creep
about the room by resting her hands on the
furniture, but as a rule she went from one
place to the other by means of her invalid's
chair. She never ventured down-stairs now.

She lived upon the first-floor. Here were
her bedroom, the drawing-room, her husband's
study — which he called his own
room — and the dressing-room where he
slept, so as to be within call if she needed
assistance in the night.

The doctors told Crawford that his wife
was, if anything, rather worse than she had
been before the fire, and that any other
such shock would in all likelihood kill her.

Is there no chance of it producing an
effect like the former one ? " Crawford had
asked.

Well, there was no saying for certain.
This, however, was sure, that if she sustained
another shock and by chance she
once more regained the use of her limbs,
the relief would be only temporary, and the
reaction would leave her in a very critical
condition indeed — the chances were ten to
one she would die.

A shock, then, was to be avoided at any
cost.

With Mrs. Crawford's life all William
Crawford's interest in the property would
pass away. This property brought in more
than Ned Bayliss, or Jim Ford, or Matt
Jordan, or any of the other loafers on
Welford Bridge imagined. The income
was nearer to two than one thousand
a year, and Mrs. Crawford's savings exceeded
three thousand pounds. These
savings would become Crawford's absolute
property upon his wife's death. She had
practically put them at his disposal already.
They were his own, she told him, and he
took her word for it. But that was a good
reason why he should be moderately careful
of them. As long as she lived he had not
only these savings at his disposal, but the
lion's share of the income as well. If he
did not blunder, nothing could take the

savings away from him ; if she died he
would lose all participation in the fine
income.

A shock was to be avoided at any cost.

One morning after breakfast, in the middle
of June, Crawford came into the drawing-room,
and said to this wife :

I have slept so badly ! I do not know
when I had so little sleep, and the little I
got so disturbed."

She looked at him anxiously. " You are
not unwell? You don't feel anything the
matter, do you ? "

0, no ! I am quite well. But I have had

such horrid nightmares. What you said tome

a fortnight ago about the want of gates

on that ice-house all came back to me in

sleep last night, and I had the most awful

visions of that young Layard drowning

in it while I was looking on, unable to

stretch out my hand to save him." He
VOL. n. 29

made a gesture as though to sweep away
the spectacle still haunting him.

"I am so sorry, William, I said anything
about the place. I am, indeed. I spoke
foolishly, no doubt. You are not so superstitious
as to fancy anything dreadful has
happened ? " she asked, losing colour and
leaning back in her chair.

Dear me ! No. And I don't think you
spoke foolishly at all. I now see that what
you said was quite right. I own it's very
selfish of me, but I do not feel disposed to
go through another such night as last.
That brought home to me the danger you
saw at once, and instinctively."

She could not help smiling and feeling
gratified at these candid and gracious words
from so clever a man — from a man who got
two hundred and fifty pounds the other
day for the pure brain-work of a couple of
hours.

And what do you think of doing ? "

Well, I feel that the surest way to lay
the ghost that haunted me last night, and
provide against all danger, would be for me
to go down to Welford and get these gateways
boarded up."

Indeed, indeed ! I'm sure that would
be the best thing to do. When did you
fancy you would go ? "

I could go to-day. I am not doing
anything particular. Do you want me
for anything ? "

He asked the question in a soft submissive
voice.

I ! " she cried, flushing with pleasure
at his deference to her. " Not I, William I
I am all right, and feel as well as usual.
You could do nothing that would please
me more."

Very well, then ; I'll go at once. I

shall not want more than an hour or so

29—2

there. I need not wait to see the thing
done. All I shall have to do is to get
hold of a carpenter, and put the job into
his hands."

And so he set out for Welford.

The fact is he had dreamed last night
of Hetty Layard's bright face and wonderful
golden hair, and he was getting
tired of Eichmond and — the house.

It would be very pleasant to go down
to Welford, knock at the door, and find
Hetty alone. Her brother would be at
the gasworks. Philip Eay was in some
public office or other, and could not come
to make that tow-path horrible with his
presence at that hour of the day. He
should be able to reach Crawford's House
at about eleven, and get away at about
one or two. Thus he would run no risks,
and he should see again the prettiest girl
he had now in his memory.

WILLIAM Crawford's nightmare.

Hetty," said Alfred Layard to his sister
at breakfast that same morning, " you
know I am not a discontented man."

Indeed, I know that very well, Alfred.
See how you put up with me ! "

Hetty," said he severely, " in this house ^
jokes are ny prerogative."

"I am not joking in the least, Alfred.
I know I am not anything like as good
as I ought to be to you. But I'll try to
be better in future, Alfred. Indeed I
will ! "

Her tone was full of sorrow.

"Hetty" said he sternly, " in this house
pathos is my prerogative also. Mind what

you're about. If you make me laugh or
yourself cry you will oblige me to do
something I should be extremely loath
to do."

And what is that ? " she asked, struggling
to repress a smile.

Hold my tongue. Bad as my loquacity
is, my silence would be a thousand times
worse. How would you like me to sit
at the table and only point at the things
I wanted? Suppose there was some one
here, how would you like me to make a
motion for a slate, and write on it with
a squeaking pencil, ' Hetty, your hair is
down! ' You would not like it a bit. No,
Hetty ; I was not thinking of you when
I said I was not a discontented man. I
was thinking of Crawford, our landlord-tenant."


Of Mr. Crawford ! 0, what were you
thinking of him ? "

1 was thinking that I am not too well
satisfied with our arrangements about this
house. I fancy I am almost sorry I entered
into the agreement at all."

But why ? Surely we are saving
money : twenty pounds a year or more
by the house, and Mr. Crawford is no
trouble, or next to none."

"He's very little trouble in the house,
I own. But he troubles me in my mind.
There is something about the man I don't
like. I can't tell you for certain what
it is, but I think it is because he is a
coward."

A coward, Alfred ! A coward ! Good
gracious ! is it the man who saved Mrs.
Crawford from the burning house at the
risk of his own life ? Don't you think you
are very unjust?"

Perhaps. But, for goodness' sake, don't
say anything about Bayard ! "

It was you who called him a
Bayard."

I don't think it was ; and if it was, I
meant it sarcastically. That man is in
good bodily health, and yet he is afraid
of something or some one. Now, when
a man in good bodily health goes about
in fear you may be certain he has good
cause for being afraid, and you may be
equally sure [that whatever he is afraid of
is not to his credit."

Layard rose to go. Freddie was in
the kitchen with Mrs. Grainger.

Isn't a good deal of, or all, this fancy ?"
asked Hetty, as she too rose.

"It may be fancy that he is afraid of
something discreditable ; but I am certain
he is afraid."

How can you tell that ? " asked the
girl, in incredulous wonder.

By his eyes and the motion of his

hands. That man could not for a thousand
pounds sit in a room the door of which
had opened at his back without turning
round."

"Upon my word, you are growing quite
fanciful, Alfred. And did you notice that
he was very much afraid of us ? " she said
in a bantering tone.

'she is afraid of every one until he is
assured of what that person is."

Of Mrs. Grainger and me, for instance
? "

Yes, he would be afraid of you until
he saw your face and discovered who you
were."

Alfred, I never felt so proud in all my
life before. To think that a strong manlike
him should go about shaking in his
shoes at sight of me is quite romantic.
I must cultivate all kinds of dark and
forbidding[ looks. I feel that I could act

the bravo if I only had a cloak and a
dagger and the divided skirt."

"Well, good morning, Hetty. I am
glad you will have no chance of terrifying
him for a fortnight, anyway ; " and off he
went.

"That brother of mine," thought the
girl, as she prepared to remove the break-fastenings,
" is the very best man in
the world. He is the most kind-hearted
and generous fellow that ever breathed.
But with respect to this Mr. Crawford,
he has some strange prejudice which I
cannot understand. I never knew him
absolutely dislike a man before. He has
not gone so far as to say that he absolutely
dislikes him, but I feel sure he does."

As soon as the breakfast things were
removed and washed up, it was time to
go out on the wharf and hand Freddie
to Bramwell. This was now so well-established

a custom that it created Httle
excitement even in Freddie's mind. At
about half-past ten Bramwell pushed the
floating stage across the bay, went over,
said a few words to Hetty, took the .boy,
and returned with him. Then he hauled
the stage back to its moorings on the Ait,
put Freddie into the timber-yard, where
Frank was already, fastened the gate, and
went to his work in his study. At half-past
two he restored the boy to Hetty.
The Layardss breakfasted late, and had
not their midday meal till three. For
the convenience of the children, Bramwell
adopted the same hour for his midday
meal.

Mr. Bramwell," said Hetty that day as
she handed the boy to him, " I am sure I
do not know how we are to allow this to
continue longer. Freddie goes over to
you every day, and you will not let Frank

come over to us once even. I am afraid
either of us is selfish."

'' Selfish ? How, selfish ? " He smiled ashe
looked up from the stage into the girl's
face,

Well, we seem to give you all the
trouble of these two boys, which makes
us seem selfish in one way, and you seem
to wish to take all the trouble of them,
which is selfish in another way. I am
afraid we are both very bad. I give you
one more chance'' she said, shaking a
warning finger at him. " To-morrow I am
going to a toy-shop a little bit down the
Welford Eoad, and I intend to take
Freddie with me to buy him a Noah's ark
in place of the one he lost "

The cat flew away with it and ate the
elephant and lion," said Freddie.

And, of course, Freddie can't ao
over "

Not even after dinner ? " cried the
boy.

No. Nor must you go over again
unless Frank is allowed to come with us
to the toy-shop."

I'll bring him," said the boy confidently.
" Frank will come with me. We'll
play Frank is a canal boat, and that I'm a
horse, and I'll tow him all the way."

But if his father won't give him leave ? "
said Hetty.

0, he'll come ! " said Freddie, wish
decision. "Frank always plays what I
ask him. And will you get a Noah's ark
for Frank too. Aunt Hetty ? "

Of course. Mr. Bramwell, you will
let the child come ? You will, won't you ?
She held both her hands out to him pleadingly.


His eyes were still upon her face. She
looked so bright and strong and full of

spirits, it appeared as though the touch
of her hand upon his boy must benefit
the child. He hesitated for a moment,
and said, " Very well, and thank you
heartily, Miss Layard," and so the interview
ended.

Bramwell carried the boy along the stage
and put him into the yard, where Frank
was impatiently waiting. Then he came
back, drew the stage to its position alongside
the islet, and moored it to the ring in
the ground. After this he went back to the
cottage and buried himself in his work.
Unless something unusual occurred in the
yard he mi^^ht count on three and a half
uninterrupted hours. From where he sat
he could hear the voices of the children at
play. If anything went amiss he would beat
once apprised by his ears.

As Hetty got into the small back hall
from which the door opened on the quay

there was a sound at the front-door. A
key had been thrust into the latch and was
being turned.

Alfred coming back for something he
has forgotten," thought Hetty, hurrying to
meet him.

The door swung open and Mr. William
Crawford pulled out his key, took off his
hat, and bowed.

Hetty stepped back with an exclamation
of surprise.

You are surprised to see me, Miss
Layard. Of course you are surprised ; but
I hope you are not displeased ? "

He bowed with grave deference to her.

Displeased ? " she said, with a gallant
attempt at a smile. "0, dear no! Why
should I be displeased ? When I heard the
key in the door I made sure it was my
brother coming back for something he had
forgotten ; and you know I had no reason

to expect you." She now smiled without
effort. She had recovered self-possession.
Will you come in here, or would you
prefer going to your own rooms ? "

I do not want to go to my own lair
to-day, Miss Layard," he said, as he followed
her into their own sitting-room. " In fact,
I am here by the merest accident, and I do
not know that you will not laugh at me
when I tell you why." He thought, " By
Jove ! what a contrast to some one in
Singleton Terrace, Richmond ! She is much
more lovely than I thought her. I never
saw her look so beautiful. Exquisite,
exquisite Hetty ! "

Why do you think I shall laugh ? " she
asked.

Because I came here owino^ to a dream
I had last nis^ht. A most horrible dream !
I am not superstitious, but this dream impressed
me." Crawford did not act on the

principle that all women are alike. He
always considered every woman who
interested him as a being the like of whom
he had never met before, one requiring
special study and special treatment. When
he wooed his wife he always kept before
him the idea that she was tender and
affectionate. Of Hetty he said to himself,
She is imaginative and ardent."

A dream ? It must have been a very
remarkable dream that made you come sofar."


Yes ; a most remarkable and unpleasant
dream. I thought in my sleep that
some one — I knew not whom at first — had
wandered out of the house through the
door on the Bay by night, and, turning to
the left, went near the open door of that
flooded ice-house. There are two doorways
to the ice-house and no door. I thought I
was standing at the further one from this.

VOL. II. 30

The figure drew close to the nearer doorway,
and T saw that the wanderer was a
somnambulist, and was quite unaware of
any danger. I thought I tried to cry out,
but could not utter a sound. I thought I
tried to rush forward, but could not move.
I was half mad with terror, for as the figure
drew near me I recognised who it was. The
figure kept on until it reached the raised
threshold of the ice-house. It stepped upon
the sill of the doorway, and all at once I
heard a scream and a splash ; and I looked
in and saw the figure struggling in the
water. I strove with all my might to wrest
myself free from the leaden weights that
held my feet. The face of the figure was
turned up to me, and I could see the
golden hair and the lovely cheek and the
wonderful blue eyes, and I heard a voice,
the sweetest and dearest voice I ever heard,
cry out in agony, ' Save me ! Save me ! 0,

Mr. Crawford, won't you try to save me ? '
and T wrenched and struggled, and at last I
tore myself free, and with a great shout I
awoke, terrified and trembling, and in a
cold perspiration. And I could not sleep
again."

What a horrible dream ! " cried the
girl, with blanched face and eyes wide
open with dismay.

"It was terrible, indeed. But, Miss
Layard, all I have told you was to me
nothing compared with what I have yet to
tell."

She drew back trembling, and feeling
faint.

Do you know who the drowning person
that I could not succour was ? "

No," whispered the girl.

"You."

"I?"

*' Yes ; you ! "

30—2

The gir] drew back another pace, and
shuddered ; she seemed about to faint.

It was your face I saw, and you were
in peril of death ; and I — I was looking on
and could not help you. Great heavens !
fancy my finding you in want of aid in my
view, and I not able to help you ! All the
horrible dreams of my life put together
would not equal the anguish, the insupportable
agony, of that."

He took out his handkerchief, breathed
heavily — as though the memory of his
nightmare was almost as bad as the nightmare
itself — and then wiped his forehead
laboriously with the handkerchief. After
this he sat for a while, leaning back in his
chair with a hand resting on each knee, as
though to recover himself. In a few
seconds he rose with the affectation of an
affected briskness, intended to convey that
he was struggling against emotions that

overcame him. He said, with a wan
smile :

So I came straight here to have doors
put on those hateful doorways. I knew
you would laugh at me."

Indeed, I do not laugh at you ! That
dream was enough to upset any one."

He shook his head, conveying by the
shaking of his head and the expression of
his face the idea that, great as might be
her power of realising his sufferings, they
were infinitely greater than she could
imagine.

Then he shook the whole of his body to
rouse himself out of his lethargy, and
establish himself in her mind as a man of
action. He begged of her to get him a
piece of string, and when she had found
him some he asked her to favour him by
accompanying him to the ice-house, and aid
him in taking measurements for the doors

to block up the yawning death traps, ashe
called the doorways.

He could not reach the lintel of the doors
without something on which to stand. He
asked her to hold the string for him till he
came back, and went to the kitchen and
fetched a chair. He mounted on the chair,
and asked her to draw the string taut to
the ground, and knot the point at which
the string touched the raised threshold.

There were double doors here once,
but single doors will do now," he said.

When he had completed his measurement
he said :

"I shall go from this to the carpenter
and leave orders for the doors. I shall
come back in a week to see them put
up."

For a few minutes he seemed to fall into
a profound reverie, and then, waking up all
at once, looked at her with eyes full of

terror, and, pointing into the flooded ice-house,
said hoarsely :

Hetty, it was in there I saw you drowning
! Do you know what that sight meant
to me, girl ? " He bent close to Tier ear and
answered his own question in a whisper :

'madness! "

Then, without another word, he hurried
away, leaving her amazed, breathless, not
knowing what to think of him, and all he
had been saying, and not able to thhik o\
anything else.

MAN OVERBOARD ! "

When Hetty recovered from the astonishment
into which Mr. William Crawford's
words and manner had cast her, the first
fact which struck her memory was that he
had called her Hetty. That might, no
doubt, be excused in a man of his time of
life to a girl of hers (she considered his
thirty-six years entitled him to be considered
quite middle-aged). But she would
have felt more comfortable if the question
had not been raised at all. It was, she
urged in mitigation, to be taken into
account that he spoke under great excitement
and in haste. But, after all, the
thing was not worth a moment's thought.

There was, however, a fact worth considering.
This man, sleeping or waking,
did seem to have a special care of the lives
of others. Had he not rescued his wife
from fire ? — and here now was this dream,
this dreadful dream about the odious old
ice-house. No doubt some men were born
with a natural taste for encountering risks,
but her inclination did not lead her to
plunge into burning houses or flooded ice-houses.
For her part she would rather runaway
twenty miles.

And then what were these words he hS-d
said about herself? Now that they came
back to her they seemed foolish, impertinent,
and she ouo^ht to have been auOTv
with him for laughing at her. But no ; he
had not been laughing at her. He could
not laugh at anything on earth after having
such an awful dream, and no doubt what
he had said of herself was only his exagge -

rated way of describing how terribly hard
he had wanted to save the drowning
woman. But there was no person really
drowning, and it would be nonsense not to
forget the whole interview with him.

Yet it could hardly be got rid of in that
way, for how would Alfred take it ? The
whole affair was very provoking and
horrible, and she felt disposed to cry.
Perhaps Alfred was right in his first estimate
of Crawford, and he was a little mad.

Yes, clearly the man ought to be in a
lunatic asylum, and not allowed to go
about the country dreaming and terrifying
people.

She had no doubt that in a few minutes a
procession of men, carrying planks on their
shoulders and bags of tools in their hands,
would arrive and make the place unbearable
with noise and chips.

Hetty would have made her mind quite

easy on the last score if she could have
seen into the mind of William Crawford ashe
left the door. For he had no more
notion of going to any carpenter that day
about the job than he had of flinging himself
off Welford Bridge into the South London
Canal. What he did intend doing was, to
come back in a week and say he found the
wretched carpenters to whom he had given
the order had wholly misunderstood him
and botched the job. This would be
economical as far as the doors were concerned,
and would give him another interview
with Hetty.

He had no notion of keeping his promise
to his wife either. What could be easier
and more pleasant than to enjoy a few
hours' freedom in town, and tell her on
his return to Eichmond that the difficulties
to be overcome at the ice-house were much
greater than he had anticipated, and that

he had been most grievously delayed against
his will.

From a map he had discovered, since his
former visit, that he could come or go by
water. At the end of one of the Pine
Groves lay the Mercantile Pier, and Crawford
turned in that direction, resolved to
get to town by river.

It pleased him to know that there were
two ways of approaching his office, and the
line from Crawford's House to the Mercantile
Pier was directly away from Camberwell,
whereas the route by road was only
at right angles to it.

"I think what I said to Hetty must
create some effect," he thought, as he
walked with brisk footstep and alert body.
"It did all I intended anyway. She may,
when she gets over her surprise, be either
pleased or indignant ; but she cannot Ije
indifferent, she is too imaginative for that "

He passed by the Neptune public-house,
and entered the Pine Grove leading to the
Mercantile Pier. He had no need to ask
his way : he carried the map of the place
in his head.

Here on either side of him rose the tall
black palings. The path between them
was only a footway, and wound along
sinuously for half a mile between the great
docks on either side. The path bent so
acutely that it was impossible to see further
than a hundred yards before or behind. *

To Crawford, who was always expecting
to find Philip Pay spring forth, feel a burning
sting, hear a report, and know that
vengeance had overtaken him at last, this
characteristic had one great advantage : it
left both his sides protected. He could be
approached only from the front or rear.

The place was very secret and retired.
There was not a sound beyond the far-oil

lum of the city. Spying through the
chinks in the palings one could see nothing
but broken dark grey ground littered withall
kinds of odds and ends of timber and
metal objects, looking as dreary and deserted
and forlorn as a locked-up and
deserted graveyard. Overhead spread the
faint blue sky, with the sun behind a dull
grey cloud, and above the paling to right
and left, and, as it were, rising from hulls
lying far off inland, the lofty motionless
spars of great ships in the stillness of the
upper air.

From the time Crawford entered the Pine
Grove until he had got more than half-way
through he encountered no one. Then all
at once he became aware that he was
gradually overtaking a woman who was
walking in front, and that footsteps which
he had heard for some time behind him
were gradually gaining upon him.

With him every unknown woman was
an object of curiosity : every unknown man
Philip Eay. The woman in front was
poorly clad, and walked with lagging step
and dejected head. She did not promise to
interest him. He turned round. The man
was not Philip Eay. Without further
thought of either he continued his
walk.

Presently the man was level with him,
and said, " Beg pardon, sir, but I saw you
pass the Neptune, and I thought Pd ask
you if you had any odd job hereabout on
your property."

Crawford started and looked sharply at
the man out of his dark furtive eyes. The
speaker he recognised as the man who had
acted as his guide, and explained to him
the means of Philip Pay's mysterious disappearance
from the tow-path.

No," he said sharply, " I have no job,"

and turned away to show he did not wish
to be spoken to again.

Perhaps, sir, you don't know the stage
is off?"

What ! " cried Crawford, stopping and
confronting the man. " What do you mean
by the stage being off ? " He remembered
that Eed Jim had told him about the
floating stage at Boland's Ait. Could it be
that the floating[ bridge had been removed,
and that Eay's visits to the islet and its
idiotic owner had ceased ? or that the
owner had taken himself away ?

Jim pointed down the Grove. " The
stage that goes from the land to the pier
had to be taken away for repairs, and you
have to get from the shore to the pier in a
small boat, and when the tide is low, as it
is now, you have to go down a long ladder
so as to get to the bed of the river, and
from the bed of the river to the small boat ;

and people with plenty of money don't
care about doing that. So when I saw
you turn into the Grove I thought I'd
come and tell you, as I felt sure if you
knew you wouldn't think of going by
boat, and I remembered you gave me two
tanners a fortnight ago."

Then I won't give you anything now,"
said Crawford sharply, as he resumed his
way. His anger had been aroused by the
hopes raised and cast down by Eed Jim's
two speeches about the stage.

Not as much as a tanner ? "

Not as much as half a farthing. I
made a very bad bargain the last time, and
this must be given in with what you did
before. Besides, this is no use to me, for I
intend going by boat all the same. Good-day.
If you beg again I shall call the
police."

The man abated his pace with a male-vol.

II. 31

diction, and Crawford went on, Eed Jim
following him slowly, cursing his own luck.

The delay caused by the dialogue with
Eed Jim had given the woman a good start,
and by the time Crawford reached the head
of the ladder the woman was in the act of
being handed into the small boat.

When Crawford looked down he was very
sorry he had not given Eed Jim sixpence
for his news and advice, and gone back by
land. But it was too late to retrace his
steps. He felt a dogged determination not
to give Jim anything or be jeered at by
him.

Half the descent was easy enough, as it
was by rude wooden stairs ; but the other
half had to be accomplished by means of a
broad ladder of very muddy, slippery, and
rotten looking steps. The foreshore, too.
looked muddy, slimy, uninviting, and here
and there was steaming in an unpleasant

manner under the influence of the sun, now
shining clearly between vast plains of pale
grey clouds.

Crawford hated boats for two reasons.
First, he couldn't pull ; and, second, he
always felt nervous in them, and he could
not swim.

However, there was not much time
for liking or disliking, for the men in the
small boat beckoned him to come on.
There were already m the boat the crew of
two men, the woman who had preceded
him down the lane, and six other women.

With repugnance he descended to the
foreshore, and with repugnance and difficulty
got into the boat. All the passengers
except one were aft.

Crawford took a seat on the starboard

side, next to the woman who had preceded

him down the Grove.

She took no notice of his coming aboard.

31—2

She appeared unconscious of everything
round her. She wore a thick black veil,
and kept her head bowed upon her chest,
giving him the idea that she suffered from
some deformity, or disease, or dire calamity.
She clasped her elbow in one hand, her arm
across her chest, and her other hand
across her eyes. The moment she entered
the boat she had assumed this posture,
and had not moved since.

Her attitude was the result of two causes :
her eyes were weak from recent illness, and
she was suffering from incurable sorrows.

Her clothes were worn and betokened
poverty, her purse penury. Under her thin
frayed dress her shoulders bore marks of
recent scratches ; under the bosom of her
dress her heart bore open wounds of anguish.
She was on her way to a free hospital
about her eyes.

Disease had lately threatened her life, but

even Death refused to have her. At what
she believed to be her last hour she provided
for her only child, the apple of her
eye, her solitary joy, by placing him in
safety, but beyond the power of a recalling
cry from her lips. She had then put aside
money for her sepulchre.

Death had disdained her, and she was
now wandering about alone with the vast
world as a tomb and a solitude, and a
broken heart and the fate of an outcast,
and the undying gnawing remorse for company,
with for the sustentation of her living
body the money she had devised for its
decay. An illness had taken avv^ay her
voice, which was her bread.

Just as the boat shoved ofl, Ked Jim
reached the head of the stairs, and stood
there regarding the progress of his patron.
He noticed that the ebb tide was running
very fast, and that the men kept the boat

heading a little up-stream to make allowance
for leeway. He noticed that Crawford
was the last passenger on the starboard
side, and that, therefore, he would be on
the inside when the boat got alongside.
I hope," thought Eed Jim, " that there's
some nice fresh paint or a nice long nail
waiting for him when he's going up the
side."

He saw the boat touch the side, and
Crawford stagger instantly to his feet. He
saw him sway to and fro, and then suddenly
fall back against the hulk, boom the
boat off with his legs, and drop overboard
between the boat and the hulk.

Eed Jim uttered a loud shout of triumph,
and then began shouting and dancing like
mad for joy.

He'll shoot in under the hulk and be
drowned ! " cried Red Jim exultingly.

Then an oath ;

That woman's got him ! "

"Catch him! Hold him!" cried the
boatmen. " Hold on for your life or he'll
be sucked under ! "

The veiled woman had seized the sinking
man and thrown herself on her knees — was
holding on with all the power of her enfeebled
arms.

Trim the boat ! Trim the boat,

you, or she'll capsize! On deck there!"
shouted the boatman to the hulk.

By this time aid had come from the
deck, and the submerged man had been
seized by the hooks and had hold of a line.
Up to this the boatmen had been completely
powerless, for all the women had
crowded to the starboard side, and bore
down the boat's gunwale until it washed
level with the water, and if the men attempted
to get near the starboard side aft
the boat must have gone over at once.

And now the passengers went on board
the hulk.

When the woman who had saved him
was relieved of his weight, she gave a loud
cry, and fell back fainting in the boat.

REWARD FOR A LIFE.

Two men came down from deck and carried
the fainting woman up, and brought
her into the pier-master's little room, and
left her to the kindly offices of some sympathetic
women ; while the two boatmen
dragged the half stunned, half drowned
Crawford out of the river over the stern of
the boat, and then, after allowing some of
the water to run out of his clothes, helped
him up the accommodation-ladder to the
deck of the hulk.

Here men squeezed his clothes and
rubbed him down, and told him how
thankful he ought to be that he had not been
drowned, as he was within an ace of he'mrr

drawn under the hulk, and if once that
had happened his chance of ever seeing
daylight again would have been small
indeed. Was he a good swimmer?

No, he could not swim a yard.

Well, then, he had better for the future
keep out of the water. Yes, of course he
had lost his hat ; but a sour-wester of the
pierian's was at his service temporarily.
No? He wouldn't have it? Very welL
Better any day lose one's hat than one's
life. He was very wet indeed ; but, then,,
when a man has been in the river one must
expect to turn out wet upon fetching port.

Why had his position been so very
dangerous? Was it more dangerous than
that of a man falling overboard under
ordinary circumstances ?

A thousand times. For he had fallen
against the hulk and boomed off the boat,
and in booming her off his back had slid

down the side of the hulk until his heels
were higher than his head, and as he left the
boat his heels, driven by the force of the
tide on the sheer of the boat, would thrust
him inward and downwards and so under
the bottom of the hulk, and then good-bye
to him, particularly as he could not swim.

And how then came he to be saved?

Why, by the woman laying hold of him
just as he slipped out, and sticking to him ;
for, owing to the list to starboard the
passengers gave the boat, the boatmen
durst not move, or she'd capsize for certain.

The woman laying hold of him ? It was
all dark to him.

Of course it was all dark to him, and a
good job it had ever come light to him
again. Why, the woman who had sat
beside him ! A poor sorrowful-looking
creature, who wore a veil and kept her
hands across her eves.

He had noticed her. And where was she
now?

In the master's room in a dead faint.
She had fainted the moment they told her
she might let him go. She looked a poor
soul that had had her troubles, and if he
thought well of doing such a thing, perhaps
he might do worse than give her a trifle byway
of reward.

A trifle ! A trifle for saving his life !
He could and he would reward her most
handsomely. Had she recovered yet ?

It was believed not. And now they had
squeezed all they could out of him — unless
he'd like to give them something for their
trouble, for they had to go back at once.

He handed a wet and clammy five-pound
note to be divided as they thought best
among themselves.

He was generous, for had not a great life
been at stake ?

Was he going ashore, or going on ? He
had better get dry clothes.

He should stay until that woman was
well enough to receive the reward for
the great services she had rendered
him.

The boatmen descended the ,
and Crawford, partly to keep
off a chill and partly to prevent the people
on the pier from accosting him, began
walking up and down the deck at a brisk
rate.

He had two reasons for not going to
Welford for dry clothes. First, he did
not wish to weaken the effect of his visit
and words of that morning by so early
a reappearance ; and second, he did not
care to present himself to Hetty in his
miserable and undignified plight.

When he had money he liked carrying
large sums about with him, for he never

felt so sure of the possession of it as when
he could tap a pocket-book containing a
sheaf of notes.

He made up his mind to give this woman
fifty pounds, for had she not done him
the greatest service any man, woman or
child ever performed towards him? had
she not saved his life, and was she not
worthy of the highest reward he could
pay ? He had no more than fifty pounds
and some broken money.

In a few minutes the pier-master, who
had heard him speak of the reward, came
and said the poor woman had fully recovered,
and asked if Crawford would wish
to see her.

By all means. I must get these wet
clothes off as soon as possible. When is
the next boat up ? "

In about five or ten minutes." The
pier-master moved off, and returned immediately

to say the woman was ready and
willing to receive him. Adding, "It's a
kind of thing we'd like to see done, as we
saw her save your life, and know you are
open-handed and have a good heart ; but
she says she'd rather there was only you
two."

Alone ! " said Crawford in a tone of
surprise. " It is a kind of thing generally
done openly. Did you tell her I wished
to give her a reward ? "

'• Yes, sir. She said you would know
before you left her why she preferred no'
one should be present."

'well," said Crawford, who felt that
this was an attempt to keep the generosity
of his gift from the eyes of others, " I
am going to give her these five tenners."
He held out the notes in his hand and
turned them over, and then, still keeping
them in his hand lest some one might suspect

a trick, stepped into the pier-master's
private room or cabin.

It was a very tiny room, with a small
table in the middle, a writing-table in one
of the two windows, and three chairs.
There seemed to be no space for moving
about. Even if the chairs were out of
the way, two people could not walk abreast
round the centre table.

Standing with her back to the second
window Crawford found the woman who
had saved his life less than half-an-hour
ago. Her veil, which had been disarranged
in the struggle, was now close drawn.

With the notes in one hand and holding
out the other to grasp hers in his gratitude,
he was about to advance, when she
held up her hand and said in a hoarse
dull voice, "No nearer. I have been
very ill. It is safer our hands should not
meet."

He sprang back as far as the walls would
allow. He had the most intense horror
of contagious diseases. He was now in
the most fervent haste to bring the interview
to an end. He would freely have
given another fifty to be out of that
room.

'' I merely wished to thank you from the
bottom of my heart for the noble manner
in which you snatched my life from death,
to osier you this fifty pounds as a small token
of the esteem in which I hold the services
you have rendered me ; " he shook the
notes, but did not advance his hand any
nearer to the centre of contagion ; " and
to say that my everlasting gratitude must
be yours." He could always make a
little speech.

"There was a time," she said in her

peculiar hoarse, dull voice, " when I should

have been very glad to take those fifty
VOL. n. 32

pounds — ay, as many shillings — from you,
but I cannot take them now."

There was a time ! " said he, surprised,
and interested notwithstanding his fear of
disease ; " surely I could not have had the
privilege of offering them to you longer ago
than an hour."

You could," she said, " and you ought."
May I asks" said he, fairly carried away
by curiosity, " if the disease of which you
speak was of a nervous character."
You mean, was my mind affected ? "
"Yes, if you choose to put it that
way?"

"It was, but unfortunately I have not
been in any asylum; even the grave that
they told me was gaping for me closed of its
own accord. It was the last door open tome,
and it is shut now."

But if your disease was mental, I cannot
understand why we might not shake hands ;

why I might not shake the hand of my
rescuer."

"Because she could not touch yours.
It is in your hand the contamination
lies."

Poor creature ! " he thought, " mad ! —
quite mad ! To say such a thing of me, who
am never ill — of the soundest man in
London ! I, who take such care not to be
ill ! " He laughed one of his short sharp
laughs, and said aloud, " Contagion in my
hand ! And who am I ? "

I do not know who you are now At
the emphasised word he sprang into the air
off the ground as though he had been shot,
and then took a pace towards her, and
paused and looked furtively at the door.
Was she, too, armed ?

She also took a pace forward. They were
not now two yards apart. With a scornful
gesture she tore the veil from before her face

and, looking into his, cried, "And who
am ir'

The face was haggard and blotched.

He sprang back against the wall, crying :

"Good heavens, Kate, this is not you!"

Yes, this is Kate. I saved your life
to-day, and you offer me fifty pounds. How
glad I should have been to get as many
shillings when you left me and my child to
starve in America ! I saved your life to-day,
and you offer me a reward. I will take
it "

He held out the notes to her.

She pushed his hand aside with a laugh.

"The reward I want you to give me
cannot be bought for money — not even for
your splendid fifty pounds. I saved your
life to-day ; give me for reward my husband
and my child, and my innocence. It is a
fair demand. You cannot give me less,
John Ainsworth."

She thrust her hand suddenly into her
pocket.

She is armed ! " he cried, and, bursting
from the room, he leaped aboard a steamer
then a foot from the pier on its way up to
London.

END OF VOL. II.

KELLY AND CO., MIDDLE MILL, KINGSTON-ON-THAMES;

AND GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS, W.C.

W-iA-(^'<«'fi44^^>'h>f'¥^>

mm

'?m

^l)oir)0S • ^pi^up • J©r)es.

What is a man
If his chief good and market of his time
Be but to sleep and feed ? A beast, no more.

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS


y3

MIRACLE Cold. 3 vols. 31/6.
THE MYSTERY OF KILLARD. 3/6.
FATAL BONDS. 3 vols. 31/6.
THE DUKE'S SWEETHEART 3s.
UNDER ST. PAUL'S. 2s.
THE SKELETON KEY. Is.

MR. DOWLING'S ESSAYS.

INDOLENT ESSAYS. 6s.
IGNORANT ESSAYS. 5s.

WARD & DOWNEY, PUBLISHERS, LONDON.

Jl ilotjcl.

Richard DOWLING,

AUTHOR OF

THE Mystery OF KILLARl)," "THE DUKE's SWEETHEART,"
UNDER ST. PAUL'S," '' MIRACLE GOLD," ETC,

m THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

WARD AND DOWNEY,

12, YORK STREET, CO VENT GARDEN, LONDON, W.C.
1889.

KELLY AND CO., MIDDLE MILL, KINGSTON-ON-THAMES ;

AND GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS, W.C.

Discontents



CHAP. PAGE

I. — A New Visitor at Crawford's House . . 1

II.— A Bridge op Sighs . . . . 19

III. — A Last Resolve . . . . .35

IV. — William Crawford's Luck . 47

V. — An Intruder upon the Ait . . .60

VI. — Hetty's Visit to the Ait . 69

VII. — By the Boy's Bedside . . . .86

VIII. — Bramwell finds a Sister . . . 102

IX. — '-I must go to fetch her Home" . . 116

X.— Crawford's Plans for the Future . . 134

XI.— Husband and Wife 145

XII-tea at Crawford's House . . . 155

XIII. — Crawford Writes Home 169

XIV.— William Craavpord Free . . . 189

XV.— Crawford is Sleepless 212

XVI.— Crawford Sleeps 233

^c^

Chapter I.

A NEW VISITOR AT CRAWFORD's HOUSE.

When Eed Jim saw Crawford hauled out

of the water and aided up the side of the

hulk his interest in maritime affairs was

over. He had gone down to the end of

the Pine Grove in the hope that Crawford

would change his mind, and adopt the land

route when he saw how uninviting the

means of getting to the steamboat looked.

In case Crawford came back he might

fairly count on getting sixpence, surly as

the other had been to him. But now there

was no chance of anything good, not even of

Crawford being drowned. Eed Jim looked
VOL. III. 33

up at the sky as though reproaching heaven
with doing him ill-turns, faced right
about, and began retracing his fruitless
steps.

As he walked he reflected that it was not
every day one saw a gentleman fall into
the river and rescued. He had seen this
sight to-day, and, moreover, as far as the
shore w-as concerned, he had had the
monopoly of the spectacle. Then after a
long pause he asked himself was it not
possible to convert his unique position into
a little money?

Once more he turned those vacant blue
eyes of his up to the sky, not this time,
however, in reproach, but in appeal for
light.

Suddenly he shook his head with the
quick short jerk of determination, and
quickened his pace. '*Wliy, of course,"
he said out loud. "I'll go to Crawford's

House and tell them about it, and they'll
give me a tanner for my kindness." So he
hastened along until he arrived . at the
shabby green door, and then he knocked.
Hetty opened the door, and seeing a
strange man, who looked as though he had
a right to come there, concluded he had
called about the ice-house. "0!" said
she, " you've called about those gates,
have you ? "

Hallo ! " thought Jim, " there may be
another tanner in this. Let's see." All
Jim's thoughts ran on tanners. A shilling
was two tanners, half-a-crown five, a sovereign
ever so many. In the case between
him and the young lady at the door caution
was the great thing. He must take care
not to commit himself. So he said nothing,
but looked round as though in search of
the gates.

Come this way," said Hetty, observing

33—2

the glance of search, " and I will show you
the place."

Yes, ma'am," said Eed Jim, entering
the house and following Hetty through it
to the little quay beyond.
" These are the doorways that Mr. Crawford
wishes to have boarded up," said
Hetty, pronouncing the name with an
effort, for she was still in tumult and perplexity
about his visit and words.

"Yes, ma'am," said Eed Jim with
extreme deference, and looking full at her
with his wide, open expressionless blue
eyes, but moving no muscle, showing no
sign of taking action.

The girl was highly strung, and his
impassive stolidity irritated her.

Well, what are you going to do ? "
she asked briskly.

Whatever you like, ma'am," he answered
with gallantry and impartiality.

Whatever / like ! " she cried impatiently.
" I have nothing to do with it.
What did Mr. Crawford say to you about
this place. There can be no mistake, I
suppose — you saw him to-day ? "

I did."

"And what did he say to you about
this ? " pointing to the gaping gateway.

Nothing."

The girl stared at him in angry surprise.
" Then why did you come here ! "

To tell you, ma'am, that Mr. Crawford
fell in the river. I thought you'd
like to know that."

Mr. Crawford fell into the river ! You
thought / would like to know that ! What
do you mean ? " Hetty was beginning
to get confused and a little frightened.
There was first of all Crawford's visit, then
his account of his horrible dream of her
drowning, then his strange, impudent

words to her ; now came this dreadful-looking
man to say that Crawford had
fallen into the river, and, last of all, she
would be glad to hear he had fallen into
the river ? " Why do you think I would
be glad to hear that Mr. Crawford fell
into the river ? "

"Well, he lives here, and when people
fall into the river the folk they live with
are mostly glad to hear of it."

"0," thought the girl, with a feeling of
relief at finding that no mysterious net
was closing round her, " so you only came
to tell me the news ? '*

"And to tell you more news."

"What is it?"

That he was got out again."

Of course."

But you didn't know until I told
you."

Certainly I did. li he hadn't been

taken out you would have said he was
drowned."

This was a sore blow to Eed Jim. It
had occurred to him as a brilliant idea
to split up his news into two parts. First,
that Crawford had fallen in ; second, that
Crawford had been dragged out. He had
a vague hope that, treated in this way,
the news might be worth two tanners,
as it consisted of two items. It now
occurred to him that in future he ought
to say a man was drowned, get his
reward, and then, as a second item, say
that it had been for a long time believed
he was drowned, but that it was at last
found out he wasn't. In the present case,
however, he thought he had better make
the best of things as they were. He told
her then exactly what had happened as
far as he had been able to see, and assured
her he had run every step of the

way and was mortal dry, and he hoped
she'd consider his trouble and good intentions.


She gave him sixpence.
And how much this job, ma'am ? " he
asked, pointing to the gateways.

I have nothing to do with that. When
you knocked I thought Mr. Crawford had
sent you."

Well, he as good as sent me. Only he
fell in, I'd never have come here."

But you have done nothing, and you
are to do nothing, and I have nothing todo
with it," said the girl, a little apprehensively.
They were alone on the quay at
the back of the house, and there was not a
soul in the house but herself and this
ragged, rugged, red-bearded, rusty-necked
man, who was asking her for money he
had no claim to, and asking her for it on,
no doubt, the knowledge of their isolation.

There's my time, though, ma'am," said
Eed Jim firmly. " You call me in, and you
say there's the gate, and I do all I can for

you."

But you have done nothing at all.
Why should I pay you for doing nothing ?
I thought you were Mr. Crawford's man."

The girl was now becoming fairly alarmed.
Suppose this horrible man should become
violent 7

Some one must pay me for my ting,
ma'am. I'm only a poor labouring man
trying to earn his bread, and if people go
and take up my time, how am I to earn my
bread by the sweat of my brow, or any
other way ? That's what I want to know."

He stood in front of her : between her
and the door of the house.

The girl now became fairly frightened.
She was by no means timid by nature.
But here was she hidden from the view of

any one, alone with this rugged, threatening,
desperate man. No one on the tow-path
could see them, because Boland's Ait
intervened. Worst of all, she had not
any money. The sixpence she had given
him was the last coin in her possession ;
still, she tried to look brave.

If you want any money for this job as
you call it, go to Mr. Crawford for it."

How do T know where to find Mr.
Crawford ? "

He lives at Eichmond."

He lives here, and my principle is cash
no tick. A nice thing, indeed, to expect
a poor labouring man to give his time and
anxiety of mind to jobs, and then tell him
to go to Eichmond for his money ! Is that
justice or fair-play?"

Well, I tell sou that you must go to
him. I have no money." She was beginning
to feel faint and sfiddv.

No money, and live in a house like
that I " he cried, pointing up to the old
dilapidated habitation to which the late
owner of the place had given his name.
*' Why, how could any one keep up a house
like that without lots of money ? "

Eed Jim's notion of the probable financial
result of this interview had enlarged
considerably since it had begun. He had
talked himself into the conviction that he
had an honest claim for compensation for
loss of time, and he saw that they were ina
lonely place, that this girl was frightened,
and that there was no succour for her near
at hand. He now put down the result
of his inspection of the ice-house at four
tanners.

I tell you I have no money," she repeated,
feeling sick, " and sou must go
away at once."

Look here, ma'am ; what am I going todo

with the rest of my day if I get nothing
for this ? " He hadn't done a day's work for
months. " The rest of my day is no sort of
use to me. I own I haven't been here half
a day, but half a day is gone, all the same,
and I couldn't think of taking less than
two shillings ; it's against the rules of my
Society to take less than two shillings for
half a day, anyhow."

I tell you once for all, I have no
money."

She began to tremble. She had never
before been in such an alarming situation
as this. She was afraid to threaten
lest he should at once seize her and fling
her headlong into the ice-house, when there
would be no William Crawford or anybody
else to rescue her. She could have borne
the thought of death with comparative
fortitude, but the girl's dainty senses revolted
from the notion of contact with this

foul and hideous being. She felt that if he
touched her she should die.

Nice thing for you to say ! " cried the
man angrily. " Take a poor man in here
and steal — yes, steal — half a day from him,
and then say you have no money ! '*

Up to this he had been importunate,
then angry, but he had not threatened.
Now he advanced a step, and, shaking his
fist at her, said:

Look here, if you don't just pay me
what you owe me I'll "

The girl screamed, and at the same time,
as if by magic, Eed Jim disappeared from
her sight.

She looked down.

Eed Jim was rolling and writhing on
the ground, felled by a blow from
behind.

She looked up. Francis Bramwell stood
before her, pallid with indignation.

This blackguard has been annoying
you, Miss Layard," said he, spurning the
prostrate man with his foot.

0, thank you, Mr. Bramwell ! I thought
he was iroini]^ to kill me."

I came out to fetch Freddie back, ?jut
found it wasn't quite time, and then I heard
sour voice and this wretch's angry words,
and came round and crossed. He hasn't
touched you?" asked Bramwell fiercely
The whole man was roused now, and he
looked large in stature and irresistible inforce.


0, no ! He has not touched me, but
he threatened me, and I felt as though
I should die."

What shall I do with him. Give him
to the police ? "

Don't do that, guv'nor," said the prostrate
man. He had made no attempt to
rise. He did not want to have his other

ear deaf and the inside of his head at the
other side ringing like a sledge-bell. " Don't
do that, guv'nor, for they have something
against me about a trifle of canvas and a
few copper bolts I never had anything todo
with."

Very well. Now, Miss Layard, if you
will go into the house, I'll attend to this
gentleman. I shall take him across my
place to the tow-path, and then come back
to see how you are."

But you won't harm him, Mr. Bram-
well'' asked Hetty in a tremulous voice
as she moved away.

You hear what the lady says .^ " whined
Jim. " Good kind lady, don't go away
and leave me to him. He has half killed
me already, and if you leave me to him
he'll murder me. Do let me go through
your house. I was only joking. Indeed,
it was only a little joke, and I only went

on as I did to make your beautiful face
smile. That's all, indeed'*

"I promise you, Miss Layard, not to
]mrt him in the least. He shall be much
better off when he leaves me than he is
now."

Hetty went into the house.

He's going to pay me the half day's
wages," thought Jim, as at Bramwell's
bidding he rose from the ground and
crossed over to Boland's Ait. Bramwell
led the way to the canal side of the islet.

How much did you claim from that
lady ? " asked Bramwell, who knew nothing
of the justness of the demand.

Two shillings, fairly earned and fairly
due," answered Jim, his heart expanding
under the hope of tanners. " You will
not keep a poor working man out of his

own?

I'll pay you. But first you must

answer me one question : Can you swim ? "
He took a two-shilling piece out of his
pocket.

I can, sir," said Jim eagerly. " I can
do almost anything."

Bramwell flung the coin across the canal
to the tow-path, crying, " Then swim for
that."

"But, sir "

In you go, clothes and all, and if ever
I find you here again I'll hand you over to
your friends the police. Don't keep standing
there, or I'll heave you in. Do as you
are told, sir. The washing and cooling
will do you good."

And seeing there was no chance of

escape, and fearing some one might come

by and steal the coin, Eed Jim dived into

the dark turbid waters and crossed to the

opposite shore.

When Bramwell saw the man safely out
VOL. III. 34

of the canal he turned away, and, having
crossed by the stage, entered for the first
time Crawford's House — the house of the
man who had wrecked his home and his
happiness and his life three years before.

A BRIDGE OF SIGHS.

When Bramwell entered Crawford's House
the first sight that met his eyes was the
form of Hetty Layard lying prone on the
floor of the passage.

With a cry of dismay he sprang to her
and raised her. He looked round for help
and called out, but there was no succour
in sight ; no response came to his cry. He
took her up and carried her into the sitting-room,
and laid her on the couch.

I might have guessed she would faint,"
he moaned ; " and now what am I todo?"


There was water on the table laid for

dinner. He sprinkled some on her face.

34—2

"What am I to do ? Shall I run for
help ? " he cried, looking frantically round
the room.

At that moment there was the sound of
a latch-key in the door. Bramwell rushed
out eagerly into the passage, saying to
himself, " This must be either her brother
or Mr. Crawford ; Philip told me there are
only two keys'*

If instead of going up the river in the
steamboat Crawford had come back to
Welford, he would have arrived at about
this time.

The front door opened, and a man with a
remarkably long beard entered, and for an
instant stood looking in speechless amazement
at the other man.

My name is Bramwell. Your sister has
fainted. She is in the front room."

Fainted ! " cried Alfred Layard in alarm,
as he dashed past the other.

At that moment Hetty opened her eyes
and sighed.

Hetty, Hetty, dear Hetty ! what is
this ? What is the matter ? "

Bramwell remained in the passage. He
walked up and down in great agitation.

I don't know what happened," said the
girl, in a weak, tremulous voice.

Her brother got some wine, and made
her drink a little.

"Try and remember, dear," said Layard
with passionate tenderness. " Did any
accident occur? Drink just a little more.
Did you get a fright, dear ? Has anything
happened to the boy ? "

"No, Alfred. 0, I am better now. I
remember it all. A dreadful man terrified
me, and Mr. Bramwell came to my assistance,
and I ran into the house ; and I can
remember no more."

Bramwell, hearing voices, knew that

Hetty had recovered, and that he could
be of no further use ; so he stole quietly
out of the house, and returned to his own
island domain.

He did not seek the boys, who were
playing in the timber-yard that the old
barrow was a Punch-and-Judy show. He
took the canal side of the wharf, and began
pacing up and down hurriedly.

His condition was one of extreme
exaltation ; he knew not, inquired not, at
what. He trod the clouds, and surveyed
below his feet a subjugated and golden
world. The air was intoxication, and life
a dream of jocund day. He did not pause
to ask a reason for these feelings and
sensations. They were his ; that was
enough.

Of late the hideous gloom in which he
had lived for two years, a solitary upon
that lonely and unlovely islet, had been

leaving him as darkness leaves a hill at
the approach of day. Now from the
summit to the base, his nature seemed
bathed in an extraordinary midday splendour.
His soul was shining among the
stars. He was a blessed spirit amid the
angels. He was the theme to which all
the rest of the world answered in harmonious
parts.

It was not passion or love, but a
spiritual effulgence. It was like the elation
induced by a subtle perfume. He would
have been satisfied to be, and only to be,
if he might be thus. He was in clear
air at a stupendous height of happiness,
and yet did not feel giddy. He could
think of no higher earthly joy than he
experienced. It was a joy the very
essence of which seemed of the rapture
of heaven. It was a kind of ecstatic and
boundless worship from a self-conscious

and self-centred soul. It idealised the
world, and restored Paradise to earth.

In his mind was no thought, no defined
thought, of love for his beautiful neighbour,
Hetty Layard. He was in the
delicious spiritual experiences of that hour
merely celebrating his emancipation from
bondage. The note from Kate which had
come with Frank and the subsequent
announcement of Kate's death in the
newspapers had left him no room to doubt
that he was free. That day he had struck
a man an angry blow for the first time
in all his life. And he had struck that
blow in defence of this beautiful girl, who
was so good and so devoted to the little
orphan boy, the son of her brother. He
had an orphan boy too, and she was
very gentle to his son. He had known
for some time that he was a free man,
free to look upon the face of woman with

a view to choosing another wife ; but
until this day, until this hour, he had
not realised what this freedom meant.

The notion that he might take another
companion for life had not taken concrete
form since Frank's coming, and now the
only way in which it presented itself to
him was that he might smile back to
Hetty's smile, and glory in her beauty.

He was startled by hearing a voice
saying behind him, " Mr. Bramwell, I have
taken the liberty of coming over uninvited
to thank you from the bottom of my
heart for your timely and much-needed
aid to my sister."

Bramwell coloured, and became confused.
He was unaccustomed to new faces,
unaccustomed to thanks, unaccustomed to
pleasant thoughts of woman.

I — I did nothing," he said. " It was
merely by accident I knew about it."

To be thanked made him feel as though
he had done something shameful.

"However it happened," said Layard,
taking[ his hand in both his own and
shaking it cordially, " you have placed
me under a deep debt of gratitude to you."

If you do not wish to make me very
uncomfortable, you will not say another
word about it. I hope Miss Layard is
nothing the worse of the affair ? "

My sister is all right. Of course it
gave her an ugly turn. It isn't. a nice
place to encounter a bullying rowdy alone.
Since you ask me to say no more about
your share in the business, I shall be
dumb."

The two men were now walking up and
down side by side along the tiny quay of
the tiny islet.

A thin film of cloud dulled the glare of
the afternoon sun. The whole expanse of

heaven was radiant with diaphanous white
clouds ; a barge laden with wood indolently
glided by to the clank-clank of the horse's
hoofs on the tow-path ; the sounds from
Welford Bridge, which in the mornings
came sharp and clear, were now dulled by
the muffled hum of larger noises from afar.
There was an air of silence and solitude
over Boland's Ait. Notwithstanding the
griminess of the surroundings and the
dilapidation of the buildings on the holm,
there was an aspect of peace and retirement
in the place.

Hetty had not told her brother anything
of Crawford's visit save as much as was
necessary to explain the admission of Eed
Jim to the house and quay.

After a few sentences, Layard said, " You
must know, Mr. Bramwell, I don't think I
shall stay in this house a minute longer
than I can possibly help."

"Indeed!" said Bramwell, feeling as
though the sunlight from the sky had been
suddenly dulled, and the things upon which
his eyes fell had grown more squalid.

"To be candid with you, I don't care
about my landlord. He is, to say the least
of it, eccentric ; and after the affair of today
I shall never be easy. You see, the
house is quite isolated, and no one ever
by any chance passes the door."

It must be very lonely for Miss Layard,"
Bramwell said, forgetting in his sympathy
for the girl his own two years of absolute
seclusion.

"She says, and I believe her, that she
does not feel the want of company ; but
after to-day she will, I am afraid, dread the
place. Of course, I must get some person
to stay with her all the time I am out of
the house. Could any one have been more
helpless than lie was to-day ? "

What you say has a great deal of force
in it ; but," said he, trying to restore the
full complement of sunlight to the sky,
don't you think with a second person in
the house all would be safe ? "

Well, I should imagine so ; but one
does not like to be continually saying, ' allis
safe.' One likes to take it for granted,
as one takes the sufficiency of air or the
coming of daylight with the sun."

They walked for a few seconds in silence,
and then Bramwell said, " No barge ever
comes through the Bay now, but, owing
to my habit with the floating stage on the
canal, I moor the second stage to the Ait
every afternoon when Freddie has gone
home, and haul it across in the morning.
For the future I shall leave it across permanently,
so that Miss Layard may feel
I am as near to her as some one living
next door. I hope and trust, and believe,

she will never have any need of my help,
but it may give her a little confidence to
know that I can be with her instantly incase
of need."

"It is extremely kind of you to think
of that. It seems you are determined to
place me under obligations I can never
discharge. The worst of it is that when
I came over here I had it in my mind to
ask you a favour, and now you have
offered to do one unasked."

If what you came to ask is anything in
the world I can do, you may count on me,
Mr. Layard. For, remember, that although
this is the first time we have met, I am
quite well acquainted with you through
Philip Eay."

And I with you, through him also, or
I should not speak so freely."

Isn't Eay a fine fellow ? " asked Cromwell
enthusiastically.

"The finest fellow I know," answered
Layard cordially.

He is a little enthusiastic, or hotheaded,
or fierce, I know, but he will calm
down in years. Indeed, I find that of late
he is calming down a good deal. As I said
before, I treat you as an old friend. I
suppose I have been so long an eremite
that once I come forth and open my mouth
I shall never stop talking. What I have in
my mind about Philip, who was the only
friend of my solitude, is that if he got a
good sensible wife it would be the making
of him."

I have no doubt it would."

"But the worst of it is that I don't
think he ever once regarded one woman
with more favour than another. In fact, I
have always put him down as a man who
will never marry."

Indeed ! " said Layard. " I wonder

does Eay himself share that notion. If he
does, he is treating Hetty badly," he
thought.

And the pity of it is, that if he would
only marry he would make the best husband
in England."

It is indeed a pity," said Layard, but
he did not say what constituted the pity.
To himself, " I don't think anything has
been said between them yet, but it seems
to me Hetty or he will have some news
for me very soon." He said aloud,
"The little favour I told you I had to
ask "

Of course ; and I told you if it lay
within my power I'd do it."

Yes ; and it does lie easily within your
power, and I will take no excuse. Come
over and spend an hour with us this
evening."

But I cannot ! " cried Bramwell.

"But you must. We will take no
excuse."

He wavered. His views of all things had
greatly altered since he was first invited to
Crawford's House. " Still the boy. I cannot
leave him alone." He felt half inclined
to go.

The boy will not be alone. Why, now
that you have decided to leave the stage
across all night, your house and ours maybe
looked on as one."

What a pleasant fancy it was that Crawford's
House, where she lived, and Boland's
Ait, where he lived, might be looked on
as one !

n," went on Layard, " you are uneasy

about your boy, at any moment you can

run across and see him. You really have

no excuse. Our sons have been friends

some time, and now you have placed me

under a great obligation to you, and you
VOL. ni. 35

refuse to make the obligation greater. Is
that generous of you ? "

Bramwell smiled. "I am conquered,
fairly conquered."

Very well ; and mind, not later than
eight o'clock. Now, where's this young
savage of mine ? His aunt will imagine
you have sold the two of us into slavery."

A LAST Resolve;'

Good gracious, Mrs. Mellor, you don't
mean to say you have been to the hospital
and got back again since ! But
why do I say such a thing ? If
you had wings you couldn't do it," exclaimed
kind-hearted Mrs. Pemberton as
Kate Mellor walked into the greengrocer's
shop in Leeham, hard by Welford, the
same day William Crawford jumped
aboard the moving steamboat after his
immersion and scene with the invalid
woman at the Mercantile Pier.

"No," answered Mrs. Mellor wearily.
She did not remove her veil on entering
the shop. •'! hadn't the heart to go

'60—2

to-day. I got as far as the pier and then
turned back." She did not care to enter
into any further explanation.

Hadn't the heart, dear child ! And
why hadn't you the heart?" said the
sympathetic woman, raising her ponderous
bulk with deliberation from the chair,
and going quickly with outstretched hands
to her unfortunate lodger.

I didn't feel equal to it, and so I
came back."

Well, dear, if you didn't go to the
hospital I'm very glad you came back
here straight, for the house seems queer
and lonesome when you're not in it. You
don't feel any worse, do you, dear ? "

"No worse, thank you, Mrs. Pemberton,
but I think the heat tired me a
little, and that I'll go up and lie down
awhile."

The very best thing you could do,

dear. There's nothing to freshen you up
when you're hot and tired like a nice
quiet rest in a cool room ; and the
sun is off your room now. I was just
saying to Mrs. Pearse here, that I was
sure you'd come in half-dead of the heat.
Is there anything I could get you, dear,
before you he down ? "

"No, thank you, Mrs. Pemberton," and
Kate Mellor passed out of the shop and
up to her bedroom on the first floor.

That's just the way with her always""
said Mrs. Pemberton to Mrs. Pearse
She never complains of anything but
beg tired, and she never wants anything.
If ever there was a broken heart
in this world it's hers. She has said tome
over and over again it was a mistake
that she recovered. What makes me so
uneasy about her is that I am afraid her
money won't last her much longer, and

that when it's gone she'll run away.
Though, goodness knows, she's welcome
to stay as long as she likes, for she's a
real lady, and it's almost as easy to keep
two as one, particularly as she isn't a
bit particular about what she eats or
drinks ; and I don't want to let her room
unless I could get some one as nice as
she, and I'd go far before I could find
her equal"

"The loss of the child is preying upon
her mind," said Mrs. Pearse. " I remember
when I lost my little Ted, I thought I
should never be able to lift my head
again."

Ah, but you lost your little Ted in a
natural though a sad way ; but poor Mrs.
Mellor lost her boy by an accident, as it
were, and by her own act, too. You know,
she is very close, and although she's as
friendly as can be, she never says anything

about the past. Whoever she sent the boy
to will not give him back to her again."

And you don't know to what person
she sent the child?"

He went first to Boland's Ait, but
of course not to stop there. Why, there's
no woman on the Ait to look after a
child. The boy must be gone to some of
his father's people. 0, it's a sad, sad case !
and I have a feeling — you can't help your
feelings — that she's not long for this world,
poor thing ; and it breaks my heart to
think of that, for I do love her as if she
was my own child, though it was never
given to me to know the feelings of a
mother. I expect that private detective
knew all about the case."

Meanwhile Kate Mellor had taken off her
bonnet and cloak, and lain down on her
bed, to rest and think. Up to that day she
had lived hour by hour, since the loss of

lier boy and lier recovery, with no definite
purpose. At first lie had been too ill and
weak to consider her position or determine
upon any course of action. She had
drifted down to this hour without any
plan or purpose. She knew the law would
not enable her to recover her child, and
she felt certain that her husband would seethe
child dead rather than restored to her
arms. She had inserted the announcement
of her death partly that her husband
might not be fettered in anything he might
design for the welfare of their child by
considerations of her, and partly out of a
pathetic craving for pain and self-sacrifice.
She had bought the paper, and had cried a
score of times over the bald, cold intimation
that the world was over for her : for her
the once beautiful and beloved bride of
Frank Mellor, now the deserted, marred
outcast of shame. She had wept that she,

Kate Eay, Kate Mellor, was dead and
buried before thirty — when she was not
twenty-five. She had wept that she
was poor. She had wept that her voice,
her only means of earning a having, had
been destroyed. She had wept longest of
all that her beauty was gone from her forever.
Her beauty had been her greatest
gift, her greatest curse, and she wept for it
as though it had been an unmixed blessings.

Lying on her bed here to-day, she had
no tears to shed. The scene on the pier
had in some mysterious way calmed her
spirits. She had read the announcement
of her death in the paper, and now she
was dead in verity

Why should she live ? What had she
to live for? Everything woman could
hold dear was gone — husband, child, reputation,
beauty. In material affairs her
destitution could scarcely be greater than

it was at this moment. She had a little
money still left, but when that was gone
where should she find more ? He, the
betrayer, had been overjoyed to get his
life back from the jaws of death that day;
she, the victim, would enter those awful
jaws freely. But she must see her child,
her little Frank, the sweet baby she had
held at her breast and cherished with the
warmth of her embraces.

She was afraid of only one person in the
world, and that was Frank Mellor, who
had changed his name to Francis Cromwell
for shame of her. If he found her
he would kill her, and she owned that at
his hands she deserved death ; she had
robbed him of everything he held dear.

She had resolved upon death, but she
could not take it at his hands. It was too
awful to think of a meeting between them.
That would be ten times worse than the

most painful form of quitting life. That
would be an agony of the spirit ten thousand
times transcending any possible agony of
the body.

Frank, her husband, had always been a
man of strong feeling. At times this strong
feeling had exhibited itself to her in profound
taciturnity, at times in overwhelming
ecstasy. If she should encounter him now,
he would be possessed by the demon of
insatiable revenge ; he would strike her to
the ground and murder her cruelly, and
mangle her dead body. While he was
beating the life out of her he would revile
and curse her. He would heap coals of
fire on her head, and crush out of her the
last trace of self-respect. And in all this
he would, perhaps, be justified — in much
of it certainly.

How good and indulgent he had been to
her! She had not understood him then.

She had eyes for nothing then but admiration
and finery. To-day she had nothing to
call forth admiration — no finery ; and yet,
if she had not hearkened to that other man,
could she believe that Frank would not
love and shield and cherish her now as he
had then ? Frank was the very soul of
honour. He would not hurt a brute or
wrong any living being. She had not
known, had not understood, him then as
she did now, judged by the light of subsequent
experience.

She must see the boy once more — just
once more before she died. She would not
look upon another day. By some means or
other she would see her child, and then
bid good-bye to the world. When she
saw her child, there would be the canal
close at hand. But that would not do.
It would not do to pollute with the last
crime of her life the presence of her child.

No ; die river of which that other man
had stood in such terror would be the
fitting ending place for such a wicked life
as hers.

0, how different would all have been if
only that man had not tempted her with
lies, and she had not listened through
vanity ! Frank would have been good and
kind to her, and by this time she should
have grown to love him as she had never
loved the other ; and her boy, her darling,
her little Frank, her baby, would be with
her, his arms round her neck, his soft,
round, warm cheek against her own !

But, there, there, there ! " she moaned,
putting her hand before her blotched,
disfigured, worn face. " It is all over !
I have lost everything, and no one is to
blame but myself and the other. Only I
must suffer all. Yet it will not be for long.
I will see my boy to-night, even if I die

there and then. I don't care about dying.
Death has refused me once, but it shall not
this time. 0, my little Frank ! my little
innocent Frank ! my baby that I warmed
against my breast ! "

She lay in a kind of torpor for a few
hours ; then, having got up and made some
small arrangements, she wrote a note for
Mrs. Pemberton, placed it in her trunk,
and, putting a lock of hair and an old worn
glove of her boy's in her bosom, went
down-stairs and slipped out by the private
door beside the shop.

3^

^

WILLIAM Crawford's LUCK.

When William Crawford found himself safe
aboard the moving steamboat, he uttered
an exclamation of intense relief and satisfaction.
He looked quickly behind him,
and noticed with a laugh that pursuit was
out of the question. He was safe ! His
life had been twice imperilled that day, and
he had escaped with nothing worse than a
wetting. He had been in imminent danger
of death from drowning, had been saved by
a woman whom he had ruined, and then
escaped from her deadly demoniacal, maniac
wrath. After all this, who could say that
there was not luck in the world ? and who
could deny that luck had befriended him
in a phenomenal manner ?

Yes, lie was lucky ; lie lead been lucky
all his life up to this, except at cards, and
he should be lucky to the end. If Fate
had meant ever to do him an ill turn, surely
it would not have let slip two such remarkable
opportunities. No, he was born to
good fortune ; and the saying was true that
it was better to be born lucky than rich.
And, thinking of riches, this day's mishaps
had not even cost him the fifty pounds, for
he still held the notes in his hand. What
a fool that woman was not to take them !
But then she had always been a fool.

And with this generous thought of the
woman who had sacrificed everything for
him, he dismissed her from his mind.

He was hatless, and his clothes were all
rumpled and creased ; and the water
dripped from the ends of his trousers, making
a wet patch on the deck wherever he
stepped.

The people on the steamboat had noticed
the hasty manner of his coming aboard, his
rush out of the pier-master's room, and his
leap from the hulk. They also observed
that his clothes were wet, and that he was
without any covering for his head. They
were observing him with interest and curiosity.
Becoming conscious of this, and
feeling a slight shiver pass through him, he
turned to one of the crew and said :

In coming from the shore to the pier *
I fell into the water. Is there any brandy
aboard ? "

Plenty, sir, in the fore-cabin."

To the fore-cabin he went forthwith, and
drove off the chill with brandy, and escaped
the curious eyes of the passengers.

He remained below until the boat arrived

at Blackfriars Bridge. Here he went

ashore, and, hailing the first hansom, drove

to a tailor and outfitter's, where he got
VOL. in. 36

everything he wanted except boots, and
these the obliging shopkeeper procured for
him.

It was now four o'clock. He had had
two great shocks that day, each of which
was more severe than any other he had
endured in his life. He felt that something
in the way of compensation was due to him.
Play went on all day long and all night
lonfi^ at the Counter Club. What better
could he do with himself than have a few
quiet games before going back to his dull
Eichmond home ? He did not like appearing
at the club in a suit of ready-made
clothes, but, then, all kinds of men, in all
kinds of costumes, went to the Counter ;
and he had never been a great dandy.

Accordingly to the Counter he drove,
with four of the damp ten-pound notes in
his pocket and some broken money. It was
not as much as he should have liked, but,

then, he had no intention of making a night
of it. He would get back to Eichmond
about dusk.

He left the club just in time to catch the
last train for home. He found an empty
compartment, and, as he threw himself into
a corner cried, softly to himself:

Luck ! Why, of course, there never
was such luck as mine! I used to be unlucky
at cards. Unlucky at cards, lucky
in love, they say. Well, I have been more
lucky than most men in love, and here now
are cards turning in my favour. I have
now won twice running. I have a hundred
and twenty pounds more in my pocket
than when I came to town this morning.
There seems to be absolutely no end to my
luck. If that fool Kate had taken the fifty,
of course I could not have played, and, of
course, if I had not played I could not

have won. My good fortune is almost

36—2

miraculous. If any other person but Kate
had rescued me, he or she would have
taken the money, and there would have
been no play ; and if I had not fallen into
the water it is very likely I should not
have thought of treating myself to a game.
Upon my word, it is miraculous — nothing
short of miraculous."

His eyes winked rapidly, and he stroked
his smoothly-shaven chin with intense satisfaction.


But," he went on, " the whole thing is
due to that delightful Hetty, for if I had
not wanted to see that charming n^irl ao^ain
I should not have gone to Welford to-day,
and, of course, should not have played this
afternoon. Like all other gamblers, I am a
bit superstitious, and I do believe that she
has brought me luck. Now twice out of
three times that I have played since I saw
her I have won, and that never happened

J

in all my life before. Yes, she has undoubtedly
brought me luck. Suppose this
luck continued, I should be a rich man ina
short time. I should be quite independent
of Welford and Singleton Terrace, Richmond,
and although I am good at private
theatricals, I am getting a bit sick of
Singleton Terrace, Eichmond. A man gets
tired of a goody-goody part sooner than of
any other kind. I do believe, after all, that
if I had that three thousand pounds for
capital and Hetty for luck, I should be
better off without Singleton Terrace, Richmond.
That is an aspect of the future well
worth thinking over."

When he got home he found to his surprise
and disgust that his wife had not yet
gone to bed. He put his arm round her and
kissed her tenderly, and chid her gently for
sitting up. She said she was anxious about
him, as he had said he should be back early.

The fact of the matter is, Nellie, I had
a great deal more trouble about those gates
than I anticipated. You have no notion
of how stupid workmen can be. They
always want to do something or other you
have said distinctly you do not want to
have done. I told the creature I went to
as plainly as I am telling you that I did
not wish to have ice-house doors, but
simply gates sufficiently strong and well
secured to prevent any one falling into the
water. I told him to go see the place, and
that I should come back in an hour to hear
what he had to say about price ; and would
you believe it ? the animal had made out an
estimate for double doors ! I could hardly
get him to adopt my views. He said an ice-house
ought to have ice-house doors, and
that to put up any others would not be
workmanlike, and would expose him to
contempt and ridicule in the neighbourhood

! Did you ever hear anything so
monstrously absurd in all your life ? "

It was very provoking, William, and I
am sorry that my foolish fears caused you
so much trouble'' she said in a tone of
self-reproach, softly stroking his hand held
in both hers.

"Not at all, dear! Not at all! I am
very glad I went. But of course the work
about the gates did not keep me till now.
I have had a little adventure."

She looked up at him in alarm, and
glanced in fear at the unfamiliar clothes he
wore. " A little adventure ? " she cried
faintly.

Yes," he said, with one of his short
quick laughs, " but you need not be uneasy
; I am not the worse of it, and there
was no fair lady in it to make you
jealous."

Jealous ! " she cried, with a rapturous

smile of utter faith. Not all the fair ladies
in the world could make me jealous,
William. I know you too well."

Thank you, Nellie," he said in a grateful,
serious tone, raising one of her hands
and kissing it. " No. The fact is, as I was
waiting on the pier for the steamer, a little
boy, about the age of the one I saw in
my dream, about the age of young Layard,
fell into the river, and as he was beyond
the reach of the poles and too young to
catch a line or life-buoy, and was in great
danger of drowning, I jumped in and got
him out."

With a sigh of horror she lay back in
her chair unable to speak,

"It was a strange fulfilment of my
dream. As you know, I am not in the
least superstitious, but it seems to me that
the nightmare I had last night was sent tome
that I might be on the spot to save

that poor little clap from a watery grave.
Don't look so terrified, Nellie. There was
great danger for the little fellow, but not
the slightest for me. I am as much at
home in the water as a duck, and you see,
being stout, I am buoyant and swim very

high."

0, but 'tis dreadful to think of you,
William, in the water ! " she whispered ina
voice breathless with a combined feeling
of dread of the peril he had been in and
thankfulness for his present security.

Well, it's all over now, and you needn't
be afraid of my doing anything of the kind
again. When I got out of the water I
went and bought a dry suit of ready-made
clothes, and I think you must admit I am
quite a swell in them."

She forced a smile. He went on:

Well, even all this wouldn't account for
my being so late. You must know there

is nothing I hate so mncli as notoriety, and
I had absolutely got to Waterloo on my
way home when it suddenly occurred tome
that as two or three hundred people
saw the rescue some one might ^o to the
newspapers with an account of it. Nothing
could make me more shamefaced than to
see my name in print in connection with
this affair. I had experience of something
of the kind at the time of the fire — you remember,
dearest P "

She pressed his hand and said, " My own,
my own, my own ! "

So I took a cab and drove round to all
the newspaper-offices to bar a report going
in. That was what kept me till this hour."

They sat talking for a little while longer,
and then she rang for the maid and he
went to the dressing-room.

The anxiety caused b}' his unexpected
delay in town, or by the tale he had told

her, may have had an injurious effect on
the invalid, or it may be that, without any
exciting cause, the aggravation would have
taken place ; but at all events, that night,
or, rather, early in the morning, Mrs.
Crawford rang her bell, and upon her
husband coming to her he found her so
much worse that he set off at once for the
doctor.

As he closed the front-door after him he
whispered to himself, "I wonder is this
more of my luck ? "

t=T«>— ?r^^^?— ^

AN INTRUDER UPON THE AIT.

When Kate Mellor found herself in the
streets of Leeham that evening the light
was bemnnino: to fail. The clouds, which
during the day had been thin and fleecy,
had, as the hours went by, grown in extent
and mass. They now hung above, fold
over fold, dark, gloomy, threatening. The
air was heavy, moist, oppressive. Not a
breath of wind stirred.

The woman turned to the left, and,
taking the tow-path, as she had one night
before, set out in the direction of Welford.
She wore her veil closely drawn over her
disfigured face. Her step was more firm
and elastic than in the afternoon. Then

she had been on her way to seek physical
relief ; now she was on her way to alleviate
her heart.

She left the tow-path by the approach at
Welford, and gained the bridge. The usual
group of loungers and loafers were there,
but they took no notice of her. They
could see by a glance at her that she was
poor and miserable, and to be poor and
miserable at Welford Bridge insured one
against close observation or inquisitive
speculation — it was to wear the uniform of
the place.

She leaned against the parapet, and
gazed at the canal side of Boland's Ait.
Everything there was as usual : the floating
stage being moored by the side of the islet,
as it had been on the night she tried to
draw it across the water.

She turned her eyes on the other side of
the island, and started. She saw what lie

had never seen before : the floating stage
stretching across the water of the bay,
making a bridge from one bank to the
other. This discovery set her heart beating
fast, for if one could only get on Crawford's
Quay one could cross over the stage
to the Ait.

Hitherto all her hopes had been centred
on the stage lying along the islet on the
canal side. Now the best chance of gaining
the holm lay on the side of the bay.

Crawford's Quay was not used for purposes
of trade now, all the buildings being
vacant except the house in which Layard
lived.

The daylight was almost gone, and the
heavy banks of cloud shrouded earth in a
dull deep gloom — a gloom deeper than
that of clear midnight in this month of
June.

Kate Mellor turned again to her left and

walked to the top of Crawford Street. She
looked down it. All was dark except the
one lamp burning like an angry eye at the
bottom. As she was perfectly certain no
one could recognise her, she went into
Crawford Street without much trepidation.
She kept on the left-hand side : the one
opposite to Crawford's House.

The window of the sitting-room was fully
open for air. In the room were four
people : a man with a long beard, whom
she did not know ; a girl with golden-brown
hair, whom she had more than once
seen take Freddie from her husband at the
end of the stage ; and a second man, whom
she could not see, for his back was towards
her. And her husband. They were all
just in the act of sitting down to supper.

She knew the place and the ways of
the people thoroughly. She had studied
nothing else for days and day?.

There is no one now on the island but
the child, and they will be half-an-hour at
supper ; they will not stir for half-an-hour !
Now is my chance, or never ! "

Her heart throbbed painfully ; she was
so excited that she tottered in her walk.
She was afraid to run lest she should
attract the attention of people passing
along Welford Eoad at the top of the street.

Everything depended on speed. She
had been down here twice before, and
found that one of the staples of a padlock
securing a gate had rusted loose in the
jamb. Without the floating stage for a
bridiT^e, this discovery was useless ; without
the absence of her husband from the island,
or unless he was sunk in profound sleep,
the loose staple and the stage-bridge would
be of little avail. But here, owing to some
extraordinary and beneficent freak, all
three combined in her interest to-night!

Not a second was to be lost. Already
she was working fiercely at the loose staple.
It was rusted and worn, and the wood was
decayed all round it, but still it clung to
the post, as a loose tooth to the gum.

She seized it with both her hands,
although there was hardly room for one
hand, and swayed it this way and that
until her breath came short and the blood
trickled from her fingers.

No doubt it was yielding, but would it
come away in time ? She had not hours to
accomplish the task. She had only minutes,
and every minute lost was stolen from the
time she might bend over her darling,
watching, devouring his lovely face, and
listening to his innocent breathing, and
feeling his sweet baby breath upon her
cheek !

0, this was horrible ! Break iron !
break wood! break fingers! break arm!

VOL. HT. 37

but let this poor distracted outcast mother
into the presence of her child for the last
time, for one parting sight, one parting
kiss, in secret and fear !

At last the staple yielded and came away
in her hand, and in another moment, after
a few gratings and squeaking which turned
her cold, lest they should be heard, the unhappy
mother forced open the door and
passed through.

In another moment she was across the
bridge and on the land which her love for
her little one had made dearer to her from
afar off than ever Canaan was to the desert-withered
Israelites of old.

There was light enough to walk without
stumbling. She knew the lie of the place
as well as it could be learned without absolutely
treading the ground. She took her
way rapidly round the wall of the old tim-bernard
and then across the little open

space to the cottage. She observed no
precaution now, but went on impetuously,
headlong.

The door of the cottage was shut. She
opened it by the latch, and, having entered,
closed it after her. She did not pause to
listen ; she did not care whether there was
an}^ one in the place or not. She knew she
was within reach of her child, and that she
should be able to see him, to touch him,
before she died. She was within arm's *
length of him, and she would touch him,
though he was surrounded by levelled
spears. The spears might pierce her bosom,
but even though they did she could stretch
out her hand and caress his head before the
sense left her hand, the sight her eye.

She knew where to find the door of the

room in which he slept, for the light she

had seen the other night through the eye of

Welford Bridge as she came along the 



path was burning, much dimmed, on the
same window-sill now.

She opened the door and entered the
room.

In the middle of the bed lay the child,
half-naked. The heat of the night had made
him restless, and he had kicked off the
clothes.

With a long tremulous moan she flung
herself forward on the bed, and, penning
his little body within the circle of her arms,
laid her disfigured face against his head and
burst into tears.

%^2;M^

Hetty's visit to the ait.

And so we have got 3^011 at last, and here
is Mr. Eay, who will hardly believe you are
really coming," said Layard that evening,
as Bramwell knocked at the back door and
entered Crawford's house. "It is very good
of you to make an exception in our favour."

All the goodness is on your side in inviting
one who has been out of the world
for so long a time. I know you will believe
me when I say that now we are known to
one another I am very glad to come."

There is nothing like breaking the ice,
and let us hope for a phenomenon that the
water below may be warm. You have no
notion of what it is to be at the works all

day long and never exchange a word with
a congenial soul. Then when I come home
I do not think it fair to my sister to leave
her alone. So my life is a little monotonous
and dull ; but now that I have made the
acquaintance of you and Mr. Eay I mean
to lead quite a riotous existence."

You will, I know, excuse me if I do not
stay long to-nights I must go back to the
boy."

You may go back now and then to see
that all is well. But, after all, what is thereto
be afraid of ? "

Well, you know, I made an enemy today,
and it might occur to him to revenge
himself upon the child."

But he can't get near the child. Your
stage on the canal side is moored, Mr. Eay
tells me, and we are here at this end of the
other stage, and I don't think there is a
small boat he could get on the whole canal.

Besides, how is he to know but you are at
home ? I am sure you may make your
mind quite easy."

"Still, if you allow me, I shall go early."

*' You may go early to see that all is
safe, but we will not let you say good-night
until you are quite tired of us. Come in :
Mr. Eay and my sister are in the front
room."

Layard had purposely delayed a little
while in the passage. He was a most affectionate
and sympathetic brother, and he
did not know but that the two people in
the front room might have something to
say to one another.

They had, but it did not seem matter
of great interest or importance.

Miss Layard," said Philip Eay when her
brother had left the room, " you told me
you never were on Boland's Ait."

Never," she answered.

"Mr. Bramwell is certain to be anxious
about the boy, and it would be a great
kindness if you would go over the stage and
see that all is well."

I ! what ? Do you mean in the dark ? "
she said, looking at him in astonishment.

Well, Miss Layard, I thought you had
more courage than to be afraid of a little
darkness ; but if you did feel anything like
timidity, rather than that Mr. Bramwell
should remain uneasy, I would go with you
and show you the way. What do you say
to that?"

She said nothing, but, bending her head
over her stitching, blushed until her bent
neck grew pink under her golden-brown
hair.

He did not insist upon an answer. Apparently
he felt satisfied. In a moment the
door opened, and Layard and Bramwell
came in.

Although the lamp-light in the room
was not particularly strong, for a moment
Bramwell was dazzled and confused. lie
had not been in so bright a room since his
retirement from the world. Although the
furniture was faded and infirm, it was
splendid compared with that in his cottage
Then there were a few prints upon the walls
in gilt frames, and curtains to the window,
and pieces of china and an ornamental
clock on the chimney-piece, and a square"
of carpet in the middle of the floor, and a
bright cover on the table, not one thing
of the like being on Boland's Ait.

There was, too, an atmosphere of humanity
about the place which did not find
its way to the island ; here was a sense of
human interest, human contact, human
sympathy wholly wanting in his home.
Bramwell had come from the cell of an
anchorite to a festival of man.

But above all else and before all else
was the tall, lithe, bright-faced, blooming
girl, with plenteous hair and blue eyes, in
which there were glints of gold, and the
ready smile and white teeth that showed
between her moist red lips when she spoke.
This was the first lady Br am well had spoken
to or met since his exile from the world,
and she was beautiful enough for a goddess
a Hebe.

Was this, he asked himself, the dream of
a captive, and should he wake to find himself
once more cured between his whitewashed
walls, environed by silence and
bound by the hideous fetters of a bond
which was a horror and a disgrace?
Should he wake up as he had awakened
every morning for three years, to think of
his ruined home, his blighted life, and his
wife, who, though living, was dead for ever
to him, and yet with her dead and infamous

hand held him back from taking a new
companion, to be to him what he had hoped
she would be when he took her in all love
and faith?

No — all this was true. The talk and the
laughter were true. His own talk and
laughter were true ; and, above all, this
radiant girl, with her quick wit and beautiful
intelligence and sympathy, was true.
All true — and he was no more than thirty
years of age ! A young man. A man no
older than the youngest girl might marry.
PhiHp had told him that this girl was
twenty. Why, twenty and thirty were just
the ao^es for bride and bridegroom !

And how different was this girl from the
other ! Here was no vanity, no craving for
admiration, no airs and graces, and, above
all, here were the swift responsive spirit,
the keen sympathy, the aspiring spirit, the
exquisite sensibility !

Ay, and it was all true, and it was allowable
for him to dream, for he was free.
Free as he had been when, carried away by
the mere beauty of face and form, he had
asked nothing but physical beauty, believing
that he could inform it with the soul
of a goddess, until he found that the physical
beauty was clay, which would commingle
with no noble essence, which preferred a
handful of trinkets or an oath of hollow
homage to all the stirring tumults of the
poets or the intense aspiring of the lute !
Yes, he could be a poet under the influence
of such a deit3\ He could sing if those
ears would only listen ; he could succeed if
those lips would only applaud !

He took no heed of time ; it slipped away
like dry sand held in the hand. He never
could tell afterwards what the conversation
had been about, but he knew he was talking
fast and well. Never in all his life had he

spoken under such an intoxicating spell as
that of new hope springing in the presence
of this girl. It was intoxication on an intellectual
ether. His blood was fire and
dew. His ideas were flame. The human
voices around him were the music of eternal
joy. There was in his spirit a sacred purpose
that defied definition. He seemed
to be praying in melody. He was upheld
by the purpose of an all-wise beneficence
now revealed to him for the first time ; he
was transported out of himself and carried
into converse with justified angels.

Philip Kay sat in amazed silence at the
transformation. It was more wonderful
than the miracle of Pygmalion's statue : it
was the enchantment of emancipation, the
delirium of liberty. He had known and
honoured — nay, worshipped — this man for
years, but until to-night he had never suspected
that he was a genius and a demi-god.

He lead known him as a martyr, but until
this night he lead never realised that he
was a saint.

I must go," at length said Bramwell,
rising. " I have already stayed too long."

No, no," said Philip Eay, springing up,
you must not stir yet. This is doing you all
the good in the world. I have asked Miss
Layard to have a look at the island, and
she will see to the boy. You cannot deny
her this little gratification. We arranged it
before you came. You are here now, and
you must do what you are told. I will take
her safely over the bridge and back, and
then we shall have another chat."

Hetty rose with a heightened colour.

Pray sit down, Mr. Bramwell ; we will
bring you back news of the boy. It is
much too early to think of leaving, and weare
afraid that if once you went across
to-night you would not come back again.

Now that we have got you we will not let
you go."

Layard passed his hand over his bearded
mouth to conceal a smile. He guessed the
object of Eay's proposal.

"Mr. Bramwell," he said earnestly-you
must not think of stirring."

He rose, and, placing his hands on the
other's shoulders, gently forced him back
on his chair.

I am giving you too much trouble. Miss
Layard," Bramwell said, with a smile ; " but
if I must stays and you will go, there is
nothing for it but to submit."

His real reason for yielding so readily
was the intense pleasure it gave him to
find that she took such an interest in his
boy.

'' Put the lamp in the kitchen-window,
Miss Layard," said Philip, when the two
found themselves in the back passage.

"The light will be useful in crossing the
stage."

She did as she was bidden, and rejoined
him on Crawford's Quay, just outside the
back door, which they left open so as to get
the benefit of the hall-light.

Give me your hand now," said he, and
he led her across the floating bridge. " You
had better leave me your hand still," he
said when they were on the Ait. " It is very
dark, and I know the place thoroughly.
What do you think of Mr. Bramwell?"

I think him simply wonderful. I never
heard anything like him before. Does he
always talk as he did to-night ? "

No ; still he usually talks well. But
though I have been very intimate with him
for many years I never heard him talk so
well. As a rule he speaks with great caution,
but to-night he threw reserve to the winds
and let himself go."

I think I can manage now without your
help," she said, endeavouring to withdraw
her hand.

I should be very sorry to believe anything
of the kind," said he, preventing her.
You had better leave me your hand for a
little while."

She bent her head and ceased her effort.

Miss Layard," he said, after a moment's
pause, " I want you to do me a great favour.
Will you?"

If I can," she said in a very low voice,
so low that he had to bend towards her to
catch it.

In the dark and the daylight leave me
your hand. Give it to me for ever."

But the boy P " she said. " We must go
see the boy."

She made a slight attempt to release her

hand. He closed his fingers round it.

We shall go see the boy presently."
VOL. III. 38

They were now standing at the tail of the
Ait. " I have your hand now, Hetty daring,
and I mean to keep it. I have loved you
since the first time I saw you, and I never
loved any other woman. You will give me
your hand, dear, and yourself, dear, and I
will give you my heart and soul for all my
life. You will give me your hand, dear ? "

She did not take it away.

Then he let it go himself, and, putting his
arms carefully round her, folded her gently
to his breast, and said, with a broken sob :

Merciful Heaven, this is more than any
man deserves. May I kiss you, dear?"

'eyes."

Her head was leaning on his shoulder.
He bent down and kissed her forehead.

"I'm glad there's no light, dear."

"Why?"

"Because if I saw you I could not
believe this is true. Hetty."

What ? "

Nothing, dear. I only wanted to hear
your voice, so that I might be sure this is

you."

He put his hand on her head.

Is that your hair, dear ? "

"Yes."

I can't believe it. And do you think
you will grow fond of me ? "

No fonder than I am, Philip. I could
not be any fonder than I am."

This is not to be believed. So that
when I come into the room where you
are it makes you glad ? "

It gives me such gladness as I never
knew before, nor ever thought of."

"This is not to be believed."

And when you go away I feel so lonely
and desolate."

Do not tell me any more, or I shall

hate myself for causing you pain."

38—2

But I would rather feel the pain than
be without it. And I'd give you my life,
Philip, if you wanted it. I mean I'd go to
death for you, Philip ; and I'd follow you
all round the world, if you wanted it — all
round the world, if you would only look
back at me now and then."

You must not say such things, child."

But they are true."

I had hoped, dear, but I had not hoped
so much as this — nothing like so much as
this, and I cannot bear to hear you say so
much. Listening to it makes me seem to
have done you an injury."

And I'd do everything that you told
me. I'd even go away."

Hush, child, hush ! It is not right to
say such things."

But they are true. I'd go away and
live alone with my heart if you told me,
Philip. Now don't you see that I love you ? "



I do, dear. But now I see how much
less my love is than sours, for I could not
go away and live alone with my heart."

"I could. Shall we see to the boy
now ? "

"Yes."

BY THE boy's BEDSIDE.

Kate Mellor, lying beside lier child on
the bed, suddenly became aware of footsteps
approaching the cottage along the
canal face of the island. She had been
fondling and talking to Frank, and he was
now half awake.

Between the bed and the wall there was
the space of a foot. The mother slipped
down through this space to the floor, and
there lay in terror, trying to hush her
breathing and still the beatings of her
heart. She could not tell herself exactly
what it was she dreaded more than discovery.
Her fears took no definite form.

The footsteps came up to the cottage,

and then stopped. Through the open window
sounded voices, the voices of a man
and a girl. As the concealed woman listened
her heart stood still, for she recognised
the male voice as that of her
brother.

Go in, Hetty," said the male voice,
and ril wait for you here. The room is
on the left-hand side."

"You won't come in?" asked the girl.

No. Of course all is right. If you
speak in the room I shall hear you."

The girl came into the cottage, opened
the door of the sleeping-room, and approached
the bed.

Mother," said the boy, who was now
covered up.

The concealed woman grew cold with
fear.

Are you awake, Frank ? "

"Yes, mother," said the boy, stretching

himself, yawning, and rubbing his eyes.
"Are you going to take me away again?
If you do, take Freddie too."

I'm not your mother, Frank. Don't
you know me ? " said the girl.

"You said you were my mother, and
I know you are, though you have spots
on your face."

House up, Frank," said the girl ina
tone of alarm. "Look at me. Who
am I ? Don't you know me ? "

You're mother, and you said you'd
take me away to Mrs. Pemberton's, only
father wouldn't let you," said the boy,
with another yawn.

There sounded a tumult in the ears of
the mother, and she thought she should
go mad if she did not scream out.

The visitor went to the window and
spoke to the man outside. " The child has
been dreaming, and fancies I'm his mother."

Heaven forbid ! "

"Why?"

His mother is not to be spoken of.
His mother was the basest, the worst
woman that ever lived. She, fortunately
for herself and every one else, died a
little while ago. You are not to mention
her name, dear. It sullies wherever it is
uttered."

The hiding woman shrank into herself
as if struck by an icy blast. Was it thus,
she deserved to be spoken of by her only
brother ? Yes — yes — yes ! As the basest,
the worst woman who ever lived? whose
name sullied the place in which it was
uttered ? yes — yes — yes ! It was true !
Too true!

The boy's eyes were now wide open,
and he was looking at the tall slender
figure of the girl standing out black against
the lamp in the window.

"Aunt Hetty."

That's my own boy. Now you know
me," said the girl in a soothing and encouraging
tone as she went back to the
bed.

Aunt Hetty, where's mother gone ? "

She wasn't here, Frank. You were
only dreaming."

0, but I wasn't. I saw her. She lay
down beside me on the bed, and she had
red spots on her face."

The girl shuddered.

The woman gasped and felt as if her
heart would burst through her ribs.

Philip," said the girl, once more going
to the window, " I don't like this at all. I
think the child must be a little feverish.
He says his mother was here, and that she
lay down beside him on the bed, and that
she has spots on her face. What do you
says ought to be done ? "

'' Nothing at all. Get the child to sleep
if you can. As you say, he has been
dreaming."

But, indeed, I don't like it. He's so
very circumstantial. He says his mother
told him she'd take him back to Mrs.
Pemberton's, only his father wouldn't let
her. Who is Mrs. Pemberton ? "

"I don't know. Some lodging-house
keeper, no doubt."

Well, I don't know what ought to be
done. There is no chance of the child
going to sleep soon, and either he is raving
or — or — or — " the girl's voice trembled —
something very dreadful indeed has occurred
here. The child cannot certainly
be left alone now." She looked around
her with apprehension. She was pale and
trembling.

"You seem uneasy, Hetty."

"I am terrified." ;

I assure you the child has been dreaming,
that is all. It is quite a common
thing, I have read, for children to believe
what they see in dreams has real existence."

0, talking in that way is no use. I am
miserable and frightened out of my wits,
Philip."

What would you wish me to do ? "

"I think you had better go for Mr.
Bramwell."

Very well."

"But no — no — no, I should die of fright.
What should I do if that came again and
lay down on the bed beside the child ? "
moaned the girl in terror and despair.

You really ought not to think of anything
so much out of reason. There was
nothing in it but the uneasy dream of a
child."

Indeed, indeed I shall go frantic. Can
nothing be done ? "

Well, you know, I could not think of
letting you cross over the stage by yourself.
Nothing on earth would induce me to let
you attempt such a thing. And you do
not wish me to go away, and you will not
have the two of us go. I cannot see anyway
out of the difficulty."

dear, dear, dear ! " cried the girl.
I shall go crazy ! Stop ! I have it.
Didn't we leave the back door open ? "

We did, so as to have the benefit o£
the hall-lamp."

Well, you stay here and watch the
boy, and I'll go and call for Mr. Bramwell
across the bay. They will hear my voice
easily in the dining-room. That's the best
plan, isn't it ? "

Yes, if any plan is wanted, which I
doubt."

The girl ran out of the room with a
shudder.

The concealed woman had fainted. She
lost consciousness when it was decided to
summon her husband without watch being
removed from the room.

As Hetty passed Eay he caught her for a
moment and said, " Mind, on no account
whatever are you to attempt to cross
the stage by yourself. If you cannot
make yourself heard, dear, won't you come
back to me ? "

0, I promise ; but please let me go. I
am beside myself with terror."

He loosed his hold, and in a minute she
disappeared round the corner of the old
timber yard. Philip Eay went up to the
window, and with his face just above the
sill kept guard. He heard her call eagerly
two or three times, and then he caught
the sound of a response. After that he
knew a brief and hurried conversation
was held, and then came footsteps, and

the form of Bramwell listening alone the
wharf.

You are to go to Miss Layard at once
and take her over. She would not come
back. She is fairly scared. She told me
all that has happened here. Eun to her,
and get her away from this place quickly.
Good-night."

It is nothing at all. The boy has had
a nightmare."

Nothing more ? Do not delay. Goodnight."


Good-night."

The father then went into the cottage,
and, having bolted the outer door, stole
softly to the room where little Frank lay.
The child was wide awake.
Well, my boy," said the father, kissing
him tenderly, and soothing the child's dark
hair with a gentle hand. " So your Aunt
Hetty has been to see you."

Yes, and mother too."

"That was a dream, Frank, and you
mustn't think any more about it."

The boy shook his head on the pillow.
No dream," he said. " She lay down on
the bed there beside me, and put her arms
round me like at Mrs. Pemberton's, where
we lived before I came here ; and she cried
like at Mrs. Pemberton's, and I asked her
to take me back to Mrs. Pemberton's, and
she said she would, only you wouldn't let
me go. Won't you let me go ? "

"We'll see in the morning."

"And won't Aunt Hetty let Freddie
come too ? for I had no little boy to play
with at Mrs. Pemberton's."

"We'll talk to Aunt Hetty about it."

And mother has spots, red spots, on
her face now, and there used to be no
spots. And why won't you let me go ? for
I love my mother more than I love you'*

'• We'll talk about all that in the morning
; but it is very late now, and all good
little boys are asleep."

And all good fathers and mothers
asleep too ? "

Well, yes ; most of them."

And why aren't you asleep ? "

Because I'm not sleepy. But as you
have lead a dream that woke you I'll tell
you what I'll do. I'll move the stretcher
away, and sit down beside you and hold •
your hand until you go to sleep again."
He did as he said, and when he had the
little hand within iiis own he said, " Stow,
shut your eyes and go to sleep."

Father."

"Yes, my child?"

Didn't you know mother once ? "

"Yes, my boy."

A long time ago ? "

"A long time ago."
VOL. ni. 39

And when you knew her she had no
ugly red spots over her face ? "

No, child."

Well, she has now — all over her face."

"Go to sleep like a good boy. I will
not talk to you any more. Good-night."

Good-night ; " and with one little hand
under his cheek and the other clasped
lightly in his father's, little Frank lay still
awhile, and then fell off into tranquil
slumber.

For a long time the father sat motionless.
He was afraid to stir lest he might wake
the little fellow. His mind went back to
the evening he had just spent. How bright
and cheerful it had been compared with
the loneliness and gloom of those evenings
with which he had been so long sadly
familiar !

What a charming girl that was, and how
she had brightened up the whole evening

with her enchanting presence ! What a
home her presence woukl make ! He had
admired her as he had seen her on Crawford's
Quay with little Freddie, but then
she was bending her mind down to a child's
level. That night he had seen her among
men, the perfect complement of them, and
the flower of womanhood. He felt his face,
his whole being soften when he thought of
her. Even to think of her was to feel the
influence of a gracious spirit.

She was twenty and he was only thirty
who knows !

And then his head fell forward on his
chest, and he slept. But Hetty followed
him into his sleep — into his dreams.

He was walking along a country road in

May, dejected and broken-spirited, thinking

of the miserable past three years, when

suddenly at a turning he met Hetty holding

his boy by the hand and coming to meet

39—2

him. And then, with a laugh, he knew
that all these three years which tortured
him so cruelly had been nothing but a
dream, and that this sweet and joyous and
perfect Hetty had been the wife of his
young manhood. With outstretched arms
and a cry he rushed to meet her.

The cry awoke him, and he looked up.

Between the bed and the wall rose a thin
black figure sharp against the white of the
wall, and above the figure a pale haggard
face dabbled with large red spots like goats
of blood.

With a shriek of horror he sprang to his
feet and flung himself against the wall
farthest from this awful apparition.

In the name of God, who or what are
you?"

Nothing to you, I know, except a curse
and a blight, but his mother," pointing to
the child.

Living ? "

"I could not die."

He thrust both arms upward with a gesture
of desperate appeal. " Merciful God !
am I mad ? "

Cromwell FINDS A SISTER.

The sound of the voices had awakened the
child, and he sat up in the bed, looking with
wide-open eyes from father to mother, from
mother to father.

Brarawell stood with his back against the
wall, staring at his wife and breathing hard.
He was stunned, overwhelmed. He felt uncertain
of his own identity, of the place
around him, and of the child. The only
thing of which he felt sure was that he
stood face to face with his wife, who had
risen from the tomb.

"I did not come," she said, moving out
from her position between the bed and the
wall, " to see you or to ask mercy or forgiveness

of you. You need not reproach
me for being alive ; because only I fainted,
you should not have seen me to-night ; you
should never have seen me again, for I was
on my way to my grave, where I could not
go without looking on my child once more.
The announcement of my death came only
a little while before its time. I shall not see
another day."

Her voice was dull and hoarse, the features
wasted and pinched, and mottled with
marring blotches of scorbutic red.

This is no place for us to talk," he said,
pointing to the child on the bed. " Follow
me."

She hesitated.

I do not want to talk with you ; I wish
to spare you. I know you would be justified
in killing me. But I would not have
you suffer because you wish me dead. I
shall not trouble you or the world with

another day of my wretched life. Cover
your face, and let me kiss the boy again,
and I will go. I know my way to the river,
and I would spare you any harm that might
come to you of my dying here — at your
hands."

This is no place, I say, for such a scene
or for such words. Follow me."
You will not kill me ? "
I will not harm you, poor soul."
"Your pity harms me worse than blows."
Then I will not pity you. Come."
May I kiss the child once more before
I leave the room ? You may cover your
eyes, so that you may not see your child
polluted by my touch."

You will be free to kiss him when we

have done our talk. I shall not hinder you."

He held the door open for her, and, with

tottering steps and bent head, she went out

into the dark and waited for him.

Lie down now, my child, and try to goto
sleep. Mother will come to you later*'

The child, overawed, covered himself up
and closed his eyes. Bramwell took the
lamp off the window-sill, and led the way
into the sitting-room.

He shut the door behind them, put the
lamp on the table, and, setting a chair for
her by it, bade her sit down. She complied
in silence, resting her elbow on
the table, and covering her face with her
hand.

"You said you fainted," he said ; "do you
feel weak still?"

A little."

I keep some brandy in case of sudden
illness, for this is a lonely place." It was a
relief to him to utter commonplaces. " And
there are, or at least were until lately, no
neighbours of whom I could borrow."

He poured some out of a pocket-flask, and

added water, and handed the glass to her.
Drink that."

What ! You will give me aid under
your roof? "

Under the roof of Heaven. Drink."

She raised the glass to her lips, and swallowed
a small quantity.

All. Drink it all. You have need of
it."

She did as she was told.

He began walking up and down the room
softly.

'' You sent me the boy when you believed
you were dying, and when the crisis turned
in favour of life you inserted the announcement
of your death in order that I might
believe myself free of you for ever ? "

Yes. I intended you should never seeme
or hear of me again."

That I might be free to marry again if
I chose ? "

That was my idea."

And then you came to bid good-bye to
your child before going to the river?"

Yes ; they never would have found out
who I was. I left all papers behind me,
and cut the marks off my clothes."

But the love of sour child was so strong,
you risked everything to bid him a last
farewell ? "

"I am his mother, and all that is left tome
of a heart is in my child. I do not ask
you to forgive me for the past. I do not
ask your pardon for what I did three years
ago ; but I do entreat you, as you are a just
and merciful man, to forgive me for coming
to see my innocent little child ! "

She took her hand from before her face,
and, clasping both her hands together,
raised them in passionate supplication to him
as he passed her in his walk. Her thick,
dull voice was full of unutterable woe.

I forgive you the past and the present
utterly. Saps no more in that strain. My
head is very heavy, and I am trying to think.
Do not excite yourself about forgiveness.
I am endeavouring to see my way. This has
come suddenly and unexpectedly, and my
brain seems feeble, and it will not work
freely. In a little while all will be plain tome.
In the meantime keep quiet."

He spoke very gently.

She groaned and covered her face again.
She would have preferred the river to this,
but the manner of the man compelled
obedience as she had never felt obedience
compelled before, and it was obvious he did
not wish her to go to the river — yet, at all
events.

It was a terrible risk to run — a terrible
risk. Suppose I had married ? "

But I never would have interfered with
you, or come near you, or let you know I

was alive. You were the last being on earth
I wanted to see." She took her hand down
from before her face and looked at him
earnestly.

I am sure of that, but you see what has
fallen out to-night."

0, forgive me, and let me go ! My lotis
bitter enough for what has happened,
without reproaches for something that has
not occurred. You have not married again ?
Have you ? "

He shook his head, and said with a
mournful smile, " No. I have not married
again. Well, let that pass. Let that pass.
Mentioning it helps me to clear up matters
enables me to see my way."

May I go now ? "

"Not yet. Stay awhile."

"I would rather be in the river than
here."

So would I ; but I must not go for many

reasons. There is the child, for example,
to go no Higher."

"But I can be of no use to the child.
Your coldness is killing me. Why don't you
rage at me or let me go ? Are you a man
of stone ? or do you take me for a woman
of stone ? " she cried passionately, writhing
on her chair.

He waved her outburst aside with a gentle
gesture. " Nothing can be gained by heat
or haste."

Let me say good-bye to my child and
go," she cried vehemently.

The child and the river can bide awhile ;
bide you also awhile. It is a long time
since we last met."

She grasped her throat with her hand.
She was on the point of breaking down.
His last words pierced her to the soul.
With a superhuman effort she controlled
herself and sat silent.

For a minute there was silence. He continued
his walk up and down. Gradually
his footfalls, which had been light all along,
grew fainter and fainter until they became
almost inaudible. Gradually his face, which
had been perplexed, lost its troubled look
and softened into a peaceful smile. It
seemed as though he had ceased to be
aware of her presence. He looked like a
solitary man communing with himself and
drawings solace from his thoughts. He
looked as though he beheld some beatific
vision that yielded heavenly content — as
though a voice of calming and elevating
melody were reaching him from afar off.
When he spoke his tones were fine and infinitely
tender, and sounded like a benediction.
He saw his way clearly now.

You risked everything to-night to get a
glimpse of your child, a final look, to say a
last farewell. You were willis to risk

everything here ; you were willing to risk
hereafter everything that may be the fate of
those who lay violent hands upon their own
lives. Why need you risk anything at all,
either for the boy's sake or in the hereafter,
because of laying violent hands upon your
life?"

I do not understand you," she whispered,
looking at him in awe. His appearance,
his manner, his voice, did not
seem of earth.

Why not stay with your boy and fill
your heart with him ? "

What ? " she whispered, growing faint
and catching the table for support.

"Why not stay with your boy and fill
your heart with ministering to him ? "

"What? Here? In this place?" she
cried in a wavering voice, still no louder
than a whisper.

"In this place. Why should you not

stay with your child ? There is no one so
fit to tend and guard a little child as a
mother."

'' And you ? " she asked in a wild intense
whisper. " Will you go to the river to hide
the head I have dishonoured ? "

No. I too will stay and help you to
shield and succour the child. Mother and
father are the proper guardians of little
ones."

Frank Mellor, are you mad ? " she
cried out loud, springing to her feet and
dashing her hand across her face to clear
her vision.

No ; there isn't substance enough in
me now to make a madman."

And," she cried, starting up and facing
him, " Frank Mellor, do you know who I
am? Do you know that three years ago
I left your house under infamous circumstances,
and that I brought shame and

VOL. HI. 40

sorrow and destruction upon your home
and you ? Do you know that I have made
you a byword in Beechley and London,
and wherever you have been heard of?
Do you know that I am your wife

She had raised her hoarse voice to its
highest pitch. Her eyes flashed. She
brandished her arms. Her face blazed red
in the disfigured parts, and the red spots
turned purple and livid. She was frantically
defending the magnanimity of this
man against the baseness of her former
self, against the evil of her present reputation,
against contact with the leprosy of
her sin.

All that needs to be known, I know,"
he said, in the same calm, gentle voice.
Years ago I lost my wife. I lost sight of
her for a long time. To-night I find a
sister."

Sister ! " she cried in a whisper, sinking

on a chair, and losing at once all her fierce
aspect and enhanced colour.

To-night I find a sister who is in despair
because of the loss of her child. I
restore her child to her empty arms, and
I say, ' My roof is your roof, and my bread
is your bread'" He lit a candle, and
handed it to her. "Go to your room
where the boy is, and take him in your
arms, for it comforts a mother to have her
child in her arms. I shall stay here. It is
dawn already, and I have work to do.
Good-night."

^r^^^.^^

40—2

"l MUST GO TO FETCH HER HOME."

When Philip Bay left Crawford's House
that night he felt anything at all but the
elation supposed to be proper in the
accepted suitor of a beautiful girl. He
had, indeed, a great many troubles in his
mind, and as he walked home to his lonely
lodgings in Camberwell he was nearly a
miserable man. It would not be true to
say he was out and out miserable, but he
was perilously close to it.

In the first place, he had to leave Hetty
behind him, a thing almost beyond endurance.
Then, when removed from the
intoxicating influence of her presence and
undistracted by the magic of her beauty,

he began to turn his eyes inward upon
himself, and investigate his own unworthiness
with brutal candour — nay, with gross
injustice.

What on earth was he that a faultless, an
exquisite creature like Hetty should give
herself to him? That was a question he
asked himself over and over again, without
being able to find any reason whatever for
her sacrifice. More than once he felt inclined
to go back, make a clean breast of
it by telling her that as a friend he would
recommend her to have nothing whatever
to do with himself. The words of love and
devotion she had spoken to him on the
island were a source of intense pain to him.
A nice kind of fellow he was indeed for her
to say she would follow round all the world !
He was obtaining love under false pretences,
that's what he was doing. And
such love ! and from such a perfect

creature ! It was simply a monstrous
fraud ! There was something underhand
and dishonourable about it ; for if she had
only known him for what he was, she would
flee out of the very parish away from him.
He must have been mad to ask her to
marry him.

It had all come on him suddenly. When
he suggested that she should go to the
island with him on the excuse of seeing
how the boy got on, he had no intention of
proposing to her ; and, nevertheless, no
sooner had he set foot on the Ait than he
must retain her hand and ask her to give it
to him for ever ! Could he have meant the
whole thing as a joke, or was the Master of
all Evil at the bottom of it?

But the full turpitude of his act did not
appear until he considered ways and means.
At present his salary was barely enough to
keep himself in the strictest economy. He

could not, after paying for food, lodgings,
and clothes all on the humblest scale, save
five pounds a year. It is true he had a
yearly increase of salary, and by-and-by
would have the chance of promotion. But
at the most favourable estimate he could
not hope to have an income on which he
might prudently marry sooner than between
twenty and thirty years. Say, in
twenty-five years, when his salary would
be sufficient, he would be fifty-two and
she forty-five ! If he had any hair left on*
his head then it would be snow-white, and
he would be sure to have rheumatism and
most likely a touch of asthma as well. He
would have confirmed bachelor habits and
exacting notions about his food and an
abject horror of the east wind. He would
tell old stories as new, and laugh at them,
and the younger men in the office would
laugh at him for laughing at these old tales,.

and mimic him behind his back, and call
him an old fossil and other endearing
names, indicative of pity in them and
senility in him ! What a poor idiot he had
been to speak to the girl!

It was true the Layardss were not very
well off themselves now ; but they had once
been rich, and naturally Hetty ought to be
raised by marriage far up above their
present position. She was a lady and a
beauty, and the most enchanting girl that
ever the sun shone on, and ought to wear a
coronet if such things went by charm ; and
here was he, a pauper junior clerk in one
of the most miserably-paid branches of the
Civil Service, coolly asking her to be his
wife ! His conduct had been criminal,
nothing short of it.

What on earth would Frank say when
he told him of it ? If Frank was an honourable
man he would go over to Layard, and

advise the brother to forbid the suitor his
house.

Suitor, indeed ! Pretty suitor he was to
go wooing such a girl as Hetty !

But then Hetty had told him she loved
him and would follow him to the ends of
the earth, and he'd just like to hear any
man in his presence say Hetty wasn't todo
what she pleased, even if her pleasure
took such a preposterous form as love for
him. Now that he came to think of it in
that way, if it pleased Hetty to love him
she should love him, in spite of all the
Franks and all the brothers in Christendom
; for wasn't Hetty's happiness and
pleasure dearer to him than the welfare of
empires ? And if he hadn't quite a hundred
a year, he could make it more by coaching
fellows for the Civil Service and in a
thousand other ways.

Philip Eay having arrived at this more

hopeful and wholesome view of his affairs
went to bed, and lay awake some time
trying to compose a poem in his sweetheart's
praise. Having found, however,
that he could not keep the lines of equal
length, and that the rhymes came in now
at the wrong places and anon not at all, he
abandoned poetry as an occupation with
which he had no familiarity, and took to
one in which he had experience — sleep.

When he awoke next morning all his
troubles and doubts had cleared away.
The lead of the night before had been
transmuted into gold by the alchemy of
sleep. He seemed to himself really a fairly
good fellow (which was no egotistical overestimate,
but a very fair appraisement of
his value). No insuperable difficulties presented
themselves in his mind to the making
thirty, forty, fifty pounds a year more than
his salary. He knew Hetty loved him, and

he simply adored his exquisite jocund
Hebe with the rich heart and frank avowal
of love. A fig for obstacles with such a
prize before him ! If any considerable sum
of money was attached to the setting of the
Thames on fire, here was your man able
and willing to undertake the feat.

When the afternoon came, and he found
himself released from the drudgery of his
desk, he hastened to Welford. Alfred
Layard did not get home in the evening
until eight o'clock, and, of course, Eay
could not call at Crawford's House until
after that hour. But he could go to the
Ait, and who could say but Hetty might
appear at a window, or even come out on
Crawford's Quay P In any case he wanted
to see Frank and tell him what he had
done, for he would as soon have thought of
picking a pocket as of keeping a secret
from his brother-in-law.

Philip Eay hastened along the canal with
long quick strides, swinging his arms as he
went. Now that the prospect of seeing
Hetty again was close upon him he had not
only lost all his gloom, but was in a state
of enthusiastic hopefulness. He hailed
the island three times before Bramwell
answered.

I thought you were never coming," said
he, as the two shook hands upon his landing.

"I was busy when you hailed," said
Bramwell, " and I could not believe it was
you so early." Then noticing the excitement
of his brother-in-law, he said, " What
is the matter ? Has anything happened ? "

Yes. Let us go in. I want to talk to
you most particularly," said Eay. Then in
his turn noticing the appearance and
manner of the other, he said, " What is the
matter with you f You too look as if some -
thing had happened."

"I have been up all night at work," he
answered, as they entered the cottage.

Eaj's sister had gone to Mrs. Pemberton's
to get the luggage she had left
there.

They went into the sitting-room. Frank
was playing by himself in the old timber-yard.


"Now, what is your news?" asked
Bramwell, feeling sick at the thought that
it must be something about Ainsworth.

Eay fidgeted on his chair. He found it
more easy to say to himself, " I must tell
Frank at once," than to accomplish the
design now that the two were face to face.
He hummed and hawed, and loosed his
collar by thrusting his finger between his
neck and the band of his shirt, but no
words came. At last he got up and began
walking about nervously.

What is it, Philip ? Can I do anything

for you?" asked Bramwell, in a placid
voice and with a quiet smile.

No, thank you, Frank, I've done it all
myself. I've done all that man could do."

Bramwell turned pale ; seizing the arms
of his chair, he said apprehensively, " You
don't mean to say you have met Ainsworth,
and "

No— no~no ! "

Bramwell threw himself back, infinitely
relieved.

"The fact is I have made a fool of
myself."

In what way, Philip ? "

You know my income ? "

Bramwell nodded.

Well, it may as well come out first as
last. I — don't start, and pray, pray don't
laugh at me — I've fallen in love."

Bramwell nodded again and looked grave.

And I have proposed."

Bramwell looked pained.

'' And have been accepted."

"There is no chance whatever of my
knowing anything of the lady ? " said
Bramwell in a tone implying that the
answer must be in the negative.

There is. You do. I proposed last
night on this island to Miss Layard, and
she has accepted me."

Merciful heavens ! "cried the other man,
springing to his feet.

Eay paused and stared at his brother-in-law.
" Why, what on earth is the matter
with you, Frank ? There is nothing so very
shocking or astonishing in it, is there ? I
know for a man in my position it was rash,
almost mad, to do such a thing. But there
is nothing to make you look scared. Tell
me why you are so astonished and shocked ?
If I told you I had shot Ainsworth you
couldn't look more alarmed."

I'll tell you later — not now. Go on
with you story, Philip. When you know
all you will see why I was startled. It has
nothing to do with you. I wish you and
Miss Layard all the happiness that can fall
to the lot of mortals ; but I need scarcely
tell you that, my dear, dear Philip."

I know it, Frank. You need not tell
me you wish me well. You're the most
generous-hearted fellow alive. You have
suffered cruel wrong through my blood,
but never through me personally. Yet I
believe if I had done you a personal wrong
you would shake my hand and wish me
well all the same. I believe if you yourself
had thought of Hetty, and she chose me,
you would be just as cordial in your good
wishes as you are now."

I should indeed," said Bramwell, with
a strange light in his eyes. "And now
tell me the rest of your story."

Again he shook his brother-in-law
warmly by both hands, and then sat down.

There is nothing else to tell. When
we came over here to see about the boy
last night I asked her to be my wife, and
she consented. By the way, how did he
get on after I left ? "

*' For a while his rest was broken," said
Bramwell, with a wan smile, " but after
that he slept perfectly till it was time to
get up."

I knew the child was only dreaming.
But Hetty " — yes, he had called her Hetty
to his brother-in-law : how incomparably
rich this made him feel ! — " but Hetty was
fairly terrified, and I thought it better to
give way to her. It was nothing but a
nightmare or a dream."

Do you know, I am not so sure of

that, Philip ? "

"So sure of what?" asked the other
VOL. ni. 41

man, drawing down his straight eyebrows
over his eyes, and peering into BraniAvell's
lace, looking for symptoms of incipient
insanity.

That it was all a dream," answered
the other, returning his sfaze.

Are you mad ? " cried Eay, drawing
back, and regarding his companion with
severe displeasure.

"That is the second time I have been
asked the same question within the past
twenty-four hours. Do you know who
the other person was who asked me that
question?"

"Who?"

Kate."

0, he is mad ! " cried Eay, stopping in
his walk and surveying Bramwell with
pity and despair.

The other went on, quietly looking his
brother-in-law in the face steadily.

The crisis of that disease went in her
favour. She inserted that announcement
of her death in order that I might feel
myself free to marry if I chose. On her
way to the Eiver she came to this place
to oft one more sisjht of her child. I
found her here "

And you forgave her ? " said Eay, ina
breathless voice. *

Yes."

Why ?" fiercely.

Because I thought it would be well for*
her to be near her child. And she is to
stay here "

Here ? With you ? You do not mean
to say you will meet her day after day forevermore
? "

Why not .^ She had nowhere else to
go to — except the Eiver."

"But he will come again, and she will

leave you."

41—2

No, no. He will not come again. Her
beauty is gone for ever."

Her beauty gone for ever ! How came
that to be?"

"The illness marked her for life."

And yet she may stay ? "

Why not ? Will it not comfort her to
be near her child ? "

0, Frank, you make all other men
look small!"

"I said I would tell you why I
started and cried out a while ago.
Last night, when I believed myself free,
I thought I might speak to Miss
Layard "

0, my brother ! 0, this is the cruellest
blow that ever fell on man! My heart is
breaking for you."

"I did not know last night that your
mind was set on Miss Layard."

Do not speak of me."

Boland's Ait ! " cried a voice from
without.

"Hark!" said Bramwell, holding up his
finger. " That is Kate's voice. I must goto
fetch her home."

Crawford's plans for the future.

Dr. Loftus pronounced Mrs. Crawford's
condition to be very serious. He told her
husband he did not expect a fatal termination
immediately, but that in such cases
there was no knowing what might happen,
and it would be prudent that all preparations
should be made for the worst. Above
all, any violent shock was to be guarded
against. There was now, he thought, absolutely
no hope of improvement. If she
felt equal to it, she might get up, and
be wheeled about in her chair. In reply
to Crawford's inquiry, the doctor could not
tell how far off the end mio^ht be — hours,
days, weeks.

Months ? "
Scarcely."

When the doctor was gone Crawford sat
a long time in deep thought. It was daylight
now, and he lay down on a couch in
his own room to ponder over the whole
affair. The income of the property would
be lost to him on her death. The three
thousand pounds of savings would come to
him. But how, and after what delay ?
There would be legal formalities and bother,
and he hated both. That fool the doctor'
either could not or would not say how long
the present state of things was likely to
last. Yet, as he had said, it was wise to
be ready for anything, for everything.
Plainly, the best plan for him to adopt
would be to induce his wife to make him a
deed of gift of the three thousand pounds.
That would diminish trouble in case of her
death. There was no need of cruelty in

asking her to do this. The only thing
absolutely necessary was success. He need
not even hint to her that he was taking the
precaution because of the fragility of her
life. He could manage to make the deed
of gift seem desirable because of some
other reason. One should seldom tell menthe
truth, and women never. The truth
was too strong for women. Their delicate
natures were not constructed to bear it
with advantage to themselves, and if you
told the truth to men they were likely to
use it to their own advantage. Quite
right: truth was a jewel, but, like any
other jewel, it was lit only for holiday
wear.

As soon as he got that deed of gift
executed there would not be much more
for him to do at Singleton Terrace. Viewed
as a place of mere free board and lodgings,
it was not of much consequence. With

three thousand pounds and his present turn
of luck he should be well off. Viewed as
the home of a confirmed invalid who doted
on him, Singleton Terrace was distasteful.

There would not be the least necessity
for brutality or unkindness. Unkindness
and brutality were always cardinal mistakes.
He believed he could manage the whole
matter with his wife, and appear in it
greatly to his own advantage. He'd try
that very day to arrange matters, so that at
any hour he could quit Eichmond forever
What a merciful deliverance that
would be for him ! During the past few
months he had scarcely dared to call his
soul his own. Yes, if that deed could begot
ready and executed in twenty-four
hours, there was no reason why he should
not shake the dust of Eichmond off his feet
in twenty-five.

Whither should he go ? Ultimately back

to the States, no doubt; but in the first
instance to Welford. The latter place
would be perfect only for two circumstances
: first, that infernal Philip Revisited
Boland's Ait close by, and, second
Hetty — that charming Hetty — had ?,
brother, a most forbidding and ruffians'
looking man, who might make himself
intensely disagreeable. But it would be
delightful to be under the same roof with
that beautiful girl and saying agreeable
things to her when they met. In all his
life he never saw any girl so lovely as
Hetty; and then look at the luck she
had brought him ! He would try Welford
for a week or two — try the effect of Hetty's
luck by playing every night for a fortnight.
If he had won a good sum at
the end of his trial, he should then bs
certain it was owing to Hetty. It would
be easy to avoid Eay. He was engaged

at his office until the afternoon. Every
afternoon Crawford could leave Welford,
go to the Counter Club, dine there, and
not come back till morning. The affair
was as simple as possible.

Then he thought of his escape from
drowning and his meeting with Kate. But
these were unpleasant memories, and he
made it a rule never to cherish any re-^
reminiscences which could depress him, so
he banished them from his mind and fell
into a peaceful sleep. •

It was late when he awoke. Some letters
had come for him, and, after reading them,
he went to his wife's room, and put them
down impressively on a small table by the
bedside. His inquiries were exhaustive,
sympathetic, affectionate. He kissed her
tenderly, and sat by her, holding her hand
in his, and patting it. He said all the
soothing words he could think of, and

assured her of his conviction that in a few
days she would be as well as she had been
when they were so happily married.

She smiled, and answered him in gentle
words, and in her soft sweet voice. She
thanked him for his encouraging sayings,
but told him with a shake of her head that
she felt certain she should never be better
—that this was the beginning' of the end.

But, indeed, you must get well," he
said. "You must get well for my sake.
Look, what glorious news I have had this
morning ! Here is a letter from my place
in South America. It is, unfortunately, full
of technicalities. Shall I read it to you ?
or tell you the substance of it ? " He held
up a bulky envelope, with several foreign
stamps on it.

0, tell me the substance, by all means !
I am not clever like you over technicalities."

"• It is, in effect, that my manager there

has himself invented a machine quite
capable of dealing with the fibre, and that
we are now in a position to set about
manufacturing"

What splendid news, William ! " she
cried, with gentle enthusiasm, pressing the
hand she still retained. "You did not
expect anything of this kind ? "

No. But excellent as the news is, it hasa
drawback ; and that drawback is one of
the reasons why you must get well at once'*

Why, what has my recovery to do with
the affair, and what is the drawback ? "

Well, the fact of the matter is we cannot
get the machinery made without some
money, and the little I have isn't nearly
enough."

"But I have some. Take the savings.
I have told you over and over again that
they are yours. Would what I have be
enough ? "

Well, with what I have and what I can
raise I think it would ; but you must get
well first. It is only sentiment, no doubt ;
but I could not bear to take your money
while you are not as well as you were a
little while ago. The only interest or
object I now have in this discovery is that
you may share the great benefit of it with
me."

Indeed, indeed, you must not think of
me in this way. It is like your dear kind
self to say what you have just said; but it
is not businesslike, and you must take the
money. I am only sorry it is not ten times
as much."

No, no ! Not, anyway, until you areas
well as you were a couple of months ago,
dear Nellie."

But you must. I will listen to no
denial. Fancy, allowing my illness to stand
in the way of your success!"

For a good while he resisted, but in the
send she prevailed, and he reluctantly consented
to accept the money, and settle about
the transfer from her to him that very day.

Accordingly, he went to town after breakfast,
armed with a letter from his wife to
Mr. Brereton, Mrs. Crawford's lawyer.

He came back early in the afternoon
somewhat disappointed : it would take a day
to complete the business.

After all," he thought, " I must not
grumble about the delay. The direct transfer
of the money will be better for me than
the deed of gift. In the one case I shall
have the money, in the other I should
have only a document."

He had abstained from going to the Counter
Club that day for two reasons : first, he
did not wish to risk discovery of his taste
for play while the three thousand pounds
were hanging in the clouds ; and, second,

he wished to believe the luck born of his
acquaintance with Hetty prevailed most on
the days he saw her, and should, to operate
daily, be daily renewed by sight of her.

"When all is settled I'll write for Mrs.
Farraday to come back and stay here.
She promised she would in case of need.
Then I'll tell my wife that my personal
presence is absolutely necessary in America,,
and I'll say good-bye to her and go down
to Welford, I must arrange with my wife
that Blore, the former agent, is not set
to work collecting for a month or six
weeks, so that I may have time to get out
of the country, or away from Welford at
all events. I don't think I shall require
more than three weeks at Welford. I can
get those gates put up and taken down
again, and stay there on pretence of superintending
the work."

HUSBAND AND WIFE.

The meeting between Philip Eay and his

sister was full of pain and shame to him

and the acutest agony to her. Few words

were spoken. Bramwell was not in the

room. He tarried behind on the pretence

of mooring the stage, so that the two

might not be restrained or embarrassed

by any consideration of him. But the

presence of the husband seemed to haunt

the place, and was felt by both as a

restraining influence.

"If he can forgive her and take her

back, what have I to say in the affair?"

asked Philip of himself.

No matter how much he may re-vol.
III. 42

proach me, I will not answer," thought
the unhappy woman. " Anything Philip
could say to me would not hurt me
now."

So beyond a few formal words no speech
was exchanged between the two, and
shortly after Bramwell came back Philip
went away.

May I stay in this room ? This is
your room, I know," said Kate meekly,
when they were alone. "I do not wish
to intrude. I know you have writing todo,
and that I may be in the way."

There was no tone of bitterness or complaint
in her voice. She simply wanted
to know what his wishes were.

While you were out," he said, " I
arranged the room I had intended to bea
play-room for the boy as my own. Yours
will be the one you used last night, and
this will be common to all of us. I shall

shift my books into my own room and
write there."

And the boy ? " said she, with a tremble
in her hoarse, dull voice. " Which room
will be the boy's ? "

Yours, of course."

She moved towards him as if to catch
his hand in gratitude. He stood still, and
made no responsive sign.

"When I came here two years ago,"
he said quietly, " I changed my name from
Mellor to Bramwell. I shall retain the
name of Bramwell, and you will take it."

He did not request her to do it or command
her to do it. He told her she would
do it.

As no doubt you are aware, I am very

badly off now compared with the time —

compared with some years ago." He was

going to say " compared with the time I

married you," but he forbore out of mercy.

42—2

I have little more than a hundred a year
and this place rent-free ; it is my own, but
I cannot let it. I hope soon to be able to
add to my income. If my anticipations are
realised I may double my income ; but at
present I am very poor."

And I am bankrupt," said she with
passionate self-reproach, " in fortune, in
appearance, and in reputation."

He held up his hand in deprecation of
her vehemence.

Understand me clearly. Mrs. Bramwell
may not have any money, and may not be
as remarkable for beauty as some other
women. But recollect, she has no reputation,
good or bad. She did not exist until
this present interview began. The past can
be of no use to us. I shall never refer to it
again ; you will never refer to it again.
There may have been things in the life of
Kate and Frank Mellor which each of them

contemplates with pain. No pain has come
into the life of Francis Bramwell during the
two years of his existence. No pain can
have come into the Hfe of Kate Bramwell
during the few minutes she has existed. It
will be wisest if we do not trouble ourselves
with the miseries of the Fellows. Do you
understand ? " he asked in his deep, full,
organ-toned voice.

I think I do," she answered. " You
mean that we are to forget the past."

Wholly, and without exception."

And you will forget that you ever cared
for me ? "

Entirely."

His voice was full and firm, but when he
had spoken the word his lip trembled and
his eyelids drooped.

He was walking softly up and down the
room. She was sitting by the table in the
same place as she had sat last night. Her

arms hung down by her side, her head was
bowed on her chest, her air one of infinite,
incommunicable misery.

And you will never say a kind word tome
again ? " she said, her voice choked and
broken.

I hope I shall never say any word to
you that is unkind."

That is not what I mean. You will
never change towards me from what you
are now this minute ? You will never say a
loving word to me as you used — long ago ? "

She raised her face and looked beseechingly
at him as he passed her chair.

I shall, I hope, be always as kind-minded
to you as I am now."

And never any more ? "

I cannot be any more."

Is there — is there no hope ? " She
clasped her hands and looked up at him in
wild appeal.

He shook his head. " I loved you once,
but I cannot love you again."

You say you forgive me. If you forgive
me, why cannot you love me? for I love
you now as I never loved any one before."

Too late ! Too late ! "

Is it because my good looks are gone ?
Why, 0, why cannot you love me again,
unless it is because my good looks are
gone?"

No ; your good looks have no weight
in the matter. I could not forgive you if I
loved you in the old way."

Then," she cried, rising and stretching
forth her arms wildly towards him, " do not
forgive me ; revile me, abuse me, yes, beat
me, but tell me you love me as you did long
ago ; for I love you now above anything
and all things on earth. Yes, ten thousand
times better than I love my child ! I never
knew you until now. I was too giddy and

vain and shallow to understand you. I
have behaved to you worse than a murderess.
But, Frank, I would die for you
now ! " She flung herself on her knees
on the floor, and raised her clasped hands
above her streaming face to him. " On my
knees I ask you in the name of merciful
Heaven to give me back your love, as I
had it once! Give it to me for a little
while, and then I shall be content to die.
You are noble enough to forgive me and to
take me back into your house. Take me
back into your heart too. Ease me up
and take me in your arms once, and then I
will kill myself, if you wish it ; I shall then
die content. Eefill my empty veins with
words of love and I will trouble you no
more. I have been walking blindfold in
the desert all my life, and now that the
bandages are taken off* my eyes and I can
see the promised land, am I to find I can

never enter it ? I am only a weak, wicked
woman. You have extended to me forgiveness
that makes you a god. Have for mea
weak woman, the pity of a god."

I am no longer a man," he said, leaning
against the wall. " I am smoke, an abstraction,
a thing, an idea, a code. You are my
wife and I will not cast a stone at you.
You are my wife, and you are entitled to
the shelter of my roof and the protection
of my name. I make you free of both.
But when you ask for love such as once was
yours, I fail to catch the meaning of your
words. You are speaking a language the
import of which is lost to me. It is not
that I will not, but that I cannot, give you
what you ask. There would have been no
meaning in the love I offered you years ago
if I could offer you love now. Get up. It
was with a view to avoiding a scene I
spoke."

I will not get up until you tell me there
is hope — that some day you may relent."

There is no question of relenting. When
you left rae you destroyed in me the faculty
of loving you. Stow get up. We have had
enouoii of this. We must have no more.
I have been betrayed into saying things I
determined not even to refer to. Get up,
and, mind, no more of this." With strong,
firm arms he raised her from her knees.

She stood for a moment, leaning one hand
on the table to steady herself. Then in a
low quavering whisper, she said, " Is there
any, any hope ? "

There is none."

She raised herself, and moved with uncertain
feet to the door. " It would have
been better I went to the river last nis^ht."

TEA AT Crawford's houses

Philip Ray left Boland's Ait he
crossed over to the tow-path, and not to
Crawford's Quay. It was still too early to
call at Layard's. There was nothing else for
it but to kill time walking about. Under
ordinary circumstances when greatly excited
he went for a very long walk. If nothing
else but the startling and confounding
affairs at Boland's Ait had to be considered,
he would have dashed off at the top of his
speed and kept on straight until he had
calmed himself or worn himself out. But
there was Crawford's House to be thought
of. That must not be left far behind.
Even now when he intended circling it

he could not bear to think he was turning
his face away from it, although he knew
it was necessary to make a radius before
he could begin his circle.

His mind was in a whirl, and he could
see nothing clearly. The astounding return
of his sister from the grave, and the still
more astounding pardon extended to herby
her husband, threw all his ideas into
phantasmagoric confusion. Images leaped
and bounded through his brain, and would
not wait to be examined. Of only one
thing was he certain : that Frank was the
noblest man he had ever met. Although
he repeated over and over to himself Cromwell's
words about Kate, although over andover
again he called up the vision of Kate
in that room on the islet, he could not convince
his reason that forgiveness had been
extended to her. In his memory he saw
the figures and heard the voices, and understood

the words spoken, but a dozen times
he asked himself, could it be true ? or had
his imagination played him false ?

The affairs at the Ait dwarfed his own
concerns, and made them seem tame and
commonplace. That a young man should
fall desperately in love with a beautiful girl
like Hetty was the most natural thing in
the world ; but that a hermit, a young man
of scrupulous honour like Frank, should
take back an errant wife, whose former
beauty had now turned almost to repulsiveness,
transcended belief. It was true, but
it was incredible.

As time went on, and the walking allayed
the tumult in his mind, his thoughts came
to his own position in the circumstances.
He had not told Layard or Hetty any of
Frank's history beyond the fact that it was
a painful one, and a subject to be avoided.
He had not told them that he was Brara-

well's brother-in-law. He had never said a
word about Bramwell's wife.

Now all would have to be explained.
Of course, he had intended telling when
he spoke to Layard about Hetty ; things
had changed beyond anticipation, beyond
belief, since last night. Had he known
what was going to happen on the Ait last
night, what had absolutely happened when
Hetty and he landed there, he would not
have said a word of love to the girl. He
would have told her the facts about Kate
before asking Hetty to marry Kate's brother,
before asking Hetty to become the
sister of this miserable woman.

He knew he was in no way responsible
for his sister's sins, but some people considered
a whole family tainted by such
an act in one of its members. Some people
believed conduct of this kind was a matter
of heredity, and ran in the blood. Some

people would ask, If the sister did this,
what could you expect from the brother?

Would the painful tale he had to tell
Layard inlluence Hetty's brother against his
suit? There were thousands of people who
would consider that he himself was smirched
by his sister's fault. Was Layard one of
these ?

The best thing for him to do was to relate
the story at once ; the most honourable
and straightforward way for him to proceed
would be to speak to Layard before he
again saw Hetty. If Layard raised an objection,
and that objection was insuperable,
the most honourable course for him to
pursue would be to give up all pretensions
to Hetty.

Yes, but could he ? And would he be justified
in renouncing her now that he knew
she loved him ? It would be all very well
if he had not made love to her and gone sofar

as to ask her to marry him. If only his
happiness were concerned the path of duty
would be plain enough. But Hetty and he
were now partners in love, and had he the
power or the right to dissolve the partnership
without consulting her ? Clearly not.
However he looked at the situation doubts
and difficulties arose before his mind. There
was only one matter clear — he ought to
speak to Layard at once.

It was now half-past seven. Layard left
the gasworks at eight. Why should he not
intercept him on his way home and put
him in possession of all the facts? Upon
what Layard said, the course to be adopted
could be based.

He got to the gas-house, and was walking
up and down impatiently when Alfred
Layard came out of the gateway and saw
him.

"Anything the matter?" asked Layard

apprehensively when Eay came up to
him.

"At your place? 0, no! I wanted a
few minutes' talk with you, so I came to
meet you."

"All right," said Layard, with a smile.
He thought he could guess what the talk
would prove to be about. He was the incarnation
of unselfishness, and it never
occurred to him for a moment to consider
how awkward it would be for him if Hetty
married and left him.

I want first of all to tell you a very
painful piece of family history," said Eay,
anxious to get the worst over as soon as
possible.

But why should you, Eay? I am the
least curious man alive."

You will know why I wish to tell you

before I have finished."

Then, without further preface, he nary
ui. 43

rated the history of Kate, her marriage,
her flight, her supposed death, her appearance
last night at the Ait, and her husband's
forgiveness.

Layard was greatly interested and excited
by the story. When it was finished, he
said ;

There is enough Christianity in that
man Bramwell to make a bishop."

To make the whole bench of bishops,"
cried Eay enthusiastically. "I always
knew he was a hero, but I was not prepared
to find the spirit of a martyr as well.
And yet I ought to have been prepared
for anything noble and disinterested in him.
He does what he believes to be right without
any view to reward here or hereafter.
Lie has had his wild days when he plunged,
under his great trouble, into the excitement
of gambling, but even in that he was
unselfish ; he injured no one but himself.

Once he pulled up, he stopped for good
and all. And now I come to the reason for
taking you into confidence and telling you
what you need never have known only for
something which concerns myself more
deeply than all else which has happened
to me in my life."

Then in a few words he explained his
position, his feelings towards Hetty, and
his belief that his feelings were reciprocated.

You have three matters to weigh," he
said, in conclusion; "first, the family history
I have told you ; then my financial position,
taking into account the chance of my getting
the tuition ; and, last, whether you
would object to me personally. In the
short time I have known you, I have taken
to you more than to any other man I ever
met except Frank. I am speaking to you
as much as a friend as Hetty's brother. If

I did not look on you as a friend, I should

43—2

not care greatly to take you into my confidence
and defer to you. But the notion
of doing anything underhand or behind
your back would seem to me intolerable
treason."

I'll be as straightforward with you as
you have been with me. I have liked you
from the first moment of our short acquaintance.
The way in which you have
spoken to me this evening strengthens ten
thousand times my good opinion of you.
The miserable family history you have told
me has no bearing whatever on you, and I
see nothing to stop you but the getting of
those tuition. Why, I married on little
more than your salary ; and during my
short married life I never for one moment
repented, nor did my poor girl. Contented
and willing hearts are the riches of marriage,
not money."

Kay was too much moved to say more

than " Thank you, Layard ; " but he
stopped in his walk, and, with tears in his
eyes, wrung the hands of the other man.

And now," said Layard, as they resumed
their way, " let us get home to tea."

That was his way of telling Eay that
there was no need of further words either
in explanation or of thanks.

"I thought we were going to have a
thunderstorm last night, and to-night it
looks like it too. I always feel a coming
storm in the muscles of my arms, and they
are tingling this evening."

Layard opened the door with his latchkey.
The two men went into the front
room, and in a few minutes Hetty appeared
with the tea-pot. She coloured deeply on
seeing Eay with her brother. She had not
heard the footfalls of two people, and was
not prepared to find him there. He had
never before come in with Alfred, and a

suspicion of what had occurred flashed
through her mind.

She did not speak to Eay. She felt confused,
and half-pretended, even to herself,
that she did not know he was present. Her
brother went to her, and put his arm round
her waist and kissed her cheek, and
then drew her over to the chimney-piece,
where Eay stood, feeling somewhat like a
thief.

You forgot to say good-evening to
Eay," said the brother.

Good-evening," said she, in a low
voice, holding out her hand.

Eay took the long slender hand, feeling
still more dishonest and shamefaced and
miserable.

When the fingers of the lovers touched,
Layard caught the joined hands in both
his, and pressed them softly and silently
together; then, turning away, he stepped

quickly to the window, and stood a longtime
looking at the dead wall opposite
through misty eyes.

T don't think we shall have that storm,"
said Eay at length.

Layard turned round. Hetty was pouring
out the tea, and Eay was standing with
his back to the chimney-piece.

No," said Layard, " I fancy it is passing
away. My arms feel easier."

Hetty was smiling, but looking pale.

"Do you take sugar and milk, Mr.
Eay ? " said she.

Dear me, Hetty," said her brother,
what a lot you have to learn yet ! "

She coloured violently, and shook her
head at him.

I wish you would sit down, Alfred.
You are keeping all the light out of the
room ; I can't see what I'm doing."

No," said he, looking meaningly from

AN ISLE OF SURREY.

her to Eay ; " but, bad as the Hight is, I can
see what you have done."

At this Hetty and Eay laughed a suppressed
laugh, and looked at one. another
with joyous glances.

CRAWFORD WRITES HOME.

The morning after Mrs. Crawford's relapse
and Crawford's visit to town about the
three thousand pounds, the husband was
sitting by his wife's bedside. He was in a
particularly cheerful and hopeful humour,
and insisted that she had already begun to*
mend, and would in a week be better than
she had been for months.

She shook her head with a sad smile,
but said nothing. She did not wish to
sadden the beings she loved above all other
living creatures by the thought of a final
separation between them, a separation
which she felt was inevitable, and to which
she could not reconcile her mind. When

alone she would cry out in despair to her
gentle heart, " To be so loved, and to be
so loving, and to be separated so soon!"

He went on affecting undiminished confidence
in her recovery. " I tell you, I am
certain you must, you will, get well, and
that much sooner than even the doctor
thinks." (The doctor had told him again
that day there was little hope of her
rallying.) "What good would my luck be
if you were not by my side to share it?
My Nellie comforted and sustained me in
my days of doubt and difficulty. Do you
mean that she is not to share my triumph ?
I will take very good care she shall. And
now I want to tell you what I insist upon
doing. I will take no denial, for I look on
it as essential to your recovery."

I will do anything you tell me," she
said with meek devotion. " I will do all I
.can to get well. For, William, I am the

happiest and most blessed woman in England,
and I do not want to leave you,
dear."

That's my own brave wife," said he,
winking his eyes quickly and patting her
arm. " I don't think you will raise much,
if any, objection to what I am about todo.
I am going to write to Mrs. Farraday
to come back and stay with you. She promised
she would come if you needed her,
and she will be a great source of comfort
and confidence to you."

But her brother ? "

"Oh, her brother can do without her
for awhile. You will be all ris^ht ao^ain in
less than no time, and then, if she wishes,
she can go back to her brother. And now
I am off to write to Eochester for her by
this very post, for a good thing cannot
be done too soon, and I am sure this is
a good thing for you."

He left her, went to his own room, wrote
the letter, and posted it immediately himself.
Then he came back to the house,
and having entered the dining-room on the
ground-floor, began walking up and down
with brows lowered in deep meditation.

I had better get it over me before Mrs.
Farraday comes," he thought as the result
of his cogitations. " I can't stay here any
longer. I am not a sick-nurse to philander
after an ailing woman, and dally in an
invalid's room. She was a fool to marry
me. Did she think for a moment I fella
victim to her ancient charms? If she
did she ought to be in a lunatic asjdum.
Of course I told her I wanted to marry her
for love, but is there in the history of the
whole human race a single case of a man
saying to a woman, ' I want to marry you
for your money'? Not one.

I can't stand this house any longer ;

it suffocates me. The doctor says there is
110 hope. Why should I wait to see the
end ? The approach of death and the presence
of death are abhorrent to all healthy
people. I can do no good by staying, and
I have to think of myself. There are very
few men living who would have been as
good to her as I have been. She cannot
expect me to do more, and," with one of
his short laughs and a quick winking of his
eyes, " my affairs in South America urgently
demand my presence. I'll get the*
business over me at once. Brereton told
me I could have the money early this
afternoon."

Here his mind became so intensely occupied
that his legs ceased to move, and he
stood in the middle of the room lost in
thought. He was contemplating scenes in
his imagination : not proceeding by words.
Presently words began to flow through his

brain again, and be resumed his pacing up
and down.

If there should be any hitch about that
money I should be in a nice mess." He
shook his head gravely and repeated this
contingency to himself two or three times.
That would never do. It would look weak
and foolish. When I act I must act with
firmness and decision. No, I had better
make sure of the cash first."

He put all the money he had in his
pocket, left the house, and took the first
train to town. At Waterloo he jumped into
a hansom and drove straight to the office of
Mrs. Crawford's solicitor. He found Mr.
Brereton in, and everything ready. The
solicitor handed him an open cheque for
£3,270, saying gravely as he did so:

And you are fully resolved to put this
money in that South American speculation?"


My dear sir, there's a vast fortune in that
fibre of mine ; and now that the machinery
has been perfected, it is only stretching
out one's hands to gather in hundreds of
thousands of pounds."

Brereton shook his head.

The best place in which to put money
is English Consols."

What, less than three per cent. ! For
you can't buy even at par now. Wh}^, my
dear sir, it's letting money rust."

It's keeping money safe."

Crawford shrugged his shoulders and
made a grimace of dissatisfaction.

Over-prudence, my dear Mr. Brereton.
Who never ventured never got."

A bird in the hand is worth two in the
bush ; and of all the uncertain things I know
of there is only one worse than putting
money in South American speculations, and
that is putting it in Central American ones."

All, but you have never been in South
America!" said he triumphantly, and his
eyes winked quickly, and he laughed a short
unpleasant laugh, and thought to himself,
"Nor have I either." Then he continued
aloud, " I am aware that it is most unwise
of any one who does not know the ground
to dabble in South American speculations,
but, you see, I am well acquainted with the
place, and know the ropes."

The last client I had who touched anything
in South America blew his brains out.
But, of course, it is no affair of mine. I
have only to do what I am asked by Mrs.
Crawford in her letter to me. The cheque
is an open one, as you requested. They
will pay you across the counter. I hope
you will not think of keeping such a sum
as that in your house ? "

0, dear, no ! I am going to remit it at
once to my agent. When you see me next,

Mr. Brereton," laughing and winking his
eyes, " you will congratulate me upon my
spirit and success."

I hope so," said the lawyer drily, and
in a tone and manner which plainly said he
believed nothing of the kind would occur.

Crawford said good-bye and went straight
to the bank, where he got thirty-two one-hundred
pound notes and seventy in
fives.

He had never had so much money in his

possession before. He had never had any"

sum approaching it. Once or twice after a

good racing week in the old times he had

been master of five or six hundred, but three

thousand two hundred pounds ! It was

almost incredible ! And it was all in cash !

It did not lie in the cold obstruction of any

bank. It was not represented by doubtful

I.O.U/s. It was not represented by shadowy

entries in a betting-book. It was not in-vol.
III. 44

vested in any shaky securities. It was not
manifested by abstract entries in a ledger.
The money was concrete and tangible, and
lying safely in his breast-pocket under the
stout cloth of his coat. He could take it
out and count it now if he liked. That
minute he could start for Monte Carlo or
St. Petersburg, Australia or Norway.

As he walked along the streets he held
his head high. He felt independent of all
men, independent of fortune, of Fate. He
had married for money, he had realised the
prize, and it was now safe in his pocket.
These notes were as much legally his own as
his hands or his teeth. No one could take
them from him except by force, and he took
pride in thinking that few men who passed
him in the street would be able to cope
with him single-handed. He had as much
thought of risking this money in anything
so far off and tame as South American

speculations as he had of buying a box of

matches and burning it note by note.

Of course, Brereton had been right in

saying it would be a dangerous thing to

keep such a tempting sum in an ordinary

house. There might even be danger in

walking about the streets with it in his

pocket. Some dishonest person might have

seen him draw it out of the bank and

might be following him. He might be a

match for more than an average man, but

he would be no match for two or three.*

Arresting had gone out of use, but it

might be revived even in midday in London

by men who knew the prize he carried, and

were bold and prompt. If in a quiet street

he were seized from behind and throttled

so that he could not cry out, and if a man

in front cut the pocket out of his coat,

the thieves might be off before passers by

knew what was going on or suspected 



thing being wrong. He had a horror of
revolvers, but plainly lie ought to be armed.
He did not yet know where he should keep
his hoard, but in any case it would be
well to possess the means of defending it.

Crawford had by this time got out of
the City and was strolling through Regent
Street. He turned into a gunsmith's shop
and bought a short large-bore revolver
and some cartridges. The man showed
him how to load the weapon. Crawford
explained that he was about to leave the
country for Algiers, and wished to have
all the chambers charged, as he was going
in a vessel with a crew of many nationalities,
and was taking out a lot of valuable
jewellery.

Lying was a positive pleasure to him,
even when it was not necessary. " It keeps
a man's hand in," he explained the habit
to himself.

It was now about two o'clock, and he
began to feel the want of luncheon. There
was no place where better food could begot
or where the charges were more moderate
than at the Counter Club. He was
only a short distance from it. What could
be more reasonable than that he should go
and lunch there ? Nothing. So he turned
into an off street on the left, and in a few
minutes was seated in a luxurious armchair
in the dining-room, waiting for the meal he
had ordered of the obsequious waiter.

lie was somewhat tired by his walk, and
found rest in the well-cushioned chair
grateful and soothing.

Could anything be more comfortable and
cheering than to sit at ease in this well-appointed
club, with a small fortune in
notes under one's coat? Here was no suggestion
of illness or approaching death.
All the men present were in excellent

health and spirits. They were talking of
cheerful subjects — horses, theatres, cards,
the gossip and scandal of the town. They
spoke of nothing that was not a source of
enjoyment ; and though all they said ran
on assumption that they did not contemplate
the idea of any man denying himself
pleasure or being unable to obtain
pleasure owing to the want of money, they
were not all rich men, but all spoke as if
they were. It was so much pleasant to
sit here, listening to this talk and taking
part in it, than to wander about that cold-mannered
house in Singleton Terrace at
Eichmond, or to sit by the sick-bed of a
wife ten years older than himself and whine
out loving phrases and indulge in distasteful
private theatricals.

Then the obsequious and silent-footed
waiter brought in his cutlets, and whispered
that his luncheon was ready. Everything

was very nice at Singleton Terrace, but
somehow cutlets there and here were two
widely different matters. It was no doubt
easy to explain the reason of the difference.
In one place the cook got twenty, in the
other a hundred, pounds a year. But
though that explained the difference, it
made the cutlets at Singleton Terrace no
better.

He had had enough of Eichmond. Why
should he go back there? As he had
always held, there was no advantage ill
being brutal, and he would not undeceive
his elderly wife. He would not tell her in
plain words that he had never cared in the
least for her, that he had married 'her
merely for her money, and now that she
was dying and her income would, for him,
die with her, and that he had got all the
money she had, that his whole mind was
occupied with the image of a beautiful

young girl whom he was about to make
love to and ask to fly with him on her (his
wife's) money. No. It would be uselessly
unkind to tell that middle-aged silly invalid
any of these things. But why should he
go back to Eichmond ?

If he went back to say good-bye he
would have to play a long scene in private
theatricals to which no salary was now
attached, since he had all the savings in his
pocket. Besides, he would find it hard,
-credulous as his elderly wife was, to make
her believe there could be any urgent necessity
for his immediate departure to South
America. There would be a scene and
tears — and he hated scenes and tears —
and then if the surprise or shock made her
worse, who could tell the consequences, the
unpleasant consequences, which might arise ?

In the next room were pen, ink, and
paper. Why should he not write instead

of going back ? That was it ! Hei write
explaining, play at the club to-night, and
go on to Welford in the morning. That was
a better programme than crawling back to
that silly old invalid and acting sorrow at
parting when his heart was overrunning
with joy.

He went into the next room and wrote
his first letter to his wife. He used a sheet
of unheeded paper, and did not date or
domicile it.

My dearest Nellie, — Upon coming
to town I found waiting for me a telegram
from Eio Janeiro to the effect that if I did
not reach that city at the very earliest
moment possible — in fact, by a steamer
sailing from London to-day — my title to
the estate on which the fibre grows would
lapse. Nothing but my personal presence
could save it. So, much against ni' will, I

was obliged to drive in hot haste to the

boat without the satisfaction of bidding you

good-bye. Indeed, I have barely time to

write this scrawl, and shall have to intrust

it to a waterman for post. Be quite sure

all will go well with me, and that I shall

telegraph you the moment I land. I am so

glad I wrote for Mrs. Farraday before leaving

home this mornings. I know she will

take every care of my Nellie while I am

away, and I am sure my Nellie will

take every care of herself, and be quite

well long before the return of her loving

husband,

William Crawford.

Thank heaven that's the end of this
ridiculous connection ! " he said to himself
as he dropped the letter into a pillar-box in
front of the club. "My mind is now easy,
and I can enjoy myself. I can play tonight
as though I were still a bachelor with

no thought of the morrow. Ah, but I have
thought of the morrow! What delightful
thought, too! delightful Hetty."

It was late in the evening when this
letter was delivered at Singleton Terrace.
Nothing else came by that post. Although
Mrs. Crawford had often seen her husband's
writing, this was the first letter she had got
from him, and she had never before seen
her name and the address of that house in
his writings. She did not recognise the
hand, and thinking the letter must be connected
with routine business about the
Welford property, she put it on the table
by her bedside unopened. He attended to
all such matters.

When the maid brought in her supper
she took up the letter again and turned it
over idly in her hands. All at once it
struck her that the writing was familiar,
but whose it was she could not guess.

With a smile at her own curiosity, she
broke the cover and drew out the sheet of
paper.

She looked at the signature languidly
until she read it. Then hastily, tremulously
she scanned the first few lines. When she
gathered their import she uttered a low
wailing sob and fell back insensible on the
pillow.

WILLIAM CRAWFORD FREE.

When William Crawford had posted his
letter to his wife he felt ten years younger
than an hour before. He enjoyed an extraordinary
accession of spirits. The day had
grown heavy and cloudy, but to him it
was brighter than the flawless blue of
Mediterranean summer. Eichmond and
Singleton Terrace were done with for good
and all. There were to be no more private
theatricals played for board and lodgings.
Instead of simulating love for an elderly
woman, he was at liberty to make real
love to the most charming young girl he
had ever met. His notions of right and
wrong were clear and simple : what he

liked was right, what lie did not like was
wrong. Since lie had come to man's estate
he had acted upon the code, and it never
once occurred to him to question it. He
did not object to other men being pious or
just or modest ; he did not object to their
even preaching a little to him about the
merit of these or any other virtues. All he
asked was to be let go his own gait unmolested.


He was now at liberty to take wdiat path
he chose and adopt what sport pleased his
humour. He had played for a small fortune
and won. He felt proud of his success, and
sorry that the nature of it forbade him
glorying in it. He was aware that the most
disreputable and unprincipled blacken in
the Counter Club would scorn to get money
as he had acquired his. But this did not
matter to him. He was not going to tell
any one at the club how he came by the

money ; that was an irksome self-restraint
imposed upon himself out of deference to
ridiculous conventional ideas. But he had
the money in his pocket — that was the
great thing.

As he intended playing all through the
night, if the game were kept up, it was too
early to begin at three o'clock in the
afternoon. He should be fagged out
before morning if he sat down now. He
was neither so young nor so impetuous
that he could not discipline desire to
delay.

All at once he remembered that in abandoning
Singleton Terrace so suddenly he
had lost his kit. The value of his baggage
was not very great, and with the sum now
in his possession he would not for three
times its value go back to Eichmond for it.
He had now no personal belongings but the
clothes he stood in and a portmanteau at

Welford. He would go to a tailor and an
outfitter and order what he wanted. That
would amuse him and help to kill time.
He should get back to the club about seven,
and devote the rest of the evening and all
the night to cards.

He did not go to the tailor with whom
he had dealt since he came to live at
Eichmond. He wanted to cut himself off
from that place as completely as possible.

At the tailor's he ordered three suits of
clothes to be ready in three days and forwarded
to Crawford's House, Crawford
Street, Welford. What he bought at the
outfitter's were to be sent to the tailor's
and to accompany the parcel of the latter.
He paid in advance for all. Then he went
to another shop, purchased a portmanteau,
and directed it to be delivered at the
tailor's, and sent a note with it, asking
him to put the outfitter's parcel and the

clothes into it and send it to the address
already given.

Then he bethought him of a dressing-bag,
and he bought a handsome one with
silver-mounted bottle and ivory-backed
brushes. The bag, being of leather, reminded
him that he had no boots but those
on his feet. So he purchased a couple of
pairs and a pair of slippers, and the slippers
put him in mind of a dressing-gown.

He directed all these things to be sent to
the tailor's, and wrote to the tailor to let
them all be forwarded at the one time — •
that is, when the clothes were finished, in
three days.

He enjoyed this shopping greatly. He

had never before spent so much money

on himself in one day. It was so pleasant

to buy these articles without worrying

about the price, to be in doubt as to

whether he should have a dressing-bag at
VOL. m. 45

thirty or thirty-five pounds, and to decide
in favour of the thirty-five-pound one
merely because it had prettier bottles and
a greater number of pockets.

When he could think of nothing else
which he wanted, he said to himself, " And
now what shall I take Hetty ? I must
get the very handsomest present I can
light upon."

This set him ofi* calling Hetty up to
mind. He looked into the windows of a
dozen jewellers' and shops where fancy
articles were sold. He failed to find an
article to his liking. He could not realise
Hetty accepting any of the costly gifts presented
to his view. At length with a
sudden start he cried out to himself,
What an idiot I have been ! Of course,
she would not accept any of these things
from me now. A few simple flowers from
Covent Garden tomorrow morning on

my way to Welford will be the very
thing*'

It never once occurred to him during
the day that the money he was spending
belonged to his wife, and was being laid
out in a way and under conditions not
contemplated by her in giving it to
him. When he decided on taking flowers
to Hetty, it never once occurred to him
that this would be spending his wife's
money to conciliate a rival of hers, and
that twenty-four hours ago he would have
bought these same flowers for his deserted
wife.

Hetty," he said, formulating his theory,
is to be won through her imagination, not
by pelf."

When he got back to the club he

reckoned up what he had spent. It was

an agreeable surprise to find that although

he had treated himself with great liberality,

45—2

all his purchases did not absorb the hundredfold
note he had changed at the
tailor's. He had got a moderate outfit
and a very handsome dressing-case, with
cut-glass bottles silver-mounted, and
ivory-backed brushes, for less than one
thirty-second part of the money received
from Mr. Brereton that afternoon. He
sat down to an excellent dinner with the
conviction that he had done a fair day's
work, and that he was entitled to enjoy
himself for the remainder of the evening,
and as far into the morning as he chose.

The dinner was excellent ; his shopping
had given him zest for it, and when he
stood up from the table he felt in the most
excellent humour with himself and all the
world.

He looked at his watch.

She has my letter by this time," he said
to himself, thinking of his wife. " If she is

not a greater fool than I take her for, she
will know from it that she has seen the last
of me."

When he wrote the letter he had no
intention of conveying any such idea to
her, but his shopping and thoughts of
Hetty had hardened his heart since then
towards his unhappy wife, and now he
wanted to believe that his letter would
leave her no loophole of hope.

Dr. Loftus said any shock might bring

on the end. Perhaps my letter " He

paused and did not finish the sentence, but
began another : " When a case is hopeless
the greatest mercy which can be shown to
the sufferer is, of course, to put an end to
the struggle. She could not have fancied
for a moment that I was going to spend all
my life in the sick-room of a woman almost
old enough to be my mother. Anyway, I
need not bother my head any more about

the matter. She cannot say that while our
married Hfe lasted I was not a kind and
considerate husband. Turn about is fair
play, and I am going to be a little kind and
considerate to myself now. I'll put the
past away from my mind. ' Gather we
rosebuds while we may' is my version.
Now to lose for the last time."

At the Counter Club there were men
every night who did not mind how far into
the morning they sat so long as they were
winning. From the moment Crawford
touched the cards until he rose at half-past
six he had lost steadily. Though he
had played for higher stakes than usual,
he had been as careful of his game as if he
had no more than a few hundred pounds
with him. He had not been reckless. He
had not plunged. Luck had simply been
dead against him, and when, while eating
his early breakfast, he counted up the cost,

he found he was close on three hundred
pounds the worse for his night's experience.


Mentally he cursed his bad luck.

But I deserve no better," he thought.
"I told myself that 1 should have good
luck only when I had came from Welford.
The luck I played with last night was my
wife's or my own, and both have been
invariably bad. I shall go to Welford today,
and play to-night with Hetty's luck,
and win back all I have lost and more
besides. And now to get a bouquet for
Hetty —-for the loveliest girl in the whole
of England. But the bouquet must not
be too splendid. It must be simple and
cheap, or it might do more harm than
good."

At Covent Garden he bought some simple
blossoms, and had them tied carelessly
together.

She will not value them for what they
cost, but for my remembering her."

He was full of confidence in his power
to fascinate and win. It never for a moment
occurred to him that Hetty might
not care for him or his memory of her.
The notion of a rival had never entered
his head, and if any one had suggested
such a thing he would have laughed the
consideration of it to scorn. He admired
Hetty intensely, and he meant to succeed,
and succeed he would.

He lounged about Covent Garden fora
good while, for he did not want to reach
Welford until Layard had gone to the gasworks.
Of course he should say his visit to
Crawford's House was made with the purpose
of seeing what progress had been made
with the gates for the flooded ice-house.

It was about eleven o'clock when he
got to Welford Bridge.

The coast will be quite clear till one
or two o'clock," he thought, with a sense
of satisfaction. " Layard has gone to the
works and Philip Eay is in his office,
curse him ! "

When Hetty heard the latch in the
door that day she came to no hasty conclusion
that it was her brother come back
for something he had forgotten. She was
in the kitchen with Mrs. Grainger at the
moment, and guessed immediately it was
Crawford, although the week was not yes
up. If Philip Eay had not spoken out to her,
that sound at the door and the likelihood
of the visitor being the landlord of the
house would have thrown her into unpleasant
excitement bordering on panic ;
but now she felt as calm and as much
at ease as though certain it was Alfred
himself.

I shall say nothing of what thai

dreadful man said about his falling into
the river," she resolved hastily. "If he
chooses to speak of it, well and good ; if
he does not, well and good also. We are
to leave this house as soon as Alfred can
make arrangements for doing so. The
quieter and the smoother everything goes
in the meantime the better."

Crawford paused in the hall. Mrs. Grainger
appeared. "Is Mr. Layard in?" he
asked, well-knowing he was not.

"No, sir, he's gone to the works."

"Then will you tell Miss Layard I
should be glad to see her for a few
minutes?" he said, taking off his hat and
putting it on the table.

Hetty came at once, and held out her
hand with a smile.

She looks lovelier than ever," he
thought, as he took the long slender hand
and retained it. "I know I have come

before my time, but I have been bothered
again in my sleep about that ice-house
and you. I will stay a day or so in order
to see the gates put up — that is, of course,
if you do not object?"

Object ! " she said, withdrawing her
hand. "Why on earth should we object?"

"Well, I don't know," said he. "It
may seem to you that I am unduly anxious
about the matter. But, upon my word,
my anxiety about sou has deprived me
of all peace since I saw you last, and
that scoundrel to whom I gave the order
for the gates has not begun them yet.
I assure you I had to exercise all my
self-restraint to keep my hands off the
fellow when I forced the truth from him.
Will you accept a few simple flowers asa
peace-offering and in lieu of the gates ? "

"0, thank you," she said. "They are
beautiful ! But you give yourself a great

deal of unnecessary anxiety and trouble
about that ice-house. We never allow little
Freddie on the Quay by himself, and of
course there is no danger for a grown-up
person, because no grown-up person ever
goes near it. How on earth," she asked,
with a laugh, '* do you fancy a grown-up
person could fall into such a place ? " She
wondered was he going up to his own room,
or did he intend to remain standing there
all day ?

I daresay I should not mind it if my
dream happened to be about any one else.
But the mere hint that any danger could
threaten you is enough to drive me distracted.
It is indeed," he said, looking at
her intently, and with a pained expression
on his usually passive face. " I assure you
I did not sleep a wink last night ; I could
not, and I feel quite worn out and ill this
morning?. I leave been wandering about,

trying to kill time until I thought it was
not too early to call here. I am hardly
able to stand with anxiety, want of sleep,
and fatigue."

Would you not like to go to your own
room and rest awhile ? I will send Mrs.
Grainger up with something nice for you."

Mrs. Grainger could bring up nothing
that I'd care for, and I hate the notion of
going to that lonely room. I am quite
nervous and unstrung." He sighed faintly
and leaned against the wall for support.

'' Well," she said, " will you come into
our room and rest there ? " Plainly, after
his reference to the loneliness of his own
place and the declaration of his exhausted
condition, there was nothing but to offer
him their front room.

Thank you," he said, " I shall very
gladly accept your offer. I am thoroughly
ashamed of seeming so weak and unmanned,

but indeed I have had an awful time
of it."

He sank on a chair as though completely
exhausted. She stood by the door and said,
Cannot I send you something, Mr. Crawford
? "

If you would be so good as to get mea
glass of water and then not leave me
for a little while I should feel very grateful
to you."

She hastened away and returned in a
few seconds with the water.

Miss Layard, I cannot tell you how ill
I felt as I came along here. I really
thought I should not have had courage to
open the front door. I was full of the
direst imaginings. I fancied that no sooner
should I raise the latch than some awful
form of bad news about you would strike
me dumb with horror, paralyse me with
despair." He took out his handkerchief

and rubbed his forehead, which, however,
was perfectly free from moisture.

I am very sorry to be the cause of so
much trouble to you, Mr. Crawford," said
Hetty with some concern, though she had a
vague kind of feeling that there was something
wrong with the man — that he was either
acting or of weak intellect. It never once
occurred to her that he was thinking of
making love to her. How could it ? Was
not he a married man P And did he not
know that they were aware the owner Of
the Welford and Leeham property was his
wife? She thought he had been a good
deal too impulsive and a little impertinent
on the former occasion when he told her of
his dream, but now she was almost convinced
that his violence of language on the
former occasion and his physical collapse
now were the result of a weak mind under
strong excitement.

For a while after drinking the water he
sat still and did not speak. Apparently
he was gradually recovering, for he sighed
once or twice, and once or twice
straightened himself and sat upright on
his chair. " I shall be all right in a few
minutes. The sight of you is doing me
good."

Well, of course you know now nothing
dreadful has happened?"

To you — yes ; I know that, thank
Heaven ! but to me, yes."

-' Something dreadful has happened to
you ? " cried Hetty. " I am sorry to hear
you say so. Nothing, I hope, that can't be
mended ? "

'' Well, I do not know about that. If my
condition were very desperate, Miss Layard,
and it was in your power to mend it, and I
asked you to help me, would you do
so?"

••' Certainly, Mr. Crawford, if I possibly
could."

He rose and went to her where she sat by
the table, and bent over her, and said in a
low, tremulous, tender voice, " Thank you
thank you a thousand times, my dear
Miss Layard, my dear Hetty — may I call
you Hetty ? "

She coloured and looked uncomfortable,
and this made her shine in his eyes with
ineffable beauty. "It is not usual," she
said at last.

No, it is not usual, but I would deem ita
great privilege. I of course would not
call you by sour dear Christian name when
any one was by, but when you and I were
having a little chat by ourselves I might,
might I?"

Her colour and her confusion increased.
It is not usual," she repeated. " There is
no reason why you should call me one thing

VOL. III. 4G

now and another thing at another thine."
She raised her eyes, drew away a little
from him, and pointing to the chair, said
with steady emphasis which surprised herself,
and showed him he must go no further
now, anyway : " I am afraid you are not
yet rested enough to stand so long. Will
you not sit down again ? "

You are right," he said with a deep
sigh. " You are quite right. I am completely
worn out, and my head is confused."

There is no couch in your own room —
perhaps you would like to rest on the one
here ? You will not be disturbed for some
hours yet. My brother does not come in
till three."

Thank you very much. Miss Layard,"
he said, without any emphasis on her name.
But I think I'll go to my own room and
lie down now. If I could get an hour's
sleep I should be all right."

When he stood alone in his own room he
said to himself, " I have not made much
progress with her yet. I durst not go any-further
to-day than I went. Next time I
ask her I'd bet a thousand pounds to a
penny she'll give me leave to call her Hetty
when we're alone. Once let her give me
leave to call her Hetty when we are alone
while I am to call her Miss Layard when
any one else is present, and the rest is
simple. My dreams" — he uttered his short
sharp laugh and winked his eyes rapidly —
"my dreams and my enormous solicitude
for her welfare must tell in the end."

He went to the open window and looked
out at the canal and the Ait and the tow-path.
Then he turned his eyes downward.

With a cry of terror he sprang back, as

though a deadly weapon or venomous snake

in act to strike were a hand's breadth from

his breast.

46—2

CRAWFORD IS SLEEPLESS.

What startled Crawford and made him
draw back in terror from the window was
the sight beneath him of the stage reaching
from Boland's Ait to Crawford's Quay across
the murky waters of Crawford's Bay.

Involuntarily he put his hand behind and
felt for the revolver in his pocket. It was
reassuring to find it safe and within easy
reach.

It had been bad enough to know that
Philip Eay visited the idiotic recluse,
Bramwell, on this accursed island ; but to
find a means of communication established
between the Ait and the Quay was alarming
in the extreme.

What could be the object of this floating
bridge? Of course it was not there merely
by accident. It was there with the consent
of the Layardss and the poor drivelling
creature who lived on the holm.

William Crawford was not an intrepid
man. Layard was near the truth when he
called him a coward. Crawford never
courted danger. His instinct was to flee
from it. If he could not run away, he preferred
thrusting his head into the sand to
looking menace straight in the face. If a
person or a place became obnoxious to him
he simply went away or stayed away.

In the present case the thing he would
like best was that Philip Eay might die, orbe
killed, or stop away from Boland's Ait
because of some sufficient and final reason,
death being the most satisfactory of all.
After the cessation of Eay's visits to the Ait
for fully sufficient reason, what he would

have liked was his own absence from the
neighbourhood. The latter means of terminating
the difficulty lay in his own hands,
but two considerations operated against his
adopting it. In the first place, he could use
the precaution of not being in the house, or
even district, during the hours when Eay
was likely to be free from his office ; and,
in the second place, he could not bring himself
to abandon his pursuit of Hetty. He
was willing to run a moderate risk for her
sake.

I think," he had said to himself that
day on his way to Welford, " that if Nellie
were to die, and I found Hetty continued to
bring me luck, I should marry her."

He had never asked himself whether it
was likely Hetty would marry him or not.
He always considered that women should
be allowed little or no voice in such
matters.

From the shock of seeing the stage connecting
the Ait and the Quay he recovered
quickly. He went back to the window
and looked out again.

There was not a cloud in the heavens.
The noonday sun of mid-June blazed in the
sky. There was no beauty in the scene,
but it was looking its best and brightest.
Under the broad intense light of day the
waters of the Bay and the Canal shone like
burnished silver, all their turbidity hidden
from sight by the glare, as the darkness in
the heart of steel is masked by the polished
surface. Now and then a stray wayfarer
passed along the tow-path. A barge, piled
up high with yellow deals, trailed with
slackened rope after the leisurely horse.
The grass on the slope up from the tow-path
was still green and fresh with the rains
of recent spring. Beyond the wall at the
top of the bank burned a huge vermilion

show-van with golden letters flaming in the
light. The tiles of Bramwell's cottage
glowed a deep red under the blue sky.
Afar off factory chimneys, like prodigious
columns of some gigantic ruined fane, stood
up against the transparent air with diaphanous
capitals of blue smoke uniting them to
the blue vault above. From Welford
Bridge came the dull sound of heavy traffic,
and faintly caught from some deep distance
came the faint flapping beat of heavy
hammers driving metal bolts through the
stubborn oak of lusty ships. Sparrows
skipped on the ground and twittered in the
air. High up in the blue measures of the
sky a solitary crow sailed silently by unheeding.
All the world appeared dwelling
in an eternal calm of vital air and wholesome
light. All abroad seemed at peace
under the spell of a Sabbath sky.

Suddenly he became conscious of voices

near and beneath him. He looked out,
but could see no one.

The seem to come from the island,"
he thought, " and to be children's
voices."

"It's a 'bus," said one of the young
voices, " and I'm the driver."

No," said another young voice, but a
more resonant one than the former ; " it's a
tramcar, and I'm the driver."

"And I'm the conductor."

No ; I'm the conductor too." •

And what am I ? "

0, you're the people in the car. Fares,
please. Here, give me this piece of slate.
That's your fare. 0, I say, there's a coal
wagon on the line before us ! "

The other boy uttered a shrill cry.

"What's that?"

The whistle for the coal van to get out
of the way."

"But I am the driver, and you are not
to whistle."

Then I am the conductor, and the conductor
rings the belL"

No, you're not. I am the driver and
the conductor, and you are the people in
the tramcar, and all you have to do is
to sit still and pay your fare. Fares,
please."

I am not to pay my fare twice. I don't
like to be the people."

0, but you are to pay your fare again,
for we are coming back now, and you are
different people."

I don't like this game. Let us play
something else."

Very well. We'll play it's a boat, and
that you fall into the river, and I catch
you and pull you out, and "

Curse the brats, whoever they are ! "
cried Crawford fiercely, as he put his hand

on the sash and drove the window down
violently.

Freddie's words were purely accidental.
For neither he nor any one else had heard
from Hetty about Crawford's accident at
the Mercantile Pier. She had said no more
to her brother than that the landlord had
come about the gates for the ice-house, and
the subsequent alarming attempt at extortion
by Eed Jim had driven curiosity
regarding Crawford's visit out of Layard's
mind. Now that the latter had made up
his mind to get out of this house as soon as
possible, he cared little or nothing about
the doings of the owner, so long as the
owner kept his eccentricities within reasonable
limits. The talk which Layard had
with Bramwell on the subject of leaving
Crawford's house had made no lasting-impression
on the brother. When he was
by himself that night he made up his

mind finally on two points. First, he
would Lave Mrs. Grainger all day in the
house ; and, second, he would find a new
home as soon as he could get rid of the
present one.

The words of the child playing in the
old timber-yard of the Ait had an unpleasant
effect on Crawford. He did not
know who the child was, nor could he
bring himself to believe that his mishap at
the Mercantile Pier had anything to do
with the words overheard, and yet the
coincidence vexed him. He told himself it
was ridiculous to allow the circumstance to
disturb him, but he could not help himself.

I begin to think," he muttered, " that
sitting up does not agree with me. I must
be growing nervous. I ought to have
some sleep if I am to try my luck again tonight
— my luck and Hetty's," he added.
But if I sleep I must take care not to

overdo it. I don't want to be here when
that bearded ape of a brother of hers comes
in to dinner." He went to the head of the
stairs and called out to Mrs. Grainger to
knock at his door and tell him when it was
half-past two. Then he took off his coat,
waistcoat, and boots, and lay down on his
bed.

It was not quite as easy to go to sleep ashe
imagined it would be. The words of
the child kept ringing in his ears. If by
any chance the story of his fall into the
water reached Hetty's ears, it would not
improve his position in her mind. It
might, in fact, cover him with ridicule.
The bare thought of being laughed at
made him writhe and curse and swear.

Well, if he wanted to get any sleep, he
must put this nonsensical trouble out of his
head. He ought to be very sleepy, and
yet he felt strangely wakeful.

Then he could not say seriously to himself
that he had made much progress with
Hetty. Had he made any ? He did not,
of course, expect to find her in love with
him all at once, but he had hoped she would
show a little interest in him. If he must
tell himself the truth, the only interest she
showed in him was a desire to get him away
from herself or to get away from him. Ina
week or so that would be all changed, but
it was not pleasant just now.

Confound it ! " he muttered, turning
over on his other side, " if I keep going on
this way I shall not get a wink of sleep."

There was no more virtue in lying on
one side than the other. He successfully
banished from his mind any reflections that
might disturb him. He thought of all the
pleasant features of his present condition.
He had for ever cut himself adrift from
Singleton Terrace and the slavery to that

infatuated old fool, this wife. He had now
in his pocket, even after his losses of last
night, four times more money than ever he
had owned at one time in all this life before,
and lie had a weapon to defend himself
and his money. He had never possessed a
revolver or a pistol of any other kind until
now. He was absolutely secure against all
danger. No harm could come to him or
his money. He was afraid of nothing in

the world now, of no one Curse that

Philip Eay !

But he must remember that PhiHp Eay
could have nothing more than a revolver,
and that he himself had one, and at close
quarters such a weapon was as effective in
the hands of a man unaccustomed to its use
as in those of one who had practised shooting
hours a day for years.

No ; sleep would not come. Perhaps if
he put the revolver under his head the sense

of security its presence afforded would
soothe him into slumber.

He got up and took the weapon out of
the back pocket of his coat. He poised it
in his hand, and looked at it with mingled
feelings of timidity and admiration. He
cocked it, and took aim at spots on the wallpaper
a few inches above the level of his
own eye. " If Eay were there now, and I
pulled this trigger, he would be a dead man
in less than a minute. I do not want to kill
him. I should not fire except in self-defence.
But if I thought he meant any harm, I'd
save my life and put an end to his — the
murderous-minded scoundrel ! "

With the utmost care he lowered the
hammer and, thrusting the revolver under
his pillow, lay down again.

No ; he did not feel any inclination to
sleep. He counted a thousand ; he watched
a large flock of sheep go one by one through

a gap ; he repeated all the poetry he knew
by rote, and found himself as wakeful as
ever.

He tumbled and tossed about, and poured
out maledictions on his miserable condition.
He had not had experience of such a state
before. Until to-day he had possessed the
power of going to sleep at will. He had
never lain awake an hour in his life. This
was most tantalising, most exasperating.
He should not be fresh for the cards tonight.
He should be heavy and drowsy ^
when he wanted to be clear and bright.
How could he be fresh enough to play if he
did not get rest?

Could it be the burden of this money was
too great for him? Was he really apprehensive
of being robbed? Brereton had
told him it was dangerous to carry so
large an amount in cash about with him.

Had Brereton's words sunken into his mind,
VOL. in. 47

and were they now working on him unawares
? No one could gainsay the wisdom
of Brereton's caution. It was a dangerous
thing to go about the streets of London
with three thousand pounds in one's pocket.
But there was nothing else for it. He would
not put the money in an English bank, for
he could not get an introduction without
betraying himself, his presence in London,
and telling more of his affairs than he
desired. Lodging it in the Eichmond bank
was quite out of the question.

It was maddening to feel he could not
sleep. Could it really be he was, unknown
to himself, in dread of being plundered if
he lost consciousness ?

He opened his eyes and looked around
him. Then, with an angry exclamation, he
sprang up.

What an idiot I have been," he cried,
to leave the door unlocked ! My reason

must be going when I could be guilty of
such folly."

He turned the key in the lock. He
looked around the room. He had shut the
window to keep out the voices of the
children, but he had omitted to fasten it
down. He hasped it now. Then he went
to the chair on which his coat lay, took the
bundle of notes out of his breast-pocket,
and thrust it under the pillow of the bed
beside the revolver. He looked at his
watch. " One o'clock," he muttered. " Now*
for an hour and a half's sleep. I shall
wake fresh, and then be off to town."

Now and then he thousjlit his desire was.
about to be realised. Now and then for a
moment a confusion arose in his senses, and
he lost the sharp outlines of reality, only
to return to intense wakefulness and renewed
despair. \

I shall go mad ! " he cried in his heart.

47—2

Something tells me I shall go mad.
Between Eay, and the Club, and Singleton
Terrace, and Hetty, and the money, and
this want of sleep, I know I shall go mad.
Insomnia is one of the surest signs of
coming insanity. 0, it would be cruel —
cruel if anything happened to me now that
I have just won all ! I am free of Nellie ; I
have the money ; I have felt the influence
of Hetty's luck, and-will feel it again
to-night. If Hetty would only come
with me I should be out of the way of
Kate's brother. Curse him a thousand
times ! And now I feel my head is going,
my brain is turning. It isn't fair or just
after all the trouble I have taken. It is
horrible to think of losing everything now
that I have so much within my grasp. I
think that fall into the river and the meeting
with Kate afterwards must have hurt
my brain. And this sleeplessness, this

wearing sleeplessness, will finish the work !
0, it is too bad, too cruel ! It is not fair ! "

With a cry of despair he rose and began
pacing up and down the room, frantically
waving his hands over his head, and moaning
in his misery.

Mrs. Grainger knocked at the door.

"It's half-past two, sir."

"All right."

The voice of the woman acted like a
charm.

"What on earth," he asked himself,
pausing in his walk, " have I been fooling
about? I daresay that ducking and the
fright of it, and the meeting with Kate, and
the long repression at Singleton Terrace,
and the cards, and finding myself so near
Eay, and this bridge from the island to the
Quay, and having the anxiety of the money
on my mind, have all helped to put me a
little out of sorts, and therefore, like the

fool that I am, I must think I am going
mad. The only sign of madness there is
about me is that I should fancy such a
thing. Why, the mere lying down has
made me all right. I feel quite refreshed
and young again. And now I must off. I
don't want to meet that grinning bearded
oaf."

Crawford put on his coat, waistcoat, and
boots, replaced the money and the revolver
in his pockets, and went downstairs. He
could see Hetty through the open door of
the sitting-room, arranging the table for
dinner.

"I perceive'' he called out to her in a
blithe voice, " that you have opened up
communications with your Eobinson Crusoe.
You have got a plank, or a stage, or something,
from the Quay to the Ait."

0," said Hetty, " Eobinson Crusoe hasa
little boy the same age as our Freddie,

and Freddie goes over every day to play
verity young Crusoe, and that's v^hy the
stage is there."

"I heard children's voices from my room.
I suppose they belonged to Freddie and his
young friend ? "

Yes. You couldn't be within a mile
of the place without hearing Freddie's
voice."

Good-day."

Good-day." Crawford went to the door
and opened it. Suddenly a thought struck
him, and he closed the door and ran upstairs.
When he found himself in his own
room he shut the door, and said to himself
in a tone of reproach, " How stupid of me
not to think of that before. Why need I
carry all this money about with me when I
can leave the bulk of it here?"

He counted out twenty-five one hundred-pound
notes and locked them in a drawer.

He turned the key in the lock of the door
on the outside, and dropped it into his
pocket. Then he slipped down the stairs
noiselessly and gained the street without
seeing either Hetty or Mrs. Grainger.

I feel a new man now," he said to himself.
" There is about as much chance of
my going mad as of my being made Archbishop
of Canterbury. And now we shall
see if there is anything in my notion about
Hetty's luck. To-night will be the test."

fji^^

Crawled SLEEPS.

William Crawford was in a hurry away
from Welford, not in a hurry to the
Counter Club. His design was more to
escape a meeting with Layard, than to pickup
any of his gambling associates. " A
walk," he thought, " will do me good." So,
instead of taking the steamboat or airy
wheeled conveyance, he crossed Welford
Bridge at a quick pace and kept on,
heading west.

He felt that this day made an epoch in
his life. He had bidden good-bye to his
wife for ever. He had realised the fortune
for which he had schemed. He had put
himself under the tutelage of Hetty's luck.
He would shortly cut the past adrift. If

Nellie died soon — a tiling almost certain —
he would marry Hetty, leave the country
and settle down. Of course, whether his wife
died or not, Hetty must be his. That was
settled, both because he admired her more
than any other woman he had ever met
and because she had brought him luck,
and would bring him more. He knew, he
felt as sure he should win that night as he
did that the sun was shining above him.
If he did not win that night he should be
more astonished than if the sky now grew
dark and night came on before sunset. 0^
how delightful and fresh would life be in
the new world with Hetty and good luck
present, and all the dangers and troubles
and annoyances of the old world left behind
here, and banished from his mind for ever !
He had not felt so light and buoyant for
many a long day. What an absurd creature
he had been half-an-hour ago, with

his fears of going mad just because he had
been a little upset and deprived of sleep
for twenty-four hours !

He crossed the river by London Bridge
and loitered about the City for a couple
of hours. He felt that sensation of drowsiness
coming on him again. He knew he
could sleep no more now than when at
Welford. Again his mind became troubled,
and, shaking himself up, he exclaimed, " I
will not suffer this again. There is nothing
to rouse one up like the cards. Now to
test my theory of Hetty's luck." He hailed
a hansom and drove to the Counter Club.

The dinner at the club was excellent,
but he had little or no appetite. As a rule
he drank nothing but water. This evening
he felt so dull and out of sorts he had a
pint of champagne. It roused and cheered
him at first, and after a cup of coffee he
felt much better than he had all dav. Not

giving himself time to fall back into his
former dull and depressed condition, he
went straight to the card-room, where he
found more men than usual, and the play
already running high.

That night remains memorable in the
annals of the Counter Club. Play had
been going on from early in the afternoon.
Three brothers named Staples, members of
the club, had lately come into equal shares
of a large fortune left by a penurious old
uncle. This was the first evening they had
been at the Counter since they had got
their legacies, and they had agreed among
themselves to make a sensation. Up to
this night they had been obliged to shirk
high play, as their means were very limited
and no credit was given at the card-tables.
They were flush now, and had made up
their minds to play as long as they could
find any one to sit opposite them. When

they came into the card-room an hour
before Crawford they told a few friends
their intention. The news spread, and the
room filled to see the sport. Owing to the
high stakes there were fewer players and
a much greater number of spectators than
usual.

Now" thought Crawford, when he had
heard the news, "this will be a good test.
I am in no hurry, and I will give my luck,
Hetty's luck, a fair trial. I have about
^YQ hundred pounds, and I'll play as long
as they play if my money holds out."

There were six tables in the room, and
at each of three one of the brothers sat.
Crawford took his place at the table where
the eldest was playing.

At midnight Crawford was ten pounds
better off than at the beginning. This was
worse than to have lost listy. It was stupefying.
It was more like earning money at

a small rate an hour than winning money
at cards.

As the men at Crawford's table had resolved
to make a night of it, they adjourned
for half-an-hour at one o'clock for
supper. Crawford was still further disgusted
to find that now he had eight pounds more
than at starting. Eight pounds after f\.\e
hours ! Why, verily, the game did not
pay for the candle. And worse than the
paltriness of his winnings was this feeling
of drowsiness which had come on him again.
He now blamed the champagne for it. He
drank water this time.

At half past one play was resumed. The
dull heavy feeling continued, and at times
Crawford hardly knew what he was doing.
The night flew by. By four o'clock all the
lookers-on had left, and the room contained
only players. All the tables but one were
iiow deserted. At this one six men sat,

Crawford, the three Staples, and two other
members of the club.

By some extraordinary combination of
luck no money worth speaking of had
changed hands. All the players declared
they had never seen anything so level in
their lives. At this time there was a pause
in the play for light refreshment. Five of
the men had brandies and sodas, Crawford
had coffee. He looked at the counters before
him, and counted them with his eye.
He had been making money at something
like the rate of a day labourer. He had
won two or three sovereigns ! This wasn't
play, but slavery.

The other men had nothing sensational
to say ; they all declared they where pretty
much as they had started. No one had
gained much, and no one was much hurt.

'' Never saw such a thing in my life ! "
said the eldest Staples in amazement.

Nor I," said Crawford.
Shall we say seven for breakfast, and
then, if there is no change, we'll chuck it?"

"All right," choruses the others.
- At seven, however, there was a very
marked change : Crawford had won a
hundred and fifty pounds.

"That's better," said the eldest Staples.
I vote we go on."

He was two hundred and fifty to the
bad.

"Agreed," said the others.

Is any one sleepy ? "

I'm not, at all events," said Crawford.

He could hardly keep his eyes open, and
his head and limbs felt like lead.

At eight o'clock play was resumed, and
Crawford's good luck continued. But he
went on like a man in a dream. Now and
then he lost all consciousness of his surroundings
for a moment, and even when

aroused he seemed only half awake ; but
though he was playing automatically, his
good fortune kept steadily increasing the
heap of counters at his left elbow.

At noon a few of the men who had been
spectators the evening before came in to
learn how the sitting had ended. They
were overwhelmed with astonishment and
envy when they heard that play had been
continued all through the night and was
still going on. They dropped into the card-room
to see how the company bore the.
wear and tear of the night, and to gather
how matters stood.

At one o'clock another halt was called

for luncheon. The position of the players

was then ascertained approximately. Two

of the Staples and one of the other men

had lost heavily, the youngest Staples had

won a trifle, the other man was fifty pounds

to the good, and William Crawford found
VOL. in. 48

himself in possession of sixteen hundred
pounds, or eleven hundred more than when
he sat down.

"Have we not had enough of it?" he
asked of the eldest Staples ; " I feel very
tired."

0," cried Staples, " let us go on till one
of us gives in. If luck keeps on as it has
been running I shall be dished soon. Then
we can stop."

All right," said Crawford. To himself
he said, " If the play leaves off before midnight
I know I shall increase my winnings,
for Hetty's luck will be with me till then."

At seven o'clock young Staples said,
What about dinner ? "

0, hang dinner ! " cried his brother.
"Let us play until I'm cleaned out. I
mean to stop at another hundred."

Crawford felt himself nod more than once
between that and nine o'clock. He could no

longer readily distinguish hearts from
diamonds or spades from clubs. He heard
noises in his ears, and every now and then
he had to shake himself up sharply to make
himself realise where he was.

'* Crawford, you've falling asleep," said
the eldest of the brothers, " and I've got
beyond that hundred. Shall we stop?
Were been at it twenty-four hours."

I've been at it nearly thirty-six," said
Crawford, rising. " I have had no sleep for
forty-eight hours. I cannot see the cards. '^

Shall we all dine together ? " asked
Staples. "This is an occasion which we
ought to mark in some way or other."

For my part," said Crawford, " I could
eat nothing. I could not swallow a morsel
until I sleep. I shall take a hansom and
drive home."

As he stumbled stupidly into the cab

that evening he carried away from the

48-2

Counter Club two hundred pounds in gold,
four hundred in notes, and sixteen hundred
in cheques, making in all twenty-two hundred
pounds, or seventeen hundred pounds
more than he had brought into it the
evening before. He directed the man to
drive to Welford Bridge, and then settled
himself comfortably in a corner to sleep
on the way.

Before falling asleep he put his hand
into his back pocket to ascertain if the
revolver was there. " It's all right," he
muttered. " After all, it's a great comfort
to have it and to know I can defend myself
and protect my money. But in reality, it
isn't my money, but Hetty's. She brought
me the luck. That's as plain as — " He
started and stopped for a moment. A vivid
flash of lightning had roused and stopped
him for a second. " That's as plain as the
lightning I have just seen." Before the

long roll of the distant thunder died in
the east he was asleep.

In little over an hour the cab reached
the South London Canal. The driver raised
the trap in the roof, and shouted down :

Welford Bridge, sir."

0, ay," said Crawford, half awake.
"What is it?"

"This is Welford Bridge, sir."

"Very good; I'll walk the rest of the
way."

He got out and paid the man. Vain
was now falling in perpendicular torrents.
Every minute the sky was filled with
dazzling pulses of swift blue flame. The
crash and tear and roar of thunder was
almost continuous.

Crawford was conscious of flashes and
clash and crash overhead, and rain descending
like a confluence of waterspouts, but
he did not feel quite certain whether all

was the work of this imagination in dreams
or of the material elements.

Dazed for want of sleep, and half-stunned
by the clamour of the sky, and rendered
slow and torpid by the clinging warm
wetness of his clothes, he staggered along
belford Eoad and down Crawford Street.

I shall sleep well to-night," he thought,
grinning grimly at his present uncomfortable
plight.

Arrived at the door, he opened it with
his latchkey. He stumbled along into the
back hall with the intention of shaking the
rain off his clothes before going up to his
room.

The door on the quay from the back
hall was wide open. He stood at it and
looked out. The light from the kitchen
pierced the gloom, and the rain streamed
across the wet and glittering floating stage.

At that moment three pulses of fierce

blue light beat from sky to earth, illumining
vividly, everything which distance or the
rain did not hide.

William Crawford saw by the swift blue
light from heaven the form of a woman
advancing towards him across the stage.
He saw that she held an umbrella open
above her head. He saw that she had red
spots on her thin and worn face. He knew
that this woman was Kate Mellor of three
years back, the woman who had rescued him
from death a few days ago.

It was plain she did not recognise him,
he standing between her and the light in
the hall. She said, shaking the umbrella :

I brought this for you, Philip."

Philip! Her brother! Philip Eay, her

brother, who had sworn to kill him, must

therefore be absolutely in the house under

.whose roof he now stood. Monstrous!

He turned swiftly round with a view to

gaining the foot of the stairs and dashing
up before he could be recognised.

Under the light of the hall-lamp, and
advancing towards him, was Philip Eay,
Kate's brother. For a moment Philip stood
stock still, regarding the other fixedly.
Then with a yell the brother sprang forward,
crying :

"By , 'tis he at last! 'Tis Ains-worth

! "

With a shriek of terror and despair
Crawford bounded through the open door
out on the narrow quay, and turned sharply
to the left. In a second Eay sprang out
on the quay in pursuit. The darkness was
so intense he could not see which way
Crawford had taken. For a moment he
stood in the light coming through the
doorway.

It was at this instant Kate Bramwell
stepped ashore off the stage. As she did

SO two flashes in quick succession burst from
the heavens. By this light she perceived
Crawford standing half-a-dozen paces to
the left of the back-door. She recognized
him instantly. She saw that he had his
right arm raised and extended on a line
with his shoulder in the direction of her
brother. She saw in his hand something
metallic gleam in the lightning. With
one bound she clasped her brother and
strove with all her power to drag him
down to the ground out of the line . of
the weapon. There was a snap, a loud
report, and with a pang of burning pain
in her shoulder, she fell insensible to the
ground.

The thunder burst forth in a deafening
roar.

The man who had fired the shot turned
and fled headlong, he knew not, cared not,
whither.

Suddenly lie tripped over something
and shot forward. He thrust out his hands
to break his fall. They touched nothing.
His whole body seemed to hang suspended
in air for an instant. Then his hands and
arms shot into water. His face was dashed
against the smooth cold surface, and a
boisterous tumult of water was in his
ears, and his breathing ceased.

The ice-house ! No gates ! Why do
I not rise ? If I do he will kill me. I
cannot get out of this without help, and
he is the only one near who could help,
and he would kill me, would with pleasure
see me drown a thousand times.
When I rise I shall shout, come what may.
I wonder is he dead ? Why do I not
rise ? . . . Yes, now I know why I
do not rise. The gold, the two hundred
pounds in gold ; and my clothes are already
soaked through. I shall never rise. I

need struggle no more. I am going,
going red - banded before the face of
God."

That night William Crawford slept under
ten feet of water, on the bed of ooze and
slime, at the bottom of the flooded ice-house
on Crawford's Bay.

The wounded woman never spoke again,
never recovered consciousness. She passed
peacefully away in the fresh clear light
of early day.

It was not until the evening after the
fatal night that, at the suggestion of Bayliss,
the water of the flooded ice-house was
dragged, and the body of William Crawford
discovered. In the case of Kate Bramwell
a verdict of wilful murder was brought
in by the coroner's jury against William
Crawford. In his own case the jury said
that he was found drowned in the flooded
ice-house, but how he happened to get

into the water there was no evidence to
show.

Mrs. Farraday, who came at once to
Eichmond on receiving Crawford's letter,
was careful to let no newspaper containing
any account of the Welford tragedy near
Mrs. Crawford. The patient and gentle
invalid was gradually sinking. She never
complained to any one of his desertion.
She never told a soul of the money she had
given him. Whatever she thought of his
letter to her she kept to herself. Her evidence,
no doubt, would have been required
at the inquest if her health had been ordinary.
But Dr. Loftus certified that the
mere mention of his death would in all
likelihood prove fatal to her.

About a month after his death she said
one evening to Mrs. Farraday :

I should like to get one letter from my
husband, announcing his safe arrival before

I go on my long journey. But it is not to
be. I shall not be here when the letter
comes. Let no one open it. Let it be
burnt unopened. The letters between a
husband and wife ought to be sacred."

She was afraid something in it might
militate against the good opinion in which
those who had met Crawford in Eichmond
had held him.

One morning, about six weeks after the
inquest, Mrs. Farraday thought the stricken
woman was sleeping longer than usual .as
she had not rung her bell by half-past nine
o'clock. Mrs. Farraday went to the bed
and found the poor sufferer had glided from
the troubled sleep of life into the peaceful
sleep of eternity.

It is a mercy," said the good and kindhearted
woman, " that she never knew the
truth."

It is now two years since that awful

nio^ht. Once more Boland's Ait is uninhabited
; once more no one dwells on the
shore of Crawford's Bay. But in a very
small but comfortable and pretty house in
one of the leafy roads of the south-east district,
and not far from the great Welford
Gasworks, live in amity and cheerful concord
two small families consisting of Alfred
Layard and his little son Freddie, and Philip
Eay, his wife Hetty, and their tiny baby
girl, who is called after the mother, but
always spoken of as Hester by the
mother, because of the great seriousness
with which young mothers ever regard
their first little babes. Hetty declares
Hester to be the wisest child in all the
realms of the empire, for she never by any
chance utters a sound during the two hours
each evening that Philip is busy with his
pupils.

Bramwell lives with his boy in a cottage

at Barnet, where lie is preparing for the
press a selection from articles written by
him in magazines during the past two
years.

THE END.

KELLY AND CO., MIDDLE MILL, KINGSTON-ON-THAMES;

AND GATE STllEET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS, W.O.

3 0112 042260528

tflfii/e^mMMB&f^^tl^^
