OF THE

U N I Verity

OF alli Noise

<523
D756w

31 romance.

BY

Richard DOWLING,

Author 07 "THE MYSTERY OF Killed."

In ^ hr.ee "Bohxmzs.

VOL. I.

LONDON :
TINSLEY BROTHERS, 8, CATHERINE ST., STRAND.

1880.
[All rights reserved']

&7J~W
■>. /

TO

Edmund POWER, ESQ.,

OF SPRINGFIELD,

Hose kiribmss to ^ttns anb tu J&*

I SHALL NEVER FORGET

WHILE I AM.

"0

Part &— % plain Sol ^uarB*

CHAP.

I. — A CONSCIENTIOUS BURGLAR .

II. — A GENEROUS BANKER
III. — THE MANOR HOUSE
IV. — AN UNSELFISH MOTHER .

V. — AN UNSELFISH FATHER .

VI. — "TO THE ISLAND OR TO "

VII. — TRUSTEE TO CANCELLED PAGES
VIII. — WAT GREY'S ROMANCE DIES OUT
IX. — A FLASK OF COGNAC

X. — ON THE THRESHOLD OF DEATH
XL — BY THE STATE BED.















Part I. A PLAIN GOLD GUARD.

Chapter I.

A CONSCIENTIOUS BURGLAR.

Mr. Henry Walter Grey sat in his
dining-room sipping claret on the evening
of Monday, the 27th August, 1866. His
house was in the suburbs of the city of
Sandford.

Mr. Grey was a man of about fortyfive
years of age, looking no more than
thirty-eight. He was tall, broad, without
the least tendency to corpulency, and yet
pleasantly rounded and full. There was

vol. i. 1

no angularity or harshness in his face or
figure. The figure was active looking
and powerful, the face open, joyous, and
benignant. , The hair had begun to thin
at his forehead ; this gave his face a
soothing expression of contented calm.

His forehead was broad and white;
his eyes were constant, candid, and kindly;
his nose was large, with quickly-mobile sensitive
nostrils; and his mouth well formed
and full, having a sly twist at one corner,
indicating strong sympathy with humour.
He wore neither beard nor moustache.

His complexion was bright without
being florid, fair without being white. His
skin was smooth as a young girl's cheek.
He stood six feet without his boots. He
was this evening in the deepest mourning
for his wife, whom he had lost on Friday,
the 17th of that month, August.

Although he occupied one of the most
important positions in Daneford, no person

who knew him, or had heard of him from a
Danefordian, ever called him either Henry
or Walter. He was universally known as
Wat Grey. Daneford believed him to be
enormously rich. He was the owner of
the Daneford Bank, an institution which
did a large business and held its head high.

Indeed, in Daneford it was almost
unnecessary to add the banker's surname
to his Christian name ; and if anyone
said, " Wat did so-and-so," and you asked,
*' Wat who ? " the purveyor of the news
would know you for an alien or a nobody
in the city.

The young men worshipped him as
one of themselves, who, despite his gaiety
and lightheadedness, had prospered in the
world, and kept his youth and made
his money, and was one of themselves
still, and would continue to be one of
them as long as he lived.

Elder men liked him for the solid

prudence which guided all his business
transactions, and which, while it enabled
him to be with the young, allowed him
to exercise over his juniors in years the
influence of an equal combined with the
authority of experience. Lads of twenty
never thought of him as a fogey, and
men of thirty looked upon him as a
younger man, who had learned the folly
of vicious vanities very much sooner than
others ; and consequently they confided
in him, and submitted themselves to him
with docility. Young men assembled at
his house, but there were no orgies ;
elder men came, and went away cheered
and diverted, and no whit the less rich
or wise because discussions of important
matters had been enlivened with interludes
of gayer discourse.

Wat Grey was one of the most
active men in Daneford. He was Chairman
of the Chamber of Commerce, of

the Commercial Club, and of the
Harbour Board.

He was Vice-chairman of the Daneford
Boat Club, and Treasurer of the Poor
Christmas Coal Fund.

If he was rich, he was liberal. He
subscribed splendidly to all the local
charities, but never as a public man or
as owner of the Daneford Bank. What
he thought it wise to give he always
sent from "Wat," as though he prized
more highly the distinction of familiarity
his town had conferred upon him than
any conventional array of Christian and
surnames, or any title of cold courtesy
or routine right. It was not often
he dropped from his cheerful level of
high-spirited and rich animal enjoyment
into sentimentalism, but on one occasion
he said to young Feltoe : " I'd rather be
Wat ' to my friends than Sir Thingumbob
Oiggamarigs to all the rest of the world."

There was nothing Daneford could have
refused him. He had been mayor, and
could be Liberal member of Parliament
for the ancient and small constituency
any time he chose when the Liberal seat
was vacant. Daneford was one of those
constituencies which give one hand to one-side
and the other hand to the other, and
have no hand free for action. Walter
Grey had always declined the seat ; he
would say :

"I'm too young yet, far too young.
As I grow older, I shall grow wiser and
more corrupt. Then you can put me in y
and I shall have great pleasure in ratting
for a baronetcy. Ha, ha, ha ! "

Of late, however, it had been rumoured
the chance of getting the rich banker to
consent to take the seat (this was the way
everyone put it) had increased, and that
he mio'ht be induced to stand at the next
vacancy. Then all who knew of his

personal qualities, his immense knowledge
of finance, and his large fortune, said that
if he chose he might be Chancellor of the
Exchequer in time ; and after his retirement
from business, and purchase of an estate,
the refusal of a peerage was certain to
come his way.

As he sat sipping his claret that
Monday evening of the 27th of August,
1866, his face was as placid as a secret
well. Whether he was thinking of his
dead wife and sorrowing for her, or
revolving the ordinary matters of his
banking business, or devising some scheme
for the reduction of taxation in the city,
or dallying mentally with the sirens who
sought to ensnare him in parliamentary
honours, could no more be gathered from
his face than from the dull heavy clouds
that hung low over the sultry land abroad.

It was not often he had to smoke his
after-dinner cigar and sip his after-dinner

claret alone ; men were always glad to dine
with him, and lie was always glad to have
them ; but the newness of his black clothes
and of the bands on his hats in the hall
accounted for the absence of guests. He
was not dressed for dinner. One of the
things which had made his table so free
and jovial was that a man might sit down
to it in a coat of any cut or colour, and
in top-boots and breeches if he liked.
Before his bereavement he would say :

Mrs. Grey — although she may not sit
with us — has an antiquated objection to
a man dining in his shirt-sleeves. I have
often expostulated with her unreasonable
prejudice, but I can't get her to concede
no coat at all You may wear your hat
and your gloves if you like, but for
Heaven's sake come in a coat of some kind.
If you can't manage a coat, a jacket will
do splendidly."

Mrs. Grey never dined out. In fact,

she saw little company ; tea was always
sent into the dining-room.

Mr. Grey had not got more than halfway
through his cigar on that evening of
the 27th of August when a servant knocked
and entered.

The master, whose face was towards
the window, turned round his head slowly,
and said in a kindly voice :
Well, James, what is it 1 "
A man, sir, wants to see you."
James was thick-set, low-sized, nearsighted,
and dull. He had been a private
soldier in a foot regiment, and had been
obliged to leave because of his increasing
near-sightedness. But he had been long
enough in uniform to acquire the accomplishment
of strict and literal attention
to orders, and the complete suspension
of his own faculties of judgment and
discretion. Although his master was
.several inches taller than James, the latter

looked in the presence of the banker like
a clumsy elephant beside an elegant
panther.

A man wants to see me ! " cried Mr.
Grey, in astonishment, not unmixed with
a sense of the ridiculous. " What kind
of a man ? and what is his business."

He glanced good-humouredly at James,
but owing to the shortness of the servant's
sight the expression of the master's face
was wasted in air.

James, who had but a small stock of
observation and no fancy, replied respectfully
:

He seems a common man, sir ; like
a man you'd see in the street."

Ah," said Mr. Grey, with a smile ;
that sort of man, is it % Ah ! Which,
James, do you mean : the sort of man
you'd see walking in the streets, or
standing at a public-house corner 1 "

Again Mr. Grey smiled at the droll

illness and roller simplicity of his
servant.

A gleam of light came into James's-
dim eyes upon finding the description
narrowed down to the selection of one
of two characteristics, and he said, ina
voice of solemn sagacity :

The back of his coat is dirty, sir,
as if he'd been leaning against a public-house
wall."

Or as if he had been carrying a sack
of corn on his back % " demanded the
master, laughing softly, and brushing
imaginary cigar-ashes off the polished
oak-table with his white curved little
finger.

For a moment James stood on his
heels in stupefied doubt and dismay at
this close questioning. He was a man of
action, not of thought. Had his master
shouted, " Eight wheel — quick march ! "
he would have gone out of the window,

through the glass, without a murmur and
without a thought of reproach ; but to
be thus interrogated on subtleties of
appearance made him feel like a blindfold
man, who is certain he is about to be
attacked, but does not know where, by
whom, or with what weapon. He resolved
to risk all and escape.

I think, sir, it was a public-house,
for I smelt liquor."

That is conclusive," said the master,
laughing out at last. " That is all right,
James. I am too lazy to so down to
see him. Show him up here. Stop a
moment, James. Let him come up in five
minutes."

The servant left the room, and as he
did so the master laughed still more
loudly, and then chuckled softly to
himself, muttering :

He thought the man had been leaning
against a public-house because he smelt

of liquor ! Ha, ha, ha ! My quaint
James, you will be the death of your
master. You will, indeed."

When he had finished his laugh he
dismissed the idea of James finally with
a roguish shrug of his shoulders and wag
of his head.

Then he drew down the cavalier,
pushed an enormous easy-chair in front
of the empty fire-place, pulled a small
table between the dining-table and the
easy-chair, and placed an ordinary oak
and green dining-room chair at the corner
of the dining-table near the window ;
then he sat down on the ordinary chair.

When this was done he ascertained
that the drawer of the small table opened
easily, closed in the drawer softly, threw
himself back in his own chair and began
smoking slowly, blowing the smoke towards
the ceiling without taking the cigar from
his lips, and keeping his legs thrust out

before him, and his hands deep in his
trousers-pockets.

Presently the door opened ; James said,
The man, sir ! " the door closed again,
and all was still.

Come over and sit down, my man,"
said the banker, in a good-natured tone
of voice, without, however, removing his
eyes from the ceiling.

To this there was no reply by either
sound or gesture.

Mr. Grey must have been pursuing
some humorous thought over the ceiling ;
for when he at last dropped his eyes and
looked towards the door, he said, with a
quiet sigh, as though the ridiculous in
the world was killing him slowly : " It's
too droll, too droll." Then to the man,
who still stood just inside the door :
Come over here and sit down, my man.
I have been expecting a call from you.
Come over and sit down. Or would you

prefer I should send the brougham for
you?"

As he turned his eyes round, they
fell on the figure of a man of forty, who,
with head depressed and shoulders thrust
up high, and a battered, worn sealskin-cap
held in both hands close together,
thumbs uppermost, was standing on "one
leg, a model of abject, obsequious servility.

The man made no reply ; but as Mr.
Grey's eyes fell upon him he substituted
the leg drawn up for the one on which he
had been standing, thrust up his shoulders,
and pressed down his head in token of
unspeakable humility under the honour
of Mr. Grey's glance, and of profound
gratitude for the honour of Mr. Grey's
speech.

Come, my man ; do come over and
sit down. The conversation is becoming
monotonous already. Do come over, and
sit down here. I can't keep on saying

1 come ' all the evening. I assure you I
have expected this call from you. Do
come and sit down."

Mr. Grey motioned the man to the
large easy-chair in front of him.

At last the man moved, stealthily,
furtively, across the carpet, skirting the
furniture cautiously, as though it consisted
of infernal-machines which might go off

o o

at any moment. His dress was ragged
and torn ; his face, a long narrow one,
of mahogany colour ; his eyes were bright
full blue, the one good feature in his shy
unhandsome countenance.

Sit in that chair," said Mr. Grey
blandly, at the same time waving his
hand towards the capacious and luxurious
easy-chair.

Please, sir, I'd rather stand," said
the man, in a low sneaking tone.

The contrast between the two was
remarkably striking : the one, large and

liberal of aspect, gracious and humorous
of manner, broad-faced, generous-looking,
perfectly dressed, scrupulously neat ; the
other, drawn together, mean in form,
narrow of features, with avaricious mouth
and unsteady eye, with ragged and soiled
clothes.

Sit down, my good man ; sit down
I assure you the conversation will continue
to be very monotonous until you take my
advice, and sit down in that chair. You
need not be afraid of spoiling it. Sit
down, and then you may at your leisure
tell me what I can do for you."

Mr. Grey may have smiled at the
whim of Nature in forging such a counterfeit
of human nature as the man before
him, or he may have smiled at the obvious
dislike with which his visitor surveyed
the chair. The smile, however, was a
pleasant, cordial, happy one. He drew in
his legs, sat upright, and, leaning his left

vol. I. 2

elbow on the small table before him,
pointed to the chair with his right hand,
and kept his right hand fixed in the attitude
of pointing until the man, with a
scowl at the chair and a violent upheaval
of his shoulders and depression of his
head, sank among the soft cushions.

Now we shall get on much more
comfortably," said Mr. Grey, placing what
remained unmoved of his cigar on the
ash-tray beside him, clasping his hands
over his waistcoat, and bending slightly
forward to indicate that his best attention
was at the disposal of his visitor.
"What is your name?"

Joe Farley."

Joe Farleg, Joe Farleg," mused, half
aloud, Mr. Grey. "An odd name. Why
am I fated always to meet people with
odd ways or odd names ? Well, never
mind answering that question, Joe," he
said, more loudly, in an indulgent tone,

as though he felt he would be violating
kindliness by insisting on a reply which
had little or nothing to do with Farleg.
He continued, " I don't think I have ever
seen you or heard your name before ;
and although I did not think it improbable
you, or someone like you, would call, I
could not know exactly whom I was to
see. Before we go any farther, I ask
you : Haven't I been good to you without
even knowing who you were ? "

"Good to me, sir!" cried the man,
in surprise.

Yes ; I have been very good to you
in not setting the police after you."

The man tried to struggle up out of
the chair, but, unused to a seat of the
kind, struggled for a moment in vain.
At last he gained his feet, and with an
oath demanded : " How did you know I
did it ? Are you going to set them after
me now ? " His blue eyes swiftly explored

the room to find if the officers had sprung
out of concealment, and to ascertain the
chances of his escape.

With a kindly wave of his hand,
Mr. Grey indicated the chair. " I have
not even spoken to the police about the
matter, and I do not intend speaking to
them. Sit down in your chair, Joe, and
let us talk the matter over quietly."

I'm d — d if I sit in that chair
assail. It smothers meo



He regarded the banker with uneasiness
and the chair with terror.

Mr. Grey laughed outright. The laughter
seemed to soothe Farleg a little. He
cast his large blue eyes once more hastily
round the room, then regarded the banker
for an instant, and dropped his glance
upon the chair.

Nothing could have been more reassuring
than the brilliantly-lighted diningroom,
the good-natured, good-humoured

face of its master, and the harmlessly
seductive appearance of the chair. Farleg
was ashamed of his fears ; upon another
invitation, and an assurance that nothing
farther would be said by his host until
he had returned to his former position,
he threw himself once more into the
comfortable seat.

"And now, Joe, that we are in a
position to go on smoothly, what can I
do for you ?"

"You remember, sir, the night of the
robbery, sir ? "

Yes ; you broke into my house, into
one of the tower-rooms, on the evening
of the 17th of this month, and you carried
off a few things of no great value."

And you're not going to send the
police after me ? "

No."

Farleg leaned forward in his chair
until his elbows rested on his knees.

You missed the things. You said
a while ago you expected me, or whoever
did the robbery ; was that a true word?
Did you expect whoever did the robbery
to come and see you ? "

I did. I could not be sure you would
come, but when I missed the things I
thought you might call. There was, of
course, the chance you might not."

That's it. "Well, I have come, you
see. I found some rings, and I kept
three ; but I thought you might like to
have this one, and I brought it to you,
as I am about to leave the country.
Look at it. It's a plain gold guard."

As Farleg said these words his eyes,
no longer wandering, fixed themselves on
the face of Mr. Grey.

For an instant the face of the banker
puckered and wrinkled up like a blighted
leaf. Almost instantly it smoothed out
again ; and, with a bland smile, he said :

"Thank you very much. It was my
poor wife's guard ring. You were very
kind to think of bringing* it back to me."

As he spoke he began softly opening
the drawer of the little table that stood
between him and the burglar.

A GENEROUS BANKER.

The ring lay on the little table. Mr. Grey
did not take it up, but left it where Farleg
had placed it.

When the banker had pulled out the
drawer half-a-dozen inches, he looked up
from the ring, and, with a glance of kindly
interest, said :

So you intend leaving the country.
Why? And where do you purpose going?"

Farleg looked down at his boots, and
thrust up his shoulders as he answered :

Well, sir, things are getting hot, and
the place is getting hot. It isn't everyone
has so much consideration as you

for a man who has to live as best he
can

"Poor fellow!"

"And if I and the old woman don't
clear out of this soon, why, they'll be
sending me away, ' Carriage paid : with
care.' "

He paused, raised his head, and turned
those prominent blue eyes on the face of
the banker. The latter was drawing small
circles on the table in front of him with
the white forefinger of his left hand, his
eyes intently followed his finger, his
white right hand rested on the edge of
the partly open drawer.

Mr. Grey said, softly and emphatically :
"I understand, I understand. Go on, and
don't be afraid to speak plainly, Joe. May
I ask you what you were before you devoted
yourself to your present — profession?
Your conversation and way of putting
things are far above the average of men

of your calling ; " with a smile of sly
interest.

I was a clerk, sir," answered the
man meekly.

"In a bank ? " demanded the banker,,
looking up brightly.

"No, sir; in a corn-store."

Ah, I thought it couldn't have been
in a bank. We are not so fortunate a&
to have men of your talents and enterprise
in banks. But I interrupted you. Pray,

proceed. You were about to say " The

invitation was accompanied by a gracious-and
encouraging wave of the left hand.

I was thinking, sir, that it would
be best if I went away of my own accord;
and I thought I'd just mention this matter
to you when I called with the guard ring
of your good lady that's dead and gone."

"quite right, quite right. And naturally
you thought that I might be willing
to lend you a hand on your way, partly

out of feeling for you in your difficult
position, and partly out of gratitude to
you for your kind though fulness in bringing
me back the guard ring of poor
Mrs. Grey."

The white forefinger of the white left
hand went on quietly describing the circles,
but the circles were one after the other
increasing in circumference. The white
right hand still rested on the edge of
the partly-open drawer.

That's it," said Farleg, with a sigh of
relief. It was such a comfort to deal
with a sensible man, a man who did
most of the talking and thinking for you.
You know, sir, I found the rings "

Quite so, quite so."

Mr. Grey gave up describing circles, and
for a while devoted himself to parallelograms.
When he had finished each figure
he regarded the invisible design for a while
as though comparing the result of his labour

with an ideal parallelogram. Then, becoming
dissatisfied with his work, he began afresh.

Quite so," he repeated, after a silence
of a few moments. " You need not trouble
yourself to go into detail. In fact, I
prefer you should not, as my feelings
are still much occupied with my great
loss. Will you answer a few questions
that may help to allay and soothe my
feelings ? "

He ceased drawing the parallelograms,
and looked up at the other with a glance
of friendly enquiry.

Farleg threw himself back in his chair,
and replied gravely : " I'll answer you,
sir, any question it may please you to
put."

"At what hour on the evening of the
17th did you break into this house ? "

Eight o'clock."

By Jove, Joe, you were an adventurous
fellow to break into a house in

daylight ! I do think, in the face of such
an enterprising spirit, you ought to seek
a new country, where you would be properly
appreciated. You have no chance here. Goto
some place where the telegraph has not
yet struck root. And yet for a man of
your peculiar calling a dense population
and civilisation are requisite. Your case,
Joe, interests me a good deal, and, rely
upon it, I shall always be glad to hear
of your welfare and prosperity. I feel
for you in your little difficulty, and I applaud
your boldness. Fancy, breaking into
a man's house at eight o'clock of an August
evening ! And how did you get in, Joe ?
I suppose by a ladder the workman had
left against the wall 1 "

Yes, sir. It was seeing a ladder
against the wall that put the idea into
my head."

The banker looked at Farleg with an
expression of unlimited admiration.

"what a general you would make,
Joe !" cried Mr. Grey, in pleasant enthusiasm.
" You would use every bulrush
as cover for your men ! And so, when
you saw the ladder against the wall, you
thought to yourself you might as well
slip up that ladder and have a look
round ? What a pushing man of business
too ! And you were alone ? ' !

Yes."

"You entered the tower first-floor,
and gathered up a few things, this ring
of my poor wife among the rest. But
I don't think you went into any other

if

room £

"No, sir."

And I don't think you could have
been very long in the room ; now, about
how long ? "

Short of an hour. I heard you
coming back, and I cleared out then."

Ah ! You heard me coming back,

and you cleared out then. Quite so. No
doubt it was inconsiderate of me to
come back and disturb you. But, you
know, I was in a great state of anxiety
and alarm — anxiety and alarm which
were unfortunately only too well founded,
as you, no doubt, have heard ; we need
not dwell on that painful event now.
May I ask you if you have spoken of
this affair to anyone ? "

"No."

"Not to a soul?"

"Not to a soul."

"What a discreet general you would
make ! Upon my word I think you
ought to go to California. San Francisco
is the place for one so daring and so
cautious. What a dashing cavalry leader
you would make ! And yet it would bea
pity to throw you away on cavalry.
Your natural place would be in the
engineers."

Mr. Grey half closed his eyes, and
gazed dreamily for a few seconds at the
reclining figure of the man before him.
Then hitching his chair a few inches
nearer to the small table standing between
him and Farleg, he said, in a drawling
tone, as he softly slipped his hand into
the drawer :

I admire you for your ingenuity in
availing yourself of that ladder, and for
your boldness in entering the house in
daylight. But I am completely carried
away with enthusiasm when I think of
your coming here to me, telling me this
tale, and preserving the admirable calmness
which you display. Indeed, Joe, I
am amazed."

Thank you, sir."

"Now, how much money did you
think I'd be likely to give to help you
out of this scrape, and out of this
country % "

"Mr. Grey, you're a rich man."

The banker bowed and smiled.

"And that ring ought to be worth a
heap of money to you."

"A guinea, or perhaps thirty shillings.
At the very most I should say two
pounds."

But, sir, considering that it was your
wife's, and that she wore it on the very
day—"

Quite so. On the very day of her
wedding -"

That is not what I meant "

But that is the aspect of the affair
which endears the ring to me. Pray let
us keep to the business in hand. You
bring me a ring which I own I should
not like you to have kept from me. You
make me a present of this ring, and you
ask me to help you out of the country.
Now, how much would be sufficient to
help you out of the country, and settle

VOL. I. 3

you and your wife comfortably in a new
home ? "

A thousand pounds."

A thousand pounds ! My dear Joe,
if you were about to represent the majesty
of the kingdoms of Great Britain and
Ireland at a foreign court, you could
ask little more for travelling expenses
and commencing existence. A thousand
pounds ! What a lucrative business yours
must have been to make you hope you
could get a thousand pounds for the
goodwill of it ! "

But it is not every day a thing like
this turns up. You have a lot of waiting
before you get your chance. In fact, my
chance did not belong to the ordinary
business at all."

Quite so. It was a kind of perquisite.
Well, now, Joe, don't you think
if I gave you twenty-five pounds as a
present it would fully provide for your

outward voyage ? ' ; Mr. Grey made the
proposal with a winning and an enticing
gesture of his left hand.

Farleg looked down at his boots again,
and said very slowly, and with an accent
that left no doubt of his earnestness and
determination :

It isn't often a chance of this kind
turns up, and I can't afford to let it
pass ; no honest man could afford to let
it pass, and I have a wife looking to me.
You have no one looking to you, not
even a wife — not even a wife."

Quite so."

"Well, I want the money. I want
to try and get an honest start in life,
and I think I shall buy land "

Out of the thousand pounds ? "
queried Mr. Grey, with a look of amused
enjoyment.

Out of the thousand pounds you are
going to give me. Can't you see," added

Farleg, sitting up in his chair, leaning
both his elbows on the small table between
them, " can't yon see it's to your advantage
as well as mine to give me a large



sum 5

Candidly I cannot' answered Mr.
Grey, tapping Farleg encouragingly on
the shoulder with his white left hand.
Tell me how it is. I am quite willing
to be convinced."

"Well, if I take your five-and-twenty,
I spend it here, or I spend it getting
there, and then I'm stranded, don't you
see, sir \

Go on." With two soft appreciative
pats from the left white hand.

Of course, as soon as I find myself
hard up I come to you, or I write to you
for more, and that would only be wasting
your time."

But," said Mr. Grey, with a sly look
and a sly wag of his head, " if you got

the thousand you might spend it here
or there, and then you might again be
applying to me. Ah, no ! Joe, I don't
think it would do to give you that thousand.
You can have the twenty-five now,
if you like."

Well, sir, I've looked into the matter
deeper than that. When you give me
the thousand, I and my wife will leave
this country, go to America, out West,
and buy land. There we shall settle
down as respectable people, and it would
be no advantage to me to rake up the
past, once I was settled down and prosperous.
So, sir, if you please, I'll have
the thousand."

There was respectful resolution in
Farleg's voice as he spoke. The faces of
the two men were not more than a foot
apart now. They were looking as straight
into one another's eyes as two experienced
fencers when the play begins. Mr. Grey's

face ceased to move, and took a settled
expression of gracious badinage.

I think, Joe," said he, " that I can
manage the matter more economically than
your way.

What is that way, sir ? "

As I told you before, I look on you
as a very enterprising man. First, you
break into a man's house in daylight, and
then you come and beard the lion in his
den. You come to the man whose house
you honoured by a visit through a window,
and you say to him — I admit that nothing
could have been in better taste than your
manner of saying it "

Thank you, sir, but you took me so-kindly
and so gentleman-like."

Thank you, Joe ; but I mustn't compliment
you again, or we shall get no
farther than compliments to-night. As I
was saying, you ask him for no less thana
thousand pounds to help you out of

the country and into a respectable line of
life. Indeed, all my sympathy is with
you in your good intention, but then I
have to think of myself "

But you're a rich man, sir, and to
you a thousand pounds isn't much, and
it's everything to me. It will make me
safe, and help me out of a way of life I
never took to until driven to it," pleaded
Farleg. «

Well put, very well put. Now, this
is my position. This is my plan ; let
me hear what you think of it : On the
night or evening of the 17th you break
into my house ; on the night or evening
of the 27th you visit me for some purpose
or other "

To give you back your dead wife's
ring."

Quite so. You may be sure I am
overlooking no point in the case. Let me
proceed with my view. You and I don't

get on well together, and you attack me.
You are clearly the burglar, and I am
attacked by you, and I defend myself with
force. You kill me ; that is no good to
you. You won't make a penny by my
death. But suppose it should unhappily
occur that the revolver, on the trigger of
which, Joe, I now have my finger, and
the muzzle of which is about a foot from
your heart, suppose it should go off, what
then ? You can see the accident would
be all in my favour."

Farleg uttered a loud whistle.

For a second no word was spoken. No
movement was made in that room.

All at once, apparently from the feet
of the two men, a wild alarmed scream of
a woman shot up through the silence, and
shook the silence into echoes of chattering
fear.

As though a blast had struck the
banker s face, it shrivelled up like a

withered leaf. Something heavy fell from
his hand in the drawer, and he rose slowly,
painfully, to his feet.

Farleg rose also, keeping his face in
the same relation, and on the same level
as the banker's, until the pinched face of
the banker stole slowly above the burglar's.

The hands of Grey rested on the table.
His eyes were fixed on vacancy. He
seemed to be listening intently, spellbound
by some awful vision, some distracting
anticipation intimately concerned with
appalling voices.

Slowly from his lips trickled the
whispered words : " What was that ? "

My wife's voice," whispered Farleg.
*' You thought it was yours. When I told
you no one knew, I meant I had no pal.
But my wife knows all, and if anything
-came amiss to me she'd tell all."

I understand," the banker answered,
still in a whisper. The dread was slowly

descending from his face, and he made a
hideous attempt at a smile.

I, too," pursued Farleg, " was afraid
we might quarrel, and left her there. For
one whistle she was to scream out to show
she was on the watch. For two whistles
she was to run away and call help. Do
you see, sir ? "

Very clever. Very neat. You have
won the odd trick."

And honours are divided."

Yes. How is that money to reach
you k

I'd like it in gold, sir, if you please.
You can send it in a large parcel, a
hamper, sir, or a large box, so that no
one need be the wiser. I'm for your
own good as well as my own in this
matter."

You shall have the money the day
after tomorrow at four o'clock. It will
reach you from London. Now go."

Well, after what has been done, and
our coming to a bargain, shake hands,
Wat," said the man, in a tone of insolent
triumph.

Go, sir. Go at once!"

Honours are not divided ; I hold
three to your one. Give me your hand,,
old man. Joe Farleg will never split on
a pal."

With a shudder of loathing the banker
held out his hand.

As soon as he was alone, the moment
the door was shut, he took up the claret-jug,
poured the contents over his right
hand to cleanse it from the contamination
of that touch, and then walked hastily
up and down the room, waving his hand
through the air until it dried.

A thousand isn't much to secure him.
But will it secure him ? That is the
question. Yes, I think it will. I think
the coast is now clear. With prudence

and patience I can do all now' he
whispered to himself, with his left hand
on his forehead. "Wat Grey, you've
had a close shave. Nothing could have
been closer. Had you pulled that trigger
all would have been lost. Now you have
a clear stage, and must let things take
their course. The old man can't live forever
; and until he dies you must keep
quiet and repress all indication of the
direction in which your hopes lie. Maud
does not dream of this."

A knock at the door.

"Come in."

James, the servant, entered, holding
a slip of paper in his hand.

What is it, James ? " asked the
master.

That man that's gone out, sir, said
he forgot to give his address, and as you
might want it he asked me to take it upto
you."

Mr. Grey was standing by the low
cavalier as the servant handed him the
piece of paper.

Mr. Grey took the address in his right
hand; as he did so the purblind footman
sprang back a pace.

What's the matter \ " demanded Mr.
Grey with an amused smile.

Ex — excuse — me ■ — sir' the man
faltered, "but your hand "

"Well, what about it?"

It's all over blood ! "

What ! What do you say ? " shouted
the master, in a tone of dismay. "Do
you want a thousand too 1 "

Indeed, no, sir ; and I beg pardon ;
but do look at your hand."

Mr. Grey held up his hand, examined
it, and then burst out into a loud shout
of laughter. When he could speak he
cried :

You charming idiot ! You will kill

me with your droll ways. That dirty
wretch who went out touched my hand.
I had no water near me, so I poured
some claret over my hand and forgot to
wipe it."

He approached James and held out
his hand, saying, " Look." Then added,
in a tone of solemn amusement : " James,
there was once a man who died of laughing
at seeing an ass eat. I do think I shall
die of laughing at hearing a donkey talk.
Bring me the coffee. Go."

And as the servant was leaving the
room, Mr. Grey broke out into a laugh
of quiet self-congratulation on the fact of
his possessing such a wonderful source of
amusement in his servant, James.

THE MANOR HOUSE.

The house occupied by Mr. Grey was
very old. It had been the Manor House,
and was still called the Manor House, or
the Manor, although it had long ago
ceased to be the property of the original
owner's descendants. For years before
Mr. Grey bought it the house had been
uninhabited.

It bore a bad name — why, no one
could tell. The fortunes of the lords
of the manor had gradually smouldered
away, and the old house had been allowed
to fall into decay and dilapidation.

During the time it was shut up

people spoke of it as a kind of phantom
house ; some regarded, it as a myth, and
others treated it with a superstitious
respect as a thing which might exercise
an evil influence over those who fell under
the shadow of its displeasure.

Sunken deeply from the road, surrounded
by a wild tangle of rugged oaks,
its grounds girt with walls ten feet high,
there were few points open to the public
from which a glimpse of it could be
caught, and no spot from which a full
view could be obtained.

Boys had scaled the walls and penetrated
into the tangled mazes of the
neglected undergrowth. But the briars
and brambles and bushes were too rough
even for boys, and they came away
soon.

No boy of Daneford — and there were
high - hearted, brave, adventurous boys
there — could say he had penetrated

as far as the house. Although those who
had once been boys of Daneford had
faced the enemies of their country in
every clime, by day and by night, on
land and sea, and although the boys of
that city, at the time spoken of, were
made of as stout stuff and inspired by
as gallant hearts as the boys who had
fought and fallen in Spain, India, America,
Belgium, Egypt, where you will, not one
of all of them would dare, alone and by
night, to break through that jungle, and
penetrate to that house.

The soil of the Manor Park was
low and full of rich juices, and fertile
with long rest, so the vegetation beneath
the gnarled boughs of the interlacing oaks
could hold the moisture well when the
sun was hot, and from that ground to
the sun they never saw clearly rose huge
green and red and yellow slimy weeds
among the brambles and the shrubs.

vol. i. 4

From the nests of nianv generations

of birds which had built in those distorted
tret seeds of all things that grow on
this land had fallen, and taken root
and prospered in the rich ground of
the sultry glens and caverns formed by
the scraggy arms and foliage of the oaks :
wear after year this disorderly growth
had burst up out of the fat. greasy soil
in unwholesome profusion, unclean luxury,
and had rotted down a grain into the oyer-lush
earth. So that the spring-root and
ground-fruit, and all manner of green
things, jostled and crushed one another,
and the weaker were strangled and eaten
up by the stronger.

Thousands of birds yearly built in the
trees of the Manor Park : for here came
no guns to kill or scare, no boys to pilfer
the eggs or young ones; and this republic
of birds over-head was a source of great
profit to the soil below.

Often birds fell from the trees dead
of cold in the winter nights, and when
the sun shone out the industrious mole
came and buried them decently, and their
bones were of service to the soil.

The mole, too, was useful in another
way, for he turned up the clay now and
then, here and there, and opened avenues
into the earth for water burdened with
fructifying juices.

And here, too, was that ever-active
sexton of the vegetable world, the fungus.
In the vast winds of the winters, when
the oaks gored one another, and tore off
the fangs of their antlers, great boughs
fell with shrieks to the earth. Later the
sexton fungus crept over to the shattered
limbs and lodged on them, and ate them
up silently and slowly, and then the
fungus itself melted into the earth.

Here were worms of enormous growth,
and frogs and toads, and snails and

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

lizards, and all other kinds of slimy
insects and reptiles, and the boys said
snakes, but snakes were put forward in
excuse of fear on the part of the boys.
There were no hares, no rabbits, no deer,
no cows, no sheep, no goats, nor any of
the gentle creatures that put grass and
green things to uses profitable to man.

Here in those vaults of sickly twilight
vegetable nature held high saturnalia, undisturbed
save by the seasons and worms
and snails and caterpillars and slugs. This
was not a prosperous field, a prudent grove,
a stately wood, a discreet garden ; it was
a robber's cave of the green world, in
which the plunder of all the fields lay
heaped without design, for no good or
useful end.

At night the darkness was thick and
hot in these blind alleys and inexplicable
aisles. When the foot was put down something
slipped beneath it, a greasy branch,

a viscous fruit, a reptile, or the fat stalk
of some large-leafed ground-plant.

The trunks of the trees and the branches
of the shrubs were damp with gelatinous
dews. If there was a moon, something
might always be seen sliding silently
through the grass or leaves and pulpy roots.

Strange and depressing odours of decay
came stealthily upon the sense now and
then, and filled the mind with hints of
unutterable fears. If in the branches above
a sleeping bird chirped or fluttered, it
seemed as though the last bird left was
stealing away from the fearful place. The
fat reptiles that glided and slipped in
the ghostly moonlight were fleeing, and
leaving you alone to behold some spectacle,
encounter some fate, too repulsive for the
contemplation of reason.

Within this belt of rank vegetation
and oaks the Manor House stood. The
house had a plain stone front with

small narrow windows, three on each side
of the main door. At the rear was a
large paved court-yard, with a pump
and horse-trough in the middle.

The chief building consisted of a ground-floor,
on which were the reception-rooms ;
a first floor of bedrooms ; and a second
floor, the windows of which were colmar,
intended for the servants of the establishment.


The walls of the house were of great
thickness and strength. On the ground
and first floors most of the doorways into
the passages had double doors. Owing to
the great thickness of the walls, and the
double doors, and the massive floorings
and partition walls, sounds, even the
loudest, travelled with great difficulty
through that house.

In front of the house stretched a broad
gravelled drive, which narrowed into a
gravelled road as it set off to the main

road, a considerable distance farther on.
This carriage - road wound in and out
through the oaks of the Park. Between
the gravelled open in front of the house
and the trees stretched a narrow band
of shaven grass. This narrow band of
grass followed the carriage-road up to the
lodge-gate.

Around the paved yard in the rear
stood the coach-house, stables, kitchen,
laundry, scullery, larder, and other offices,
and still farther to the rear of the house,
behind the yard, were the flower and
kitchen gardens. To the rear of all,,
surrounding all, and binding all in like
suffocating bondage, was the Park of
gnarled oaks and rank lush undergrowth
and slimy soil.

In looking at the house you were
not conscious of anything uncanny or
repulsive. At the left-hand end — that is,
the end of the house nearest to Daneford

there rose a tower, mounting only one
storey above the dormer floor.

Upon the top of this tower was a
huge iron tank, corroded into a skeleton
of its former self. Looking at that weather-battered
and rusted tank, with the undergrowth
in the Park behind you, the former
resembled the decay of the indomitable
natives of America, who perished slowly
in opposing themselves to fate ; the overripe
prosperity of the latter looked like
the destruction of the Romans, who ate
and drank and slept their simplicity and
their manhood away.

One peculiarity of this house was that
no green plant or creeper could get a
living out of its dry walls. Neither on the
house nor on the tower had ever been
seen one leaf native to the place. Here
was another tiling in strong contrast to
the teeming vegetation environing this
house.

It was not while looking at the Manor
3^011 felt its unpleasant influence. In
sunshine nothing disturbed your peace
while you contemplated its dry, cold front.
But when you had gone away ; when you
were sitting in your own bright room ;
when you were walking along a lonely
road ; when you awoke in the middle
of the night, and heard the torrents
of the storm roar as they whirled round
your window ; then, if the thought of that
house came up before your mind, you
shrank back from its image as from an
apparition of evil mission. In your mental
vision the house itself seemed scared and
afeared.

The intense green life that dwelt
beneath those oaks stood out in startling
contrast with the absolute nudity of those
apparelled stones. The house seemed to
shrink instinctively from any contact with
verdure, as though it felt assured of evil

from moss or leaf or blade. It appeared
to dread that the oaks would creep upon
it and overwhelm it in their portentous
shadows, beat it down with their
giant arms.

That tower stood out in the imagination
like an arm uplifted in appeal ; that
shattered tank became a tattered flag of
distress. The windows looked like scared
eyes, the broad doorway a mouth gaping
with terror. The whole building quivered
with human horror, was silent with frozen
awe.

In the year 1856 Henry Walter Grey's
father died, and the son became sole proprietor
of the Daneford Bank. Up to
that time the son had lived, with his
wife, to whom he had then been married
six years, in the Bank-house as manager
under his father. There were only a few
years' lease of his father's suburban residence
to run, and a likelihood arose that

the landlord would not renew, so young
Grey had to look out for a home, as he
intended appointing a manager and living
away from the office.

At that time the Manor House was
in the market, and Mr. Grey bought it
for, as he said, " a song, and a very poor
song, too," considering the extent of the
Park, the value of the timber, and the
spacious old house. As a matter of fact,
no one valued the dwelling at a penny
beyond what the sale of its stones would
bring ; for the impression of the seller
was that, owing to its uncanny aspect and
bad name, no one would think of buying
it to live in.

All Daneford was taken by surprise
when it heard that young Grey, Wat
Grey, Wat had bought the fearful Manor
House in which no family had lived for
generations, and from which even the
furniture and servants had been long

since withdrawn. Did he mean to take
it down, build a new house, and effect
a wholesome clearance of those odious
groves ?

No, he had answered, with a light
laugh, he harboured no intention of knocking
down the old house to please the
neighbours ; of course he was going to
repair the house, and when it was fully
restored he would ask his friends to come
and try if beef and mutton tasted worse,
or wine was less cheering, under that
roof because nervous people had been
pleased to frighten themselves into fits
over the Park and the Manor House.

In a year the house had been put
into thorough order, and even the tower
had not been wholly neglected, for
one room of it, that on a level with
Mr. Grey's own bedroom, had been
completely renovated into a kind of
extra dressing-room to Mr. Grey's bedroom,

from which a short passage led
to it.

Nothing was done to the ground-floor
of the tower; nothing was done to
the floor on a level with the dormer ;
nothing was done with the floor above
the dormer.

Nothing was done to the unsightly
tank on the top of the tower.

With respect to the rooms of the
tower, Mr. Grey said he had no need of
more than the one.

With respect to the tank, he said he
would in no way try to diminish the
unprepossessing aspect of the exterior of
the house ; he would rely upon the
interior, the good cheer and the welcome
beneath the roof, to-countervail the ill-omened
outer walls.

There was another reason, too, Mr.
Grey said, why he had made up his mind
to alter nothing in the surrounding grounds

or outward aspect of the house — he wanted
to see whether that house was going to
beat him, or he was going to beat
that house.

So when all was in order, he set about
house-warming on a prodigious scale — a
scale that was a revelation to the people
of Daneford.

He filled all the bedrooms with guests,
and had a couple of dozen men to dine
with him every day for a fortnight.

He told his servants, as long as they
did their work punctually and satisfactorily,
they might have friends to see them, and
might make their friends welcome to the
best things in the servants' hall every day
for a fortnight.

There were bonfires in the courtyard,
and fiddlers and dancing. A barrel of
beer was placed on the horse-trough, and
mugs and cans appeared in glittering rows
on a table beside the cask, and painted

on the butt-end of the cask the words,
"Help yourself."

When he lived in town his establishment
had consisted of three servants. For
the fete a dozen additional servants were
engaged and a French cook. There were
a lodge and gate to the Manor Park, but
there was no lodge-man or woman ; and
during the festivities the gate always
stood open until midnight, and all passers-by
were free to come in and join the
dancers and partake of the ale.

One day he had all the clerks of his
own bank to dine with him ; and while
they were over their wine and cigars he
informed them their salaries were from
that hour advanced twenty per cent.

He was then a simple member of the
Chamber of Commerce ; he had not yet
been elected chairman. He entertained
the whole Chamber another evening, and
then told the members he had that day

written to their secretary, declaring his
resolution not to charge interest on the
money advanced by his bank — three
thousand pounds — for the completion of
the new building in course of construction
by the Chamber.

A third evening he asked all the
members of the Harbour Board, and told
them that he had made up his mind to
abandon the old claim for interest on
their overwrought set up by his father.

Then he gave a Commercial Club
evening, to which were bidden all his
friends and acquaintances, who were also
members of the club. After roast beef
came two large silver dishes, on one of
which was, plainly enough, plum-pudding ;
on the other, something that was plainly
not plum-pudding. The host nodded to
the servants, and both dishes burst into
flame ; the dish that contained the plains
standing opposite the treasurer

of the club, at the foot of the table ;
the thing that was not plum - pudding
standing opposite the banker. Whatever
had been before him was, when the
brandy ceased to burn, all consumed,
except a little black matter that floated
about on the surface of the fluid in the
dish.

Everyone must have some of my
new sauce. I invented it myself, and I
will take it as a favour if all will taste
it with the pudding."

All partook of it and praised it highly,
and many said they had never tasted its
like before, and several began elaborate
analyses of it, and minute comparisons
between it and a hundred of well-known
sauces.

After a while he said : " The roast
beef and plum-pudding of Old England
for ever ! " Then pointing to the dish
containing the floating black matter before

vol. i. 5

him, "And the ashes of my mortgage on
the club property once ! "

The Boat Club were his guests another
evening, and a large gold loving-cup was
brought in and carried about with a rich
compound of dark wines and stimulating
spices, and out of this all were to drink.
When all had tasted and toasted in the
common cup the object of their common
solicitude, the last man after drinking
called out that there was something
which rattled and jingled and slid about
in the bottom of the cup. The master of
the house seemed more inquisitive than
any of the others, bade the finder spill
out the contents of the cup on a salver,
and, behold, one hundred and five new
sovereigns fresh from the Mint ! Upon
this discovery the host rose and said that
love was the rarest of alchemy, and that
the touch of a score of loyal lips, all
having; the one interest at heart, had

changed the liquor into gold for the good
of the club, and that the gold and the
cup must go together to the club.

When he had the organisers and
directors of the Poor's Christmas Coal
Fund to dinner, each member found,
folded up in his napkin, twenty orders,
each order for five shillings' worth of
coal.

Such generous and kindly deeds, and
such cordial hospitality, could not but
endear him to the people of Daneford ;
and by reason of his knowing so many
men intimately, and each one of these
men being more or less proud of the
acquaintance, they all called him "Watts
show how very intimate they were
with him, and to show that in the best
commercial set in Daneford there was no
one else known by the name of Watched
called him Wat in preference to
Henry or Harry, because there is not

perhaps among all the Christian names
one which admits of such an mtmiatety
familiar contraction as Walter.

But all the banqueting and largess did
not disenchant the ominous mansion.

Those who had been at the prodigal
house-warming always remembered the exterior
aspect of the house when the revels
were at their height as even worse than
the ordinary appearance ; for the small
red windows in the thick dark walls
looked at night like the eyes of a desperate
man who had drank deeply to keep up
his courage in some supreme ordeal.
And by day ever afterwards, to those who
had been in the house at the festival, it
seemed as though the house looked more
aghast than ever, like the face of one
who, having slept off the artificial courage,
had awaked to reduced resources and
increased dangers.

Air UHSKLFEKH MOTHER.

An :Lr i ::: = her. \~ M: - ~

the Manor House re men's parties. Mrs
t rarely or n was to be found

in the drawing-room after dinner ; and,
indeed, the drawing-room wa lorn

lighted np.

Mrs a pretty, love - :: 1. .

nervous woman, a few a the

junior of her husband He had met her
first in London, in a house where she
staying on a visit with friends. She
was alone in the world, had a small
fortune, which, while it made her no

object of pursuit in the circle she
frequented, kept her independent.

There was a little mystery and a
little doubt about her, and while neither
the mystery nor the doubt was sufficient
to disquiet anyone, it served to keep
interest in her alive, and the more prudent
and calculating of suitors from love-making.
Individually she was popular ;
but while those who knew her spoke well
of her in her absence, the good things
said of her always began in superlatives,
and, as the conversation went on, diminished
to positives, and the talk usually ended
with a vague " but " and an unfinished
sentence.

Perhaps she was a little odd, they
said. Perhaps she had French blood in
her veins. Perhaps the strange blood was
Spanish. She had a look not wholly
English — a look denoting no close kinship
with any other people. Her name was

Muir, which seemed to indicate that she
came of a stock north of the Tweed. Yet
she had never been in Scotland, nor her
father before her, nor anyone of his
side, as far as he could trace back. Her
mother had been the daughter of a Truro
solicitor, her father a member of the
Equity bar of London. Those who had
known her father and mother declared
that she resembled neither in her face
nor her manner. She was dark, low-sized,
and odd ; they had both been
tall, fair, and models of conventional
insipidity.

When Henry Walter Grey married
Miss Muir she was twenty-four years of
age, he twenty-nine. The women judged
her to be thirty-four, the men allowed
that she might be twenty-seven ; but all
agreed that young Grey, with his prospects,
might have done much better as far as
money went.

But among the young and the chivalric
of Daneford, young Grey helped forward
his nascent popularity by marrying a poor
wife and risking his father's displeasure
for his sweetheart's sake. The young and
chivalric of Daneford were never tired of
pointing to the pleasantness and most prosperous
man in the city as one who had
made his love paramount above all other
considerations in the selection of a wife.

From the time he won his wife until
he lost her his manner towards her gained
him daily increase of respect among the
people of the city. Every indulgence and
luxury which his position could afford were
lavished upon her. Wives who had cause
of displeasure or dissatisfaction with their
husbands always cited Mr. Grey as a
shining contrast to their own too economical
or exacting lords. It was not alone that
she was never denied anything for which
she could reasonably care, but, notwithstanding

the clubs and the institutions
and the boards of which Mr. Grey was a
member, no more domestic man lived in
Daneford. He always dined at home,
except on occasions of great public interest ;
and when he had no guests he sat reading
or conversing with her, or they both went
for a stroll in the fine twilight, or visited
the theatre, or any other form of public
amusement afforded by the town.

- As the years of their married life glided
by, and no child came to make an endearing
interruption to the smooth course of
wedded sweethearts, the attachment between
the husband and wife seemed to borrow
a greater depth from the soft melancholy
arising out of their childless condition.
It was, the town said, a thousand pities
the rich, amiable, amusing, good-looking
Wat Grey had no one to leave his fine
business and his vast fortune to.

If a friend alluded to the fact of his

childlessness lie always put the subject
aside with as little humour and as much
gentleness as the character of the speaker
allowed of. To his wife, who often made
tearful allusions to the circumstance, he
replied with cheerful hopefulness, and bade
her set her grief for him away, as he was
quite content and happy with the blessings
Heaven had already sent him, chief
among which was a wife he loved.

Although Mrs. Grey did not go into
society, and had no ladies to dinner, she
had a few visiting friends upon whom
she called in turn, and who learned from
her the uniform kindliness of her husband,
and the great gentleness with which he
accepted the absence of an heir or heiress.

In fact, the more people heard of
Mr. Grey, the more he grew in popular
esteem, and behind all this amiability on
his part there was a factor which hugely
multiplied its value. At first, when he

brought his wife home to Daneford, and
the people of his set began to know hera
little, they all declared that she was
pretty, very pretty, and a trifle odd.

Time went on, and although she lost
none of her prettiness with her years —
hers being the beauty that depends on
bone and outline, and not on surface and
colour — her peculiarities gained upon her ;
and whether, the Daneforcl folk said, it
was the foreign blood that darkened her
eyes and her hair and her ways, or a
slight strain of madness, they could not
decide, but she was, beyond all doubt,
not in manner like the average Englishwoman
of her class.

At first her peculiarities defied definition.
People said she was very nice, buta
little queer, cracked, crazy. She was
very impulsive, and sometimes incoherent.
No action of hers seemed the result of
forethought or preparation. She ordered

the servants to bring this, that, or the
other thing, and when they came with it
she told them they might take it away
again, as she had changed her mind. She
ordered the brougham for four, went
out walking at a quarter to four, and
stayed out till six, without countermanding
the brou or ham.

About the time that Mr. Grey bought
the Manor House, Mrs. Grey had a difference
with her cook, and her cook left her
in a violent temper. The cook had been
with her ever since Mrs. Grey had first
come to Daneford, and was the confidential
servant of her mistress. Soon after the
cook had left it reached the ears of a few
acquaintances of Mr. Grey that a dreadful
spectre had appeared in his household.
The fact that Mrs. Grey had now
been married some years and was still
childless had ju-eyed very deeply on her
excitable temperament, and, dreadful to

say, she not unfrequently took more wine
than was good for her.

Those who heard this now saw a reason,
unguessed by others, why the banker
bought that odious house swathed round
with that fearful wood. There his wife
would be secluded, free from prying eyes
and guarded against any close daily contact
with neighbours. How had it been kept
secret so long ? The cook, now discharged,
had obtained for the unhappy woman
what she wanted, and the poor lady was
wonderfully discreet and cautious, and
until that servant went no one but
the cook and the afflicted husband
ever dreamed of such a thing. It was
dreadful.

But the most intimate friend of Grey
never knew from him, by even the faintest
hint, there was a single cloud over his
domestic happiness.

He always spoke of his wife in terms

of the most tender consideration and kindliness.
He was by no means weak or
notions ; hut there was a loyal trust, an
ever-active sympathy in him towards her,
that won greatly on the young and old
men and women of Daneford.

The evil circumstance under which
Mrs. Grey laboured was never an open
scandal in the town. In the first place,
owing to her own great prudence and
circumspection, no one had any suspicion
of the melancholy fact from herself. If
she was the victim of a debasing weakness,
she never betrayed herself publicly, and
those who heard of it through indirect
ways had kept the secret closely, out of
respect to the man whose fame and name
and popularity stood so high among his
fellow-citizens. Indeed, some who heard
the rumour disbelieved it wholly, and
declared their conviction that it was the
malicious invention of a discharged servant,

based on the eccentric habits and unfamiliar
ways of the poor lady.

But the fact remained that, even to
the spacious Manor House, no lady guests
were invited to dinner ; no lady guests
stayed for twenty-four hours ; and, beyond
a few afternoon callers, no ladies visited
the house at all. But perhaps in Daneford
there were not a dozen families in possession
of the fact that would account for
the strict retirement in which the mistress
of the Manor lived, and the young and
the chivalric continued to look on Grey
and his wife as not only the most
prosperous, but also the most happy,
couple in the whole county.

Very soon after Henry Grey's marriage
with Miss Muir, he found out that she
did not possess the solid good sense and
grave discernment essential in the confidant
of a banker.

She not only lacked the golden faculty

of silence, but dealt with facts communicated
to her in a most imaginative and
injudicious manner. He told her that a
substantial and solvent merchant of the
town had overdrawn his account five
hundred pounds. Shortly after, the merchant's
wife called on Mrs. Grey, and the
latter, in a moment of communicativeness,
said to the former that business was in a
bad way, and that she understood the
former's husband owed the Bank, over and
above ordinary business, no less a sum
than five thousand pounds. The merchant's
wife related this to her husband, and
he came in great indignation to Grey.
Mr. Grey said his wife's talk had been
only woman's gossip, and that he had
most certainly never told his wife or anyone
else the merchant owed the Bank five
thousand pounds over-draught.

The merchant said he was quite sure
Mr. Grey had not, but urged that something

of the over-draught must have been
communicated to Mrs. Grey, and that a
woman's gossip was quite capable of ruining
a solvent man.

On another occasion the banker told
her the Bank had not made as much-money
that year as the year before, and
she informed some chance callers that the-bank
was losing heavily. This rumour-might
have shaken the credit of air
institution less solidly established than the-sandford
Bank ; but in the city and
country surrounding the city the Bank
was looked upon as much more safe than
the Bank of England, insomuch as the
Threadneedle Street concern had a paper
currency, and the Daneford did not mortgage
any of its capital by such an issue,
and stood in no temptation to diminish
its stock of gold or overstep safety.

These two experiences of Grey's, coupled
with a few others of less importance but

vol. I. 6

similar nature, convinced him that the
more general and abstract his statements
of business matters to his wife the better,
and from the moment he arrived at this
conclusion he carried it into effect. She,
having no talent for the particular, did
not seem to miss his confidence, and
remained perfectly content with commonplace
generalities as to business matters.
Indeed, having very little of the highly
feminine virtue of inquisitiveness, she was
not much interested in business statements
of any kind.

Most men will talk more freely to a
woman whom they trust than to any man,
no matter how near to them by ties of
nature or affection. Henry Grey was no
exception to the rule, and when he found
he durst no longer confide important
secrets to his wife, he unburdened himself
to another woman, a widow, now past
seventy, but still straight and intelligent,

and sympathetic and hale, a woman who
had won and retained a most powerful
hold upon his esteem, affection, and confidence
— his mother.

Whilst all the world of Daneford was
calculating the enormous fortune the Dane-ford
Bank must be making for its owner,
and was bemoaning the fact that Watery
had no child to leave his fine business
and his vast savings to, there were two
people the nature of whose anxiety about
Mr. Grey's affairs did not take the same
course.

These two people were the only beings
possessing knowledge of the condition
of Mr. Grey's private fortune and the
bank.

For years he had kept the true state
of affairs from his mother, but at length,
as blow succeeded blow, he could no longer
bear the burden of his secret, and he unfolded
it to her. He did not trouble her

with detail, but informed her briefly that
he had backed the South in the American
wars — that not only had he lost all his
own private fortune, but of the depositors'
money as well.

At first she was overwhelmed with
surprise and horror to think the splendid
business and reputation made for the
Bank by her dead husband and his father
before him should be ruined by her son,
and that not only had the Bank been
ruined and her son's fortune and position
destroyed, but the moneys of the clients
had also been included in the horrible
disaster.

But, despite her seventy years, she was
a brave old lady, full of honour and spirits
and courage. Once the first shock was
over, she set all her faculties at work to
try and sustain the drooping energies of
her only son.

She know he was not free from troubles

at home ; she knew he gave none of his
business confidences to his wife. Though
she deplored these facts, she felt there
was no help for them ; and if at first
reluctant to assist him in councils which
ought to be held between him and his
wife, in the end she saw it would be the
wisest course for her to listen, to encourage
him to speak, and to aid him with any
advice she might think it wise to give.

Apparently, however, the affairs of the
Bank were beyond the aid of advice. At
every interview between mother and son
he assured her he saw no opening in
the clouds ; that, in fact, they got blacker
and blacker as time wore on.

Towards the beginning of 1866 things
had, the son told the mother, come to
the worst.

"All is lost," he said; " all is lost.
I have been staving off and staving off
until everything has got into a hopeless

tangle, out of which I can find but one
thing — ruin !"

"Then, Henry, I suppose you must
shut the door ; and as you see nothing
else for it, the sooner you stop up the
better. "

Mother, the day I shut the Bank
door I'll open another door."

"What do you mean?"

I'll open the door into the otherworld
with a charge of gunpowder."

Don't say such a foolish, dreadful
thing ! You are not, I hope, such a
coward as to fly from the consequences
of your own act. If you have lost the
money in fair trading you need not be
ashamed to meet them all ; others beside
you lost by that unfortunate South. Your
father would have stood his ground and
faced the city," said the old woman, with
spirit and pride.

No doubt, mother, no doubt my

father would have had the manliness to
stand and face the break ; but he was a
man of great endurance and nerve ; you
know I am not. I would do anything
rather than meet such a crash and live
after it. You know I have been much
more out in the world than my father.
I am mixed up with such a number of
things, am closely connected with such a
number of institutions and men, that
nothing, no consideration, could induce me
to outlive bankruptcy. The people would
not believe facts ; they would not credit
any statement, however plain, that I was
insolvent. They would say that I had
appropriated the money of the depositors,
made a fraudulent pretence of bankruptcy,
and concealed the money for my own use.
I know the world better than you, mother ;
I know the world, and what it would say.
I may be popular now; but if I fell, the
street-boys might kick me through the

gutter and no one would take my part,
or try to get me fair play."

He dropped his head into his hands
and shuddered.

The old woman looked at him with a
sad sympathy, which was not wholly destitute
of reproach.

"You know, Henry, thousands of men
have had to face such things, and have
come out of their difficulties without a
stain or a hard word "

(i In my case that is impossible. I tell
you, mother, they would have no more
mercy on me than on a snake. The Bank
is a private one, the property of one person,
and on that one person all the wrath would
fall. It is not like a joint stock, or a
limited liability, where many are concerned
as principals or shareholders or directors.
It would be a case between an individual
and his creditors. It would look as if I
had borrowed money privately of all the

people I knew, and spent it or gambled in
dangerous foreign speculations, until I had
dissipated their last pennies and left the
people beggars. No, mother ; the day I
shut the Bank door I open the gate of
Eternity with a bullet."

He was walking up and down his
mother's drawing-room, with his hands
clasped behind-his coat, his eyes bent on
the ground, and a look of concentrated
thought upon his usually placid and beaming
features.

I will not hear you say that again,
Henry," cried the mother, stamping her
foot impatiently on the floor. "Listen
to me. You know my two thousand a
year is clear of the Bank "

Thank Heaven and my father for
that ! " cried Grey earnestly.

Can't you shut up the Bank, and
you and Bee " — Beatrice, his wife — " come
and stay with me for a while ? We could

leave England and live on a thousand a
year in the south of France, or anywhere
you like, and save up a thousand a year
to start you again "

I would die ten thousand deaths, dear
mother, rather than touch your money,"
he cried fervently, catching her hand and
holding it in both his, and opening his
hands now and then to kiss the shrivelled
hand which had once, when soft and full,
joined his — then softer and fuller — in
prayer, and now, when he was strong and
she was weak, tried to shield and succour
him as in the days dien he was a little
child.

Don't be sentimental at such a crisis,"
cried his mother petulantly. "You shall
do as I say ; or if you like, when the Bank
affair is settled, we can sell the annuity.
I know I'm old, and it's not worth many
years' purchase ; but we should get a few
thousand for it, and that would give you

a fresh start in some other business. Now
I tell you this is what shall happen. Do
you hear me ? I will not wait for your
consent ; this very day I will see about
selling the annuity — what clo you call it ?
tantalising it ? Go, Henry, and no more
nonsense about gunpowder and bullets.
Such things are only fit for the stage
or the Continent, and are quite beneath
the notice of a sensible English man of
business."

He rose to his feet and cried : " You
shall not, you must not, mother. I have
been making out things worse than they
really are. I am depressed and ill. Believe
me, there is no need for doing what you
say. There is one venture of mine, in noway
connected with the late war, the
greatest of all my ventures ; and although
I do not look on it as a very safe or sound
venture, it may come all right yet. I
shall know in a fortnight. You must

promise me to do nothing until then.
Promise me, my dear mother ! "

He spoke eagerly, passionately ; and
as he uttered the final words he caught
both her hands in his, and looked beseechingly
into her eyes.

"And in a fortnight you will tell
me?" she asked, looking searchingly into
his face.

"In a fortnight I will tell you."

"And between this and then you will
not, in my presence or in your own secret
mind, speak or think about such nonsense
as daggers or poison-bowls, or gunpowder
or bullets?" she asked scornfully.

"I promise I will not."

Very well," she said ; "I will do
nothing till I hear from you at the end
of a fortnight. Let us shake hands, Henry,
and part friends."

"Friends!" he exclaimed, as tears of
love and sorrow came into his eyes.

"Mother, you are the only one on earth
I love now."

Hush, sir ! How dare you say suck
a thing I"

"I swear it!" he cried vehemently.
I would do anything, dare anything, for
you, mother "

"And for your wife," she added, as if
reminding him of an omission made in
carelessness.

He paid no attention to her suggestion.

"You are the only one in the world
who knows me really."

"And longest," she added, with a
bright smile. "There — go now, Henry;.
this scene is growing theatrical or Continental,
and unbecoming the drawing-room
of an English mother. There — go."

And she hustled him to the door,
opened the door, thrust him out, and closed
the door upon him.

As soon as she was sure he had left

the vicinity of the door she threw herself
clown on a couch and burst into tears,
exclaiming softly to herself between the
sobs :

My Wat ! my poor Wat ! my darling
child, is it come to this with you?"

Then after a while she dried her eyes
and sat up. "Perhaps all may go well
with him after all. Perhaps this venture
of his may come right. It was lucky I
got him out of the room so soon. Another
moment and I should have broken down,
and been more dramatic and Continental
than he, and that would never do. No
son respects or relies on a mother who
weeps on his bosom, and causes him to
remember she is not his earliest and
strongest friend."

In the strong-room of the Daneford
Bank all the money and securities held by
the bank were kept. The last duty of
Mr. Aldridge, manager of the Daneford

Bank, each day, was to return the cash,
bills, books, &c, to this strong-room. To
this strong-room there were three keys in
the possession of the staff of the bank,
one held by the manager, one by the
accountant, and one by the teller.

The door could not be opened save by
the aid of the three keys. Thus no officer
of the Bank could commit a larceny in
the strong-room without the countenance
of two others.

Mr. Grey had duplicates of the keys
held by the accountant and teller. But
the key held by the manager was
unique, and even Mr. Grey himself could
not enter the strong-room without the
manager's key.

In this strong-room were kept not only
the valuables of the bank, but cases and
chests containing all kinds of highly portable
and extremely precious substances
and papers belonging to customers of the

Bank. Here were iron plate-chests, iron
deed-boxes, jewel-caskets in great numbers,
left for safe keeping, not being part of
the Bank's property, and against which
there was no charge by the Bank but an
almost nominal one for storage.

The evening after Mr. Grey had that
interview with his mother, he called at
the Bank, found the manager in, and
having told Mr. Aldridge that a secret
report had reached him to the disadvantage
of a customer whose name he was
not allowed to disclose, he wished to
borrow the manager's key for half an
hour, as he wanted to turn over the
suspected man's account.

He got the key and a candle, and
went down to the strong-room. In half
an hour he returned, and handing back
the key to Mr. Aldridge, said : "I am
glad to say that the account I spoke of
is quite satisfactory, and that it will not

be necessary to make any alteration in
our dealings with the customer I alluded
to."

The next day Mr. Grey went to
London, and returned the evening after.
A few days later, among the letters was
an advice from Mr. Grey's London correspondents
to the effect that Messrs.
Barrington, Ware, & Duncan had lodged
twenty thousand pounds with them to
Mr. Grey's credit.

That day Mr. Grey called upon his
mother, and told her some of the
expected good luck had come — not all,
but still twenty thousand out of the
fire.

I told you, Henry, you had only to
wait and face it, and you would win. If
you did any of those romantic and foolish
things with daggers and poison-bowls,
they would say you were little better
than a thief."

vol. I. 7

Now they could not even say as
much," he said softly to himself.

"What are you dreaming about now!"
his mother cried, in exasperation.

He looked up with one of his best
and brightest smiles, and said : " Dreams,
madam ! nay, it is. I know not dreams ; "
and kissing his mother to punctuate his
parody, he smiled again, and added : "I
was only joking, just to enjoy the sight
of your anger now that things are looking
better. Good-bye."

And so he left her.

AN UNSELFISH FATHER.

The city of Daneford, on the river Wees-
lade, is about eighteen miles from the
small watering-town, Seacliff, which stands
in a little bay at the mouth of the river.
Between Daneford and Seacliff the width
of the river varies, but is never less thana
mile.

At a distance of less than four miles
from the city the river widens considerably
into a loop, and in the loop is the island
of Warfinger. The island, which rarely is
called by its particular name, but is spoken
of as "The Island," measures a mile long
by half a mile broad. It rises gradually

from the shores to the centre, and on the
highest point of it stands Island Castle,
the seat of the Midharsts for generations.
In the neighbourhood the title of Island
Castle is cut down also, and no one at
all familiar with the locality ever calls it
anything but " The Castle."

In the early part of the year 1866
the tenant for life of Island Castle was
old Sir Alexander Midharst, a widower,
who lived in the Castle in great retirement
and the meanest economy. His wife
had then been dead twenty years. She
had died in giving birth to her only
child, Maud, now rapidly approaching her
majority ; a girl of such gentle beauty
and simple childlike manners that all who
met her spoke of her beauty and her
grace with tender respect and ready
enthusiasm.

Maud Midharst did not need any adventitious
aid to make her beauty apparent

and her presence acceptable, but her delicate
complexion, her dark sweet eyes, her
pleasant smile, all came out in strong contrast
with her surroundings at the Castle.

In the building everything, including
the structure itself, seemed hastening to
decay. The walls, the floor, the furniture,
the servants, the master, all were old.
She formed the one exception to the
general appearance of approaching dissolution.
The outer walls of the pile
were seamed and lined, the water had
eaten into the stone, the frost had
cracked the mortar, and unsightly yellow
stains lay upon the masonry, like long
skeleton fingers pointing to the earth into
which the walls were hastening.

When castles were places of defence as
well as of residence, Island Castle was well
known. It had stood two sieges, and had
been a famous place of meeting among
the Jacobites. Its insular position, the

wide prospect it commanded, the fact
that it could not be invested on all sides
at once except by a whole array, the
facilities it afforded to approach and flight
of friends, and the difficulty, amounting
almost to an impossibility, of reaching it
by surprise except under the favour of
night or a fog, all added together made
it a place of great importance once upon
a time.

The Castle had not always been in
the Midharst family. It had come to
them early in the eighteenth century,
upon the failure in heirs male of the
great Fleurey family, by which failure the
historic earldom of Stancroft was lost to
the blood for ever. The Midharsts had
some of the female Fleurey blood in their
veins, but it was of distant origin ; and
title to the fine castle and property was
declared to Sir John Midharst, the first
of his name who laid claim to it, only

after long and expensive litigation and
much scandal.

Up to that time the Midharsts had
been poor baronets. The property accompanying
the Island in the year 1866
brought in a rental of more than twenty-two
thousand pounds a year.

It was a very singular fact that from
the first baronet who sat as master in
Warfinger Island Castle down to old Sir
Alexander, no son succeeded a father. It
was always a grandson or a nephew, ora
grand-nephew or some remote cousin.
Now matters were worse than ever. Sir
Alexander was upwards of seventy years
of age, with an only child, a daughter,
and the closest male was a direct descendant
of the youngest son of the
baronet, the lucky Sir John who came in
for the property that had supported the
extinct earldom of Stancroft.

No doubt this remote cousin was a

Midliarst in name and blood, but somehow
it was hard for Sir Alexander to
feel very cordial or friendly towards one
so remote from him, one who was going
to take the property and the title away
from his immediate family.

At the time Lady Midliarst died Sir
Alexander was but a little over fifty years
of age, and many thought he would marry
again. But even then he was ailing, and
doctors told him that between asthma and
valvular derangement of the heart his
chance of living even a few years was
slight. Of course, they said, he might
live fifty years, but he was heavily
handicapped.

As long as his wife, who had been
much younger than he, lived he continued
to hope for an heir ; but upon the death
of Lady Midliarst, having ascertained the
precise nature and import of the diseases
from which he suffered, he made up his

mind to give up all thought of an heir, and
devote himself wholly to making a suitable
provision for his daughter Maud, who was
healthy and well-grown, and promised to
be strong and long-lived.

And now began with Sir Alexander
Midharst the practices by which he disgraced
his order, and made himself a
byword for all who knew his habits and
his name.

He shut up his London house and
advertised it to be let. A rich distiller
took it furnished at two hundred pounds
a month during the season, and a manufacturing
jeweller for eighty pounds a
month during the unfashionable periods
of the year.

He sold his horses and carriages, all
save one old state coach, which he could
not sell for two reasons ; first, because
its preservation and " maintenance " were
provided for by his predecessors ; and

secondly, because no one would pay
haulage for it from the Island to the
city.

He dismissed all his servants but the
housekeeper, one maid, and one man, allowing,
however, a nurse and "governess" for
the baby, who yet lacked of three months.
He resigned the membership of his two
London clubs, of the three county clubs
he belonged to, and intimated to all
institutions or bodies or guilds to which
he was patron, chairman, subscriber, or
member, that his connection in any way
with them must cease.

He discharged his steward, and resolved
upon collecting his own rents and superintending
his own property.

Up to this anyone who chose might
go over his fine old Castle. Anyone
still might go over the Castle, but an
entrance fee of one shilling was now
demanded from each sightseer.

As time advanced, and lie became
more imbued with avarice, more expert in
meanness, lie cut and shaved and clipped
here and there and everywhere, until he
had reduced his expenditure to about a
thousand a year.

But he did not rest content with
cutting down his own expenses ; he was
fully as careful to increase his income by
every means in his power.

When leases expired they were renewed
only on payment of heavy fines. His
care was not so much to inflate the rent-roll
as to get in all the ready-money he
could. He had, he calculated, only a few
years, if so long, to live, and the rent-roll
would then be the concern of that
William Midharst whom he had never
seen and whom he wished never to see.

He cut down and sold all the timber
as far as his right to do so extended ;
and all the trimming and underwood,.

which had previously been allowed to goas
perquisites to the men or as gleaning
among the poor, he took possession of
and sold.

He let the right of shooting over
his land and the right of fishing in his
streams and rivers. He sold off all he
might of the more modern furniture at
the Castle.

He sold all his personal plate and
jewels, and all the pictures he had
acquired in his lifetime. When he was
young he had made a collection of coins ;
this, too, he converted into cash.

At one time he contemplated letting
one wing of the Castle to a rich tallow-chandler
of the city, and was absolutely
in treaty with him, when with a shudder
of shame he drew back and broke off
the negotiations.

When he commenced his scheme of
economy and exactions, he had said to

himself that if he pursued it for one
year, and sold off all the things he then
contemplated, he should be able to leave
his baby-girl close on forty thousand
pounds. At the end of twelve months
he found he had put more money together
than he had anticipated. There was no
new cause of anxiety with regard to his
health, and he made up his mind to
continue upon the track he had adopted.
He might live a year, ay, two years yet ;
if he lasted two years more the leases of
Garfield estate would fall in, and he should
reap a harvest out of renewals. Give
him two years more, that is, three from
the beginning, and he should be able
to leave his only child close upon one
hundred thousand pounds.

At the end of the three years he
found he had not come within several
thousand pounds of his limit ; so he resolved
to complete the hundred thousand

before" lie changed his manner of living
or of dealing with the property.

When the end of the fourth year was
reached he had saved more than the
hundred thousand pounds. By this time
he had become accustomed to the loss of
all his old associations, had grown to love
the new, and, above all, had become the
slave of avarice, that most inflexible and
enduring of all the passions. Therefore,
he threw all idea of change to the winds,
and resolved as long as he lived, whether
for a week or twenty years, to save all
the money he could, in order that the
descendants of his side of the family
might be able to hold up their heads
hereafter.

At the death of his wife Sir Alexander
Midharst closed his London banking account
and transferred all his business to the
Daneford Bank, where he had had an
account when he came into the property,

and where his predecessor in the title had
also kept his account.

Now in money matters Sir Alexander
may have been a good sergeant, or even
on occasions a trustworthy captain ; but
he was no general, and he knew it. He
accordingly resolved to consult with Mr.
Grey, father of Wat. He explained the
whole scheme to the banker, and the
purpose for which the money was being
saved, and said that in the first place he
wanted to invest the money safely, and in
the second of course he wanted some
interest for it.

The banker suggested that for the
present the money should be invested
in the Three per Cent. Consols, which
could be realised readily should any more
desirable form of investment offer itself,
and where it would be as safe as inland.


After some consideration Sir Alexander

agreed to follow the banker's advice, on
the condition that Mr. Grey would buy
the stock, keep the account of it, with
the heirloom jewels and plate of Island
Castle, but that in this case Mr. Grey was
to retain the key of the chest containing
the valuables and transact all the business
connected with the Consols, such as
receiving dividends, crediting the amount,
and buying in more Consols with the
interest of the Consols themselves, and
any money Sir Alexander should lodge
to the Midharst (Consols) account.

I shall save the money," said the
baronet, " and you will take care of
it.

And so it was arranged. Sir Alexander
gave the banker power of-attorney with
regard to these Consols and all the money
lodged to their account for the future ; all
communications from the Bank of England,
of solicitors, or anyone else, were to be

addressed to Sir Alexander Midharst, Dane-ford
Bank, Daneford. These letters were
to be opened and attended to by Mr. Grey,
who was to make a reasonable charge for
the trouble.

Things went on thus until the elder
Mr. Grey's death, when the son succeeded
to the banking business and a considerable
private fortune in 1856.

Young Mr. Grey, as soon as he came
into the business, at once waited upon Sir
Alexander Midharst, and said he would
advise that some new plan should be
adopted with regard to the baronet's
business and accounts.

The baronet, who knew young Grey
very well, and liked him exceedingly, told
him that his father had managed the business
excellently, and that the son ought
to be able to do as well.

Young Grey said the responsibility was
very great, the sum being now more than

vol. i. 8

two hundred thousand pounds over which
Grey had complete power.

The baronet took him by the hand and
said :

You are a younger man than your
father, and ought not to be more timid.
Our family have known your bank before
now ; for my part, I am not able to take
charge of these things. I prefer your
guardianship to that of my lawyer's
or of anybody else. If your father
charged too little for the trouble, you
may charge more. You know the money
is for my little daughter : the estates goto
a stranger after my death ; and this
money is the fortune of my child, that
no man shall say she, a Midharst —
the last of the direct line, I may say —
was left penniless and portionless, though
she may be left homeless, on the world."

"As you put it now I cannot refuse,"
answered young Grey.

Look around you." They were in the
gateway leading to the court-yard, with
their faces turned towards the slope of the
hill. " Look around you. I have shorn
the land close for my child. I work night
and day for her, as though her daily bread
depended on my arms and my brain. I
may die any time. I have no friend, no
relative. I am alone with my child.
Everyone seems against me. That greedy,
rapacious young scoundrel who is to follow
me is looking with hungry eyes upon
Warmer Island, and nightly praying for
my death. All my old friends have given
me up. I am not of them now, because
I have striven to make provision for my
child. They call me a sordid miser, a
stain upon the order I share with them.
Let them rave. I will do what I think
right by my child. Let them do as they
choose. I do not ask their help. I only
ask them to let me alone. But you I ask

to help me ; and you will, for you are not
ennobled by the accident of your birth, but
by the generosity of your nature."

If any power of wavering had remained
in young Grey, this appeal would have
overcome it. So the matter was finally
settled : the son was to act for the baronet
precisely as the father had acted before.

During the year 1856 Mr. Grey the
younger was a frequent visitor to Island
Castle. He liked boating ; and often in
the fine evenings pulled down the river
Weeslade to the Island, had a consultation
with Sir Alexander, and then pulled back
to Daneford in the sweet fresh twilight.

Often when it was growing dusk, and
he was about to start from the Island for
the city, he pushed off his boat into midstream,
and rested on his oars, looking
up at the mouldering Castle standing out
clear against the darkening sky.

There was something desolate and

forlorn about that vast pile, inhabited
by that ageing man and that young girl.

In front, facing the wider water-passage,
it stood high above him, its blind gateway
looking down upon him, a lonely round
tower at the right of the archway catching
the strange gleams of light reflected from
the Weeslade as the river glided silently
towards the sea.

Winter and summer, when there was
sunshine at sunset, the top of that tower
caught the reflection of the last red streak
that flickered on the polished surface of
the river. This fact affected long ago the
superstitious feelings of the people. There
was a tradition in the neighbourhood that
in times gone by the wicked mother of a
Lord Stancroft used abominable witchcraft
against her daughter-in-law, her son's bride,
newly brought home from the kingdom of
Spain, a country far away, and near the
sun, and full of gallant men and fine

ladies, whose eyes it were a marvellous
fine feast to see, but who were — the ladies
treacherous and light of love.

The abominable and damnable exercises
practised by the wicked dowager caused
the dark-eyed Lady Stancroft, who had
come among strangers out of the far-away
kingdom of Spain, to wither up and grow
old and loathsome in a year. So that
the young lord turned away from her, and
cared nothing for her any more. And the
poor young lady, gap-toothed and wrinkled
and foul-looking as she had been made
by devilish witchcraft, was still young in
her mind and her affections, and doated
on the lord, who would not as much as
come nigh the Castle while she was there,
but took to wine and evil ways.

So at last the poor young wife, who
looked eighty, was lost, and could be found
nowhere. It was long after, and in the
time of the next lord, that, in the topmost

chamber of the round gate-tower, a chamber
never used save in war-time, they discovered
the skeleton of the young wife, and words
written in a strange tongue, the language
of Spain, saying how she had stolen up
there to die, as she could not win back
the love of her husband, the young lord
Ever after that the topmost chamber of
the tower was red at sunset. Some
thought this red gleam came from the fire
where the wicked dowager Lady Stancroft
suffered for her great sin ; others thought
this was the reflection from the wreath
of glory worn by the poor young wife.
But all agreed it had to do with the deed
of the wicked Lady Stancroft ; and so
they called the tower the Witch's Tower,
a name it bore until Walter Grey gave it
another.

The year 1856 was one full of remarkable
events in the life of Mr. Grey. In
it his father died ; he came into a considerable

fortune ; he purchased a house ;
and grew to be a frequent visitor at Island
Castle, It often struck him as a peculiar
coincidence that in the same year he should
have become owner of the most remarkable
house near Daneford, and caretaker to the
fortune of the owner of the most remarkable
house in the whole district.

About that time he read an account
of a certain tree said to be in sympathy
with a certain tower. The idea was fresh
to him, and seemed to open up a new field
of speculation, and he dwelt upon it a
good deal.

One evening, as he was rowing from
the Castle to his own home, a thought
flashed into his mind. There was a striking
coincidence in the fact of his disconnected
so closely with two such houses.
Each was unpopular, each was weird,
strange ; there were queer stories about
each, each had a tower. The tower of

one had an unpleasant history connected
with the skeleton of that poor Spanish
lady ; the tower on his house had that
rusty framework of a tank that looked
like a skeleton. " Might not," he thought,
with a smile at the absurdity, " there
be some sympathy between these two
houses ? "

He ceased to row, and looked at the
vast pile that brooded over the dark
waters of the Weeslade. He rested upon
his oars.

It looks, if like anything human,
like a witch charming the river. My
house, too, looks like a witch sitting at
bay within her magic circle of grove. It
wouldn't be bad to name them both
The Weird Sisters. They are uglier than
the crones in 'Macbeth'"

He pulled a few strokes and mused
again, resting on his oars.

They don't use that tower. I don't

use my tower. They found the skeleton
of the Spanish Lady Stancroft in the top
of that tower. There's the skeleton of
that old tank on the top of mine.
Towers and skeletons suggest Bombay
and the Parties. By Jove, the Towers
of Silence would not be a bad name for
those two."

Next day he told several people the
names he had given the two houses and
the two towers. All who heard of the
new nomenclature smiled, and admired
the cleverness ; and from that time forth
in Daneford the two houses were known
as the Weird Sisters, and the two towers
the Towers of Silence.

TO THE ISLAND OR TO

Early in the year 1866 the Midharst
(Consols) account-book with the Daneford
Bank showed that, after deducting all
charges and paying all expenses, the principal
and interest reached the enormous
sum of five hundred and fifty thousand
pounds, enough to buy such a property
as the old baronet enjoyed.

By this time Sir Alexander had passed
out of middle life into age. He was now
thin and bent to one side, and very
weak, but still firm of purpose. He had
defeated the doctors by living so long ;

he had defeated "that ungrateful whelp,"
as he called his heir-presumptive. Of this
distant cousin he had no knowledge whatever
; he declined to listen to anything
about him. Why he called him ungrateful
no one ever knew ; he called him a whelp
because he was young. It was believed
that Sir Alexander had never in all his
life set eyes upon him, or even got an
account of the young man from one who
knew him.

At the time of his wife's death, the
baronet made outline enquiries through
his solicitor as to the age and descent
of the boy. In the year of Lady
Midharst's death, the boy, whose father
had been a poor naval officer, was aged
eight, having been born in 1838. The
boy's father had died at sea. There
could not be the shadow of a doubt
that this William Midharst was heir -
presumptive, and, if he lived, would

inherit the title and the property, should
Sir Alexander die without leaving a
son.

Little of the baronet's time was spent
with his daughter ; often a whole week
went by, and he did not pass more than
an hour of the whole time with her.
She had a suite of rooms for herself,
where she lived with Mrs. Grant, an
officer's widow, who knew much of the
world, and was now glad to accept
the position of lady's companion to the
baronet's only child.

Owing to the eccentric life led by
Sir Alexander, the facts that he saw no
company and had no intercourse with an r
of the county families, Maud never went
into society, and was wholly dependent
on good sympathetic little Mrs. Grant
for any knowledge she might gain of the
great outside world. Mrs. Grant, who was
of a gay and pleasure-loving disposition.

had no patience with the whims and
meanness of the old man.

You know, my dear," she said to
Maud, as they sat over their tea in
Maud's little drawing-room, "it's all very
well for Sir Alexander to go on saving
up money for you, so that you may bea
great heiress one of these days ; but
that isn't all. He treats you as if you
were a girl of twelve yet. Why, my
dear, I had been out three years before
I was your age, and had refused three or
four offers. I had, indeed. I know you
don't want offers, my dear ; but I did ;
for I was only a poor rector's daughter,
and hadn't even beauty to help me."

Indeed I am sure you must have
been wonderfully pretty. You don't know
now nice you look now," replied the girl
softly.

"Ah, well, my dear, after a few
seasons you get to know all about your

good looks ; and then, my dear, after a
few seasons more yon get to know what
is of a great deal more consequence, all
your defects, or at least a good many. I
don't suppose any woman ever found out
all the weak points in her appearance,
and that's a mercy. But as I was
saying — what was I saying ? "

I think," said Maud, with an expression
of great innocence, " that you were
blaming papa for never having given mean
opportunity of finding out the weak
joints in my personal appearance."

"Yes, that's it. That is, not quite it.
Maud, I won't have you twist things I
say in that way. You know I am always
for your good ; indeed I am."

I am quite sure of it, dear Mrs.
Grant," returned the girl gratefully, and
with a trace of moisture in her large soft
eyes, as though she relented having taken
advantage of the other's impetuosity.

The woman took her hand, and stroked
it briskly, and said :

"There, there, Maud, don't be silly.
Look at this very case in point. Why,
you turn sentimental over a few words
from an uninteresting middle-aged woman !
Now is that a proper thing in an
heiress of twenty ? Why, my dear,
you'd have no account to give of offers
refused if once you went out. You'd
marry the first booby who asked you,
rather than disoblige him or cause him
pain."

I shall never marry anyone I do
not love," said Maud, with an air of
quiet decision.

Maud, be silent ; you are only a
school-girl, with a lot of sound rules in
your head, and not the least idea of
how they are applied, or where. I tell
you / know something of the world and
girls and love and marriage. I tell you,

you'd marry the first stupid lout who
said to you : ' Maud, I love you ! '

Was the first who proposed to you
a stupid lout?" asked the girl simply.

No, he wasn't ; at least I did think
he was then, but I afterwards knew
that he was the best of them all ;
and I was often sorry I did not take
him."

"And did he marry?"

Yes ; he married a fool."

"Who had just come out — her first
season?" asked Maud, with her hands
folded serenely on her lap.

"Yes. But how did you guess?"

"Well, you see, you told me I should
marry the first stupid lout who asked
me, and I thought it likely a girl only
just out did marry the stupid lout who
proposed first to you."

"But, dear,. I told you he wasn't a
stupid lout ; then I thought he was stupid,

vol. I. 9

and was often sorry afterwards — of course
I mean before I married — that I did not
accept him."

"This gives me more hope for my
own case. You see, the girl who had
only just come out took the man you
thought was a stupid lout, and was right
in taking him."

o

Maud looked up and smiled.

For a moment Mrs. Grant tapped her
foot impatiently on the carpet ; looked
hither and thither, rose a little hastily,
and cried: "Well, Maud, if you don't think
I have a very serious interest in what I

say, I will say " She paused, and

looked at the sweet, half-frightened face
of the girl. All at once her manner
underwent a change. She drew near the
girl, and putting her arm round her waist,
I will say," she continued, " that whoever
gets you cannot help loving you. Men
are often bad, Maud darling ; but I don't

think there is one such a villain and a
fool as to be unkind to you."

As April of 1866 grew into May, the
asthmatic affection from which the old
baronet suffered abated ; but the valvular
defect of heart increased. He had fainted
three or four times in the month of
April, and in May his debility became so
great that he was unable to leave his
bed. Other symptoms now showed themselves,
and complicated the case, and so
embarrassed the action of the heart that
the doctors declared he must expect a
speedy termination. Towards the end
of May the doctors declared he would
never rise from his bed.

The old man, whose spirit was in arms
against these doctors, would not believe
them. Twenty years ago they had told
him the same thing.

They said : No, the circumstances were
different. They had then said he might

go at any moment ; things were worse
than that now. There was no longer
any chance of recovery, and the dread
was things would grow worse.

The doctors found it necessary to be
almost brutally candid with him, for they
had learned he had not yet made his-will.


Insecure as was the tenure upon which
he had for the past twenty years held
his life, he had gone on from day to day
deferring the arrangement of his affairs
on the grounds that he was too busy,
and that if he made his will now he
should have to add codicils according

o

as his savings increased. His lawyer
assured him no such thing was necessary,
because, after all bequests had been
mentioned, he could leave his daughter
residuary legatee absolutely or with any
provisions and restrictions he liked to
impose.

As the lawyer had failed in the old
time the doctors failed now. But they
were resolved to leave no stone unturned
in their attempt to get him to settle his
affairs. The dying man's daughter was
too young, and too timid, and too closely
interested in the execution of the document
to think of asking her aid ; so
they resolved to summon Mrs. Grant, and
request her to press the matter home to
the mind of the invalid.

In the great banqueting-room the three
physicians in attendance sat when it was
resolved to invoke Mrs. Grant.

The vast apartment had been allowed
to fall almost into ruins. It was the
finest room in the house, and few houses
in either county that claimed the banks
of the Weeslade at this point could boast
so noble a chamber.

But twenty years of neglect had defiled
and defaced the room. The curtains were

faded and worn, the hair grinned through
the torn covers of the fine old oak chairs.
Damp had attacked the moulding of the
picture frames, and here and there the
moulding had fallen off, leaving the bones,
of the discoloured frames exposed to view.
The ceiling, formed of oak cross-beams,,
with flowers and fruit pieces in the panels,,
had felt the corroding touch of wilful
Time. Here and there the canvas bulged
off the panel, and hung in loose flabby
blisters from the roof. The fine oak floor
had grown dull and woolly for want of
use and care. Sir Alexander kept no
servants to look after the apartments he
did not make use of, and refused to
allow even beeswax for the floors.

The dog-irons, which had stood watch
over the home-fire of generations of his
name and blood, were rusted. The
tapestries hanging across the doors, here
and there torn from their hooks, hung in

neglected disorder from the rods. The
hospitable greeting "Welcome," in blue
enamel in the wreath of carved vine-leaves
round the top of the huge sideboard, had
lost some of its letters. The glasses of
the lamps held by the bronze Nubian
slaves at the doors were reduced to half
their number. The leather thongs lacing
the suits of armour that held the groups
of candles at either end of the sideboard
had rotted and parted, and the helmets
and back and breast plates gaped at the
sutures.

The chamber smelt like a vault just
opened, and, although the weather was
bright and fine, all the furniture, the
walls, the floor, felt damp and slimy.

As soon as the doctors had finished
luncheon, Mrs. Grant was sent for. She
arrived in a state of great agitation ; she
feared that Sir Alexander was in the last
extremity.

Dr. Hardy, the senior physician, a
pale, soft-voiced, self-contained man of
few words, was the spokesman. He said :

"You will be glad to hear, and you
will be kind enough to inform Miss Mid-hast,
that there is no cause for any
alarm on account of the present condition
of Sir Alexander."

Mrs. Grant looked infinitely relieved.
Strange and unsympathetic a father as
the invalid had been, she did not like
the thought of having to tell anything
dreadful about him to Maud.

I am glad to hear it. Shall I goat
once and tell Miss Midharst the good
news ? "

Dr. Hardy held up his hand with a
gesture which said quite plainly : "If you
will be so kind as to confine your attention
to me, you may rest assured of knowing
explicitly what I wish to have done in
this matter." Having allowed the gesture

a little while to sink into the mind of
Mrs. Grant, he went on with his lips :

But" he said, with strong emphasis
on the conjunction, to show Mrs. Grant
that she had interrupted him, and that
he regarded the interruption as frivolous,
the case has now arrived at that state
of progress when almost at any time the
patient's head may be attacked. Should
the head be attacked, Sir Alexander will
lose the possession of those mental gifts
and powers which he now possesses undiminished
and unimpaired."

"Poor child !" cried the widow, thinking
of the guileless daughter of the stricken
man.

And" continued Dr. Hardy, with the
same resolute emphasis on the conjunction,
" we consider that he should beat
once induced to make his will, and
we have resolved to request you will
use your influence with him. We have

tried and failed. May we count on
you?"

Mrs. Grant looked ujj with a half-amused,
half-astonished air. As soon as
she had somewhat recovered from her
surprise, she said very earnestly :

"There is nothing in this world I would
not try to do for Miss Midharst ; but
there is no more chance of Sir Alexander
listening to me on any business matter
than of his asking advice of the wind.
He believes women can and ought to
know nothing about business. It would
only vex him if I spoke of anything of
the kind to him."

The poor little woman looked quite
distressed and helpless.

The three men glanced from one to
the other in despair. In a few seconds.
Dr. Hardy spoke again to the little
widow.

Is there no friend of the patient's

whom you could suggest as likely to
have influence on him ? Do you think
his lawyer would have weight ? We
know how he has secluded himself from
the world and his own class, and that
we are not to look among those who
would naturally be his friends for the
assistance we now want. Do you think
his lawyer would be likely to succeed
with him in this ? "

I am greatly afraid not. I have
heard that — although he has a high
opinion of Mr. Shaw, his lawyer — he
would never in any way accept advice
in his affairs beyond legal matters. I
understand Sir Alexander has no personal
liking for Mr. Shaw. And he
won't speak to any clergyman."

Again the three men looked at one
another in doubt and difficulty. Again
Dr. Hardy spoke :

This is a matter of the utmost

importance to those who come after Sir
Alexander, and we are most anxious it
should be settled, and at once. If we
thought it was a disinclination to make
a will, or a determination not to make
one, that kept him back, we should feel
no responsibility in the matter. But he
refuses to settle his worldly affairs solely
upon the ground that we are deceived as
to his condition of health. Now we are
confident w T e are rio-ht. He will never
rise from his bed again. Already dropsy
has made its appearance ; at any moment
that may, directly or indirectly, affect
the head ; in his case it is almost sure
to do so at some time."

Dr. Hardy paused a moment ; then
proceeded with more decision than heretofore
:

Perhaps you, Mrs. Grant, would be
kind enough to ask Miss Midharst if
she could give you the name of anyone

on whose advice Sir Alexander would
be likely to rely in an important business
affair ? You need not distress Miss
Midharst with anything more explicit."

Mrs. Grant rose with prompt willingness,
and hurried away in the sustaining-hope
that Maud might be able to solve
the difficulty.

When Mrs. Grant had gone, the three
men drew near one of the tall narrow
windows that looked west along the
Island and commanded the beautiful
valley of the broad river, and the broad,
blue, bright Weeslade itself.

An everlasting Sabbath filled that
luxuriant valley with a peace which
seemed too fine for earth. Because of
the height on which the Castle stood,
and its distance from the nearest shore
beyond the western end of the Island,
all detail was subdued and lost ; nothing
was left to trouble the eye or excite

enquiry. The eye could see nothing but
broad green pasturage and vast expanses
of emerald grain shoots reaching down
to the river's brink, and sloping softly
inward towards the quiet hills that stood
up apart, clad in purple and blue wood,
and crowned with violet uplands lying
secure against the azure sky.

The tide was full ; the winds were
still ; from the trees around through the
open window came the fragrant spices of
the may. Above, the lark took up
where all human voices end the praises
of the spring. The glory of inextinguishable
youth was in his song, the wild
rapture of a regenerated soul. Below,
the sad-throated thrush piped of the
mellow melancholy of a ripe old world
that had borne a thousand generations
of men, who had moved all their days
through the same narrow and unsatisfying
avenues of desire and passion and fine

failure to the richly padded grave. The
thrush sang to the earth of those who
had died ; the lark sang to the skies of
those who shall live for ever.

Around the three men as they stood
by the open window was the mouldering
chamber of an ancient house. On one
side lay the decayed old man of a noble
race. On the other side the maiden
daughter of that man, who had smothered
up his affectionate visiting under piles
of gold, scraped together for her, for the
pride of his lineage.

Beyond there in the city was ruin.
A great bank which had a branch in
Daneford had stopped payment to-day.
The three men by the window were
talking of that while they awaited the
return of the woman.

Dreadful ! I am told that the poor
Maintains are completely ruined by
it.

Completely. Fancy old John Mus-grave
put four thousand pounds into it
on deposit this day week. It will kill
him. He had sold out Turks, and was
going to buy United States."

Poor old fellow ! I do pity him."

There was a rumour of one of the
local banks being in a bad way. Did
either of you hear it ? "

"Not the Daneford?"

No ; Grey is safe. Bless me, his
father left him a couple of hundred
thousand clear of the business, and he's
been making money ever since."

"Is it the Weeslade Valley?"

I don't like to say. It is so dangerous
to speak. But there is a rumour
of a local bank, and it's not Grey's."

No. I should think Grey could
stand anything. They say it was always
Grey's system to keep the money near
home. It's a commercial and customers'

bank, and not a gad-about among foreign
speculations and bubble manufacturers."

At that moment Mrs. Grant re-entered
the room.

The three men turned round and went
to her.

I have seen Miss Midharst, and she
says she thinks the person most likely to
have influence with Sir Alexander is Mr.
Grey the banker."

A most excellent man," said Dr.
Hardy, turning to the other two. " What
do you think V

Capital!"

No one could be better."

Dr. Hardy spoke to Mrs. Grant for
the last time on that occasion. " Send a
note by express to Mr. Grey, requesting
him to come immediately. Explain to
him what our views are, and ask him
to do his best to induce Sir Alexander
to make his will."

vol. i. 10

In less than an hour and a half
Mr. Grey received Mrs. Grant's letter. It
merely said that his presence was urgently
desired at the Castle at once, and that
by hurrying he would greatly oblige
Sarah Grant.

He was in his private room at the
Bank when he read the letter. He
opened his private black bag. Bank
proprietors do not always carry firearms,
in fact rarely, almost never. Clerks in
charge of money often do. Grey always
carried a revolver — now.

He can't have heard of his Consols?
In that case he would have written
himself or come. "What can this be ? — so
sudden, so urgent, and from Mrs. Grant !
Perhaps the failure of the St. George's
has frightened him. If he asks me to
give up the money now ! Ah, I can't
face that ! No, no ! This first," and he
took a revolver out of his bag.

Again lie thought awhile, and ended
with a question : " Shall I go to the
Island or to ? " He poised the revolver.

As he did so there was a knock at
the door.

TRUSTEE TO CANCELLED PAGES.

Come in," said the banker mechanically,
and his mother entered.

With a start Mr. Grey's mother cried
out " Henry ! " then crossed the room
hastily, and, putting her hand on his arm,
looked up into his face with alarm.

With an amused smile he glanced
down at her, and said simply, " Mother ? ' :
in a tone of badinage, as if paying her
off in her own coin by replying to her
with a single word.

"What was that you held in your
hand and dropped into the bag as I
came in ? " she asked with reproachful

earnestness, looking up fixedly into his
eyes, as though she would pierce to his
innermost thoughts.

He put his hand on her shoulder
playfully, and smoothed one of the black
silk strings of her black bonnet with-his
thumb and finger, returning her
steady gaze with a steady eye and a
free smile. " That, mother," he answered,
is the countersign for thieves."

The countersign for thieves ! What
do you mean, Henry ; you ought not to
bandy words with your mother."

Indeed, I am not playing with
words. I am only describing the weapon
and its use as briefly as possible. I was
looking at my revolver, for I was just
about to set out on a journey. You
see, if a thief comes up to a man
armed with a revolver, and demands
the man's purse, the man produces that
revolver, and the thief says, "Pass on,

friend." If a thief who has stolen money
meets the man he stole it from, or a
policeman, and can pull out a revolver,
then he can say to the man or the
policeman, " Let me pass, or I will
shoot you down ; " or suppose the thief
finds the odds are against him, he can
put the barrel to his own temple, and
pass the foe in spite of numbers. Now,
mother, don't you think my explanation
is very clever and very exhaustive ? "

He placed his two hands on the-widow's
shoulders, and pushed her back
arm's length, dropped his head roguishly
over his shoulder, and laughed a soft
laugh, which seemed to invite her to
enjoy his cleverness and be amused at
the humour of the explanation.

Mrs. Grey did not smile. For a
moment her face grew puckered and
perplexed. In her eyes shone the light
of a mental conflict between anger and

tears. The conflict ended in a few-moments.
She threw herself into a chair
and covered her face with her hands.
She neither stormed nor wept.

He hastened to her with compunctious
solicitude. He knelt on one knee
by her side, and put his powerful arm
round her emaciated shoulders, and with
the hand of his other arm gently drew
down her hands from her face.

Mother ! mother ! ' ; he pleaded, ina
tone of passionate tenderness. " I did
not mean to annoy or trouble you. I
was only a little wilfully following out
a fancy, a conceit. It was a foolish
vanity that made me seem to play
with your questions. You know, my own
mother, I would not give you any pain
I could help, for all the world. Forgive
me, and let us drop the nonsense.
Forgive me, and let us speak of something
else."

All the earnestness of this man's
nature went into these words, and there
was in them and the manner attending
them a fervid pathos which stirred the
heart of the woman so deeply it almost
killed her to keep from crying out, and
thro win or her arms round her son, and
weeping on his breast. But by a superhuman
effort, an effort no created being
could make but a mother for the salvation
of a child, she held her passionate
love within her own heart ; for, according
to her theory, so must all women who
wish to rule their children ; and she
wanted to rule, not for the love of
power, but for the love of love and the
preservation of her son.

She gave one quick glance at him
out of those sharp eyes, and then throwing
down the eyes on the ground, said
in a constrained voice :

The St. George's Banking Company

has failed. There is a run on the Daneford.
You are unable to meet that run, and you
were thinking of getting away from the

run and the closing of the doors with

that." She shuddered, raised her hand, and
pointed to the black bag into which he
had dropped the revolver.

No ! no ! no ! mother ! " he cried
imploringly. " I pledge you my word —
if you like I will prove to you — that weare
able to meet any run that may come
upon us in consequence of this failure.
If you like I will call in Aldridge to
corroborate mv words."

"Corroborate your word, Henry!" she
cried scornfully. "Do you think I could
doubt my son's word, and believe the
word of any other man alive ! Never
while I Jive, I hope, shall you fall so
pitifully low as to need another man's
word to help your word to my belief."
She laid hold of the imputed question of

her son's word as a point on which to rally
her disordered feelings and overcome the
tendency she felt to break down.

"Well, mother, rest assured this run
threatens us with no danger whatever.
On the contrary, as we are able to meet
it without the least inconvenience, the
position of the Bank ought to be very
materially improved when all becomes
quiet again." He rose and left her ashe
spoke, and locked the two doors of
the room, observing : " We don't want
anyone to come in and interrupt us
now."

By the time he returned to his seat
she had recovered her composure. " Then
what do you mean by ' setting out on a
journey?' Those words helped me into
the fear."

As a reply to that question, he
pushed the note he had just received
from Mrs. Grant across the table to her.

and said : " Read that, and you will
understand."

She adjusted her tortoiseshell spectacles
and read the note deliberately. When
she had finished she looked up quickly.

He was standing at the window looking
out. His back was towards her, and
she could not see his face. It was
wrinkled and drawn up like a yellow
leaf.

"Do you know what you are wanted
for at the Castle V she asked briskly.

"No."

"What has happened to your voice 1 ?"
she asked, in a tone of anxiety and
surprise. He had spoken as though
his windpipe was almost closed in a
gripe.

Nothing ; or at least something has
gone against my — breath. What am I
wanted for at the Castle ? " Still he
spoke as if half suffocated. Still he kept

his face to the window. Still his face
was wrinkled and yellow and withered
up.

I met Dr. Hardy as I came in. He
had just driven straight back from the
Castle. There has been a consultation
of doctors to-day, and they have little or
no hope of Sir Alexander getting better.
He has not yet made his will, and they
all agreed you were the only person
likely to have any influence with him.
They could get him to do nothing about
it."

Grey's face cleared as if by magic.
He turned round suddenly, threw up
both his hands, and burst into a loud
and continuous shout of laughter.

His mother started to her feet, and
looked at him aghast. "Henry!" she
cried, in great alarm ; " Henry, what is
the matter ? "

Nothing, mother, nothing," he said

between his laughter : "I thought it was
something serious."

She regarded him in a stupor of
amazement for a few seconds. " You
thought it was something serious," she
whispered, as if she questioned her
hearing.

Yes, something very serious."

But it is very serious. He is in
danger of death, and has not yet made
his will. Surely that, Henry, is no
subject for laughter."

He was composed now. His face was
radiant, and he smiled apologetically ashe
said : " You must really forgive me,
dear mother. The fact is, for the past
quarter of an hour I have been on such
a stretch in the interview between us that
to hear of anything else but my own
affairs relieved me, and I could not help
laughing. I did not, indeed, laugh at the
thought of poor Sir Alexander being ill ;

I pity him with all my heart. But what
you said touched some spring of my mind,
and I could no more have forborne to
laugh than to breathe for an hour. Well,
I think I had better start for the Island
at once. You now feel all right about
the Bank ? You feel quite comfortable
about it, mother, don't you ? "

Yes, but do not be so odd, Henry ;
you frighten me to death with your strange
ways of late."

I have a good deal of anxiety, and
perhaps am too abrupt. More of my
abruptness : I can't wait another moment.
Good-bye, mother."

And in a few seconds he had sone.

When she found herself alone, she sat
down to recover and to reflect. " Everyday,"
she thought, "he becomes less like
his old self, and more of a riddle."

Her eyes caught something on the table.

When I came in he told me he was

examining that dreadful thing because he
was going on a journey, and now he's gone
off and left it behind him in the bag on
that table. Can it be he is losing his
reason ? "

When Mr. Grey found himself outside
the Bank-door he hailed the nearest fly,
jumped in, and cried cheerily to the
driver :

Island Ferry, and I lay you a half-crown
to a whip-lash you don't do it under
half an hour. Take the time and drive
on."

With a chuckle of grave satisfaction, the
banker threw himself back in the fly, and
as they drove rapidly through the town
he waved his hand or doffed his hat at
every twenty yards. There was cordiality
in every look that greeted him, and many
who saw him go by turned and gazed
with admiration and envy after the fine
rich jovial banker.

No wonder lie looked pleased. An
hour ago, less than an hour ago, he had,
upon reading that note, almost come to
the conclusion Sir Alexander Midharst
had discovered he, Grey, had " borrowed "
every penny of the immense sum confided
to his charge by the baronet. Such a
discovery would have been to him simply
and literally fatal.

Early in this year, when he disclosed
the secret of the Bank to his mother,
he and it were bankrupt, and all the
depositors' money was gone. Pressure
after pressure had come upon him after
that, and all such demands had been met
by " borrowing " the baronet's savings
without the baronet's consent.

Three months ago he was a bankrupt,
now he was a bankrupt and a thief. He
had no more right to sell those Consols
than to put his hand into any customers
pocket and take his purse. He had

glided into the thing gradually, beginning
by borrowing twenty thousand pounds,
which he caused to be lodged to his own
credit at his London agents in the name
of Barrington, Ware, and Duncan, an
imaginary firm of Boston merchants, who
remitted the money through their London
agent on account of supposititious dealings
in hides on the western coast of the
United States.

The twenty thousand had only stopped
the gap for a few days. Then heavier
and heavier bills came to maturity, and
before there was any general uneasiness
in the commercial world, one hundred
thousand pounds of the baronet's savings
had been " borrowed."

Then came ugly rumours of certain
banking establishments ; and although the
Daneford Bank was always spoken of
with the highest esteem in the district,
the city, and in such quarters of London

vol. I. 11

as it was known, the accommodation
market had got very much straitened,
and the Daneford Bank's London agents
not only hinted they did not care to
make any additional advances, but sounded
Grey as to the possibility of their being
able to get a little advance from him.
Could he let them have fifty thousand
for six weeks on Argentine they did not
want to sell ?

Here was a chance of showing the
stability of his own concern and helping
a friendly firm which might be of incalculable
use to him another time. Now
that he had dipped into the Midharst
fund, why not go deeper ? He could
make something out of this transaction ;
and it was for the good of Sir Alexander
as well as himself that he should try to
pull back all the money he could, and
keep the name of the Bank at the very
highest level. He lent the money.

Then came other pressures because of
those old speculations, a quarter of million
at least ; and last, more uneasy rumours
in the financial world, and the possibility
of a run on the Bank. At all risks the
Bank must stand ; for on its stability
depended not only the life of Henry
Walter Grey, but all chance of winning
back any portion of the baronet's money.

When the moment of this decision
arrived Grey put down his last stake ;
sold the last hundred thousand of Sir
Alexander's half a million Consols, and
bought the revolver. As he put the
matter to himself in his figurative way,
the situation now was a race between gold
and lead. Would the gold, in the form
of profits and deposits, come back to
him in such quantities as to prevent the
necessity for the outgoing of the lead ?

It was on Wednesday, the 30th of
May, 1866, he got that note from Mrs.

Grant. He had just been calculating his
chances of falling in for some of the business
of the St. George's Bank. He had even
put down a few figures to please and
natter his sight. It might be that if he
could hold on and get — say, half the
business of the Daneford branch of the
St. George's Bank, the chance of the gold
overtaking the lead would be enormously
increased. All this was of course contingent
upon Sir Alexander remaining in
ignorance of the " borrowing." If that
came to his ears in any way, nothing
could prevent the lead overtaking the
gold.

That note almost precipitated the crisis.
In the usual way when he was wanted
at the Castle Sir Alexander wrote a line
himself, or called and asked the banker
down for the evening. This note did
not come from Sir Alexander, but from
Miss Midharst's companion. At the

moment when his mother entered a straw
might have turned his resolution in favour
of giving the lead a walk over. But with
the news brought by his mother all was
changed, and the gold had taken a good
lead.

As he sat back in the fly and reviewed
his position he could hardly restrain his
exultation within the bounds of mere
facial joy. He would have liked to get
out and run through the streets, and
shout.

A few minutes ago he held all black
cards to a red trump. Now the whole
pack seemed to have been put before him
face up, with liberty to select his own
hand and turn a trump of his own
choosing.

No run could injure the Daneford
Bank; other banks might fail, but his
was secure for the time ; and by the aid
of its good substantial name the Daneford '

would get strong while others were crumbling,
and the future success of the Bank
would be assured beyond the reach of his
highest hope of years ago.

Only two possible chances were against
him, and if neither of these chances turned
up within twelve months he might laugh
at fate.

The former was that in the will there
should be introduced anything adverse to
him. The latter was that the old man
should die in less than twelve months,,
and leave it incumbent on the banker to
render an account and deliver up the
money before the end of twelve months.

Grey had fully made up his mind as
to the necessity for a will. Without a
will there would in all likelihood be Chancery
proceedings ; and while no one in
Daneford would dream of suspecting Grey,
or ask details of the account, much less
verification of the items, the Chancery

folk will go through the whole affair asa
matter of routine, and not as a matter
of precaution, or because of any suspicion.


Let there be a will, by all means.

It was fine to drive through the bright
sunlight of that glorious May weather,
and feel that the gold was overtaking
the lead. It was better than recovering
from a long illness ; it was coming back,
to life and green fields and the voices of
birds and the pressure of hands we love,
out of the dark, damp, noisome tomb.

When Mr. Grey arrived at Island Ferry
he alighted, told the driver of the fly
to wait for him, and took the boat to
the Island.

As soon as he arrived at the Castle
he was shown into the dreary deserted
banquet-room.

Here he found irrepressible little Mrs.
Grant waiting for him. After some time

he gathered from her how matters stood,
and sent up his name to the sick man.

Sir Alexander would see Mr. Grey.

When the hanker reached the room
where the baronet lay, he was greatly
shocked at the change which had taken
place in the latter since the last time
they had met, although that was only
a few days ago.

There had always been a bright bloom,
the bloom of old age heightened and
deepened by the malady which afflicted
him chronically, on the old man's face.
Now the cheeks were puffed and purple,
and the eyes, once so keen and cold,
were dull and restless and impatient.

The long thin sinewy hands lay outside
the counterpane, and the voice of the
sufferer when he spoke was tremulous,
querulous, making a painful contrast to
the firm, clear, thin, biting speech of other
days.

After the usual greetings and Grey's
expression of sorrow for his indisposition,
the old man spoke quickly, and in an
unsteady voice.

These doctors have been worrying me
to-day, Grey, and I am very glad you
have come. I want to talk to you. Pull
that curtain a little across the window ;
I hate the sunlight. Thank you, Grey.
Sit down now, where I can see you.
It's a comfort to look at a man like
you after those false prophets and hoarse
ravens. The doctors have been with me,
Grey ; and they tell me I should make
my will. Now I'm not talking to you
as a medical man, but as a man of business.
What do you say ?"

Have you spoken to Mr. Shaw about
the matter % " asked the banker softly.

No ; I have not spoken to Shaw
about it. I hate lawyers," cried the old
man pettishly.

"If I hated lawyers," returned Grey,
with a shy smile, " I should not be without
a will for four-and-twenty hours."

"Why?" demanded the old man, with
a contraction of the brows and a glance
of suspicion directed at an imaginary
group of lawyers.

You know, Sir Alexander, lawyers
have a special prayer, asking for the
management of intestate estates." He
raised his eyebrows and smiled archly
at the prostrate man.

I don't understand you, Grey. These
doctors, with their fears and their jargon,
have confused me. What do you mean ?"

For a moment the banker looked at
the baronet uneasily. Could it be that
already his mind was becoming clouded
or torpid ? After a moment's observation
and thought, Grew decided that the old
man was only dazed and tired.

What I mean, Sir Alexander, is, that

in cases where there is no will, the law-costs
often consume the whole estate, and
always eat up enormously more money
than where there is a sound will."

The old man reflected awhile.

"Have you made your own will?"
he asked.

Certainly. I could not rest if I
thought what little fortune I may have
should, instead of going to my wife, be
scattered about in this and that court, in
this and that litigation. As I go home
the ferry-boat may overturn and I maybe
drowned, the horse may run away
and I may be killed. Making a will has
with me no connection with good or bad
health. It is a business thing which
ought, on the principle of economy, to be
done in time. In nothing more than in
making a will is it true that a stitch intime
saves nine ? "

There was a long pause.

Grey !"

"Yes, Sir Alexander."

You helped me to put this fortune
together for my daughter."

A bow of deprecation.

You have been ten years now taking
care of it for her."

"Yes, Sir Alexander." What was
coming now ? Could all this be a ruse f
Was this serene interview to end in a
storm of intolerable ruin ? Had this
old man been leading up with deceiving
equanimity to some prodigious burst, some
unendurable tempest of reproach ?

"Will you go still farther?"

"In what way ?"

Will you act as one of the executors,
the chief — no, as the sole, as sole trustee
and guardian?"

What ! Sir Alexander, Sir Alexander,
are you — are you trifling with me ? If
you are, give it up. I cannot, I will not,

be trifled with." His face shrivelled up,
and he covered it in his hands. For that
brief space he thought all had been
discovered.

What I say I mean. Why should
I trifle with you ? If I am to die or be
killed, let me die with the knowledge
that the fortune of my child will be as
safe when I am dead as it is now. Will
you do this, Grey, for me?"

"I will."

"Then you may tell Shaw to come.
Go to him at once. I wish to make my
will."

WAT GREY'S ROMANCE DIES OUT.

Mr. Grey's drive to Castle Ferry had
been an excursion to meet victory ; his
return to Daneford was a triumphant
progress.

Now it seemed to him nothing short
of a conspiracy between fate and accident
could wreck him. The two chances which
had threatened him with ruin had melted
into thin air. Nothing adverse to him
would be in the will, and not only that,
but from the day of Sir Alexander's death
until the coming of age of Miss Midharst
he would have absolute control of affairs,
and every chance of making good the

sum he had abstracted. The gold was
^oiris; to beat the lead at a walk.

The financial world was now in a
state of deplorable despondency, but that
condition of things could not last for ever.
There was of course no prospect of his
making a tenth part of the half a million
profit during the twelve months ; but the
St. George's Bank was gone, and deposits
would come flowing in, and having obliged
his London agents in their need, they
could not refuse him anything in reason
by-and-by. After riding out the bad
times his credit would be so firmly
established that he could get money on
the best terms to build up the horrible
gap he had made. He could borrow to
replace what he had stolen.

"I shall win now, and I shall win
easily," he thought, as he drove through
the bright fresh air towards Daneford ;
and by the time there is another

dissolution, who can tell but I may take
one of the seats for the city, if it is offered
to me."

He went straight to Mr. Shaw, and
told that gentleman how Sir Alexander
Midharst desired to see him with a view
to making his will, and how the client,
although in no immediate danger of
death, was nevertheless in a state of
health which made it highly desirable
his worldly affairs should be put in order
as quickly as possible.

Mr. Shaw visited the Castle that
evening, wrote from the baronet's dictation,
and on Monday, the 4th of June, 1866,
the will was signed by Sir Alexander in
the presence of two competent witnesses,
who, in the presence of the testator and
of one another, affixed their signatures.

A few days afterwards Mr. Gray met

the lawyer.

Well," said the banker, with one of

his easiest smiles, " did you do what was
required at the Castle ? ,:

"Yes," answered the white-haired solicitor,
who was tremulous, and had a
disconcerting way of shutting his eyes and
consulting imaginary internal Acts of Parliament
when he spoke. He was not by
nature communicative, and he held in rigid
regard all professional etiquette ; but Mr.
Henry Walter Grey was a very exceptional
man, and, moreover, the testator had told
him Mr. Grey had consented to act as
guardian and trustee ; therefore he did
not feel he committed any impropriety in
adding : " Sir Alexander appears to share
public feeling in your favour, and to place
unlimited confidence in our most careful
banker."

"You are very kind," returned Mr.
Grey, with his most cordial smile. "As
you know, our establishment has been a
long time connected with the Castle, and

vol. I. 12

when Sir Alexander asked me to act, it
would look ungracious in me to refuse. "
It's a heavy responsibility."
"Oh, as far as the responsibility
goes " He did not finish the sentence
in words, but with a shrug of his
shoulders, as much as to say : " We
bankers are accustomed to grave responsibilities."
Then the two parted.

From this conversation Grey not only
gathered that the will had been made, but
also that under it he had been appointed
executor and trustee to the document and
the estate, and guardian to the heiress.

AVhat more could he require to put his
mind at rest ?

And yet as the days went on he was
far from easy. Many things caused him
trouble and made him anxious. The gloom
over the financial world deepened instead
of lifting. The ordinary depositors grew
shyer and shyer, as crash followed crash,

and house followed house, in the awful
ruin of the time.

No one breathed a word against the
Daneford Bank ; all who spoke of it
acknowledged its position unassailable ;
still its business showed no vast increase,
no such increase as would help Grey out
of the whirlpool into which he had been
drawn, although the Bank's borrowing
power had been secured.

From bad, things went to worse. As
the year wore on, some of his best customers
began to feel the pressure of the
times. Instead of finding funds flowing
into the Bank in unexampled abundance,
money ran out.

Old respectable firms now came to him
and asked to be helped over the disastrous
period. They brought this security and
that, and begged for advances. If the
name and fame of the Bank were to be
magnified, this .was the time to do it.

He had still funds enough to make the
Bank proof .against contingency ; over and
above this he had a little margin, not
much, but most useful.

About the middle of June the Weeslade
Steamship Company quarrelled with their
bankers, the Weeslade Valley Bank. The
Steamship Company wanted an advance of
five thousand pounds on the river steamboat
Rodwell, which carried passengers
between Daneford and SeaclifT. The Wees-
lade Valley Bank refused. The Steamship
Company withdrew their account from the
Valley Bank, and offered their business to
the Daneford Bank. The account was
opened in the Daneford, and the advance
was made by mortgage on the Rod well,
the Steamship Company paying interest
on the advance, and depositing with the
mortgage a policy of insurance against
total loss by water or weather.

Towards the end of June the Daneford

Bank's London agent failed, by which the
Bank lost a clear twenty thousand pounds,
besides losses by delay in getting a dividend.
This was very serious. It caused
a run on the Daneford Bank. In three
days thirty thousand pounds were withdrawn
in excess of average draughts.

On the morning of the third day the
Daneford Bank issued a circular which
took the town by storm. The circular
was brief, and ran as follows :

"Thursday, 28th June, 1866.

"The Daneford Bank.
Take notice, owing to the fact that
a run has begun on the Daneford Bank,
the offices of that Bank will be opened
every morning at eight instead of nine,
and will be closed at seven instead of four
p.m., until this run has ceased.

"Henry Walter Grey."

This circular was town talk the next

day. The admirers of Wat were more
enthusiastic than ever in their praises of
his boldness and wisdom. This circular
killed the panic, and on Saturday of
the same week the drawings had shrunk
back to an average. Yet for another
week the Bank was kept open from
eight in the morning till seven in the

evening.

On Monday, the 9th of July, a second
circular was issued from the Bank, saying
that as the run had ceased for a week the
office hours for the future would be as of
old, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.

But, although the run had ceased, upwards
of thirty thousand pounds had been
withdrawn, and only five thousand found
its way back again, and that was decidedly
bad. The Bank was not in the least
jeopardy. Sir Alexander Midharst's half
a million had saved it ; but the baronet's
money was not only not returning, but

the balance of it in hand began to run
low.

Notwithstanding all this business pressure
and the perilous position in which
Grey stood, no one could detect in his
face or manner a clue to the anxiety
which consumed him. Still he was the
same joyous companion, the same jovial
host, the same considerate employer, the
same liberal patron.

To his mother he displayed the best
view of his position. He showed her how
the steamship business had fallen in to
him because he was in funds and could
give accommodation beyond the power of
his local rival. He admitted the loss in
London, but pointed out how the loss and
the run, taken together, must end in great
advantage to his Bank.

She heard not only his story, but, from
all who spoke to her on the subject, congratulations
upon the Bank's position and

his great prudence and good sense. He
told her the money from Boston had not
only saved him, but had so improved his
resources that the Bank was now in fully
as good a position as at any time during
his father's lifetime.

Hard as the business affairs of Mr.
Grey pressed upon him, and difficult ashe
felt the burden, they were not all the
troubles he had to endure.

In order to prevent bankruptcy he
had committed fraud. Up to this time
he had carried on that fraud without
exciting a hint of suspicion. The man
whose money he had appropriated to his
own use not only felt no misgivings as
to the safety of his vast hoard, but had
recently lavished upon him, Grey, the last
proofs of implicit confidence when placing
practically all that fortune and the care
of the heiress in his hands.

But, as well as the pressure - of his

business and the weight of his crime, he
had other difficulties to endure. He still
entertained his friends with his usual
hospitality and good grace, but the condition
of the inner circle of his domestic
life grew daily harder and harder to bear.

The eccentricity of Mrs. Grey developed
with time, and, still more unfortunately,
the terrible infirmity to which she had
given way increased upon her with, the
years.

She was childless ; she was alone all
day in that great strange house ; few
people called upon her, and she rarely
went out. Her husband was always kind
in manner towards her, and she could
ask for nothing he would not get her.
But she knew he and she were not one,
that they never had been one, that they
never could be one.

Mr. Grey did not lunch at home, so
that Mrs. Grey usually had luncheon by

herself, except upon the rare occasions
when one of her few acquaintances called
and stayed.

Seldom Mr. Grey dined out ; often
he had someone to dine with him, and
often he gave parties. All this caused
Mrs. Grey to be much by herself, and
solitude was, for one of her disposition
and tendency, fatal.

By little and little the disastrous
habit grew. It was most carefully concealed
from the servants. At first Grey
had tried to effect a cure ; then, despairing
of that, he strove with all his skill
to avoid a scandal.

With that view he had a little cupboard
fitted up in the only room furnished in the
Tower. For this cupboard he got two
keys — one for himself, and one for his
wife. In giving her the key he had said
quietly :

In future you will find the wine for

ordinary purposes in the new cupboard ;
so that you may not have the trouble of
sending to the cellar for it, or in case
I am out and you want more than is
decanted, you can get it there. You
will always have some there without
sending; to the cellar for it."

But we don't want any more than
is decanted — so few people call," said the
wife tremulously.

I know, I know. But someone may
call, and as I keep the key of the cellar
you might find yourself in a difficult
position. Take this key of the cupboard,
and here is the key of the room itself;
there is only one other key, and I have
that. The room is the quietest in the
whole house. The door lochs on either the
in or the outside. The room is comfortably
done up, and you can make any use you
please of it. If you feel worried, or not
very well, and wish to get away from the

annoyance of the servants, you can go
and lie down a while there''

These precautions were deplorable and
degrading. All the love he had once
borne this woman had died ; and although
he carefully concealed his feelings towards
her, he had at last come to regard her
with loathing.

She was in no way responsible for the
disasters which had fallen on his business ;
she furnished no excuse for the crime he
had committed, but she was one of the
elements in his misfortune ; and now that
she had fallen into an odious fault, he
resolved to put no impediment in her
downward career, so long as her descent
did not become apparent or public.

It was a sad development of the
romantic and chivalric story of Wat
Grey's wooing. But then, so long as
Daneford knew nothing of the decay of
that romance or the decline of that

chivalry, the fact that both were going —
gone, was of little moment to Wat Grey.

His embezzlement of the money had
taught him that damaging facts had no
injurious influence with the public — soso
long as the facts were carefully con ■
ceased. He found crime an easier burden
than he had expected, and in place of
his old dread of crime itself he had now
a dread of disclosure only. If he had
grown to hate his wife, what then — so
long as no one knew of it.

Up to this point Fate seemed to have
played deliberately into his hands. He
had ruined himself in Southern expectations,
Fate had put more than half a
million of money into his power, and he
had extricated his fortune. An unlucky
turn of the die might have betrayed him,
and given him up to worse destruction
than the former, but all came round as
though he had the ordering of events.

Not only was there to be no immediate
call for that money, no immediate investigation
into accounts with, a checking of
documents and an examination of affairs,
but he was appointed supreme custodian
of the whole property, and, for upwards
of a year from the old man's death, no
enquiry disadvantageous to him could beset
on foot.

Suppose the old man were to die soon,
and business were to keep on the disastrous
lines it had adopted of late ? What
then?

What then ?

Many and many a day he put that
question to himself in the morning before
he broke his fast ; and again at night
before he went to bed he repeated this
terrible question — unanswered.

And the more he pondered over this
question the less he liked to look at the
answer. Not that the simple and direct

answer appalled him, for that had been
familiar to his mind for some time ; the
simple answer was, Ruin — Self-imposed
Death.

That was the positive answer to the
question ; but that did not affright him
now, though it had terrified him at first.

He was still what might be called a
young man, for he carried his five-and-forty
years more easily than many
another man carried thirty. He was
not a whit insensible to the many physical
and social personal advantages he
possessed. He knew he was a favourite
wherever he went. He knew he was
good-looking. He knew he was clever.

He knew he was married.

His wife had brought him nothing
worth speaking of — not position, happiness.
He had been everything to her,
and how poorly had she requited him !
It was only by the utmost care he

avoided a damning scandal alighting upon
his name through her.

Fortune had favoured him up to this.
Would Fortune be his friend still further ?
Was it too much to hope that another
great piece of good luck might await
him ?

There was one sure way out of all
his danger and difficulties, if he had only
been a single man : there was Maud.

If, when Sir Alexander died, he were
a bachelor, he might marry Maud. She
knew nothing of the world, and he knew
she liked him. There would be no need
for his ruin if he were only a bachelor.

It was beyond the power of Fate to
make him a bachelor ; but suppose Fate
should take away that unloved wife, that
great danger to his name, that great
stumbling-block in the way of his successful
progress ?

Then? What then? Answer: He

should many Maud, and so wipe out
the history of his crime.

Would chance or accident, would
Heaven or Hell, or whatever else he
might call it, take away from him this
woman who was a curse and burden,
and give him that woman who would
bring him deliverance ?

Such thoughts had long haunted his
mind before he had heard on that
17th of August the voices which assailed
and tempted him in tremendous tones ;
that day on which the fate of the steamboat
Rodwell and of Beatrice his wife, of
the Weird Sisters and the Towers of
Silence, became sealed together for ever.

vol. i. 13

A FLASK OF Cognac.

"When the Weeslade Valley Bank declined
to advance five thousand pounds on the
Weeslade Steamship Company's river 
the Rodwell, they had two
reasons for the refusal : first, they were
not prepared to lock up money at the
time ; second, a report reached them that
the Rodwell was in bad condition.

In the winter of the year 1865 the
Rodwell had lain up, undergoing repairs,
and then the discovery was made that
her condition was far from satisfactory.
Many of her plates were no thicker than
brown-paper, and just at the bends aft

the point of a scraper had absolutely
gone through a plate.

The boilers, too, were found to be
in an unsatisfactory condition, and the
machinery needed thorough overhauling.

But they wanted the boat for the
summer traffic, and had no time to get
all she required done before the fine
weather ; so she was patched for the time,
the intention being to lay her up the
following autumn and put her in good
repair ; in the meantime one new boiler
was to-be made for her.

Towards the middle of AjDril she began
running as usual with passengers between
Daneford and Seacliff.

On her third trip she broke down ;
something went wrong with her machinery,
and she had to be towed into Seacliff by
another steamer.

As this accident occurred early in the
season there were few passengers, and

little excitement arose from the circumstance.


Almost the whole trade of the Rodwell
consisted of carrying seaside folk from
Daneford to Seacliff and back again. She
sailed every week-day of the season from
Seacliff to Daneford at half-past seven in
the morning, and from Daneford to Sea-cliff
at half-past six in the afternoon.
Many of the business men of the city
kept their families all the season at
Seacliff, they themselves coming and going
between the little town and the city
daily, and enjoying the advantages of
sleeping in sea - freshened air and two
bright pleasant sails of a couple of hours
each in the day.

When, in overhauling the Rodwell in
1865, they found the boilers in not a
satisfactory condition, they took off five
pounds of steam. " Better to be sure
than sorry," they said. This reduction of

steam made the Rodwell slower in 1866
than in previous years.

On Tuesday, the 14th of August, 1866,
the engineer of the Rodivell made a
report to the owners, and was directed
to work her at another five pounds'
reduction of pressure.

When Grey advanced the five thousand
pounds on the mortgage he made no enquiry
into her condition. He knew the boat very
well, had many times travelled by her
between Daneford and Seacliff. He knew
she was worth more than the money asked
for, and as no mortgage existed upon her
he felt he should be quite secure if the
company ensured her, and handed him a
policy for five thousand pounds. His
position was that if the company did
not pay the interest on his money and
his money itself, ultimately he could seize
the Rodwell ; and if the steamboat were
lost by any chance of wind or water he

should get his money from the insurance
company.

Mr. Grey was as familiar with the
steamboat Rodwell as any man in Dane-ford.
He had often spent the summer
months with his wife at Seacliff, and had
been a passenger in the boat hundreds
of times. He knew all the men employed
on her ; he knew every exterior brass
plate and hinge and bolt. He could go
about her blindfold, and steer her up or
down the river. He didn't understand
machinery, but often said he could command,
steer, and attend to the engines
all by himself, and save the wages of the
crew.

Daneford was proud of all its institutions,
and after Wat there were few it
felt more complaisant about than the
pretty town and picturesque scenery of
Seacliff and the faithful Bod well, the town
being regarded as the country sweetheart,

the milkmaid lover of the city, and the
steamboat as the Mercury of the love-making.


It was Grey's intention to spend the
month of September, 1866, at Seacliff.
He did not own a house there. It had
been his custom to rent a small white
cottage that hung half-way down a red
cliff surrounding one of the blue bays
clustering around the high headland on
which the white town was built.

He did not regard his sojourn at
Seacliff with any lively anticipations. It
was pleasant to steam up and down the
blue river between the sunlit green shores,
through the sweet odours from the woods
and hedges freshened and spiritualised by
the full broad river. The morning swim
in the strong sea-water brought the sense
of health and vigour and power into his
frame. The breakfast, ample, well cooked,
appetising, with blithe company, full of

inspiriting talk and resolute happiness, in
the steamer's cabin, would cure a misanthrope
and buoy the heart of a cynic.
The joyous solemnity of that cigar on
deck afterwards would reconcile an
anchorite to comfort. Yet for all these
advantages Henry Walter Grey did not
like his season at SeaclifT.

The evening voyage was no less to be
enjoyed. After the dust and worry of
the city's day it was good to feel the
moist winds blowing through your hair,
against your forehead ; to hear the cooling
swirl of the water at the bow, and the
far-off wash of the steamer's swells upon
the shadowy shore ; to watch the crimson
sunset, and the coming of the pale-blue
stars, and the red moon that, slowly
rising from the hot earth to the limpid
sky, grew mild and fair, while under it
the white earth sailed silent down the
ocean of the dark ; to feel the hallowed

peace of night ascending from earth to
God.

But it ruined all to know in that
cottage above the bay on the ledge of red
cliff one waited who was no companion,
yet bound to him for life ; to know year
by year the chasm between them widened ;
and that above that chasm hung a spirit
of evil, the bad angel of a terrible weakness,
which might at any moment become
visible to all those standing by, and ruin
her, and bring on him pity — pity, that
boneless scorn more unendurable than
contempt or loathing.

In the deep seclusion of the Manor,
Grey felt the skeleton in his house was
pretty safely hidden ; here in Seacliff there
were innumerable chances of discovery.
It is more than likely he would not have
gone to Seacliff in the summer if by any
possibility he could safely avoid it. But
all the well-off people of Daneford went

every year to the little town, and to
depart from the custom would be to attract
a dangerous attention to himself and his
household. It had been his custom of
former years to stay at Seacliff for three
months of summer; but in the year 1866
he resolved to limit his stay to one month
the month of September.

When he and she were at home in
the Manor House, she was more directly
under his control, immediately under his
observation. But on leaving Seacliff in
the morning he was always weighed down
by the dread that in this little town of
much gossip something might leak out
while he was away. She might go into
the town, and in some incautious way
betray her fault, and destroy all the
respect people felt for her — all the respect
they felt for his wife.

What an awful millstone to carry about
with one ! Fancy the men at the street-corners

chatting together, or groups standing
at the Chamber of Commerce windows, or
the members of the Club, or his own staff
at the Bank, looking after him with compassionate
eyes, and saying : " Poor Wat !
How sad and worn and broken-down he
looks ! What a wretched thing ! What
a dreadful thing when a man's wife is
a — drunkard ! "

The last word was always haunting
his ears, always booming in the hollow
caverns through which his fears followed
him during sleep ; and although the habit
of Mrs. Grey had not yet become so confirmed
as to justify the application of
such an odious epithet, her case was
growing no better, growing rather worse
with time.

All the Midharst money was gone.
Her fault was at most a vice ; but he
had committed a crime. He lay between
two fears ; he was threatened by two

discoveries. Someone mis^lit find out
about her, and blast the fame of the
Manor House ; someone might find out
about him, and blast the Daneford Bank,
and lock him up in jail, and brand the
name he bore with ignominy.

In such a state of mind was Grey
when the 16th of August arrived and
evening brought him home. The husband
and wife sat down alone to dinner, sat
down alone to the last dinner they were
ever to eat together.

Bee," said Grey to his wife, when
the dessert had been brought in and the
servants had gone, " do you think you
could go down to Seacliff in the Rodwell
tomorrow evening, and look up the cottage
? I saw the estimable and penurious
landlord of it to-day. It's not occupied
this month, and he wanted me to take
it from the 20th. I'm half inclined to
accept his offer. He says we can have

it from the 20th of this month to the
end of September for a month's rent.
It would be almost worth while to take
him at his word, and hear how he'd
whine if I gave him a cheque for the
month's rent only. What are those two
famous items out of last year's bill ?"

"Brunswick varnish, for the kitchen
coal-scuttle, 2d. ; and a pair of brass stair-eyes,
one lost and one damaged, 2d."
quoted Mrs. Grey seriously, as if the
imposition was intolerable.

"Yes, yes. That's it. Brunswick
varnish and stair - eyes," laughed Grey.
And at the end of all the items for
damage was the general observation :
The same being in excess of reasonable
wear and tear.' Didn't he make us
whiten all the ceilings, too, on the
grounds that we stopped far into the
season and blackened them with the
lamps ?"

"Yes, Watts

it three or four times we have
paid, Bee, for cracking that soup-tureen ?
The old crack, you know."

We've paid, I think, Wat, only
twice for that crack, but he has charged
us with the ladle every year, although
we never had one."

"Why, this old Parkinson is much
more amusing than a state-jester of old,
and not half so impudent or expensive."
Mr. Grey smiled, and rubbed his smooth
cheek with his white hand. After a
moment's enjoyment of his recollections
of Parkinson, he returned to the question.
Well, Bee, will you go down in the
Roclivell with me tomorrow evening?
We can have a breath of sea-air, a look
at Parkinson and the cottage, and come
back by the boat in the morning."

"Very well, Wat. Of course I'll go
with you."

Now let me see. The best plan will
be for you to go from this to the boat.
Be on board at a quarter-past six, and stay
there until I come. You won't forget ? "

"No, Wat."

"You're quite sure you won't forget?"
Of late Mrs. Grey's memory had shown
signs of giving way.

cc I'll be there, certainly," she answered,
a little hotly. " You don't think my
memory is so bad I am likely to forget
anything that gives me a chance of getting
out of this dull house."

Because," he said, holding up his
finger to quiet her displeasure, " I may
not be able to get away from the office
until just half-past six. I shall be at the
boat in time. You will go aboard and
sit down aft, and wait for me."

Having thus arranged for the following
evening, Grey lapsed into silence, and his
wife withdrew.

Those after-dinner hours, which, to the
prosperous man are the most placid and
full of content, were now to Grey full of
fears and subtle agonies when he had no
company. The necessity all through the
day for showing a fair front to the world
and keeping up his reputation for cordial
joviality no longer existed when he found
himself alone in his own dining-room.

Then he exposed his imagination to
all the dangers and difficulties in his path.
Here, this 16th of August, was he safe
over all the wreck of that awful month
of May, but at what a cost ? The commission
of a disgraceful crime and the
perpetual dread of a damning discovery.

The financial crisis had shattered trade,
dispersed confidence, and ruined enterprise.
The last penny of the baronet's
money had been taken, and was gone ;
and yet no remarkable prosperity, nothing
in the meanest way approaching what he

had calculated upon, had set in towards
him. Even in the recent days of over-trading,
when money was dear, the deposits
in the Daneford Bank had been more than
during the past few months. Things were
not likely to mend in time for him. At
the present rate twenty years could not
bring in half the sum he wanted, and he
might be called to disgorge within eighteen
months, within a much less time should
the old baronet suddenly die and matters
take a turn unfavourable to his interest
with regard to the guardianship of the
heiress — his care over her not reaching,
he supposed, beyond her twenty-first
birthday. Merciful Heavens ! what could
deliver him ?

And then followed the invariable
reply: There is nothing to save you
from infamy but marriage with Maud
Midharst.

Then the memory of his wife's faults
vol. i. 14

came up before him like an indictment
seeking her life. She was flighty, unwise,
dull, uncompanionable — intemperate.

She was no pleasure to him. She
seemed to be the source of no pleasure
to herself. If the Powers of good would
only take her, what a blessed relief to
him !

If the Powers of any denomination
-whatever would only take her and leave
him free !

He rose, and strode up and down
the long room, his face puckered and
pinched, his hands clutched, his eyebrows
dragged down over his eyes until the
-eyes disappeared, those eyes wont to be
so free and open.

If the Powers of any denomination

whatever His thoughts paused a

while, his brows relaxed, his whole face
changed character, put on holiday attire.
With a light foot and a pleasant smile

he approached the chimney-piece and
pulled the bell.

James," he said, when the man
entered, " bring me a flask of cognac."

While the servant was going to the
cellar he said to himself, with a gentle
smile, " I have been very thoughtless
about that press in the Tower of Silence.
I have left claret and port and sherry
there, but until now I never remembered
brandy ! How careless I have been."

In a few minutes James returned with
the bottle, drew the cork, decanted the
brandy, and left.

Grey took up the decanter with a
cordial smile on his face, walked towards
the tower-room, the first-floor room in
the Tower of Silence upon the top of
which the wasted skeleton of the huo'e
tank stood out clear against the quiet
summer stars.

It was now past eleven o'clock. No

profounder silence reigned by night in
deserted mine deep in the bowels of the
earth, in Asian desert open to the
glittering stars and the pale radiance of
the moon, on the dark peaks of mighty
alp that reaches upward into the thin
windless air, than in the chambers and
passages of the fearful Manor House.

As he draws near the door of the
tower-room he carries the decanter of
brandy in one hand, a lighted candle in
the other. When only a few feet separate
him from the door he pauses suddenly,
and looks earnestly forward. There are
two keys for that door, one is on his
ring, the other is in the possession of his
wife. He holds the lamp high above his
head, and listens intently. Yes ; there
is someone inside.

While he waits he hears a lock shot
Presently the door opens, and with a cry
of surprise and fear his wife confronts him.

Bee," he says, without allowing the
smile to relax, " is this you ? I thought
you were gone to bed."

I went to my room," says the unhappy
woman, trembling and looking down, " but
I could not sleep. I was very nervous
and — and, Wat, I thought a glass of port
might do me good."

Of course it will. Of course it will,"
he says, in a soft voice. " I was just going
to put this in the cupboard." He holds
up the decanter.

What is that ? " she asks, in a voice
full of uneasiness and fear.

Only a little brandy. It's not a rattlesnake
or a petard that you need be afraid
of, Bee," he replies, in a bantering tone.

No, no, Wat," she cries, drawing
back a pace and holding up her hands
as though she saw some fearful object
in her way. " We don't want any brandy
here. Indeed we don't."

What nonsense ! " lie laughs. " But,
seriously, Bee, you know we must have-some
brandy here. Suppose one of the
servants, or any chance caller were to
become suddenly faint, wdiat could you
do without brandy ? "

Don't put it there, Wat ! For my
sake, for God's sake, don't put it there ? "
She covers her face with her hands, and
trembles again.

There now, Bee, go to bed, and don't
be silly. I should never be able to forgive
myself if any harm came of there being
no brandy that could be readily got at."

With slow heavy steps the woman
passes him, and, as she reaches the end
of the short corridor, throws up her
hands to heaven, sobs out, " God be
merciful to me ! " and bursts into tears.

He waits until she is out of the passage,
then shrugs his shoulders, and, with
the old, genial smile upon his face deposits

the decanter of cognac in the cupboard
of the room on the first floor of the
tower, of that tower which, in a moment
of grim humour, he had called the Tower
of Silence.

ON THE THRESHOLD OF DEATH.

Mr. Grey breakfasted early, Mrs. Grey
late. Nothing was said by either to the
other on the night of the lath. On
Friday morning, the morning of the 17th
of August, 1866, Mrs. Grey was still
sleeping when her husband left the house.
The morning was bright and clear,
and as the banker strode on briskly to
the city he hummed an air to keep him
company. His voice was indifferent, his
ear was indifferent, and yet it was more
invigorating to hear him blundering out
wild approximations to a tunc than to
listen to a moderately accompli-lied 

vocalist. The banker seemed
unable to keep the natural gladness of
his nature within bounds ; the accomplished
vocalist follows an every-day handicraft or
trade with the tools of which he is familiar
and expert.

As Grey walked to his office that bright
Friday morning he met many friends and
acquaintances. He had a nod, a wave of
the hand, a cheerful word, a kind enquiry,
a jovial wish, a congratulation for each,
according to person and circumstances.

He carried his black bag in his hand.
In the black bag were some books, some
papers, and the revolver. Nothing particular
occurred to him on the way to
the Bank. Nothing particular awaited
him upon his arrival at the office. All
was going on smoothly and prosperously
but very slowly, very slowly towards
bringing back the baronet's money.

Two was his luncheon hour, and at

two he went out. He lunched at his
club, and then strolled down to the
Chamber of Commerce to see the latest
Exchange telegrams, and have a chat
with some of the merchants and traders
and ship owners of Daneford. He got
back to the office at a little after three.

Nothing particular had occurred during
his absence. He went into his private
room and disposed of some routine affairs.
Then, having no business to do, he threw
up the window, and looking out, began
to whistle softly a recitative of his own
invention.

After a little while he stopped whistling,
and thought : ." I shall be here two hours
by myself this evening. I don't think I
could do anything better than burn that
book." In a little while more he made
up his mind. " Yes ; I will burn it. It
would tell against me in any case. Even
suppose by any miracle I am able to get

that money together again, the dates
would betray me. Then it is better to
have neither book nor Stock than a telltale
book only. Dead men and burnt
books tell no tales. Yes ; up the chimney
it shall go. If I am able to replace that
money, the making of a new book will
be an easy task, a graceful amusement."

Mr. Grey had always kept the Midharst
(Consols) account in his own handwriting,
and in a book to which none but himself
had access. This was a small book bound
in rough calf, having a patent lock and
key. Before the Bank closed at four
o'clock he went down to the strong-room
and took up this book to his private
office.

By about half-past four all the clerks
had left the office, and Mr. Aldridge had
gone out to pick up an appetite for dinner.
Grey locked the two doors that led into
his office, opened the little ledger, and

having cut the book out of the cover, he
locked up the cover in a safe in the wall
of his own office. There were two reasons
for doing this : 1. The cover was, with
the appliances at his command, indestructible.
2. He could get new paper bound
into the old cover ; and those of his staff
who were familiar with the outside of the
book would not be able to detect any
difference between the original and the
counterfeit.

When the cover of the book had been
concealed under lock and key lie sat down
in front of the grate, and began tearing
up the book into single leaves, and
burning each one separately in the empty
grate.

As the record of the baronet's twenty
years of grinding, exaction, and penurious
living changed into flame and smoke and
ashes, Grey's thoughts were busy with the
awful aspects of his position, and now,

for the first time, a new element of fear
entered into the ease.

He suddenly stopped in his work and
looked round him with a ghastly smile.
Last night he had been calculating
that his only way of avoiding exposure
lay through the freedom of himself to
marry Maud. But suppose anything were
to happen to his wife now. Suppose she
died that very day ; suppose she had died
a week ago, a month ago; what would
have occurred ? He should then be a
childless widower, younger in appearance
and in manner than in years, and even
young enough in years to be the suitor
of any girl. Was it likely if he were
so circumstanced Sir Alexander might not
think of altering the will, of introducing
into it another guardian, executor, or
trustee ? True, Sir Alexander was not an
ordinary man, and had unlimited confidence
in him, Grey ; but surely he could.

not be such a fool as to leave his daughter
and his daughter's fortune in the hands
solely of a popular, good-looking, and
an agreeable widower of forty-five ?

The thought flurried him, and he
gasped and covered his face with his
handkerchief, and leaned upon the mantelpiece.


Last night it had appeared to him
nothing more advantageous to his fortune
could arise than the death of his wife.
Now that event seemed the most disastrous
which could befall him. The more
he looked at the whole situation the more
hopeless his position appeared. What last
night he regarded as the gateway to
deliverance now was the cavern of ruin.
Well, he had begun burning this book,
and he might as well finish it. Destroying
could have no important influence
for evil on the case, and might be beneficial
or have a mitigating influence.

At last the whole book lay in a mass
of black and blue ashes at his feet. He
stood in front of the pile for a few
moments thinking. "Between that book
and me there is great similarity. It was
once truthful, then it recorded a lie, and
snow it is burnt and black. I was once
honest ; I fell ; and now my position, my
prospects, and my hopes are in ashes.
There is no chance of escape."

It was after five o'clock. He rang
the bell ; as he did so, he heard the
street-bell ring also.

"Aldridge coming back from his constitutional."
Then, correcting himself, bethought
: "Of course, Aldridge doesn't
ring."

He unlocked the doors, and in a few
minutes the servant knocked and entered.

I want you to tidy up that grate ;
I've been burning some old letters," said
Grey.

"Yes, sir; a letter for you, sir, just

come."

All right ; leave it on my table."

Beg pardon, sir, but it's from the
Castle, and marked immediate."

The banker took it and glanced at
the superscription as the servant withdrew.


"From Mrs. Grant," he muttered.
What can it be now ? "

He tore open the envelope and read
the contents hastily. The note was very
brief. Sir Alexander had had a bad
night, and was rather worse this morning.
He particular)* wanted to see Mr. Grey
at once. Would Mr. Grey be so food
as to come instantly upon receipt of this ?
The words in italics were underlined heavily
three or four times.

What can this be ? " he thought.
The last time I got a note from Mrs.
Grant asking me to go to the Castle I

was in the final extremity of apprehension,
and all came much better than I could have
dared to hope. There seems no possibility
of a favourable solution of the present
situation. If the old man is sinking, that
will give me only a year — and that is the
least terrible thing can cause this hasty
summons. Well, go I must, and at once."

He leaped lightly down the stairs,
carrying his bag in his hand, and was
soon driving rapidly towards Island Ferry.

Two miles lay between him and the
city before he remembered his appointment
with his wife on board the Rodwell.

Never mind," he thought, " I'll board
the steamboat as she passes the Island ;
that will make it all right."

By six o'clock he had reached Island
Ferry. Without the loss of a moment he
crossed over to the Island and ascended
towards the Castle.

A servant at once conducted him to

vol. i. 15

Mrs. Grant, who was waiting for him in
the hall-room off the grand entrance-hall.

Mr. Grey, I am so glad you have
come ; we are in such fearful anxiety.
Poor Sir Alexander has got worse and
worse ever since I wrote to you. The
doctors say this is what they have been
dreading all along."

The little woman was in a state of the
greatest excitement, and had completely
lost all sense of proportion. The standards
of her feelings had been broken by
her agitation, and everything that went
wrong seemed of equal importance and
mischief.

"What is the matter now?" the banker
.asked, in a soft sympathetic voice. " I
hope Miss Midharst," he added, before he
Save the little widow time to answer, " is
kept as free as possible from these sad
and depressing scenes.

Oh, yes ; that is, I mean the poor

child is fearfully distressed. She has been
with her father all day. It's not good for
her, but then she wouldn't come away. I
think if you spoke to her it would do her
good. She used to mind a good deal
what I said to her, but all this day she
sits there, staring as if the room was full
of ghosts. I fear there's something bad
the matter with the whole place ; and only
for darling Maud, I'm sure I shouldn't
stop an hour. And to listen to him is
something dreadful. He talks of nothing
but his money and you and robbery "

What ! ' ; exclaimed Grey, loudly and
sharply.

Now," she cried, " you are offended
with me just because I am nervous and
-excitable. Maybe you'd be excited yourself,
Mr. Grey, if he was turning to you
every minute and saying you were a wolf
in sheep's clothing, and that you wanted
to rob his child of the fortune he had

laid by for her. You wouldn't like to be
called a robber, and you're a man, and I
am only a nervous woman ; and men are
more used to that kind of language than
women, although, until now, I did not
know that gentlemen ever used such
words."

Here Mrs. Grant broke down completely,
and sobbed.

By this time Grey had recovered from
the appalling shock caused by Mrs. Grant's
association of himself with theft. He went
up to the sobbing woman, and in his
gentlest accents, having placed his hand
reassuringly on her shoulder, said :

"Mrs. Grant, I am exceedingly sorry
if my hasty exclamation has caused you
any annoyance. Believe me, nothing was
further from my intention than to disturb
you under the distressing circumstance
you describe, and in the very shattered
condition in which your nerves must be.

Forgive me, pray. Do say that you
forgive me."

He pleaded in his most winning voice
and manner ; lie looked upon the friendliness
of Mrs. Grant towards him as of
great importance.

It wasn't your fault, Mr. Grey," said
Mrs. Grant, quieting her sobs. " I know
I am not fit for anything of this kind ;
it always knocks me up."

No wonder. Of course, as you say,
.such expressions are never heard among
gentlemen "

She interrupted him.

I hope I didn't say anything unbecoming
to you ; if I did, I didn't mean
it. I am so worried and confused I don't
know what I'm saying." By this time
she had forgotten the cause of her tears.
What Grey said made her believe she
herself had uttered something offensive to
the banker. " I wonder can it be that

I have caught the fever from Sir Alexander,,
and am not in my right mind?"

No, no, no," laughed Grey reassuringly.
" You need not be afraid of that."
He had no desire to recall to her memory
the words which had drawn from him
the abrupt and disconcerting exclamation.
"And so," he said, in a bland voice,
"poor Sir Alexander's head is wandering."

Oh, yes. He began to be queer last
night, and got worse all the night. This
morning we sent for the doctors, and
they came again in the afternoon. At
the latter visit they said I had better-send
for you, as you were so much in
Sir Alexander's mind, both when he was
raving and when he wasn't."

Then he has lucid intervals ?"

Oh, yes — or, at least, not quite lucid
There are times when he is less wild than
others ; but I think his mind is not quite
free at any time. I have been keeping

you here instead of taking you direct to
him, as I should have done. You will
excuse me ; my poor head is quite gone
too. Will you come with me to him
now {

"Yes," he answered, with a profound
bow.

As he followed her through the dull
stately passages that, although it was still
full daylight, were dim and funereal, he
tried to pierce the veil of the future.
How would this sudden development
of the old man's disease affect him ?
Was the old man in his comparatively
lucid moments capable of altering his will ?
What was the cause of the old man's
desire to see him ? And, above all, how
had this idea of theft come upon him ?

So far as he could now form an
opinion of the case, he did not feel
reassured.

Suppose Mrs. Grant's account of the

baronet's condition of mind in the less
excited moments was overdrawn, and that
while in his periods of delirium he was
haunted by goblin fears of robbers, in
his more collected phases he might be
troubled with reasonable dread of theft
or misappropriation or fraud. Did the
old man desire to destroy or alter his
will ? That was the vital question. If
he did, then surely the lead would overtake
the gold.

The gold ! That gold could never be
won back, not in as many years as it
took the baronet to save it up. Not in
twice as many years, and he might have
no more than one year. The gold could
never overtake the lead now — that is,
the gold, the Consols.

But the gold of a wedding-ring for
Miss Midharst would balance the rive-tons
weight of the baronet's. Little over half
an ounce of gold would outweigh five

tons ; a ring that cost no more than three
guineas would balance a deficit of five
hundred and fifty thousand pounds !

Mrs. Grant softly opened the door of
the sick chamber, and motioning someone
inside to come near, she said, as Miss
Midharst approached :

Maud, dear, here is Mr. Grey ; he
came at once."

The girl offered him her hand, and Grey
took it respectfully, tenderly, and held it,
saying :

I am deeply grieved, Miss Midharst,
at what Mrs. Grant tells me. I hope this
may be only a temporary affection. How
is Sir Alexander now ? "

Oh, he's very, very bad ! " sobbed
the girl, in a whisper. " It was kind
of you to come. He talks of you
always."

I am, believe me, Miss Midharst,
deeply grieved for him, and — you."

Nothing could be more kind and sympathetic
than his voice and manner.

He talks of nothing but you and the-money,"
whispered the girl, through her
tears.

At that moment a shrill shout came
from the bed, followed by the words :

Ah, Grey, is that you % You thieving
scoundrel ! Do you dare to come into my
house, under my roof, after stealing my
darling's fortune ! Bring me my pistols,
I say — some one bring me my pistols!.
I will shoot this miscreant banker Grey
My pistols, I say ! "

BY THE STATE BED.

For a moment Grey paused irresolutely
on the threshold of the sick room. This
was the most alarming ordeal to which
he had been subjected. Could it be that
by any untoward circumstance of disastrous
fate the old man had discovered the truth ?

To be loudly, violently accused of the
crime he had committed by the man whose
money he had stolen, and in the presence
of that man's daughter !

He had often in his worst moments
imagined the position he now occupied,
but had never dared to think of, it had
never entered his moments of wildest fear

to realise, such a scene conducted in the
presence of Miss Midharst and Mrs. Grant.
And now to the horrors of hearing such
words from the defrauded man's lips, was
added the awful question, the appalling
uncertainty in the questions : Did the
baronet know anything ? Did he know
all ?

His name for honour, for honesty, the
existence of the respectable old institution
which had been handed down to him by
his father unsullied, his very life, hung
upon these two questions. There was only
one chance between him and ruin, between
him and death. At these thoughts he
made a prodigious effort, and turning to
the two distracted woman with a forced
smile, and a lip he could not keep from
trembling, said :

I fear my presence only excites Sir
Alexander. Had I not better retire until
he is more calm ? "

Oh, Mr. Grey," said Maud through her
tears, " you must not mind his words.
He does not know what he says. He
does not understand what is said to him.
He does not even know who is in the
room when he is in this state. My poor
father, oh, my poor father ! J: She covered
her face with her hands and sobbed out.

Grey began to breathe more freely.
He whispered, as though the weight of a
mountain were rolling off him, "He does
not know what he says. He does
not know who is in the room. Poor
gentleman ! Poor Sir Alexander ! I am
profoundly sorry for him and for you,
Miss Midharst. You can understand how
much I was surprised to hear him, who
has so long relied upon me, use such
words to me. It was, you must admit,"
he looked from the woman to the girl in
deferential appeal, "rather startling."

We know what he thinks of you

when he is in his right senses, Mr. Grey,"
said Mrs. Grant. "We know he has the
greatest confidence in you."

The banker bowed deeply, and when
he had straightened himself once more,
regarded the widow with profound and
sorrowful attention.

Mrs. Grant continued : "In his lucid
moments he asked for you, and seemed
anxious to see you on business, as of old ;
but when he raved as he did just now,
lie accused us all of taking his money."

What a sad and distracting form of
delusion!" murmured the banker. He
could scarcely contain himself. He would
at that moment have forfeited the Hyc
thousand pounds advanced on the mortgage
of the Rodwell if he might throw
his arms into the air and shout out and
laugh and dance.

The sick man spoke of everyone asa
thief in his frenzy, but in his clear

moments spoke of him, Grey, as of old !
He did not suspect him exclusively ; the
indictment to which he had listened in
paralysed terror had been by accident
preferred against him ; by accident it
might have been preferred against any
other human being with whose name Sir
Alexander was familiar !

The weight of earth had rolled back
from his breast, and he was breathing
more freely than for many a long day.

The three now left the door and walked
into the room. At best the vast chamber
was gloomy, but now all light but a
faint dim glow that clung to the inside
of the curtains was excluded.

Grey placed himself at the side of
the vast bedstead. Sir Alexander had
sold off all his personal furniture ; he
occupied one of the state rooms and slept
in one of the enormous state bedsteads ;
these bedsteads were in the deeds he

could not alter, and had to go down to
the next heir. The first look the "banker
cast at the face of the sick man gave him
a shock.

The old baronet had always had a
colour in his cheeks ; now all the colour
was gone from the cheeks and gathered
into the temples and forehead. The
wrinkled forehead was of a dull brick
colour. The great forked dark vein of
the forehead stood up out of the dry redskin
like the forked mullion of a gothic
window, against whose crimson danes the
west is red. In the temples of the old
man the rugged veins were swollen and
knotted, and in the purple hollows between
the dark blue knots a quick feeble pulse
fluttered and hurried forward like a
frightened hunted beast. Through the
counterpane the thin form showed sharply.
The breathing was quick and unquiet,
the eyes staring and fixed upon the carved

oak ceiling. Apparently the delirious
paroxysm liacl passed, and the patient
was suffering from modified collapse.

"He will be better presently, and may
recognise you," whispered Mrs. Grant into
Grey's ear. She stood by his side. At
the foot stood Maud, weeping softly,
silently. For a while no one moved.

Gradually the breathing of the sick
man grew more steady, and the fluttering
pulse in the hollow temples more regular.

In a few minutes," whispered the
widow, "he will be quite collected."

As she had foretold, his eyes descended
from the ceiling and began running over
the room and those present, as if trying
to recover memory. At length they were
fixed on Grey and did not move from
him. Although the eye was dull and
clouded, there was a look of intelligence
in it. It was the eye of a weakened
intellect rather than of a disordered one.

vol. i. 16

Ah, Grey, is that you ? "

Yes, Sir Alexander. I hope you feel
better ? "

I am quite well. I have been greatly
troubled about that money, those Consols.
They tell me they have been sold. Is it
true that my Consols have been sold ? I
ask you in the presence of my daughter,
for whom they were saved, have they been
sold ? " The sick man's eyes were filmy ;
but while they were dull to the perception
of surrounding objects, they seemed to bo
partly closed against objects of natural
vision only that they might be partly
opened to unascertainable forms and figures
of supernatural view.

Grey's heart quailed. Who were
they " that had informed him of the
fraud ? What did the sick man know of
the fraud ? What did he surmise ? Was
there anything but imagination to account
for these fears, these hideous questions,

this awful ordeal ? He was sorry he had
left his bag below in the little room where
Mrs. Grant had received him. Nothing:
could save him now but a calm exterior
and intrepid audacity. He cleared his
throat to make sure his voice was obedient
to his will, and answered boldly, but
softly :

No one has sold the Consols, Sir
Alexander. I answer you faithfully, in
your presence and in the presence of
Miss Midharst, for whose benefit they
have been acquired and put by."

He was amazed himself at the firmness
and clearness of his voice. If it had been
merely repeating the words of another
man, his voice could not have been
less open to suspicion ; if he had been
pronouncing a most consoling truth,
his manner could not have been more
benignly reassuring. Instead of the words
being those of another, they were so

intimately his own that his existence
depended upon their utterance ; instead
of being true, they contained a lie so
monstrous under the circumstances that
they were as false and wicked as a blasphemous
false oath. He thought to himself
grimly, as he rapidly reviewed the words
and the import of his voice : " I am acting
in a play of the Devil's writing, and must
do honour to the character I represent
and credit to the author."

The eyes of the old man were fixed
on the banker's face as he said : " What
you tell me of my money, her money, is
quite true ? It is quite safe ? No one
has sold out?"

It is quite true ; no one has sold
out."

"Swear it!"

I swear it."

Mrs. Grant, get the Book. I am a
magistrate, and you shall swear the formal

oath, so that you may be punished if
you are hiding the truth from an old
helpless man."

Mrs. Grant placed a Testament on the
bed beside Mr. Grey. The latter took up
the Book. He did not care to question
the legality of such an oath. He thought
he would humour the old man. A crime
or two more were nothing to him now,
particularly when these crimes helped to
cover up the other crime of embezzlement,
theft, fraud — call it what you will.

Mr. Grey took up the Testament, and
Sir Alexander, in a confused way, repeated
words which could not be clearly heard,
but ended with the clause usual to the
sending of a formal oath.

Mr. Grey kissed the Book reverentially,
and murmured the final words. As he
uttered the words, he could not avoid
the reflection that if he were acting in a
play of the Devil's writing, some of the

words to be uttered had a peculiar aspect
as coming from the Master of Evil.

Mr. Grey put the Book on the bed,
and looked with reassuring glance at both
the women. The old baronet muttered
to himself indistinctly for a few seconds.
"Bad dreams, bad dreams," he said distinctly
at last ; " they were only dreams."

Mr. Grey looked round again at the
women and inclined his head significantly
to them, as though he would say : " Poor
Sir Alexander ! His dreams must have
been bad indeed, if he fancied anyone had
taken his money."

By this the great flush had disappeared
from the old man's forehead, the veins
had subsided, and a deadly pallor covered
his features from forehead to chin. During
the paroxysms of his delirium, it seemed
as though his head was in danger of
bursting from too great a supply of
heated blood : now it looked as if the

walls of his skull and the flesh of his
face were about to crumble and fall in
for want of fluid sufficient to sustain
their weight. But in the eye still lingered
the heat and flickered the fire of the fever.
He lay still for a while, and seemed to be
about to fall asleep. Presently, however,
all were startled to hear his voice ring
out clear and firm, high above their
notion of his present strength, clear above
their notion of his intellectual capacity :

Henry Grey, take her hand, my
daughters hand, and lead her here — no
the other hand — give her your left hand,
Henry Grey."

Mr. Grey walked to where the girl
stood, now pale and tearless, at the foot
of the bed, and offered her his right
hand ; then his left, and led her to the
side of the bed, where he had been
standing.

Now, Henry Grey, take the Testament

in your right hand. I am going to make
you swear — I am a deputy-lieutenant — to
guard with all your power and wiles, my
only daughter, Maud Midharst, herself and
her fortune and her happiness. Say the
words after me."

Herself and her fortune and her
happiness to guard with all my power," he
repeated.

"All your power and wiles," insisted
the old man, in a tone of exasperation.

My power and — wiles," repeated Mr.
Grey, after a slight hesitation.

To act as executor of my will, trustee
to her fortune, and guardian of my child.
So help me, God."

Mr. Grey repeated the words with
solemn deliberation.

"Kiss the Book."

Mr. Grey bent his head reverentially
over the sacred volume and kissed it
devoutly.

Kiss the Book, my child. Take it
in your own right hand and kiss it. It
is the history of the life and sufferings
and death of our Lord, and something
of great moment is conducting."

Kiss the Book, you also," looking
towards Mrs. Grant.

She did as he desired.

Now, my daughter, and you, Henry
Grey, both together hold that Book, which
is the history of the life and sufferings
and death of our Lord, to my lips, for I
am weak and unable, and I will kiss it
last of all."

They placed the Book against his lips,
and when he had kissed it they drew it
back, and placed the Testament on the
bed.

Mr. Grey folded his arms tightly across
his chest ; he had a feeling that his chest
would burst if lie did not shout out and
relieve it.

My daughter," said the sick man, "if
I should never get off this bed again — and
I feel that something great is conducting —
when I am dead you will look to him for
all advice and guidance. He will be your
friend, your only friend, who can be of
aid to you when I am dead. You will
lean upon him. He will guard your money
and see that no one does you ill or cheats
you. He is an honest man, Maud. He-has
taken care of your fortune for me
until now ; he will take care of it for you
when I am dead. You will have no one
else but him ; no friend in all the world
but Henry Grey."

"Oh, my God !" burst from the banker.
If the hangman were in the room, and
any word spoken by him, Grey, was to*
be the signal for his death, he could not
restrain himself.

For a moment they all three looked
at him in grave surprise. His words

were not perhaps improper to the grave
occasion, but his manner of uttering them
had something startling in it. There was
in his tone a cry of wild appeal against
an inexorable decree of prodigious woe.
His voice had more the sound of a
brute's inarticulate cry of despair than
any human agony fitted to human words.
It was a death-cry, the death-cry of some
fine instinct of the human soul. It was
a cry the like of which no man utters
twice in a lifetime.

The old man regarded the banker for a
moment with a look of surprise. Then the
expression of the old man's face softened,
and he said : " Grey, my arm is weak. I
cannot raise it. Take my hand. You
will be good to her when I am dead. I
know what the world may say. It may
say, Grey, that you and I are not
equals ; that I might have bestowed the
guardianship of my daughter's fortune

among houses such as the Fleurs' or the
Midharsts'. But I know what you are
and what your father was, and I am placing
what I value above all earthly things in
your keeping. I am an old man, and
the doctors may be right this time. I
.am old and weak, Henry Grey, and I
want you to be her friend when I am
dead. The world may say what it pleases
about you as guardian. I am firm in my
faith in you. No orphan, friendless — the
last, I may say, of her house — had ever
a more careful or prudent or wise guardian
than you. I am old and weak. There
is one more favour I would ask of you
before you go — for I have said all. You
will not refuse an old man on his deathbed,
Henry Grey ? "

No," in a faint thin whisper.

I am weak, and cannot do it myself.
Raise up my hand held in yours, and
place your hand against my lips, that I

may kiss the hand which is to shield my
daughter when I am gone."

Oh, Sir Alexander I " in a tone of
agonized protest.

I am very old and very weak. You
will not, because I am old and weak
and cannot raise your hand, deny me
this pleasure."

The banker did as he was asked.

When he had placed the cold thin
hand back again on the bed, the baronet
sighed and murmured : "I am tired.
I will try to sleep awhile. You may go,
Henry Grey. God bless you, Henry Grey !
Now I am at rest ! "

With a deep bow to the ladies, Mr.
Grey left the room. He went down a
passage and then turned into another.
Here he was alone, out of sight and
earshot. He threw his arms heavily up,
straight above his head, and flung himself
against the wall with a groan, beat his

arms and hands against the wall, and
struck his forehead against the wall.

Do I live ? ' : he cried ; " or am I
already among the damned ? M

END OF VOL. I.

CHARLES DICKENS ^lND EVANS, GREAT NEW STREET, Better Lapse, E.C

3 0112 042260577

■-.«xS^'';;";^vu,^.UiS^-;i^4e8^^

OF THE

U N 1 Verity

or Ill Noir

32 3

31 IHamancc.

BY

RICHARD DOWLING,

AUTHOR OF "the MTSTKRT OF Killed."

VOL. II.

LONDON :
TINSLEY BROTHERS, 8, CATHERINE ST., STRAND.

1880.
[sall rights reserved

CONTENTS.

part J.— a plain ffiolD ffliiarti— co>if>iM«t!.

CHAP.

XII. — THE SHADOW OF THE TOWER OF SILENCE
XIII. — ON BOARD THE STEAMSHIP Dwell .

XIV. — ON THE RIVER

XV. — THE FUTURE AS IT SEEMED

XVI. — THE PRESENT AS IT WAS

XVII. — THE ASCENT OF THE TOWER OF SILENCE

Xvii — ON THE TOP

PAGE









CHAP. PAGE

1. — A Strange, AT THE CASTLE 127

II. — THE READING OE THE WILL 148

Il — " COUSIN MAUD " — " KO ; MAUD " . . . . 173

IV. — THE TWO GUARDIANS 200

V. — THE INDEFINITE PRESENT 216

VI. — THE TYRANNICAL PAST 235

PART I. A PLAIN GOLD GUARD.

CHAPTER Nil

THE SHADOW OX THE TOWER OF SILENCE.

After giving way to the feelings which
had overwhelmed him in the passage, and
which had almost betrayed him at the
bedside, Grey, by a great effort, collected
himself and walked soberly and deliberately
until he found the grand staircase of the
Castle. This he descended, and when he
reached the bottom hastily sought the
court-yard, and from the court-yard the
grounds.

VOL. II. 1

I tliouo'ht it would have killed me in
that room. I wish it had," he whispered
to himself, as he passed aimlessly over the
short dry grass. " No, no, no, no, no ! I
must not think of it. I must think of
something else."

He was now beyond the range of the
Castle windows, in a little fern-clad hollow
above a miniature cove.

*^ Who said I was a coward ? " he
demanded, in a loud harsh voice, looking
fiercely round on the cool silver river that
lisped soft whispers at his feet and made
low melodious concord of its rippling surge,
filling the ear with memories of the far-off
sea.

"Who said I was a coward?" He
repeated the question to the grave oaks
standing above him, motionless and voiceless
against the opal ocean of the unclouded
sky.

No coward. I never quailed. I

never winced, I held up my head as
fearlessly as any undaunted soldier kneeling
upon his coffin facing the firing-party.
I was not afraid of anything. I only
thought I should die there and then, I
am sorry I did not die."

He seemed to imagine himself in a
dock, and the huge oaks the grave and
grey jury empanelled to try him, and the
sweet low voice of the river the indictment
that never ceased to sound.

I own I quailed when I heard his
first words from the threshold, but that
was when he accused me of what I have
done." He had once more dropped his
voice to a cautious whisper.

Who would not, being a thief, quake
at being called a thief for the first time
by the man he had stolen from, and in
the presence of her for whom the vast
savings of a lifetime had been laid by ?
No man could have helped quailing at

that. But when the old man showed his
confidence in me unbroken, when he swore
me to take care of her property and of his
child, when he kissed, Oh, God ! when lie
kissed my hand, did I quail ? No. I
stood it like a man. That was the vulgar
end of the coarse objective tragedy. That
was the poison-bowl, the dagger-thrust.
That was the breaking of the last bone
on the wheel. I am dead since then.
But that was only the bell for the curtain
to go up on the other tragedy, the subjective
play. I am enrolled among the-immortals.
I play the chief part in a
tragic farce by the Angel of Night. I
play the leading part. The stage is in
the nether depth. I play to an audience
of everlasting Outcasts. The audience
are assembled, the curtain is up. I
forget my cue, and the prompter
is asleep. Judas, I forgot my cue, and
the prompter is asleep. What am I

to say ? What am I to do, comrade
Judas ? "

Mr. G-rey, I have been looking for
yon, sir. You are wanted at the Castle,
please, sir."

Mr. Grey turned round and saw
just above him, on the edge of the
little hollow, Sir Alexander's old servant,
Michael.

Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, Michael, is it you ? "
Mr. Grey laughed and asked.

Yes, sir," answered Michael promptly,
as though he were accustomed to finding
his identity doubted.

I was rehearsing a part I am going
to take in an amateur play, Michael, just
to get the memory of poor Sir Alexander
eut of my mind. Well, am I wanted at
the Castle ? "

Yes, please, sir ; and you will please
to come at once. Mrs. Grant wants to
see you. The doctors have been, and I

am afraid there is bad news about Sir
Alexander."

I hope not, Michael. I shall run.
You can take your time."

And with these words the banker
started off at a quick pace.

He found Mrs. Grant sobbing violently
and for a while quite unable to command
her voice. At length, after a few reassuring
and encouraging words from the
banker, she spoke through her sobs.

Oh, Mr. Grey ! Oh, my poor darling
Maud ! Oh, Mr. Grey, what are we todo
? "

It will be kindest and wisest," said
he, in a conciliatory voice, " if we all
try to keep as calm as we can under
the circumstances. Michael told mc the
doctors had been here, and that the news
is bad ; but I do not know yet what the
news is."

Oh, my poor child ! Mr. Grey, you

can't tell how I feel. I, who have been
with her now more than six years, until
I have grown to look upon her as a
daughter. Oh, Mr. Grey, this is dreadful!"

There is nothing the matter with Miss
Midharst, I trust. She is quite well ? "

"Quite well."

In health, I mean ? "

Oh, yes. But think of her thrown
out of her father's place without a home
or a relative, and so young and so simple."

"But, Mrs. Grant, Miss Midharst is
enormously rich, and can make a most
handsome home anywhere she pleases."

But think of an upstart younger son
of a whole lot of no-good younger sons
turning my darling out into the cold,
bleak, cheerless world, turning her out of
the house of her forefathers, this grand
old place. I never knew how grand it
was or how I had grown to love it until
now."

The poor woman, in her great sympathy
for Maud, could not dissociate the ideas
of leaving the home-tree and j^OYert}^
When her husband died, and the instable
home-tree under which soldiers sling their
hammocks had to be abandoned, there
were narrow ways and the friendless world
that wait on narrow ways to be encountered
and endured. In her anxious sympathy
she thought the heiress of a rich
baronet would have the same hardship
and privation to encounter as the widow
of a penniless captain in a marching
regiment.

The banker placed his hand firmly,
though lightly, on the shoulder of Mrs.
Grant, and said, in an impressive voice :

We are all, I am sure, very sorry
Sir Alexander is so ill ; but we must not
add to our grief for him the fear that
Miss ^lidharst will be unprovided for.
There will be few richer heiresses, and

she and lier fortune shall be well taken
scare of. I wish you would be kind enough
to tell me what the doctors said about
sir Alexander."

Oh, Mr. Grey, I hope you will
excuse me. I am so fearfully troubled
and excited. I know what trouble
is myself. I have had my own sad
experience "

'rand the doctors said, Mrs. Grant?"
interrupted the banker gently.

Oh, Mr. Grey, I hope you will forgive
me. They are in the banqueting-room,
.and said they would be glad to see you
there."

'' Thank you ; I will go to them instantly.
Dear Mrs. Grant, do try and
keep up your spirits, for Miss Midharst's
sake."

With these words he left, and walked
quickly in the direction of the great
room.

As he did so, the river passenger steamboat
Rodivell went past on the outer or
northern side, in front of the great archway
leading to the court-yard of the Ishmd
Castle.

Mr Grey approached the dreary state
dining-room, and having entered found
the three doctors seated by the open
narrow windows, and looking out upon
the silent peaceful scene beneath. He
approached them quietly, gravely.

Dr. Hardy rose to receive him. The
doctor and the banker bowed to one
another ; then ]mr. Grey bowed to the
other two doctors, and they returned his
salutation with respectful inclinations of
the head and in silence.

The banker broke the silence :

"Mrs. Grant informs me that you
wish to see me, and I understand that
you desire to communicate something very
important concerning the health of Sir

Alexander. I trust nothing very serious
is to be told."

For a moment the three doctors stood
admiring Grey, and no one of them
answered him. There was such a soothing
and reassuring air of capable responsibility
about him at the instant, they could not
withhold their respect, and it was displayed
in silence.

At last Dr. Hardy found his voice :

'^ We are informed that you, Mr. Grey,
had an interview with Sir Alexander
Midharst this evening. Are we correctly
informed that during the interview Sir
Alexander's head was quite clear and his
mind c[uite free from delusion V

Quite clear and quite free from
delusion," answered the banker, as carefully
as though he were sworn, and the
life of a fellow-being hung on his words.

^^ In that interview did he seem to
apprehend any disastrous ending to his

illness?" asked Dr. Hardy, with weight
and impressiveness.

'' I cannot go so far as to say that,"
answered Grey, with the most circumstantial
conscientiousness ; '' but from the
nature of what occurred, I am convinced
he regarded what he said as of the very
highest importance."

*^ You are aware that he has made
his will ?"

I am."

'did wdiat occurred between you and
him this evening bear in any way upon
his will ? Observe, we do not want you
to trouble yourself with detail ; but what
we want to know is this : Are you satisfied
in your own mind that Sir Alexander has
arranged his worldly affairs as fully as
you, hoeing a man of the world, could
desire V^

Dr. Hardy jut this question with all the
gravity he could import into his manner.

Throughout the interview the banker
could in no way satisfy himself as to
what Dr. Hardy was driving at. He,
therefore, framed his answers so that they
might be the least discursive and most
easy of corroboration. But the present
question disturbed him greatly. Was all
that had hitherto been on this day but
the prelude to the springing of an awful
mine under his feet ? Did the three men
now in front know what he knew ? Were
they a kind of lay inquisition — a species
of infernal council of three — the advocate,,
judge, and jury destined to cause the lead
to overtake the gold ? But he had already
endured a worse ordeal that evening, and
he was not to be cowed by this. He
answered in the same self-collected tone
as before :

So far as I know of Sir Alexander's
affairs they are in perfect order ; and in
the interview which I had with him this

evening, I think I am justified in assuming
lie added by word of mouth, and in the
presence of Miss Midharst and Mrs. Grant,
such matters as may not be embodied in
his will, or such additions to what maybe
in his will as he desired to make."

The three doctors looked significantly
at one another, and Grey awaited with
perturbation of mind, although he preserved
an indifferent exterior, the next
move in this strangely shifting drama.

The doctors then nodded to one another
that they had agreed to some course understood
between them, and Dr. Hardy said,
in a tone of relief:

"You are fully in possession, we know,
of the business position of Sir Alexander's
affairs. The medical position is this : A
development of symptoms has occurred
since you saw the patient ; this mind
has sunk into complete darkness, from
which, in the natural course (^f the

disease, it never emerges between tins and
death "

This is most sad' interrupted Grey.

But'' said Dr. Hardy, taking note
of the interruption with the emphasis on
the conjunction, '^ an operation which
might accelerate death would in all likelihood
give the patient a few minutes of
consciousness to-night. If to-night passes
without the operation it would be useless
tomorrow. The question, then, is : Are
you of opinion there is any need to run
the risk of that operation in the hope
of getting some final instruction for the
disposal of the worldly affairs of Sir
Alexander Midharst?"

^' That is a very grave question
indeed."

A very grave question. Observe, it
consists of two parts. 1. The Inisiness
portion. 2. The medical portion. You are
not expected to answer both responsibly.

You are responsible for the business'
portion ; we for the medical. The portion
of the question you have to answer is
this : Do you know of any business reason
for restoring to consciousness at some risk
Sii' Alexander Midharstr'

I do not."

Then we may go. We can do na
more. Good evening, Mr. Grey ; you
have been most admirably careful and
conscientious in this matter."

The doctors bowed and withdrew.

Once more Grey found himself alone.
He could not remain in-doors. He felt
oppressed, suffocated. He hastened into
the courtyard. Having gained the grounds
he turned his face to the east, and walked
slowly onward with his hands clasped
behind him and his chin sunk upon his
breast.

How that brief interview with the
doctors had altered the whole aspect of

his affairs, he thought. In that terrible
scene at the bedside, he had sworn to take
charge of Miss Midharst's fortune ; a light
responsibility that was now. In that same
interview he had sworn to take care of
Miss Midharst ; a grave responsibility that
was now. And yet last night he had
been thinking of the most intimate and
responsible form of guardianship for her.
He had been thinking if he were a widower
he might marry Miss Midharst, and so
cover up the great scandal. If he married
her now, he should be in the best position
to keep his oath to the old man.

Last night he had been affrighted by
the notion of being left a widower, lest
it might enter Sir Alexander's mind a
second man should be associated with
him in the guardianship of a great
heiress.

All this had almost miraculously
changed to meet his position. The old

VOL. II. 2

man was likely to live some time, but
never again to possess his senses ; never
ixgain to have sufficient recollection to
make any change in that will in which
his, Grey's, fortune and fate were wholly
w^ouncl up. That was a tremendous relief.

He was becoming calmer. The memory
of that scene by the bedside was gradually
growing less troublesome, less insistent,
less oppressive. He breathed more freely
if it was for nothing else but the knowledge
the repetition of such a scene had
become impossible.

His thoughts ran on : .

Sir Alexander might live days, weeks,
months, and then after his death he,
Grey, would have a whole year. Yes, a
whole year! Of course he had no shadow
of hope of replacing the money; but
then, in, say a year and three or four
months, something might happen.

He might be free.

The burden might be lifted oft' his
shoulders and he might be free. Who
would say but —

He had turned round and was looking
west.

By Jove," he exclaimed, *' I have
missed the boat ! There she goes past
the tail of the Island."

The Rodivell had just got round the
end of the Island, and was steaming west
in the broad river, full in the light of
the setting sun.

The air was still. Now and then
the lonely notes of a lamenting thrush
enriched the silence. In the whole vast
arc of the heavens from the violet-purple
brooding east to the full crimson activity
of the splendid west, not a cloud broke
the chromatic scale. There was something
fierce and warlike and fine in the sun ;
something[ wasted and desolate and forlorn
in the deserted realms of the east. It

seemed as though the sun, that general
of Time, were celebrating in the west his
triumph over another day ; while the
eastern fields of the empyrean lay broken
in hope abandoned, fit region for the
reign of dusky night, for ghosts of noble
hopes, and flitting phantoms of human
joys. The northern plains of the heavens
were pale grey blue. To the south the
sky was green. Overhead a pulse of liquid
pink seemed breaking through the fair
soft blue, like the pink that steals into
a mother's blue eyes when she hears her
baby praised and stoops to kiss it, thinking
Their praises are sweet, but they are
only drops of sweetness falling into the
ocean of my love."

Although Grey knew there was no
chance of his overtaking the l)oat, he
now walked west, keeping on the high
ground of the island. He kissed the
Castle ; still the boat was in view. The

:sight of it distracted his thoughts, and
any distraction was better than the subject-matter
thrust upon his attention by his
mind.

From the tail of Warfinger Island to
the bend of the river which would completely
conceal the steamer was about two
miles. The sun now lay level with the
horizon. Against the blazing orb the boat
steamed on. The edge of the sun had
already touched the low horizon when
Grey paused at the top of the high
ground and looked west.

'' I shall drive from the Ferry to
SeaclifF. It is only six miles by the road,
and I can be there before the boat.

There go my wife and five thousand
pounds of — of the money I laid my
hands on in an accursed hour. How
strange it is that a few minutes ago when
I thought of my position I never thought
of that ! What a whimsical thing chance

is ! There are Miss Midharst's five thousand
pounds helping to carry my wife from
Daneford to Seacliff ; and here am I, who
owe a hundred times that sum, and with
no way out of the thing except I should
chance to be at liberty to marry within
a few months.

'' Ah, well, let me try and think of
something that's jdi'^^^^^^- Trying ta
square the circle is an elegant and harmless
and profitable way of spending one's time ;
it pays much better than trying to seethe
way out of my mess. Possibly in a
short time I may go mad. That would
be a capital way out of it, particularly
if my madness took the form of going
over that bedside scene for ever. Bah !
I am giddy already. I onus think of
something else. Let me get back. That
drive to Seacliff will freshen me. Anyway
I ought to be very well satisfied with
the substantial events of this evening."

He turned around and ]began slowly
retracing his steps. As he did so, lie
raised his eyes to the Castle.

Already the walls of the pile were
steeped in the shadows of night. But the
Witch's Tower — the Tower of Silence —
had just caught the fierce gleam of light
from the river.

He paused, looked up, and thought :

How simple the people were long
ago ! They had no idea of cause and
effect. They saw that this tower blazed
red after all the rest of the building was
laid in shadow. But the poor idiots never
thought of the light on the river. I can
hardly believe it. An evening like this,
when there wasn't a cloud in the heavens,
someone must have noticed that the light
on the tower first appeared when the sun
caught the river and remained steady until
the sun had gone altogether. It is incredible
that people were ever such fools."

He stopped.

I will wait until it fades," he thought,
by way of honouring his scorn for the jDast.

Presently and quickly the red glow
faded from the tower.

Now," he cried, " the sun is set, and
no witchcraft can rekindle that glow for

four-and-twenty What I The light

again ! Am I mad already ? "

Once more, beyond all doubt, the
blood-red glare burnt on the summit of
the Tower of Silence.

Grey turned quickly round, and looked
in surprise and horror west. He shaded
his eyes with his hands. He rushed
forward a few paces, shaded his eyes
again and looked. He swung himself
into the branches of a tree, climbed up,
and having reached the highest branches
that would sustain his weight, glared into
the west, into the track of crimson fire
that shot the red shaft at the Tower.

Then lie descended heavily, drowsily,
axis though half asleep.

When on the ground he threw himself
on his face, and muttered in a thick voice :

^'What is this? What is this? I
have not been thinking murder, have I ?
I have not been thinking wife-murder ?
Have I ? No, no, no. Grey ! Not so bad
was that."

Then a sudden change passed over him.
He became inspired with superhuman
energy and strength. He sprang to his
feet, and winding his arms wildly about
his head rushed towards the Castle,
shouting :

"Help! help!"

ON BOARD THE STEAMSHIP Dwell.

The passenger steamboat Rodwell left
Daneford on that evening of the 17th
of August, 1866, at the usual time, with
an average number of passengers for the
season and her ordinary crew. She was
a saloon boat, and licensed to can three
hundred and fifty passengers between
Daneford and Seacliff. As a matter of
fact she never, except on very rare
occasions, had more than half that number
on board. Her crew, all told, were fifteen ;
and on the evening of the 17th of August,
1866, she carried about one hundred nd
twenty passengers.

The saloon-deck was abaft the paddle-boxes,
and after - deck passengers had
access to the saloon and bridge as well
as the after deck ; the fore-deck passengers
were confined to the fore-deck and the
fore - cabin, the latter being a dull,
cheerless, dreary place, where no one
ever thought of going, unless in bad
weather.

Smoking was allowed on the foredeck
to the second-class passengers, but not in
the fore-cabin. On neither the saloon-deck,
nor in the saloon itself, was smoking
permitted ; but all smoking Daneford
declared that, in the whole world, there
could be found no place or circumstances
under which a cigar might be tasted with
such plenteous peace and enjoyment as
upon the bridge of the Roclwdlj while she
steamed down the broad placid Weeslade
of a fine summer's evening.

Although Daneford was not a straitlaced

city, there was a good deal of solid
propriety in the character of its people.
Judged by criminal statistics, it was rather
worse than the average city of its size ; but
if a little prodigal in its crimes, it was
discreet and prudent in its sins. If it
cheated, it cheated in a legitimate and
business-like manner. If it got drunk, it
did not brawl. Whatever wicked thing it
did, it kept under the rose. So that it
enjoyed the double advantage of being
highly estimated for its virtue, without
allowing itself the unpleasant deprivations
which the pursuit of virtue requires.

As regards smoking, Daneford observed
one rule in the year 1866, and of that
rule a single breach could not be proved
against a single resident of the city. The
rule was that no man should, while
walking' through the streets of Daneford
in company with a lady, give the deathblow
to chivalry and light a cigar.

The mere fact that on the bridge of
the Rodivell smoking was allowed secured
it against the remotest chance of female
incursion. The most respectable maiden
ladies, who had ceased to be giddy with
youth, made it a practice to look as little
as possible at that bridge, and, if they
could, to sit with their backs to it.

Just forward of the Indulge, on the
main deck, were the steward's pantry and
the cook's galley. The passage between
the forward house on deck and the
paddle-boxes being very narrow, the view
from the fore to the after deck was so
much interrupted as practically to be cutoff.


Under the bridge, amidships, were
the engines ; aft of the engines, the
engine-room and stoke-hole, all in one ;
and farther aft still, the furnaces and
boilers.

All first-class lady' passengers, whether

escorted by men or alone, confined themselves
to the after-deck and the saloon.

The defect which had been discovered
in the boiler had not become a matter of
general knowledge. No one in either
Daneford or SeaclifF knew anything about
it, except a few persons connected with
the steamer and the company's office.

There was no railway from the city to
the little town, but an omnibus and a
coach went daily in and out, the distance
between the two places being, by road,
not half the distance by water.

The road was no longer a rival of the
river as a highway between the two places ;
but if public faith got cool in the river-way,
people might fall back upon the road,
which of old had enjoyed the monopoly.
Nothing could more effectually shake public
faith in the water-way than a suspicion
that weakness or defect existed in the
steamer. Therefore the fact that the

boilers of the Rodwell exhibited unfavourable
symptoms had been kept a
profound secret, and on the 17th of
August no passenger on board the boat
had the shadow of a suspicion anything
was wrong.

Steadily the steamboat held her course
down the Weeslade that lovely August
evening.

A man with a fiddle at the bow struck
up a lively air, and in a few minutes some
of the younger and gayer of the forward
passengers stood up and began to dance.

The men smoking on the bridge drew
near the rail, and looked down with smiles
of quiet cordiality upon the dancers.

Then a man with a large white hat,
blackened face, huge white shirt-collar,
blue-and-white calico coat, red waistcoat,
and check-linen trousers approached the
fiddler ; and having whispered to the
fiddler, the latter brought the dance-music

to a stop, and the nigger minstrel stepped
out into the open space just quitted by
the dancers, and sang a pathetic song.

This Avon great applause, and caused
some of the women to weep.

Then the fiddler changed the tune into
one of sly and artful purport ; and the
nigger, assuming an attitude and a manner
of audacious drollery, sang a song of such
comical force that all the forward passengers
greeted the end of each verse with roars of
laughter, forgetting, in their own enjoyment,
to applaud the singer : a form of
commendation doing much more homage
to the j)Gi'former than all the cool and
calculating approval that accepts and
adopts the dry formula of hand smiting
hand as a mark of satisfaction. So
successful was this sonfj; that some of

"o

the critical loungers on the bridge turned
to others and said, "Not half so badin
a tone indicating the possession

of responsible critical discernment and
chivalric honour in the interests of truth.

Among the men on the bridge was a
merchant of Daneford accompanied by a
nephew, a young lad from the country
who had come on a first visit to the
city ; to him the merchant was indicating
the various objects of interest they passed
on the way down.

"This," said the merchant, pointing,
is the Founder. Although it is called
the Founder, it is in reality, as you see,
a dockyard fer building iron steamers.
The last one launched was 2,500 tons
register.

That is the Cove, and there bathing
is allowed all day long. The water is not
clear, and the bottom is very muddy ; butin
the hot weather city-folk of the lower
order are not nice in such matters. We
haven't any clear streams or mill-ponds
such as you have in the country.

VOL. II. 3

That is the Glasshouse over there,
and this part of the river is called Glas-house
Each.

"Farther down you see a windmill
on a headland; that headland is called
Windmill Head, and that large white
house in the glen there is Windmill
Hall, the residence of Colonel Wood
Maitland, who distinguished himself in
the Crimean War. A Cossack thrust at
Maitland's colonel, who was wounded and
propped up against a dead troopers
dead horse. Captain Wood Maitland (he
was only a captain then) lifted the
Cossack's lance with an uj)-cut. The
Cossack wheeled, thrust at the captain ;
the lance caught the captain in the left
forearm, and the shaft being wounded by
the up sword cut, broke off two feet from
the head, and stuck in the captain's
forearm. The captain was borne down.
The Cossack wheeled again and drew.

Captain Maitland had lost his sword in
the fall. The Cossack rode up, brandishing
his sword and making again for the
wounded colonel, who lay helpless against
the belly of the dead horse. Captain
Maitland was now unarmed and wounded.
A few paces in advance of the captain
was a large fragment of a shell ; he rose,
picked this up, and, at the moment the
Cossack was within a few yards of the
wounded colonel, threw the piece of the
shell with all his force, and struck the
horse on the head, causing the horse to
swerve and the rider to lose his cut. As
the Cossack swept by Captain Maitland
pulled the lance-head out of his left forearm,
and thrust it through the bowels of
the Cossack, who rode on a little and
then tumbled out of his saddle. But
that was only one of a dozen or more
brave things Maitland did.

That snug little cottage under the

slope on the other shore is where Samuel
Shall, the richest merchant in Daneforcl,
lives. He is a Quaker, and many men of
five hundred a year have finer houses.
But this one is the most beautifully kept
in the neighbourhood.

If you look right ahead now you will
see the Island. Its name is Warfinger.
On the top of the hill in the Island is
the Castle. Sir Alexander Midharst lives
there. He has a fine property, worth
more than twenty thousand a year; but
he is a miser, and saves up nineteen out
of every twenty j)oiinds of his income.

Wat Grey, the banker, a very rich
man too, takes care of all Sir Alexander's
money. The Castle is old, as you see,
and has a deserted, lonely look.

Wat Grey lives at the Manor, in
the Manor House, another cj^ueer house,
and he has called the two houses the
Weird Sisters. You see that round tower.

Now you can see it better as we come
in front of the archway to the Castle-yard,
the western tower. Well, they used
to say it was haunted by the ghost of
one of the wives of the family which
owned it before the Midharsts came into
the property. There's a tower on the
Manor also, and no doubt you have heard
or read of places in the East — China, I
think, or maybe Rangoon — where they
put their dead on the top of towers, called
the Towers of Silence. The carrion birds
sat off the flesh, and the bones fall through
a grating. Well, Wat Grey calls these
.two towers the Towers of Silence.

That level plain of grass-land between
the river and these hills is called the
Plain of Spears. A great number of
-spear-heads have been found there from
time to time, and until quite lately it
was supposed a battle must have been
fought there. But although bones of

COWS and sheep have been discovered, no*
human bones ever turn up, and no one
has been able to account for the spear-heads.
You shall see many of those
spear-heads in the rooms of the Weeslade
Scientific Institute tomorrow.

*ein that little creek there, Glastonbury
Cove, three boys were drowned last year.
A boat capsized in a squall of wind, and
none of the three boys could swim ; so
they were all drowned.

That large yellow house at the top
of the dip of land is the Hon. Skeldemere
Seashore's. He is the brother of an earl,
and a violent Radical. He has a large
property hereabouts, and farms two thousand
acres himself.

"The sun is getting down now.
Twilight is the pleasantness time on the
river at this season. Now, if you look
back, you will see as pretty a view as
there is on the whole of the Weeslade,.

Don't the pasture and park lands look
well with the hills behind them, and dead
astern, in the throat of the river, Warfinger
Island with its hill, and on the top of the
hill the old Castle standing out sharp
against the sky, with the Tower of Silence
ho-hest of all ?

By-the-way, in a moment you will
see why people got a superstitious feeling
about that tower. Eight in our wake is
the Castle, and we are steering right into
the sun. We could not be better placed
to see the witch's fire dance on the tower.
The sun is just dipping. Now watch the
tower. There ! Did you see that ? That
flash on the top of the tower ? That's
Avhat the people call the witch's fire.
There it is again, now. I never saw it
brighter — never. Look again. The boat
is right in the track of the sun, and the
wash of the paddles makes the light flicker.
I never saw "

At that instant he ceased to speak —
for ever. An iron bar struck him at the
throat, severing the head from the body,
and killing also a man who stood behind
him.

The after end of the bridge was flung
upward, and all upon it, the living and
the dead, were shot down upon the foredeck.


Coal and planks and wreck of the
saloon, and bodies of those who had been
on the after-deck and in the saloon, toiled
upward a moment in a dense cloud of
steam and water, hung a moment suspended
in air, while a dull groaning sound
spread abroad from the steamer. Then
all descended again, falling upon the
ruined boat, upon the placid water, with
thud and hiss and shriek.

For a second all was still.

Then a dull groan from those forward.
Then screams and yells when it was plain

the shell of the boat could not float more
than a few seconds.

About fifty people were still alive.

The wreck made a drive astern. The
water washed over the fore-deck, and,
striking the forward bulwark, laid the
steamer on an even keel for a breath's
space.

Then the water rushed aft once more,
.and in a stern-board the stern went
under water, the boat fell over to starboard,
swung half-way back again, and
then heeled steadily over and went down.

The boiler of the Rodwell had burst,
and the steamer Rodwell had gone down
before any one who still survived had had
time to jump overboard.

ON THE Ever.

Still calling out for help, Grey reached
the Castle. When he got in front of the
chief gateway he paused a moment, and
pressed his hand over his forehead, trying
to collect his thoughts.

The Rodivell had blown ups. Yes, that
was clear. And all the people who had
not been killed or drowned were now
struggling in the water, and his wife had
been aboard.

No good purpose could be served by
alarming the people at the Castle. They
could render no assistance, and they ha
trouble enough there just now. The best

thing to do was to clash across the Island,
tell the ferryman to hasten to the scene
of the wreck (he could not have seen the
steamer from the northern shore of the
Island), jump into a boat, and pull rapidly
towards the fatal spot.

Grey crossed the Island at the top of
his speed ; paused a moment to recover
his breath ; then shouted to the ferryman
the news of the disaster, and, bidding
him row with all his might to the place,
jumped into another boat himself and
pulled rapidly down the river.

Under the circumstances nothing could
have been better for him than the exertion
necessary for driving the boat forward.

He was a powerful man and a skilful
oarsman. He bent forward and flung
himself back with swift and weighty
regularity, that made the boat fly. He
deliberately kept his mind free from
thought. He concentrated all his attention

upon the physical work. When a
young man he had often pulled in local
amateur races, but never before with such
strictly undivided attention.

Get all way on the boat ! Make her
go through the water ! " were the thoughts
that filled his mind. Gradually as he
warmed to his work he felt his power
increase. He felt conscious of great skill
and enormous strength.

As he drove onward muscle after
muscle of his body seemed to come into
sympathy with those in his legs and back
and arms, to increase his force. While
the muscles came into play their action
stole the sluggish l)lood from his head,
sent up his pulse, cooled his forehead,
and cleared his mind.

There is no use in thinking now.
No use in my thinking until I am there
and know all. Nov I have only to
make this boat fly."

As he swung himself backward and
forward, and plucked the blades through
the hissing water, he felt all things
possible to man where possible to him
then.

I could crush this wherry flat in my
arms, or command a burning ship, or lead
a forlorn hope to certain victory at this
moment," he thought. " But I must be
careful not to break an oar. To break
an oar now would be fatal. How they
bend ! They are the twisted ropes of the
catapult, and the wherry is the bolt, and
we are going almost as fast as a flying
bolt.

"That's the tail of the Island at last.
There is no use in my looking round ; it
might disturb me. All I have to think
of now is, Eyes in boat, a clean Awake, and
give way with a will.

Half ebb, by the marks. Give her a
sheer out into mid-stream, and get the

crawl of the ebb under her. It's only a
crawl compared to what we're doing,
although it's a five-knot ebb."

He was out of training, and his mouth
became dry, his tongue searched, and his
breathing short ; his muscles, under the
unaccustomed strain, tingled and grew
heated, and his joints fiery hot. But he
felt all the better pleased for this. He
took a fierce delight in squandering the
magnificent resources of his strength.

"My will," he thought, "is stronger
than my body and my arms and my legs,
and if they fancy they are to get the
better of my will I'll show them their
mistake. On you go ! ay, faster." And
he tore the blades hissing from the water,
and feathered, and switched the blades
into the water without a sound or a
splash.

Already," he continued, " the Island
dead astern. The Black Rock and the

Witches' Tower, my Tower of Silence, ina
line, and I out in mid-stream. This
means I am near."

Where are you going ? Eh ? Where
are you going with that wherry ? " Grey
was hailed from ahead.

Backing water with his right hand and
pulling with his left he swung the boat
round, bringing her gunwale under.

He had almost run into a four-oared
river fishing-boat that had a variety of
floating objects in tow, and a few small
things in the boat. Four or five other
boats were pulling slowly hither and
thither, with a man standing up in the
bow of each.

When Grey ceased to pull it was
growing dusk. For a moment he sat
with his oars peaked, staring around him.
Then he tried to speak, but when he
opened his mouth his tongue rattled like
a bone against his teeth, and his throat

felt dusty dry. Notwithstanding that the
water here was strong and brackish he
leaned out of the boat, and filled his right
hand and drank. Then his tongue became
flexible again, and although his voice was
hoarse and ragged, he could speak.

You were here soon after it happened ;
how long' is it now *? "

Notwithstanding the gloom the men in
the fishing-boat recognised him, and their
manner turned to civility at once.

'^ Close upon an hour ago, sir. I did
not know your back, Mr. Grey; and you
were running right into us, and with
such way on too."

One, two, three, four, five, six,"
counts Grey. " Six boats ? "

"Yes, sir, six boats. It's the fullest
thing ever happened on the river in my
time ; and I'm on the AVeeslade, man
and boy, upwards of forty year."

"An hour ago. I did not think it

was so long. I came as quickly as I
could."

I saw you pull a punt-race twenty-five
years ago, sir, and you'd have beaten
your pulling in the punt then by your
pulling in the wherry this evening. Ay,
sir, you'd have pulled that wherry round
the punt." * .

How many were saved ? "

About forty."

Were they landed at one or both
sides of the river ? "

They were all landed at Atherton's
Quay over there."

"Do you know — did you see any of
the saved ? "

Most of them. I helped to bring in
some thirteen."

There is, if it is an hour since she
blew up, no chance of any more being
alive in the water, even clinging on to

anything."

VOL. II. 4

"No, Mr. Grey."

"Do you know '^ His tongue was

dry again, and he dipped his hand into
the brackish water and drank out of his
palm.

The fisherman shuddered at this. " It's
brackish at best," thought the man; "but
after what has happened — ugh! He must
be drunk or queer in his head."

Grey drew in both oars before completing
the question, " Do you know —
Mrs. Grey — my wife ? "

"Yes, sir, I know her well. I often
sold her salmon, and saw her with you
on the Rodwell. I humbly hope, sir, she
wasn't aboard this evening ? "

"You did not see her among the
saved ? "

"Mr. Grey, I may be mistaken "

"Answer me, man, or " He suddenly

Sprang up in the boat, and, whirling an
oar in this hands, threatened the fisherman

in the other boat. " Answer, man, or I'll
brain you, d'ye hear? And if you tell
me a lie I'll come back and brain you
where I find it out. Is my wife saved?"

I did not see her," answered the
man, shoving ofi" the wherry.

But Grey hooked the fishing-boat to
the wherry with his foot, and, brandishing
the oar aloft, whirled it over the head of
the cowering man, and shouted out in a
voice that crossed the waters and crept
up the hushed shores : " Damn you, man,
don't you see I mean to brain you if
you won't speak ? "

She was not saved. No one on the
after-deck or in the saloon was saved.
It was the boilers blew up, and all aft
were killed or drowned."

Grey unhooked his foot from the fishing-boat,
and with his foot pushed off" from
her. Then throwing down the oar in
the boat, he folded his arms tightly across

LIBRARY
"' UNIVERSITY OF Illinois

his chest, and, still standing, drifted down
the river, his large figure standing out
in black against the fading purple of the
west, his face turned towards the blackening
east.

Only that he lost his reason with
his wife," said the fisherman, '^ I'd take
the law of him."

'ray," answered another man in the
boat, " it's an excuse for a man to do
any wild thing to lose his wife like
this."

They had drifted a bit, and were now
pulling back towards the s23ot where they
had first hailed Grey.

He's standing up still in that Wherry.
With a big man like him standing up
in a cockleshell of a craft like that, the
swell of a steamboat wouldn't think much
of twisting her from under his feet," said
the first speaker.

"And maybe he wouldn't much mind

if it did, poor gentleman," in kindly
tone, said the man whom Grey had
threatened.

The wherry drifted on, but for a time
Grey never altered his position. He was
without his coat, without his hat ; his
white sleeves were rolled up above the
elbows, and his powerful arms tightened
across his wide chest. Gradually the boat,
as it drifted, swung round, and brought
his face to the fading east.

There was not a ripple on the river,
not a murmur in the trees ; a faint thin
rustle of the water where it touched the
shore was the only sound. Night was
coming, with its healing dew and spacious
silence for universal sleep.

Upright he stood still. The boat began
to swing round once more. He did not
move. Ao-ain his face was towards the
darkening east.

At length the wherry gave a sudden

lurch ; it had encountered something, and
had almost capsized.

He instinctively brought the boat on
an even keel by throwing the weight of
his whole body on the rising side. In a
few moments the boat was still as of old.
With a sudden shake and shudder he
came back to a consciousness of where
he was.

That is the red No. 4 Buoy I ran
foul of ; it nearly capsized me," he
thought.

Then shading his eyes with his open,
right hand, he stared back into the eastern,
gloom long and fixedly.

My wife and the Rod well are both
gone," he whispered. " Bee and my five
thousand. My wife and my five thousand
pounds are gone. She brought me about
five thousand when she came to me, long
ago. It was to have gone to her children,
if she had any, and away from me if she

had none. Now lie is gone, and that
five thousand and another five : and I am
saved I Saved !

'' Saved ! "

He sat down in the boat, and, keeping
his legs wide apart, rested his elbows on
his knees and his head on his hands.
His shirt-collar was open, and yet he felt
his throat tighten, and put his hand to it.
AVhen he found it free he muttered :

"It is only the hangman untying the
knot ; for in spirit I was a murderer.
And yet I remember the day I saw her
first. I can tell you all about the day I
told her I loved her. I could show you
the way she looked ; pretty, and with
her head this way. Then I knew she
was mine. She was small, Bee was
small ; and I lifted her up and kissed
her — not often, but once ; once, and I
felt weak for joy at that kiss ; and something
happened in my head or heart, and

I saw all my life before me, and felt her
always on my arm. And after that I
was calm. It seemed we had known
one another always, and had been married
years.

'sand I remember the first thing I
said after that was not anything wild
or romantic ; it was :

' In the back of the Bank-house there
is a bay-window like this, but there are
creepers on it.' And she asked me what
kind the creepers were ; and I laughed
and said I did not know. 'But,' I said,
a kind of foolish pun, ' my Bee shall
come and tell me, won't she ? ' And Bee
said, ' Maybe so.'

'' And I remember when I bought the
engaged ring, and how she kissed me then
the first time of her own accord.

"And I remember how when we were
married first she clung to me, and seemed
to orudo'e lier eves for anything: but me.

And I remember how I used to walk
around lier and aloout her through the
streets, if anything seemed to threaten
her with disturbance — a dog, or a draught,
or a cab, or a "

He suddenly threw up his face to
the deep purple sky, and cried out, ina
hoarse whisper :

"And to-night, by God, I am not
man enough to weep that she is dead !
I am not man enough to wish her back

again !

He looked around the water, as
though he expected to see some form of
temporal or eternal vengeance approaching
him.

As his eyes fell upon the water, something
came very slowly floating towards
him. Something which was almost wholly
submerged, and, owing to that fact,
drifted more quickly than the boat. As
the thing drew nearer it gradually settled

down in the Water, and, before he could
touch it, sank.

"It looked like a cloak," he whispered.
What have I been doing here ? I must

get ashore, and see if the " He could not

bring himself to say '' body," and without
thought sat down, and began rowing-rapidly
towards Asherton's Quay.

THE Future AS IT SEEMED.

When Grey's Ijoat came alongside the
little quay lie jumped out, and went hastily
to a crowd of people assembled round the
bodies and wreckage landed already.

His manner was highly excited, and
the questions put by him came in such
an incoherent torrent the people did not
know where to begin the answers.

Some of the survivors, some of those
who had been on the fore-deck, stood
near : these he asked if they knew Mrs.
Grey.

Yes, some of them knew Mrs. Grey.

Had they seen her either before or

after the boat went down ^ Did they see
her go aboard ? She was to have been
on board, and he was to have gone too,
but he had l:)een called away. Then he
vas to have joined the steamer off the
Island ; but she slipped him by, and he
was not able to go on board. Could it
be possible no one had seen his wife,
Mrs. Grey ? Could no one give him any
tale or tidings of his wife ?

No. No one could tell him anything
-about her. No one had seen her; but
then that was not to be wondered at, for
^11 the people who survived had been on
the fore-deck, and from the fore-deck it
was impossible, or nearly impossible, to
see the people on the after-deck.

But surely some of those who had
been saved knew whether his wife had
or had not gone on board at Daneford ?
That was simple enough.

They could not say ; they only knew

they had neither seen her nor heard of
her that evening on the . RodiveU, or in
connection with the Rodivelh

Among that sad group on the shore.
Grey was the first who came enquiring
for friend or relative, and those dio
knew him pitied him with all their hearts ;
for they recollected his marriage had been
the result of a love-match, and that he
was reputed to be the kindest, most
generous, and most loyal husband in the
city. His constant good-humour and
kindly actions, his generosity, and his
great importance and usefulness to the
people of Daneford, added in no slight
way to increase the sympathy and respect
of those who stood on the little quay that
night and heard his excited questions,
and answered him back gently and with
tears in their hearts.

For his own part he had not yet been
able to bring the results of the disaster

sharply before his mind. The fact that
the disaster had occurred was never clearly
with his apprehension. As soon as he
removed his eyes from the salvage and
the dead, and looked out upon the broad
peaceful river, it seemed impossible that
at the very spot he had recently rowed
over scores of people lay dead, and among
the dead his wife.

The news of the catastrophe spread
quickly, and gradually the crowd gathered
and swelled. From the neighbourhood,
some who had friends in the unlucky boat
came, and found their friends alive in
houses around the landing-place. Others
found friends or relatives beneath the cloths
which had been spread over the dead.
Others were in a condition similar to
Grey : could find no trace of those whom
they supposed to be in the boat at the
time she blew up.

Among' the last-named searchers was

a man wIlo lived on the banks of the
river, and lead heard the explosion and
hastened to the spot. He had reason to
fear his only son had been in the boat,
but he could not to be certain, as the
young man lived at Daneford, and often,
though not invariably, took the boat on
a Friday evening. The father was distracted,
and at last came to Grey, whom
he knew slightly, and, under the impression
that the banker had been a passenger,
asked for tidings of his son.

After a few half-incoherent replies from
Grey, the father gathered the facts of the
latter's case, and found they were both
circumstanced in the same way. For a
moment the old man felt utterly helpless
and desperate. Then his mind seemed
to clear up suddenly, and, turning to
Grey, he said :

Neither of us is sure he is a
sufferer by this awful calamity, nor can

wc bo certain as long as wc stay here
unless oiir worst fears come true." He
pointed to the river and shuddered. " They
have already begun dragging, but it will
be days before all are found, if all are
ever found. Each of us may hope still.
Suppose, instead of this sickening waiting
here, we drive back to the city ? There
we may find those whom we fear to
find here. Is not that better than watching
each boat, and bending over each poor
body that is landed ? "

"You are right I" cried Grey eagerly,
all his faculties suddenly starting into life,
and his mind for the first time seizing
upon the idea of getting certain knowledge
speedily. The torpor which had
fallen upon his intellectual faculties at the
moment of the explosion left him, and he
not only warmly seconded the old man's
plan, but before the other could speak,
had secured and was seated in one of the

many flys which had already begun to
arrive with helpers and friends at the
scene of the wreck.

In a few seconds the fly was spinning
along in the direction of Daneford. Both
the men in the vehicle were too much
occupied with their own concerns for
conversation. Grey's thoughts ran on :

She is dead. Beyond all doubt she
is dead. Poor Bee ! poor Bee ! I wonder
did she think of me with her last thought,
I wonder was she glad or sorry to go.
And now that she is gone, my poor Bee,
I don't know how I feel.

Poor Bee, I shall miss her. I have
been unkind and unjust to her. I have
treated her cruelly, cruelly. My being
unkind and scornful to her did no one
any good. It hurt her, and it hurt me.
Poor thing !

The house will be strange now. The
rooms where she has been will feel so

VOL. IT. 5

quiet, so useless. What is a house for
but a woman ? A man does not want a
house of many rooms. Least of all does
he want a house of many rooms haunted
by a memory. A man wants only two
rooms, one to eat in and one to sleep in.
When a childless man's wife dies he ought
to give up housekeeping. What is the
use of hollow rooms all round a man's
head ? They are only chilling storehouses
of recollection."

Here his mind halted a long time.
When he resumed at the point where he
had left off, he added but one more
thought :

I'll sell the Manor."

He paused much longer, said to himself,
as though he were familiarising himself
with the whole situation by repeating the
words forming the key to it :

I'll sell the Manor."

After going over the words so often

that they began to lose their meaning, he
started suddenly :

No. I cannot sell the Manor. I
cannot sell the Manor House. A man in
my position must have a house. A man
in my position

My position ! My position ! My
position !

Curse it, why can't I keep my head
clear ? I am not going mad, I should
hope. What an amusing maniac I should
make just now ! The people would gather
from all sides to hear honest Wat raving
about stealing the property of the baronet.
It would be town talk. Never was mad-mad
so mad, they would say. But let
me get on

Of course a man in my position
ought to have a house. I must have
a place to see my friends in. I must
entertain a little and "

His thoughts paused again a while,

and then lie abandoned thinking on the
line he had been following with the mental
exclamation : " No, no ! I must not think
of that now. I must not think of that — ■
over the open grave of poor Bee !"

He shook himself and endeavoured to
^x his mind on matters of the hour, and
to keep it free of the future :

How the purely business aspect of
things has altered within these awful
twenty-four hours ! Sir Alexander has
become powerless to alter that will, and
still lives. The longer he lives now, the
better for me. While he retained his faculties
there was always great danger he
might make some change. Now there is
no longer any fear of that.

'' What a terrible scene that was at the
bedside ! If I had known anything of
the kind was about to occur, I don't
think I should have had the courage to
face it. I fear I would have gone the

fatal length before I would have knowingly
encountered it. It was so awful
to hold her hand and swear such things
in the face of the facts. But it is all
-over, and I am well out of it. Perhaps,
after all, it is better the scene should
have taken place.

'* I suppose I shall be much at the
castle now. In fact, I don't know who is
to give any orders now if I do not. It
will be all thrown on me, I can plainly
see that. Often at the Castle means meeting
her often, and meeting her often means
that we shall be good friends.

How long did we stand hand-in-hand
this evening ? Not long. I did not
note her beauty then, but now I can
X3all back the face and change the surroundings


No, no ! I must not sell the Manor.
A man in my position must have a house
for — I may marry again."

He set his teeth and clenched his-hands,
and drove the nails of his fingers
into his palms. Then he faced the position
resolutely :

^'A while ago I shirked looking into
the future across an open grave. But my
own grave is open too. Can I fill it up?
I think I can. Self-preservation is the
first law. I cannot get back my five
thousand pounds from the Rodwell. I
cannot get back my ife from the Wees-
lade : can I get back my life ? That is
the question of questions, and it is idle
out of feeble sentimentalism to defer
looking at such grave business in a
straightforward and candid way.

I must marry, and I must marry
this girl. Nothing else can save me, and
I think nothing can prevent my doing it.
I hold the winning cards in my hand at
last, and I mean to win."

The old gentleman here broke in upon

the banker's reverie with : *' We are passing
your house, Mr. Grey."

Ah, so we are ; thank you. Drop me
here ; I'll walk up, and you take the fly
on. I hope you will find your son all
safe."

God grant it ! I hope you will find
your wife at the house."

'^ Thank you ; good night."

'' Good-night."

Grey turned into the Park, and walked
slowly in the direction of his house.

Twice he paused and faced round, as
though the place were new to him, and
he wished to fix indelibly on his memory
what could be seen in the dim light.
Or was it that he now looked at the
Park in a new aspect, from a new standpoint?
Or was it that he wanted to gain
time and composure before reaching the
house ? He could not have told himself
why he stopped, in fact he was perfectly

unconscious of having ceased to move
forward ; and although his eyes passed
deliberately from tree to tree, and seemed
to be dissatisfied with the want of lio;ht,
he was not aware his thought was occupied
with the scene. The j)^^se in
his walk indicated merely a pause in his
thought. While he moved towards the
house he had but one idea.

^' I must marry, and I must marry
this girl. Nothing else can save me."

"With this thought beating through his
brain he shook himself, straightened his
figure, and collected his faculties for
meeting the servants and formally ascertaining'
his wife had left the house and
taken passage in the ill-fated Rodwell.

With a steady stride, and head erect,
he walked up to the front door and into
the hall.

He looked round hastily, and then
asked :

James, where is your mistress 1 "

The man blinked in surprise at seeing
his master and being asked such a question.
Mrs. Grey had told the servants that
morning she and Mr. Grey were going to
SeaclifF that evening, and now here was
his master come back alone, and asking
in a startling manner where the mistress
was. He had better be guarded in his
reply. " I don't know, sir," was his
answer.

Is she in the house, James ? "

No, sir."

Are you quite sure ? "

Quite sure."

'when did she go out?"

I did not see her go out, sir ; but
-at luncheon she said she was going out,
and I have not seen her since."

Did she say where she was
going ? "

"Yes, sir. She said if anyone called

I was to tell them she had gone to Seacliff
with you this evening."

'^ Are you quite sure of all this ? "

'' Quite sure, sir. The cook was in the
dining-room at the time, and heard the
mistress tell me. Mistress had the cook
up to give her orders about tomorrow."

James, you will never see your poor
mistress again. The Rodwell blew up,
and she was not among the saved."

"Good God!" exclaimed the old soldier,
starting back and involuntarily bringing
his hand to his forehead, as though he
found himself thrust into the presence of
the general of the enemy. He fell back
two paces, and, dropping his hand to his
mouth, uttered a sob. " Good God ! "
exclaimed the near-sighted servant, whose
heart was full of dumb gratitude and
desolate sense of loss. " The last words
she said to me were, 'Thank you for the
flowers, James ; I know it was you put

them fresh in the vases. Thank you,
James That's what she said to me as
she went down the passage to her own
room. When she was in the passage she
turned back, and said so that I shouldn't
forget it, ' Thank you, James ; and recollect
if anyone calls I'll be back tomorrow.'
And now to think that she is dead!" He
had forgotten the presence of his master,
who stood irresolute a moment, and then
w^itli a heavy sigh walked into the inner
hall and disappeared up the gloomy unlit
staircase.

Neither master nor mistress having
been expected home, there was no light
in any of the rooms or passages on the
first floor. AVith heavy slow step Mr.
Grey proceeded to his own bedroom and
lit the gas.

How cold and dreary and desolate it
looked !

He poured out some water and bathed

Ills face. This revived and invigorated
him. Then he rang the bell. The
chambermaid answered it.

Jane, I suppose you have heard the
awful news from James ? "

*eyes, sir." The girl burst out crying.

"Do you know the exact time at
which your poor mistress left the house
for the boat ? "

^'No, sir. None of us saw her go;
but none of us were in the front of the
house after luncheon. We dined at three,
just after the mistress had her luncheon ;
and we all think she must have gone out
while we were sitting down."

That will do, Jane, thank you."

"Thank you, sir; and if you please,
sir, we're all very sorry for her and for
you," crying. " She was a good kind
mistress, and never took any of us up
short, or refused us anything in reason."

She was a o;ood kind mistress, Jane.

I am very much obliged to you and to
them. Tell all of them below that."

The girl withdrew, weeping bitterly.

Once more he was alone.

Until now there had lingered in his
mind a haunting doubt. He could not
believe the evidence before him. Now all
was simple and intelligible.

He commenced to pace the room. At
first his step was firm and slow. He was
weighing mighty thoughts.

Gradually the past seemed to fall from
him like a cope of lead. He folded his
arms on his breast. He threw up his
head into the air, as in fancy he stepped
across the threshold of his new life. The
colour came into his cheeks and the sparkle
into his eye. He strode beneath triumphal
arches, and heard the shouts of surging
multitudes in his ears.

Yes, the past was now vanished into
the darkness, which need never again be

explored, be visited, be contemplated.
Let the past busy its dead. Let liii
look at the future.

It was brighter now than ever. The
position of the Bank was secure above all
chances of assault. He should marry that
girl, and by that marriage cover up forever
the crime he had committed. The
reputation of her fortune would enormously
increase the security and business of the
Bank.

Then — long deferred ambition — then he
might enter Parliament. The best society
would gradually open to him. He should
be successful in the House ; he should
possibly rise to place ; if this happened,
considering he should have the reputation
of great wealth, and for a wife the
beautiful daughter of a baronet, of a
race that went back to the Conquest,
what more possible than that there
should in a few years, in Debrett,

be the name of Sir Henry Walter Grey,
Bart. ?

The prospect was not unreasonable.
What intoxicating probabilities were these !

He would like a little brandy now.
He did not care to go downstairs for it,
or to ring; aQ-ain. There was some, no
doubt, in the tower cupboard. Yes, that
would do. Here was the key in his
docket.

With a radiant face and an elastic
step he left the room, carrying a lighted
candle in his hand.

He stalked back in a few minutes,
holding the candle out at arm's length
before him.

The other key is at the other side of
the door. The door is locked on the
inner side, and my wife is there ! "

THE PRESENT AS IT WAS.

He put the candle on the dressing-tables
and sat down in front of the glass. He
placed one elbow on the table, bent this
head low, and catching his hair, softly
rested his head on the ball of his hand.

His brows were knit. His eyes, benton
the toilet-cover, were vacant, rayless ;
they carefully explored the pattern of the
cloth. His mind was a blank. It showed
nothing. It was as incapable of reflection
as the waters of the middle sea battered
by the winds beneath the tawny clouds.
His reason was not with him, and the
machinery of his mind had stopped.

There were no ideas in his imagination.
His mind floated free in unoccupied
space.

For a while he sat thus. Then he
raised his head and looked firmly into
the glass.

'' What has happened to me ? " he
thought, with his eyes fixed on the eyes
in the glass. '^ A moment ago, when I
discovered she still lived, I felt in despair ;
and now I am calm. What has happened
to me ?

What has happened to me ?

Here is the situation :

The servants think she went to that
boat. She knew on such occasions I
always took charge of whatever little
luggage we required. They have not
seen her since luncheon. They believe
she was in the RodiveU. It is scarcely
possible anyone can say she was not in
the Rodivell ; all the people and crew who

VOL. II. 6

were on the after-deck are dead. Anyone
\Yho heard of my visit to Asherton's
Quay, or met one of the servants, would
regard me as a widower. I was a widower
at Asherton's Quay. I teas a widower
while I drove up from Asherton's Quay
to this. My servants assure me I am a
widower.

To-morrow all Daneford will regard
me a widower.

To-morrow morning Maud Midharst
will think of me as a widower — Maud
Midharst, who will one day own that
chest, which, when opened, willie found
to contain the bones of a thief and a
suicide, not the fortune of a great
heiress.

To-morrow morning Maud Midharst
will think of me as a widower ; icJw.t trill
she think of me as — at night f "

Suddenly the fixed expression left his
face. A thought that sent the blood

tingling through his veins had rushed in
upon him.

Perhaps," he said, breathless, " I ama
widower ! She may be dead ! "

He rose nimbly, and, taking up the
candle, once more wejit into the passage
leading to the first-floor room of the Tower
of Silence.

He looked carefully round, and then
going to the end of the passage further
from the tower, closed the two doors and
locked the inner one.

He proceeded cautiously back to the
door leading into the tower. This was
a single door. He held the candle in his
left hand, knocked with his right, and
bent his ear towards the door.

No reply.

He knocked again, this time more
loudly.

Still no reply.

Holding the candle behind him, he

bent low and looked into the keyhole.


Undoubtedly there was the end of
the shaft of the key shining against his-eye.


He paused a while in deep thought ;
then shaking himself up, knocked more
loudly, battering with his clenched fist.

No answer.

He looked at the candle he carried.
It was wax, and in his moving to and
fro the wax had overflowed the flame-jean
and run down the side, making a long
thin ridge. He took a piece of jDcncil
from his pocket, stripped off the ridge
of wax, softened the wax at the flame,,
and stuck a lump the size of a pea on the
end of the pencil.

Then he heated the free end of the
wax, and when it had just begun to run
thrust it cautiously into the keyhole, and
pressed the wax against the shaft of the

key in the lock. He hell the pencil
steadily thus for a few minutes. With
great caution he tried it. All was well.
The wax adhered firmly to the end of the
pencil and the shaft of the key.

With elaborate care he twisted the
pencil slightly one way, then the other.
The key moved slowly in the lock. He
tried it four or five times right and left,
and holding the candle behind him and
his eye on a level with the keyhole. At
last the hole was completely blocked up
by the body of the key. Forcing the
pencil in firmly, the key slipped through
the hole and fell on the floor within.

He straightened himself, leaned against
the wall for a moment, and wiped his
forehead. Then drawing his keys out of
his pocket, he inserted one in the lock,
turned the lock softly, and entered.

As he did so the head of a man
disappeared below the window-sill. Grey

did not see this head, nor did be at that
time know of the man's presence.

The room was one of medium size,.
but it was dark in colour, and the one
candle was almost lost in it, and revealed
little or nothing.

Holding the light above his head Grey
steered around.

He approached a couch, on which could
be dimly seen the prostrate figure of a
woman. The figure did not move as he
drew near.

He stood over the couch and looked
down upon his wife. She was lying on
her back. Her mouth was slightly open,
and her face very pale. Her eyes, too,
were partly open.

He waved the candle across the eyes.
No sign of consciousness. He called " Bee "
softly two or three times. No answer.

Could it be she was really dead ?
Eeally dead after all?

He stooped clown and put his ear over
her mouth.

No, this was not death. This was —
brandy.

He shook her slightly. He caught
her by the shoulder and shook her more
strongly, calling her name into her ear.

She responded by neither sound nor
motion.

Then putting the candle down on the
Poor he stood up, folded his arms, and
reflected intently with his eyes fixed on
her.

Not death but brandy, and yet how
like death, and how near death ! How
near death 1 And still in the ' interval
between this and death lay his ruin, his
destruction. A blanket thrown on that
face would bridge over the interval between
this state and death, and give him a golden
road to happiness and glorious prosperity.

His wife ! This his wife here, degraded

thus ! This woman whom he had loved
with all the love he had ever given
woman ! This woman, whom he had
married in defiance of his father's wish
and all worldly wisdom ! Great God, was
this to be borne ?

She had brought herself nigh death.
She was nigh death now. It might be
she would never awake. It was quite
possible she might never awake. But then
the hideous scandal ! The coroner's jury
found that Mrs. Grey, wife of Henry
Walter Grey, Esq., died of excessive drink !
Intolerable !

And yet this wretched woman lying
here had made such a thing not only
possible but probable. Suppose she should
never wake, what an unendurable position
for him ! He could not live through that
odious inquest, never survive that degrading
verdict. He should throw himself into the
Weeslade, or blow out his brains first.

Any time she might get into such a
condition and never awake ! Great God !
this was a view of the case he had never
taken until now. He had always had
the dread of disclosure before his mind,
but now he should have the infinitely
more appalling horrors of a coroner's
jury and a coroner's verdict. This was
insupportable. Abominable !

Any time in the future she might die
.as she was now. Then no doubt he should
be a widower, but a widower under what
a terrible shadow ! Suppose she should
-die now, and by any means it should
come out that he had deliberately placed
the brandy in her way, he had better
leave Daneford at once. They would look
on him as a murderer.

As a murderer !

They would hioio he had put a fatal
temptation in his wife's path. The discovery
was what he dreaded.

Suppose she never woke again — ah !

Suppose she never got up alive off
that couch !

Never got up from where she lay !

That was a royal thought ? Now to
make all rio'ht, all secure. Now ! What
a royal thought ! A thought worthy of
the prince regnant of the Nether Depths.

He stooped, took up his candle, and
crossed the room with rapid steps. He
locked the door of the tower-room, and,
having reached his own room, rang the bell.

James answered the bell.

^^ James,' he said, "I cannot rest. I
cannot believe this dreadful thing. I wish
you and the other servants to search the
house thoroughly from garret to cellars.
Mind, a room is not to be omitted. When
every room has been examined let me
know. I have been in the tower."

James left, and for an hour the banker
sat alone in his bedroom. At the end of

the hour James came back with the resort
that every room had been examined and
no trace found.

^' We can do no more, James. I shall
want no one to-night. You may all
go to bed as soon as you like. Goodnight."


Again he was alone. Alone for the
night. Alone save for the proximity of
his wife in the next room. Alone with
his royal idea and the easy means of
carrying it out.

He braced himself, and began walking
up and down the room firmly.

Yes, this was a golden opportunity,
which would have been utterly worthless
but that in the mid centre and at the
right moment his great thought had burst
in upon him.

It was most likely his wife would
never wake. In fact, the chances were
in favour of her not waking. It would

be almost a miracle if ever lie returned
to consciousness.

Why should there ever be an inquest ?

Supposing she had died in her sleep,
it would have done no one any good
to howl an inquest.

Then, if she did die in this sleep,
what would Maud Midharst regard him
as tomorrow night ?

As a widower, of course.

And what should he regard himself as ?

As a man doubly delivered from a
wife Who was the slave of an odious
vice, and from ruin, disgrace, and suicide.

She was sleeping still, he supposed.
He would go and try.

He stole cautiously out into the passage,
and, opening the door into the tower-room,
crept towards the couch. He did
not carry a candle this time. He stumbled
over something hard and metallic which
he had seen when last in the room. He

recovered himself rapidly. He paused,
balanced himself on the balls of his feet,
leaned forward, and listened intently.

The sound had not roused her.

It was as dark as a vault. A faint
blue square, like the bloom under trees
in summer, showed the situation of the
one window. All the rest was as much
out of view as if the solid earth intervened.

He crossed the room and approached
the couch, with his head thrust forward,
and all the faculties of his mind bent on
his hearing ; he stooped over the couch
and listened, as though he would pierce
remotest silence to reach what he sought.

Yes, there was a low, faint sound of
breathing, but so low it seemed to come
from a long distance.

He knelt down beside the couch, and
called softly in her ear, ^^Bee."

No answer.

'' Bee."

No answer.

"Bee."

No answer.

A long pause followed, during which
no sound stirred in the intense darkness.
The husband still leant over the wife,
the wife still breathed faintly.

Then

In ten minutes from that strange sound
Grey was back in his bedroom, standing
before the glass with set resolute lips and
a, rigid white face.

THE ASCENT OF THE TOWER OF SILENCE.

'" There need be no inquest," lie thought.
'there need be no inquest now. Tomorrow
morning every one in Daneford
will believe that she is dead, and everyone
will be — right. Her name will be
included in the list of the dead, there
will be a reference to my broken-hearted
behaviour at Asherton's Quay, and there
will be expressions of sympathy with me.

*' I shall wear mourning.

'what o'clock is it?" He looked at
his watch. " Too soon yet. I must wait
until all are asleep.

I shall wear mourning and receive

the condolences of my friends. I shall
pass through avenues of faces cast in
sorrow for my grief. They will hush
their voice when I enter the Daneford
Bank. They will unanimously vote resolutions
of sympathy at most of the j)"iiblic
bodies to which I belong. And I — I —
how shall I receive their greetings ?

'' How shall I receive them ? Shall I
quail and tremble and jabber of to-night's
work ? Shall I become hysterical or-gloomy
? No, no, no. I shall be as bold
at least as the thief whom they crucified
on the Left Hand.

The oath I took by that bedside
this evening was my swearing into the
army of the everlasting damned, and no
one shall ever say I quailed or I faltered.

What o'clock is it ? Yet too soon.
This is all I need be careful about. Once
It is there, I shall be free and blithe —
free and blithe !

*' I shall meet them all and never
show a sign. It is a pity I did not goon
the stage. I feel quite confident I
can play out this part to the end, and
carry my audience with me so thoroughly
that not one of them will know I am
playing a part. No living man shall
find out I do not speak my own words.
It is only comrade Judas and his friends
know who the real author of the play is''

He turned away from the glass and
began pacing the room quickly. He was
thinking with fierce pride of the brave
front he should show to the world, and
motion stimulated his mind and gave
reality to his mental action.

Yes, he should never waver. In fact
he felt stronger now than before. He
had lived under the shadow of her fault ;
now he faced his own crime. All depended
on himself, and he knew he was equal to
the situation and its contingencies.

VOL. II. 7

He could face them all. All the
people of Daneford and Seacliff. Everyone
of

He shivered, drew his body together,
and leaned for a moment against the wall.
The cold sweat oozed from his white forehead,
and he gasped for breath. In a
while he shook himself, threw up his
arms, and wound them round his head,
as if to protect himself against the blows
of a merciless enemy, and moaned out,
in a tone of craven misery :

"No, no ! Not you ? Go away ! I
cannot look at you ; you must not come
near me. I have ceased to be your son.
I am not the child you suckled. I am
not the son you taught to pray. I am
not the man you inspired with respect
and love. I am not the son you always
tried to make do his duty. Mother, let
me call you mother darling once again ;
to call you my angel, mother, seems to

purge me of my crime, I am a strongman,
mother, lout I cannot look at you.
Bee is dead, and I have killed her. Now,
will you not fly from me ? Think of
your son as dead, and fly this murderer.
What ! you will not ! You see the brand
of Cain, and you will not go! Oh, invincible
love ! Intolerable devotion ! Supreme
disciple of Christ, you drive me mad. I
am mad already. Go, woman; go, woman,
or I may kill you too."

He dropped his arms from his head,
and glared round the room with the fire
of madness in his eyes. The neck-ribbon
his wife had worn last night at dinner
hung on the glass ; a pair of her slippers,
soft slippers for comfort, were under the
dressing-table. His eyes lighted on the
ribbon, then on the slippers.

With an idiotic laugh he staggered
across the room, and, sitting down on
the side of the bed, remained in a torpor

for a long time. The last vision conjured
uj) by him had stunned his imagination
and baffled his intellect, and his mind,
while he sat thus, was plank as the
viewless wind.

It was a long time before he roused
himself, and even then he had to employ
considerable effort to bring himself ujd to
the ]point of action. He knew he had
yet something of the last importance todo.
He looked at his watch.

Eleven. All is quiet. I may safely
go now."

He arose, and, taking the candle with
him, walked heavily into the passage, and
having opened the other door passed into
the tower-room, and locked the door of
that room, leaving his own key in the
lock.

Remembering the second key, he lowered
the candle and looked for it on the dark
oak floor. He saw it and picked it up.

As he did so his eyes caught another
metallic glitter on the floor, and stepping
towards it he took up something.

Holding the metallic object next the
light, he seemed for a moment perplexed.

What brings a burglar's jemmy here ?
How can it have come here '? '^

He looked very cautiously and slowly
round the room.

I did not notice until now," he
thought, '' those open drawers. Why,
the place has been broken into."

His first impulse was to rush to the
window. But he curbed that. It would
be just as well not to be seen at that
window now. Suppose by any chance the
burglar happened to be lurking in the
neighbourhood, in the Park. No part of
the house or grounds commanded this
room, and so long as he did not go near
.the window all would be well.

He had stumbled over that jemmy

before — before he had added to the perfidy
of Judas the sin of Cain.

He approached the couch. All was.
c[uiet there. Not a sound, not a breath.

He went still nearer. Now for the
first time he noticed close by the couch
an empty decanter, the one into which
James had poured Brandy, and l:)y it a
glass.

He noticed something else too ; the
left hand of the figure on the couch lay
on the breast, and from the third fino^er-
all the rings were e^one.

All the rings gone ! " he thought, in
dismay. ^' The place broken into and all
the rings gone ! This room broken into
and the rings taken off the finger ! She
never removed the wedding-ring, and
scarcely ever the guard. She must have
been asleep when he came in ; and he, no
doubt, seeing the decanter and the glass,
and observing she took no notice of

sounds, went al)out his work. A bold
man, a very bold man."

When had that man been there ? He
had no means of determining the time at
which the burglar had been in the room.
It was clear, however, he had been there
while she was alive.

Had he been there after the sailing of
the steamboat Rodivell from Daneford that
evening ? If so, that burglar could hang
him, Grey.

Out with the candle.

He extinguished it.

A profound quiet brooded abroad. Nota
leaf stirred. The trees were as motionless
and the air as mute as if the air was solid
crystal. No sound from the city or the
road intruded upon the voiceless darkness
of that tower-room.

Grey stood a while looking at the
square of dim blue bloom indicating where
the window was. Then he stooped and

touched what lay on the couch, and pulled
himself upright with a jerk.

He stooped down his head once more,
and listened intently. Last time he had
so stooped he had heard a low faint
breathing. Now nothing reached his ears,
but beyond the reach of human ears he
heard the deep roll of the Eternal Ocean
on the shores of Everlasting Night.

The ocean of everlasting silence, where
her voice had been, was more awful than
the clangour of war, or the shouts of a
burning town.

It will not do to think now. I
must make thought drunk with action.

She is not heavy. I have often carry

No, no ; that sort of thing would be the
worst of all. Now for it!"

He stooped once again, rose more
slowly than at any former time, and
walked down the room with heavy footfall,
carrying a burden.

The room had two doors — one between
it and the passage leading to the bedroom ;
the other between it and the landing of
the tower-stairs.

The staircase down from the landing
was boarded off, so that egress from the
.tower-room by that staircase was impossible.


The upward way was unimpeded. The
staircase had not been used once for years.
'There was nothing in either of the upper
rooms, and no one had ever been in
either of them since Grey himself-when
he had gone over the house before buying it.

The staircase was as dark and silent
-as a grave. A thin carpet of dust deadened
the footfalls, and, clinging to the boot-leather,
muffled the feet. Now and then
his foot crushed a small piece of plaster
which had fallen from the ceiling. This
made a sound like a wild beast crunching
bones.

The pander had parted from the walls
in many places, and hung in damp festoons
from the ceiling here and there.

Now and then long slimy arms of
paper stretched out to him from the walls
and held him back. This made him
stagger against the balustrade to steady
himself. The Illustrate upon which he
laid his hand was rickety, and covered
vdih a damp spongy dust, that clung to
his hand and worked up between his
moist fingers, and stuck his fingers together
as with blood. When he had got
clear of the paper that, hanging from the
walls, had seized him, and had pushed
himself away from the slimy balustrade,
he toiled upward.

But the day had been a terribly
exhausting one, and his progress was very
slow.

He held his burden with his riQ:ht
arm on his right shoulder, and steadied

himself against the wall with his riofht
elbow, against the balustrade with his left
hand.

Owing: to the inviolate darkness and
his small acquaintance with the way, he
was obliged to feel carefully with his foot
each step before advancing.

He gained the first landing. The
darkness was so complete, it pressed with
weight upon his eyeballs, and thickened
the air in his lungs. He had already
begun to breathe heavily, and he paused
for breath. Only about a sixth of his
upward way had been accomplished, and
yet he felt fatigued. The stifling sultry
air of the tower made him languid and
drowsy.

The sooner this was done, the better.

He recommenced the ascent.

On reaching the next landing, that
of the second-floor room, he paused again.

His breathing had by this time become

more laboured, and he felt as if his chest
would burst. No fresh air had entered
that loathsome place for years. In winter
the walls wept, the paper hung off, and
fungus covered the walls and the woodwork.


In summer the walls dried up, and
from the dead fungi rose the stifling
vapours exhaled when decay feeds on
decay. These odious vapours enriched the
walls with new growing powers, and so
the process went on. The tower rotted
inwardly. Damp came first, and later
mildew, and then fungus. The fungus
lived its life and finally fell to pieces,
yielding inodorous fibre and mephitic spirit.
The spirit fed the later growth of fungus.

Here nitre clung in crystals to the
walls, and there were incomplete stalagmites
milder the stone window-sills.

Huge spiders wove gigantic nets from
balustrade to wall, from roof to wall, from

window-sash to floor. But no flies ever
came to these webs, and the spiders spread
needless snares, and lived at ease on
lesser game.

In summer all the dust upon the floor
moved continually with worm and maggot
of extraordinary size, and obscene ugliness
of form and colour. Neither beetle nor
cockroach, earwig nor cricket, found a home
here. Nothing moved swiftly, not even
the spider, for he found food without
pursuit or strife. Here was no contention
among individuals. As in all earliest
forms of life, nearly everything was done
for the individual by heat and moisture.
The unseemly inside of that tower was
fretting and rotting slowly away, being
slowly devoured by the worm and the
maggot and the fungus.

Through the warm vapours of that
polluted tower the man staggered upward.
His breathing had now become stertorous,.

and beat in the hollow staircase and
against the sounding boards furnished by
the empty rooms like the snorting of a
hunted monster.

The air grew thicker in his lungs, and
this heart tingled and throbbed as though
it would burst. The arteries in his neck
appeared at each beat of his pulse about
to jump from their places. His gullet
was dry, and the air rushing through his
windpipe seemed burdened with sand that
tore the skin of his parched throat. The
arteries in his temple twanged against the
bone with noises that made him giddy.
The uproar of strangulation was in his
head. His knees were sinking under him,
and he felt he should faint or fall down
in a fit if he did not do something.

He resolved to shift his burden from
the right shoulder to the left.

How heavy ! Ugh !

Cold already !

Oh, great God ! the lips had touched
his forehead, and they were cold ! The
lips he had a thousand times

With a howl that made the hollow
chambers and the invisible staircase shake,
he clasped his burden to his left shoulder
and dashed wildly up the stairs.

Now he ran against the wall in front,
now against the balustrade. He took a
step too many, and plunged headforemost
against the wall. He took a step too
few, and fell headlong upon a landing.

What was all that to him now ? What
was all that to him, who had loved her
once, her whose cold lips — cold of his
own chilling — had touched his forehead ashe
shifted his murdered darling from one
shoulder to another ?

Oh, God ! the lips he had lingered
on lovingly long ago ! The lips he had
sought with all his soul and won to his
own exclusive use ! How often had they

told this name ! How often had they told
her love to him, when all else in the world
sank into nothingness compared with the
august privilege of knowing she loved
him ! How often when she slept had he
heard those lips breathe his name with
terms of endearment ! And now, oh
God!

On ! On ! There is a clamour of
memories worse than demons at his back.

On ! Out of this place ! Away from
these memories !

The roof at last !

The roof, with cool air and a wide
view, and — This !

He placed his burden softly on the
roof of the tower; then throwing himself
down at full length, rolled over on his
face, and, putting one forearm under the
other, rested his forehead on the upper
arm, and, excepting the heavy heaving
of his chest, lay still.

ON THE TOP.

The top of the tower was flat. It was
reached through a hooded doorway resembling
a ship's companion. A parapet
about two and a half feet high ran round
the tower on all sides, and in the left-hand
angle of the parapet, looking towards
the grounds in front of the house, stood
the tall, battered, dilapidated, rusted
tank.

This tank had been of substantial
make. Four upright bars of iron still
stood showing; where the four andes of
the elevation of the tank had been.

VOL. II. 8

Binding the top of these four uprights
together had been a substantial raiL The
inner side of that rail had disappeared ;
the three other sides remained. Half-way
down the uprights had been four girders
binding the uprights together. Of these
girders three were entire, the one on the
outside having succumbed to violence or
time. A few of the plates clung to the
uprights in the upper section of the tank.
In the lower section only one plate was
missing, and that on the back of the tank.
The base of the tank was eio^ht feet
square, the height of the uprights ten
feet. Once in it had been stored the
Vater supply. More than fifty years ago
it had been superseded by a tank put
up in the main building. Since then nota
dozen times had any one visited the
top of the tower.

That night of the 17th of August was
dark ; there were neither stars nor moon.

No wind liacl arisen to disturb the intense
calm.

At length Grey rose from the ground
.somewhat refreshed and quieted. There
was no use in being foolhardy, and although
a person standing on the avenue
below could not possibly see a human
figure on the top) of the tower, still all
means caution could suggest ought to be
employed. So he stepped into the dilapidated
tank through the opening, and
having, except on the inner side, a
complete bulwark around him five feet
high, there was no chance of any one
seeing him. He did not care to face yet

the descent through that stifling tower.

He would wait a while until he should
be fully restored.

He had eaten nothing since luncheon,
and the physical and mental ordeals
through which he had since passed
reduced the activity of his mind, and

made this thoughts move slowly, and
dimmed the ideas in his imagination.
Still in a dull way he sought to review
his position.

There to the right lay Daneford, his
town, the city of which he was dictator,
which would do anything, everything he
asked. You could not see the city from
this, but there it reposed under that red-yellow
stain ujDon the sky.

The people of that town, if they had
seen him take that old man's gold, would
not have believed the evidence of their
senses. They would have placed their
opinion of him against the evidence of
their eyes, and his reputation would turn
the balance as though nothing was in the
other scale. He was sure of that.

To the left was the Island. The old
man probably still lived and would live
for some time, but the will was now safe.
Maud was still unmarried, and he — was

free ! Free in a double sense : free to
marry again, and free from the clutches
•of the law — so far.

In front of him lay the Manor Park
with its stifling groves and alleys, whose
slush, rank vegetation and loathsome reptiles
and insects kept curious boy and prying
man at bay.

By his side stood the Manor House,
upon which no green thing would grow,
and which had an evil name.

Beneath him was that repulsive tower,
xip which no one would care to go except
upon dire compulsion.

Behind him

Yes, behind him lay — It.

The question was, Would his reputation
in the town, the fact that by noon tomorrow
everyone in Daneford would believe
he had lost his wife in the Rodwellj the
unpopular Park, the uncanny house, the
foul tower, the parapet, the remains of

this tank (perfect five feet from the roof,,
except for one eighteen-inch plate, which,,
owing to its position at the back, could
not be even missed from any standpoint
but the top of the tower itself), keep It
from discovery ? be an effectual and lifelong
barrier between detection and crime,,
so that he might marry and live once

more in ? Well, never mind in what

Anyway, might live ?

It was a long question. He put it to
himself many times, and could arrive at
no answer. His reason answered Yes.
His imagination answered No ; and according
as his reason or his imagination
dominated he hoped or he despaired.

The hours advanced. It would be
well to get this all over and go down.
He had locked the door on the passage,
and there was no need for fear or hurry.
But staying here did no good, and he
had now sufficiently recovered to go down.

He stepped out of the tank and approached
the burden.

He raised it, and bending low carried
it to the tank. There was difficulty in
getting it through the narrow opening,
lout at last all was accomplished.

He stepped out of the tank, and stood
on the open part of the top of the tower
for a few moments to recover his breath.

'' Hah ! I am all right now. I shall
grope my way down very well ; it will
not take half so long to go down as it
did to come up."

He placed his hand on the hood of
the doorway and stooped to descend ; he
paused and drew back, thinking :

'^ If I have killed her, that is no reason
why 1 should add brutality to crime. I
did not cover her face, and the birds
mio'ht "

He crept back to the tank, leaving

the thought unfinished.

He entered it and stooped.

All at once something happened in
his mind. Just as he stooped to cover
the face of his dead wife, he fell upon
his knees beside her, and cried out :

Almighty God, I have killed her.
Almighty God, be merciful if Thou wilt,
and let me dies

Burying his face in his hands he burst
into hysterical sobs that shook him and
would not be uttered without racking

o

pains. They were too big for his chest,
too big for his throat, too big for his
mouth. While a sob was bursting from

o

his labouring chest he felt the weight often
thousand atmospheres pressing down
his throat. When the sob burst forth,
he shuddered and shivered and winced as
if a scourge wielded by a j^o'^^'^i'f^^l '^^'^
had fallen on his naked shoulders.

The violence of this outburst had one
alleviating effect : Avliile it racked the

physical it annihilated the mental man.
He was sobbing because he knew he
shad most excellent cause for inarticulate
sorrow. But the sorrow itself made no
image in his mind. It was with him as
with the player of an instrument, who,
.coming upon a well-known passage of
great mechanical difficulty, finds when
.the passage is passed small memory of
the music and strong memory of each
flexion of the fingers, but can, when he
needs it, hear all the passage again note
for note as it had flown from beneath his
fingers.

The wife of his middle life had been
murdered by some one long ago. He
thought nothing of that. But now he
was kneeling by the corpse of the wife
of his youth, the bride-sweetheart of his
.stronger years.

All the trouble, all the care, all the
memory of her faults, of her odd ways,

were gone. He was not the middle-aged
husband penitent by the body of the
middle-aged wife he had murdered. He
was the young enthusiastic husband-lover
by the side of his dead young wife.

He had not killed the Beatrice he had
married long ago. But, woe, woe,
incommunicable agony, he had slain all
the faults of his middle-asked wife, he had
slain all the years of his life during
which his indifference had sprouted and
blossomed, and was nov by the side of
the woman dead whose existence had
been to him the sunshine and the rapture
of his life.

In a moment of madness he had
sought to kill a faulty wife, but by
terrible decrees of Heaven he had killed,
instead, all the faults of his faulty
wife and the sweetheart of his youth.
Almighty Maker, did his crime deserve
this I

Gradually the physical agony left
him, only to be followed by the mental
anguish.

Bee," he moaned, " Bee, won't you
get up and walk with me ? We shall not
go far, for it is late. I want to tell you
what we shall do with the back drawing-room
in the summer. Don't you remember
how I told you once, love, and you were
pleased and kissed me. Bee ? It is about
Smiling the little conservatory for you.
You will get up and walk with me a
little way. Do, Bee. Let me lift you
up.

He stretched out his hand and caught
something.

'•' Cold !

Cold ! "

Then he shuddered and drew back. A
third and final change came with the touch
of that dead woman's hand. All illusion
left him, and, covering the face of the

lead, lie crawled out of the tank — the
murderer of this wife.

Still overhead hung the black sky,
still abroad brooded the unbroken stillness.

He looked deliberately around him.
What had been done could not be undone,
and he had now only to make the best
of the situation. Already he felt one
good result from his greater crime ; it
had dwarfed the other to insignificant
proportions. The theft now seemed a
trifle.

But what had happened to Daneford
and the country round, and the grounds
about his house, and the tower upon
which he stood ? Some strange change
had come over the relations between him
and them. What was it ? Daneford, and
the country round, and the ground at his
feet had receded, gone back from him.
He was farther from them than he had
been that day. AVhat a strange sensation 1

The sensation was very peculiar. He
lead never felt anything like it before.
What had that morning seemed most
important to him had now sunk into
insignificance. Nothing was of consequence
— save One ; namely, the chance
of a stranger coming to the top of that
tower while It remained there.

The feeling was new to G-rey, for ho
was new to the situation he had that
night created. The solitude of a vast
desert of sand under the pale stars, the
solitude of the topmost frozen peaks of
the Himalaya, the solitude of an ice-locked
Arctic sea, the solitude for a hunted man
of an unknown city, is profound and awful ;
but all combined and intensified a hundredfold
are nothing compared with the appalling
solitude upon which man enters Ashen
over one shoulder, he knows not which ^
peers for ever the face of a murdered
victim.

That face had not yet come to Grey,
iDut as he descended the muffled stairs of
the Tower of Silence he felt her cold lips
touch his forehead once again ; and once
again he plunged forward on his Away,
taking; little for life.

CHAPTER I.

A STRANGER AT THE CASTLE.

Maud, darling," said Mrs. Grant, " a
gentleman dressed in black, who will not
give his name, and says he wants to see
you most particularly, has arrived. What
message do you wish to send him ? Will
you see him ?

^' Oh, Mrs. Grant, I can't see any one.
How can any one be so unreasonable as
to think I can see him to-day ! Such a
day for a stranger to call ! "

Both ladies were in the dee^DCst new
mourning:.

"Mr. Grey has also come. He sends-word
that he couki not think of intruding
upon you, hut that if you wish to see
him he is at your service."

Oh, no, Mrs. Grant ! Dear Mrs. Grants
do save me ! Tell them all that I am
too wretched to see any one. Thank them
all for me, dear Mrs. Grant, and save me
from them. Pray, save me from them !
The girl threw her arm round the widow
and sobbed helplessly.

"No, no, my child, they shall not
come near you. I only brought you the
messages. I do not ask you to see anyone.
You shall, my darling Maud, do
just as you please. A number of other
people have come too. Many of Sir
Alexander's old friends. But you hardly
know these. My only thought was,
might you wish to see Mr. Grey, who
is doing everything ; and I wondered if
you might not wish to say something

to him. I wondered if you might not
like to tell him some last wish, for they
will start presently — in less than an
hour.

The girl made a strong effort, and
succeeded in calming herself.

'dear Mrs. Grant, try to forgive me.
I am too selfish. But I am distracted.
I never knew till now how fond I was
of — of my father, and it would be rude
and ungrateful in me not to see Mr.
Grey after all his care and trouble.
What should we have done without him ?
Not a soul belonging to us near us.
Dear Mrs. Grant, will you go to him
and say — don't send a servant, he deserves
all the courtesy we can show him —
say to him I would go to him myself,
but the house and place is soso
crowded, and I am not very —
strong. Say I should like to see
him, if only for a moment, to thank

VOL. II. 9

him. Go, please go. I would not
for the world have him think that
I did not feel gratitude for all his
kindness."

This was on Wednesday, 31st of
October, 1866, ten weeks after the
blowing up of the steamship Rodivell,
on her way from Daneford to Seaeliff,
and a few days more than eight weeks
after the visit of Joe Farleg to the
banker Grey at the banker's residence,
the Manor, Daneford.

On the preceding Saturday — that is
to say, October the 27tli^Sir Alexander
Midharst had ]passed quietly away. The
doctors had foretold correctly ; and from
the 17th of AuoTist to the 27th of October

o

Sir Alexander Midharst had never had
a lucid moment.

While the baronet lay insensible Grey
was, as he had foretold, much at the
Castle, but in that time nothing of

importance arose. Grey had gradually
fallen into the position to be occupied
by him of right when the old man died,
and was consulted on all matters of
moment connected with the estate and
the Island. In fact, after the first few
weeks of Sir Midharst's complete unconsciousness,
the direction of affairs fell
almost wholly into his hands. He
originated all matters of consequence,
and, having asked and obtained Miss
Midharst's approval, saw them carried out.
This bright, crisp, last day of October
was the day of the funeral. For this
ceremony Grey had made the arrangements.
Only personal friends of the
late baronet and twenty of the principal
tenants were to go to the Island for the
purpose of carrying the body from the
Castle to the slip, and accompanying it
across the water. The remainder of the
tenants, and all others desirous of attending

funeral, were to assemble on the mainland
and await the body. When the coffin
had been landed, the procession would proceed
in a certain determined order; and as
the deceased had no near relative, and no*
relative near or distant was to be present,
Mr. Grey, in virtue of his long connection
with Sir Alexander, and of the relations
in which the will would place him to Sir
Alexander's child, was to occupy the place
of chief mourner.

Mrs. Grant found the banker in the
library, and gave him, in a somewhat
modified form, the message Miss Midharst
had sent to him. Without saying a word
he left the room, following the lady.

Where is the strange Gentleman who-wanted
to see Miss Midharst, and would
not give his name ? " asked the lady, as
they passed down the corridor leading to
the staircase. " I did not see him in the
library. Oh, here he is."

They encountered a tall, slight, sacrificed
man clad in black.

Mrs. Grant stopped, Mr. Grey fell
tack a few paces, and the widow said :

I am sorry Miss Midharst is so much
distressed just now that she does not feel
equal to seeing you. You will of course
understand that the circumstances are very
trying upon her."

The stranger bowed, and answered ina
low, quiet, full voice :

I am deeply grieved by Miss Mid-hast's
trouble. I would not think of
seeking to intrude uj^on her but for good
reasons. There is no absolute necessity
for my seeing her at this moment. Later
I hope to have an opportunity of expressing
personally to her my sympathy, and of
saying what further I wish to say. I
am much indebted to you for the effort
you have made in my behalf."

He indicated that he had nothing to

add, and by keeping bowed showed that
he did not desire to detain Mrs. Grant
longer.

When she and the banker were out of
the stranger's hearing, she said to Grey :

*' Do you know who that gentleman
is"? I have never seen his face before."

"I do not know who he is. Nor have
I seen his face before."

It was well for Grey they were in the
dimly-lighted corridor, because he blenched
and staggered for a moment.

Who can this man be *? " he thought y.
who has such urgent business with Miss
Midharst ? Can this swarthy solemn man
be here on official business connected with
with Miss Midharst's money ? He looks
a gentleman, but talks too like a book
for one. A detective ? That would baa
nice finale to this ceremony.

*' Dear Miss Midharst, here is Mr. Grey
come to see you," said Mrs. Grant, opening.

the door of the little drawing-room and
ushering in the banker.

Grey entered with a calm, sympathetic
face.

Maud had collected herself, and was
now much less distressed than when Mrs.
Grant left her a little while before. She
held out her hand, and said, in a tone,
under the transient sadness of which could
be felt the steady current of grave gratitude,

Mr. Grey, you will add to all your
great kindness if you consider my inexperience
and how little I know the way
to tell you my thanks. I feel ashamed
I am not able to express them ; but I
know you will understand my gratitude
even though I cannot put it in words
Mrs. Grant and you are the only friends
I have in the world ; and if it were not for
you two, I think I should die."

He took her hand respectfully, and
retained it a moment.

"Mrs. Midharst, I beg of you not to
trouble yourself about such matters. I
know Mrs. Grant is invaluable ; but as
to me — you are aware what I promised
Sir Alexander about you, and if you
trouble yourself to thank me I shall
begin to suspect you imagine 1 find it
irksome to do towards the living what
I have sworn to the dead."

Oh, no, no, no ! Forgive me ! I
only meant to tell you I am very
grateful, and don't know how to say it.
Indeed, you must think nothing of the
kind, Mr. Grey. Tell me you forgive
me ! " She stretched impetuous appealing
hands to him, and looked out of soft
tear-dimmed eyes into his.

For a moment his admiration of her
delicate beauty overcame everything else,
and he remained gazing silently into that
sweet young pleading face — that face pleading
to him to believe she felt grateful

to him. Then he came back to the
circumstances and the time, and said,

There is only one thing I shall never
forgive you."

And what is that ? "

If you discover any way in which
I can be of use to you and fail to let
.me know."

You are too good, Mr. Grey. How
shall I ever thank you '? "

He waved her speech aside with a
deprecating gesture and a faint smile. " I
have come merely to know if I can be
of use to you ? Is there anything you
wish done you did not mention to me
yesterday ? "

"No, nothing. Only I cannot meet
any one. If I must go to the library by
cant by, that will be more than I should
like to see of people. Some gentleman,
who did not give his name, and whom I
.do not know and can't see, has asked me

to meet him. If you speak to him you
will explain and apologize for me."

'' I will, most assuredly," and, bowing;
once more, the banker retired.

Who can this man be who has come
to the Island uninvited, and seeks ta
thrust himself upon Miss Midharst such
a day as this ? Can it be anything has
been discovered ? I have no assurance
but Farleg's word that he did not tell
some one besides his wife what he saw
in the Tower-room that evening after the
blowing up of the Rodivell. But then, if
he did tell, it is not to this place the
owner of such news would come, but tome
at the Bank or at the Manor. If this
man is here for any unpleasant purpose,
it must be in connection with the Consols.
There is nothing else to cause the dangerous,
presence of such a man. If he is hereabout
the Consols, what does he know ? "

By this time Grey had reached the

library-door, and stood a moment with
his hand on the handle. Suddenly his-face
cleared, as, with a sigh of relief, he
thought,

What right have I to assume he
is here for an unpleasant or disastrous
purpose ? His gloomy face has put a
gloomy notion into my head, that is all."

He entered the room, and found the
tall, sad-faced stranger alone ; the others,,
those who had been invited, were now
assembling in the great hall, where the
body of the baronet lay beneath a black
velvet pall, under the eyes of his painted
ancestors, who stared at the crowd from
their gilded frames on the walls.

Mr. Grey approached the stranger with
a bland face and conciliatory carriage,
saying, " You find us, sir, in very great
confusion to-day, and I must apologize
to you for any want of courtesy you
may have felt. I am sure, however, you

will make allowances for us under the
melancholy circumstances. "

The stranger bowed gravely, and
said, in a deep, full voice, " I have experienced
no want of courtesy ; on the
contrary, every one I met has been most
polite."

I feel," Grey went on, with a graceful
and urbane gesture of the hand, — " I
feel myself more or less responsible for
the good treatment of all guests here
to-day." My name is Grey. I have just
come from Miss Midharst. I understand
you wish to see her, and, I am sorry to
say, she does not feel herself equal to
an interview ; lout if you will favour me
with any communication for her, or let
me know the nature of your business,
I shall be happy to do anything I can
for you." Grey spoke in a kind and
winning' manner. " There is no knowing
facts he may be in possession of.

and iiotliing can be lost by politeness
to him," was Grey's reflection.

^' I am very much obliged to you,"
answered the stranger, with a slight inclination
of the head ; but I shall reserve
what I have to say until I have an
opportunity of saying it later in the day
to Miss Midharst herself."

There was in the manner of the
speaker a | profound and imperturbable self-possession
most disquieting to the banker.
The latter rejoined,

But, indeed, I greatly fear she will
not be able to see you any time to-day."

The stranger smiled faintly, waved the
point aside with an air of perfect assurance,
and asked, " Will you be good
enough to tell me when and where the
will is to be read ? 1 am told it is to
be read."

May I know why you ask ? "

Because I intend to be present ? "

In what capacity ? "

'' I shall explain then."

'' The will is to be read in this room
to-day, when we have returned from the
funeral. Such was Sir Alexander's wish."

Thank you. I shall be here. When
-does the funeral start ? "

Grey looked at his watch. '^ In quarter
of an hour."

"I will not detain you further, Mr.
Grey. I know your time is fully occupied
to-day ;" and with a bow which indicated
the interview was over, he withdrew
towards the window.

Grey was completely confounded between
dread of the knowledge this man
might possess and the disagreeable sensation
awakened by the sense, for the first
time experienced in his life, of having
met a man, foot to foot and eye to
eye, who was a more able fencer than
himself.

As Grey took his way from the library
to the hall, he felt far from easy. He
did not want men near him, and he did
not want strange men ; he did not want
strange men more than a match for him
in fence ; and, above all, he did not
want this man, who was not only a
stranger and a better master of the foils,
but who, moreover, had matter of
importance to communicate to Miss
Midharst, and displayed a plain conviction
he should that day have an
opportunity of speaking to Miss Midharst,
notwithstanding her denials.

And now he had declared his intention
of being present at this old-fashioned
reading of the will. What could that
mean ? Who could he be that thus
insisted upon thrusting himself upon
this house of mourning?

Then a terrible fear rushed in upon
Walter Grey's mind. Could it be that

at the last moment the old man had
altered his will and appointed a second
trustee, one to act in conjunction with
him, Grrey, and that this cool self-possessed
man was that second trustee ? If it were
so, the alteration in the will was Greys


But much remained to be done in
little time ; so Grey hastened to the
hall, and was soon lost in the business
of getting the funeral under way.

As the funeral was about starting from
the Castle to the Ferry, and just as
Mr. Grey had placed himself immediately
behind the coffin, the stranger stepped
up to the banker's left side, and saying,
"Pardon me," slipped his right arm under
the left arm of the other.

Grey looked hastily over his shoulder.

"You will let me walk with you, I
assure you I have ample authority."

Grey staggered, so that the other had

to steady him. " Authority ! ample authority
! " thought the banker in dismay.
What can the nature of that authority
be ? Has he a warrant in his pocket to
arrest me for the murder of my wife ?
Does he defer putting it into execution
just now, so as to avoid making a scene ;
and has he thus taken my arm to prevent
the chance of my escape?"

Or had he come down with a warrant
in his pocket to arrest him the moment
the will had been read ? It might be that
someone at the Bank had discovered the
Midharst Consols had been sold ; and the
only evidence wanting in the chain would
be supplied by a reference in the will
to the stock, thereby showing that Sir
Alexander, at the time of his death, was
under the impression the stock was still
his, thus proving it had not been disposed
of with the baronet's knowledge.

Grey felt himself powerless to resist.

VOL. II. 10

He thought it best to raise no question,
make no demur. The cold sweat broke
out on his forehead ; he knew his voice
would tremble if he essayed to speak. He
bowed his head in token of acquiescence,
and the funeral proceeded to the Ferry.

Can it be," thought Grey in an agony
of fear — " Can it be, while I am walking
after the body of him whom I have robbed,
they are gazing on the body of her I have
murdered."

They reached the boats, and were ferried
across to the main land.

They re-formed, and were joined by a
vast gathering of tenants, labourers, and
others. The procession set off once more.

During all this time the strand-er remained
silent. He did not address a
single word to Grey, nor Grey to him.

During all this time Grey was suffering
the agony of the rack. He felt confident
he was about to be attacked, but he did

not know whence the attack wouki come,
or what the nature of it might be. A
successful attack of any kind upon him
coukl have but one result — Destruction.

On the way back to the Castle the
stranger seemed plunged in still deeper
reverie ; and beyond a few of the most
ordinary common-places, not a word passed
between Grey and him.

All throughout the stranger kept on
the left-hand side of Grrey.

All throughout Grey saw at his left
shoulder the Nemesis of his fate, and over
the right the pallid face of his murdered
victim.

THE READING OF THE WILT

^' Now, Maud darling, do try to Ijear up.
Drink this wine to give you strength.
Come, they are all waiting for us in the-library.
Drink this for my sake. Well,
half ; drink half of it for my sake, my
dear, dear child. It was your other's
direct order the will should be read and
you should be present. Mr. Shaw tells
me this is not usual, but must be done."

I cannot drink the wine. It will not
take long, I suppose?"

Mr. Grey says that it is not likely
to take more than quarter of an hour.
The will is very short."

"Is ]\ii\ Grey in the library r'

"Yes, dear."

Please, put away that wine ; I am
ready to go now. You will come with
me?"

Of course, Maud. My place is at
your side, poor darling."

Mrs. Grant's words touched some chord
in the girl's heart, and she burst into
tears, crying :

Oh, Mrs. Grant, I never felt lonely
before. I don't know what I should do,
only for you and Mr. Grey."

Thank you, love. You know I'll
stay with you all my life. I have no
one of my own to live for ; they are all
gone. I have no father or mother, or
brother or sister, or husband or child. I
sam as lonely as you, Maud ; only you
have lost a father and this home, and by
and by you will marry and have a new
home, a husband, and little ones at your

knee ; but for me the world is over.
Every day I live kee2:)S me further off
from my husband ; every day you live
brings you nearer to yours. Ah, Maud,
women have but poor lives of it, and
the poor childless widow is worse than
the dead." She burst into tears.

'' Mrs. Grant," cried the girl, throwing
her arms round the woman, " pray, pray
forgive me ! I have been cruelly selfish,
thinking only of my own sorrow and
never of yours. Dear Mrs. Grant, do
forgive my selfishness !"

The widow wound her arms around
the weeping girl, and crushing back her
own grief, said passionately :

"Selfish, Maud! you selfish! Why,
my darling never thinks there is such a
person as herself until she finds she can
be of use to some one. No, love, not
selfish. There, love, love, don't cry ; we
shall be the best of friends all our lives.

We arc . both friendless aiitl alone ; that
is all the more reason why we should
1)e good friends all our lives, Maud
darling. I'll never leave you if you will
let me stay. There now, there's a dear
child ; dry your eyes and drink the wine,
and let us go and get this matter over."

Put away the wine ; I am ready.
We shall never, never part, Mrs. Grant
dear.

The two left the little drawling-room.
Mrs. Grant put one arm affectionately
round the girl's waist ; Maud held one of
Mrs. Grant's hands in hers.

As they drew near the library-door
they found Mr. Grey awaiting them in
the passage. Placing himself on her right
side, he offered her his arm. Mrs. Grant
dropped to the rear, and, preserving this
order, they reached the library-door.

Here Mr. Grey paused for a moment,
and said to his partner in a low voice :

The strange gentleman who wouhl
not give his name is within. He says he
has authority to be present. He may bea
solicitor on behalf of some of the smaller
legatees. I do not wish to be rude to
him or to say he must give me his
authority. He says he will speak to you
some time to-day. Do you wish me to
tell him to go, or do you prefer that I
should merely request him to give up all
hope of an interview to-day ? "

I cannot, I cannot see him," cried
the girl, clinging to his arm, and looking
up appealingly into his face.

Protect her," he thought, ^' against
this unknown man, who seems to threaten
my safety and her peace, of course I
shall. This is the first time she has
sought my protection, aud by a fortunate
chance it is against one whom I have
reason to dislike. How lucky ! How
lucky I have been in everything connected

with this Castle — about the will,
about the old man's illness, about the
confidence ! All has turned out exactly
as I wished. Her arm is now in mine.
She is calling out to me for help. I
feel already as if T lead won her ; as
if she leaned upon my arm as my —
wife."

Then he whispered to her,

Eest assured this man shall not intrude
upon you. If he keeps quiet he
may remain until the will has been read.
Then I shall be officially installed as your
guardian. Miss Midharst, and I shall know
how to act towards him if he dares to
interfere with you."

Drawing himself up to his full height,
he walked slowly into the library with
Miss Midharst on his arm, and Mrs. Grant
following a few paces behind. His flxce
was calm and firm ; in his tread and gait
there was conscious power. He felt he

could have faced any danger then. She,
upon whose good regard towards him and
final acceptance of him as a suitor all
depended, hung on his arm and clung to
him for protection. The chance that the
Tower of Silence would in his lifetime
give up its secret was one to a million.
He had a single reasonable cause of dread,
and that was lest she, Maud Midharst,
might turn away from him — might finally
reject him. With her arm on his, and
the memory of her confiding glance, he
felt like a great captain, who, having in
secret prepared a crushing attack, throws
up his head and pants at hearing the
great bay of the signal-gun which is to
shake out the standards and let loose the
thunders of prodigious war.

No more than a dozen people were
present. The servants stood at the end
of the room remotest from the one arose

o

window.

With its back to the window, at the
head of the table, was the baronet's great
straight-backed oak chair, empty. Mr.
Grey led Miss Midharst to a chair on the
right of this. As she moved up through
the room, half a dozen gentlemen, seated
round the room and at the table, rose
and bowed. The stranger, whose chair
was at the foot of the table, rose with the
rest, and bowled more profoundly than any
of the others.

As soon as Miss Midharst was seated
]\'Ir. Grey crossed at the back of the vacant
chair and sat down upon the left of it.
Upon Grey's left sat Mr. Shaw, the
deceased baronet's lawyer. On Miss
Midharst's right sat Mrs. Grant. Dr.
Hardy, who had attended the funeral, wa
present by particular request. The old
layer, whose hands were tremulous,
closed his eyes up firmly first, pulled his-white
whiskers, shook his white hair, and

looking at Grey, demanded in a feeble
Bliaky voice :

"Is everything now ready for reading
the last will and testament of Sir Alexander
Midharst, deceased, as by him desired?"

For a moment there was no reply.
Then Grey cleared his throat and said,
in soft gentle accents :

"As the heir to the baronetcy and
property did not reply to my notification
of the late Sir Alexander's death, and
therefore was not to be here at the readings
the will, or represented by a solicitor,
he being, I understand, in Egypt, I have
taken it iij^on myself to nominate a
solicitor to lee present on his part. I
have therefore asked Mr. Barring-ton to
be good enough to favour us with lii.s
presence, and watch the interests of the
heir."

An excessively fat and prosperous-looking
young man stood up and lowed

deeply all round, saying, in a ricci oily
voice :

I am proud to represent the heir to
this noble house, this lordly property, and
the glorious family of Midliarst."

Having bowed all round again, he sat
down.

Then Mr. Shaw opened the will, and
began reading it in a weak and quavering
voice.

The will was brief, and the language
straightforward and plain.

The baronet left small legacies to
his servants, and expressed a desire that
Michael might remain in his daughter's
service, until he chose to retire, upon
which he was to receive an annuity
of forty pounds a year, in addition
to the five hundred pounds, payable
within one year from the opening of the
will.

The few other servants kept by the

baronet were left legacies on this scale
in proportion to their positions.

To Mrs. Grant he left a thousand
pounds, coupled with a request that she
would continue to stay with Miss Mid-hast
as her companion as long as Miss
Midharst might wish.

Upon hearing this Mrs. Grant wept,
and put her hand on the girl's hand
and caught the hand, and looked at the
girl with eyes that swore, " Never, never,
will I leave you while I live."

To Dr. Hardy he left two hundred
and fifty, and to each of the other two
physicians who had attended, one hundred
pounds over and above their proper fees.

To Mr. Shaw he bequeathed five
hundred pounds, over and above his
proper fees, and expressed a hope that
any legal business which had to be done
in connection with his will, his daughter, or
the money, would be intrusted to Mr. Shaw.

To Henry Walter Grey lie bequeathed
the gross sum of five thousand pounds,
over and above all his just claims against
the estate. Two thousand five hundred
of this was to be paid within twelvemonths
of the opening of the will, and
the other two thousand five hundred upon
the expiration of Grey's guardianship. This
was bequeathed in grateful remembrance
of many years of careful guardianship of
the testator's fortune in the past, and inconsideration
of the duties and obligations
imposed upon the legatee by the will.

The next clause announced that he
left and devised and bequeathed to his
daughter Maud, absolutely and for ever,
the residue of his property of all kinds,
sorts, and descriptions whatever, subject
to the bequests above mentioned ; and the
payment of all just debts and demands
for which the testator was liable at the
time of his death ; and the cost of his

funeral, which hitter he desired to be
simple and unostentatious, and yet not unbecoming
the house of which he was head.
The residue was not to be said over to-the
legatee, but held in trust for her
until she had attained the full age of
twenty-two. It was the testator's wish
that his daughter should not marry until
she had attained the full age of twenty-two
: but married or single, to her the
residue was to go when she attained her
twenty-second year. With regard to her
marriage, the testator would make no
restrictions. He felt sure his daughter
would make no unworthy selection, and
she would remember that although the
title and estates were passing away to a
younger branch of the family, she was the
only representative of the elder branch
now surviving. The testator desired that,
should she not marry before her twenty-second
year, she should lean upon her

guardian for advice at any time later than
her twenty - second year. The testator
desired it to be clearly understood that
the guardian's power extended absolutely
only to the property of the residuary
legatee ; and that she, being at the tinie
of executing this will and testament, full
twenty years of age, in all her personal
movements, and in the marrying or not
marrying, or in the choice of a husband,
was free from the greetings of these
presents. That is to say, the guardianship
of the residuary legatee, as constituted
herein, was that of administering her
fortune, and of looking after her welfare,
without, except in the matter of the
property, power of constraint or interference
in matters personal to the residuary
legatee. The testator, however, reposed
the most unlimited confidence in the
guardian, and advised the residuary
legatee to be largely guided in matters
VOL. II. 11

personal hj the advice of the aforesaid
guardian.

Following this paragraph came one
reciting . the property of the deceased man,
the most important passage of it being
this :

'* And such Consols as may be found
registered in my name in the books of
the Bank of England, an account of which,
and the Consols themselves, are in the
custody of Henry Walter Grey aforesaid,
to the value at this date of five hundred
and fifty thousand pounds sterling."

Then came the final paragraph :

And I hereby elect and appoint
Henry Walter Grey, of the Manor House,
Daneford, banker (herein before described
as Henry Walter Grey), executor and
trustee to this my last will and testament,
to hold authority, and to act in all.
matters connected with my property at
his own sufficient discretion, with the

limitations herein aforesaid. And I hereby
select and appoint the same Henry Walter
Grey, of the Manor House, Daneford,
banker, to be and to act as the sole
guardian, with the limitations hereinbefore
set forth, of my only daughter Maud,
herein before described as of the Castle of
Warfinger, the residuary legatee in this
my last will and testament. And to the
aforesaid Henry Walter Grey I leave
the burden of the safe guarding of my
daughter's fortune, and the care of her
orphanhood. I leave to his charge the
savings of half a lifetime, and the last
of a noble house. I pray that, as Henry
Walter Grey may do by them and me,
the God Almighty may do by him.
Amen."

The old solicitor then read out the
formal ending of the will, looked up, shut
his eyes, and said :

That is the only will which has

been found of the late Sir Alexander
Midharst, Baronet, of Warfinger Castle."

He opened his eyes for a moment,
and then shut them ao^ain, adding; while
they were closed :

^^ The will is in my handwriting. I
drew it at the late baronet's dictation
using: almost his identical words."

He turned over the document, and
scrutinised it closely.

There is no codicil or addition of
any kind," bowing to Miss Midharst.

There was a moment's silence, during'
which every one present looked down.

It was only by the most powerful effort
Grey could prevent himself from shouting"
aloud under the intolerable relief. Although
he had expected the will to be
in some such terms, he could scarcely
believe that, after his days and nights of
agonised dread, all had come right. He
felt like one who, after long; durance ina

dim and choking cave, is lifted into a
sunlit flowery valley, over ^Yllicll larks
are singing;, and tlirouo;li which flows a
bright silver stream, along which he may
wander with unquestioned feet.

Now all was secure. This girl and
her whole fortune had, within the past
half-hour, been signed and sealed into
his possession. True, he had no control
over her personal actions. But he soon
should have control, the most potent
of all — the control of husband over wife.
According to the will, she might marry
as soon as she pleased. There was nothing
now in the world to ]Prevent her being
his wife in twelve months.

Nothing to interfere with his marrying
this girl and blotting out the trace of his
crime. Already she liked him. As they
same into that room to hear that will read,
by which he became sole executor, trustee,
and guardian, did she not lean on him ?

Already she liked him. Soon she should
love him. Soon she should many him.

Considering her position, the world
would approve of her marrying ; for she
had no one to protect her but a guardian,,
no kin near enough to take any interest
in her. In her solitary situation, everyone
would approve of her marrying
soon.

There was a rustle, and all the men
rose to their' feet upon perceiving 
in the act of rising.

Grey looked across for a moment at
her, as she stood uj^on the right hand of
the vacant chair.

'she mine!" he thought. ^' She will
be my salvation ! There is nothing now
to keep her from me ! Nothing between
her and me !"

*miss Midharst," said a deep grave
voice at the other side of the table,,
I fear there is no one here who can

introduce me to you, so that I shall be
obliged to introduce myself."

Grey started, and looking across the
table, saw the stranger advancing towards
Miss Midharst.

The banker threw one glance around,
by which he plainly told the other men
that he intended resenting so unwarrantable
an intrusion on the grief and privacy
of the occasion. All his fears had vanished
into air. The only feeling he now experienced
was that a pushing stranger was
seeking to occupy the unwilling attention
of his legally constituted ward, and the
woman who was to be his wife.

Grey crossed the room rapidly at the
back of the vacant chair, and placing
himself beside Miss Midharst, bowed and
offered her his arm.

She took it, and for a second no one
moved.

Maud looked up and saw in front of

her a tall, broad, dark - visaged, Ijlack-
haired, sad-featured man, with dark and
dreamy eyes.

She shrank back slightly, and clung
to the stalwart arm on which her small
white hand lay.

I beg your pardon, sir," said the
banker blandly, " I shall be happy to
place myself at your disposal when I
have led Miss Midharst to her private
apartment. May I request you to take
a seat until then ? "

"Thank you, sir. Your name is
-Grey."

'^ It is. And as you have heard the
will, you know I am in a position to
tell you that anything you have to
say to Miss Midharst may, under present
circumstances, be more reasonably said tome."
The banker advanced his foot, and
Maud, still clinging to him, moved to go.

Again the stranger lowed low to Miss

Midharst. It was impossible, without
downright rudeness, for Grey to move
Tintil the stranger should have recovered
an erect attitude, as evidently there was
.something else he wished to say.

'miss Midharst," at last the stranger
said, " I am William Midharst, your
cousin ; " he held out his hand to her.

"The new baronet!" murmured the
-servants, in whispers. All the men looked
keenly at the tall dark young man, who
with a grave smile stood holding out a
brown right hand to the fair, shrinking,
timid, pale, beautiful girl.

She took her white trembling hand off
the banker's arm and held it out to him.
She was cold and trembling, and she felt
axis though she should faint.

He took the fingers of her white hand
respectfully between the fingers and thumb
■of his own brown hand, and bending low
with the homage of a chivalric age, and

the simple sincerity of our own, kissed
the white hand he held. .Then, inclining
his head towards the banker, he said
gravely :

*will you, sir, ujDon this occasion of
my first meeting my cousin, forego your
privilege, and allow me to take her to
her apartment 1"

The mind of the banker was dazed
and paralysed, and in silence he signified
his assent.

Placing the hand on the black sleeve
of his left arm. Sir William Midharst,
of Warfinger Castle, led his orphan cousin
Maud down the room, and through the
doorway.

As they disappeared Grey's face
shrivelled up. Fortunately for him all
present were too much occupied with the
new baronet's arrival to notice him.

The whole fabric of Grey's rearing
seemed to topple over and tumble into

dust as these two figures went through
the doorway. He was guardian it was
true, but his power did not extend to his
forbidding her to take that arm, to go
through that doorway with that young
man, to walk up to the altar-rails with
any man whatever.

'' Idiot that you have been, Alexander
Midharst ; you deserve nothing better
than that your daughter's fortune should
be lost !"

Then he stood a long time immovable.

At last the thought of the stake he
had put down in this game rushed in
upon his mind, and he was once more on
the top of that Tower of Silence, under
the dull sky with the Dead.

He now stood in the awful solitude of
blood. He strode on through a realm of
endless silence and limitless sand. For
him there could never be any change
here ; always that maddening silence —

always those unconquerable leagues of
sand. Never any variety except

He suddenly started and shouted.
There lead been a change in the monotony ;
for over his shoulder — not the one at
which Maud had stood — over the right
shoulder suddenly peered the face of his
murdered victim.

With a pang of apprehension he became
alive to his situation, and looked
suddenly round. He was alone. All the
others had left, and it was growing dark.

COUSIN MAUD " " NO ; MAUD."

When the young baronet readied the
corridor he said in a grave sedate voice :

I knew your name was Maud ; and
I knew your poor father did not like me.
I am sure you will believe me when I
tell you I never saw him in all my life,
never saw you until to-day, and never
gave him any reason I know of to dislike
me. It so happened I was heir to the
property ; it so happened I was poor.
I could not help the former ; I tried todo
all I could to help the latter, and took
an appointment in Egypt. It was such
an appointment as a gentleman might

take. You, Cousin Maud, had no feeling
against me because I happened to be next
to the title and estates ?"

Oh, no," answered the girl quickly,
in a tremulous half-frightened voice, without
looking up.

And now that I have come to see
you, cousin, you have no feeling against
me?"

Not the least. Why should I ?"

When you did not know who I was,
you refused to see me to-day. Now
that you know I am your cousin, the
nearest relative you have on earth, will
you do me a favour ? "

^' If I can, I will."

*' Walk with me a while in the
grounds ; I have much to say to you.
The air will do you good, and wdiat I
have to say will keep your mind off the
sad business of to-day. Grant me this
favour, if you do not feel too weak."

"I do not feel weak ; only — only
confused and frightened. I will go with
you."

They had both halted at the foot of
the grand staircase. She looked up into
this face as she spoke. She had never
seen one of her house but her father
before. It was strange to think this man
should be so unlike her father and yet
related to her. He spoke as if he meant
to be kind, and in any case she ought
not to refuse so slight a favour to the
only member of her father's family now
living. As a child she had stood in
mortal terror of this cousin — this cousin
whom her father never lost an opportunity
of abusing. But when she had grown
older, she knew the young man did not,
because he happened to be heir-presumptive
to the property and title, deserve on that
account solely to be vilified. Her father
lead always led her to think that towards

lier this cousin William would behave
brutally, simply because lier father had
racked the property to the very uttermost
penny. It had seemed natural that the
next tenant for life would regard the
acts of her father with strong resentment ;
and, taking into account the object for
which the property had been swept clean,
she felt William Midharst, when he came
to be Sir William, could not look on her
in a friendly spirit. But now that the
worst had arrived, and he as a factor in
the worst, it did not seem that he should
have received such elaborate consideration,
or have been the cause of any great dread.
He was dark and gloomy-looking, but then
he had been very polite.

While these thoughts were jostling one
another in Maud Midharst's head, she was
in her own room, preparing for that stroll
with her cousin. The young baronet was
walking softly up and down the great

hall, and Ayant Grey was standing transfixed
by a new terror in the library the two
young people had just left.

Presently Maud came down the great
staircase. The young baronet looked up
and saw a sweet, white, childish face, full
of sadness in the midst of crape, and beneath
that face a lithe graceful figure, moving
as though the ground had nothing to do
with her movements, her step was so free
and light.

My cousin Maud," thought the young
man, ^^ is too fair for health. Little cousin
Maud — lonely little orphan cousin Maud —
looks as if she and her father will not
be long separated. I hope she is sufficiently
clad. But then I must not forget I amused
to swarthy faces and warmer skies.
My little cousin Maud may live to wear
a brighter look and gayer colours."

She was at his side now. All the
other women in the world were nothing

VOL. II. 12

to him. She was his cousin. Back to
the first litigious Sir John they both traced
their lines — the great family of Midharst,
which had come down through the noble
house of Stancroft. His cousin Maud.
They two were the last of the great
house, they two. She, the pale, fragile,
griefful lady, with the wonderful soft eyes,
and shy half-frightened air and the pure
young beauty. Good Heavens, how she
sanctified the place ! How she illumined the
past ! All the ladies of the Midharst house
but her were dead : their portraits hung
here and there upon the walls of this
old historic castle. There was on the walls
no lady of the Midharst line as beautiful
as Maud. They were all dead and passed
away. Around the walls hung the extinguished
lamps of beauty in the Midharst
house ; here by his side stood the lamp
clear and burning bright, the most beautiful
and the only burning lamp in the

house of Midharst — this beautiful cousin
Maud.

'' Cousin Maud," lie said.
She looked up into his swarthy face,
into his deep dark eyes, to show that
she was attending, but did not speak.

"When I touched your hand first in
^\\ my life, a little while ago, there were
many present, and you gave me your
hand ; it may have been merely to show
those around us that you recognised meas
the head of the family — the family of
two. Will you now give me your hand
as a private sign that you know of no
reason why we should not be friends ? "

She held out her hand to him. Not
only was he not to be unfriendly, but he
was going to be very kind, she thought.

He took her hand, and bending over
it kissed the glove, and once more
placing that hand on his arm, led her
into the open air of the courtyard, under

the great brown archway, and out into
the shrubless bare grounds.

When they had got a little distance
from the castle he broke silence :

^^That tall good-looking gentleman,
your guardian, Mr. Grey, was very nearly
right in saying I was in Egypt ; I have
just returned. I have been only a few
days in England. Upon my arrival I
heard what had taken place, and came on
as soon as possible. I got to Daneford
last night, and put up at the Warfinger
Hotel. It was then too late to call upon
you. Cousin Maud. I did not send up
my name to-day, because I feared, if you
knew my name, you might, out of respect
to the old feeling, refuse to see me''

He paused a moment as if to arrange
his thoughts.

She, without raising her eyes from
the ground, murmured,

You were very kind."

Lie did not in saying this mean ^ he
had displayed kindness in his past action,
but that he was displaying kindness to

her now.

He understood her, and went on :
^a shall have to go back to Egypt
immediately, and I cannot possibly return
to England for some months. I shall be
here again as soon as I can. Before I go
.away I want to establish a great friendship
with you. I want you to make up
your mind to disregard anything you
have ever heard to my disadvantage, and
look upon me as the head of the family
of two, and your best and truest friend.
I want you to promise me that at once,
to-day— before I leave you— now."

His manner was very fervid and
intense as he came towards the end. At
the word 'now" he ceased to walk.

She looked up. What a change had
taken place in that placid, grave, sad

face of a few moments before ! The dark
eyes were full of fire, the delicate nostrils
moved, and the swarthy cheek was
flushed. He rose up over her, tall and
broad and fierce and strong. She trembled,
but could not take her eyes from
his. She had never met any man like
this before. He fixed her attention upon
him and upon his words beyond the
power of her control. She was frightened
and surprised.

'^ What am I to do ? " she asked
fearfully.

You are always to look on your
cousin William Midharst as your best
friend. Will you promise me that here
and noah "? "

Yes."

You promise."

I promise."

^^ Very well, that is settled," he said
in a quick way. " Let us move on. Now

I licave other things to say to you of as
great importance. You must listen to me
very patiently. When you do not understand
what I say, you are to stop me
and ask me to explain. Won't you ? "

'' Yes," very timidly.

"Now, from the little I have seen of
your guardian, I like him very well, and
I have no doubt no wiser selection could
have been made. Those people I met in
Daneford had something to say about events
here, and every one who spoke said good
things of him ; when every one says good
things of a man he must be a good man.
Do you like your guardian ? I believe you
know him some time ? "

I know him since I was a child and
I like him very much. No one could have
been more kind or considerate than he ;
and I know my poor father had the greatest
confidence in him."

She said this with more animation and

earnestness than she had yet shown. Her
gratitude to Grey was profound, and she
did not wish her cousin should be for a
moment in doubt of her feelings in the
matter.

That is all rio^ht : I am delighted
to hear you say so. Now Mr. Grey has
full and complete control of your fortune ;
that is a mere trifle."

She looked up at him in some surprise
and said,

I understood that Mr. Grey had a
large sum."

I did not mean that your fortune is
a mere trifle, but that the fact of its being
in his hands rather than any other honest
man's is a mere trifle. What I wished to
•do was to draw a contrast between the
comparatively triviality of the guardianship
of your money compared with that of
another thing."

His eyes were now fixed, staring ahead ;

and although she looked up into his face,
he did not glance down, and she could
gather no information through her eyes.

She said, in a tone of faint wonder :

"I do not know what you mean. My
father always told me I should have
nothing but the money."

Still keeping his eyes fixed ahead, he
said, in a dull, slow, dreamy way :

Well, there was one thing in your
father's gift, for a time at all events, and
the will gives it to no one. Supposing
the guardianship of that thing were in
your gift now, would you, considering
that I am the only relative you have
alive, and that you have agreed to look
on me as your best friend, — would you, I
ask, give me the guardianship of that
thing ? "

But is there any such thing ? I
certainly never heard of it," she said, in
greater wonder.

*' There is such a thing."

And it is in my power to give you
the guardianship ? " she asked.

*^ Absolutely, Cousin Maud."

And you really wish to take the
troublesome care of this, whatever it maybe
? "

I do."

Then I give it to you freely."

^' And you will give me as absolute
control over it as if it had been formally
made over to my care by the will of
your dead father ? "

He had now paused in his walk once
more, and was standing looking down on
her, not with the fiery eyes of a few
moments ago, but with deep, careful,
anxious eyes, as though matter of great
moment depended on her answer.

Under his steady glance she felt her
head grow confused and hot. She did
not know quite clearly what was passing.

but she knew he had asked her to do
something, and she must do it. *' I
promise," she said, very faintly.

This time he spoke with the most
elaborate clearness of articulation, slowly
and with emphasis :

"You promise to make over to me
the guardianship of the thing to which I
allude as absolutely as though it had been
made over to me by your father's will."

I do."

Then it is the guardianship of my
cousin, Maud Midharst."

The guardianship of me ! But Mr.
Grey is my guardian ! "

"Yes and no. He is the guardian of
you' fortune absolutely. But with respect
to your own personal action you are left
free. You are recommended by your father
to apply to him for advice, but you are
not bound to do any one thing he asks
you, or to accept his advice beyond money

matters. In all matters except money
you are to consult me. You have promised,
and you will do so ? " ^

I will keep my j)i'omise, but it is
strange." She dropped her eyes, and again
the two moved forward.

His face gradually lost its intense expression,
and assumed its usual dreamy
far-away look. In a few moments he
spoke :

"Yes, it is strange, and to me. Cousin
Maud, very sweet, that I should be ample
to do the least thing for you. You must
now rely on me wholly. You must take
no important step without consulting me.
You are as much under my charge now
as if you were my daughter. ]\[y only
regret in the matter is that I am compelled
to leave England almost immediately, Jut
I shall be lack in as short a time as possible
; in the meanwhile you may look to
Mr. Grey for the advice you want from

day to day. But if anything of importance
should arise, you must write and tell
it to me, and I will write back and tell
you what to do. You understand?"

"Yes. You are very good to one you
know so little of."

Know so little of ! Know so little
of ! Do I not know you through the
history of our house ? Is it because we
never met, and I never set foot on the
Island before, that we do not know much
of one another ? When I look at those
old walls ; when I think of the great
house of Fleurey from which we are both
come ; when I think that you and I bear
the one name, and that the very walls
which protected your infancy and girlhood
are mine in my manhood ; when I learned
that my cousin Alexander had died, and
left my cousin Maud alone in the world
with a huge fortune and no natural guardian
but myself; when I saw my cousin

Maud, and found lier pale and timid and
tearful — I knew lier through the past and
in the present ; and, Cousin Maud, with
the help of Heaven and a resolute will, I
shall know her in the future, to the last
hour I can be of the least service to her.
Why, child, I was horrified to think of
you all alone and unfriended, save for the
friendship of a middle-aged busy man, dio
had no natural claim upon the privilege
of your safe-guarding. I feared something
might come between you and me to prevent
my getting close to you as I am now,
in your confidence, and in the consequence
of your promise."

She had raised her eyes to his after
the first few sentences. She had noted
again the flush in the swarthy cheek, again
the fire in the large dark eye. She caught
the voice of passionate chivalry that rang
out through his words, clear and sharp as
the voice of the cornet when it alone holds

up the theme to the melodious confluence
of harmonious strains flowing from orchestra
and stage.

"Cousin Maud "

"No; Maud."

Maud."

They paused again. He was still in
thought, and looked into her eyes, not
with the sight of intelligence, but with
the sight of the physical eye merely.

He had aroused her confidence, her
gratitude, her interest. She was looking
at him with as much astonishment as
though, upon turning her back, she found
not the Weeslade and the Plain of Spears,
but the streams and fertile land that lie
around Damascus, and the long low line
of the city's ruined walls against the
northern sky.

Mutely she held out her hand to him.
He took it in silence, shook off* his absorbed
manner, smiled softly on her, then the two

resumed their walk. From that moment,
from that hand-pressure, from that smile,
from the soft sigh which greeted that
smile, and the firm breathing and measured
step with which he resumed the walk, it
was plain their friendship had been sealed.
He knew he had inspired her with confidence,
and she knew she felt faith in this
new cousin-friend, who had been a source
of disquiet to her in her childhood, and
was destined to be a source of sustentation
and strength to her in her maiden years.

For a while they walked on in silence.

*sand now, Maud, there is some detail
I wish to speak to you about."

"Yes."

You will of course continue to live
here "

But I am no longer " she interrupted.


"You will, of course, continue to live
here. I shall not set out for Egypt fora

few clays, and in that time I will see
that all things are put in order for you
here. I understand that the lady who
sat upon your right is the Mrs. Grant
alluded to in the will ? "

Yes. She is my only friend "

"Maud, your only friend!"

I mean, of course, William, after
you."

That's a good child. Call me William
always, and learn to think of Mrs. Grant
as your second friend. I hope she will
continue to stay with you. Do you think
she will?"

Oh, yes ; she has promised. She is
and has been a great and a good friend
to me. I do not know what I should
have done all through the last few
months but for her. She has promised
to stay with me as long as I like, and
I know I shall like her to stay with me
always."

VOL. IT. 13

He looked fixedly at the .slender
graceful figure hj this side, the figure of
the only woman in the world in whom
he felt interest — the interest of blood.
The idea that he was head of the family
felt new to him. He had often tried
to realise it before, but never until
now did he know what it was to have
any one dependent upon his protection ;
and the person so depending being his
beautiful cousin Maud, the feeling was
not only new, but sweet and purifying
as well.

At length he said : ''I wish I had
not to go abroad ; but, Maud, when I
came away from Egypt I had intended
to return, and left matters in such a
state that my not going lack would cause
the greatest confusion, and I must not,
because I have now become rich, treat
badly the office so useful to me when I
was poor. But I will 1)e back to see

that you are all right as soon as ever I
san. Has your guardian, Mr. Grey, any
sons?"

*' No. He has no child. He never
had a child."

"He is married, of course?"

*' Yes, but he lost his wife in a dreadful
accident that happened to a river steamboat
some months ago."

'then he is a widower?"

Yes."

Sir William's brows fell, and he bent
his eyes on the ground for a few seconds.
He raised his head, and, partly closing
his lids, looked dead ahead for a few
seconds more.

Your father's will was dated the 9th
of June in this year. Had Mr. Grey lost
his wife then?"

No. Not, I think, for some months
after. Now I remember, Mr. Grey was
here at the moment the steamboat, on

which his wife was, blew ujd. I remember
now. That clay we sent for Mr. Grey ;
Sir Alexander was ravine' about him and
other things, and Mr. Grey was on the
Island when the vessel blew np. That
night father became delirious finally. I
now recollect it all."

'* So that your father, while in possession
of his senses, did not hear Mr.
Grey had lost his wife ?"

No. Does it make any difference ?
Cannot a widower be guardian in a will ? "
She dreaded to lose the protection she
had been taught to rely on.

Oh, indeed, he can. It makes not
the least difference in the eyes of the law
whether a man has a wife or not, as far
as his appointment of guardian in a will
goes. I was asking merely for information's
sake. And now, Maud, I think
you had better go in. It is getting dark
already, and I should like to have a little

conversation with your guardian — your
holier guardian — before I leave. By the
way, at first I was puzzled to think why
Sir Alexander did not leave yourself under
the absolute control of Mr. Grey, but I
think I guess the reason. When the will
was made you were old enough to take
ware of yourself in all ordinary everyday
matters, and his feelings would not allow
a daughter of his, a daughter of this
house, to be under the control of a banker.
I know that your father was a little
peculiar, and had no friends or associates
■of his own rank. He made Mr. Grey
guardian of Miss Midharst's fortune, but
not of Miss Midharst herself. It is
my lucky chance to occupy the latter
flattering position. Good - bye, now,
Maud. I am staying at the '' Warfinger,"
in Daneford. I shall come over every
day of the few I am in this place to
see you."

They had now arrived at the library-door.
It opened slowly, and a man
appeared on the threshold, and stood still
as if transfixed. Neither of the others
noticed the presence of the man in the
doorway.

Sir William went on : " Our meeting:
was very formal, and our greetings were
very formal too. But we are good
friends now, and loyal cousins. Cousins
may be more affectionate, Maud, than
strangers in blood. Good-day, Maud,"
said he, stooping and kissing her white
forehead lightly. " Good-bye ; and remember
to take great care of yourself,
and rely on me."

She moved slowly away.

He turned briskly to the library-door,
and seeing the man on the threshold, said
gravely :

*^ Mr. Grey, I am glad to have met
you, and shall feel much obliged if you

will favour me with a few moments'
conversation."

Without saying a word Grey re-entered
the library ; the baronet followed him.

THE TWO Guardians.

When the two men found themselves in
the library it was quite dusk outside, and
a deep gloom filled the room. There was
no one else in the place, and no candle
or lamj^ illumed the dark and cavernous
recesses of shadows lying here and there
remote from the great window.

I will not detain you long, Mr. Grey.
Do you wish for lights?"

Not at all. Sir William."

This man, who had come in the
morning as a stranger, and whom he,
Grey, promised himself he would quickly
eject if he made himself unpleasant or

pushed himself upon Miss Midharst after
the reading of the will, was now treating
him, Grey, as a guest in that house ! And
not only that, but he had pushed himself
upon Miss Midharst, and seemed to have
got on very well with her, judging from
the parting which had just taken place
between them. The tables were turned
on him. Grey, and the less light there
was to expose his discomfiture the
23leasanter for him. The gold was still
leading, still leading, but only by a head ;
and the lead was gaining, hair's-breadth
by hair's-breadth, every minute.

*' Suppose we sit near the window,
where the most light is," said Sir William.

They both moved towards the window,
and, having taken chairs, the younger
man began :

'' In the first place, Mr. Grey, let me
thank you most cordially for all your
great kindness and care shown to Miss

Midharst during this troublesome time.
I assure you I shall never forget the
debt of gratitude I owe you for your
generosity and devotedness under the
trying circumstances."

I feel greatly flattered by your
approval, Sir William. I have tried in
my humble way to do my duty, and if I
have failed I have failed thrush no want

o

of desire to do my duty by the child
of — if I may be permitted to call him
so — my old friend Sir Alexander Midharst."

There was a strange mixture of emotions
in Grey's voice as he spoke. Sarcasm and
fear mingled freely, and the young man
was for a moment in doubt as to how he
should proceed. Mr. Grey, now alone and
in the dark, did not impress him quite so
favourably as earlier in the day, when
others were present, and when the man's
face and fii^urc could be seen.

The young man paused a while, and

made up his mind not to inquire into
the constituents of that tone if it were
not repeated.

It," he thought, " may have been
accidentaL"

Aloud he said, ^^ I did not come into
this neighbourhood until last night, and
since then every one I met seems to
have done nothing but sing your praise.
All the people at the " Warfinger Hotel "
have spoken in unstinted terms of respect.
You must not think they knew who I
was, for I gave no name. I was and am
greatly delighted at this, for I hope from
it you and I may get on well together, out
of consideration to my cousin's comfort."

^' I sincerely trust we may always get
on well together. I certainly will not
deliberately risk losing your good opinion."

This time there was nothing unusual
or disquieting in the tone. Grey had
himself caught the import of his own

voice ill his previous reply, and felt he
had made a great mistake. It was very
hard though for him, Grey, a man of his
position and standing, to sit there and he
blandly approved of by this young man —
hy this young man who seemed to take
his own success in all things as a foregone
conclusion. He, Grey, must phil his cards
carefully, and above all things he must
not show the direction in which it was
necessary for him to force the game.
But he was in the dark ; and if denied
the expression of his feelings to his voice,
he might allow them to run riot over his
face, and it was a relief to frown and scowl
and sneer in silence.

I have first of all a favour to ask
you, Mr. Grey."

I am sure, Sir William, if it is in
my power to grant it, I shall be only too
happy to do so." This was said in the
banker's most urbane accents.

Well, I understand that your bank
has kept the Midharst account for a longtime
; will you be kind enough to accept
the keeping of mine?"

'' The Midharst has been the most
important of all our accounts for a longtime,
and we shall feel honoured and
delighted if you will favour us with
yours."

There was nothing very dreadful about
this. It seemed as if the young baronet
would turn out as confiding and uninquisitive
as the old one. So stir this
looked promising.

'rand now," said Sir William, 'will
you do me another favour ?"

If," returned the banker, in a gay
tone of badinage, "the second favour at
all resembles the first, I think I could
go on granting you such favours all the
night."

This young man was not only simple

and confiding, but downright amiable and
sociable.

Yon must not think I am extravagant
when I have said what I am going
to say."

My dear Sir William, if you want
any money, you draw on us, as a matter
of course, for any sum you may require.
That is an affair of ordinary business, not
favour; and it was quite unnecessary for
you to say anything about it."

Things were growing more comfortable
as they got along.

Why, I should not wonder," thought
Grey, with a smile that almost developed
into a laugh, — " I should not wonder if
he gave away the bride."

But the sum I require is large."

*draw on us for it in the morning."

*' I don't think you would say so if
you knew the sum."

Try us. Draw on us tomorrow."

'^ Twenty thousand?"

Only ? I thought the sum was a
serious one ! You really must not think
of attaching any importance to such a
matter. My dear Sir William, you can
draw on us for fifty thousand without
notice. If you have the least occasion
for more than fifty, just tell me four days
before you draw, so that there may be
no chance of a disappointment to you."

Grey thought, " Clearly this young
man is in debt. How lucky ! When a
man is in debt and wants money badly

he will do " He paused, thought of

his own case, shuddered, and whispered in
the innermost solitude of the desert of
crime where he and his spectre dwelt, —
"he will do anything — murder!"

You mush not think I am in debt.
I do not owe a shilling. I never did."

*' That is highly creditable in a young
man of your expectations," said Grey, ina

tone of high admiration. To himself
lie said, "I'm sorry it isn't for debts lie
wants the money. What can he want
the money for ? Nothing good, I'll swear."

You see, Mr. Grey, I may seem
abrupt to you, but I do not mean to
be so."

"I assure you I cannot guess why you
for a moment imagine I could find reason
to think you abrupt."

Ah, well, yes ! What I said about
abruptness has rather to do with what I
am about to say than with anything I
have yet said. I am very quick to decide
upon things, and very prompt to act, and
I may say without boasting that once I
take a thins: in hand I usually make it
turn out as I wish ; I like to do things
that seem difficult ; but I never undertake
anything when I do not clearly sec my
way to realisation."

'' Most useful, positively invaluable

quarries," said Grey, in a tone of admiration
; mentally lie thought, " If what
this man says of himself is true, my life
depends upon the direction this cursed
activity of his takes."

I have to leave the country for a
time. I must go back to Egypt for some
months."

Indeed ! " ejaculated Grey. He could
scarcely repress a cry of joy. To be rid,
and rid quickly, of this dreamy energetic
man was a mercy for which he did not
dare to hope. ''Do you leave England
soon ? " Grey, asked in a tone of gentle
sorrow.

"In a few days. Ten days at the
outside, and before I leave I want the
money, and to put the thing I have
decided upon in trim."

Can I be of any further assistance
to you than financially ? "

Yes, I think you can, if you will be
VOL. II. 14

kind enough. You take a great interest
in Miss Midharst ? "

Aha ! " exclaimed Grey, as though
he had been struck. The question of the
young man caused the terrible importance
of Miss Midharst to present itself
suddenly to his mind. He saw at one
glance the stakes he had put down, and
the prize for which he was playing ; and
thus coming suddenly upon a bird's-eye
view of his position, he received a violent
shock, which forced the exclamation from
him.

"What's the matter?" cried the young-man,
rising quickly and approaching the
banker. "Are you hurt?"

Pray excuse me. It is nothing, Sir
William. Do be seated. I am very sorry
for having alarmed you. Some little time
ago I injured my knee — as I thought at
the time, slightly ; but it often gives mea
single pang of most acute pain, and in

crossing my legs just as you spoke that pang
came, and I could not but cry out, if my
life depended on not doing so. I know
you will excuse me. Sir William ; the pain
is all gone. I think you were saying,
when I so unhappily interrupted you, that
you and I take a deej^ interest in Miss
Midharst."

You are sure you are all right V

Yes, quite sure."

Did you ever hear the death-scream
of a horse ?"

No, never."

Your shout frightened me ; it was
like that. Well, as I was saying, we both
take an interest in Miss Midharst. You
know the way Sir Alexander treated this
place. I heard of it, and to-day I see it."

Yes ; it is naked enough."

Well, it is not a fit place for Miss
Midharst to reside in now."

"I have been thinking, of course, of

SfettiiiQ; a suitable house for her until weare
able to buy or build one."

Oh, I don't mean anything of that
kind. She is to stay here."

Stay here ! You do not know that
from me, Sir William. It is not my intention.
My intention was to place my
own house at her disposal, and live in my
town house."

'^ Oh, but it is all settled : she is ta
stay here."

All settled ! All settled. Sir William,
and by whom '? "

By Miss Midharst and me."

But — but — " Grey was trembling allover
now, he knew not why — " but, Sir
William, one Avould think Miss IMidharst's
guardian might have been consulted on
the matter before all was settled."

I assure you he was."

But I pledge you my word, Sir
William, this is the first I have heard of it."

'' My dear Mr. Grey, there is some
mistake. You surely do not imagine you
are Miss Midharst's guardian?"

Then, in the name of Heaven," cried
Grey feebly, '^ if I am not, who is?"

'you! But the will does not mention
your name ! "

Nor yours, as guardian of her person.
You will take charge of Miss Midharst's
fortune, as by will appointed. I will take
charge of Miss Midharst herself, by position
as head of the house. You did not catch
the full drift of the meaning of the
will. I paid particular attention to that
paragraph."

No doubt you are right. Sir William.
I did not pay particular attention to that
paragraph. I gathered that I was the only
guardian named, and I concluded the conditions
were the usual ones."

It was with the utmost difficulty Grey

could prevent himself from betraying this
conflicting passions. Now came personal
anger against the young and determined
baronet ; now despair at the thought of
having Maud removed from his personal
custody. Sir Alexander had certainly given
him to understand that he, Grey, was to
be guardian to the girl ; and here was he
after all he had done and risked, after he

had died his hands in blood Bah I

that kind of thing would drive him mad.
He must keep calm now if he did not
wish to hang next month.

The young man continued : " That
twenty thousand I want for putting this
place to rights. I see already what I wish
done to the grounds ; before I leave I shall
know what I want done to the buildings
and furniture."

By-and-by, I daresay," thought Grey,
*' you will find out what you want done
with me."

The interview lasted little longer, and
nothing of importance followed. As Grey
went home that night he thought :

He will be months away. I will be
all these months here. Before he can be
back she shall be mine. I know it, I feel
it. I am not now very nice in the means
I employ. She shall be mine before he
returns by — some means or other."

THE INDEFINITE PRESENT.

The morning after the funeral Mrs. Grant
and Maud walked up and down one of
the long, silent corridors for an hour. The
evening before, when the widow and the
young girl sat together in the firelight,
Maud had told the other the main features
of the facts in the interview between
herself and Sir William. Beyond expressing
a guarded and general approval of the
baronet, Mrs. Grant said little. She had
been too tired, and Maud too exhausted from
fretting and anxiety, to allow of close
inquiry or elaborate statement. Now they
were less fatigued, the worst day of the

bereavement had passed, and they were
quietly discussing matters.

You know, Maud, my dear, no matter
how kind Sir William may be to you,
it will not do for you to forget Mr. Grey,"
said Mrs. Grant, very gravely. " You
must not think of defying him or going
to law with him, or anything of that
sort.

Indeed, Mrs. Grant, I am thinking
of nothing of the kind," replied the girl,
looking with troubled eyes and anxious
face at her only female friend.

'' Because you know," continued the
woman, without heeding the interruption
or the appealing face — '^ you know very
well the Greys have served the family
faithfully for many years ; and now the
present Mr. Grey has sworn to serve you,
and to take care of you, and to be good
and kind to you ; and I am sure he will ;
for though he is not such a gentleman

by birth as your father or Sir William,
still he's a most respectable man."

The widow had the feminine trick of
taking the bit in her teeth and going
straight on, no matter who pulled right
or who pulled left.

"You may rely on my doing nothing
of the kind. How can you think I
would !" cried the girl fervently.

Yes, but you mustn't," repeated the
widow vehemently. " You must not
throw over the friend of years for a man
you never saw until yesterday."

You ought not to say I am going
to do anything so wicked — indeed you
ought not. But remember that the man
I met for the first time yesterday was my
cousin, and the head of the Midharsts."

But your father never liked him."

"My poor father never knew him."

But he could have known him if he
liked, and he didn't."

That was prejudice."

^* Maud !" cried the widow, in a tone
of reproach.

The girl burst into tears.

I did not mean to say anything disrespectful
; but I can't bear to think my
cousin insincere."

Mrs. Grant pressed the girl in her
arms, and said :

*' You must not cry ; you must not
weep, my love. I did not mean you
had been disrespectful to your father's
memory. Heaven forbid ! But you must
not be too hasty, and like everyone
at first sight. That will never do fora
young heiress who has no right
guardian."

The girl ceased to weep, and said in
an unsteady voice :

But I never told you I liked him."

You do like him, Maud ; you know
you do."

How could I like him in one
meeting ?"

But, Maud, you do like him, and
that is why I feel so uneasy."

Indeed I don't like him. I am afraid
of him : he makes me feel smaller and
helpless. I never feel helpless when Mr.
Grey is near me, for he can always
tell me what to do ; but I feel as
if I must do what my cousin says,
and after only one meeting too. I was
ashamed to confess this until you made
me."

Her luminous candid spirit looked out
of the large soft eyes into the eyes of the
woman.

Mrs. Grant stole her arm round Maud's
waist, and for a while both walked on in
silence. At length Mrs. Grant spoke :

*' I am glad to hear that."

"To hear what?" asked Maud, in a
tone of abstraction.

That you take no interest in Sir
William."

"What!" with a start. The eyes of
the mi were once more fixed on the eves
of the widow. '' I did not say that. On
the contrary, he does interest me."

Mrs. Grant looked bewildered, and
glanced helplessly around her, as if seeking
someone to bear out what she was
about to say.

Why, child, you told me a moment
ago that you did not like him, and that
he frightens you ! "

'' That is true, but a lion frightens
me, and I can't say that I like lions ; but
they interest me more than a King Charlie."

Maud smiled at the bewilderment of
the other.

But, my dear," said Mrs. Grant, with
a look of grave trouble in her eyes, " what
you say about lions and King Charlie is
all nonsense. When you have a King

Charlie you play with him, and feed him
out of your hand. When you have a
lion, you look at him through the bars
of a cage. Besides, Maud, it is absurd
and romantic to think of an English
baronet as a lion. Suppose he was a
lion, and he got loose, what should you
do ? "

^' Eun away as fast as I could," answered
the girl, with a faint laugh.

'' But if he caught you ? "

'^ Oh, if he caught me I don't think I
could do much."

*^ There now, Maud, I told you so."

Mrs. Grant had not told Maud anything
about her chance of not being able, single-handed,
to defend herself against a lion.
When she said, ^' I told you so," she had
suddenly lost sight of the monarch of
the forest, and come upon the mental
image of the baronet of the Island, in
whom this girl had admitted she took an

interest, which, in the illustration afForded
by the lion, proved to be full of the gravest
danger.

Miss Midharst had forgotten the baronet
in the allegory, and was thinking only
of the lion ; so that when Mrs. Grant
triumphantly said, " I told you so," Maud
believed Mrs. Grant was contemplating
the same image as herself — that is, her
own disappearance down the lion's throat.
So that Maud smiled and said :

Fortunately there are very few lions
in this part of the world, and one very
seldom gets loose."

On the contrary, there are very
many lions in this part of the country,
and they all go about seeking whom they
may devour."

Michael the servant entered, and
announced, '' Sir William Midharst and
Mr. Grey."

You will see Mr. Grey first, of

course, Maud?" said Mrs. Grant, in a low
voice.

Miss Midharst looked perplexed, and
by way of reply said :

"Why?"

Oil, you will surely see your guardian
before a man you met only yesterday?"

Don't you think it would look
strange, Mrs. Grant, if I did not see my
cousin before Mr. Grey?"

Certainly not. Mr. Grey was appointed
to take care of you. He lias
known you since you were a child, and
you owe him every respect," said Mrs.
Grant, speaking so low that Michael
could not hear. Her manner was very
earnest.

But Sir William is my kinsman, and,
Mrs. Grant, you and I are his guests in
this place. You really would not have
the owner of this place wait while I, his
guest, received even my guardian ? No ;

my cousin must come first. Michael, ask
Sir William to walk this way."

As soon as the door closed on the
servant, the girl turned to Mrs. Grant,
and said : " Will you see Mr. Grey and
apologise for delaying him ? Please do
Mrs. Grant."

As the new owner of Island Castle
entered the room he met Mrs. Grant
going out.

When greetings and ordinary formalities
had been disposed of, and the cousins
were alone, the man spoke.

I had an interview with Mr. Grey
yesterday evening, and I am glad to say
that I found him most reasonable and
agreeable. I had two things to speak to
him about, neither of which was likely
to please him, and he behaved admirably."

^^ I am sure the more you meet him
the more you will like him," said Maud,
looking up thankfully to her cousin's face.

VOL. II. 15

She felt herself under a personal obligation
to her cousin for his frank approval of so
old and valuable a friend of her father
and herself. The desire to be governed,
common to all women, had suddenly sprung
up in her nature when her cousin spoke
to her last evening of his claims upon
the guardianship of his only cousin, and
she was now greatly relieved to find respect
to the wishes of her father's successor did
not clash with fealty to her father's only
friend, one on whom she looked as having
a strong claim u23on her regard and
attention.

Sir William did not seem to hear her
words. He was standing at the window
looking down on the Weeslade with dreamy
inattentive eyes.

She was seated on a low chair at the
other side of the window. Her eyes were
timidly fixed on his face. He had come
from Egypt, the land of the inexplicable

Pyramids and the inscrutable Sphinx.
To her this cousin William's inner life
was as dark a mystery as the riddle of
the Pyramids, and his face as baffling as
the face of the Sphinx. Until now she
had heard men speak, and had attended
to their words. When he spoke now
she regarded less the words than the
unuttered thoughts attending upon them.
The " How d'ye do ? " of other men
required only a straightforward answer,
without thought beyond the scope of the
question. The " How d'ye do ? " of her
cousin came to her attended by veiled
figures of strange aspect, that gave the
simple question a volume and depth the
mightiest questions never had before.

Was it because he who had been the
ogre of her younger years had become the
protector of her orphan maidenhood, and
the air of the ogre still hung vaguely
around him in her mind ? Was it the

influence of remote consanguinity operating,,
as blood does, between those of the same
stock who have met for the first time
when grown up'? Was it the background
afforded by the Nile and the sacred
crocodile, and the mysterious barren silent
rows of the Pyramids, with those features
of men and women lying hid in folds of
linen and layers of asphaltum, with, save
the eyes, all the features, the lips that
were kissed by lover or mother, still
unchanged, still the same lip, the same
dimple in the cheek, the same curve in
the temple as when Thebes and Memphis-conned
the stars, the Paris and the London
of three thousand years ago, and taught
the world all the world knew ?

Then before her mind rolled forth the
plains of purposeless white sand, overhung
by the plains of unbroken blue sky,
and, blazing in the l)lue sky, the fierce
sun. And here, against the homely

THE INDEFINITE PRESENT. 229

sash of that old familiar window, that
commonplace sash and frame, down which
.she had seen the dreary rain of weary
winter days slide to the sodden ground,
he leaned ; on his face and hands the
brown harvest of Egyptian suns, in his
dark eyes the strange knowledge of awful
arts and rites wrought in labyrinth and in
save by Egypt's ancient priests, and in
is tones the softness of a land where no
waves beat and no winds blow loudly
enough to drown the timid whispers of a
maid.

Are you thinking of Egypt ? " she
asked in a low voice.

No. I am thinking of Maud," he
answered, without moving. Then, rousing
from his reverie, he said : " Yes, Mr. Grey
was most agreeable last night, and I am
sure we shall get on very well together.
One of the things I had to speak to him
about was a matter of business detail.

The other, Maud, was of the first moment,
the arrangement you and I came to
yesterday about my acting as your
personal guardian."

'' What did he say about that?" asked
Maud aloud. She thought he had not
been thinking of Egypt. His mind had
not been far away, as she had supposed,
but close at home, near where they were,
busy with thoughts of her. Was it strange
a man who had that dark sad face, and those
deejj eyes, and those mystic memories, and
so short a knowledge of her, should, while
looking so out of that old familiar window,
think of her, who knew nothing of the
world and was so commonplace ? Was
that strange 1 No doubt, in her, in this
secluded place, and with her hum-drum
life, the objects entering into which were
all around her clad in the threadbare
interest of daily use, it was not strange
that, being who he was, and coming as he

did, she felt a great interest in him. But
that he should concern himself so much
about her was inexplicable. Egypt had
been to her, since first she knew how to
hold a book, the land of her dreams. Her
only wish for travel sprang from a desire
to see the site and monuments of the
race which gave the arts and sciences to
Europe. And here was her cousin William
come back from that land, and, while lost
in a reverie which looked proper to the
country of the Nile, thinking of her, Maud.

The young man paused awhile before
answering her question. Still his face
wore the same abstracted look as he
replied :

"At first Mr. Grey seemed surprised
and shocked. I think it appeared to him
as if he had been slighted. I intended
no slight to him, and I don't think my
manner showed anything of the kind. At
all events, all went well, and he seemed

quite satisfied once the first surprise had
passed. How did he hurt his knee,
Maud ? "

"I do not know. I am very sorry to
hear he has hurt himself. When did it
happen ? "

''He said some time asfo. It 2fave him
dreadful pain last evening. I never shall
forget the shout it wrung from him. It
was like the shout I once heard of a man
who awoke in the jaws of a crocodile."

I never heard anything about it. I
hope it is not serious, and that all he has
been doing for us of late has not made it
worse."

I hope not. By-the-way, he is waiting
to see you, Maud. Shall I tell him
he may come up ? I have told some
tradesmen to be here about this time.
When you have finished with Mr. Grey
come into the courtyard. I shall be there.
I am going to have vases for flowers put

lip, and I want to consult you about
them."

He turned round and glanced down at
lier. The vacant look faded from his eyes,
a deep gentleness stole into them, and from
them spread like light over the rest of his
features as he took her hand, and said, intone
of deep solicitude :

Are you always so white, Maud ?
Are you sure you are well ? "

I am quite well," she answered.

'you must not fret, dear Maud. I
will send Mr. Grey to you. You are more
used to him than me. But you will get
used to me some day very soon, won't
you, child ? "

"Yes."

Mr. Grey and I will take great care
of you. He shall act as my deputy while
I am away, and when I come back I will
take care of you. I will go now ; I do not
intend letting those tradespeople disturb

anything for some time ; I only want to
show them what I mean to have done.
For my sake, Maud, you will not brood ?
Promise me that."

'' I promise."

'' And you will show me where you
would like the vases placed ? "

Yes."

He kissed her hand first and then
her forehead, and left her.

THE TYRANNICAL PAST.

When Mrs. Grant went out of the drawing-room
she sought and found Mr. G-rey
in the waiting-room off the grand entrance-hall.
She closed the door, and going upto
the banker in haste said :

"I want to have a few private words
with you, Mr. Grey."

I am completely at your service, Mrs.
Grant," answered the banker, in his most
amiable manner.

He looked worn and haggard to-day.
The strain was telling on him. He now
knew what sleepless nights were, and days

haunted by the phantoms of memory, and
slight rustling sounds of hideous import.
He had learned to start suddenly and
look hastily over his shoulder. It was
not the dread of the hangman disordered
his peace, hut the faint rustle of a woman's
dress, and the plunge into the darkness
and the sense of suffocation under a burden,
and the strange twanmno; of the arteries in
his temples.

'you know," began Mrs. Grant in an
excited manner, " that I love Miss Mid-hast,
and would do anything I could for
her."

Mrs. Grant had been very much shocked
and excited by what had passed between
Maud and her about Sir William, and
the excitement still survived.

I am cpiite confident of that,"
answered the spanker, with a grave look.
He saw Mrs. Grant had something serious
to say.

AVill you jDromisc me to keep what
I say to yourself ? " she asked quickly.

He jDausecl awhile and looked down.

'^ My position is peculiar," he said.
^' Although I am not Miss Midharst's
guardian in the usual signification of the
word, I really feel bound by my promise
to Sir Alexander to do all I can for her,
and that being so I could not undertake
to keep to myself anything which it might
be to her advantage to disclose."

He said this in his most deliberate
manner, and with his eyes fixed solemnly
on the face of the widow.

'' I know I may trust you, Mr. Grey.
My only reason for asking you not to-sneak
is, that if you mentioned my name
in the matter I should be in an awkward
position."

I promise you not to mention your
name in connection with anything you
may say to me."

That will do. I want to speak about
Sir William Midliarst."

'* The new baronet ! " cried Mr. Grey,
with a start and suddenly intensified
interest.

Yes. Do you know anything of
him *? "

No. Nothing. He has not yet established
his identity, but there can be no
doubt he is the right man. As what you
have to say concerns him, and as I am
under no pledge to guard his interests
(though of course I should not sit still
and see them injured), you may speak
quite freely. I promise to mention what
you say to no one."

They were sitting by the table. As
Mr. Grey spoke he drew his chair closer
to his companion's, and, by his manner,
showed he had sincerely resolved to respect
her confidence, and attend most carefully
to anything she might say.

Have you any idea that Sir William
is in want of money ? "

Mr. Grey started. A more unexpected
or disquieting question could hardly have
been addressed to him. This was the first
time Mrs. Grant had mentioned the word
money to him, and now she uttered it in
connection with this young man who had
already to a great extent come between
him and the heiress. He answered :

I may tell you in strict confidence
he has applied to me for a large sum of
money, and of course I promised it. May
I know your reason for asking 1 "

^' I'll tell you my reason by-and-by.
The money he asked you for is not to
come out of Miss Midharst's fortune ? "

Again Grey started. Then he knit his
brows and braced himself together, and,
fixing his eyes resolutely on the carpet,
answered in a firm voice :

*' No ; I could not think of touching

Miss Miclharst's money for anyone but Miss
Miclharst herself."

He did this best to control himself, still
at the words "but Miss Midharst herself"
he shuddered. Had Mrs. Grant discovered
anything about the Midharst Consols ? She
was the last person of his acquaintance he
would imagine likely to come upon a clue
to the fact. But no one could tell who
might pick up the thread. If he had
known matters would take turns like these
he should never have touched those Consols.
He would have shut the door first. What
a fool, what a poor fool he had been not
to have taken his mother's advice and shut
the door.

But if he wants money he must be
poor i

He will have a fine income now."

Miss Midharst has a large fortune,
Mr. Grey."

'•' Very large."

And you are the guardian of it."

Yes." What on earth was she
driving at ?

Well, I think it only right to tell
you that if Sir William is now in want
of money which is not Miss Midharst's
fortune, he will very soon be in want of
the money which isJ' She rose and fixed
her excited eyes upon him.

He rose too, passed his hand absently
across his brow, grew pale, and said ina
voice of perplexity :

I forget part of it. I forget part
of it. But you know I was looking at
the Witch's Tower of the Castle, the
Tower of Silence, when the steamboat
blew up."

So I have heard," whispered Mrs.
Grant in a tone of awe. The change in
his face was terrible.

And they never found the body of
Bee. They never looked in the right

VOL. II. 16

place. It is on the top of the Tower of
Silence, blown there when the boiler of
the Rodwell burst. I saw the body-blown
up there through the smoke and
steam."

"Mr. Grey! Mr. Grey! are you ill?"
said Mrs. Grant, when she could find her
voice.

Gradually the fixed look left his eyes.
The hands, which had been feebly beating
on the table, ceased to move, the sensation
of tightness left his forehead, and pale
and with a gentle sigh he sank on a
chair.

"Are you ill, Mr. Grey?" asked Mrs.
Grant, in a less alarmed tone now that she
saw his mind was clear again.

He answered feebly :

I have not been very well, and of
late I suffer from sleeplessness, a very bad
thing for a business man, because when
he lies awake at night he is always

thinking of his business, and that wears
one greatly. Did I faint *?"

"No."

"Pray do not ring. I am all right
now. I do not want anything. I feel
quite well again. It was only a passing
weakness. You would greatly oblige me
if you will not speak of what has occurred
to Miss Midharst, or to any one else.
Did I say anything ? "

Something I did not catch. You
spoke of the sad death of Mrs. Grey in
the Rodwell. You said, I think, that
you saw the Rodwell, in which your wife
was, blow up. Really, I was too much
alarmed for yourself to think of what
you said."

Ah," sighed Grey in a tone of profound
relief. " You were telling me something
that interested me very much
when I had the misfortune to interrupt
you. Let me see. What was it?"

His face was gradually regaining its-ordinary
look ; the haggard aspect of a
while ago did not come back so strongly
marked, still he looked worn.

Perhaps yon are not quite well
enough to-day to be troubled with what
may after all be only a wrong guess of
mine. But I feel it strange, when I
come to think of it, that Miss Midharst
should accept a man Sir Alexander did
not like as a guardian, when all knew
Sir Alexander wished you to have all the
power he would give to any one. I
spoke to Miss Midharst, and she certainly
means to take the advice of Sir William
in matters regarding herself. Well, then,
I thought. Sir Alexander has stripped
the land and the town house and this
place, and has rack-rented and injured
the estates, and saved up the money,
with your help, for his daughter. Then
I wondered to myself if Sir William was

in want of money ; for if he is in want
of money, what could be better for him
than to make himself agreeable to Miss
Midharst, insist upon her staying in this
place, become her guardian and — marry
her."

'' Aha ! " exclaimed Mr. Grey in a half
cough, half groan. "But do you think
there is a likelihood of such a think:
occurring ? "

"Do you, Mr. Grey, believe in love
at first sight ? "

Yes ; that is, I believe in something
which may grow into love."

Well, this may be a case of it."

But have you any reason for thinking
Miss Midharst has conceived a — a tender
feeling towards her cousin in so short
time ? "

''No, no. I don't say Miss Midharst
is in love with her cousin, but she told
me this morning he interests her, and

that is a good beginning. You know
she has never met a young man of her
own rank closely. Beyond a bow and
half-hour's chat once a month when she
and I slipped into town, she has met no
one but you and her father. She has a
craze about Egypt, and this cousin is just
home from Egypt — that's another thing
in his favour. I don't want any one to
marry Maud for her money only, and
this is the reason I speak to you. She's
too good and beautiful to be married for
anything but her own amiable lovely
self, and I hope you will prevent any
fortune-hunter from snatching her up
l^eforc the grave is closed over her
father."

*'!— I— I," stammered Mr. Grey, "I
do not feel quite well. I fear I am growing
dizzy again."

The door opened.

I beg your pardon, Mrs. Grant.

Good-clay, Mr. Grey, I may not meet you
again to-day. You are not looking very
well, Miss Midharst will be delighted to
see you. She told me to tell you so. Goto
her. You will find her in her own
little drawing-room ; the Lancaster room
I think they call it. I hope your knee
is better. By the way, when and how
did you hurt it ? "

I — I am a little tired." .

'the leg?"

Yes."

How did you do it ? "

Strained it."

Long ago V

'' The night my wife was lost." He
shuddered and leaned upon the back of
the chair.

'' It is his head that troubles him
and not his knee," whispered Mrs.
Grant.

Take my arm and come into the

air. The air will do you good," said the
young man in a voice of grave solicitude
and kindness.

Thank you," said Grey, accepting
the offer.

The two left the room together, the
banker upon the baronet's arm.

Neither the knee nor the head of Grey
was suffering at that moment ; but he
felt a deadly faintness come over him
when Mrs. Grant made the appeal to him
to protect Miss Midharst against fortune-hunters.


"The blows come too quickly
and too heavily ; too quickly and too
heavily ; too quickly and too heavily
for me."

The open air and soothing landscape
calmed Grey. He always felt better out
of doors now than between walls. Rooms
had furniture, and furniture cast shadows,
and no matter what part of a room you

sat in you could not command a view
of the whole. The atmosphere indoors
was heavy, depressing, and often laden
with scents a man's wife might use,
had used once ; and these perfumes,
coming suddenly upon the sense of smell,
brought memories of long ago and half-awakened
expectation of seeing a certain
woman of pleasing aspect the love-bearer
of one. But with the dying breath of
the perfume the loved familiar figure
of the olden time faded away, and
in its place came a ghastly face with
open dead eyes and open dead lips,
and temples dark with the blue veins of
suffocation.

When that thing came in the house
no one could avoid it. It seemed in all
places at the same time, and if one raised
eyes no matter to what, that thing met
the eyes somewhere. Even when it had
not followed the dying perfume of the

musk, so long as one was in the house
one might come upon it anywhere, leaning
against the wall in the darkness between
the double doors, huddled in the shadow
of the great oak chimney-piece in the
hall, lying across the mat on one's
bedroom-door when one was retiring for
the night.

Across the threshold of that bedroom-door
this jaw-dropped thing never came.
That room was one's only sanctuary.
The old love of the honos ao'o never left

o o

that place with the dying of the perfume.
Here one's Avise moved about the room
and stood by the bedside as God had
made her, comely, and as love had made
her, happy ; not as indifference had made
her, wretched, and the devil's agent had
made her, dead.

And yet to live in that sanctuary for
happy memories was almost worse than
wandering with a dim light through

corridors against the walls of wHcli stood
shrouded indictments for the intolerable
crime. It was hard to wake and smell
the musk, and find one's young wife
standing at the glass, with the golden -
topped vial in her hand, and a smile
upon her face, then to see her fade
slowly away, to spring up, ask why
she was taken from young and loving
arms, and to be able to get no
answer ; until one opened the door,
and found there one's own middle
age, and that terrible thing across the
threshold.

Yes ; the open air was much better
than the house. Out of doors one could
keep at a distance from shadows, and,
when there is the rustle of a dress, soon
find out it is not hers. Then, when the
worst comes to the worst, one, when out
of doors, could run. Indoors, you cannot
run any distance, and jumping through

ii window would attract attention and
inquiry, neither of which could be endured
now .

Leaning heavily on the arm of the
young baronet, Grey walked up and down
the terrace in front of the northern face
of the Castle. In about a quarter of an
hour he said :

I am very much obliged to you, Sir
William. You have been exceedingly kind
to me. May I ask you to do one more
little favour for me?"

Certainly."

Will you kindly make my excuses
to Miss Midharst, and say that I will not
intrude upon her to-day. I — I — I do
not feel quite equal to it. I am unstrung
a little. I shall drive home ; and a drive
always does me good."

His voice was unsteady and his manner
restless.

The baronet saw the banker safely

into the ferry-boat, and then returned to
the Castle with the message.

Wat Grey got into his fly, thinking,
I'll go to see my mother."

END OF VOL. II.

CHARLES DICKENS AND EVANS, GREAT NEW STREET, FETTER LANE, Eg.

3 0112 042260585

>:?!y.^\'^';i!iyi!:>i^.^^^^^y^^^^ ^"^^iffi

OF THE
U N Diversity
Of Ill Noise

^.3

21 Montana.

BY

EIOHAED DOWLING,

ATTXHOB OP "IHB Mystery OF Killed."

VOL, III.

LONDON :
TINSLEY Brothers, 8, CATHERINE ST., STRAND,

1880.
[sall rights reservedness

CONTENTS.

Part M*—Ef)t STohjers of S^iUntc— continued.

CHAP. PAGE

VII. — WAT Grey's business ROMANCE

Vni. — MAKING HOLIDAY 20

IX. — THE END OF THE HOLIDAY . . . , 39

I. — THE SECRET OF THE SALE 58

II. — "sir WILLIAM — " ** NO ; MIDHARST " . 77

III. — THE PARTING 96

IV. — BETWEEN THE LIGHTS 116

V. — "a woman op no name" 142

VI.— PENNILESS 159

VIL — LOSING 174

vm. — "l AM HE. pire" . . . 190

IX. — BANKER AND BARONET 201

X. — GREY REMEMBERS WHAT HE Forgot . . . 215

Part II. THE TOWERS OF SILENCE.

Chapter VIL

WAT grey's business romance.

Grey found his mother in the front
parlour of her own house. She was as
bright, intelligent as ever, and jut down
the Times and took off her spectacles ashe
entered.

"Henrys she exclaimed, as he came
in, " what is the matter ? You are looking
like a ghost."

"It is only that I have seen one,
mother," he said wearily, tenderly, as he

VOL. III. 1

kissed her, put his arms round her, and
]placed her in a chair.

"Seen what?" she demanded, looking
up impatiently at her stalwart son.

A ghost, mother."

Nonsense, Henry. Of late I see but
little of you ; and when I do see you,
you are full of mysteries, only fit for
sempstress in penny parts. You ought
not to treat me as if I wanted to be
roused into interest in your affairs by
secrets and surprises."

She patted her foot impatiently on
the floor, and looked with vivacious reproach
in his face.

He placed his hand gently but impressively
on her shoulder, and said,
looking down calmly from his large blue
frank eyes into her swift bright gray eyes :

I am not, mother, practising any
art upon you ; I am practising a great
art upon myself."

She now saw something serious was
coming or was in his mind ; and while she
did not allow her courage to decline, or
the resolution of her look to diminish, she
asked simply,

And what is that art, Henry ? "

That of enduring the company of a
villain in the presence of the person I
most respect on earth."

She looked round the room hastily.

^' He can't mean this place'' she thought,
*' for we are alone." Raising impatient
eyes to his, she said, " I am listening. Who
is this villain ? "

"Your son."

Say that again, my hearing " She

paused and put her hand behind her ear,
and bent forward her wrinkled neck to
catch the words.

"In your presence, mother, I am trying
to endure the presence of your villanous
son, my villanous self."

*^ Sit clown, Henry' she said very
quietly.

He sat down on a chair a little distance
in front of her.

She thought, " His father never told
me there was a taint of insanity on his
side of the family, and I know there was
none on mine. This is terrible, but I
must keep cool. Perhaps it will pass
away. We shall have the best advice.
He looks haggard. The wisest thing is
to make little of what he says." Then
she said aloud, "Well, Henry, I suppose
you are going to tell me something else?"

I am going to tell you, mother, all
man durst utter. The unspeakable must
remain unsaid."

He leaned his elbow on a small table,
and supported his brow with his thumb
and forefinger, shading his eyes with the
fingers and the palm of the hand.

She sat upright on her chair. It was

an easy clair, but she disdained the support
of elbows or back. She thought his words,
*' The unspeakable must remain unsaid."
*' My son ! my son ! what has turned his
poor head ? " Aloud she said, " Tell me
all you please, Henry."

It is so cool and sweet and pure
here, mother, in this house of yours, in
your presence ; I would give all the world
if I might live here."

Then why not come '? That great
empty house is too much for you, and
you are growing morbid there. Come
here at once, and it will be like old times
to you and me."

'^ I am not so lonely in that house as
you might think," he said, with a ghastly
contraction of the lips and a shudder.

But you see no one now. You have
no company, and even at its best and
brightest it was a dismal old barracks.
Suppose, Henry, I live with you '\ "

He looked u^) suddenly, fiercely, and
cried in a loud voice :

No, no ; you must not think of that.
That is the last thing likely to happen.
How could you think of such a thing ? "

His head, his head was clearly gone.
Fancy his resisting such an offer from her
in such a passionate, ill-tempered way.

Then come and live with me ; the
isolation of that house is preying upon
you."

He had dropped his head once more
to its old position.

I am not so much alone there as you
might suppose."

I thought you saw nobody lately."

'' But I am often, when at home now,
in the company of Bee in her better
days."

What splendid self-torture this was !
To dance thus before his mother on the
brink of a precipice she did not sec was

exhilarating. It was almost worth committing
a crime to enjoy the contrast
between the ideas these words brought up
in his mind and his mothers.

*' A bad sign," thought the old woman.
^' A bad sign of reason, when the mind of
a man of his age is always with the past."
She said : '^ I think it would be much
better for you to shut up the Manor and
come here. If you take my advice you
would most certainly leave that hateful
house. It was all very well when you
were strong and happy to call parts of
your house by horrible names, but when
you are ill and weak and nervous you get
superstitious, and full of foolish notions
about those very things you have been
playing with."

"Do you know, mother, I would not
exchange my Tower of Silence for any
castle in England at this moment ; no,
not for the fee-simple of Yorkshire."

The tone, the words, and the awful
smile that accompanied them, cowed the
spirit of the woman. " My God ! " she
thought, "this is worse than death. His
reason is toppling, toppling."

She did not speak, but waited for him
to go on.

But, mother, there is another reason
for my not selling the Manor."

"And what is that, Henry?"

I am thinking of getting married."

"Married! Married!"

"Yes. Am I so old or so feeble that
I should not think of marrying again?"
he asked, with a clumsy attempt at a
smile as he half uncovered his pallid face.

"No," she answered slowly.

"Then why are you astonished?"

I did not say I was astonished."

"No, mother, but you looked astonished;
tell me why? Why were you
astonished at the idea of my marrying a

second time ? Do you know any reason
why I should not?"

This was a fierce pleasure. It was
like stirring up a sleeping lion dien there
was no chance of escape save through a
small door, before reaching which he
might, if he awoke, spring upon you, seize
you by the back, and latter out your
brains with one swing against the bars.
It was like mounting a parapet under
lire, and standing there thirty seconds,
watch in hand, expecting to be struck,
and trying to anticipate where.

Reason for your not marrying ! No,
I know nothing to prevent your marrying."

She did care to excite him in his very
critical mental condition by reference to
the little comfort he had derived from his
experience of wedlock.

Well, mother, it is not only that
no cause exists why I should not marry,
but an absolute necessity — a necessity

there is no evading, makes the step
inevitable."

He had raised his head from his hand
and was looking in her face.

You have always had good reasons
for your acts," she said, humouring his
whim.

"And, moreover, it is imperatively
necessary I shall marry one particular
woman, and no other."

What ! in love again already ! "
exclaimed Mrs. Grey, with a desperate
attempt at archness.

The attempt failed utterly, and her
face wore a look of anxiety and pain. It
was now clear her son did not suffer from
mere hallucination ; this was a break up
of the whole intellect.

The man was so lost to external things
he did not notice the change in his
mother's face. He was deliberately rehearsing
aloud his plan of campaign, and

counting this forces and chances. He
had almost forgotten he addressed his
mother. He knew he might speak outwith
safety. This was the first time
he had dared to give utterance to his
thoughts in the presence of another.
There was intoxication in the fearless
recital of his case, and, with his bodily
eyes indifferent to things around him,
he abandoned himself to the delight of
speaking his secret thought, and observing
how the uttered words lightened his
burden.

^'You are curious to know her name?"
he asked, in a mechanical tone.

I should like to hear who it is," she
returned.

^' It's a very good name. It will
bring no discredit on the name of Grey.
Guess."

^' Indeed, I cannot."

"Maud Midharst."

Maud Midharst ! " exclaimed the old
woman, relaxing the rigidity of her pose,
and falling for support against the back
of her chair — " Maud Midharst ! " she repeated,
in a tone of dismay. For a moment
she had forgotten she was listening to a
man suffering from severe mental disturbance.
Instantly almost she recovered
herself, and fixing eyes now full of tenderness
and pity upon her son, resumed her
upright attitude, and continued her former
plan of humouring him. " She is very
beautiful, very amiable, and very rich,"
the woman said.

She is very beautiful, very amiable,
and very poor'' he said impressively.

Again Mrs. Grey started. His tones
were not those of a man of unsound mind ;
and although his face looked pale and
worn, and there was a queer expression
in the eyes, the whole conveyed the idea
of a man overwrought rather than radically

unsound of head. She was so much
thrown off her guard that she could not
refrain from repeating aloud, ^* Very poor!"

"Yes, very poor," he went on in the
same monotonous voice, and with the same
lightness face turned to hers. "And it is
because she is very poor I am going to
marry her."

A regular love romance ! " cried the
old lady in a sprightly voice. The tears
were in her eyes. Her son, her only son,
the idol of her life, breaking down thus
in his strong; manhood ! Hard sis^ht fora
mother ! How hard to sit still, and
seem calm, and watch the light of
departing reason flickering in those large
blue eyes, which in the happy warm long
ago had looked up to hers as the baby
boy lay at her breast.

"A real business romance," he said
gravely. " A real business romance."

It must be a romance indeed if you

are marrying lier because she is poor, for
I believe you, Henry, are not ricci." She
thought, "Perhaps it will be best to take
an interest in all this. If I do not he
may think I suspect him of being under
delusions, and I daresay that would make
him worse."

The Daneford Bank is now secure
and in a prosperous condition, but I have
nothing beyond its prosperity, so that,
compared with the time I got the Bank,
I am a poor man, for I have lost all my
private fortune. Does it not seem strange
to you, mother, that I, a poor man, should
aspire to the hand of a baronet's poor
daughter ? "

But, Henry, this is a love romance, and
in love romances all things are possible."

I have explained to you, mother, that
it is a highness, and not a love romance.
But I have not told you half the romance
yet."

"I am most anxious to hear it."

I have never said a word of love to
lier yet. I do believe a word of love
has never yet been spoken to her, and
already there is a rival in the field, so that
now we have every element of success''

And who is this rival ? "

"The new baronet, Sir William Mid-hast."


Sir William Midharst ! I thought he
was in Egypt."

He has been, but he got back justin
time for Sir Alexander's funeral. He
walked to the funeral with me, came back
and fell in love with his cousin Maud."

How do you know this 1 "

"Mrs. Grant told me."

"And does Mrs. Grant know you are
in love with Miss Midharst ? "

"No, nor any one else."

I, for instance, know."

Who told you ? "

'' You."

'' Never."

^^ He forgets already what lie told me a
few minutes ago. This is terrible. I shall
not be able to stand it much longer. My
poor Wat ! I wonder what has turned
his brain ? " the mother thought. She endeavoured
to keep on her face an expression
of vivacious interest.

He spoke again. ^^I never told
you I was in love with Maud Midharst.
I only told you that it is absolutely
necessary I should marry her."

'' In some things' the mother thought,
^' he is as clear as ever. Of course all
this talk of his marrying Miss Midharst is
the result of some way poor Bee's death
affected him," she reflected. Aloud she
said, "But, Henry, if you do not love
her, and if she is poor and you are not
rich, why are you compelled to marry
her ? "

'^ If any one knew the answer to that
question, mother, that person could put
me in the dock and convict me of
embezzlement."

She started to her feet and placed
her hand on his shoulder, and cried in a
voice of agony : " My God, my son is
mad ! "

He rose quietly and ' put both his
hands tenderly on her shoulders, and
whispered hoarsely in her ear : "I am
not mad now. I never was more sane
in my life. I was mad when I stole
Sir Alexander's savings to the last penny.
It was with his money I saved the
Bank."

Great God, what do I hear ! "

The truth. I am no better thana
thief. I have stolen the old man's
savings and the young girl's fortune,
and, unless I marry her, I shall be found
out. Did I not tell you I was in the

VOL. III. 2

company of a villain when I came in first ?
Now you believe me."

And you lied to me when you told
me about that money from the Pacific
coast ? Ten thousand times better madness
than this ! "

"I did."

You, Henry, my son, lied to me ? "

'' Yes."

Understand my question once for
all. AVhen you, Henry Grey, told me,
your mother, that the Daneford Bank
had been saved by money from the Pacific
coast, did you lie to me ? "

I did."

Then, sir, leave my presence and
my house for ever ! "

'' Mother!"

'^ Go, sir, at once ! "

Mother, for God's sake ! You do
not know all ! "

'' Go, sir, at once ! I do not want to

see any more of yoii — hear any more of
yon. Yon have brought disgrace on onr
honourable name. Yon lead not the
courage to face ruin, bnt you had the
courage to face crime, and you had
the baseness to lie to me, sir. Go, I tell
you, sir, and let me see you no more.
Let me forget there is a man alive who
bears your honourable father's name. Do
not let me see you again. Do not let
me hear of you. You will not go, sir ?
Then I shall leave you. Remember, we
never meet again."

She swept out of the room.

Alien she had gone he stood a while
holding his forehead in his hands, then
shook himself, left the room, and drew
the front door after him with a low laugh,
muttering : '' And I did not tell her all.
I forgot a part."

MAKING HOLIDAY.

When Grey awoke the morning after the
interview with his mother, he felt calmer
than usual. He had slept better, and
the air of early November was bright and
crisp, and wholesome and invigorating.

He arose, drew back the curtains, and
raised the l)lind. The leaves were all off
the trees, and the bright sharp fretwork of
oak sprays glittered in the morning sun.
The grove was silent. All its winged
lodgers had long since taken flight in search
of food. The shades and caverns of the
grove no longer sweltered under canopies
of impenetrable leaves. Aisles, which

had been vaults of sultry gloom in summer,
lay partly open to the sky. Here and
there the eye could pierce the intertwisted
branches and catch sight of the
mounds of red rotting leaves.

The grove no longer desired the screen
of leaves to hide it from the eyes of man,
to cover up the monsters of soft rank
vegetation that throve and bloated until
they burst with the unclean rottenness
of excess. All things perishable in the
vegetable domain were now melting' down

o o

into the ground, there to lie until the
spring-hunger of the seed and root moved
and drank them in, to thrust them once
more whence they lay into the green-giving
air.

In the warm weather these juices, as
they move about through the earth, are
caught in the webs of roots and budding
seeds, and are pushed upwards through the
crust of earth, and by the sun dyed into a

coat of many colours to keep excessive heat
from the under earth.

In the winter they are shorn of their
beauty, and thrust down into all the crevices
of earth, there standing incorruptible sentinels
of ice to prevent the penetration
of the cold.

The coming and going of these juices
through the mould is the respiration of the
earth. The breathing of all things grows
less frequent as they increase in size. Man
breathes twelve times a minute, the earth
once a year. Can the heat of all earth's
time be its share of one fiery expiration of
the sun ?

Grey stood gazing vacantly at the
skeleton trees and the mounds of red-yellow
leaves.

Of late he had observed that his
thoughts came much more slowly than of
old, and this was a mercy. This morning
they scarcely moved at all.

"Like a skeleton," lie thought. "The
grove is like a skeleton from the bones
of which the flesh has rotted, fallen
through, and is lying down there under
the ribs."

He shuddered, put his hand to his
head, muttering : " No, no ; I must not
think of that ; I must not think of that.
I must think of anything but that. Of
course, the exposure — it is nearly three
months there now — has — has — and there
is nothing left but — Oh, God ! No, no
no ; I must not think."

It took him a long time to collect
his thoughts latterly. This morning he
was much slower than usual. It was
those sleepless nights that made him so
dull of mornings now. He had such
thoughts and visions in the night that in
the mornings he felt weary, worn out,
jaded.

His mother !

Yes. He had not thought of that
until now. That was bad, very bad.
These blows were coming too quickly and
too heavily, and that one was the heaviest
of all. He had sought her in his sorest
trouble, his direst fear, and she had spurned
him, cast him off, expelled him from her
presence for ever. She — she — she had
been cruel to him — cruel to him. She
was all now left to him in the world.
He had squandered everything else in
the world but her love and his love for
her. He went to her in his direst need,
and confessed a small crime and a little
sin, an embezzlement and a lie only, and
she had spurned him — more, it seemed to
him, for the lie than the embezzlement.
This was too bad. If she had sjDumed
him for these, what would she do if
he had told her of — of the other
thing ? Called the police perhaps. Well,
after all, the police were not so terrible

to him now, for there was no one in all
the world he caiecl for who cared for him,
and he was free.

All things had gone well with him
until now, until the funeral of the baronet.
Since then he had learned he was not
the absolute guardian of Maud, he had
found out Maud had an admirer, and
he had lost the affection and esteem of
his mother for ever.

The blows were too fast and too heavy.

What should he do ? He could not
go on in this way. He should breakdown
if he did not get relief. There
was no use in going to the castle while
that young fellow was there, and even if
the young fellow were gone, the thinker
was in no state of mind to push forward
his fortunes with Maud. Indeed, there
was absolute danger in going near the
castle. In his present state of mind he
might betray his designs on Maud, and

that would be ruin beyond retrieval.
That young fellow was not likely to propose
to the orphan a few days after her
father's death. He, the thinker, would
take a week's holiday, and come back
invigorated for the game.

That day he went to the Bank and
arranged everything for an absence of a
week or ten days. He wrote a note to
Miss Midharst, saying he was compelled
by ill-health to leave Daneford for a week
or so. He expressed his hope that while
he was away Mrs. Grant would advise in
any little matter on which Miss Midharst
might in the usual course look to him
for guidance ; as to any matter of importance,
they would have his address at
the Bank, and a messenger should call
every day at the castle for any message,
letter, or telegram she might please to
send to him. He would send her his
address ; but he did not know how long

he might stay in London, where he was
going first, as change was what he needed
most.

To Sir "William he wrote courteously
and blandly to the effect that he hoped
Sir William would not forget his promise
of drawing on the Daneford Bank for the
twenty thousand spoken of, and any
further sum the baronet might stand in
need of. The banker regretted he was
obliged to go away so soon after the sad
event at the castle ; but he was absolutely
done up, and rest was the only
thing to restore him to vigour. The
writer hoped to be back in Daneford intime
to say God speed Sir William, on
the baronet's setting out for Egypt.
While the banker was away, Mr. Matthew
Aldridge, manager of the Daneford Bank,
would be delighted to do anything in his
power for Sir William.

Grey wrote a few lines to Mrs. Grant.

That note was the shortest of the three,
and took him the longest time to write.
He tore up two copies. Nothing could
be simpler or more guileless than the one
he sent. It ran :

"Dear Mes. Meant,

I am obliged by my health,
to take a few days' rest in a new scene.
I hope to be no longer than a week or
ten days from home. I hope you will
not think absenting myself so soon after
Sir Alexander's death shows want of
devotion to Sir Alexander's child. My
first duty in life is to her. I need not
say I leave her with implicit confidence
in your care. I know you will always
be loyal to the wishes of her whither,
herself, and yours very faithfully,

"Henry Walter Grey."

When these letters had been disposed
of and a few other business matters

attended to, lie took train for the southeast
and arrived in London that night.

The journey fatigued him ; and change
of air, even when from a good into a worse
atmosphere, being beneficial, he slept
soundly that night, and awoke with less
sense of distraction, less difficulty in
collecting his thoughts.

In Grey's youth he had sjDent much
time in London, and knew portions of
the town, those west of Tottenham Court
Road and Trafalgar Square, very well.
But he had little acquaintance with the
City, and none with the east. He had
been frequently in the City on banking
business, and knew the ten streets confluent
round the Bank. But the bulk
of the City was an unknown land to
him.

Change was what he sought. Novelty
without solitude. Therefore, instead of
the quiet hotel in Jermyn Street, where

lie usually put up, lie found himself this
morning in a large City hotel not a bowshot
from the cathedral of St. Paul.

A while he lay awake listening to the
tremulous mutter of the City traffic.
What a contrast, these groans of wheels
and clatters of hoofs with the morning
silence about the Manor House. Here,
the walls vibrated, the solid ground shook,
the air fluttered against the window-panes
with the sway of bodies moving ceaselessly
hither and thither. There, no sound
came in upon the desert realms of the
morning silence but the faint twitter of a
bird or the far-off crack of a carter's whip
or a sportsman's gun.

Would it not be better for him to
stop here always?

Here were no suggestions of the
disastrous past. No one knew him here.
Suppose he burnt down the Manor House,
took twenty thousand pounds out of the

Bank, changed his name, disguised himself,
and came to live in the middle of roaring'
London ? Ambition he would abandon.
Blows had come so heavily and so quickly,
the ambition had been beaten out of him.
Security and peace were what he yearned
for. Security and peace. Peace.

If he lived in this great whirlpool in
the ocean of Man, the shouting of his
fellows would drown the memories of his
ears. Who could hear the whisperings of a
woman's dress in the tumult of this great
city, with its turmoil of multitudinous
wheels and clangour of innumerable bells ?
Here he could take his ease for the re^fc of
his life, and drown the vague hideous
whispers of the dead in the loud-toned
wrangles of the living.

There was, however, no necessity for
his now changing his name or adopting
disguises. He had some days to rest and
recruit. When these had passed it would

be time enoiigli for him to think of
precautions.

He went out after breakfast, and strolled
alone; streets lie had never been in before.

He moved west through streets running
in perplexing zigzags, a little to the north

of Cheapside, Newgate Street, and Lowborn.
He strolled slowly, looking in at shop-windows,
and taking interest in the disputes
of ragged boys and the bargaining of slattern
women at the doors of slop shops and marine
store dealers. He was not used to such
scenes, and they took his mind off his
own affairs and condition better than the
deserted parks or richer streets. It seemed
to him as though he had already severed
his connection with Daneford, and lived
emancipated from the past.

At last he came to an open space, in
the centre of which stood a large heavy-looking;
building' he had never seen before.
Passing; alone the southern side of this

open sjDace, lie came to the entrance of that
building.

He thought : " Often as I have been
in London, I have never seen even the
outside of this before. It will be a capital
place to spend a few hours."

He entered the enclosure through the
small gate, and walked slowly up to the
deep portico. Under this portico he stood
awhile, watching the pigeons, and the
people going in and out. Then turning
his back upon the daylight, he entered the
British Museum, that storehouse for the
unclaimed personal property of intestate
centuries and forgotten kinross.

Passing slowly through the hall of
busts, he reached the Egyptian Room.
He had no great love of the antique, no
great curiosity in people who staggered
through the dark approaches leading upto
the still, spiritualized, unexciting
Greek art. He never took much interest

VOL. III. 3

ill art. He had been many times to
the Academy. He had enjoyed going ;
but it is doubtful if he were offered
to be allowed to 2fo through the rooms
alone he would have accepted the
privilege.

To-day Egypt had a new meaning
and a new attraction for him. From
Egypt that young man had come unexpectedly
to thwart his plans. To
Egypt that young man was going back
again.

AYhat preposterous and foolish figures
those around were ! What impossible
creatures ! Cat-headed men ! Was this
the kind of country that young man
had come from ? Alligators, too, and
crocodiles ! Tombs. The Egyptians gave
more honour to their illustrious dead
than we do t(^ our living poor. With
them a dead lion was much better thana
living dog.

Egypt must have been a land of
monsters, fools, and tombs.

Grey was now leaning on the rail
which protected a sarcophagus of polished
black stone. His eyes were fixed vacantly
on the coffin.

^'The Egyptians," he followed on
thinking, " preserved their dead for ever ;
the Greeks destroyed them at once ; and
we put them underground, and let them
shift for themselves.

'put them underground — not all!"

He stopped thinking, and looked around
cautiously. There were no protecting
noises here. Infrequent footsteps, and
occasionally a cough, were the only sounds
invading the dull gloomy gallery. Coming
up towards the sarcophagus by which he
stood was a middle-aged portly man,
leading two fair flaxen-haired children by
the hand. The man was describing the
various objects they passed.

'' Sometimes we don't let the living-shift
for themselves, we shift for them ;
and sometimes without putting the dead
in the ground we leave those whom we
shifted out of life to shift for themselves
unburied."

The man leading the little girls reached
the sarcophagus. He stopped the children
and, pointing to the coffin, said :

This was King Pharaoh's favourite
coffin. When he was quite a young man
he contracted the habit of being buried
in this coffin, and as he grew older he
gave way more and more to this degrading
habit. Stop, let me look closer. Upon
my word and honour I have made a
mistake. I see by one of the mortuary
cards issued at the death, and found
Alien they dug up this coffin out of the
Nile, the body was that of one Ibis
Cheops, who flourished a long time ago.
"When he was done flourishing they put

him in here. Flourishing long ago was
greatly admired ; we solicitors are dead
against it now. Let me see any of my
copying clerks flourishing, and he may
take down his hat and overcoat and go
and enjoy life."

Is that in the catalogue, all about
this stone hearse ? " asked one of the
children.

'^No, child."

Then how do you know, uncle ?
You told us you were never here
before."

"My dear child, you forget I am a
solicitor ; and once a man has anything
to do with the Court of Chancery he is
up to every mean dodge of human nature.
It isn't to say that the muddle-headed
ancient Egyptians could deceive or overreach
him in any way, but he is more
than a match at cheating; for the modern
Greeks ; and that's about as stiff a

competitive examination in roguery as
anyone can pass. I beg your pardon, sir ;
Mr. Grey, I think, of Daneford ? Am I
right ? "

THE END OF THE HOLIDAY.

Grey looked up with an uneasy start and
ii sudden pallor.

You do not remember me. My
name is Barraclougli. I am London representative
of Mr. Evans, your Daneford
solicitor."

Of course, of course. This is about
the last place in the world I should think
of meeting you, Mr. Barraclougli."

I may say the same of you, Mr. Grey.
Indeed few men — none, practically speaking
of our age come here, unless specialists
of some kind."

I have never been here before."

Nor have I. That fact explains our
presence here to-day at our time of life.
As a rule, boys are brought here when
young, under the impression they are
going to have a treat ; they find the thing
a pedantic stuck-up bore, get disgusted
with the place, and swear an oath (most
likely the only one they swear and keep)
that they will not enter this building
again. Ever after in their memory this
building seems the sour, old, crusty,
maiden aunt of the sights of London.
Now, my dears, just walk on a little
before us ; I want to speak to this gentleman.
Mind to keep a sharp look-out for
Pharaoh's favourite coffin. I'm sure it's
somewhere hereabouts. You'll know it at
once by not being able to distinguish it
from the others until you shut one eye
and keep the other eye fixed on the
Rosetta stone, because that is, as you
know, the only key we have to the hieroglyphics.

I think they keep the Rosetta
stone ill one of the cellars, for fear of the
daylight fading the inscription. You shall
go down and see it presently ; but now
run on, and look up the coffin. My nieces,
Mr. Grey," he explained, as the children
with bewildered gravity walked on. '^ I
live quite close — Bloomsbury Square. My
wife had to go somewhere or other to-day,
and asked me to take the children out
for a few hours ; so I left word at the
office I should be here if they wanted me.
You are not looking quite so well as the
last time I saw you."

I have not been very well of late, and
same up here for a rest from business."

I don't know how you bankers live.
If I were one, I should worry myself to
death in forty - eight hours. I should
always be thinking my clerks were pocketing
hundred-pound notes, or burglars were
breaking into the strong-box."

Grey winced a little, but said nothing.
The other ran on :

I am sure this meeting' is most lucky.
Will you dine with me to-day ? I got the
instructions from Evans this morning, and
will do the best I can, you may be sure.
I have not, of course, been able to do
anything in the matter as yet. It will
take time. Dine with me, and we can
talk the matter over. We shall be quite
alone — no one but my wife. We can
exchange views over a cio;ar."

Grey felt perplexed and confounded.
He had not the least idea of what Barra-clough
referred to. Could it be his head
had been so much confused he had gone
to Evans, given him important instructions,
and then forgotten all about them ? The
thing must be of consequence. There
would be no need to discuss a trifle. It
would not, however, do to confess this
entrance or forgetfulness to this man.

^^ Can we not speak of it here?" Grey
asked.

Barraclough looked around, shrugged
his shoulders in deprecation of the place,
and said : "I think business always comes
best after dessert. Do dine with me. I
promise you an excellent cigar."

Grey was sorely perplexed. He had
no hint of what those instructions were.
It was absolutely necessary he should find
out. This was not a fitting place for a
business chat. The idea of dining with
anyone was intolerable.

'' I am very much obliged to you, and
should be very pleased to dine with you,
Int I — I really cannot. I must keep as
quiet as possible. You will excuse my
not going ; and, as a favour, tell me now
what you have to say."

^^ Certainly, certainly. Let me see-let
me see. Of course, Mr. Grey, in a
matter of this kind we must be businesslike,

and take into consideration facts we
might otherwise leave out of sight."

^' Of course."

What could be coming ? This was a
very grave prelude.

You are executor and trustee to
the will ? "

Yes." Grey started. " Sole executor
and trustee."

Sole executor and trustee ! Are you
sure of that ? Evans said you were one
of the executors and trustees."

I am sole executor and trustee, I
assure you."

What lead he said to Evans about the
will ? In his conscious moments he had
no intention of saying anything to Evans
about the will. The blows were coming
too heavily and too quickly. His head —
his head !

Strange ! Evans ought to be more
careful. He said he was not sure whether

the others were living or not ; but he
mentioned the fact that it would be
necessary to inquire and ascertain if they
were living or dead."

The attorney looked cautiously into
the sarcophagus, as though he expected
the bottom to disappear, disclosing the
missing executors and trustees.

Grey glanced at the other man in a
bewildered way. The whole of his intellect
must be going. Not only had he gone
to Evans and given him important instructions
about something or other, but,
if he was to credit Evans and Barraclough,
he had forgotten a feature in that will,
and this very feature happened to be
enough to destroy him instantly. Could
it be, good Heavens, that there was a
second name in the will, and he had
forgotten it, and was roaming here about
London instead of taking the precaution
of blowing; out his brains I

He felt sick and faint. His head
began to swim. What a blessed fate
that of those men of Egypt who, three
thousand years ago, had died, and been
swathed up in bandages, enclosed in huge
granite coffins, and buried in the inviolable
silence and security of pyramids ! Here
was he, all naked and raw from crime,
out in the rough winds, among the rough
ways of unfeeling men ; and add to all
this his head — his head !

^^ I am surprised at Evans," said G-rey.
He ouo'ht to have known. He ouo'ht
to have known better."

I should think he ought !" exclaimed
the attorney warmly. " To fancy a man
instructing: another to move in an important
matter of this kind, to write and
say the consent of the trustees might be
relied upon, and then to find out there
was but one trustee ! Evans must be
going mad."

Yes ; he or— I."

Nonsense," returned Barraclough.
'' There is no chance of your being wrong.
Evans is either careless or mad."

"What do you purpose doing?" asked
Grey cautiously.

That question might safely be put in
the face of any facts.

I shall sell, of course. Evans tells
me you agree to sell ; so that if you are
sole executor and trustee, there is no need
to look up anyone for consent."

What was he to hear next 1 This
man was telling him he had a co-executor
and co-trustee, and that he had authorised
Evans to sell. Monstrous ! Which was
his period of insanity : dien he had (if
he had) given Evans the instructions, or
now ? Which was his madness : in giving
such instructions, or in now believing
his senses and the words of this man ?
He made a great effort, pulled all his

faculties together, knit this brows, and put
this question to himself : "Is the lead
to overtake the gold — to-night V Then
he put another question to Barraclough :

"What did Evans say altogether?"

That Mrs. Grey had come to him "

Arrested by the banker's manner, Barra-clough
paused.

Grey had leaned suddenly forward,
tlu'ust a pale, shrivelled face close to
Barraclough's, placed one hand on the
attorney's shoulder, and, pointing over his
own right shoulder with the other hand,
whispered :

This one ? "

"You are ill? "

''No. Go on:'

You really look very ill. Let me "

''No. Go on''

He said she wished to sell out her
annuity of two thousand a year "

Who said that ? "

^'Mrs. Grey, your mother."

''My mother''

'' Yes."

Suddenly Grey's face changed. It
flushed. He drew himself clear of the
attorney, and, throwing his arms aloft,
uttered a loud long laugh, followed by the
words : '' Before high Heaven I thought
he meant my wife ! "

All eyes were now directed to where the
tall banker stood, with his arms upraised,
and a smile of joy upon his flushed face.
Ere the last echo of his voice had died away
among these galleries of relics from the
wrecks of a hundred religions. Grey's knees
shook, and, with a groan, he fell to the
ground.

It was hours before Walter Grey regained
consciousness. His thoughts were slue^^'ish
and dull. The edges of his ideas were
blurred, and wavering this way and that
against the back-round. Around him all

VOL. III. 4

was dim. It was night. A shaded lamp
was somewhere in the room. He did not
know where the lamp stood.

Where was that lamp ? What a strange
thing no one came there to tell him where
the lamp lay ! He himself could not of
course get up to try and find out where
the lamp was. Of course not.

Why not ? Ay, why not ? Wasn't
it very strange there should be no one
there to tell him where the lamp was,
particularly as he could not get up !

But why — why — why ?

He lost the sense of sight, and felt his
eyes pressed against illimitable void darkness.
His ears, too, were dead, plugged with thick
silence that was not clear, but confused
silence, as in the cars of one deep in water.
Then the darkness and the silence shuddered
with horror, and he ceased to be aware.

It was daylight, and his tongue was
very thick — thicker than ever he had felt

it. It was so thick and stiff lie could
not move it. This was strange. The light,
too, was peculiar. It looked as though
the dawn or daylight lay far from the
window. Of course the dawn was far away
from the windows always, but it seemed
immeasurably far off this morning. But
then the ringing of all those bells made up
for the increased distance of the dawn. How
dull he had been not to see that at first !
Of course the bells more than compensated
the distance of the dawn. How he hated
Latin ! He'd never even try to learn it —
never. They might flog him as much as
ever they chose, but Latin he'd never learn.
Not for all the masters in England. No ;
not for his father. He would not even
pretend to learn it, only for his mother.
But for his mother he'd shy a slate at the
head-master, and hit the Latin man with
the heavy, very heavy knob of the big
school-room poker on the bald part, right in

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois

the middle of the ball part, of his head.
They were ringing a thousand Sells more
now. How the sound did thin out the
dawn ! It thinned it out until all was worn
away. Well, he had better go to sleep. He
had a hard day's work before him. He had
promised Bee (this very day six weeks
they had been married) to take her on the
river, their own river, and show her what
he could do with the sculls. He was to
pull her down to SeaclifF. And yet, with
that run on the Bank, how was he to
sleep ? Bee too was worrying him a good
deal. Why did they not stop those bells ?
They had changed the measure of the
bells. They had been ringing peals of
joy ; they now rang ten thousand times
more bells, but they were all ringing
death-bells. Ah, yes ; how stupid he had
been ! Of course, they were burying the
universe in the Great Darkness, and these
were the great bells swung in the peaked

hollows of space, ringing for the burial
in chaos of the dead stars. Now he must
go.

It was afternoon before he again opened
his eyes. He felt something had happened,
what he did not know. " I have had
a bad fall, or an accident of another
kind ; my head feels queer and I am
weak. What has happened '? Where
cam I ? "

He lay still awhile to recover strength.
Then he asked feebly : "Is there anyone
here V

A nurse showed herself. She would
not allow him to speak much, but she
told him the history of his present position
briefly :

While speaking to Mr. Barraclough in
the British Museum, he had had an attack,
of what kind the doctor did not say.
From the British Museum Mr. Barraclough
had him conveyed to this place, the

attorney's house, where he had been
insensible for some hours.

Had he raved ?

No ; not a word.

Had any message been sent home ?

Yes. Mr. Barraclough had telegraphed
to Mr. Grey's chief man at Daneford, and
the gentleman was now waiting; below.

Grey asked that Mr. Aldridge might
be sent to him. The nurse a screed to
admit the manager on an understanding
the interview was to occupy no more
than a quarter of an hour.

In a few minutes x41drido;e entered the
room, and having expressed his regrets and
horses, and received suitable replies. Grey's
first question was :

Have you told anyone of the contents
of that telegram?"

"No." •

You are sure ?"

Quite sure."

Tell no one on the face of the earth."

'^I promise not."

"Alclridge, I have known you sometime,
and I have every reason to believe
and trust you. I am under many obligations
to you. Keep this matter entirely
to yourself, and you will double all my
gratitude."

Rely on me."

It may leak out through the telegraph
office or through Barraclough. I want you
to go back to Daneford at once, see Evans,
and tell him not to say anything of my
illness. This is most important. Now go.
Barraclough may have told Evans. Go at
once."

^'Any further orders?"

"No."

I have paid Sir William Midharst's
cheque for twenty thousand."

"All right. Don't lose a moment.
Don't miss the first train."

Grey fell back exhausted. Though Lis
head ached, it felt clearer than for many
weeks.

It would never do," he thought,
to have all Daneford gossiping over
the infirmities of a man who must
one of these days be a candidate bridegroom.
The least said about me the
letter. 1 have neither the humour nor
the strength for criticism or sympathy at
present."

It was several days before he was well
enough to go home. He went back
straight to Daneford.

The evening of his arrival he strolled
through the city, and took no heed of
the direction in which he had wandered
until he was attracted by something
unusual in a house over the way. The
front of the house was all dark. It was
his mother's house. The piers of the
gate were covered with auction bills

announcing in a few days the sale of
the lease and furniture.

He had, until now, forgotten what
Barraclough had told him. All rushed
in upon his mind.

She is going to sell her annuity,
her lease, her furniture, poor old woman ;
and I, the only trustee living, cannot
prevent her, cannot approach her. Poor
old woman ! Wat Grey, I never pitied
you until this moment."

CHAPTER I.

THE SECRET OF THE SALE.

Grey had taken all the precautions in his
power to prevent a report of his illness
spreading, because he did not wish anything
to get abroad which might make
his approaches to Maud seem unreasonable.
That was an important consideration.
But it sank into insignificance beside the
enormous danger likely to arise from the
concentration of public attention upon him
at this time.

Here was his own mother, the one
owner of remaining claims upon his better

nature, imperilling his fortune — his neck.
By advertising this sale, the eyes of all
Daneforcl would be drawn to his mother,
and the tongues of Daneford would be
busy with his name. He himself did not
know why his mother had resolved upon
converting all she had in the world into
cash, though he had an uneasy suspicion
he could guess if he tried. His great
dread was that his mother might do some
incautious thing, take some incautious
measure, in carrying out her design.

Suppose her action did not suggest
examination of anything in connection
With him, he would still be in a very
uncomfortable position. Surely people
would speak to him of the steed his
mother was about to take. What answer
should he make ? What explanation
could he give ? If anyone asked him
why his mother was selling, he could not
tell, for he did not know. It would

80011 be foiuicl out that, under the simple
conditions of his father's will, his authority
would be necessary to the sale. How
would he justify so unwise an act on the
part of his mother ? How could he tell
people he approved of it ? And yet
he must say he sanctioned it, otherwise
people would think there was something

wrong.

But even if he said he sanctioned it,
would they not think there was something
wrong? People would look first with
amazement and then with suspicion at
the sale of an old woman's annuity,
house and furniture, when he, her childless
and only son, was reputed to be enormously
rich. What could induce a woman like
Mrs. Grey to sell her house in her native
town, and the chairs her husband had
used, the table at which he had sat, the
back drawing-room furniture given lier
by him as a birthday present after the

coming of their only boy? Clearly nothing
but want of money.

It would be known his mother and he
had been on most affectionate terms all
their lives. Why did not an affectionate
son spare an affectionate mother the unpleasantness
of a sale by giving her the
paltry few thousands ? Even if he was
mean enough not to make her a present
of them, he might advance them upon the
security she had to offer. It could not be
that mother and son had quarrelled ; if
that were so he would clearly refuse his
assent. It could not be she was in difficulties
while her son had money. The
clear deduction, the only possible deduction
left to the people of Daneford would be
that the selling was with his, Wat's, full
consent, and that the money was for him
for the Daneford Bank.

All this was quite clear to Grey ;
beyond it he durst not go. No, he would

not allow Ills mind to look blind the
curtain drawn across the remote future.

What should he do ?

All night he lay awake, trying to solve
that question. Morning came and found
him without a solution.

He had recovered wonderfully. His
mind was now clear and vigorous. He
resolved not to go to the office this day.
He could not face people without some
answer to enquiries sure to be made,
and he had not yet resolved upon the
course he should pursue.

He spent the forenoon reading and
writing' letters. One he wrote to the
Castle to Miss Midharst, announcing his
return, and that he should call upon her
next day. A second he addressed to his
mother in the following terms :

Mother,

'^ One last word. If you persist
in attracting attention to my affairs, by

selling out, the chances are I shall be
ruined ; and such ruin will he mine that
I shall not face it, but leave people to
discuss my conduct over my corpse."

He did not sign this note. He sentit
by James, the stupid, purblind, discharged
soldier, and bade him wait for an
answer.

In an hour James returned with the
answer. It was in a large envelope, a
very large envelope. The reply must have
been prepared in anticipation of the appeal.
A reply so bulky must Ije a favourable
one. If an adverse answer had to be
given, it would be brief.

With trembling hands he broke the
seal as soon as he was alone. He drew
forth several documents. But the first
that caught his eye was the smallest of
all — his own letter returned unopened !
Upon the envelope was written, in the
unsteady hand of his mother, these words :

Sign the enclosed papers. The signatures
must be witnessed. They must
be signed and with me before the sale. I
have not opened your letter. I daresay it
does not lie, but how could I be sure?"

His hand ceased to tremble. He put
the unopened letter into his pocket with
a firm deliberate hand, calmly took up the
legal papers, perused them carefully, critically,
and paused now and then to extract
the sense from the legal jargon.

When he had finished reading he rang'
the bell. James answered it.

James, is there any other man who
can read and write about the place, besides
you {

One of the clerks has just come with
a message for you, sir."

"Ask him to step this way, please,
and come yourself."

In a few minutes the clerk entered,
followed by the servant.

** Glad to see you, Doughty. Got a
message for me ? Take a seat."

Yes, sir. A message from Mr.
Aldridge. This is it."

^^ Thank you. I want you, now that
you have come so opportunely, to witness
my signature to documents of importance.
They concern the sale of my mother's
annuity and property. I am sole surviving
trustee to my father's will, and I am
now about to sign these documents, authorising
those sales. Stand up, Doughty, and
look at me as I sign. James, come near.
You are near-sighted. Closer still. Now!"

He signed, and they after him.

That will do, James. It is exceedingly
unlikely there will be any dispute. In case
there should, all you have to remember
is that I signed these papers in your
presence, and you in mine, and in the
presence of one another. I am not sure the
last is necessary, but never mind. You

VOL. III. 5

need not trouble yourselves to remember

all I have Scud about the matter contained

in the papers. You may go now, eames."

When the servant had retired he said

to the clerk : " Thank you, Doughty. You

came very luckily. 1 will ask you to take

these documents back to Mrs. G-rey's.

Usually such matters reach one through

an attorney, but I am sorry to say this is

not a very ordinary or pleasant transaction.

Leave the documents with Mrs. Grey.

There is no answer. Then go back to

the Bank, and ask Mr. Aldridge to come

to me here this afternoon or evening. I

shall not be in town tomorrow, and have

something to communicate to him. This

is the reply to the note you brought from

him."

When the manager of the Daneford
Bank arrived at the Manor House he was
shown into the presence of the banker.

Grey received him with more of the

old grave blackness than he had displayed
for a long time.

Aldridge," he said, ^' I am sorry I
have a little bad news. It does not concern
the Bank. It is worse than that. I Lavish
to Heaven it did concern the Bank. We
can bear reverses in business better
than home troubles." He paused, with
his eyes fixed on the ground, in deep
thought.

Aldridge moved his chair closer to
Grey's, to show he was giving his best
attention. He did not speak.

'' You can meet a business difficulty
face to face ; but you shrink from difficulties
or unpleasantness which bring the
names of those you love and honour into
the public mouth."

It was plain to Aldridge Grey was
weighing his words with the nicest care.
The manager considered it better to preserve
his silence still.

^' I am going now," pursued Grey, *' to
place myself upon your honour "

I am sure you may do that," interrupted
Aldridge with respectful emphasis.
The respect in the emphasis was not that
of employed to employer, but of sympathiser
for a fellowman, an esteemed
fellow-man in trouble.

Something in Aldridge's tone struck
Grey. He stood up, stretched out his hand
to Aldridge, took the manager's hand in
his, and said impressively : " Aldridge, I
am sure of that."

Thank you. Now you may go on,
I will not interrupt again."

'^ You know my mother has advertised
her house and furniture for sale ? "

Yes."

And that she is about to sell her
annuity."

So I have heard."

I, as trustee, have just signed the

documents. There is talk about this affair
in town ? "

'' There is ; a good deal. People cannot
Understand it."

'' It came as a great shock and surprise
to me when I heard it. It was that
shock knocked me up in London."

*' I thought it must have had something
to do with it."

'' It was the cause of it. Well, I am
placed in a horribly awkward position.
My mother is called upon to pay a
large sum of money, say eight to ten
thousand. Of course, we could easily
manage that."

Easily, I should think," said Aldridge,
thinking with pride of the gallant stand
the Bank had made in the late ruinous
times.

"But," continued Grey, "if I paid the
money now, I might be called upon to
pay a similar or even a larger sum in six

montis, and again six months later, and I
could not stand that kind of thing."

Aldridge shook his head and looked
grave in confirmation of Grey's decision.

'^ The things must be sold," continued
the banker. " When she has no property
to pledge, no annuity to pawn, I can make
a suitable allowance to her. The fact is,.
Aldridge, my poor mother has lost all her
money in gambling on the Stock Exchange.
Her name does not appear. She did it
through some fellow in London. Now you
see how there is nothing for it but to sell
out. You see that clearly ? "

'^ Nothing in the world could be plainer,
A woman of her age 1"

Isn't it extraordinary in a woman of
her years ?"

wonderful!"

Now I told you I threw myself on
your honour, and what I want you to dois
to keep the matter rigidly to yourself.

except ill such cases as you in your judgment
think silence would injure the Bank,
and then you must not reveal the facts
except upon a pledge of strict, the strictest
secrecy. No earthly consideration would
induce me to allow my poor mother's
name to become a byword in Daneford,
where she has been respected for so many
years. Aldridge, xHdridge, my friend, I
count on you to do this for me."

This time it was the manager who
stood up. He went to the banker, caught
his hand, and said : " You may count upon
me in this, Mr. Grey, as upon yourself. I
should be the last in the world to make
idle talk about the name of Grey, and
you may rely upon my keeping the secret
from everyone, except when the interest
of the Bank is at stake."

"" Thank you, my dear Aldridge. It
is a great relief to me to have opened
my mind to you. You are the only

man whose discretion I could trust in
so delicate a matter."

In a little while Aldridge took his
leave, and Grey was left alone.

By Jove," he mused, " that returned
letter was a splendid tonic. It pulled
me together like magic. I feel a new
man now — a new man. Now I have only
one person to take care of — myself. She
would not hear me. Because I tried to
save her the misery I myself endured,
because I represented things to her as
flourishing when all was gone, she turns
on me, throws me off, draws attention
to my credit and my reputation when I
should have neither if the truth were
known, if the lesser truth were known ;
and by opening up inquiry leading to
the discovery of the lesser truth, the
disclosure of the greater was risked.

By Jove, that returned letter was
my salvation ! She thought she was

treating me as I deserved, severely; all
the time lie was only nerving me to
lace my armour and prepare for the great
fight. I can easily provide now against
any course she may take short of denunciation,
and I don't think she will go sofar
as that.

The reason for the sale, as Aldridge
has heard it, will be known under pledges
of secrecy tomorrow to half-a-dozen of the
most important men in Daneford. That
will be more than enough to counteract
any sinister rumours. The pledge of
secrecy extracted from the men whom
Aldridge tells will not operate at all,
save in making those to whom they give
the news very careful as to whom they
in turn tell it. Thus it will never come
to her ears, even if she stays in Daneford,
which I doubt ; and thus she will never
have an opportunity of denying it."

He got up and walked about. His

elation was great. He swelled out his
chest, threw back his shoulders, and allowed
his arms to swing at his sides. His
thoughts ran on :

^' I have been fencing with death, and
for the moment I have disarmed my foe.
That sale might have ruined me, given me
over to the hangman ; I have averted the
danger, and turned the attack into a source
of security. In a moment of weakness I
told her, in a moment of strength I turned
the feeble act into a fresh rampart ; for how
can I tell, if think's went on smoothly, as
they had been going (had she not shown
the danger-signal at the Consols), I might
not, in the weak and pitiful state I then
was in, have told her all ? Now a gulf
lies between her and me. It is unlikely
we shall ever meet attain. She had the
power of exercising an influence over me
which might not be to my safety. I have
ensured my future safety by getting away

from the influence of the only person who
could make me indiscreetly talkative."

He paused in his walk and drew himself
up before the glass. Much of the
haggard expression had left his face. He
was flushed and handsome-looking as of old.
His eyes shone with excitement and the
anticipation of triumph.

Once more he strode up and down the
room.

'^ I feel five-and-twenty to-day. Five-and-twenty
; not a month older. And
though in spirits and health and strength
I feel no more than half my age, I am conscious
I carry the experience of a second
quarter of a century on the shoulders of
the first. I could command an army or
make love to a school-girl. I shall win
yet. I shall win in spite of that lanky
nigger, Sir William. I shall win I know,
I feel. These muscles are more than a
match for his ; this head is more than a

match for his ; and in spirits I am a long
way his junior. I shall win now, for all
obstacles are out of my way. She is gone

for ever, and she was the last link with

Bah ! the old time is dead. Earth to earth.
I am a new man, I say."

In all this he never thought of her as his
mother. He always looked upon her as she
or her ; never as mother. He treated her
as if the spirit of his mother had left the
body, and the spirit of another, a stranger,
had entered in.

That night he slept well, and started
early for the Castle the next day.

SIE WILLIAM " '' NO ; MIDHAEST."

^^ The day after tomorrow I must leave
Maud. I shall have to spend a day or two
in London, and then I sail."

He was looking down very gravely at
her.

She looked up gravely at him. ^' I wish
you had not to go away."

'^ So do I, but there is no help for it
I would much rather stay in England
and look after affairs here. You never
can trust anyone to carry out your
plans. You must see the men at work,
or they must know you may at any

moment see them. I have planted my
own designs and decorations, and tradesmen
consider it a point of honour to rob
an amateur. They will not do what an
amateur tells them, and they are sure
to cheat him most liberally. The father
of a friend of mine determined upon doing
up his house himself. He was not a
good man of business like me, but, like
me, he knew what he wanted done. He
made a rough estimate of what the job
would cost him, and when it was finished
he found the bills came to about three
times his estimate. He got an accountant
to look through the bills. The first item
the accountant called the attention of my
friend's father to was six white marble
chimney-pieces for bedrooms at two hundred
pounds each. He had told the builder
to get three chimney-pieces ; there were
places in the house for only three of
the sort. On investigation the builder

stated six lead been got, three having
been broken after arrival. ' But said
the accountant, ^ you have not allowed
anything for the old ones. AVhat did
they fetch ? ' ' Oh,' said the builder,
they fell to pieces, and I broke them
up.' Subsequently, when going over the
newly-built house of a friend, he found
two chimney-pieces, one like his old and
one like his new ones. 'Where did you
get these ? ' ' Bought them for a dead
bargain. Some man, who heard I was
building, sold me the old one for thirty-five,
and the new one for seventy.' The
visitor asked for a description of the seller.
It exactly corresponded with the builder.
Subsequently it came out that the new
chimney-pieces had been kept buried in
sand until they could be removed in a
cart under a load of straw, and that the
old ones had gone out covered with a
layer of rubbish ! "

^'Do you not think, William, that if
Mr. Grey would consent to look after the
men, such things might be prevented 1 "

Yes ; I have thought of asking Mr.
Grey. But he is such a busy man. He
will have, I daresay, a great deal to do
on account of your father's mil. It would
be too much to expect him to spare time
for coming down here and looking after a
lot of lazy workmen. In fact, it would
be out of the question. As to a clerk
of works, or anything of that kind, I
would not dream of such a thing. They
wink at scamped work for a consideration,
and order things they do not want. Dear
Maud, I weary you with lime-and-mortar
matter."

■" No, no, no ; I like to hear you talk
in this way. It is as if — as if — — " She
paused, unable for the moment to mould
her thoughts into words.

As if what, Maud ? "

"As if you liked to talk to me in
this way''

Her eyes were fixed on his, this on
hers. For a moment neither stoke. Then
he said :

*eyes, I do like to talk to you in this
familiar business-way. You know we are
alone now in the world ; and if I don't
talk freely to you, to whom else on earth
am ir'

'' I had a note from Mr. Grey this
morning, saying he has returned, and will
be here to - day. Had you not better
speak to him ? "

"I will. That is settled. If he
hesitates, I shall not allow him to do it ;
but I shall try what he will say. Even
if he refuses he may be able to suggest
some trustworthy person he knows. You
see, I have been so short a time in England,
and am such an utter stranger here, I know
no one."

VOL. III. 6

When Grey came lie found the cousins
together. Some routine matters having
been disposed of, Sir William asked the
banker if he would take a stroll with him
across the Island, as he wished to speak
to him about business.

The banker would be most happy.

Arm-in-arm the two left the Castle-yard,
gained the grass, and walked towards
the Ferry.

Mr. Grey," began the young man,
I leave this neighbourhood the day after
tomorrow."

I am sincerely sorry to hear you say so."

"Thank you. Now I am going to try
and induce you to let me get even further
into your debt "

Sir William, it is quite unnecessary
for you to say a word with such a view.
I told you to draw for any moderate sum
you might require, and your cheque
would be honoured "

'' I am much obliged to you ; but it
is not money this time."

Grey bowed. He wondered : '^ Has he
already proposed, and is he going to talk
to me about the will ? This looks bad."

*^ You know what rogues there are in
the world?"

I should think I do. I have excellent
cause to know of some kinds of
rogues," Grey said. He thought : " This
is becoming exciting — diverting."

The banker was in the most excellent
spirits this morning. He felt like an
unruly schoolboy when the holidays come.
He was beyond the arm of physical
punishment still, and the phase of mental
torture in which he had existed for sometime
had yielded to his present jovial
bravado. His old sense of the ridiculous
had returned upon him and expelled self-consideration.
While he felt profoundly the
necessity for precautions, he was careless

as to the means lie used, and inclined to
estimate nothing as more than a grim joke,
^' You see," continued Sir William,
^' now that I am leaving, I am going to
throw myself upon your indulgence and
good-nature. You and I have a lot of
waiting upon legal forms before we can
act officially or authoritatively in the new
positions we find ourselves."

"A lot of waiting upon legal forms,"
assented Grey ; and added mentally,
"Thank God!"

'^ But I suppose no one is going to
say I am not the right man."

You may build on that. I daresay "
with a bland humorous smile — " I daresay
few have greater interest in disputing
your identity (there can be no dispute of
your descent) than the representatives of
Miss Midharst ; and I " — with a bow and
deprecating wave of the long arms and
white hands — " have no such intention."

'^ That is all right. Well, now I want
to spend the most of that money you
were so kind as to advance me on this
place " — with a comprehensive sweep of
the hand taking in the Castle and all
the Island.

'' Quite so. I understood that from
you before. I do not think you
could do better with the money, Sir
William."

I am glad you approve. I not only
want your approval, but your co-operation
also. Will you help me ? "

To the utmost of my ability."

"I do not intend beginning for a
month or so ; but as I shall then be
away, I shall be unable to ensure the
carrying out of my plans unless I can
count on the friendly supervision, however
slight, of someone who would take
an interest in the work of renovation and
improvement — — "

"And," interrupted the banker with a
cordial smile, '' you wish to kno^Y if I
would undertake to see your wishes carried
out. Nothing in the world could give
me greater pleasure. I do not think you
could suggest anything I would more
gladly undertake."

Allow me to explain a little."

I assure you no explanation is
necessary."

Excuse me, I think it is. It would
be the height of impertinence in me to
ask you to do anything of the kind,
but "

But that you know I shall always
be only too glad to be of any service to
Sir William Midharst."

'you really overwhelm me with your
goodness. I feel very much at taking
such favours from one who has known me
so short a time."

'' Alien people are well met, good-feeling

ripens very quickly. Do you,
Sir AYilliam, believe in love at first
sight ? "

'^ Yes,'^ said the baronet, looking up
with an expression of surprise and
curiosity. "Why?" he asked, in a tone
of perplexity.

Because," answered the banker, " I
believe in friendship at first sight ; and,
if you will allow me to say so, I took a
most friendly interest in you from the
first moment I saw you and knew who
you were."

Indeed ! " murmured the young man,
in a tone of reverie. Then, with a faint
smile, he added : "I certainly thought we
waited a little time to understand one
another."

I have no doubt it appeared so to
you ; but I was impressed at the very
beginning. You must remember the
circumstances under which we met. I

lead no idea who you were, and I was
then under the impression the full responsibility
of Miss Midharst's guardianship
lay on me. In her interest I was
bound to be cautious. Believe me,
my theory of friendship at first sight
is quite as true as that of love at first
sight."

It may be — you may be right. I
have never considered the question before.
I was about to explain a few moments
ago that I could not think of asking you
to take any trouble in this matter, only
I know you will often be here to see
Miss Midharst on business, or through
kindness ; and I thought perhaps you
would not consider it too much trouble
to watch how these men poet on now and
then, once a fortnight or so."

'* Rely upon it I shall look after them
much oftener than that. You may put
your mind perfectly at rest, Sir William.

I have some knowledge of things of this
kind ; a banker meets all sorts of menas
customers, and picks up all sorts of
odds and ends of knowledge, so that
there is scarcely a trade or profession
I am not familiar with the roguish
side of."

^' I must extract one promise from
you."

"What is it?"

"That you will not put yourself to
any inconvenience in this matter."

I promise you most unhesitatingly.
A little change will do me good, and it
will be a most salutary change to comedown
here now and then and see how
things are going on."

"But you really need never come unless
you want to see Miss Midharst."

"Quite so."

They separated soon afterwards.

"What luck I have had!" thought

Grey, as he drove towards home. " To
think of how that young man played into
my hands is most amusing, quite comic.
He seemed to divine that I wanted an
excuse for being as much at the Castle
as possible. What more amj^le pleas for
o^oino' than that I have to confer with

Miss Midharst over matters connected
with her father's will, and have undertaken
to overlook the Avorks about
to be started by Sir William at the
Island 1 Stop ! That thought is worth
consideration."

For a few minutes he lay back in the
fly perfectly still, profoundly absorbed in
thought.

It's worth doing, and I'll do it," was
the concluding link in his thoughts.

'driver!"

'eyes, sir."

Back to the Ferry again. I have
forgotten something:. "

^'AU right, sir."

When he arrived at the Castle he
asked for the baronet, and found him at
once.

By the way. Sir William, a matter
of no absolute importance, but still of
some sentimental value to me, escaped
my memory when I was a while ago
saying good-bye to you, as I thought, for
some months."

"And what was that?"

You know there is no hurry about
Sir Alexander's will ? "

'^ How do you mean ?"

Well, nothing need be done about
it for months."

"What then?"

"You will be back in a few months,
less than six V

Let us hope so."

"Well, I shall do nothing about the
will until you come back. AVe can then

put our heads together and see what is
best for Miss Midharst's interest."

"I do not fully understand you, Mr.
Grey."

'what I intend doing is this' Grey
explained : "I am not bound to do anything
immediately about the will. I know
the will is all right. I will pay the
small legacies myself and get rid of them,
and when you come back you and I shall
go over the whole matter. I shall prove
the will and administer to the estate, and
then you and I will consult as to what
had best be done for Miss Midharst's
interests with the money."

"But what is your object in delay?"

Just a whim."

I hojDc, Mr. Grey," said the young-man,
with warm indignation, "you have
not for a moment fancied I do not think
you fully capable in every way of acting
in this matter ? "

The shadow of such a suspicion never
crossed my mind, I assure you, Sir William.
But cannot you understand that the
position I occupy of common friend to
the two who now compose the house
of Midharst would make me desirous
of having the advice of the head
of the house on important matters,
such as the disposal of Sir Alexander's
fortune ? "

The young man looked fixedly,
searchingly, at the banker's face for a
moment before he answered. When he
spoke, he replied with great deliberateness
:

There may be a good deal in what
you say."

"You give me your confidence. You
leave me to act as your deputy while
you are away. You, in a manner, place
yourself in my hands ; and you are content
with me as the guardian of your cousin's

fortune. You rely upon my integrity,
upon my honour. I feel the burden I
lie under. I should feel less weighed down
if you will accept my proposal as a small
sign of the esteem I hold you in, and of
my simple faith with regard to your
cousin's affairs."

The banker held out his hand. He
had made his speech in his old and best
manner.

The young man caught his hand swiftly,
eagerly.

Grey, I did not hope to find a manlike
you in you when wc met first. I
know what stuff you are made of
now. We shall be close friends while
we live."

Sir "William "

No ; Midharst."

"Midharst, we shall."

They parted.

When Grey found himself alone

once more, lie whispered to the leafless
trees :

Now, Mr. Prompter, ring clown the
drop. That's a very pretty end of the
fourth act."

THE PARTING.

Sir. William dined with this cousin that
day. He was to say good-bye to lier
that evening ; for, although he did not
intend leavings the neighbourhood before
the day after next, he had put off some
business until the last hour, and had been
compelled to give up his remaining day
to dry detail and humdrum affairs.

It was only latterly, within the past
few days — in fact, since he had come into
the neighbourhood of Daneford — he had
discovered dry detail and humdrum affairs.
Of old details had been to him fascinating,
and affairs a passion. When a new subject

came to his hand he devoured it. When
a novel situation presented itself, he dashed
at it as impetuously as a brave soldier at
a breach.

Now all was changed. When he saw
the Castle first his impulse was to set men
at work on it instantly. He wished to have
it put in order at once ; and nothing but
the appearance of indecent haste deterred
him from doing so. To-morrow he had
to meet, among others, the jDCople to
whom he had entrusted the work, and
he wished them all at the bottom of the
Weeslade.

^' I never knew until now I had such
a taste for rural scenery. When I was
away I used to think that if I got back
to England I should spend all my time
in London. Now the ^ Warfinger Hotel,'
overlooking the broad placid Weeslade,
seems to me all I could desire, with now
and then a visit to the Island — a stroll

VOL. III. 7

through its grounds and halls alone, or
with Cousin Maud.

'' How cool and fresh the air is around
here ! Coming into a place like this out
of the great cities of the world is like
escaping from a riotous street into a
cathedral where a choir is practising
hymns.

''I wonder does she sing'? I know
she loves pansies best of all the flowers.

But, as I was saying, it is strange
how one's most settled ideas change as
one grows older. Of course, that is but
natural. When I got that pony first I
thought all living creatures must admire
and envy me. There was only one thing
I envied of those around me, and that
was their privilege of standing and seeing
such a splendid sight as I and my pony
going past. I would freely have given all
my possessions, except my pony, for the
power of admiring on foot at the roadside

the fine spectacle I and my mount made
riding by.

Fancy Sir Alexander not keeping a
horse and groom for Maud ! He didn't
ride of late years, but that is no reason
why she should not. She can ride ; she
told me so. It is too bad to think of
the dark seclusion the poor girl has been
kept in. I wonder how she lived. Upon
my soul it was a shame I There all day
long, all the year round, in this gloomy
relic of the cold past, with no other
change than a few hours in this sleepy
place — this humdrum city of Daneford.
I am surprised she did not die. It was
enough to kill anyone. Fancy passing
a whole lifetime away in that old place
and this dull town ! Monstrous !

'^ Of course I shouldn't mind it, as I
was saying a moment ago, for I have been
in the world and seen as much as I want
to see. I should feel quite content to

live here always. I should never care for
anything better than a bed at the 'War-finger
Hotel and a stroll now and then
about the Midharsts' old place where the
Fleurs once lived, a sower in the state.
But Maud living here ! Monstrous !

I know what I'll do when I come-back
— I never thought of that before —
I'll get the house in St. James's Square
\mt in order, and she and Mrs. Grant
shall go up there, and someone will bring
out Maud, and she shall be the beauty of
the year. All the town will talk of the
lovely Miss Midharst. Then I can go and
stay at Warfinger and — and see to improvements,
and so on ; and then if Maud
Avant me she can write or telegraph.
I can fill up a telegraph-form with only
the word ' Come,' and she can keep it in
her purse and send it oft' the moment she
wishes to see me. I'll leave word at the
telegraph-office in Daneford, that anyone

bringing me that telegram in half an hour
shall have a sovereign.

I daresay I could have a wire to the
Island, so there need be no delay. But
it would look strange. I'll make the
messenger's fee five pounds, that will be
better.

I shall keep a portmanteau always
ready packed, so that there will be no
delay after getting the telegram. Even
supposing the telegram does not come fora
week or fortnight, I may run up to
London to see Maud and Mrs. Grant, and
make my mind easy about them.

'' While they are away I can have
alterations made. I can have all the repairs
and alterations done while I am in
Egypt overhauled and perfected. Maud
may like many things changed ; and, of
course, anything Maud wants to be done
shall be done. Of course. Fancy Maud
raying she would like something or other

done, and my saying, ' No, Maud ; I cannot
do that ! ' Fancy sncli a thing ! I
wish she would ask me for something
It is so dull to have nothing; to do for
Maud.

Before I knew Maud — it seems a
long time, and yet it is only a few
days : it is strange to think how long
ago my previous life seems — how much
time the past ten or a dozen days cover.
I have often seen painters, when they had
painted-in the solid objects of their pictures,
go over j^^^rts with thin transparent
colour, and, as if by magic, the ruin or
the mountain that a moment ago pressed
offensively forward retired into its proper
jilace in the composition, and gathered
round it mellow repose and forgetfulness.
This o'laze takes the heat and worry out
of the picture. It gives it moist jDerfumo
and collected dignity. The few days I
have spent here have acted like the glaze

on the substantial background of facts in
my past life. Why?

"Why? Never mind why; I am content.
I like the coUectedness that has
come ujDon me. It cannot arise from the
title or the estates. I am leaving all
the money behind me, and for all practical
purposes the title also. When I go
away I shall be nothing more than a
Government clerk in the foreign service.
AVhen I get there, the few Europeans
I know may not have heard of Sir
Alexanders death. It is not the title
or the money. What has done it ?

Before I knew Maud I always
fancied anyone called Maud should be
young and fragile and exquisitely fair ;
and my Maud (she is mine, for are we
not of the one house ?) is young and
fragile and exquisitely fair.

Maud.

What a musical name it is ! The

lips and ears never tire of it. The oftener
you say it the more beautiful it seems.
It is a name you must speak softly. You
cannot shout it out or fancy yourself
saying it angrily. Imagine for a moment
my speaking angrily to my Maud I .

Speaking angrily to Maud 1 The
mere supposition is like a blow. Maud
is sanctified to me doubly, as being; the
last daughter of our family, and as being
friendless.

^^ When I go away I shall leave my
fortune and my title behind me. Shall
I leave anything else ? Yes, everything
else. Maud.

If I leave my fortune and my title
and Maud behind me, what do I take
with me ?

'^ Nothing; worth the carriage.

Bounteous God, I thank Thee withall
my heart, and all my soul, and all
the faculties of my nature, for having

given love to man, and having given
me to love ! "

The evening of the day Grrey had
visited the Island after his return from
London, the two cousins sat alone in
the little drawing-room after dinner.

Maud, will you take great care
of yourself while I am away ? " he asked
very earnestly.

She was sitting by a small ebony table
in front of the fire. He reclined in an
easy-chair at the opposite side of the
grate.

She looked up with a childish amused
smile, and answered :

Yes ; I will try and take care of
myself while you are away. This is a
very safe place to live in. No one can
get near us without a boat, and everyone
knows that a farmer's house would be
better for thieves than Island Castle."

And yet, Maud, though no man

come, something very precious might be
stolen by a thief while I am away." He
spoke gravely, with that old far-away
look in his eyes.

"And who is the thief, and what is
the thing ? " she asked, with a bright
smile.

Ruffian Death," he answered, for a
moment overwhelmed by some dark dread
and chilling foreboding.

She grew paler in her black dress ;
the hand resting on the table seemed
whiter than life.

But, William, I am quite well ; I
never felt better in all my life ; and
I think, considering what has lately
happened, that is very wonderful." She
was anxious, and looked into his face
.with eyes of grave solicitude.

Still he was following up the chain
of his thoughts, and for the moment,
unaware, he uttered them :

"There is death in every day, danger
in every hour ; you must encounter the
danger. The way in which you meet the
danger decides your relations with death.
Life is a series of compromises with
death. I wish I were not going away."

So do I, indeed, William," she said
earnestly. "But you must not be uneasy
on my part ; I am quite well, and shall
keep quite well while you are away. I
should be most unhappy if I thought
sou went away uncomfortable on my
account."

The tone of the otI's voice brought
him back to a consciousness of the
situation. His manner changed. He
looked up at her and smiled.

Unhappy about you, Maud ! Not
I. You must not think that. I was
talking generalities ; I was not alluding
to your case. You see, when a man has
been a long time in a foreign country.

where the speech of the people in the
streets is unknown to him, and where,
among the few people who speak European
languages, there are only a couple for
whose society he cares, he falls into one
bad habit certainly, that of looking at all
things in the abstract ; and into another
bad habit probably, that of muttering
aloud to himself. I am afraid I have
been treating you to a small example of
both vices." He smiled brightly, and
held out his hand to her.

She took the small white hand off the
ebony table and placed it in his. The
brown fingers closed over the white ones,
and looking down at the joined hands he
said :

"' Like the rough brown sheath of the
cocoa-nut, and the snow-white fruit within."

What ? "

My hand round yours."

She said nothing.

He released her hand.

"You will take care of that hand,
Maud, while I am away ? Some time
someone will value that hand more than
the regalia in the Tower. It will be to
him above all price. He would like to set
guards over it as they set guards over the
royal jewels, and yet would allow no one to
act as sentinel but himself."

Such talk was new to her. She did not
say anything.

'' We have grown good friends in the
few days we have been meeting one
another ?"

"Oh, yes."

"The best of friends ? "

"The best of friends."

And all the time I am away you will
never cease to think of me as your pest
friend ? "

"Never."

It almost made her cry, she could not

tell wiry, to hear him asking such a
question.

And should you })e in any need of aid
or advice, you will let me kno^r at once ? "

At once."

There was a pause during which Mrs.
Grant entered the room.

The baronet got up, and sitting down
beside the widow, said to both the women :

I had a chat with Mr. Grey to-day
apropos of my going, and nothing could
have been nicer or more gratifying. He is,
without exception, the most straightforward
and honourably-minded man I have ever
met. He has, Mrs. Grant, not only undertaken
to keep his eye on the workmen when
they come here, but he has without any
hint or suggestion on my part, proposed
not to do anything final with Maud's
fortune until I return. And, in addition
to all this, he will pay all the legacies
out of his own pocket and at his own risk.

Maud, I cannot say how grateful I am that
you Lave fallen into such excellent hands.
You may place yourself wholly under his
direction while I am away. You need not
consult me on any subject of business ;
you will be quite safe with him, and he
has a thousand times mv knowledge of
business."

'^ Did I not tell you so ? " asked Mrs.
Grant of Miss Midharst.

Yes," answered Maud softly.

What was it ? " asked the baronet,
turning with a gratified smile towards the
widow.

'' I told dear Maud long ago that she
might have full confidence in Mr. Grey,"
answered Mrs. Grant, with lively self-satisfaction.


And you told her what was perfectly
true. I must go now. I shall not see you
again, Mrs. Grant, until I come back from
Egypt. I cannot tell you how happy it

makes me to know low good, low loyal
Maud's two friends are — yourself and Mr.
Grey."

He had shaken both Maud's hands, and
kissed her lips for the first time, and
shaken hands with Mrs. Grant, and was
gone.

Her cousin William was prone, and she
should not see him ao;ain for months.
What a pity he had to go ! When he was
by her side, or in Daneford, she felt quite
safe : nothings could harm her while he
was near. When her father died she had
felt alone and cold in the world. She
had been susceptible to attack on all sides.
She had no confidence in herself; and
although Mr. Grey had done everything
man could do for her, she owned no claim
upon him.

But this cousin, this man of lier
own family, who, finding her timid
and unguarded, sought the privilege of

shielding lier from the world and the
bleak unknown lying beyond Island Castle
was a new experience, a delightful
improvement on the present.

But no sooner had she learned to
lean upon his reassuring strength than
he must hurry away. What a pity !

Her cousin William would come Ixack,
no doubt ; but Egypt was far off, very
far off, and the power of his protection
was reduced greatly by distance.

Why should she think she would
need protection of any kind ? Surely
Mrs. Grant and Mr. Grey were protection
enough in a quiet well-ordered place like
Daneford and its neighbourhood ?

Yes ; but Cousin William had been
more than a protector ; he had been a
companion as well, and there was something
in his talk and manner neither
Mrs. Grant nor Mr. Grey possessed. She
was always content with what Mrs. Grant

VOL. III. 8

said, or what Mr. Grey said. Their words
always exhausted the topic ; but when he
had spoken she felt led on to wonder
what lay behind and beyond what lie
had said.

She had told Mrs. Grant truly he had
interested her ; and although he always
had spoken to her as though there could
be no question of the supremacy of his
will over hers, she liked that.

When Mrs. Grant told her to do a
certain thing, the doing of it was dry and
uninteresting. When Cousin William had
told her to do a thing, she always did it
wit]i the sound of his voice in her ears ;
or she had thought what mystery of Egypt
he had before his eyes when he gave her
the command ; or she had tried to fathom
his mind as to the manner in which ho
would best like to see the thing done.

But now all was cold and monotonous
and dull. Eeally the replace had got so quiet

of late that lie found lier chief delio;lit
in her old books of Egypt, and in the
geography of that country, and in following
on the map the overland route he
had taken to Africa.

BETWEEN THE LIGHTS.

The day Henry Walter Grey bade good-bye
to the young baronet he went home to the
Manor House in the best spirits.

That Latest stroke of his had proved
marvellously successful. In fact, the result
completely astonished him. Sir William,
had been civil, polite, conciliatory to him
up to that last interview. During it the
young man had thrown aside all reserve
and rushed into his arms with enthusiasm.
This young man, of whom he had stood
in dread a few days ago, had been not
only neutralised, but converted into a friend.

And at what cost ? The voluntary

promise that lie, Grey, would take no steps
about the will until the return of the
head of the house. What a transcendent
joke ! There was nothing like it on the
stage. Nothing approaching it. He had
won the young man by undertaking not
to invest money already stolen and made
away with !

And how had he done it ? Not by
worrying and sneaking and shivering and
anticipating all kinds of evils ; not by
thinking; and attending: to his own fears
and hopes connected with matters which
had been done and could not be undone.
No ; but by thinking of what other people
might do adverse to him, and trying to
out-manoeuvre them. The general who,
upon hearing the enemy is advancing, does
nothing lout contemplate the horrors of
defeat, will inevitably be defeated. It is
with matters of business as with a general
in the field — to provide against nothing

but defeat is to ensure defeat and final
disaster. To dread a disease is to open
the door for its reception.

Away then for ever with doubts and
fears ! He was still a player in the game.
It was a game of skill, and he must win.
The way to win is never to think of
yourself or of the result of winning or
losing, but to concentrate every human
faculty upon the game itself, and the
plans for effecting the defeat of your
opponents.

And now how did his great game
stand ? Let him see.

Sir William Midharst would be away
in Egypt some while, some months, say
three to four months, during which time
it was necessary to win, by any means
he could employ, this girl Maud. He was
the guardian of her fortune and the superintendent
of works about to be carried on
at the Castle. This gave him not an

excuse so much as a command to be
frequently there. Thus he should have
excellent opportunities of pressing his suit.
He was to consult Miss Midharst upon
alterations, et cetera ; and that supplied
the means of obtaining frequent and long
interviews with her in-which they should
often be alone. Good, very good !

He felt strong and healthy and capable.
His illness had cleared away the confusion
which had been gathering round him ; he
slept better of nights, and awoke cheerful.

He knew he should be able to interest
Maud, and to interest a woman is to win
her. Those solemn, lank, poetical men,
like the new baronet, took such a time
to make up their minds, that a man of
sanguine temperament like himself won a
woman before one like Sir William determined
on the first sigh. Girls don't like
sighs ; they prefer laughter. Good I

The Bank was all right now, and when

lie had mamecl Maud there was no one
to come and pry into matters. Everyone
would think by his marriage with
her he had acquired upwards of half a
million ; and for a man in his position to
have the reputation of riches is almost as
good as to have riches. Splendid !

He had provided against injury arising
out of that sale of the lease and furniture
and annuity. He had not been in a
position to resist his mother. He knew
that, having made up her mind to sell,
she would sell, no matter what it cost
her feelings. She would threaten to
denounce him rather than be baulked in
doing what he supposed she intended
with the money. He did not think she
would have ozone the leno;tli of denouncing
She had done worse. She had
shown herself indifferent to anything he
might have to say. She could not know
but that letter of his told her he liatl

paid back all the money, or that it contained
a plea for a short respite. She
had not cared what happened to him ;
and he — he had taken means to protect
himself. He did not feel angry with
her in the least. He had simply cut her
off from his mind. There was no such
person any longer. That returned letter
informed him of her death. Those documents
he had signed for her were announcements
of her decease. That auction bell
would ring for the interment of the past
and the future which had of late given
him trouble. With her went everything
he loved. He was alone now, fjice to face
with his fate, and free from any unmanning
influence or depressing considerations. This
was best of all !

As to the other and greater danger,
that was scarcely worth counting. So far
there had not been the shadow of menace.
Farleg had, no doubt, got out of the

country, and was now settled with this
wife somewhere out West. No reason
existed for supposing Farleg would betray
him ; for he had taken hush-money, and
no reward had been offered, as nothing
had been suspected. No ; he need not fear
that source. Only one thing remained to
be done. He had shaken off those superstitious
terrors which had haunted him fora
while. He was still menaced by the
cancelled pages in London ; that was
the only danger ahead. All his energy
for the future should be directed towards
avoiding the consequences of his theft.

The day Sir William left Daneford Grey
sjDcnt at the Bank. His private correspondence
and such account-books as he himself
kept, to which no one but himself had
access, were in arrears, and had to be
brought up to the current day. He had
to give a long audience to Mr. Aldridge,
and several merchants wanted to see him.

SO that the hours were fully occupied, and
when he got home he felt tired ; it was
dark, and he resolved not to go to the
Island until the early part of the next
afternoon.

Ashen next day he got to the Castle,
he found Mrs. Grant in the great hall
about to go out.

I am lucky to meet you, Mrs. Grant.
If you are not in a great hurry I should
like a few words with you."

'' Certainly, Mr. Grey ; I shall be
most happy. I am going to town for a
few things Miss Midharst and myself
want. I have not been out since poor
Sir Alexander's death ; but I'm in no
hurry."

They were now in the open air.

'^ I hope Miss Midharst is quite well?"

Quite well, thank you."

*' And not pining after her handsome
cousin ? " with a ^^y smile.

handsome! Do you too think him
handsome ?"

'' Yes. But who else thinks him
good-looking ?" with a still brighter smile.

*' Miss ]\Iidharst says he is one of the
handsomest men she ever saw."

Upon my word I am inclined to
believe with her." This was accompanied
by the brightest smile of all. " It is
useful to know what she thinks of her
cousin's appearance," thought Grey gravely.

Well, Mr. Grew, I can see nothing
about him. I like an Englishman
to look like an Englishman ; but I
forgive him his looks because of his
good behaviour. Nothing could have
been better than his conduct from first
to last. He makes Miss Midharst stay
here ; he promises to do up the Castle
and grounds ; and last of all, Mr. Grey,
he speaks of you before he goes away
in words which do him credit."

Indeed ! "

Yes. Nothing could have been more
manly than the way he spoke his mind
to Miss Midharst and myself about you the
other evening, the last day you were here.
I don't think he liked you at first ; but
he made up for that at last. Nothing
could be better than what he said."

I am glad to find he does not
misunderstand me." These were two
useful and significant facts : that Maud
thought her cousin good-looking, and
that her cousin had been favourably
impressed by him. 'mrs. Grant," he
said, after a pause, '' you said you were
going to town to buy some things for
yourself and Miss Midharst."

'' Yes."

'' Will you have the goodness to put
this parcel in your purse ? It is what
you are entitled to under the will of
Sir Alexander."

He held out his hand to her with a
bundle of notes.

I really don't want it now, Mr.
Grey," she said, remembering what Sir
William had told her.

They had already reached the Ferry -
slip. He held out his hand to her.
She held out the notes to him. He
smiled, shook his head, shrugged his
shoulders, and said :

Give me your hand only. I want
to help you into the boat. Put that
bundle in your pocket. I hope you do
not think I want it."

He handed her into the boat, raised
his hat, and, when the ferryman had
pulled a dozen strokes from the slip,
raised his hat again and turned towards
the Castle.

As he walked he thought : *' That is
not the worst investment I ever made.
Prompt payment and attention go a long

way with women who are no longer
young. Now for a woman who is young
and charming."

'' What an agreeable man Sir William
is !" said Grey, when he had been sometime
seated with Maud. " So affable,
good-natured, and amusing. He is one
of the most pleasant young men I ever
met''

'' I am glad you like him," said Maud,
a little surprised.

Like him ! Of course I do. He is
a man after my own heart. So open-minded
and full of go, of animal spirits.
You very seldom find a man who has been
long out of Europe retain his animal
spirits. The inhabitants of Asia and
Africa are always afraid of sunstroke or
snakes, tigers or tyrants. In the tropics
no one ever makes a joke. Life is always
serious there. Who ever heard of an
Eastern Joe Miller ? No ; they have

proverbs and poetry, Jut no jokes. When
you are always expecting to find a snake
coiled round the leg of the table, or an
official waiting outside the door with a
drawn Savor to cut off your head, you
are afraid to laugh. Now what I admire
most in Sir William is that, although he
has been long in Africa, he has kept his
animal spirits unimpaired. Isn't it a great
blessing?"

"Yes," answered Maud, in amazement.

I know it is not what very straitlaced
people would like, but the views he holds
of all serious things are most diverting. I
am very sorry I had to go away while he
was here. It is such a privilege to meet
a man like him — a man of the world who
knows everything, and can laugh at the
weaknesses and follies of the world, under
which heads of weaknesses and follies he
classes much of what smug respectability
calls the Generous and Noble Aspirations of

Men. I will not say I hold his
views, but I hold my sides when he
tells them. Did you hear any of his
stories?"

"No, Mr. Grey," answered Maud,
ready to cry. Was there really this
other, this light and frivolous side to
her cousin's character ? She could hardly
believe it. Yet here was Mr. Grey
telling her about it, and ,no one could
think of doubting Mr. Grey's word.

"Ah! Quite so. Yes. It is likely
he thought you might not care for them.
They might seem profane to you. I
have been most unwise. I felt sure he
had told them to you. He might be
displeased with me if he knew I had
mentioned them to you. Will you
promise not to allude to them when
you speak or write to him ? I daresay
he will write to you, and you will write
to him."

VOL. III. 9

He promised to write, and I promised
to write to him."

What a revelation was in the banker's
words ! Could it be her cousin had two
sides ? If it was so, where did the
insincerity end ? This was a miserable
discovery after she had lifted him up in
her mind as a perfect model of what a
man should be. •

Of course you will rate to your
guardian and your only cousin ; but
mind you are not to say anything
about what I have l)een saying to you.
I should not mind speaking of it to
him in your presence, but a thing of
that kind in black and white looks
very bad. Have you heard from him

yet?"

Yes ; I got a note saying he was
about to set off. It was written
yesterday."

Her face looked wan and weary. It

was clisenclianting to hear all this of
Cousin William. How could it be?

^'A bad sign. A very bad sign,"
tbouo'ht the banker. "But we must bea
match for him. We must be a match
for him. No precaution shall be neglected."
Then he said aloud : " I shall be very
often at the Castle now; for not only
shall I have to come and see you, but
I am also to look after the workmen
for Sir William, so that I fear you will
have to make up your mind to endure
a great deal of me."

''I shall be very glad to see you
every day. But I think you are doing
too much for me — for us."

"Miss Midharst, you must understand
once for all that there is absolutely
nothing in my power I am not anxious
to do for you personally."

He said this with great emphasis and
precision, raising his right hand slightly

towards the ceiling while lie spoke, as
tlioiioii calling; Heaven to witness his
words.

She did not know what to say. There
was an earnestness in his manner forbidding
commonplace thanks.

His face suddenly lightened.

•' I was about to say that either I ora
messenger from the Bank will be here
every day, and whoever comes can take
any orders you and Mrs. Grant may have
for town. This will save Michael's goings
in so often. I will get you a letter-bag.
You shall keep one key and I the other,
so there will be no danger of letters getting
lost. In old times Michael was, of course,
as safe as the post ; but now we shall have
comparative strangers — clerks and so on —
whose honesty has not been so well tried
as Michael.

Soon he took his leave. Next day he
did not call, but a clerk came with a letter-bag

and a key. There was nothing in the
bag. Miss Miclharst had no letters. One
from Mrs. Grant went back to town. That

was all.

When the clerk got to the Bank,
he handed the bag to the banker. The
banker opened it, glanced at the one
letter it contained, smiled, put Mrs.
Grant's among his own letters for post,
and whispered to himself: "Everything
is fair in love and war. If this had
been Maud's, I should have had just one

peep."

Now he began to visit the Castle almost
daily. The men had not yet been set
to work, but already the furniture makers
and upholsterers were busy in the workshops.
Hangings had been ordered at
Paris ; designers were carrying out plans
for restoring the great banqueting-hall
to its olden splendour; brass-founders
were casting fittings ; and gardeners had

inspected the grounds with a view to
ascertaining their capabilities.

At first Grey made it a point not to
see Maud every time he called. By the
end of a month he was at the Island six
days out of the seven, and never left
without seeing her.

During that month she had twice
Tvrritten to her cousin. He had carried
the letters from her to the Bank, and
there opened and read them. He closed
them and sent them on. There had been
nothing particular in either, beyond
copious praise of Grey's great kindness.
to her, and his ceaseless attention to the
business of her cousin.

So far all went well. He continued
in good spirits, and the people of Daneford
said he had never looked better or seemed
gayer.

His mothers place had been sold out,
and she had gone he knew not whither.

'that is all the better," he thought.
The stage is clearer, and nothing remains
to distract my attention from the main
thing."

He had been very cautious in his
interviews with Maud. He had said or
done nothing which could give her a hint
of his aim. He had been good-humouredly
and sedulously careful to do all she wished
as she wished it done. He had taken
her and Mrs. Grant for drives in quiet
country places, where the freshness of
their mourning would be free from observation
and remark. On these occasions,
although Maud occupied the seat of
honour, he was more attentive to her
companion.

But the time for winning had a limit,
and at the end of the first month he
gradually changed his manner.

When they met he gazed into her
eyes longer and with more interest than

of yoi'e. He pressed her hand more
warmly, and retained it longer. His voice,
when he spoke to her, was lower and
softer. His solicitude for her health
gained daily, and when they walked out
into the grounds together, he chose for
her the easiest ways, and showed his
anxiety that her feet should not touch
the wet grass, or the ragged brambles
her face or figure.

He prolonged his visits. He always
found an excuse for setting; her out into
the grounds, or into some room wherefor
a time they might be alone. When
parting from her, he would say, if no one
was by :

'^ I am sorry I must leave now. I am
sorry I am obliged to go back to Daneford
and that lonely Manor. I wish I could
stay here."

And she would say :

I am sure, if you will stay, sirs.

Grant will make you comfortable. But
you lose too much time for us."

He would answer :

"No. Oh no, clear Miss Midharst.
The only pleasant time I have now is
when I am here, in your society, trying
to make this place better for you."

Then he would say good-bye impressively,
and move off with a dejected look,
and turn round, when he had taken a
few paces, and weave his hand to her in a
way that said : " Do not grieve because
I am sad. I am nobody."

This manner set the girl pondering,
and she said to the widow one day :

Mrs. Grant, I think living all alone
in that house, where his wife was once,
is bad for Mr. Grey."

There is no doubt of it, my child.
It will kill him, I am sure. He ought
to marry again soon."

Marry again soon ! " cried the girl

in surprise. The idea that he might marry
again had never suggested itself to her
mind, and it seemed very wonderful.

Yes, my dear. He's a young man.
A. much younger man than many men
of thirty."

"I know he is very amusing, but I
had never before thought of iVIr. Grey
marrying again."

To Maud the idea was not only novel,
but a little shocking; at first. She had
been in the habit of classing him with
her father. Now for the first time she
had come to think of him as a man who
was not only not nearly so old as her
father, but relatively young.

All at once the recent change in his
manner towards her struck her, and, little
as had been her experience of the world,
or her knowledge of its ways, she could
not but see a desire on Mr. Grey's part
to be particularly agreeable to her. This,

coupled with the fact that she could no
longer retard him as a man the events
of whose life were merely awaiting the
final audit to be posted into the eternal
ledger, made her feel an awakened interest
in him. He was a new man, an
individuality hitherto unexplored.

Another thing struck her at the same
time.

Her cousin, whom she had taken asa
grave, serious-minded, chivalric soul,
turned out to have two sides to his
character. When not with her, he could
be light, trivial, profane.

The banker also had two sides to his
character. He was robust, honest, jovial,
in general. But at home sorrow and
loneliness were eating him away in the
house where once he had been happy with
the wife so suddenly taken from his side.

What a strange discovery ! Were all
men who were not as old as her father

double-sided like these? She should not
like to ask even Mrs. Grant that question.
Then what a contrast did these two men
afford : the one assuming or wearing naturally
towards her the manner of earnest
collectedness, while towards others he showed
questionable levity ; the other showing hera
steady brightness, while in reality his
heart was consumed by a great sorrow I
Were all men like these ? How wonderful
it seemed !

The contrast revealed to her by these
two men first aroused Maud Midharst to
perceive men's minds and ways differed
widely from the minds and ways of women.
Of old she had known men were stronger
than women, had greater capacity for
affairs, more knowledge of the world and
more wisdom. Until now she had never
reached the fact that there were in the
minds of men faculties differing; from those
of women, not only in quality and intensity,

luit also in kind. Instantly her
wonder at the superiority of men left her
She no longer felt astonished at disparity
between mental faculties common to men
and women. She suddenly awakened to
a curiosity never felt before. She was
now interested in all things which enabled
her to discover where the thoughts of men
differed from the thoughts of women.

When she had heard her cousin speak
on the day her father was buried, she had
felt surprise and interest. What he said
had given her a pleasant shock. Now she
had gone a post farther on the great road
of life. She had learned to speculate.

"a woman of no name."

One clay when Maud was sitting alone in
the library by the fire reading, a servant
entered with word a lady who declined
giving any name wished to see Miss
Midharst. She was, the servant said, a
thin, tall, old lady, dressed in black.

No ladies called at the Castle. What
could this woman want ? Maud wondered.
Who could she be ? A tall, thin, old lady,
dressed in black. Had she asked by name
for Miss Midharst ?

Yes ; she said she wanted to see Miss
Midharst. I asked her would Mrs. Grant

do, and she said Sto, she wanted to see Miss
Midharst alone."
"Alone?"
Alone."

Who could it be ? The last person who
had asked to see her and declined to o-ive
a name was William. (She would write
to William to-day and tell him what she
thought. It was a strange thing for her to
have to write to him. But she did not
know what to do. William \yas her only
friend. She was afraid to speak to Mrs.
Grant about it. If she mentioned the
matter to Mrs. Grant, no one could tell but
it might get back to Mr. Grey's ears, and
that would never do. Never.) Ah, the
servant is waiting yet.
"Where is the lady?"
In the hall-room, madame."
"Tell her I will come to her at

once."

Maud rose slowly and put down her

book. As lie moved along the corridors,
she thought :

This is most unpleasant, it is terrible.
My father is not yet two months dead, and
Mr. Grey's manner frightens me. At first
I did not notice it, but now — now I can
have no doubt. He has not said anything
plain yet, but he can mean nothing else.
He calls me Maud, and not Miss Midharst.
He takes my hand, too, when we are alone,
and looks in my eyes and frightens me.
His eyes are queer. When he is looking at
me he seems suddenly to forget who I amor
where he is. It is only within the past
week I noticed this ; and yesterday he
looked at me with those awful eyes, and
begged me to be good to him and come, for
God's sake, and take the thing away from
the dark passages and the doorways. Then
he asked me if I smelt blood, and burst out
laughing, and said all this was part of a
play he was writing. Judas Iscariot, the

hero of his phil ! AVhat a horrible
thought ! "

She reached the hall-room. It had
long ago been used by the family as a
breakfast-parlour when few guests were at
the Castle ; for many years it had been
made a waiting-room.

Maud opened the door and entered.
The day was cold, and she directed her
glance first towards the fire. No one
was there, but she saw standing with her
back to the window a tall, thin, old
woman.

The stranger did not move. She fixed
her eyes on Maud, and stood staring at
the girl.

Maud moved slowly and timidly up the
room. When within a coujdIc of yards of
the other she said :

'^ I am Miss Midharst. You wish to
see me. Will you not take a chair near
the fire '? "

VOL. III. 10

Yes, I wanted to see you. I want to
see you."

She did not move. Her voice was firm
and hard, with a tone of menace in it.

*^ I — I cannot recall your face, and the
servant did not bring your name."

"We never met before. The servant
did not bring you any name, for I have
none. I am a woman of no name."

'' A woman with no name ! " cried
Maud, with a feeble attempt at a smile.
There was no provocation for smiles in
the words or manner of the unknown,
and Maud felt uneasy.

*eyes; I once had an honourable name,
and was connected with honourable people
who bore it. But that name was dishonoured
by one who owned it, and the
name died. My name would not live
dishonoured." The voice was firm and
hard still, and the original pose unbroken.

I am sorry for that," murmured

Maud, not knowing anything else to say.
What a contrast between this unknown
visitor and the former ! And yet, although
-a strong contrast appeared, there was a
subtler similarity.

'rand I am sorry for you."

Maud started and repeated : *' Sorry
for me ! Why are you sorry for me ? "

'' Because you are young. I used
once, until lately, to think it a privilege
to be young ; now I consider it a
privilege to be very old or dead."

Maud felt more and more uncomfortable.
This was not a cheerful way of
looking at things. Maud had quite enough
unpleasant matters to occupy her mind,
and she was cjuite unstrung. What business
had this woman with her ? She would
try. She spoke somewhat tremulously :

"Can I be of any use to you?"

"No. Nor can I be of much to you."

"To me!" said Maud in surprise. "I

hope no one has been asking you to do
anything unreasonable for me. Of course,
as I did not know you until noah, and
never heard your name, you will excuse
my not thanking you for what you may
have done for me."

I have done nothing for you but
evil."

Evil ! I assure you you must be
mistaken. No one has done me harm, as
far as I know."

But there may be evil you do not
know of, and I may have been the innocent
cause of it."

"But if you were innocent you must
not trouble yourself about it ; and besides,
whatever the harm was, it has not hurt
me, so that you must make your mind
easy."

The evil may be done, and yet unfelt,
and may be felt later on, and the evil
may not be done yet."

I do not clearly understand yon."

"I do not intend you should. I do
not know wliy I have spoken so much.
I cannot say more. I have merely called
to deliver into your hands a parcel of
some consequence. The contents of this
parcel is yours. I said I cannot do much
for you. I can do no more than give
you this. You must promise me not to
open this parcel until tomorrow morning.
You need not be afraid of it. The things
in it are good things. You promise ? "
The woman held out her hand with a
small parcel in it.

Yes," answered Maud, taking the
parcel.

At that moment the door opened, and
a voice said :

I beg your pardon. Miss Midharst ;
I did not know there was anyone here."

Maud turned round, and saw Henry
Walter Grey smiling and bowing in the

doorway. With the lianclle of the door
still in his hand, he took a backward
step, when the old woman said :

Come in. I have finished with Mis
Midharst.

At the sound of the voice Grey sprang
back a step, thrust his head forward, and
uttered a low cry of surprise and pain.

Maud moved towards him, saying :

Are you ill, Mr. Grey ? Are you
ill ? "

His face was shrivelled and his mouth
hung open.

Before Maud could take another step
the hand of the old woman was on her
shoulder, and the voice of the old woman
was in her ear, firm and hard as before :

Remember your promise! Good-bye."

With erect head, bright eyes, and a
quick step, the stranger walked to the
door, on the outside of which Grey
stood paralysed. He bowed and groaned

as she approached, and as she passed
him he crouched against the walsh

swept by him without looking
at him, turned the corner of the corridor
and passed out of sight.

Maud, transfixed with amazement,
stood where the old woman had arrested
her.

When the stranger had disappeared,
Grey made a prodigious effort, shook
himself, assumed a sickly smile, and
straightened his fissure.

The action of the banker dissolved the
stupefaction of the girl, and she moved
rapidly towards the door to escape. Just
as she reached it the manner of the man
suddenly changed. His face became dark
and threatening, and he bounded into
the doorway, barring the exit and crying :

'' Stop ! I must speak with you before
you leave the room ! "

The girl recoiled in terror, and began

i

with *'Mr. Grey!" in a tone of fear and
expostulation.

Go back. I say I must speak with
you before you leave this room !"

She struggled with herself for a
moment, and then summoned courage
enough to begin with :

'•'By what right, Mr. Grey "

By any right or by any wrong
you must sneak with me. Do I look
like a child, or a fool, or a woman?"

His manner was vehement and overpowering.
For an instant she resolved
to defy him, but by a powerful sweep
of his arm he indicated that denial was
out of the question. With a palpitating
heart and confused head she stepped
hack into the room.

He followed her and locked the door.
When she heard him do this her streno-th
gave way altogether, and she sank on a
chair.

He walked up and down the room
some time before lie spoke.

"Tell me, what did that wretched
woman say to yon ? What was her
business with you ? What brought her
here'

She told me she had wronged me
innocently."

"How?"

"She would not say."

AVhat do you mean, girl ? Do you
dare to tell me she said she had wronged
you and did not tell you how ?" He
drew up in front of her chair.

"Yes."

Is that a lie ? "

"Is what a lie?"

Have you, girl, told me a lie ? "

"Mr. Grey, I- "

Girl, I will have no pretty sentiments !
I am talking business now. Such business
as you never even heard of. You may

not know the results hanging on your
words. Did that wretched woman tell
you the injuries she had done you ? "

"She did not." Maud felt she should
faint.

Listen to me now, girl : this is
business. Attach ten thousand times more
value to the answers you are going to
make me than to any other answers you
gave in all your life. My question is :
What names did she mention ? "

^' None. She mentioned no name."

'' Absolutely and literally no name *? "

She mentioned no name."

'' Not even her own "? "

Not even her own."

But you know, of course, who she
is?"

I never saw her before. I do not
know who she is."

^' The servants know her name."

Jordan told me a lady wished to

see me in private. He did not know
her name."

Are you sure of all this ? "

'eyes."

What was her business with you ? "

She left me that packet on the
table."

Did she say nothing about it *? "

"That it contained something of mine,
.and that I was not to open it until
tomorrow morning."

Is that all ? "

"That is all."

Swear it to me."

"Mr. Grey!"

I know ; but swear all the same."

I will not."

Then you have been lying."

I have not. How dare you say such
a thing, Mr. Grey!"

"Well, there, Maud, dear Maud, let
us drop the comedy. I am afraid I have

carried it too far already. You know
really who the poor creature is ? "

I have told you I do not."

She is a harmless old woman who
is mad on religion, and goes about doing
this kind of thing, and leaving bundles
of tracts like this." He took up the
parcel off the table. ^' She must not be
allowed in here again. I will give orders
that she shall not be admitted. And
now can you guess the reason for my
comedy ? "

I cannot."

*' It was, dear Maud, because I heard
to-day there is some chance of the will
being disputed, and I wanted to try how
you would go through the ordeal of a
severe cross-examination. And I must
say, anything to equal my Maud's admirable
coolness I never saw. You did
not for a moment flxncy I was in
earnest?"

'' I don't know what I thought. I
was greatly frightened."

Well, I admit I did go too far. But
it was in your own interest, dear Maud —
in your own interest. You are all right
again, dear Maud ? "

He took her hand in his.

I feel a little nervous and hysterical.
Please open the door and let me go''

Certainly ; it was carrying the joke
too far to lock the door ; but I was borne
away by the spirit of the thing. You will
forgive me."

"Oh, yes."

Well, dear Maud, good-bye now. You
are leaving your parcel of tracts behind
you. Never mind ; I'll read them for
you.

When she had left the room he took
up the parcel, drojDjDed it into his pocket,
and started at once for the city.

That day Maud wrote to her cousin,

Sir William Midharst. The concluding
paragraph of her letter ran thus :

'^ I do not know what is the matter
with Mr. Grey ; his manner terrifies me.
If you can, come back at once."

PENNILESS.

As Grey drove home lie thought : " Was
ever man so lucky as I ! She did not
denounce me. She did not give her name.
She did not mention mine. She did not
tell the nature of the injury she had been
the innocent cause of, and I was in time
to prevent surprise being aroused by the
contents of that packet. Was ever man
so lucky as I !

'* I think I half convinced Maud the
scene between her and me was a rehearsal.
If I have not, I am sure to be able to do
so later on. Maud had no suspicion that
woman was my mother ; and if she had

she could in no way trace my manner to
the presence of my mother. Even if she
discovers later on it was my mother, I
shall be able to find out some back door,
some means of escape. It is time enough
to say good-day to the devil when you
meet him ; so I will not waste time in
providing for wdiat may never arise.

This parcel is money, of course. It
is a large slice out of the sales of the
annuity, house, and furniture. I don't
know what the gross sum was, but I
should not be surprised if she left half
of it with Maud. Let me see."

He cut the cord, and opened out the
parcel. There were two or three folds
of brown paper ; then came a bundle of
notes, and in the middle one note doubled
up, and in this innermost note four
sovereigns, seven shillings, and a fourpenny-piece.
There were seven one thousand
pound notes, three one hundred, and eight

tens, making seven thousand three hundred
and eighty pounds in notes, and four
pounds seven shillings and fourpence in
coin ; in all, seven thousand three hundred
and eighty-four pounds, seven shillings
and fourpence.

Grey knit his brows, counted the
money over again, twisted the gold and
silver inquisitively through his fingers,
and uttered an exclamation of dissatisfaction.


Of course," he thought, " they could
have traced these notes to her as easily
as though her name was written on the
back of each. I can now cut off their
history as long as I like. I cannot understand
how she got so much for the lot.
Double this would be a thing far above
my estimate. At the very outside I don't
think the three things were worth more
than ten thousand. It might have gone
to eleven thousand. I should not have

VOL. in. 11

thought SO much, certainly not a penny-more.
This would be about two-thirds
of eleven thousand — a trifle more than
two-thirds. Can this woman have given
Maud two-thirds of what the property
brought, and left herself with short of
four thousand pounds, when she may live
ten or a dozen years yet ? Monstrous !

My mother, upwards of seventy years
of age, with a bankrupt son and four
thousand pounds — a hundred and fifty
pounds a year ! Monstrous ! I'll go to
Evans and find out the facts of the
ease, and relieve myself of this heavy
suspicion."

He drove to Evans's. The solicitor
was in an outer office among his clerks.
Grey was too impatient to wait until they
could reach the private room, and too
cautious to allow Evans to answer his
question aloud. He took up a sheet of
paper and wrote on it :

What were the net proceeds of my
mother's sale ? "

He handed this to Evans.

The solicitor wrote some figures, and
returned the paper to Grey.

The banker turned down the side of
paper with the figures, and went to the
window. With his back to the attorney
and clerks he read the figures. The
paper fell from his hand. He raised his
face against the thin winter light. He
folded his arms tightly across his chest.
A convulsive movement began at the
shoulders and descended throughout his
body. He swayed to and fro violently.

Evans raised his head, and saw something
was wrong. He stole softly behind
the banker, and placed his hand on the
other's arm.

Come this way. Come to my
private room," whispered the solicitor
gently.

Grey moved away mechanically. Even
with the attorney's assistance lie walked
unsteadily.

When he had reached the private room
Evans pressed Grey into a chair, locked
the door, and said :

Eest a while. Eest a while, and then
tell me."

Grey rose to his feet laboriously, as if
his joints were frozen. He placed a hand
on each shoulder of Evans, and said, in a
heavy husky voice :

"Evans — my God! Evans — do you
know what has happened ? "

No."

My mother, upwards of seventy years
of age, has left Daneford and gone I don't
know where ; and she has not a roof to
cover her, a meal to eat, or a shilling in
her pocket."

The sum Evans had written on that
piece of paper was seven thousand three

Hundred and eighty-four pounds, seven
shillings and fourpence.

Evans, she hasn't kept a copper. By
this time she may be without a shilling."

Half an hour elapsed before Grey found
himself able to command himself sufficiently
to face the public eye.

Evans offered to do anything in his
power. He undertook to find Mrs. Grey
and ascertain her condition ; but Grey
refused all help. He felt perfectly convinced
his mother would allow nothing to be done
for her by him. If she beggared herself
to pay some of the stolen money, it was
not likely she would accept money from
him who had committed the theft.

When he left Evans's office he walked
slowly and sadly towards the Bank. It
was now dusk. He went to his private-room,
and, flinging himself into a chair,
sat long gazing at the fire.

He had, he had fancied, banished all

thought of this mother from his mind forever.
He had flattered himself he had
cast ofi" all his old affection, so that it might
be no longer a stumbling-stone in the path
of his ambition. But this horrible discovery
of the old woman's absolute destitution could
not be resisted.

His mother a homeless wanderer among
strange people in the winter time ! Unendurable
thought ! She to whom he had
looked up with love and reverence all his
life, who had soothed and cheered him in
the little griefs of his boyhood and the
trials of his manhood, now without a fireside
of her own !

He had himself never known what
poverty, actual poverty, was ; but he had
heard and read of it, and had come in
contact with it as a man connected with
the treasurership held by him. There
were people in the world at this moment
who were hungry and had not a penny

to buy bread. Had not a penny siicli as
this.

He bad taken a coin out of bis pocket,
and now belt it in bis left band. He
was bent forward ; bis right elbow rested
on bis knee ; bis bead drooped over the
left palm, in wbicb lay the coin.

People wbo starved for want of such
a coin as this ! Under privation it was
the children and the old people succumbed
first. People of middle life like bim lived
through sieges and famines when the
young and the old died.

To think of people being hungry for
want of such a coin as this !

He bad seen the old hungry. As
president of the Coal Fund be bad visited
poor old people. He bad seen their
dropped jaws, their dim eyes, their feeble
gait, their degraded humanity. He bad
seen women, old women wbo bad once
occupied comfortable positions, hobbling

along the frozen streets with tickets for
coal in their hands, while boys followed
jeering at them. He had heard these
respectable old women utter words of gratitude
so humiliating to themselves, that
he had felt to listen was more the punishment
of a crime than the reward of a
humane action.

Once at a Christmas-time he went to
see a poor widow on behalf of whom
application had been made to the fund.
Her husband had been a well-to-do
tradesman of Daneford. He found the
poor creature in a most pitiable plight.
She had nothing; but a bundle of straw
for a bed, and the ragged remains of an
old patchwork counterpane. There were
two broken chairs, a delf cup, and no
saucer. This was a full inventory of the
widow's goods. The old woman said she
did not feel hung-er half so much as cold.

o

She was used to hunger all the year round,

now and then ; but the winter cold was
terrible. When hungry and cold, you
were tortured from within and without.
For twelve months she had not tasted
hot meat, and for six months neither
eggs nor butter. Sprats were then three-halfpence
for two pounds, and bread
three-halfpence a pound. Two pounds of
sprats, two pounds of bread, and the use
of a neighbours fire, carried her over
two days very nicely, but that came to
fourpence-halfpenny ; and when she had
paid eighteen pence a week for the room, it
was not easy to find fourpence-halfpenny
every two days for living. In coming
away he gave her half-a-sovereign. She
threw herself down on her knees to him,
and thanked him and Providence that
she should now have warm stockings and
taste meat once more before she died.
That thin old woman had thrown herself
on her knees to hin because she was

liungiy and cold, and lie had given lier
half-a-sovereign ! Thrown herself on her
knees to him ! When he came home
he told Bee, and Bee had wept and sent
the old woman clothes. He told his
mother, too, about this old woman, and
his mother had gone to see her and sat
with her, and never lost sight of her
until the poor woman died.

What changes since then ! Bee had
gone, and his mother was a pauper
fugitive.

His stately keen-minded mother a
penniless fugitive ! Intolerable ! There
must be some mistake. Fancy for a
moment his proud high-spirited mother
being obliged to stoop and accept help !
Fancy such a thing, she who had always
had a full larder and ]curse at the service
of royal generosity ! The mere idea was
preposterous on the face of it. And yet
there were the figures of Evans. His

mother prostrate at the feet of a stranger,
thanking him for food !

"Oh, God, who is om master, and who
is the master of our joys and our woes,
afflict me with what Thou wilt, but take
away that vision ! Take away that vision
from before my eyes ! Give me all other
pains but that sight, the result of my
misdoings,"

He had risen, and was praying withall
the might of his soul, his face and
hands thrown up, and the tones of terrible
beseeching in his voice.

Suddenly he sank to his knees and
drew his arms swiftly and strongly across
his eyes ; swaying his body to and fro,
he moaned out in piteous entreaty :

Oh, God of mercy, show mercy tome,
and turn away from me my mother's
eyes ! "

There was a knock at the door.

He staggered feebly to his feet, and

took a few hasty inspirations before
asking :

"Who's there?"

I, sir."

What clo you want ? "

'^ The mail is going out, sir."

"Well?"

"Have you any letters to go?"

"No, Doughty."

"But there's the Castle bag, sir. I
want the letters out of that."

True ; thank you for reminding me
of them." He opened the door. "Here
is the key." He handed it through the
door, adding : "I am most particularly
engaged. Let no one come to me."

He retired from the door feebly. He
went back to the fire and sat down.

In half an hour he rang his bell. The
porter entered.

"Are the letters posted?"

"Yes, sir."

"All gone?"

"Yes, sir."

"That will do." To himself he thought
with his hand on his brow : "I forgot
something about the Castle letters. I
forget still what it was. I should have
I remember now. Well, it does not
make much difference."

LOSING.

For a few days after the meeting between
Grey and his mother at the Castle he
did not go to the Island. Something
repelled him. The thought of the Castle
made him chill and uncomfortable now.
He had never gone so fair as to try and
persuade himself he was in love with
Maud. He never pretended to himself
he felt more than a mild interest in her.
The nature of the circumstances surrounding
him and impelling him towards Maud
had almost wholly obliterated the personalty
of the girl. She was a minus
quantity in the equation of his life.

Could lie bring her over to the other
side, the minus would become a plus, and
he should be saved. He was too much
impressed with the necessity of winning
her to regard her personality with much
interest.

Now he seemed to have receded further
from her. He was no less impressed with
the necessity of winning her than before,
but between her and him had come of late
a shadow, stretching from that interview
at which his mother, Maud, and himself,
had assisted.

At first this shadow was vague, indistinct,
a source of indefinable uneasiness
rather than absolute pain. Gradually, hour
by hour after that interview, his subsequent
discoveries in the fly, and at Evans's office,
the appearance of vagueness disappeared,
the repelling image took absolute form, and
between the girl and himself flitted the
form of a feeble beggared mother.

He had made no effort to trace Mrs.
Grey. He knew nothing on earth would
induce her to take aid from him. He
knew she could not be reached indirectly,
for she would suspect any side approach
to be of his contriving. When she would
not keep a shilling of her own honest
money to buy bread, there was no likelihood
of her receiving stolen money from
his hand.

^' I have already sacrificed two women,
am I about to sacrifice a third?" He put
this question to himself often, but took
little interest in the answer. If any other
means of extricating himself offered, he
would have abandoned his design of marrying
Maud. He saw no other loophole of
escape.

^' If I don't marry Maud, sooner or
later it will be found out I have made
fraudulent uses of my power of attorney,
and they will seize me, search the Bank

and the Manor, and — lang me out of one
of the crossbows of that tank — always
supposing I do not take the liberty of
beating the hangman by making away
with myself."

He began to feel jaded, and people saw
changes in him, and asked him if he was
quite well. When not racked by dread or
torn by remorse, a strange languor fell
upon him, and he could not rouse himself
to do anything not absolutely necessary.

In these languid moments he would
think to himself: "I have been over-trained
by crime, and I am not capable
of fighting as of old."

The first day he called at the Castle
after meeting his mother there, Maud
could not be seen. She sent down Mrs.
Grant to say she hoped Mr. Grey would
excuse her, as she had a headache, and
Mrs. Grant had recommended her to keep
to her room.

VOL. III. 12

This was an agreeable disappointment.
He had come to the Island and requested
he might see Maud, not as a matter of
liking at the moment, but as part of a
scheme of self-protection laid down when
full of life and vigour, and now carried
out with diminished forces.

He formally examined the work upon
which the men were engaged, and took
an early leave of the Island.

A meeting with Maud that day would
have been too much for him. He did
not feel equal to urging his suit ;
allusion might have been made to his
manner on the last occasion, and he felt
he could not carry off the fiction of the
imaginary dispute of the will with a
hand sufficiently light and firm.

He had now a vague fear — it went
beyond fear, and assumed the settled form
of conviction — that his explanation of his
violence had not satisfied Maud. She

might really have been indisposed, but of
old so slight an indisposition as headache
would not have excluded him from her
presence. He was quite sure Maud had
told him the truth, and that his mother
had divulged nothing prejudicial to him.
But this was not all. His mother may
have divulged nothing, and yet his
manner, his terror at the sight of her,
his violence when she had gone, and his
subsequent statement that litigation was
not impossible, might have created an
impression not to be removed easily from
the mind of the girl.

He allowed a few days more to elapse
before calling again.

Mrs. Grant came to him and said
Miss Midharst was so miserably wretched
and unwell she must ask Mr. Grey to
be good enough to excuse her not
receiving him.

'' I have been very unfortunate with

Miss Midliarst of late," said the banker,
with a smile to the little widow.

She is so nervous and excitable,"
said Mrs. Grant, who seemed uneasy and
disconcerted.

Until quite lately I have had the
pleasure of seeing Miss Midharst daily.
I have not been able to come here so
often as of old, and when I do come
I am so unfortunate as to find Miss
Midharst laid up." There was complaint
in his tone.

Mrs. Grant felt exceedingly awkward.
Maud had told her of Mr. Grey's extraordinary
conduct at their last interview.
At her suggestion Maud had written to
Sir William and avoided an interview
with the banker. Maud had had a headache
when he called last, but it was
not bad enough to prevent her seeing
him if nothing unusual had happened.
To-day she was not unusually nervous,

but she dreaded an interview with the
banker so much she became hysterical
when his name had been announced.
Still Mrs. Grant's old feeling for Mr.
Grey could not be put aside in a minute,
and now that she was face to face with
him who had been so useful and so kind,
and found him complaining of exclusion
from the presence of her over whose
fortunes the dead baronet had made him
guardian, she felt powerless and wretched.
She said, in an unsteady voice and
confused manner :

I am sure I am very sorry you should
have been twice disappointed in seeing
Miss Midharst. It is unfortunate. But I
hope you will not think she intends any
disrespect to you. I know nothing is
further from her thoughts."

Grey took the widow's hand gently in
his. He felt conscious he was not as
strong as formerly. He had now no friend

in the world. A woman, a widow, had
been his greatest friend. He knew Mrs.
Grant meant him well.

Mrs. Grant," he said, " I am sure I
have a sincere friend in you."

I am sure you have," she answered
tremulously.

"Will you do me a great favour?"

There is no one in the world, except
Maud, for whom I would so soon do all
I can," she said earnestly.

You will be candid with me, I know.
You will be candid with me because
you could not be otherwise with anyone,
and you will answer my question as a
favour 1 "

'' If I can I will ; you may rely upon
that."

"I knew I was right. My question
is : Has anything occurred to make Miss
Midharst disinclined to meet me ? "

She is not very well."

You were good enough to tell me that
some time ago. My question has reference
to something else. Has anything of a
personal nature occurred to make Miss
Midharst disinclined to meet me ? "

You know, Mr. Grey, that when Sir
William was here Maud made a promise
to him."

Yes. That she would look upon him
as her personal guardian. Is it to that
you refer V

It is. I believe Miss Midharst wishes
to consult her cousin on some subject of
importance. She has written to him."

"And will not receive me until she
gets his reply ? Is that what I am to
understand, Mrs. Grant ? " Grey's voice
quavered, and his whole body shook. How
had that letter escaped him ?

*' I do not think Maud will be quite
strong enough to see you for a few days
more."

That is, until she hears from her
cousin ? "

Until she sees him."

Sees him ! What do you mean ? "

She wrote him, asking him to come
back, if he could."

That is not true. I never saw the
letter," he whispered.

"Yes. She wrote him the day she
saw you last, and he is coming back. He
has telegraphed to her saying so."

The day she saw me last ! The day
I met another woman talking to her."

"Yes."

Was it at the suggestion of that
woman she wrote for Sir William to come
home ? "

No ; that lady did not, as for as I
can hear, mention Sir William's name."

"And that was the day," said Grey,
letting fall Mrs. Grant's hand and pressing
it against his throbbing forehead — " that

was the day I forgot the bag. How soon
is Sir Alexander expected here ? "

Sir William, you mean."

Ah, yes ; Sir AYilliam I mean, of
course. I forgot — I forgot ! "

We don't know exactly when he maybe
here, but he will certainly not be
longer than a fortnight."

"And between this and then Miss
Midharst will not see me ? "

He had still his hand on his brow.
She did not answer.

Without taking any further notice of
her he walked feebly out of the room.
For an hour he wandered aimlessly about
the Castle grounds. There were men at
work, but he took no notice of them.
When it grew dusk he crossed over ina
boat to the mainland, and set out to
walk home.

The cool air and the walking gradually
improved his tone, and little by little he

became familiar with the new aspect of
affairs. He was conscious of mental
indifference, weakness, or numbness — he
did not know exactly what it was.
Thoughts and ideas and things had lost
half their values to him. He felt like a
man who wakes for the first time in a
prison where he is to pass his life, only
the prisoner's heart is afflicted with the
memory of a better past. Grey, as he
walked along, did not once turn his eyes
back. He kept them fixed rigidly forward.

In the immediate future he saw he
should lose all influence at the Castle.
The moment Sir William came home his
suspicions would be aroused. He would
make inquiries, and find not a single
shilling of Sir Alexander's money in the
books of the Bank of England.

Then would come ruin and death, or
death and ruin — put it either way. He
was beaten. He confessed it to himself.

Discovery could not be three weeks off.
There was no loophole — no means of
escape. The days of abduction were dead
and buried long ago. He could not carry
Maud away forcibly and marry her. He
had, by law, no control over her person.
She would not see him until Sir William's
return. Most likely she was acting under
the young man's advice in not seeing
him.

A month ago he was keener, and
would have felt angry at the interference
of this young man and the stubbornness
of this girl ; but he was past all that
now. He was beaten, beaten beyond all
hope of retrieving his fortune. His life
was forfeit. His name would be branded
for ever in the town where it had been
almost worshipped for years.

And when he had died by his own
hand, and all had been discovered, his
mother, a wanderer on the land, would,

as she sank into a pauper's grave, learn
the enormity of his crime, and call out
that the sin of having brought such a
monster into the world might be taken
away from her in consideration of the
wrongs he had done her.

N ! no ! no ! Ten thousand times
No ! His mother should never hear the
awful words : " Henry Walter Grey found
guilty of Wife Murder," or, 'discovery of
the body of Mrs. Henry Walter Grey,
with a history of her murder by her
husband."

No ; that must never be. But how
was he to prevent it ? Only one way
remained.

If he could hide the embezzlement, he
could hide the murder. There was now
only one way of hiding the fraud : he
must throw himself on the mercy of Miss
Midharst and her cousin. The moment
Sir William returned, he should make a

full confession. While there is life there
is hope, and that was not a foolish hope.
Sir William was young and chivalric. Sir
William would listen to his prayer and
show mercy.

"l AM HE. FIRE."

The morning after Grey had been at
the Castle, he awoke cold and depressed.
The magnitude of the misfortune just
come upon him was more apparent than
the evening before. Up to yesterday
he had been fighting to defeat the past
and render the future glorious. Henceforth
all thought of glory must be cast
aside, and the struggle conducted solely
with a view to prevent fatal disgrace.
He had lost the stake, and ran a grave
risk of losing his life. He had been
playing against Sir William Midharst. Now
he was playing against the hangman.

The day of the baronet's return was
not known. The young man must pass
through Daneford on his way to the
Castle. More than likely he would call
at the ^^Warfinger Hotel," to leave his
luggage there before setting out for the
Island.

Grey went to the " Warfinger Hotel,"
saw the landlord, told him Sir William
was expected home ; and requested him
to send instantly to the Bank word of
the baronet's arrival.

He felt queer to-day. That old sensation
of everything being far away and
of little interest to him had come back
upon him fourfold. He went through
the routine business of the Bank with
as little interest as a copying-clerk. He
signed papers without reading them, and
did not understand those he read.

And now day after day the banker lived
without change or adventure. All his life

he had been a man of action, a leader,
and now he was wearily waiting, waiting
in weak hope haunted by fierce terrors.
He felt his physical health declining under
the ordeal, but he had no alternative.

At last one afternoon, as he was sitting
alone in his private office a messenger came
from the " Warfinger Hotel " announcing
the return of Sir William. The baronet
had just arrived and ordered luncheon,
so that in all likelihood he would be at
the hotel for an hour or two.

Grey rose heavily and walked to the
hotel with a misgiving heart. He carried
in his hand his small black bag.

What reason had he to think this
young man would take a merciful view
of the case ? All his pride was gone
now, except the pride in a good name he
did not deserve. He would crawl on his
knees in private to this young man, rather
than lower his front a jot before the public.

If lie could win over this young man he
miixht save his name. It was not the
hangman he dreaded most. It was not
death. It was the groans and execrations
of people over whom he once held imperial
sway, and by whom he had been regarded
as the high-priest of humanity and justice.

When he arrived at the hotel, he sent
in his card and was instantly admitted.

The young man fixed his dark dreamy
eyes upon the other as he entered, rose
slowly from his chair, and held out his
hand freely, saying :

I am very much obliged to you for
calling. I wanted to see you particularly."

This was unexpected. Grey thought
Sir William would refuse to meet him
until after a visit to the Castle. What
did the young man know ? Grey said :

I have to steak to you on a very
important matter indeed, and I would
wish to speak to you about it at once."
VOL. III. 13

I am quite at your service for an
hour. Sit down. You are not looking
as well as I should like to see so good
a friend."

"Friend!" sighed Grey. "Don't use
that word again until I have finished."

A quick look of present interest came
into the dreamy eyes. The baronet said :
I am ready to hear."

I have been told by Mrs. Grant that
you have come home to consult with Miss
Midharst about some important matter — I
do not know what, and I do not seek to
know. Before you see Miss Midharst,
I want to say to you some words of
the deepest importance, and I want
you to permit me to — lock the
door." He was grave and collected in
manner, and as he said the last words
he waved his hand softly towards the
floor.

You may lock the door," said Sir

William, taking an easy-chair, and relapsing
into his dreamy manner.

The banker walked slowly to the door,
locked it deliberately, and then came back
to the window at which the young man
was sitting. Then he sat down on a
chair opposite Sir William, having placed
his bag on a small table that stood
between them.

The day was bright and clear. Past
the wall of the hotel through which that
window looked ran the Weeslade. It was
ebb tide, and now and then down the
river shot a small boat or glided a barge,
while from the upper wharves came the
sound of chains and tackles, and the hoarse
hoot of the steamboat blowing off steam.

For a few seconds Grey sat silent,
resting his head upon his hand. At last
he spoke :

^^ You have been asked to come back
from Egypt to give advice to Miss

Midliarst on some subject of importance.
You are by your relationship with heir
and by her own agreement with you, the
guardian of her person. I am by the
will of her father the guardian of her
fortune. Yours is a precious trust."

Grey paused here to give the young
man an opportunity of saying something.
Sir William merely said : " That
is so."

'' What I have further to say to you,"
continued Grey, 'sis in the nature, Sii*
William, of a confession. A confession
so degrading and humiliating, that I have
debated a thousand times whether I should
make it or put an end to my life."

"I am sincerely glad you adopted the
alternative of confiding in me."

'sir William, what do you consider
the greatest calamity which could befall
Miss Midharst ? "

Eeally I have not thought of such

a question, and could not answer it ofF-land."


What would you do to the man
who behaved in an unscrupulous manner
to Miss Midharst ? "

Suddenly the young man lost his
languid manner, sat bolt upright in his
chair, looked with a strong present interest
in his eyes at the banker, and demanded
sharply: 'what do you mean?"

Grey raised his head, and for the first
time the eyes of the two men met.

"A terrible injury, an irreparable injury;
who had inflicted upon her an injury so
great that the sacrifice of his life could
not atone for it, not the devotion of a
lifetime undo it ? "

Shoot him. Where is he ? "

Grey opened the black bag, took out
the revolver, and holding the muzzle
pointed at his own breast, handed it to
the baronet, saying : "I am he. Fire."

The young man sprang to his feet, seized
the revolver, and keeping the banker covered
with it, said thickly through his clenched
teeth : "A moment. Wait a moment."

For some seconds there was neither
motion nor word. The one man stood
over the other, the revolver in his hand,
his finger on the trigger.

I have thought of Maud until I am
ready to shoot, you here. Now speak.
What was it?"

She is a beggar."

^^HowT'

'^ I have stolen all her fortune. I sold
out the Consols and used the money. The
money is all gone."

Have you confessed all ? "

"Yes; all."

"And are you ready to die for that?"
i am.

There is nothing for you to add
about Maud?"

'^ No. I have told you all candidly."

The young man seized Grey by the
throat, and pulled him upon his feet.
For a moment he swayed the banker to
and fro.

Not this. Fire if you are a man.
Not this."

damnation seize you for a fool! You
terrified me about nothings." He flung;
Grey violently from him.

About nothing 1 I told you all her
money is gone."

^' And when did I tell you I wanted
her money "? "

You never said anything to me
about it."

You are a fool, sir, and have terrified
me for nothing."

Sir AYilliam stooped down, picked up
the revolver, which had fallen from his
hand in the scuffle, and raising the
window quietly dropped it into the

Weeslade. Then tiirninQ; to the hanker
he said :

AYho knows of this ? "

'' Only you and I and my mother."

^'That is true, is it?"

'' It is."

"Miss Midharst has no suspicion of it?"

"Not the slightest. Only three people
on earth know it. The three I have
named."

Keep the secret where it is, and
meet me here tomorrow at noon. I
shall then let you know what I intend
doing."

BANKER AND BARONET.

Next noon, as appointed, Grey called
at the '' Warfinger Hotel" and saw Sir
William. The interview was a brief one.
Sir William informed the banker he had
made up his mind to only one thing sofar,
namely, to keep the secret and do
nothing for a month or two. " This looks
very like compounding a felony," said the
young man, " but I am prepared to take
that risk."

Grey went away respited. It was a
great relief nothing was to be done at
once, but when something came to be
done what would it be ? That was the

question which followed Grey day and
night, waking and sleeping, through two
long weary months. One qualifying fact
operated greatly in his favour : day after
day he lost susceptibility. Something was
happening which dulled his sense of danger
or exposure. He had begun to forget
more and more, and it was only on rare
occasions he had a clear and will-defined
idea of his position. He had a weak
conviction Sir William would not have
him prosecuted, but what would the young
man do ?

But if the tyranny of the theft had
lost its poignancy, he had two fiercer
troubles left.

Every old broken - down woman he
met in the street was his mother. By
day he met his mother a thousand times ;
she crawled close to the wall, she had
sold all her clothes for bread, she had
worn out her boots, and her bare feet, her

poor old bare feet, touched the cold wet
streets. If lie took up a paper this eye
fell on some paragraph relating to the
death in great misery of an old woman
over seventy who had seen better days.

But it was when the twilight had
died, and all the land lay in the dark
trance of night, the prime actor in his
mental disaster entered on the scene.

In order that he might marry Maud
and so cover up his robbery, he had
taken upon him the awful burden of blood.
Now Maud had slipped through his grasp,
and there was a chance his theft might
still remain undisclosed. What was his
position with regard to the deed of the
seventeenth of August ? If the warm-breathing
body of his wife were by his
side he should be in no worse position.

When the dusk came down upon the
earth, when the fields lay under the shadow
of the wings of ill angels, the warm and

•
breathing body of his wife was not at this

side, but there, no matter where he might

sit, was the cLammy coal thing he had

left that night on the top of the Tower

of Silence. It lay in passage and hall,

and in the dining-room it was always

stiff and stark behind his chair, where he

could not see it, but whence the clammy

chill radiating from it reached his back

and froze his spirit.

That was not the worst, for it was
vao^ue ; not the figure of his wife so much
as that of the victim of murder. Over
one shoulder, he knew not which, came
that face, not now calm and passionless
as before, but full of love and tender
reproach, an expression in which the love
out-measured the reproach ten thousandfold.
It was this new look of old love
made him shut his fists, and grind his
teeth, and sob and groan.

From the ghastly caverns of night's

silence whispers of her voice came to him
pleading for mercy.

Do not, for God's sake, Wat, do not
send me in my sin before my Maker ! "

These awful whispers made him start
and stare, and caused . the cold sweat to
start from all the pores of his body.

Then followed night and dreams. When
he awoke after dreams he always thought
the dreaming worse than waking. When
he sought his bed at night he prayed for
dreams as a relief. In the privacy of
his own room, and in the still deeper
privacy of dreams, he was always in her
presence when the rustle of her dress made
his pulses thicken with joy.

These dreams were his only resting-places.
But, unfortunately, not only did
they not last always, but towards the end
of each it changed and died in an awful
sense of unascertainable disaster. Something
had happened to his love, something

SO hideous and unheard of, that not manor
woman, beast or stone, woukl tell him
the secret. With a great shout he awoke,
sprang out of bed to seek for his love
through all the world, tore open the door,
and found his murdered wife lying across
the threshold, and upon his hands her
blood.

Day by day the influence of these
terrors wrought on Grey until his eyes
grew dim, his hands palsied, his gait feeble,
and his mind dull. He forgot oftener now
than formerly. In the midst of business
transactions he would stop suddenly, put
his hand to his head, mutter a few incoherent
words, cease speaking for a while,
and then exclaim piteously : "I have
forgotten something I I have forgotten
something ! "

All who came in contact with him
saw he was breaking down. They said :

Poor Grey loved his wife so deeply,

SO tenderly, he is losing his reason for
loss of her."

This popular verdict was not only a
great cause of drawing sympathy towards
the widower, but almost wholly washed
away the stain which had smirched his
dead wife's name. For those who had
heard of her failing, and believed it fact,
now asked themselves :

'^ How could any man care for a
woman so afflicted ? How could any man
wear away his life in sorrow for the loss
of an intemperate wife ? "

The evening Grey first visited Sir 
Midharst at the " Warfinger Hotel "
the young man went to the Castle and
had a long talk with Maud, in which she
told him of Grey's extraordinary conduct
on the occasion of the unknown old
woman's visit. She did not tell him she
suspected the banker had been trying to
make himself more than agreeable to her.

He did not say anything to lier of the
scene between the banker and himself at the
Warfinger." He heard all Maud had
to say to him without comment beyond
expressions of surprise.

I know the whole secret," he thought,
but I must have time to think out the
situation before I decide on a course of
action. When I have considered all the
points I shall not be slow to move."

As he was going down a corridor
after saying good - night to Maud Mrs.
Grant overtook him.

She said : " How can you account for
Mr. Grey's conduct, Sir "William ? I
cannot understand it at all. Of course
Maud told you all. You do not think
his manner of wooing likely to win ? "

'* His manner of wooing 1 I was told
nothing; of his wooing;. Did he make
love to Maud?"

Ah, did she not tell you. I suppose

the poor child felt it might not be
delicate to mention the matter. He has
been making downright love to her. She
told me all about it. That's the extraordinary
part of the thing ; he has been
making love to her, and then he breaks
out into that violent manner all at once.
Acting, indeed ! I don't believe a word
of it."

'' So," thought Sir William to himself,,
as he went home to his hotel, " I did
not know the whole secret, but I think
I have it all now. Of course, if he
married Maud he need say nothing about
the money. It's all gone, no doubt. A
man would not tell such a lie and offer
to back it up with a bullet. Let me
see now. My return has forced his
hand. He saw he had no chance of
winning Maud. What a j)i'^pc>sterous
idea to think of his making love to my
angel Maud! What insolent presumption
VOL. III. 14

Poor Maud a beggar through his means !
It is well I am not. I suppose we can
live on the old estate as the Midharsts
have done for generations before us. I
am full of hope. I am drunk with the
belief Maud shall be mine. I think she
is glad I am back, and will be glad to
see me every day. Fancy seeing Maud
every day from this out ! Fancy being
permitted to take her hand, and to feel
that hand on my arm ! Fancy being
able to say ' Maud ' a thousand times a
day to herself and not to an image of
her. Oh, Maud, my beautiful, be with me
for ever as the flowers are with summer.

What shall I do with this scoundrel
Grey *? He was very nearly too deep
for me. He imposed on me, but that
is all over now. What am I to do with
him ? If he is prosecuted there will be
worry, and the past will be gone into,
and the peculiarities of Sir Alexander,

iimong other things his hatred of me
iiiid the, let me say, friendship between
his daughter and me.

They might call Maud, these lawyers
have no taste, no sense of propriety.
Think of putting Maud in the box and
cross-examining her, and — yes, by Heavens,
some of those legal bullies might be
ungentle to my lily sweet Maud.

What a wonderful thing Maud's hand
is. It is like the moon, always the
same, and yet you can't be in sight of
it without looking at it often.

But this scoundrel Grey. I wish I
were done with him. I have given up
all taste for affairs and difficulties. I
am become bucolic. Suppose he is
prosecuted we can't get the money back,
for such a prosecution would shut up his
Bank. We should have all the trouble
and worry for nothing. Then what is
the object of prosecuting the scoundrel?

"It is strange about Maud's hand.
I thought as I looked at it this evening
that if I were dying of wounds on a
battle-field, parched with that last terrible
thirst, and Maud came and put her hand
on my forehead, the thirst would leave
me. I know it would.

But about Grey ?

Yes. Isn't it too bad that when I
have Maud to think about this wretched
Grey should thrust himself in between
Maud and me. I wish the devil would
take Grey. He'll want that bland burglar
sometime, and he'd oblige me greatly by
taking him now.

What a beautiful thing Maud's ear is.
"While I was looking at it to-night I found
out why when I speak to her I seem to
pray ; it is because I know my words must
reach the spirit of a saint.

But here is this Grey. I am to
meet him tomorrow and let him know

my decision. I wish the devil would take
him now, or Heaven would inspire me what
to do with him. If the money had been
mine I should before going to bed to-night
.sign a receipt for the full amount, send
the receipt to him, and beg of him never
to allude to the matter again.

If the money was mine !

Ah ! That is a thought worth considering
twice.

''If I marry Maud the supposititious
money will be mine. I don't want the
money if I could get it, and I can't get
it, or any of it, if I wanted it. The
prosecution would involve nothing but
trouble and worry.

Come, on the day I marry Maud, I'll
give him a clear receipt for it ! But I'll
23ut him off for a couple of months and
then tell him.

'' If all the rest of the world were
mine on the day I marry Maud, and it

would save her worry not to take it, I
should pass it by.

My gentle Maud, you are the infinite
sum of all my earthly hopes to which
nothing can be added, from which nothing
can be taken away."

Grey REMEMBERS.

Grey sat in this breakfast-room turning
over this letters. Suddenly this eyes fell
on one and remained fixed on it.

At last' he thought, " at last I am
to hear something of her, of my poor old
mother. Whatever this tells me is all
I am likely ever to know of her until I
die. To-night I cut off for ever my
connection with the career of Wat Grey.
To-day Wat Grey departs this life of
Daneford."

He broke the envelope and found
these unsigned, undated words :

"Through the kindness of some honest

friends of your honest father I am now
in a London almshouse, so I am fully
provided for. I think it only right you
should know this. I have seen by the
papers that Sir William Midharst will,
the morning you get this, marry Miss
Midharst. I handed that lady all I had
in the world to the last penny. I do
not know how you have evaded discovery
so long. But follow my example, and
give back to the robbed all you have
left in the world. These are my last
words to you."

He put down the letter, sighed, and
muttered :

An ungracious final leave-taking,
mother, an ungracious farewell. The
giving back forms no part of my plan.
Sir William would not touch a penny.
You yourself will relent and be sorrowful
when you hear of this day's events, for
they will get into the papers as well as

the marriage of Sir William. The ne\v>s-

o

papers will have the marriage paragraph,
and then one headed, ^ Shocking Death
of Mr. Henry Walter Grey.'

No, mother, I must save my name
and save my reputation, and both can be
best preserved by sacrificing Wat Grey.
Wat Grey must go to keep his name
good. There is no need he should really
die. It will be quite enough if he change
his habitation and his name.

I am not strong enough to fight it
out any longer. I cannot leave this
house as it is, and this house is killing
me. It is killing me slowly with its
awful sights and sounds and memories.
I must, I will fly. This very night I
shall leave it for ever, and I shall leave
it incapable of telling any tales.

"At one plow I shall destroy its sights,
and its sounds, and its memories, and
cut myself off from it, Daneford, and the

past for ever. I shall get rid of all the
burden I bear. I shall break away from
all my old associations, all things to
remind me of the past. With twenty
thousand pounds in my pocket, and the
whole breadth of sunny France between
me and this place, I shall be at ease.
They may charge my memory with the
crime of theft, but I shall leave evidence
of my innocence behind me. Farleg may
come back and accuse my name of
murder ; but he will have neither Watery
nor evidence against Wat Grrey,
for Wat Grey and the evidence against
him will disappear together, and I will
live a quiet life beyond the Alps or the
Pyrenees."

He leant back in his chair and reviewed
his preparations with the deliberate
complaisance of one whose plans were
unassailable.

Yes, everything so far is arranged.

I have the money. I have the letter
written to Aldridge, saying I enclose Sir
William's acknowledgment for the amount
of Consols converted into cash at his
request, and handed to him on this the
day of his wedding with Miss Midharst.
I also tell Aldridge I send him this to
put in the strong-room, as I shall not go
into town tomorrow, but stay at home
attending to some final business connected
with the Midharst affairs. I have paid
all the small legacies, and made investments
to yield the annuities. For two months
I have been sleeping in the tower-room,
so that no one will expect me to sleep
anywhere else. I have got that rope-ladder
ready to hook on the bar of the back
window, and the piece of twine rove
through the hook to unship the ladder
when I am down safe on the ground.
Once I am on the ground I start on my
way to France, and I walk to-night at

the burial of the past. There can be no
hitch. Things must run smooth. To-morrow
I shall be free ! Free ! "

He stood up and looked around him
triumphantly. Suddenly his face grew pale
and expressionless. He pressed his hand
to his forehead, his lips opened feebly,
and he muttered :

I have forgotten something ! I have
forgotten something ! "

He dropped down in his chair, and
for a few minutes his face did not alter.
All at once the natural look came back.
He rose again, shook himself briskly, and
said :

"Another of those half-fointino- fits I
have been free from so long. They were
worst when my mind was most tortured.
Of late I have been almost free from
them. They will disappear altogether
when I get south, and tomorrow at this

hour I shall ])e out of bondage."

It was now time to set out for the
Castle. It had been arranged that lie
slionld attend and give away the bride.
If I am not present," said the banker to
Sir William, '^ there will be no end of
remarks made, and if I do attend it will
be as Miss Midharst's guardian, in which
capacity, there being no relative, I ought
to give away the bride." And Sir William,
seeing no harm in this, and wanting to
avert comment as much as possible,
consented.

A full year had not elapsed since the
death of Sir Alexander, but several considerations
beyond the impatience of the
baronet made it desirable the wedding
should take place at once.

Maud was alone in the world and
had no protector but him. She was in
mourning, and objected to go to London
and be brought out so soon after her
father's death. The Castle was lonely

and dreary. They were engaged to be
married, and it could make no difference
to anyone, and could be no offence
against the puny laws of society, if they
got married within the year and lived
quietly at the Castle until the time of
mourning had passed. Then they could
go to London. They should know very
few people at first, but that would soon
be altered.

So the marriage had been fixed to
take place on Wednesday the 8th of
August, 1877.

The wedding was to be strictly private.
No one was to be present but Mrs. Grant
and Mr. Grey. The ceremony was to he
performed by the rector, and the tenants
were informed that the bride and bridegroom
desired no demonstration of any
kind.

After the ceremony Sir William and
Lady Midharst were to return to the

Castle, where no unusual preparation would
be made to receive them.

This simple programme was carried out
without let or accident. Grey and the
baronet drove from Daneford, Maud and
Mrs. Grant from the Castle, to the quiet
country church, where the rector performed
the short service by request. In the
vestry Sir William handed Grey an envelope
containing something. He said,
*this is it, Grey." No more.

From the church the four drove back
to Island Ferry. Here Grey bade the
party good-bye. Sir William in saying
good-bye added, under his breath, so that
no one but Grey heard him, "for ever."
Grey echoes the "for ever" in his heart,
but took no further notice of the supplement
to the farewell.

The banker then drove back to the
Manor House.

"My last visit to the Castle," he

thought, as lie swept up the carriage-drive.
" My last entry into the Manor
House. To-day I bid a lifelong adieu to
the Weird Sisters. I am not sorry. I am
over weary and want rest. I have allowed
nothing to stand between me and ambition.
I have lost the game and now I want only
peace. What I have done cannot be
undone. In a new climate, among new
people, the past, the Weird Sisters, the
Towers of Silence, and the story of my
tower will fade into the background, and
the thins: of the seventeenth of Auo-ust
will become as vague and shadowy to my
mind as the story of the Spanish lady
whose bones were found on the top of
the tower in Warfino^er Castle."

He had many things to arrange at the
Manor that day, and had determined not
to go to the Bank. He opened the envelope
Sir William had given him, and found
in it what he had been promised : a receipt

in full for claims upon him in settlement
of Miss Midliarst's money. This receipt he
put into the letter he had ready written
for Aldridge and posted it. There had
been trouble about the marriage settlement,
but as Grey was guardian, and the baronet
knew all about the money, things had
gone smoothly in the end.

He spent most of the remainder of
the day in the library looking through
various books and accounts, but having
slight interest in them. The day before
a girl marries she cannot take a very
lively interest in the gardener's work at
her father's house. She is song to wear
another name, break from old associations,
and take up her residence in a new home.
By tomorrow Grey would have changed
his name, broken from old associations, and
taken up his residence in a new home.

Day grew on and at last dinner-hour
arrived. He was too much excited to eat ;

VOL. III. 15

lie played with a cutlet, and drank three
glasses of marvellous brown sherry for
which he was famous. After dinner,
although he rarely touched spirits, he had
a glass of brandy-and-w^ater with his
cigar.

At eio^ht o'clock he rano- for coffee.
When James came with it he said : "I
am o'oino; to bed soon. I shall not
require you or any of the others again
to-night. I shall want breakfast half an
hour earlier than usual in the morning,
at eight o'clock. Call me at five minutes
to seven. I am not going to town
tomorrow, but shall stay at home all
day. Good-night."

Grey waited a few minutes to give
James time to get out of hearing. Then
he rose, and took his way to the room
he had slept in of late, the first floor of
the Tower of Silence.

It was now half-past eight.

^'In half an hour I shall be free," lie
exclaimed rapturously to himself, as lie
turned up the gas.

He shook the thick shutters of the
window to ascertain that they were secure.
He lit a candle, went up those hideous
stairs to the first floor, bolted the shutters
on the front window there and the shutters
on the landing window.

I do not want the neighbours to see
it too soon or they might come and rescue
me." He chuckled at the idea of being
rescued, and descended to the storey
beneath. On the landing here the window
stood open. He looked out. All was
still below. None of his household had
ever occasion to go to the rear of the
house after nightfall. No stranger could
approach the house at the rear unless by
passing through that hideous grove.

The night was calm and dark and
still. "Nothing could be better," thought

Grey, as lie fixed the hooks of a ladder
of ropes to an iron bar of the small
balcony, and ascertained that the twine by
which these hooks were to be unshipped
ran freely through the ring screwed into
the windows-frame.

"All's well," he thought. 'now be
quick ! "

Going; back ao^ain into the first-floor
room, he rapidly took off his black frock-coat,
light trousers, and waistcoat, and
put on a tight-fitting corduroy suit, a
pair of false whiskers and moustaches, and
a low round hat.

When this was done he looked in
the glass, and started back with a shout.
By Jove ! " cried he, after a moment ;
I thought all was lost. I thought my
own reflection was another man's ! I am
already another man. I feel it in every
fibre. No one who knew me, and thinks
I am dead, would recognise me. I might

walk down the streets of Daneford tomorrow,
and talk about my own sad end
to my most intimate friend, and lie would
not recognise me. The Daneford Bank
would open an account for me tomorrow
in the name of Grrey, and observe no likeness
between their new customer and their old
master. I am a new man already. I feel
new blood in all my veins, new sinews in
all my limbs ; the nightmare of the past
is vanishing ; I shall sleep now of nights,
and whistle once more while I dress of
mornings. Ten thousand times better this
feeling than all the pomp my ambition
longed for with the canker and the care."

He took from the pocket of the coat
he had removed a small packet, thinking :
'* All I want is the money. Twenty
thousand pounds will be a large fortune in
either Spain or Italy."

He threw the clothes he had worn on
the bed, opened the cupboard, and took

out one after another four cans. Two
of these he emptied over his own bed,
one on the floor and furniture, and one
on the landing and first flight of the
stairs. Turpentine !

He then threw the four cans on the
bed, wrenched off the gas-brackets and
set fire to the o:as at the ends of the
broken pipes.

He cast one hasty glance round.

'' All right ! "

He struck a match and held it to
the saturated bed.

A little spirt of flame shot out of
the counterpane to the match. The spirt
of flame then fell back and spread slowly
until it formed a spire as large as a pine-cone.


Grey backed to the door and seized
the handle.

From that cone flashed twenty javelins
of light this way and that. The air of

the room sobbed, and a solid mass of
white flame stood up over that bed.

Swiftly opening the door Grey sprang
out, and shut the door leading to the
landing'. A second he stood there, threw
up his hands, and cried in a husky voice:

'' Saved ! "

He looked out of the window.

"All redit."

o

He put his hand on the iron bar.

"Quite firm."

Suddenly he drew back. Had he
seen anyone below ?

No.

He put his hand on his breast.

The money is here," he whispered
to himself, "but I have forgotten something.
What is it?" A few seconds
passed and he yelled: "I know! I know!
What I forgot is on the roof"

With furious speed he dashed up the
noisome stairs.

As lie did so there arose a soft flapping
sound at the door on the Landing, and a
lazy serpent of white flame crawled across
the landing and climbed np the stairs.

A sweetheart of one of the maidservants,
leaving the Manor House by the
side door at half-past nine, saw fire
issuing from the window on the first floor
of the tower, ran back to the servants'
hall, and gave the alarm.

By that time the fire raged madly,
rioting on the parched woodwork of the
staircase and the dry joists and planks of
the floors. The staircase was a cavern of
white flame. In front of the glare rushed
a fierce column of black suffocating smoke.
Twice already had a man tried to force
his way down, and twice had he l)een
driven back before the scalding vapour.
Now he crouched on the roof in the corner
furthest from the tank.

By ten a small crowd liacl assembled
and he could hear men at work. The roof
was getting hot ; now and then the opening
from the staircase panted forth a cloud of
sparks.

If they see me they will try to save
me. They will come here, find out all,
and save me — for the gallows. Better the
fire."

He crouched closer and held his breath
lest they should hear him breathe. He had
no memory of how he came to that roof.
He must have rushed there in one of those
unconscious moments.

At half-past ten red tongues began to
issue from the opening in the roof.

By a quarter to eleven the weight of
the tank told on the sapped roof That
portion showed signs of subsidence.

Still the man crouched low, his eyes
now fixed in agonised expectation on the
tank.

The man on the roof heard the
clocks of Daneford strike eleven. Just
then the tank trembled, swayed a
moment, then shot downward with a
roar. Up the hole made by it danced
a cloud of flame.

The man on the roof sprang to his
feet, and with a shout leaped on the
parapet crying :

Help ! Help ! For God's sake, help !"

With that tank the evidence against
him had vanished.

A groan came up from the people
below, and then a cheer.

The fire-escape is coming. Have

courage ! "

Shading his eyes with his hands he
looked in the direction of the lodge,
and saw approaching by the carriageway
the fire-escape.

'' Help ! Quick ! "

Courage, Wat I We will save you ! "

Another crash. Something warm
struck his back. He timed round. All
the roof was gone now. He looked
into a pool of flame.

A fiercer blow than the former.
Sight gone. Head giddy. Ah !

They saw the flame touch him ; they
saw him thrust his arms before his
face. They saw him sway, and fall into
the crater.

They knew he had lost his life in
the tower that night, but they never
knew that tower was the tomb of
husband and wife.

"Well, Maud, as we are not leaving
home for our honeymoon, and there is
only one place in the Castle where you
have never been — the top of the Tower of
Silence, suppose we take lanterns and go
there for an hour. I am curious to see
this historic tower, this Weird Sister

dowered with a legend of blood. You
are not afraid to go."

I should like to go. There is
nothing I would like better. It will bean
adventure."

When they were there he said : "I
am glad we came. We are promised a
glorious view presently. There is the
moon rising."

The moon does not rise there. It
rises here," pointing.

Then there must be a fire."

"That is the direction of the Manor
House ."

THE END.

CHARLES Dickens AND EVANS, GREAT NEW STREET, FETTER LANE, E.C,

NOTICE.

Now ready, at every Library in the Kingdom,

THE Mystery OE Willard

A New Novel.

By RICHARD DOWLING,

Author of " The Weird Sisters." In Three Vols.

A noticeable book ; it contrives to arouse and maintain interest with a
very small number of incidents and personages, dramatically handled. Hugo
might in his younger days, and before he had learnt the fatal lesson of
setting his own personalty above the claims of art and reason, have given us
such pictures." — Academy,

"All things being taken in consideration, it may be pronounced a
decided success, This work alone would have been enough to have
established the author's claim to a place amongst the first of living writers of
exciting fiction of the more intense kind." — Mo?vii)ig Post.

Full of dramatic action. Clever delineations of strongly contrasted
human eccentricities, inter-woven with which is a love-story of singular freshness."
— Illustrated London News.

The nature of the novel is indeed uncommonly fine." — World.

Novels are so apt to belie their name by running in the most well-worn
of ruts, and by exhibiting a striking deficiency of novelty, that we welcome
with special eagerness any outcome of real imaginative invention ; and the
conception of the original situation, the nature of which is sufficiently indicated
here, amply proves that Mr. Bowling possesses a large measure of
genuine creative power." — Spectator.

There is not a single bit of ' good society ' in the whole book, an omission
for which readers may well be thankful. The story is kept mysterious with
success." — Athenaeum.

"The novel is unquestionably powerful, well written, true to the life which
it describes, and eminently pure and healthy in tone." — Globe.

Mr. Bowling has wisely avoided the footsteps of his predecessors, and has
given us a powerfully realistic picture of the wild unexplored beauty of the
coast of Clare and its inhabitants, not relying upon such poor phrases as
begorra ' and ' bead ' for humour. The characters are well drawn, the
descriptions are almost photographic, and the story is vigorously written." —
Whitehall Review.

He has given us a book to 'read,' and one we can commend to all who
care for a realistic picture without the too common trash associated with the
ordinary novel." — Examiner.

Is a psychological study. The style is all that it should be : simple,
graphic, and at times powerful. We have not read a novel with so much
pleasure for a long time." — John Bull.

TIXSLEY BROTHERS, 8, CATHERINE STREET, STRAND.

BY "fSE AUTHOR OF "A LONDON SEASON."

COUNTY PEOPLE. By Mrs. Tender Clip,

author of "A London Season," " Denis Donne," Sec. 3 vols.
BY THE AUTHOR OF "PRETTY MISS Belle."

A GARDEN OF GIRLS. By The. Gift,

author of "Pretty Miss Belle," "True to her Twist," "Maid
Ellice," &c. 3 vols.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " A W0MA2^ SCORNED.",(i^

MOLLY Carew. A New Novel. By E. Owens

Blackburn, author of "Illustrious Irishwoman," "A Woman
Scorned," &c. 3 vols.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " WILD George."

SEALED BY A KISS. By Jean Middle^pass,

author of "Mr. Dorillion," " Wild George," &c. 3 vols.
BY THE AUTHOR OF •' JENNIE OF ' THE PRINCE'S.' "

NELL-ON AND OFF THE STAGE. By

B. H. Buxton. author of "Jennie of 'The Prince's,' " •' Won,"
Fatherless," '• Great GrenfeU Gardens," &c.

BY THE AUTHOR OF '• THE I^IYSTERY OP Willard."

THE WEIRD SISTERS. ByEicHARD Dowling,

author of "The Mystery of Willard," &c. 3 vols.
By THE AUTHOR OF "AN" INNOCENT SINNER."

OUR BOHEMIA. By Mabel Collins, author of

An Innocent Sinner," " In this World," &c.- 3 vols.
*' You shall see great difference betwixt our Bohemia and your Sicilia."
Winter's Tale.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " THE WEIRD SISTERS."

THE MYSTERY OF Willard. ByEicHARo

Dowling, author of '• The Weh-d Sisters " (see " Tingle's
Magazine "). 3 vols.

BY Maurice LEE.

O WHERE AND O WHERE? 2 vols.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JULIET'S GUARDIAN."

POOR WISDOM'S CHANGE. By mrs. H.

Loveth Cameron, author of-juliet's Guardian," &c. 3 vols.

Now ready, in 1 vol., price os.

THE BLACK COTTAGE;

Or Tom Brace's Picture :

A GHOST Story FOE THE FIRESIDE.
BY W. E. BROUGHAM.

TINSLEY BROTHERS, 8, CATHERINE STREET, STRAND.

NEW PUBLICATIONS.

Illustrated with upwards of 400 ENGRAVINGS from
DESIGNS by GERMAN ARTISTS.

Noah ready, in 2 vols, demy 8vo, 900 pages.

BERLIN UNDER THE NEW EMPIRE.

Its Institutions, Inhabitants, Industry, Monuments, Museums,
Social Life, Manners, and Amusements.

By HENRY VIZETELLY.

AUTHOR OF "THE STORY OF THE DIAIIOXD NECKLACE," ETC.

There is no lack of lively matter in Mr. Vizetelly's volumes, while they
embrace a vast amount of information of general interest and permanent
value. In a book which goes far beyond Bern, Mr. Vizetelly sketches with

a vigorous hand the political and social system of the Empire Nor less

entertaining than these clever social sketches are the pol tical portraits,
including public men of all parties and of any note, from the Emperor and
his mighty Chancellor to the Socialist members of the Chambers. Nor,
talking of sketches, can we conclude our notice without referring again to
the excellent illustrations, chiefly of a humorous character, which makes one
smile over the perusal of the gravest chapters. The selection is worthy of
the author's reputation as an artist." — Times.

We have to thank Mr. Heni-y Vizetelly for a really instructive book.
• Berlin under the New Empire,' published by Messrs. Tingle Brothers, is a
work of substantial information, conveniently arranged, clearly and agreeably
written, and mingled with entertaining descriptive passages, and with

lively notices of the habits of the townsfolk These volumes contain,

in short, a rare amount of materials for the understanding of present home
affairs in Prussia and North Germany, which are frequently made the topic
of remarks in the cuiTcnt journals of political discussion." — Illustrated
London News.

Mr. Vizetelly seems to have forgotten and omitted nothing that could
render these volumes instructive or contribute to the entertainment of the
reader ; and the plentiful drawings with which every page is furnished
bring home to us with striking reality the scenes so graphically described by
the author." — Daily Neics.

Mr. Vizetelly's book, every page of which is interesting, is unquestionably
one of the best books of its kind that has appeared in England for many
years. In fact, we scarcely remember ever to have read a more entertaining
volume, or one which contains so much valuable and evidently accurate
information. It instructs and amuses in equal degrees." — Morning Post.

After having discovered that a tribe of savages live in a sandy desert
somewhere in the north of Germany, and that their chief kraal, a miserable
stucco erection, is called Berlin, the author proceeds to tell how those creatures
manage to exist, what are their institutions, manners, amusements,
industries, and so on." — Athenaeum.

TINSLEY Brothers, 8, CATHERINE STREET, STRAND.

NEW PUBLICATIONS.

English and Scotch Heroines ; French, ( Jcrman, and Genoese
Amazons ; Female Manors of the Reformation ; Heroines
of the Irish Rebellion ; Captain Rodeanx, Female Officer
in the French Army ; Christian Davies, Female Soldier in
the 20th Foot ; Hannah Snell, Private in the Line and
Marines ; Phoebe Vessel, Private in the 5th Testament ;
Hannah Whitney and Ann Chamberlain, Female Sailors ;
Mary Ralphson, Jenny Cameron, Pretty Polly Oliver, &c.

Now ready, in 2 vols. post 8vo, price 18s.

FEMALE WARRIORS. Memorials of Female Heroism,
from the Mythological Ages to the Present Era.
By Ellen C. Clayton, anterior of "Queens of Song,"
English Female Artists," &c.

The most successful of Miss Clayton's attempts to fittingly commemorate
the actions of the illustrious members of the softer sex." — Court JounmL

The Washington, The Above-their-Bnsiness Order, The Chin
Man, The Job-for-Life Man, The Rolling-stone, The Handy
Man, The Workshop Buy, The Workshop Oracle, The
Saint Mondayite, The Unskilled Labourer, The Regular
Roadster, The Workshop Orator, The Hard Bargain, The
Casualty Man, The Thoroughly Domesticated jNIan, The
Evening-from-Home ]Man, The Single j\Ian, The AVasteral,
The Scholar, The Last-Year Apprentice, The Bred-adorn
Housewife, Mrs. Muddle, The brotherly AVoman,
Mrs. Meddle, The Woman who AVorks, Dorothy Draggle-tail,
&c.

Now ready, in 1 vol. post Svo, price 7s. Gd.

TYPICAL WORKING MEN AND WOMEN.

By a AYoEKiNG Man.

TINSLEY Brothers, 8, CATHERINE STREET, STRAND.
