I I I m mmmmmmmmm

/

A)

/

L I E) Really

OF THL

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS


D759i

V. 1

A NOVEL.

BY

THE AUTHOR OF

"anchor-watch yarns," etc.

Many ways meet in one town"— King Henry V.

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:

WARD & DOWNEY,

12 YORK STREET, Covent GARDEN.

18 8 6.

[All Rights reserved.]

PROLOGUE,

PAGE



|3art i\n First.

THE SAILING OF THE SHIP.
CHAPTER I.

DESCRIBES AN Old-fashioned SEAPORT, AND A STORMY
INTERVIEW, .

CHAPTER II.

GIVES A PEEP AT THE INTERIOR OF A SHIPBROKER's
OFFICE,

CHAPTER III.

^ CONTAINS SOME IDLE CONVERSATION,

i\ CHAPTER IV.

^ A sailor's WIFE,

i^ CHAPTER V.

X DISCUSSES THE AFFAIRS OF THE SHIPBROKER's CLERK,

I

CHAPTER YI.

THE skippers' SYMPOSIUM,

CHAPTER VII.

AFTER LONG YEARS,















A MESSAGE FROM THE DEEP.

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCES ONE OF THE SMARTEST CRAFTS AFLOAT, AND page

ONE OF THE SMARTEST OF SKIPPERS, . . 127

CHAPTER II.

LOST, OR NOT LOST ? . . . . .139

CHAPTER III.

CONTAINS AN EXTRACT FROM THE " Longford Gazette,"
AND RECORDS SOME CONVERSATION, . 151

CHAPTER IV.

DALTON AND MRS m'cORMICK RECEIVE A SHOCK, . . 162

CHAPTER V.

IN WHICH THE LANDLADY OF THE " BOLD DRAGOON " Completely
LOSES HER TEMPER, . . . 169

CHAPTER VI.

NIXON FINDS HIMSELF IN STRANGE COMPANY, AND

BEHOLDS HIS FATE, 180

CHAPTER VII.

AT THE SHIPBROKER's HOUSE, 196

CHAPTER Vult.

IN WHICH THE SHIPBROKER RELATES A STORY, . . 211

CHAPTER IX.

IN WHICH DALTON BREAKS A GOOD RESOLUTION, . . 222

CHAPTER X.

A BURGLARY, 238

PROLOGUE,

NE evening, late in August, a young*
man stood on a wooden bridge which
spanned a broad river. He was leaning
with folded arms against the parapet of the
drawbridge, gazing dreamingly at the quivering
belt of light which the sun, sinking redly behind
a western hill, sent across the unruffled waters.
^ The tide was still flowing, but the flood was well-nigh
spent, for no motion seemed to disturb the
waters. The day had been calm and sultry, but
with the going down of the sun a soft breeze came
up from the south.

VOL. I. A

The traffic on the bridge had almost ceased ;
occasionally a foot-passenger went by, and from
some small pleasure boats which passed at intervals
under the drawbridge, the hum of conversation, and
the clank of oars in their rowlocks, reached the
young man's ears.

He turned round as the refulgence died out of
the waters, and walked to the opposite side of the
bridge. Here he leant against the parapet, and
stood gazing down the stream. In front of him
lay a long stretch of river, and on each side of the
river was shipping. A few vessels rode at anchor
in the channel, and when the sun had set, their
anchor lights, pale and indistinct, were hoisted
into the dusky rigging. Along the quays on both
sides the lamps were being slowly light, and like
stars breaking through the early night came the
lights from the windows of the houses built on
the slopes rising from the quays. In the south,
behind the lines of shipping, a heavy, low-lying
bank of cloud hung like a pall in mid air.

For some time the young man remained almost
motionless. Half unconsciously he was drinking in
the quiet beauty of the scene. With the ebbing

of the tide the boats ceased to go up the stream,
and no sound now reached his ears save the rhythmic
ripple of the river as it licked the wooden piers of
the bridge.

Lifting his head, he was surprised to find that
night was rapidly setting in — he had not observed
the growth of the darkness until he saw the pale
stars overhead. As he looked again down the
stream, the lights on the quays and the lights
from the houses on the hillsides seemed to have
grown suddenly deeper and fuller.

Taking out his watch, he thought, " It must be
near nine o'clock."

It wanted a quarter of the hour.

"It may be many, many years," he moodily reflected,
"until I shall look upon the dear old
river again. Perhaps I may not come back to it
until I have grown old and world-worn, and then
I shall stand here once more, and think of all the
days I have passed within sight of it, and of all
the delicious hours I have spent paddling up and
down and across it. Perhaps I may never see it
again — but no ! I could not die happy if I were
to die away from you, old river," he murmured,

stretching out his arms embracingly. " Bah ! " he
cried, drawing back his arms, a big sob ready to
burst from his compressed lips, " I am growing
maudlin."

He dashed his hand across his eyes, and looking
down the stream, watched the blurred lights —
for his eyes were wet with tears — from the lamps
along the quays, the reflections from many of them
finding their way into the river, and sending
long spears of dull yellow flame out into the
stream. The cloud bank in the south had grown
denser and blacker, and was moving menacingly
towards him, blotting out the stars in its progress.
The ebb tide had been gradually gathering
strength, and was gurgling rapidly through the
openings of the bridge. The murmur of voices
from the river, and the clank, now clear and
ringing, from the oars in the rowlocks of boats
returning with the tide, drew the young man's
attention from his gloomy musings. Now and
then the sound of music and of laughter from
the boats as they passed beneath him caused a
smile to flit across his face. He had again forgotten
the lapse of time, when the melancholy

boom of the town clock sounded in his ears and
startled him.

Nine ! " he cried, as the last echo of the clock
died away.

It was quite dark, and the night air had grown
chilly. No one had crossed the bridge for over a
quarter of an hour. He looked around him. He
tried to convince himself that he heard every
moment the hollow sounds of approaching footsteps.
He peered through the darkness, and every
moment he fancied he could distinguish a well-known
figure advancing towards him along the
bridge, which seemed now like some shrub-bordered
avenue. He was fast growing impatient. Could
anything have happened ? Surely she would not
disappoint him wilfully on this — the last night ?
No. This was she at last ! He could not be
mistaken this time.

He walked rapidly towards her.

My darling Susie ! " he cried, seizing her hands,
^' I had almost given up all hope of seeing you."

Have you been waiting long, Dick ? "

I think I have been here an hour, perhaps two
hours. Really I could not tell you how long. Of

course, I did not expect you before nine, darling ;
but I thought I would spend my last night herein
company of my old friend the river."

"And are you really going away in the morning,
Dick ? I can't believe I am to see you no
more for months and months. But perhaps you
are glad to be going away," she pouted. " You
seem quite happy."

Yes, ever so happy while you are near me""
pressing her gloved hand and raising it to his
lips. Then with a mingling of bitterness and
sadness in his voice, " And yet it seems almost
inhuman that I could be light-hearted even for a
moment after — after what has happened."

They now reached the drawbridge.

I have been very low-spirited all the day
Susie," he said, drawing her gently towards the
parapet. " I have been standing here since the
sun went down, full of all sorts of gloomy
memories and dark forebodings."

The river at night always makes me sad,
too," she murmured. " I should be afraid to cross
the bridge after dark. Listen, Dick, to the
water rushing through the piers. All night that

noise will be in my ears. It makes me quite
nervous to listen to it," she cried, with a slight
shiver.

Oh, don't blame the dear old river ! I won't
let anyone say a word against it. It has too many
pleasant memories for me. Susie, my darling," he
cried, swiftly seizing both her hands, and looking
ardently into her dark, luminous eyes, " will you
ever forget me ; will you ever cease to care
for me?"

The girl cast down her eyes, and drawing her
right hand from his clasp, and laying it tenderly
on his right hand, she whispered, —

Why need you ask me that, Dick ; you know
I will never, never forget you."

My own darling ! " he cried, pressing both her
hands ; then in a quieter and graver tone, " but
suppose I were to be a very, very long time away
from you ; suppose I did not get on in the world ;
suppose it were years and years — never is such
a long time," he smiled sadly — " before I could
come back to claim you — would you still be true
to me ? "

You will be much more likely to forget me,

than I to forget you. But you won't be very
long away, Dick, will you ? " she asked tearfully.


Not longer than I can help, you may be quite
sure ; but, indeed, darling, my future does not look
very rosy just now. We must both have hope and
courage, I suppose."

You look so solemn now, Dick," she murmured.
Then, after a little pause, " You have made my
hands so hot. Do, please, let them go."

He released them at once. He wanted ever so
much to take her in his arms and kiss her; but
he had never attempted to kiss her, and he feared
she would repulse him. Why should she snatch
her hands away from him ? He could never understand
girls. In a somewhat careless tone he
said, —

I suppose you must soon go home, Susie ? It
must be near ten now. I hope I shall not be the
means of getting you into trouble with your mother.
I would not have pressed you to come here tonight,
only I could not bear the thought of parting
from you in your own house ; your mother's
eyes never seem to leave me while I am near you.

If I had known, though, that your good-bye would
have been such a cold one, I would not have asked
you to meet me here."

You are vexed now, Dick," she whispered, looking
up at him with half-closed eyes. " What have
I done to vex you ? It is you who are cold, not I."

He glanced swiftly at her. Then in a moment
his arms were round her, and he kissed her
passionately on lips, eyes, and cheek.

When he released her, she sighed, and, placing
one hand caressingly on his cheek, asked, in a
low, tremulous whisper, —

"Did you ever kiss anyone before, Dick — I
mean anyone like — like me ? "

Never, my darling ! " he cried. Then, taking
her white, plump hands, and holding them on
his shoulders, he said, " Now, Susie, dearest, look
me straight in the eyes, and tell me that you
love me, and will never, never love anybody
else. Say it to me, dearest."

I love you, my darling Dick " — and then,
ashamed of her boldness, she hung her head.

My beauty ! " he murmured. Clasping her
once more round the waist, he bent down, and.

placing his lips close to her ear, cried, — "I love
you ! I love you ! I love you ! "

The boom of the town clock startled them.
To both it sounded like a knell.

There, Dick, dearest, let me go," she cried
nervously. " That is ten o'clock striking ; I did
not think it was so late. Is that rain ? "

He held out his hand ; a few heavy raindrops
fell one by one on the palm. Looking up at the
sky he found that the stars were no longer visible.
The cloud had come up from the south, and
stretching itself out, had made the night supremely
dark. The river seemed like a great dull sheet
of bronze, the reflection from the lamps on the
quays looking like dimly-polished patches on the
metal. The distant lights from the quiet town
and the anchor lights of the vessels were fainter
and duller.

I fear there will be a rainstorm before long,"
he said. " You must get home at once. Come,
dearest."

Taking her hand caressingly, he drew her arm
through his, and they walked hurriedly along the
bridge.

You were vexed with me a while ago, Dick,"
she whispered, leaning her head against his shoulder,
and looking up at him, " because I took my hands
away. I think I was almost going to kiss you
then myself."

He stared at her in amazement.

Yes," she went on, " you must think me too
forward and wicked, Dick ; but I may not
see you again for so long — and I could not bear
the thought of parting from you without a kiss ;
and do you know, Dick, I thought it would
be so strange and so cold to keep my gloves
on ! That was why I took my hands away,
Dick."

My darling ! " he cried rapturously.

They were now approaching the gate of the
bridge, and for a moment they stood still. He
was in such a whirl of intoxication that he could
only stare in wonderment at the young face so
temptingly near him. He knew he had many
things to say, many questions to ask, many plans
to arrange ; but he could not formulate his thoughts
into words.

You would never have kissed me," she murmured

— " I mean really kissed me — if I had not
almost asked you. Would you, Dick ? "

He blushed deeply and stammered.

I don't know — I was half afraid of you — oh,
my darling, darling little girl ! I will kiss you
now, though — do, dearest, for the last time, before
the sound of the river dies out in our ears."

THE SAILING OF THE SHIP.

CHAPTER I

DESCRIBES AN Old-fashioned SEAPORT, AND 1
STORMY INTERVIEW.

Longford was an oddly - built, old-fashioned
seaport town in the south of
Ireland. It was situated some dozen
miles from the mouth of a broad river, the Slough,
which flowed alongside the town almost due east
and west, and, for q, considerable distance higher
up than the town, was navigable for ships of large
tonnage. The quay at the southern side of the
river was about a mile in length, and represented
the base of an equilateral triangle with regard to
the town itself; and from it there was a gradual

ascent until the summit of a hill some five hundred
feet above the level of the river was reached.

This quay was wide, and along it were built
houses of various sizes and various styles of architecture.
No one house resembled another; each
possessed a distinct individuality of its own. A
four-storey house, the ground floor a grocer's shop,
might be found, flanked on one side by a two-storey
building, the ground floor a nautical instrument
maker's shop, and on the other side by a
large ungainly - looking building — a corn store —
studded with innumerable small window frames,
whose wooden shutters, painted a dull, heavy brown,
did duty for glass.

There was no private dwelling - house on the
quay ; every building was either a shop, a store,
or an office. Where a fascia board appeared over
a shop window, the proprietor took care to announce
that he appealed chiefly to seafarers. The
grocer had " Ship's stores supplied here," painted
over his window ; the draper, " Seamen's apparel
of all sorts at cost prices ; " the baker, " Ship's
biscuits — best quality;" the butcher, "Prime beef
and pork for ship's use." Even the one vendor

of agricultural implements, who dwelt on the quay,
made it known that there was a forge at the back
of his premises for the use of vessels. The principal
coal and corn stores were also situated on the
quay, and, almost as a matter of course, the Custom
House.

Parallel with the quay, a little higher up in the
town, was a long street, called Princes Street, and
here the nautical element was considerably toned
down. The shops in Princes Street were patronised
chiefly by the resident population and by the
farming classes. There were several private 
here, tenanted by those who had business
in the stores or offices on the quay.

In the more elevated part of the seaport dwelt
the dealers in pigs and cattle, and the shopkeepers
who lived chiefly by them and by the farmers
who visited the town on market days ; but as
this story will attempt to deal only with the maritime
element, there is no occasion to linger in this
purely terrestrial quarter.

On the outskirts of Sloughford at the western
end were a number of straggling streets grouped
together in a higgledy - piggledy fashion. The

streets consisted mainly o£ thatched cottages, and
low two-storey houses, some o£ them in a woefully
dilapidated condition. These houses were
tenanted by labourers, who for the most part
worked on the quay; 'long-shore folk who made
out, somehow, a precarious living amongst the
shipping ; artisans ; and a sprinkling of cattle-dealers
and shopkeepers. This suburb was neither
wholly outside the bounds of Sloughford, nor
wholly within them, and was known as "Yellow
Hill," a title it probably derived from the fact
that the soil was yellow clay. Yellow Hill was
situated on the highest land about the town, and
almost overhung the river above the bridge. In
many places ruins of old Danish castles and fortifications
might be seen, and on the summit of the
hill three sides of a large Anglo - Norman castle
stood almost intact.

On the outskirts of the town, at the eastern end,.
was the aristocratic suburb of River View. The
houses here were all of a modern type, and were
more showy-looking than any of the buildings in
Sloughford town. Here dwelt merchants and ship-owners
who were wealthy, or supposed to be wealthy.

Along the river bank, on the side opposite to
Sloughford, ran a long, narrow quay, lined Vv'ith
large warehouses, stores, and timber yards. There
were a few dwelling-houses at this side of the
river, which was called Bankside, and in one of
them. Woodbine Cottage, dwelt Captain John
M'Cormick's wife — it could scarcely be called the
residence of Captain M'Cormick, for even when
his ship lay in the Slough, the master of the Water
Nyviph not unfrequently took up his quarters
in the cabin of the ship.

As at the Sloughford side of the river, there
was a gradual slope in the ground at Bankside,
and . the front windows of Woodbine Cottage
which was built about midway up the slope of
the hill, commanded an almost uninterrupted view
for two or three miles of the windings of the river
to the eastward.

Bankside was connected with Sloughford by a
wooden bridge, the entrance to which, at the
town side, was at the extreme upper end of the
quay. During the daytime there was a considerable
and continuous traffic across the wooden
bridge, as the most fertile portion of the country
VOL. L B

lay at the Bankside part of the river, and there
was no other means of approaching Sloughford
from the opposite side except by crossing the
bridge — the only one which spanned the river
for twenty miles from its mouth.

Standing on the bridge and gazing down the
river, it would be impossible not to be struck by
the fantastic appearance of Sloughford — the long
line of ships at either side of the river, stretching
itself almost as far as the eye could reach, for at
the lower end of the quay an abrupt bend in the
river shut out a further view of the stream — the
long line of oddly-grouped houses at the town
side, dimly visible through a tangled network
of rigging — the disjointed, uneven line of stores
at Bankside, buildings which could exist nowhere
but in a maritime town, and which seemed impregnated
with a weird nautical spirit. And on
a still summer evening, when the sun was sinking
behind Yellow Hill, its last red rays glancing
along the polished spars of the shipping at Bankside
and lighting up the old-fashioned windowpanes
of the houses until the narrow panes seemed
so many tongues of flame, you would fain close your

eyes, and listening to the ripple of the river,
fancy you had left the busy haunts of men behind
sou, and had been favoured with some old-world
vision, strangely beautiful, and full of peace.

At the upper end of the southern quay, not far
from the entrance to the wooden bridge, stood
the "Bold Dragoon," a public-house whose history
was lost in the mist of ages. A local historian
had on one occasion unearthed documents which
purported to give an account of Sloughford during
the Cromwellian era. Prior to the occupation of
the seaport by the Protector the public house
had been in existence, and, according to the local
historian, was identical with a well-known house
of entertainment called the " Jolly Sailors." Slough-ford
had offered a determined resistance to the
Cromwellians, and in the end had capitulated on
honourable terms. One of the Roundhead troopers
was afflicted with an inordinate thirst, and as
soon as his company entered the town he rushed
headlong to the nearest hostelry, which happened
to be this " Jolly Sailors." While slaking his
thirst he discovered that the landlady was a
remarkably handsome woman, and the trooper instantly

fell head over ears in love with her. He
asked a few questions, learned she was a widow,,
proposed, and was married to the lady within a
week. Then, bidding defiance to the nautical
patrons of the house, he took down the old sign
of the " Jolly Sailors," and got a brand-new one
painted — a portrait of himself on horseback in full
fig. This legend was generally accepted, but there
were other theories propounded with regard to
the oriffl'n of-the sion. At all events the weatherbeaten
horse and horseman painted on the board
which swung and creaked over the door of the
public-house had certainly seen many summers-and
winters go by.

The present landlady of the " Bold Dragoon ""
was Miss Julia Walsh. She was a half - sister
of a certain Captain John M'Cormick, of whom
mention has already been made, and who will
figure prominently in the earlier portion of this
story. Miss Walsh had entered into occupation
about five years before her half-brother had electrified
Sloughford by declaring himself the accepted
suitor of a young lady who lived inside a social
circle where, it was supposed, the pluckiest master-mariner

would not dream of finding a breathing
space.

Under the preceding regni the " Bold Dragoon
" had fallen into ill-repute, and was the
resort of the lowest class of sailors and 'lontr-
shore folk, who were supplied with drink so
vile that the local authorities had been obliged
to interfere, and had refused to grant a renewal
of the licence. The house had then been shut
up and offered for sale. M'Cormick, who was a
shrewder man of business than sailors usually are,
purchased the interest in the lease for a small
sum. Then he brought influence to bear on the
local magistrates, and guaranteed to remodel the
premises, structurally and morally, if a new licence
were granted to his sister. He obtained the licence
with some difficulty, and he carried out his promise
faithfully.

When the " Bold Dragoon " again opened its
doors to the public, it was altogether a reformed
place of entertainment for man and beast. Neither
M'Cormick nor his sister knew anything about the
business of a public-house, and for a few years
they had to submit to being plundered by everyone

— customers, tradespeople, and attendants. But
Miss Walsh did not despair, and gradually the
business began to work smoothly and profitably.
The brightness and cleanliness of the house under
the new management were almost sufficient to
scare away the class who had previously supported
the " Bold Dragoon," and after a short
time it became the resort of a superior class of
customers — the coasting and foreign skippers and
mates, and a sprinkling of the farmers who came
to town on market days, and who possessed a
keen scent for "a good drop."

One room was set apart for the sole use of
the coasting master - mariners and their friends,
and another for the foreign skippers. The former
was known to seafarers as the " Nest ; " and as
it is only with the " Nest " this veracious chronicle
will occasionally have business, it will be unnecessary
to describe the apartment rendered sacred to
the foreign mariners.

The Nest was a long, low-ceilinsred room behind
the shop, the entrance being through a short, narrow
passage at one end of the counter. The doorway
the door itself stood generally wide open — faced

the only window in the room. A deal table, carefully
scoured every morning, occupied the centre of
the floor, and two long moveable forms lay at
either side of the table. There was a large old-fashioned
fireplace at the far end of the room,
with an open space in front capable of accommodating
about half a dozen chairs. A few maps and
charts decorated the white-washed walls, and an
old barometer, an heirloom in the M'Cormick
family, was hung near the doorway.

Julia Walsh was about thirty-eight years of age.
Like her brother, she was tall and large boned ;
but, unlike him, she was thin and sharp-visaged.
She believed herself to be a woman placed by circumstances
altogether out of her natural sphere,
but she knew the wisdom of pocketing her pride ;
and as she always lived in the hope that the " Bold
Dragoon" would be hers after her brother's death,
and as it was virtually hers while he lived, she
did her best to make herself popular with her
customers, without, however, unbending too much.

The majority of the frequenters of the "Bold
Dragoon " looked upon " Miss Julia," as they called
her, as a vastly-superior personage ; but a few of

the skippers, while pretending to regard her with
feelings of reverence and awe, were often ungallant
enough to try and make her ridiculous.

The landlady had one desire — a desire no one
even guessed the strength of — namely, to make a
good match. She knew her brother did not wish
her to marry. He had often tried to demonstrate
to her the wisdom of remaining single, and he had
always held the threat over her head that he would
evict and disinherit her if she married without
consulting him and obtaining his consent.

M'Cormick's reason for not wishing that his sister
should take a partner for life was chiefly because
he felt certain she would marry a man who would
be in some respects objectionable, and this would,
he thought, serve to widen the breach existing
between himself and his wife. Besides, he did not
wish to see his hard-earned money squandered on
some worthless member of society, and he was convinced
his sister's choice would fall either on some
good-looking ne'er-do-well, or on some plausible
scoundrel, with perhaps a little money, who happened
to be on the look-out for a comfortable
home in his declining years.

It may be seen, therefore, that John M'Cormick's
estimation of his step-sister's taste and judgment
was not a very high one. Indeed there was no
love lost between John M'Cormick and Julia Walsh.
The former acted the part of protector towards
the latter altogether from a sense of duty, and
in respect for the memory of his mother, whose
child Julia was.

During the afternoon of the fourteenth of
March, some twenty years ago, M'Cormick had a
short interview with his sister, which resembled
the month of March in the manner of its 'proverbial
beginning and ending. He had been ina
particularly unpleasant mood on account of a
serious quarrel with his wife — serious at least on
his part, for Mrs M'Cormick always treated her
husband with infinite scorn whenever, as was too
often the case, he chose to pick a groundless
quarrel with her.

Look here, Julia ! " he said abruptly to his
sister, as they stood in the foreign skippers' room,
I know very well things won't go far wrong
while I am in Sloughford and can keep my eye
on you ; but I have heard a few stories about

you lately, and if I find you carrying on with
any fellow without consulting me, you will find
yourself in the wrong boat, I can tell you. I
have always meant to act fairly by you. Don't
think your tossing your head makes any impression
on me, madam ! God knows I have done
my duty by you ever since my mother made
you over to me ; but I'll stand no nonsense.
This place " — here he stamped his foot violently
on the floor, and struck the table a heavy blow
" is mine — mine, I tell you. It may belong to-you
one day if you don't go flying in my face,,
but if you do, look out for squalls ! "

Indeed ! " sneered Miss Julia, her bosom heaving
with a rage which she found herself powerless
to control. " I know well the cause of your
anxiety for my future welfare. It's all the nonsense
that doll-faced chit, your wife, is putting
into your head."

Chit ! " cried M'Cormick furiously. " How dare
you ! How dare you speak like that to me of
my wife ! Get out of the house, woman. Get out
of miy house ! Do you hear me ? "

Miss Walsh saw that she had made a false

move, and had angered her brother beyond
measure. She therefore determined to be diplomatic,
and burst into tears.

"Yes, I'll go. I'll leave the place," she sobbed.
I could not stand being treated by you as
you have treated me now. You have been very
good to me, and it breaks my heart to see you
constantly viewing my actions in a wrong light'*
And she sank on a chair, and sobbed as if her
heart would break.

M'Cormick's rough heart was touched by this
spectacle of a broken-hearted woman — what man
can resist a woman's tears ? — and, his voice losing
all its former harshness, he said, —

Don't get on like that, Julia. I'm a madman
when my cursed temper gets the better of
me." He caught her hands and took them not
ungently from her eyes. " There," he said, " forget
it all. I know I'm a brute — but you don't
know how it angers me to hear my wife spoken
slightingly of."

"You must allow, John," whined Miss Walsh,
that it is very hard on me to have you constantly
taxing me with carrying on flirtations

instead of minding the business and making
money — for that's what you mean, I know. I
give you my word you wrong me."

*' But why do you drag my " wife's name into
our disputes, Julia ? "

Because I know she hates me. She looks
upon me as the dirt beneath her feet," cried Miss
Walsh, her temper for the moment getting the
better of her discretion.

Let me tell you that you are quite mistaken.
I never heard Susan say one single word that
could lead me to believe that she hated you.
So far as I know, she never said anything against
you in all her life."

Said anything," sneered Miss Walsh, in an
undertone ; " she's too cunning for that."

Fortunately her brother did not hear this remark.
The mere thought of his wife had softened
his wrath more effectually even than his sister's
bogus tears, and had put him into a pleasant
humour. His sister saw he had not overheard
her hasty words, and determined to be more
prudent.

M'Cormick was silent for a few minutes. Then

he said, " Well, Julia, I'll bid you good-bye now,
for this will be an extra busy day. Don't think
too badly of me. I have been a lot put out
latterly over many things. Don't fret yourself
about leaving this place. There is such a thing
as a will, even if I were to die suddenly — but I
mustn't say anything. I'll take care lawyers
or bankers don't get hold of Tny will. I know a
safer place not many hundred yards off from
here. Good-bye, Julia ; I shan't see you again
before I sail."

Miss Walsh bade her brother a tender and tearful
farewell, and saw him to the door.

Then she retired behind the counter, and seating
herself before a small desk smoothed her hands
and smiled complacently. She had learned one
fact, at all events, which caused her to feel remarkably
comfortable. Her brother had made his
will. He had treated her handsomely in it; of
that she was quite certain. He would not have
hinted mysteriously at a will unless it were oneby
which she would be a gainer beyond her expectations.
At the very least he had left her the
Bold Dragoon," and, no doubt, a lump of hard

cash with it. She had been anxious that he
should make his will, for a sailor's life is so
uncertain — and she was quite under the impression
that everything would go to her brother's wife if
he died intestate.

Another fact she had got hold of, or almost
got hold of, was that the will had been, or
would be, left in charge of Mr Butler, the ship-broker.
There was no one else in Sloughford
whom her brother trusted implicitly. She would
send for Butler's clerk. Madden. He was a communicative
young fellow, and she had no doubt he
was acquainted with all his employer's business
secrets. Yes, Madden was the very person to aid
her in discovering the nature of her brother's will.
She would write a note to him asking him to
call upon her the following evening, when her
brother would have sailed from the port. She
could never know an easy mind until the contents
of the will were discovered.

GIVES A PEEP AT THE INTERIOR OF A SHIPBROKER's
OFFICE.

HE offices o£ James Butler, shipbroker,
were situated on the quay, about a
hundred yards lower down than the
Bold Dragoon." The house was an unpretentious
one-storey building, with a rough - plastered front
and a high red-tiled roof. It stood between a
grocer's shop and a ship-chandler's. The former
was a somewhat imposing - looking structure of
three storeys, and the latter was about the same
size as Butler's house, but offered a strong contrast
to it by reason of a projecting eave, a bright
yellow-washed front, and a slated roof.

Butler's father had been a ship broker in Slough-ford,
but late in life he had fallen in for a considerable

sum of money and a small property in
Devonshire. He had then left his native town and
settled down in Ilfracombe. James Butler, who
was an only son, had accompanied his father to
Ilfracombe. He was then about twenty-two years
of age. In less than ten years his father succeeded
in frittering away his money and his property
in mining speculations, and died penniless.
His son had led a comparatively idle life during
these years, occasionally renewing his acquaintance
with Sloughford and its people.

When he was thirty-two years of age he returned
abruptly to his native town, bringing with
him a young girl, the only child of his dead sister.
He took a private house of modest dimensions in
Princes Street, and started as a ship-agent in his
present office on the quay.

There were three ship brokers in Sloughford at
the time when this story opens. One confined
himself exclusively to foreign or foreign - going
ships ; another, a retired sea-captain named Thorn-hill,
divided with Butler, who was now in his
forty-eighth year, the chief business of the port
the coasting ships' business. Butler occasionally

dabbled in foreign waters, and he had an interest
in a few of the smaller ships belonging to the
port, for during the sixteen years he had been in
business at Sloughford, he had been successful far
beyond his expectations. He employed two clerks,
Arthur Madden and Michael Ryan ; and there was-also
attached to his establishment a messenger, or
runner," Edward Murphy — usually called Foxy
Ned.

James Butler was a little above the medium
height, and was somewhat sparely built. His
clean-shaven face was pale and careworn. His
eyes were dark and passionless in repose, but
when he smiled a lambent flame illumined them.
Those who knew Butler liked to see him smile.
His clearly - cut features ordinarily bore an expression
which was rather cold and repellant, but
when he smiled, people felt they were in the
presence of a man whose heart was full of kindliness
and sympathy.

The ship broker was on terms of that peculiar

kind of familiarity which breeds not contempt,.

with all classes in his native town. Still his

nearest friends were obliged to admit that there

VOL. I. c

was a strange, inexplicable reserve about him
which made them shy of prying into his affairs.
People wondered why he did not marry, but no
one cared to ask him why he preferred a single life.

Those who had business transactions with him
found they could place implicit trust in James
Butler. He was sharp-witted, speculative, and
straightforward. In Sloughford no one was held
in higher esteem, either by his equals in the
social scale, or by his inferiors, or superiors. His
superiors, or at least those who chose to fancy
themselves his superiors, were sometimes deferential,
always respectful, in his presence.

But whatever the inhabitants of Sloughford
thought of him, there was one class which almost
worshipped him — the coasting skippers — whether
natives of Sloughford or elsewhere, who had known
him for years, and who had come to look upon
him as the apotheosis of the ship broker. Butler
did not seek, nor did he covet, anything bordering
on hero-worship. He was attached in a peculiar
way to his business, and to those by whose help
he had succeeded in making a comfortable provision
for himself ; and he treated all skippers.

whether young or old, rich or poor, in a fatherly-fashion
; and they on their part were all eager to
prove themselves worthy of his regard. Some of
his clients — not half-a-dozen, perhaps — he singled
out for his especial marks of friendship, and for a
few he could scarcely restrain his unexpressed contempt
; but the majority was looked upon by him
in the same liofht as a brood schoolmaster looks
upon his pupils ; and he endeavoured to show that
^' favouritism " had no place in his composition.

On the ground-floor of the ship broker's office
there were two rooms, divided by a long, narrow
passage. At one end of the passage was the
entrance door, and at the other end a door, usually
bolted, which opened on to a small yard where coals
and wood, for office use, and lumber, were scattered
in reckless confusion.

The private business of the place, such as the
correspondence and the consultations with mariners
or merchants, was conducted in the office at the left-hand
side of the passage. Here also the business
of the foreign-going ships was transacted. The
general office, where the coasting ships' business
was done, and where the coasting skippers sat, and

smoked, and chatted, read the newspapers, and
signed their shipping documents, was at the
right-hand side of the passage.

Butler was usually to be found in the office at
the right-hand side, for he always seemed most
happy when he was in the midst of a throng of
merchant captains — arguing with them, advising them.
adjusting their squabbles, listening to their good
stories, or to their tales of trouble and hardship.

During the winter months there was always a
roaring fire in this office, and there in the long
evenings Butler, when the business of the day was
well-nigh finished — after four o'clock the business
proper of a ship broker is virtually at an end for
the day — he would take a chair and form one of
the semi circular group seated around the fireplace.
He sat with his friends the skippers solely because
it afforded him a harmless pleasure, and was oblivious
to the fact that the skippers looked upon
his presence in their midst as an act of condescending
good-nature. When Butler was chatting
with them they were as much delighted as a
parcel of schoolboys playing leap-frog with their
tutor.

It was amusing to watch the countenances and
the actions of the skippers, when the shipbroker
^' took the chair." The mariner who, prior to Butler's
approach, had arrogated to himself the poker,
placed that fire-iron quietly and reverentially in a
position where it might be easily grasped by the
governor." The mariner who had been carrying
all before him by sheer weight of his trumpetlike
voice, during a dispute as to the respective
merits of Wellington and Napoleon, lowered his
voice and said, "You'll put us all right, governor,
won't you ? You see, I have been trying to prove
to the boys here that old Boney really won the
battle of Waterloo, and I'm blessed but they think
tis daft I am. They'll take it from you though,
governor, if you put it to them straight." " Excuse
me, sir," another skipper would observe, rising and
approaching the half-open door, " there's a nasty
draught coming in there, right at your back."
^' This is a warmer corner of the fire, Mr Butler.
Would you oblige by changing seats with me ? "
I'll put a fresh shovelful of coals on the fire, sir,
if you don't object."

And so on, each skipper vying with the other

to render the ship broker as comfortable as possible.


During the evenings of* the fourteenth of March,,
Butler was seated at the fire at the general office
sometimes called Ryan's office, as Michael Ryan
had his desk there — in the company of half-a-dozen
mariners.

A drowsy silence had fallen upon the group. The
worry of the day's business was over, and the ship-broker
was indulging in a quiet nap. The skippers,
fearful of disturbing him, had ceased to speak, and
were now endeavouring — some of them in vain —
to resist the soporific influence of the glowing fire.

We will take advantage of the silence, and introduce
the skippers one by one.

That plump, bullet-head, little man with the
twinkling blue eyes and the pasty complexion is
Captain Patrick Carmody. His button-shaped nose
looks like a bit of sealing wax stuck on a piece of
whitey-brown paper. He wears no hair on his face
except that bristly black tuft on his chin, which
lends him a somewhat ferocious aspect. His countenance,
it must be confessed, is a pretty fair index
of his temperament, for he is extremely irritable.

One of his fellow-skippers has dubbed him " Carping
Pat ; " but the nickname is seldom mentioned
in Carmody's hearing. He has a large family,
and is sadly henpecked.

The low-sized, bow-legged man who wears the
sour-wester, and who is now sitting alongside Car-body,
is Captain Anthony Arkwright. Though
not a native of Sloughford, he is a well-known
figure to young and old in that seaport. He is
a master-mariner retired from business. He is fond
of donning a sour-wester on the smallest possible
provocation — a threatening sky is sufficient excuse
in order that you may not forget that he has
been a seaman, and is still at heart a seaman.
For many years he has traded in and out of the
port, and he has now settled down in Sloughford,
having scraped together a very slender fortune —
"a pittance," he terms it. He often hints mysteriously
at " better days," and sometimes he makes
mention of " a parent on the male side," who was
connected largely with house property ; but no
one has ever discovered whether Arkwright senior
was the owner of property, the agent, the architect,
or one who carried a hod. He is excessively

fond of long words and uncommon phrases,
and with the aid of a powerful magnifying glass
he is a trifle near-sighted — he studies Webster's
dictionary at every possible opportunity. His
friends try to refrain from laughing at his verbal
eccentricities, for he is too good-natured to be
made a butt of ; but frequently he becomes a
most irritating companion. Usually he wears his
hands deep in his breeches pocket, and seldom
withdraws them except for the purpose of lighting
a pipe, grasping a tumbler, or rubbing the
side of his nose nervously with his forefinger.
stow and again Captain Arkwright indulges too
freely in the wine of his adopted country ; but
he is, after a fashion, a shrewd little man, and
he has the good taste, when he has drunk too
deeply, not to expose his condition to the mocking
light of day. When he is overcome by potations,
his mode of progression through the streets
of Sloughs ord — almost deserted after nightfall — is
peculiar. He does not, like the ignorant landsman,
reel or stagger, but with the instinct of a
true-born tar, he makes " short tacks." When he is
desirous of turning a corner, he steadies himself

for a moment on one leg — a marvellous feat fora
tipsy man — and suddenly (hiccuping " 'Bout
ship ! ") wheels round the other leg ; and then he
continues to make further short tacks until necessity
compels him to turn another corner. In this
manner he generally continues to " beat a passage
" safely to his own hall door. " Captain
Arkwright on a wind" is a figure well remembered
by old Sloughfordians.

That pale, hollow-checked, restless man with
the bright red hair and the white fanatical forehead
is Captain James Sullivan. He is slightly
crazy about matters senatorial : otherwise he is as
dull and uninteresting a specimen of humanity as
one could find in a seaport town. Sullivan is
constantly discovering some wondrous and infallible
means for restoring health and prolonging life.
Nearly every voyage he changes his mind, and
abandons one infallible nostrum for another still
more infallible. He is not selfish or secretive ;
in fact, his most ardent desire is to benefit humanity
at large by his marvellous discoveries.

The fat, heavily-built man, in the faded blue
monkey-jacket, who is seated — his arms folded

across his broad chest — near Arkwright, is Captain
John Brothers. He has seen some fifty-five summers,
but at first sight you would fancy he was
not more than forty years of age. His great round
cheeks almost shut out a view of his leaden-coloured,
expressionless eyes. His nose is broad
and flat, and his oily-looking face is hairless. It
is not easy to discover the line of demarcation
between his chin and his neck. It seems as if
Nature's plastic hand had been smoothed over
his features at an early period, and had rubbed
away all corners and squareness. He is not a
man of great conversational powers : his sentences
are usually brief ; but the end of every sentence
is punctuated with an impressive, self-satisfied
snort. Broaderss is not given to levity, and
when he does condescend to smile, he tries to
convey the impression that he has conferred a
priceless boon upon you. When he walks through
the streets he holds his head high, and swings
his arms. He seldom stops to gaze about him,,
but seems ever burdened with weighty business
cares. He drinks heavily, but he seldom loses
his physical or his mental balance, for his constitution

is a powerful one. He has a theory that
every man, as a matter of course, consumes as
much ardent spirits as his constitution will stand.
A moderate drinker he regards as a man in a poor
state of health. A total abstainer in his eyes is one
whose life is not worth a week's purchase.

The light-haired, full-bearded, delicate man, from
whose countenance a foolish smile is seldom absent,
is Captain Cummins. He is ten years younger
than Broaderss. Although he is narrow of chest
and round of shoulders, he is outwardly a superior
specimen of the coasting mariner. His black' coat
is fairly well cut, and his soft felt hat and
snow - white shirt front help to contrast him
favourably with the badly-dressed pair between
whom he is now sitting — namely, Captains Sullivan
and Broaderss. Cummins has already buried two
wives, and is eager to marry a third. He is
aware that his smile is very fetching to feminine
eyes, and his chiefs delight is to win a smile
from ladies' eyes. He is indeed an arrant flirt ;
but there is a method in his amatory folly. He
seldom makes downright love to any woman who
is not possessed of attractions more substantial than

mere p'oocI looks. It is his intention to mate with

o

the landlady of some thriving public-house, and
then to retire from the sea, with all its dangers and
delights.

Standing at one side of the fireplace, his elbow
on the mantelpiece, his head supported by his
hand, is a wiry-looking, slovenly-dressed man with
small head and squarely-cut features. He is tall,
fully five feet eleven inches ; slender of build, and
straight as a whip. A back view of him reminds
you of a colossal Dutch doll. His cast of countenance
is' severe — perhaps the scar across his cheek
has something to do with his severe aspect —
but his smile is a pleasant one. At present his
mental and physical energies are concentrated on
an efibrt to tickle surreptitiously Arkwright's
ear with a long straw. He appears to enjoy himself
immensely at that worthy mariner's uneasiness
whenever he has succeeded in compelling him to
rub his ear ; and it is not difficult to determine
that the big Dutch doll is fond of practical joking
in any shape or form. Indeed, Captain Tom
Bendall has the reputation of being the most incorrigible
practical joker afloat. His pranks, it

must be added, are of a very mild quality ; but the
business of the sea is so serious that a freak which
to a landsman would seem to be very ,
would to a seawater taste strongly of
brine. Bendall enjoys his own jokes immensely
and he is subject to fits of chuckling which often
threaten to induce convulsions.

Last, but not least, among the oddly-assorted
group in the ship broker's office, is that painfully
well-dressed — for a seawater — person who is now
busy taking a reef in the string which secures-his
umbrella. This is Captain Augustine Flynn
You may observe that he has a very solemn, nay
funereal, cast of countenance, and that he is the
only member of the group who wears a silk hat
or carries an umbrella. He is called " the Bishop "
by his companions, doubtless on account of his
didactic discourse, his carefully-shaven face and
well washed hands, and his clean linen and silk
hat — the mariners of Sloughford evidently considering
his tastes and sympathies distinctively of
an episcopal nature. He always speaks slowly
and with earnestness, and he gives one the impression
that he is addressing a congregation from

the pulpit. In his voice there is a peculiar and
mournful cadence which causes those who are "bad
sailors " to feel quite giddy. At one moment it
seems as if the Bishop were speaking from the
crest of the mounting wave and next moment as
if he had fallen headlong into the trough of the
sea, ay, to the very bottom of the ocean. He has
to endure a good deal of chaff from his nautical
friends, especially in connection with his silk hat
and umbrella. Bendall, however, is the only
skipper with whom Flynn ever cares to expostulate.
Although Captain Tom has a sincere
regard for the Bishop, he can never resist the
temptation of playing some childish pranks with
the " crozier," as he calls Flynn 's umbrella, or
with the " mitre," as he calls the hat. Sometimes
it seems impossible to stave off a downright
quarrel between Captains Bendall and Flynn, but
coasting master-mariners of the old school were
peculiar in the matter of quarrels. They would
abuse each other in such a manner that a
stranger might reasonably imagine blows would
rapidly take the place of words ; but somehow
they appeared to forget their ill-humour with

peculiar rapidity, and, instead of blows, hard words
would be followed by remarkably soft speeches.

The ship broker and his friends were suddenly
roused from their reveries by the entrance of
Captain John M'Cormick, a big, raw-boned man
with sad, stern, grey eyes.

Good evening, governor. Good evening, lads,"
he smiled — not a pleasant smile by any means.
*' Enjoying yourselves, as usual ! "

It was easy to see that the master of the Water
Nyrtijih was in an excitable mood.

Won't you sit down and join our little party ? "
asked Butler, rubbing his eyes, wheeling round his
chair, and facing the newcomer.

No, governor. Not now, thank you. Much
obliged all the same. I want to have a few
words with you privately — you'll excuse me, skippers,
won't you ? I know you'll all be thinking
every minute an hour until the governor is back
with you again. I won't keep him long, I promise
you. Excuse me, won't you ? "

Certainly, certainly," chorused the skippers,
rising when the ship broker rose.

I am sorry," said the latter, " that you won't
be sociable, M'Cormick, but if you want to say
anything privately to me, you had best come into
the other office. Madden is gone for the evening."

M'Cormick and Butler then left Ryan's office,
crossed the passage, and entered the office at the
other side — " Madden's office," as it was called.

The skippers re-seated themselves around the fire.

Big Mac looks a bit scared," said Captain
Cummins, when the door of Madden's office was-closed.


Oh I the usual complaint, no doubt. A row
with the missus," sneered Captain Carmody. " The
governor has always to be brought to Castle
M'Cormick when Jack is after having a row
with Jill."

He's a rum customer is John M'Cormick,"
snorted Captain Broaderss. " I often wonder the
woman that's married to him doesn't cut and
run. They say he bangs her about when he's ina
temper."

Believe half what you hear, neighbour," said
Captain Bendall sententiously. " He's too fond of
Mrs Mac for that sort of work, believe me."

Quite a case o£ love in a cottage," laughed
Captain Carmody derisively. " Woodbine Cottage,.
to wit."

"Fie, fie, Pat!" said the Bishop. "I wonder
at you to be exhibiting such a carping, nasty
manner. If a man doesn't happen to live peaceably
and quietly with his wife, should that be
made the subject of ribald jests in a public office ? "

But the skippers were wrong as to the cause of
M'Cormick's visit.

When Butler closed the door of Madden's
office behind himself and the master of* the
Water Nymph, he turned up the gas at full
flare, and said, —

Well, M'Cormick, what is troubling you now ? "

I want you to do me a favour, Mr Butler.
I hope you don't think I'm too great a trouble
to you."

Not at all, my dear sir. I am always happy to
be of service to an old friend like yourself; but
you mustn't ask me for a loan of a thousand
pounds just now," he laughingly added. "Times
are bad."

Ah ! I'm glad to see you laugh, sir. I can't face

VOL. L J)

you when you are serious-looking. No ! It isn't
money I want, though I don't forget long ago when
you did me many a good turn in that line. There
isn't a man like you, sir — "

Surely," interrupted the ship broker, " you didn't
come here to pay me compliments ? "

No, sir," replied M'Cormick sheepishly. " I want
you to take charge of some documents of importance
of the greatest importance — to me. That's what
brings me here to-night."

And why not place documents of importance with
a lawyer or a banker ? "

Because I don't want to — prying, blabbing lot !
There, excuse my temper, sir ; but you know I'd
rather trust you than all the banks or lawyers in
Christendom ; and when I take a crotchet into my
head, it isn't easy to drive it out."

Yes, I am aware of that. All right, M'Cormick,
I'll lock your papers up, if that is what you want ;
but I hope there is nothing of money value, for I
would not like the risk. This place could easily be
broken into, if a thief thought it worth his while to
break into it. As a rule, I don't keep money here at
night — more from habit than through fear, I must

admit — for I'm not over anxious to place temptation
in anybody's way."

There is nothing worth stealing, I assure you ;
the documents could not possibly be of the slightest
use to anyone except myself."

You're a strange man, M'Cormick. Come,
what's the matter with you to-night ? You look
troubled. Out with it! By the way — you must
excuse me for not asking you before — how is Mrs
M'Cormick? Quite well, I hope?"

Quite well, sir, thank you. I am troubled.
I have been quarrelling with myself, and with
her, and with everyone."

I thought there was to be an end of that."

Don't look so sternly at me, Mr Butler-heaven
knows I hate myself. I can't help my
temper. It masters me — and she's as good as
gold, sir, ten thousand times too good for a
fellow like me. But she tvon't care for me, and
it drives me wild sometimes when I think of it."

M'Cormick paused, and waited for a few minutes,
hoping the ship broker would say something; but
Butler was silent.

I made my will the other day, and although

I haven't been altogether bad to her in it, I haven't
been half food enough — and still I don't know.
Why should she, who hates me, despises me, have
my money ? Sometimes I'm half-crazy, and think
of blowing out my brains, and leaving her without
a penny-piece."

Sit down, M'Cormick. You are talking rubbish
now — pure rubbish. Have you been drinking ? "

No. Nothing to upset me."

Well, sit down, man, and talk sense. Take
that stool. There, that's better. If your will is
a foolish or a vindictive one, burn it, burn it at
once, or get a new will drawn up before you
sail."

No time for that now, even if I were so
inclined."

Well, when you come back from Quebec. But
destroy the present weill if you have treated your
wife unfairly in it."

How would she be situated suppose I were to
die without a will ? "

Let me see," said the ship broker, biting his
thumb ; " she would, I think, get half of everything."


'' And the other half ? "

Would go to your sister. She is the only other
relative you have."

"Damn her!"

For shame, M'Cormick ! It is shocking to
hear you speak, as you sometimes do, of your
sister."

I am sorry for making use of coarse expressions
before you, Mr Butler ; but I don't look
upon Julia as a sister at all ; and she made
mischief in the beginning between my wife and
myself. No, I won't destroy my will. Til let
it stand until I return. On the voyage I'll have
time to think over everything."

M'Cormick, who was seated on a high stool
at the office desk, now buried his face in his
hands.

Butler, who had been standing with his back
towards the fireplace, with a puzzled expression on
his face, approached the master of the Water Nymph
and placing his hand on his shoulder, said gently, —

Look here, John M'Cormick ; you know I have
a sincere regard for you. Why can't you turn over
>a new leaf ? Quick-tempered as you are, there is

only one point on which you are utterly unreasonable."


My wife ! " said M'Cormick, lifting his head.
Why, can't she see I'd give my eyes for a word
or a token of affection from her ! " and he dashed
his hand roughly across his face.

"Be a man, M'Cormick ! " said the shipbroker
tenderly ; " you are to blame, not she. No woman
would stand your absurd outbursts of temper. Instead
of treating your wife kindly aud gently in the
beginning, you thought fit to show yourself in your
worst light to her. You abused her, bullied hers
and sulked, because she couldn't see a young Adonis
in you. And now you are surprised she has not
learnt to love you,"

She hates and despises me."

Nonsense. You know better ; and if she did,.
you have only yourself to blame, Remember I
implored you, when you asked my advice, not
to make Susan Neville marry you. I knew
there was little likelihood of your living happily
together. There was the difference in ages for
one thing ; and then you ought to have reflected
that, while you were brought up and

lived the best part of your life among the
roughest of the rough, she was reared in the
midst of refinement.

Curse refinement ! "

Ay, that was what you always said ; but what
is the good arguing or lecturing ? What's done
can't be undone ; and if you would only determine
even now, earnestly determine, to win your wife's
regard by kindness, I am confident you would
succeed."

I don't believe it. But, Mr Butler, I'm taking
up your time."

M'Cormick got off the stool and placed his hand
in the breast-pocket of a capacious overcoat.

"I'll leave this case in your hands, sir, and
I'll ask you to give me your word you'll
tell nobody about it or about our conversation
to-night."

"Yes, I will give you my word."

M'Cormick handed the ship broker a tin case
fastened with a small padlock. Butler took his
keys from his pocket and opened the heavy door
of the office safe.

Will it be all right there ? " inquired M'Cormick.

Certainly. No one except Madden has a
duplicate of the key of the safe door, and no one
except myself has the key of this inside drawer
where you see me now placing your case. I suppose
the will is here ? " tapping the case as he
placed it in the inside of the safe.

Yes, sir. I didn't mean to tell you about my
will when I came in, but it slipped on me somehow.
I didn't want anyone to know about it ;
but after all I suppose it's only so much wastepaper,
for I'll make up my mind to alter it and
leave her everything. I feel better since I had a
talk with you. I always feel better after a talk with
you. I'm sorry now I'm going to sail tomorrow."

I wish you had left the documents with your
lawyer, or at the bank, for I have responsibilities
enough without this," said Butler, closing the
door of the safe. " I do hope you have put nothing
of money value into the case. • Someone
may hear — it may slip from yourself, for. your
tongue often runs away with you — that you have
been depositing papers of value with me, and as I
told you, I can give you no guarantee of the
security of an office like this."

"Don't have the slightest uneasiness, sir. No
one knows the object of my visit here, and no
one will know of it from me. Besides, as I have
already assured you, I am asking you to take
charge of nothing which could be of the smallest
value to anybody. But won't you promise me to
be silent about it — about everything that passed
between us to-night ? " asked M'Cormick, his hand
on the handle of the office door.

I never break my word, whatever it may cost
me," said the ship broker, turning down the gas.

CONTAINS SOME IDLE CONVERSATION.

I HE following day the barque Water
Nynfiph, six hundred and seventy tons
register, lay at anchor in the river
Slough, ready to proceed to sea. The wind was
from the east ; and as the Water Nyrti'ph was
notoriously a fast sailer, and her commander and
sole owner notoriously a " driver," it was expected,
should the easterly wind last, that the
barque would arrive at her port of destination,
Quebec, in less than three weeks.

A group of coasting skippers — the same group
which had congregated in Butler's office the previous
evening — stood on the quay of that seaport,,
and shook their heads ominously when they saw

the tug-boat paddling towards the barque about
eleven o'clock in the forenoon.

The day was dull. Overhead, ragged gloomy-looking
patches of cloud were borne swiftly across
the sky ; the air was raw and biting ; and the
river, a muddy-green mass of water, was swollen
and angry-looking. The shrill melancholy cry of
the seagull was heard high above every other
sound which reached the quay. No wonder then
that the Sloughford skippers were not in high
spirits, and that they were little inclined for conversation,
as they stood gazing at the black* restless
hull of the barque.

Captain Carmody was the first to break the
silence.

Mark my words, boys," he cried, turning round
and addressing the group, " the Water' Nymph will
get a peppering in the Western Ocean this trip."

"It's a toss-up between the ice and the equinoctials,"
said Bendall, hastily taking a straw from
Ark Wright's ear and putting his hand behind his
back ; " but I'm game to lay odds on the ice. What
say you, neighbour Arkwright ? "

Too anticipatory by a calendar month is my

ultimatum," said Arkwright, scratching his ear.
Big Jack's impetuosity will, as you suggest. Captain
Bendall, eventuate in his annihilation."

The barque isn't as young as she used to
be," said Sullivan. " There's no hiding the fact
that we all grow older as the years go by, and
still we neglect to set up a stock of health for
our old age. Now, perhaps I haven't told you,
neighbours, I've just discovered that salt in large
quantities — "

Oh, man, dear," interrupted Carmody, " for
the love of goodness will you not be bothering
us with yourself and your nostrums. 'Tis fairly
persecuted we are between your crazes and Arkwright's
jawbreakers."

Having silenced Captain Sullivan, Carmody lifted
one hand to his forehead, and shading his eyes,
cried, —

There they go at the anchors, boys ; and, if
I'm not very much mistaken, that's Mrs M'Cormick
herself that's being rowed ashore in the boat.
Well," taking down his hand and staring fiercely
at his companions, as if one or all of them had
seriously offended him, "I only hope big Jack

won't fall foul of an iceberg, and make a widow
of the decent woman."

That oughtn't to cause her a great deal of
grief," snorted Broaderss.

"Better say that to M'Cormick himself, John""
rejoined Captain Martin Cummins. " He'd make a
widow of your missus pretty quick, John, if he
heard you talking like that."

Well," said Captain Arkwright, " I would not
cast imputations against the lady if she didn't
lament herself into a sarcophagus after her husband,
supposing he was to collide with an iceberg, for
he's got the most extremely heinous temper — "

What are you saying, man ? What ails you at
all ? What sort of things are them sarphocasuses
you are getting into your head this time ? " asked
Carmody. " You ought to have one of them shoved
down your gullet. I hate to hear a man talking-like
you, Arkwright, at your time of life, too. I
wish you'd learn sense, man."

Arkwright laughed scornfully, but said nothing.

"Ah, she's a nice, beautiful woman," sighed
Cummins softly, as if he were awaking from a
pleasant dream. "Not," he added, quickly and

nervously, "that I wish Jack M'Cormick any mishap,
all the same."

What on earth are you driving at, Cummins ? "
asked Bendall.

An angry look stole into Cummins' eyes, but he
made no reply to his tormentor.

What is it you're driving at, Cummins ? "
again demanded Captain Tom. " I'm blest if I
don't think you were dreaming already of making-love
to big Mac's widow. Oh, dear ! oh, dear !
what is the world coming to at all ? "

Mind your own business, Tom Bendall ! "
snarled Cummins. "You have a deal of impudence
to be meddling in what doesn't concern you ; and
I'd have you to know — "

Fie ! fie ! gentlemen," interrupted Captain Flynn,
I must speak at last, for I am fairly shocked
at your conversation. You have no right — I address
myself to you all — to talk in this light
and frivolous manner of any man's wife ; and it
ill becomes you, Tom Bendall, to be laughing
and joking about making love to widows that
are far, let us hope and pray " — here he lifted
his eyes reverently and made a sweeping gesture

with his left hand, a wonderfully small, well-formed
hand for a seawater — " far, I repeat, from being
widows yet. Fie, lie, lie ! And you too, Pat,"
addressing Carmody ; " for I think it was you that
began this light and dangerous conversation into which
most of you have drifted as it were into a whirlpool.
Oh, fie, fie ! to let your tongues scandalise you ! "

Hear, hear ! " cried Arkwright excitedly, withdrawing
his hands from his pocket; and rubbing
his nose violently, he made a mental note to lookup
the word " scandalise." He knew all about
^' scandalised mainsails," but " scandalised tongues "
puzzled him.

Bravo Bishop ! Let 'em have it hot and
strong," cried Captain Carmody, almost at the same
moment that Arkwright spoke. Then shading his
eyes again with his hand, he continued, in a rasping
tone, — " There's no mistake about it. That is
Mrs Mac herself in the boat. Doesn't see enough
of the dear man ashore, I suppose. Well, wonders
will never cease. What a pair of turtle-doves herself
and Jack have turned themselves into 1 Well,
I'm blessed ! "

It would be a merciful dispensation of Providence,

sir, if you were ! " exclaimed Arkwright indignantly.
" And what business have you, pray, to
sneer at anybody ? Faugh ! If there's one thing I
despise more than another it is innuendo."

In-new what ? " asked Carmody, with rising-temper.


Shame, shame, gentlemen ! " groaned the Bishop.
I don't see what right any of you have to take
it for granted that John M'Cormick and his wife
are not a united pair."

The Lion and the Unicorn ! " laughed Carmody
mockingly.

Owing to a lifelong study of the Royal Arms on
the doors of various Custom Houses, he had arrived
at the belief that these animals were emblematic of
a loving and undying partnership.

Ah," murmured the Bishop dreamily, " I remember
her well before John M'Cormick forced her into
matrimony with himself."

Forced her ! " exclaimed Arkwright ; " then you
mean to impute that she did not marry of her
own free will. You know," he added apologetically,
" I am not as much at home about the histories
of our worthy townsfolk as the rest of you.

being partly an alien by birth. What is her story,.
Captain Flynn ? I do not inquire through motives
of ignorant curiosity, but merely for wholesome information."


"You see," said the Bishop, who was ever eager
for a quiet gossip, " she was engaged to a young
fellow belonging to the town, a son of a wealthy
merchant, Dalton by name."

I remember him. Rather a reckless sort of man.
Shot himself, didn't he ? "

No. He died suddenly, nevertheless ; and — I
know how matters have got mixed in your head —
ruin was the result, not only to his family, but to
others, for his death was the cause of dragging
down the present Mrs M'Cormick's father, and he
shot himself. Now do you see where you got hold
of the wrong end of the yarn ? "

I do. I do. Thing's ivill get blended promiscuously
in a man's mind. Well ? "

The Neville — that's Mrs M'Cormick's people —
were ruined ; the Dalton — the young man's name
was Richard Dalton — were ruined.

Yes, yes. I apprehend. He is at sea now, this

Richard Dalton — master of a ship, is he not ? "
VOL. I. E

He is. A nice, agreeable young man, too, as far
as my recollection goes. Well, the widow — Mrs
Neville, I mean — got to the end of the tether — a
clean-swept hold, if I may so remark it — a couple
of years after her husband's untimely death — for
there was something saved out of the wreck to keep
her going — and then John M'Cormick, attracted by
the beauty of his present lady, proposed, and
her mother forced her to accept him, to save the
family."

Mrs Neville is not alive at present, is she ? "

No. She did not live long after the marriage
of her daughter. Poor lady ! I fear she is not over
happy."

Mrs Neville ? "

No, the daughter."
" M'Cormick, I should say, was a most uncongenial
man."

Most uncongenial," echoed the Bishop, who had
himself a penchant for odd words and absurd phrases.

Well, Anthony," said Carmody, " have yourself
and the Bishop got the lockjaw yet? Come, boys,"
addressing his companions, " who'll stand drinks
round at the ' Nest ? ' We may as well wish a

prosperous voyage to the Water Nyiwph, and wash
your tongues clean at the same time."

I don't mind if I stand," said Bendall, " although
there's a big crowd of you here — but hang
the expense ! It will all come out of the main
hatch."

Tom, you are a queer fellow," smiled Captain
Cummins.

There she goes ! " snorted Broaderss, pointing to
the Water Nymph. " Let's give Big Jack a parting
salute."

The skippers took off their hats, and waving them,
shouted " Safe voyage ! "

I wonder Mac isn't on the poop to return our
salute," said Cummins. " Well, I wish him no harm,
I'm sure, even though he has no manners."

I'll take odds he eats his Easter Sunday dinner
in Quebec," said Captain Bendall, " for I admire his
pluck. But up anchor, my bullies ! the sun is over
the mainland, and it's time to wet our whistles."

A S A I L O e'S wife.

HEN the skippers on the quay had
begun to discuss M'Cormick's affairs
domestic and maritime, Mrs M'Cormick
was seated alone in the cabin of the Water
Nyrti])h. A black cashmere dress enveloped her
slight, graceful figure. The broad collar of creamy
lace round her neck, and the lace cutis at her
wrists, challenged attention to the whiteness of her
throat and hands. A heavy mantle lay on the
seat alongside her, and her hat and gloves were
on the cabin table. She wore no jewellery — neither
bracelet, brooch, nor earrings — and on her slender
finger there was but one ring — the wedding ring.
As Mrs M'Cormick sat at the cabin table, one
hand supporting hei* chin, her thoughts flew back

to the time when she had been a little girl. The
tears sprang to her eyes as she called to mind
her father, whom she loved, and whose idol she
was — her reckless, handsome father, whose large
dark eyes and a little of whose spirit she inherited.
Her memories of her mother were not so
pleasurably sad, for her mother had always been
cold and selfish. How strange was the contrast
between the refinement of her father's home and
surroundings, and the coarseness of her present circumstances
! She was growing impatient at the
delay. Why had her husband, knowing how she
hated the ship, sent for her this morning ? And
the constant tramp, tramp of the heavy-booted
sailors overhead. How it irritated her !

The sound of footsteps descending the cabin
.stairs changed the current of her thoughts.

"Well, Susan," said Captain M'Cormick, seating
himself near his wife and picking up one of her
gloves. " I hope I haven't worn your patience out
altogether. There's always something wrong at
the last moment when a ship wants to get to sea.
Look here, Susan," he continued abruptly, after a
short awkward pause, " why can't you try to care a

little bit for me ? You needn't smile. I'm serious.
You know," he went on hurriedly, " I'd give my eyes
to feel you loved me. I own I'm not good enough
for you — anyone need only look at the pair of us
to tell that you're miles above me ; but — but, you
might show a little bit of affection towards me
sometimes. Don't look so frightened, child. Here
we are nearly seven years man and wife, and I
have never said half as much to you since the
week we were married."

M'Cormick spoke with a strange tremor in his
rough voice. His wife was still silent. She did
not know what to say. She felt confused and
dazed by her husband's unexpected words.

I know I am not what people call a good husband,"
continued M'Cormick, after another awkward
pause, " but can you blame me altogether ? " You
drove me wild with your coldness and your haughtiness.
And when I found you could not or would
not care for me, you made my wretched temper
forty thousand times worse than ever."

"11"

"Yes. I don't want to blame you. I suppose
you had no wish to do so. But can you blame

mine, I ask you again ? I haven't been a bad husband
in some respects, at any rate. I have never
stinted you about money. Have I ? "

He spoke fiercely, and the glove which he had
been twisting round his fingers was now torn
down the middle.

I never said you did, John," replied Mrs M'Cor-
mick, in a tremulous tone. Her husband's vehemence
frightened her, and she scarcely knew what she was
saying. " Indeed, indeed, you have been very kind
and considerate to me in many ways. But surely'*
she continued, recovering herself and looking up into
M'Cormick's face, " you did not expect to find a
love-sick wife in me. I told you," she continued
with the faintest of smiles, " I had no heart, and
you declared you were perfectly content to take
me without a heart."

I was a liar ! " exclaimed M'Cormick gruffly
" but there, don't let us say any more about
it. It's no use, no use." And leaning forward
on the cabin table, he buried his face in his
hands.

Susan M'Cormick did not consider she was untruthful
when she declared she was heartless, sofar,

at least, as her husband was concerned. She
believed her heart had died within her the day
she had written her last letter to Dick Dal ton. But
something in M'Cormick's voice touched her ; some
new chord seemed to vibrate within her. Had she
been just to the man with whom, however unwillingly,
she had cast her lot ? Was it right that
she should have made no effort to render him less
miserable ? for, almost for the first time, it struck
her how profoundly miserable her husband was.
What right had she, after all, to be cold to him
whom she had vowed, falsely vowed, no doubt, to
love, honour, and obey ? Had duty no claim upon
her ? Would it not have been far better to have
bowed to circumstances, and to have made up her
mind to be a dutiful wife, and at least show some
tokens of affectionate regard to the man beside her ?
Might not she herself — were she to look upon the
matter in a purely selfish light — have been infinitely
happier had she done so ? Was caste everything ?
Could not the human heart bridge over seemingly
impassable gulfs of social distinction ? She never
doubted that her intelligence was far superior to her
husband's, that her sympathies and tastes were widely

-different from his, but was this a justifiable plea for
her own conduct ?

These thoughts passed rapidly, and perhaps vaguely,
through her mind, and she almost felt her heart go
out to the rough, ungainly-looking man who sat
dose beside her with bowed head. She was on the
point of saying something tender to him.

Raising his head, and gazing sadly at his wife,
M'Cormick instinctively felt that some great unhoped-for
change was coming over her, and with a quick,
glad cry, he put his arm round her waist.

She freed herself instantly. She was not yet
prepared for love-making.

Come," said M'Cormick, with a trace of temper.
I have a right to place my arm round you if I like,
Am I so hateful that my touch disgusts you ? Oh !
I'm sick of it, sick of it ! " he exclaimed, standing up
and moving away from the table.

John, John," cried Mrs M'Cormick, affected by
the despairing tone of his voice, " don't be so down-hearted,
like a good fellow. Sit down again. Do sit
down. You are the nearest in the world to me now,
and although I did not marry you of my own freewill,
and although we have not got on very well

together, I would be very, very sorry to fret you.
If you will only believe me, I like you better than
anyone else in the world now. There, won't that
satisfy you ? "

She smiled, and her husband again seated himself
at her side. His compressed lips trembled visibly.
He silently stretched out his hand, and clasped his-wife's
hand.

For a few minutes there was silence in the cabin ;
husband and wife sat with bowed heads, each
anxious to break the silence, neither knowing how
to break it. At last Mrs M'Cormick, lifting her
head, spoke, —

You told me this morning that you were anxious
to see me on some business matter before you sailed."

Yes," he replied, a little wearily. " I wanted to
say a few words to you. I have been worried and
troubled a good deal ; perhaps that is some excuse
to offer for my surliness lately. The fact is," he
continued with more energy, " I have made my
will."

Made your will. Surely that could not have
caused you trouble."

It has — it does. It has troubled me a good deal

since I made it, because I haven't treated you fairly
I should at animate have consulted you, Susan ;
but I was out of sorts as usual. However, I promise
you it won't be my last will. I feel a changed man
since last night."

"And is that your only trouble now — I mean
about your will ? "

No. I have had all sorts of strange presentiments
latterly."

You indulging in presentiments ? About what,,
pray ?

Death ! "

Oh, nonsense, John I " cried his wife, with an
involuntary shudder ; " you never looked in better
health."

Health hasn't much to do with it. I have had
horrible dreams about drowning."

Probably the result of late suppers."

You till make fun of it, I see ; but you don't
know how strongly the impression has got hold of
me that I shan't make many more voyages."

Why make one more, then ? You told me long
ago you could easily afford to give up the sea."

And would you be contented," asked M'Cormick

eagerly, " if I did ? I am afraid you see a great deal
too much of me as it is."

Why do you think so badly of me ? " she asked,
with a mixture of tenderness and petulance. "By
all means give up the sea, if I am the only stumbling-block.
I have no fancy for it any more than yourself.
I hate the sea."

Ay ! " interrupted her husband, shaking his head ;
^' and, I fear, those who live by it."

You wrong me again. Stop ashore by all means.
Believe me, I am asking you to do so from my heart.
Let us go away somewhere, anywhere. I begin to
detest Sloughford. There, forgive my hastiness.
Sometimes memories of the old town make me sad
beyond measure. I don't hate it ; I love it. But
won't you give up the sea, John ? "

I will, I will. I would have done so long: aa^o,
but I feared you would run away from me, or do
something desperate," he smiled, " if I were to be
always at your side. Oh, Susan ! you don't know
what a load you have lifted from me. God bless
you, old girl. I'll look for a master for the Water
Nymph at once — I mean," he went on, after a
momentary pause, his thoughts rapidly changing

from his wife to his other love, his ship — " after
the year is out. I'm bent on making three North
American voyages this season."

"Why not get someone else to make them for you?"

Oh, that would never do, Susan," he laughed.
I must see the year out. I must make those
three voyages myself. I'm bent on it."

You are a strange man. A few moments ago
you were complaining of presentiments of drowning
I may tell you I don't attach the slightest importance
to presentiments of any sort — but if my
mind were troubled about the sea, and if I were
in your position, I'd very soon bid good-bye to the
best ship afloat."

Ah ! Susan, you were never cut out for a sailor's
wife." Mrs M'Cormick smiled faintly. "You don't
know the anxiety a sailor feels to make a good
finish. I'll give up the sea with a contented mind
if I can carry three cargoes of deals to Sloughford
this season, for that won't be a bad year's work, I
I can inform you, and it will help to make things
more comfortable for us. It will give the old craft
a good name, and she'll sell all the better. But
about the will, old girl."

What about it ? " She spoke a little sharply.
Somehow the term " old girl " grated harshly on
her ears, notwithstanding all her good resolutions.

Now that I come to think of it, I ought not
to say anything about it, for I promised Butler I
wouldn't. The will is in his charge. You must
not let anyone know I have told you of it. After
all, it is only so much waste-paper. Don't think I
am growing crazy yet, but my memory seems all
rickety lately. My real anxiety was to tell you
not to think I was going to act badly by you,
should you by any chance come to hear from
Butler that I had made a will without consulting
you. I'd have altered the whole thing this morning
if I had time to go ashore, for I mean you to
have everything, everything, Susan. I hate myself
God knows I do — for having ever said a harsh
word to you."

M'Cormick was about to lying his arms around
his wife's neck, when a loud voice from the cabin
stairs startled him.

"Just on the high water, skipper. Excuse me
for interrupting you, sir; but she'll be tending if
we don't get the anchors up at once."

All right, Mr Mate," cried M'Cormick.

Then standing up, he turned to his wife and said
hurriedly, —

We must get on deck, Susan."

Mrs M'Cormick rose, and her husband took up
her mantle.

Won't you forgive me ? " he asked, helping her
ivith her mantle. " That Manx man in the tug
will be swearing his head off if I don't make a
start at once. I'll write to you from Quebec.
Good-bye, my dearest old girl," he cried, seizing
her hands and kissing her. "At all events we
part good friends, don't we, if nothing more ? "

Something more, I hope," replied his wife. " I
feel now how badly I have behaved towards you
but let us say no more about it," pressing his
hand. " Let our actions in the future prove weare
in earnest."

Agreed ! " he cried joyously. " Now, good-bye
once more."

And, with a lighter heart than he had known
for many a day, the captain of the Water Nymph
led the way up the cabin staircase.

DISCUSSES THE AFFAIRS OF THE SHIPBEOKER's CLERK.

Arthur MADDEN was not a native of
Sloughford, and of his early history the
Sloughfordians knew little or nothing.
He had appeared one morning, about ten years prior
to the sailing of the Water Nymph, at his desk in
Butler's office. Nobody seemed to know where
or how the ship broker had picked up his new
clerk, and nobody cared to catechise Butler.

Madden's account of himself was simple. He had
been born and brought up in Swansea. His parents
had died while he was quite a child, and some
friends had sent him to school. When he had left
school he had been placed in the office of a Swansea
ship broker, and his coming to Sloughford was-due
to the appearance of an advertisement in a

Swansea newspaper. Butler had advertised for a
clerk who could speak French and Italian, and he
had applied for the situation.

He was still at the sunny side of thirty ; but he
was stout enough to be described as corpulent. His
hair was dark and closely cropped, and a long
black moustache covered his upper lip. The expression
of his features in repose was inanimate and
passionless ; but when he smiled his cold blue eye
grew bright and lit up his face. His lips as he
smiled would part widely, disclosing a set of white
even teeth. His nostrils would become visibly
distended, and the lines round his cheeks deeply
furrowed. Some reckoned him a good-looking
man ; others went so far as to term him positively
handsome.

Madden possessed a temper which it seemed impossible
to ruffle. He was loud of voice, boisterous
even ; and his laugh was contagious. He was popular
in Sloughford, yet he could not boast of having-many
friends. He had no respect for youth or age,
rich or poor ; and he would sacrifice anything for the
sake of a joke. He looked upon women in general

as a somewhat inferior class of beings. As a rule he
VOL. L F

did not seek the society of the softer sex, but he was
always ready and willing to make love ; and as he
was never in earnest, he usually succeeded in winning
the affections of those whom he singled out for
conquest. Love-making with him was a harmless
pastime, and it was useless to suggest to him that
there was a serious side to the matter. Among his
many conquests he could reckon that of Maggie
Ryan, the sister of his fellow-clerk, Michael Ryan.
Maggie, a pale, delicate girl, some eight or ten years
Madden's junior, looked upon herself as his future
wife, and the knowledge of this conviction of hers
was a source of serious mental trouble to the
young man. Maggie was the only girl of his acquaintance
whose hopes and disappointments ever
cost him a thought. He was well aware she was
deeply in love with him, and to the best of his
ability, he simulated a deep affection for her. He
felt her sensitive nature would receive an ugly shock
if he were to throw her over. " I may change my
mind one of these days," he sometimes mused, " and
become a marrying man. After all, Maggie is positively
a nice-looking girl. She is awfully in lo\'e
with me, and we might get on very well together. I

know I ought to be more candid with her ; but it
would quite upset her if I were to break away
from her altogether. Poor little girl 1 How stupid
women are ! " Usually his musings ended in a
laugh, as he conjured up pictures of himself
hampered with the cares of married life.

Michael Ryan, whose affection for his sister was
deep and unbounded, was pained beyond measure
at Madden's frivolous conduct with regard to Mao-fie,
but Michael was too mild-spirited to remonstrate
with his fellow-clerk. Madden played the part of
small tyrant over Ryan, not because his nature
was a tyrannical one, but he had an ever-present
desire to ward off anything that might worry him,
and he felt that Ryan would, if he only got the
opportunity, take him to task about his conduct
towards Maggie.

When he received Miss Walsh's message the
morning the Water Nymph sailed from Sloughford,
he was a little puzzled to imagine what the
landlady could require him for. At first he supposed
she wished him to aid her in recovering
some debt which one of Butler's many clients
sowed her ; but Miss Walsh had contrived to surround

her letter with such a halo of mystery that
he concluded it was something of a different nature
from commonplace debt - collecting which was at
the bottom of the invitation to the " Bold Dragoon."

He had no knowledge of the existence of M'Cor-
mick's will ; but when Miss Walsh told him that.,
in her opinion, the document was in Butler's possession,
Madden felt he was in duty bound to
declare he knew all about it, and that it would
be a comparatively easy matter for him to give
the landlady the information she required. Of
course, he assured her, he would take care that
everything would be kept strictly secret.

His intention was to play some practical joke
on Miss Walsh, but at the moment he could not
decide what the nature of the joke ought to be.
To assure her, after a decent interval had elapsed,
that she had been left everything by her half-brother,
and that the master of the Water Ny^nph
was a millionaire, would probably result in some
piece of extravagant conduct on the part of the
landlady, and in Madden 's eyes nature had destined
her exclusively as a subject for sound practical
joking.

After leaving the " Bold Dragoon " he walked
down the quay, and it suddenly occurred to him
that something profitable to himself might be made
out of M'Cormick's will. He readily believed it
was to be found in Butler's possession ; and if he
could gain any advantage by ascertaining how
M'Cormixik had devised his property, he saw no
reason why he should not gain that advantage,
and many reasons why he should. He would
endeavour to think out some plan for getting a
peep at the will, and afterwards he could makeup
his mind whether he would confine himself to
playing the fool with Miss Walsh, or not. If
Butler had the document, his niece might, possibly,
be able to give him some information about it.
If it lay in the office safe there could be little
difficulty in placing his hands upon it. Yes, he
would try to discover if Miss Cadogan knew
anything.

He was a constant visitor at the shipbroker's
house, and Helen always seem pleased to see him.

By George ! " he cried, forgetting for the moment
M'Cormick and everything connected with
him, " what an ass I have been ! There is one

of the handsomest girls in the town, and I have
never even thought of making love to her. She
is young, and I suppose the governor will leave
everything to her ; so I may call her wealthy.
She is lively, and always in good humour — in
fact, the one girl in Sloughford that would suit
me exactly. How stupid of me never to have
thought of her before. Well, I'll make up for
lost time this evening, if I only get a chance.
There's nothing like going straight to the point
with women."

He hastily turned up a side street, and in a
few minutes the hall door of Butler's hospitable
house had closed behind him. Madden, to his
intense delight, found Miss Cadogan alone in the
drawing-room.

"Your uncle is out, I am told," he said, shaking
hands with Butler's niece.

Yes," she said. " He has gone to see a friend
this evening. Won't you sit down ? "

Thank you."

"I don't think uncle will be long away. Have
you anything to say to him ? or can I do anything
for you ? "

Oh, nothing particular. The fact is, I thought
I would call, as I happened to be in Princes
Street."

We don't often see you here. Uncle is always
pleased when you do happen to call."

"It is awfully good of him. I wonder he can
bear the sight of me after office hours; but, Miss
Cadogan," lowering his voice, and imparting into
his words all the tenderness he could command,,
"much as it gratifies me to know that the governor
takes an interest in me, there is one other
thing you could, if you liked, tell me, which would
give me even greater pleasure."

M'Oormick's will had again vanished from his
thoughts.

What is that, Mr Madden ? " asked Helen, her
cheeks colouring.

"Well," stammered Madden, who now found he
was unable, easily as love-making came to him, to
plunge in medias res as rapidly as he could
desire. " Might I ask you a very pointed
question ? "

Really, I can't imagine what you mean by a
pointed question," said Helen, standing up.

Miss Cadogan, one moment ! I am sure you
will answer me — are yow pleased when I call —
I should say, are my visits here objectionable to
• you?"

Objectionable ! Why should they be ? What a
strange question to ask ? "

Perhaps I do not put the matter in the right
way. I mean — I mean — do you wish me to —
Oh, you must surely guess what I mean," he
cried, his face growing crimson from embargo



assent.

Really, I do not understand you, Mr Madden."
Miss Cadogan ! " cried Madden, rising, and
seizing her hand, which she quickly drew away,
"need I say I have a sincere, a most sincere regard
for you ? "

It struck him there was something absurd in
this observation, so he thought it would be best
now to make one supreme effort, and have the
worst of it over.

You know — you must know — that I love you."
"Are you endeavouring to amuse yourself at my
expense, Mr Madden ? " she asked indignantly.

Amuse myself ! ' he cried. " Is it likely ? It

is not a thing to treat as a joke. I am quite
in earnest, Miss Cadogan. I do wish you to believe
I am quite in earnest. Pray believe me.
It is a matter which will decide my future
happiness or misery."

Really ! I have always looked upon you as a
gentleman incapable of being serious about anything.
Please do not indulge in this sort of fun
in my presence, or you will compel me to speak to
my uncle about it."

Oh, it is too bad. It is positively too bad," he
cried. " Miss Cadogan, what do you take me for ?
Do you really and truly believe I would make a
jest of a matter so sacred ? " Then, with an air of
mingled resignation and despair, he murmured, — " I
a,m sorry if I have said anything to displease or
offend you. It was unwise, perhaps, to have spoken
so abruptly ; but the promptings of my heart carried
me away. I could not help myself. But I beg, I
pray, you will believe man was never more earnest
than I am. I had no right, I own, to take advantage
of your uncle's absence this evening ; but Mr
Butler has always been so kind and generous to me
that I thought he might possibly not object to my

paying my addresses to his niece. Good-bye, Miss
Cadogan," mournfully, " I can only regret you will
not believe in the sincerity of my declaration."

Helen could scarcely believe he was in earnest.
For years she had been accustomed to meet Madden,
but she had never for a moment dreamt of
regarding him in any other light than that of an
ordinary acquaintance. She had always been glad
to see him, for Madden's unfailing high spirits
always enlivened her uncle, and her uncle's happiness
occupied the first place in her thoughts. She
scarcely knew now whether she ought to be seriously
offended or whether she ought to be gratified,,
or whether she ought to insist upon regarding
Madden's declaration of love as a dangerous kind
of joke. The declaration had been so abrupt and
unexpected that she was confused, and knew not
what to think or what to say. However, she felt
it was best to put an end to the present embarrassment
at once. Extending her hand, she
said, —

Good-bye, Mr Madden. I am sorry if I have
really wounded your feelings."

Madden was now standing near the door, and

was quite as anxious as Helen to put an end to the
interview.

Good-bye, Miss Cadogan," taking her hand and
raising it to his lips. " Perhaps ere we meet again
you will have learned to think less badly of me."

She made no answer, but stood with her bent
head and crimson cheeks as he bowed and made a
hasty exit.

THE SKIPPER S' SYMPOSIUM.

HERE was a gathering of the clans in
the "Bold Dragoon." All the skippers
who had been watching the departure
of the Water Nyviph earlier in the day, with the
-exception of Captain Augustine Flynn, lounged into
the Nest while Madden was engaged in conversation
with Miss Walsh.

Every man, as he seated himself round the fireplace,
gripped his trousers above the bend of the
knee, and with a couple of jerks drew the end of
the trousers leg about three inches above his boots.
Captain Arkwright, who always wore shoes, exposed
four or five inches of sock. The unwritten
law evidently regulated the sock exposure at three
inches, but Captain Arkwright's words and deeds
were generally in inverse proportion to his stature.

For nearly an hour the skippers sat almost in
silence. All were drinking very slowly: some were
smoking ; and occasionally one of the mariners would
close his eyes and fall quickly asleep.

I wonder," snorted Captain Broaderss, about eight
o'clock, " Augyy Flynn hasn't turned up. He told
me he would join us this evening. Look here,
Bendall, you must let the man alone. I know it's-your
fault he fights so shy of us lately."

Bendall, who was leaning forward, his elbows on
his knees, and his hands supporting his leads sat
upright in his chair, and was about to reply to
Broaderss, when Carmody's shrill voice vibrated
through the room :

In the name of Heaven ! what's that you are
doing, Captain Sullivan ? "

Sullivan was holding a lump of salt over his glass
of grog, and was crushing the salt with the forefinger
and thumb of his left hand.

Ah ! " said Sullivan, his pale face brightening.
I'm glad you have taken notice of me. Salt inlarge
quantities, let me tell you, is the grand secret
of long life and health. I use it with everything
now — food and drink. When I wake up in the

night I swallow big spoonfuls of it. I know 'tis
a bit nasty until you get used to it. But there's
nothing good in the world that isn't nasty."

You must have the stomach of a horse and
the brains of an ass ! " exclaimed Carmody, with a
grimace.

Try a little of it, Pat," said Sullivan coaxingly.


Take it away man, take it away I " cried Car-body,
drawing back his chair.

Oh, you needn't be frightened," smiled Sullivan
" but," in a serious and impressive tone, " you
may believe me this is the grandest medicine in
the world," pocketing the lump of salt. " And I
can tell you more, boys," he continued ; " salt-water
baths — none of your common salt water, but thick,
heaps of salt, regular brine — them are the things
for health. I intend having a pickle bath every
morning ashore for the future."

You'll be petrifying yourself one of those fine
days," snorted Broaderss.

Or turning yourself into a pillar of salt," added
Bendall, with a chuckle.

Captain Flynn had entered the room as Bendall

spoke, and, without saluting the assembled mariners,
he exclaimed, —

Fie, fie, Tom ! How dare you give way to this
wretched blasphemy ? Don't you know well, Tom,
that you're talking out of Holy Writ when you
speak of pillars of salt."

"Oh dear, oh dear!" chuckled Bendall. " 'Tis a
pillar of the church you ought to be yourself. Sit
down, Captain Flynn, and make yourself comfortable.
What will you drink ? "

The Bishop placed his umbrella behind the half-open
door, drew off his heavy woollen gloves,
advanced to the fireplace, and murmured in a
reverential tone, —

I think I'll try a little gin and water — very
weak, Tom."

Have a lump of Sullivan's salt in it, will you ? "
asked Bendall, making a mental note as to the
position of the Bishop's umbrella. " A glass of
gin, if you please, Miss Julia," nodding to the landlady,
who entered the room after Flynn.

Yes, try a little of it in your grog," cried Sullivan,
taking the salt from his pocket and offering it
to the bewildered Flynn. "I have discovered — "

Oh, don't be for ever pestering us with your
crazes!" exclaimed Carmody angrily. "Now, I tell
you, if you say another word about salt in my
presence, I'll knock you down. Mark me now."

Gentlemen, gentlemen," murmured the Bishop
I'm fairly surprised at you. ' Let dogs,' as some
holy poet says, ' delight to bark and bite, but
grown men should be different quite.' — Thank you
Miss Julia," to the landlady, who now handed him
a glass. " So your good brother has gone from
amongst us to-day."

Yes, Captain Flynn. He ought to make a
quick run this time. The wind is still blowing
strong from the east."

o

"I wouldn't be surprised, though, if there was a
shift before long," put in Bendall, who was anxious
to find an excuse for getting nearer to Flynn's
umbrella. "I wonder how is the glass," rising
and approaching the barometer, of which he seemed
to make an intent and prolonged study.

"By the way. Miss Julia," said the Bishop,,
"wasn't that young Mr Madden I saw leaving the
house just as I was coming in ? "

Yes," stammered the landlady. " He was looking

for the skipper of that Italian barque lying
near the bridge. He's a nice young gentleman —
I mean Mr Madden."

Upstart," snorted Broaderss.

Puppy," snarled Carmody.

Fie, fie ! gentlemen," said the Bishop, waving-his
hand. " You should never speak badly of the
absent when they're not present. Oh, Miss Julia
I knew there was something I had to say to
you. I observed my mate at the counter outside.
That man is a shocking ruffian when he drinks
too much. Oblige me by giving him nothing
stronger than ginger wine this evening ; for he
has a heavy family depending on him, a very
heavy family, Miss Julia; and I want him to beat
his work early in the morning. What a curse
drink is ! " he sighed, taking a mouthful of his gin.

"All right. Captain Flynn. I'll look after him
and see that he doesn't get intoxicated here at
any rate."

It's your turn to stand now, Captain Augy,""
snorted Broaderss. " All our glasses are running dry."

"Well, gentlemen, name your drinks individually

to Miss Julia."

VOL. I. G

Same again ! " chorused all the skippers, except
Arkwright, who was fast asleep ; and the landlady
left the room.

Charming creature ! " smiled Cummins, who had
been twirling his thumbs and staring with a vacant
stare into the fire until the cry of " Same
again," in which he had automatically joined,
aroused him.

Getting pretty well up in years now," snorted
Broaderss.

Ah ! if she would only try large quantities of
salt ! " sighed Sullivan.

Oh, I wasn't thinking of Miss Julia," explained
the now wide-awake Cummins. " I was thinking
of John M'Cormick's wife."

Ton my song, Martin Cummins, you're a queer
sh," laughed Bendall, who had by this time succeeded
in concealing under his long pilot-cloth
overcoat the Bishop's umbrella, and stood leaning
against the corner of the mantelpiece. " What's
coming over you at all ? "

Mind your own business, Bendall ! " exclaimed
Cummins angrily.

Did you begin to load yet, Tom ? " asked Flynn,

circling high words, and therefore anxious to divert
the current of the conversation.

No, skipper. We're not out of the doctor's hands
jet ; and I fear we'll have to rip the decks out of
her after all."

Here Miss Walsh entered the Nest with a tray,
and handed the glasses round to the skippers.

Mind what I told you about my mate, Miss
Julia. I hope you're watching him, for he's a
shocking blackguard when he gets too much drink
aboard."

I'm looking after him. Captain Flynn," smiled
Miss Walsh, leaving the room.

Now, look here, Bendall," cried Cummins, who
had been gradually making up his mind to put a
stop to Bendall's impertinence, " let me tell you
once for all, sir, that I won't have you trying to
poke your fun at me. Remember who you are,
-and who I am, sir. You're a fellow — I say it before
all the gentlemen here," he went on rapidly
and excitedly — " who hasn't got a certificate ; and
I have one, sir. If anybody doubts my word, here
it is," fumbling in his breast-pocket and producing
a dirty, greasy parchment. " I'm a captain, sir, a

captain — a title you have no right to, Tom Bend-all,
let me tell you."

The majority of coasting skippers o£ a past generation
were uncertified master - mariners ; and those
who possessed either a certificate of competency ora
certificate of service were mightily vain of the
possession, many of them fully believing they had
as much right, legally and morally, to the title
of captain as an officer wearing Her Majesty's
uniform,

Bendall laughed, and taking off his hat made a low
bow to Cummins. The action jerked the handle of
Flynn's umbrella through the breast of Captain
Tom's coat. He hastily tried to cover the handle,
but the Bishop caught a glimpse of his beloved
crozier," and, jumping to his feet, he tore open
Bendall's coat, and pulled the umbrella forth from
its hiding-place. All the skippers burst forth into
noisy laughter, caused partly by Bendall's discomfiture
and partly by the exhibition of Flynn's wrath.
Even the slumbering Arkwright bobbed his head
up and down and smiled inanely in his sleep.

It's a shame, Tom ; a downright, dirty shame,"
fumed the Bishop. " A man might as well be

preaching sermons to milestones as trying to knock
'Common sense and common decency into your empty
brains."

I couldn't help it, neighbour. Indeed I couldn't,"
murmured Bendall apologetically, but scarcely able
to smother a laugh. " Ton my song, I meant no
harm. I wish to Heaven, Captain Augyy, you'd burn
the crozier, and take the temptation out of my
road."

The Bishop sat down and turned his back towards
Bendall, and tapping his teeth with this
finger-nails, exclaimed, —

'Tis the height of ignorance — the height of ignorance.
There's neither sense nor meaning in your
empty brains, Captain Bendall."

Tom, you're a queer fellow," chuckled Cummins,
determined now to apologise in a roundabout fashion
for the insult he had a short time previously offered
Bendall.

Well, boys," said Bendall, " I am sorry for my
bad behaviour. And I can tell you all that there
isn't a man coming into this port, or into any other
port, for the matter of that, I have a greater regard
for than Augyy Flynn."

"You're a queer fellow, Tom," again chuckled Cummins,
scarcely knowing how to show he was sorry
for his conduct, while sustaining at the same time
the superiority of his position. " I hope you bear
me no ill-will, Tom, on account of my remarks a
short time ago. There's not a man in the room,
let me tell you, barring myself and Augyy Flynn,
that's got a certificate any more than yourself; but
for all that I hope I didn't hurt your feelings, Tom?"

Not in the least," said Bendall. " When I putas
many ships ashore as you have put, maybe I'll be
looking to the Board of Trade myself for a ticket."

"I consider you have a great deal of impudence,.
Bendall, to attempt to address me in that fashion,"
snarled Cummins. " But," with a sneer, " what
can you expect from a man who hasn't a certificate
? "

Miss Julia," cried Bendall to the landlady, who
had entered the room in response to a summons
from the bell, " we'll all have our glasses filled
again — don't mind Captain Arkwright's as he isn't
done snoring yet. And, Miss Julia, you might put
a taste of ginger into Captain Cummins' grog. He
looks as if he wanted something to warm him.

poor fellow ! Look how pale he is ! I'm sure the
man is love-sick."

Tom, you're a queer fellow," laughed Cummins.
Isn't he, my dear ? " to the landlady.

Captain Cummins," said Miss Walsh, " I do
wish you would keep your proper distance, and
address me by my proper name ; " and the landlady
flounced out of the room.

'' Well, well," muttered Cummins, " the contrariness
of females is something wonderful. That
woman is becoming as high and mighty as Mrs
M'Cormick herself. Ah ! " his mouth broadening
with a grin, "all that tossing of the head is put
on just because there's a lot of you boys here.
When I come in by myself there's a lump of difference
in Miss Julia's manners, I can tell you. Now
it was only the other day — "

Here he suddenly stopped as Miss Walsh entered
the room with the liquor. She scowled at Cummins,
and retired to the shop without addressing a word
to any of the skippers.

Miss Julia is quite right," said Bendall. " I
don't think a certified man ought to be insinuating
that he's thinking of getting a third wife before

Number two is a twelvemonth under the sod.
How much, now, if it is a fair question, do the
undertakers allow you ofi* the regulation charges,
Captain Cummins, or is the work done by contract
for you ? "

Tom, you're a queer fellow," laughed Cummins,
who was rather vain of having outlived two helpmates.


I wish you had more ballast in you, Tom,"
said the Bishop, turning round. He had now recovered
from his fit of ill-humour. " You mean
well, I'm sure ; but life is too serious a matter for
this constant frivolity. You can't expect to live
for ever in this vale of tears — "

Try large quantities of salt," put in Sullivan,
eagerly.

So help me ! " cried Carmody, breaking off
abruptly a conversation with Broaderss, " I'll not
stand your infernal nonsense any longer, skipper
Sullivan. No sooner are you done pestering us
with one craze than you start another. Last voyage
you nearly drove me mad with some rubbish
about lucifer matches. Have done now : do you
mind me ? "

Oh ! ho ; ho ! " yawned Arkwright, awaking
from slumber and stretching out his arms. " Why,
bless me ! " he cried, rubbing his eyes, " I must
have been ingratiating myself with a prolonged
repose."

Oh, don't mention it," drawled Bendall.

Why, in Heaven's name, can't you talk plain ? "
asked Carmody.

Talk plain," laughed Arkwright, a contemptuous,
dignified laugh. "I flatter myself, sir, my discourse
is homely, scholarly, and gentlemanly. Whenjuy
late lamented parent on the male side was buildings"


Castles in the air. What a pity you didn't
stick to carrying a hod yourself ! "

"Sir," said Arkwright, with asperity, "your language
is ignorant and unseemly. You seem constantly
oscillating between ignorance and unseemliness,
and verging on downright insolence."

Why didn't they send you into Parliament ?
'Tis a shocking loss to the country."

I flatter myself I should not disgrace the first
assemblage of European gentlemen," smiled Arkwright,
twirling his thumbs.

Well, don't be pestering us with your dictionary
words, anyhow. I can tell you it isn't manners tone
trying to choke yourself with jaw breakers every
time you open your mouth."

Oh, gentlemen, gentlemen," expostulated the
Bishop, " let us change the subject ; for it seems
to me that some of you are slowly but surely
drifting into abusive language — and it ill becomes
you, Captain Carmody, to be constantly hurting
the feelings of your neighbours. Fie, fie ! Pat."

I quite agree with you, Captain Augyy," said
Bendall. "Let us talk of something more pleasant
than Sullivan's salt and Ark Wright's book-learning.
There's my friend Cummins there, thinking
to himself as hard as he can. Now, I'll take my
davy he's wondering which of his numerous lady
friends will be the next Mrs Cummins. Am I
right, skipper ? "

Tom, you're a queer fellow. There's no use
at all in trying to be vexed with you. Put it
there, Tom."

And Cummins and Bendall shook hands warmly.

I wonder," snorted Broaderss, " did big Mac get
out of the harbour on the ebb ? "

Of course he did!" exclaimed Carmody. " What's
to hinder him, with a tug boat ahead of him to-drag
him out ? "

What a charming example of femininity his goodwife
is ! " said Arkwright. " Superior personage I
What an expensive education she must have been
inculcated with ! "

Ay ! boarding - school education," snarled Car-body,
as if some one had offered him a personal
insult. " Boarding schools, indeed ! where they
teach girls to scratch the strings of a harp. and
sew alphabets on canvas. 'Twould be fitter for
them to show them how to darn a man's socks and
sew buttons on his shirt, I can tell you."

You're a vulgar, unintellectual specimen of
humanity," said Arkwright contemptuously. .

Ah, don't be bothering us, man, with your
cackling ! I'm sick and tired, I am, of listening to-your
noise."

If you're sick, skipper," began Sullivan, " try
large—"

I'll choke you with your own salt if you say
another word ! " cried Carmody, his eyes blazing
with fire.

Oh dear ! oh dear ! " laughed Bendall. " You're
a nice agreeable lot of companions. You're after
disgusting our friend the Bishop altogether."

You never said a truer word, Tom. It's quite
disgraceful to hear grown men squabbling in a
Christian land. I'm ashamed of you, Pat. We all
have our little failings; and I'd be the last man to
fling the stone ; but your temper, Captain Carmody,
is something fulsome."

For half the complement of insulting observations
you have addressed to me, sir," said Arkwright,
gaining courage at the Bishop's speech,
you would, in some countries, find yourself incarcerated
within the precincts of a miserable dungeon,
where — "

Oh dear ! oh dear ! " interrupted Bendall ; " your
remarks, skipper Arkwright, are heavy enough to
sink a lifeboat. Take a sip out of your grog before
you choke yourself right out."

For several minutes there was silence in the Nest.
The silence was broken by the Bishop.

Oh ! ho ! ho ! " he yawned, taking out his watch
and replacing it in his fob ; " it's time to be going,
gentlemen."

The mariners all stretched out their arms and
yawned vigorously. Then each man stooped and
drew down the legs of his trousers.

I'm going your way, Jim," said Carmody to
Sullivan.

Both men rose, and yawning again, stamped
noisily on the floor.

Give us a hornpipe before you go, Pat," said
the Bishop.

Ah, not to-night," smiled Carmody, stamping
again. " I'm too still" in the joints. Some other
time."

"Well, we'll excuse you to-night, Pat, as it is sa
late," said the Bishop, rising ; " but I'll stand no
nonsense next time. Come along, Martin," tapping-cummins
on the shoulder. " We have no home
but our ships, so let us bear one another company
down the quay."

All the skippers had now risen from their
seats.

Captain Bendall," said Arkwright, " our homes
are located in the same direction, and yours, too,.
Captain Broaderss."

Don't forget your umbrella," cried Bendall, as

the Bishop and Cummins were about to leave
the room.

Thank you for the reminder, Tom ; I have it
in my hand."

And the symposium at the Nest was broken up.

AFTER LONG YEARS.

RS M'CORMICK was in an unusually
excitable mood the morning after the
departure of the Water Nymph. The
previous evening she had been dull and depressed
beyond measure, and had spent a restless, sleepless
nio'ht. Her husband's words and manner had left
a strong impression upon her. She felt her conduct
towards M'Cormick during their seven years
of married life had been unjust and cruel, and she
was full of o'ood resolutions for the future. She
would endeavour to begin life anew — to forget the
past and everything belonging to it. She hoped,
she prayed they would go far away from Slough-ford
— the change of scene would be certain to effect
a change in herself.

But with the morning came the reaction.

After breakfast she sat at the window of the ,
which overlooked the river, and strup'P-le
as she might with herself, she could not shut out
memories of many years ago. With tears coursing
slowly down her cheeks she remained for a long'
time — she knew not how long — gazing at the ships
and barges sailing up with the tide. Then, as she
rose from her chair, her eyes caught the outline of
the old wooden bridge, and with a smothered sob
she turned away her head and began to pace up
and down the room, her hands clasped tightly in
front of her.

My God, my God ! " she cried, " I thought I had
lived it down. I wonder if I shall ever see him
again, — ever know if he has forgiven me. What
have I done that all my life should be spoiled, all
the sunshine and happiness taken out of it ? "

She stopped abruptly as she passed the window,,
and stood staring in the direction of the bridge.

Oh ! I am a fool — I am worse. It is sinful
as well as silly to give way to such thoughts.
She sank into a seat, a sad smile curving her
mouth. "I wonder what would poor John say if

he were only to see me playing tragedy just now
and know what my thoughts were. I must not
allow myself to think of the past ever again. I
must, I will, shut my eyes to it. I have been too
much alone latterly. I suppose that is why I am
so low-spirited. I wonder Helen has not come over
to see me. I must write to her."

She got up and went through the half - open
folding-doors into the adjoining room. This room
overlooked the garden, and in it Mrs M'Cormick
usually spent the better part of the day. But
now the river had a fascination for her, and as if
she were performing some guilty deed she brought
a small writing-desk stealthily from the inner
room and placed it on a table near the window.

As she was about to sit down, the sound of
footsteps crunching the gravel outside reached her
ears. Looking through the curtains, she stood fora
moment breathless, her eyes almost bursting
from their sockets, and her face pale as a winding-sheet.
Then the blood rushed quickly to her
cheeks, and with a low cry — half sob, half moan —
she started back, pressing her palms to her throbbing
temples.

VOL. L H

Ere she had time to regain self-possession, her
visitor was announced, and stood in the room close
to her.

She turned round, her cheeks still scarlet, her
heart throbbing violently, and stretched out her hand
in silence.

Her visitor grasped the extended hand, and said
in a grave, quiet tone, —

You are astonished to see me again. I do not
wonder. Believe me, I never meant to meet you,
but fate — I suppose I must call it fate — sent me
here."

Sit down, won't you ? " said Mrs M'Cormick,
motioning him to a chair near the fireplace : her
visitor's coldness put her almost at her ease. " You
won't mind my finishing this note, I hope. I amin
a hurry to send it to the post."

Without waiting for any reply, she took up her
pen and began to write. If her visitor had watched
her closely, he could see that her fingers trembled
so violently that she could scarcely hold the
pen.

After a few minutes, during which time the pulsing
of her heart had gradually ceased to be a serious

trouble to her, she folded the note and placed it in
an envelope. Then she asked her visitor to ring
the bell. A ruddy-checked, healthy-looking young
woman entered the room. Mrs M'Cormick closed the
desk, and handed the note to a young woman, her
maid. She was quite at ease now ; quite at ease.

He doesn't care in the least for me. He has been
wiser than I. He has lived it down. Thank God ! "

Well, Mr Dalton," she began,—

Don't, please," he interrupted, with a trace of
bitterness. " It almost makes me laugh to hear you
call me Mr Dalton ; and " — his voice growing more
gentle — " it sounds too brutally cold after all these
years. You never called me so in all your life
before."

But everything has altered very much since I
saw you last."

Yes," he said, sadly and slowly. " I need scarcely
be reminded of that."

"I wonder you recognised me. People tell me I
have altered considerably during the past five or six
years. Sometimes when I look in the glass I fancy
I am quite forty — and I'm not quite forty yet," she
-added, with a feeble attempt at a smile.

]N o. You will be only twenty-seven next May —
the fifth o£ May, is it not ? "

What a memory you have ! "

Yes," quite softly. " A long memory for some
things, Susie."

Don't ; for God's sake don't call me that !" she
gasped, involuntarily pressing her fingers to her
eyes. " No one has ever called me Susie since a
certain night long ago — when — when — God ! help
me, I cannot bear it all."

Here Mrs M'Cormick found that she could no
longer check her sobs, and rising hastily she went
to the window, and with tear-blinded eyes pressed
her cheeks to the cool window panes. After a few
moments she came back to her chair.

Dalton had in the meantime sat with folded arms,,
staring moodily into the fire which flickered in the
small fire-grate.

I am quite upset to-day," she said, breaking the
silence ; " I have a bad headache, and my nerves are
all unstrung. I don't know what ails me. You
must not mind me. I shall be all right presently.
Tell me all about yourself. What have you been
doing ? What brings you to Sloughford ? "

To tell you all about myself for the past seven
•or eight years — it will be eight years next August
since I saw you last — would be tiresome and uninteresting,
I fear, Mrs M'Cormick."

You may call me by my Christian name if you
like," she interrupted. " It will sound less strange
in my ears —but," with a little gasp, " you must never
do so again after to-day. I think I can promise you
I won't feel uninterested in your story."

Thank you. I haven't very much to tell, indeed ;
but if you are sure I shan't bore you, I'll give^you
a very brief account of myself since I saw you last.
May I go on ? "

Yes. I suppose you are married ? "

She would have given worlds to recall the words
as she looked at his face ; but she could not have
restrained herself. She was burning with curiosity
to know if he had entirely forgotten her, — if he had
formed new ties more binding than the old ones.

Married ! " he said bitterly. " Didn't I tell you
I had a long memory ? Why should I marry ? You
are all alike. You love your ease ; you would do
Anything rather than endure a little worry — a little
trouble. None of you know what love really means*

Love — what do you know of love, may I ask ? Oh I
I am sick of the word. I hate you all ; I despise you
all. You broke my heart, woman ! "

He turned and looked at her fiercely. He had
determined to be cool and collected all through the
interview ; but now he found he had lost control
over himself. He was unable to keep back the tears
which welled into his eyes.

Oh, Susie, Susie ! " he cried piteously. " Why
could you not have waited for me ? I would have
worked for you, slaved for you, waited for you half
a lifetime. " What am 1 saying ? " he moaned, rising
from his chair and pacing up and down the room,.
as Mrs M'Cormick had paced it a short time before.
I am mad ; I thought I had forgotten you — or hated
you."

Fortunately for Mrs M'Cormick, she was struck by
the fact that his actions now resembled hers before
she had taken her writing-desk from the inner
room ; and this saved her from breaking down
utterly. She set herself thinking how curious it
was that in such a short space of time a man who
she thought had ceased to remember her existence,
and who, for aught she knew to the contrary, was.

at the other end of the world, or dead, should almost
imitate her words — yes, even her very actions. Then
she fancied, or rather tried to fancy, he was
burlesquing her movements. It was so funny.
Yes, that was exactly the way she had stumbled
against a chair. He stopped and looked out of the
window. She had done the same. Could anything
be more amusing ? — and she burst into a hysterical
fit of laughter.

He turned round, and laughed too — a strange
hollow laugh, that sounded like mockery in her
ears. Then he found she was crying bitterly.

Susie, Susie," he said, approaching her, going
down on one knee, and clasping her hand, " what
is it ? What have I said ? I scarcely know, myself.
Do forget my roughness — my pettishness. I could
not help it. Do forgive me ! "

She took her hand away, and motioned him to
sit down. In silence he resumed his seat, and after
a pause Mrs M'Cormick spoke, —

We have both been very foolish just now, I
fear. Please forget it all for ever. Promise me
you will."

Then you are not vexed with me ? "

No ; but promise me you will forget all that
has just happened. " I don't knew what ails me
this morning. I feel quite upset. Don't think I am
always such a stupid person. You were going to tell
me about yourself, when something interrupted you."

You know a little of my story already. After I
made up my mind to try what luck the sea would
bring me, I went a long voyage, and on my return
to Liverpool I got your last letter. I did not storm
or rage at the awful news it told me, but I think
it very nearly drove me mad. However, I'm not
going to dwell upon that portion of the past. I
determined to stick to the sea."

How strange you should have gone to the sea !
I hate the sea."

I don't. I love it. After some six years of
knocking about, I passed for master in the foreign
trade. I had little difficulty in getting a ship out of
Liverpool, owing to my father's connection there
long ago. I entered Sloughford harbour yesterday
in a barque of two thousand tons. You should just
see my ship. All Sloughford was out this morning
to look at her. They say she is the largest ship
that ever came up to the quays."

"You seem quite enthusiastic about your profession."


I am enthusiastic about it. I love my ship. She
is a beauty. She is my sweetheart and wife, and
there is no danger she will throw me over, so long
AS I remain faithful to her."

"You are unkind, Dick. I did not throw you
over — if that is what you mean."

She bit her lip as she said this. The words had
been uttered without premeditation.

Oh no ! Of course you didn't. You simply did
what pleased you best. I do not blame you, I assure
you. No doubt you had almost forgotten the fact
of my existence."

He was again excited, and had apparently forgotten
his resolution and his promises.

You should not talk to me like that, nor should I
have said to you half the things I have said. You
must not attempt to refer to the past again."

She spoke hurriedly and sharply, her cheeks
glowing, and her eyes dilated and wild looking.

Forgive me ! I forgot myself. I know I have
no right to come here and whine. I am ashamed of
myself. I fancied I had no place in your memory.

Why should I have any ; or why should you be-annoyed
when I say so ? "

She was softened by his quiet tone, in which she
could trace a cry of despair.

You are cruel," she murmured. " You know it
broke my heart, too. Every word of my last letter
to you was true, bitterly true — but is it right we
should speak to one another thus ? Let us bury the
past for ever."

I cannot truthfully promise you that. Believe
me, though, I did not mean to break down as I
have done — I am disgusted with my weakness
my unmanliness. But memories crowded in upon
me so thick — "

You must banish these memories. You must
promise me you will never in any way allude to
what has passed between us now or long ago. If
you do not promise, I swear I shall never open my
lips to you again. Do you realise my position and
yours ? "

I promise. But you need not think I intend to
persecute you with reproaches. Perhaps we may
never meet again after to-day."

After a pause.

How did you find me out ? Did Mr Butler
give you my address ? "

No — but how stupid of me ! I have ahiiost lost
sight of the object of my visit here. When my
ship was coming into the harbour yesterday, wee
met a barque sailing out — the Water Nymph —
your husband's ship."

Yes, my husband's ship. Surely my husband
did not send you here ? "

Strangely enough, he did — with a message."

You astonish me. I should have thought you
would be about the last person in the world he
would have selected to convey a message to me."

Why ? " with a smile.

She was vexed for having spoken, and for the
evident assumption on Dalton's part that her husband
still had cause to remember that Dalton and
she had once been sweethearts.

You are wrong," she said scornfully. " You need
not think he has ever had cause to remember — anything.
But I know he always disliked you, because
you were what he calls a fine gentleman."

Dalton was nettled by the answer, and bit his lip
at the words " fine gentleman."

I am a line gentleman no longer," he said. " I
am only a master-mariner — just a trifle better thana
common sailor."

You don't look a bit like one, at any rate'' she
smiled. " No one alive would take you for a sailor."

I don't know whether you intend to be complimentary
or the reverse — "

Pray do not let us squabble," she cried impatiently.
" I was not thinking of compliments or
insults. Please tell me about the message from
my husband."

He sent you this," taking a letter from the
breast-pocket of his coat, and handing the letter
to Mrs M'Cormick. " He did not know that I
would be the bearer of the note," he explained.
^' He left it with the master of the pilot-cutter, and
told him to give it to the captain of the first ship
entering the harbour, and to ask that captain to
deliver the letter with his own hands. So now
you know why it is that I have come here this
morning. Otherwise I should never have crossed
your threshold."

I expect you were surprised when you read the
address on the envelope. How strange ! " dreamily.

' Surprised ' is scarcely a strong enough word.
But," rising, " I have paid you an unconscionably
long visit. My ship will be a month here discharging.
Shall I see you before I sail ? " forgetful
once more of his resolutions never to look again at
the woman who had jilted him.

I don't know. You must never see me alone
again. But you know Helen Cadogan, do you not ? "

Butler's niece ? Yes, I think I remember her.
She was at school somewhere when I left Slough-ford.
Butler will introduce me to her if she has
forgotten me. He is doing the business of my ship
here, of course."

We visit one another occasionally. If she and
her uncle accompany you, I don't think I would
have any objection to seeing you."

You are very kind." There was a touch of
sarcasm in his voice. Her coldness chilled him.
Good-bye," he said, holding out his hand.

And then as he looked at her and reflected it was
the last time they might meet alone again, and that
their paths in this world lay wider apart than ever,
a strange longing to kiss her lips, to hold her in
his arms once more, even were it only for an instant.

seized him. Instinctively Mrs M'Cormick divined
his thoughts. Rising, she rang a small handbill
which lay on the table, and then opening the door
of the sitting-room smiled, —

Don't mind my turning you out so abruptly. 1
had no notion it was so late ; and I have a visit to
pay in the neighbourhood this afternoon."

He seized her hand and raising it to his lips,
cried, —

Susie — for the last time, Susie — good-bye ! "

Good-bye," she murmured, pressing his hand.
Good-bye."

When the door closed after him she burst into a
passionate fit of weeping.

I must never see him again. Never, never.
May God pity me and forgive me — for I love him
still 1 I love him, God help me ! "

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCES ONE OF THE SMARTEST CRAFTS AFLOAT,
AND ONE OF THE SMARTEST OF SKIPPERS.

BOUT three weeks after the Water
Nymph sailed from Sloughford, a
strange brigantine was observed making
for the entrance of that harbour, and the
pilot-cutter swiftly bore down upon her and put
a man in charge.

"Twelve days from St John's, Newfoundland,
captain ! Why, a steamboat might with reason be
proud of a passage like that. 'Tis a clipper she
is, an' no mistake ! "

Right, sonny ! Guess you'll find there ain't

many smarter crafts afloat than the Greenwich, of
St John, New Brunswick, nor many smarter
men than Angus K Nixon — that's me, pilot."

The first speaker was the sea pilot who had
just been hoisted on board the Greenback, and
the second speaker was the master of that rakish-looking
craft.

Angus K Nixon might indeed be justly proud
of his vessel, and justly elated at having made
such a rapid passage across the Atlantic, for it
would not be easy to find a neater-looking trading
brigantine ; and a twelve days' sail from St
John's, Newfoundland, to the south coast of Ireland
was, as Captain Nixon woidd term it,,
doing it pretty tidy," even with the assistance
of strong westerly winds and a buoyant cargo —
oil in casks and dried cod-fish.

Nixon was five feet ten inches in height, and
thirty - four years of age. He had high cheekbones,
lantern jaws, a straight nose of a purple
hue, a wide mouth, a long upper - lip, restless-grey
eyes, and a narrow forehead. His raven
black hair was allowed to wander below his
coat collar, and was carefully oiled. He was clean

shaven, and his chin rivalled his nose in the
depth of its purple tint.

Nixon had been taught the business of seamanship
in the worst school afloat. From the age
of twelve until, in the natural course of things,
he left the forecastle to become one of the
after guard," he had been accustomed to the
roughest usage, the most unseaworthy vessels, and
the companionship of the most degraded and reckless
class of seamen. He had been badly fed,
badly paid, and worked like a galley slave ; soit
was not a matter for wonder that noble sentiments,
noble aspirations, and noble deeds had
no place in the mechanism of Angus R. Nixon.
Still he seemed to thrive. " Only a copper-fastened
constitution, bolted through and through,
could have comet right straight along as I have
comet," he would often remark.

As a matter of course, he made a most tyrannical
mate, and was cordially detested by the
forecastle hands. It must not be supposed he was
more tyrannical than hundreds of other mates —
very likely he was not nearly so overbearing as

many — but certainly he was held in greater de-vol.
I. I

gestation by sailors than the bullies of "bully
mates." The principal cause of the hatred arose
from the fact that Angus was a cheat and a
coward. Few sailors would have thought very
badly of him for being a bit of a cheat, perhaps
; fewer still would have blamed him for
being a tyrant ; but no sailor has any affection
or respect for a combination of cheat and coward.

It seemed as if Nixon lived chiefly for the
pleasure of cheating. His essays in this line
too, were, it must be confessed, of the meanest
kind. He was too cowardly to be a cheat of
dangerous proportions. It would aflbrd him greater
delight to earn a penny dishonestly than to earn
a pound honestly ; and he would at any time
prefer to throw away a pound than to allow
any one to diddle him out of a penny.

He got into trouble afloat and ashore times without
number ; but as his attempts at obtaining money
or advantages dishonestly were always conducted on
so diminutive a scale, and he was such a cringing
coward whenever he was found out, few had ever
thought to " make an example " of him.

About eight months before the arrival of the Greenback

in Sloughford harbour, Nixon was serving as
first mate on board a North American timber trader,
and this ship was fortunate enough in mid-atlantic
to fall in with a derelict barque laden with cotton.
It was fine weather, and the crew of the timber
trader succeeded in bringing their prize, which had
evidently been abandoned too early, safe into port.
Nixon's portion of the salvage was sufficient to
supply him with the purchase-money of a brigantine,
called the Cordelia, carrying about two hundred
and twenty tons, and also enabled him to
spend a large sum of money on re-decking, refastening,
and generally overhauling the brigantine.

He did not like the name of his purchase ; he
could not imagine what Cordelia meant ; and he
did not care to run the risk of being laughed at
for his ignorance. He consulted several learned
nautical men, and after having made them too
jolly to be captious, he asked them what a Cordelia
was.

Most of them shook their heads. One of them
thought it was a foreign name for a small rope ;
another fancied it was the name of a chain of
mountains ; another was almost certain it was an

Italian word for ginger wine. The most learned of
the learned mariners, a grave and reverend signior
of sixty, asked for time to hunt up the word.

Without committing myself, I reckon it's a word
for a sort of flower ; but I have some dictionaries
and things in my state-room, Nixon," said he, " and
you just hold on till tomorrow, and I'll tell you
what it means right straight away."

The old man met Nixon the next day with a
beaming countenance.

I've discovered the secret, my boy. I've wormed
it out," he cried. " There ain't nothing like books
after all when a man's in a quandary. And what
do you think, my boy : they've gone and spelt the
dashed name wrong. Blest if they ain't ! Such
ignorance, when a man has only to look a thing
up ! C-o-r-d-e-l-i-e-r — that's how to spell it. It's a
nickname for a lot of old monks. That's what it is."

Old monks ! " ejaculated Nixon scornfully. " I'll
have none of their sort on the stern of my ship,
you bet. Now, skipper, tell me what in your
opinion's the most beautiful thing in water ? "

Greenbacks, sonny. Greenbacks," replied the
maritime bookworm, who hailed from Boston city.

Perhaps you're right," drawled Nixon. " Perhaps
you ain't. For my part, I prefers a plain, straight
up and down British sovereign ; but as you've said
^ Greenbacks,' and as you've warned me off those
cussed monks, as ain't Rush, fowl, or good red
herring, why I'll get my craft rechristened The
Greenback, for I calculate she'll be about the next
most beautiful thing in water when I takes her
out of dry dock."

Although he spoke jauntily, and with apparent
cheerfulness, about the purchase of the brigantine,
still a canker-worm was srnawincr at Nixon's heart.
It was ever present to his mind that he had obtained
the salvage money through no special skill
of his own, — that his meeting with the derelict
ship was merely a piece of good luck which might
have fallen to the least wide-awake of mariners.
This wounded his sense of vanity ; for, considering
that, according to his own estimate, he was the
most cunning tar who ever boxed a compass, it
was rather rough upon him that he had never
been able to save money by his cunning. And
the weakest point in Nixon's mental armour was
his vanity. He was vain of everything connected

with hiiuselt' — vain of his conversational powers
vain of his adroitness, vain even of his personal
appearance, which was scarcely prepossessing. Anyone
who thought it worth while to pander to
Nixon's vanity found little difficulty in smiting him
hip and thigh.

After the Greenback ' had taken on board, at St
John's, the cargo of fish and oil. Captain Nixon
determined he would go in for cheating on a higher
scale than heretofore.

I'll fly foi higher game, I will," he chuckled.
I'll astonish the half dead-and-alive rogers I come
across, I will. When I get my headpiece in
proper working order, you may bet your life
Captain Kidd will be a trifle to leeward in
some respects of Angus K Nixon. Yes, sire."

The Greenback's passage across the Atlantic
had been so rapid that the skipper found he
had scarcely sufficient time for planning any
special cheating campaign against the first shore
folk he would meet — the Sloughfordians. He was
almost sorry when he saw the Sloughford pilot-boat
bearing down upon him.

Dang it ! " he muttered ; " say as they may,,

'tis a good wind blows nobody ill.' A touch of
a nor-easter would have given me a darned sight
more time to think out how I am to get clear
of this port with flying colours. 'Tis a bit strange,
it is, that a smart man like me thinks so tarnation
slow ; but when I think a thing out, you bet
there ain't many as can act as quick. I'd just
like, I would, to fleece every mother's son of 'em
in this 'ere port — and I'll do it, too, when my
brain gets into proper working order, after the
anchor's down."

When the pilot got on board he stood hard by
the wheel, and to Captain Dixon's delight, was
evidently lost in amazement at the brightness of
everything around him, and at the beauty of the
curve in the Greenback's decks, for even a sea
pilot can admire the line of beauty. After Angus
had, with a constrained eflbrt of modesty, declared
that there not many smarter men afloat than he,
the pair were silent for some minutes.

What sort of a port is your ? " asked the
skipper, breaking the silence, " for I reckon I'm a
stranger here, and" — with a guffaw — "you mustn't
go risking your salvations trying to take me in."

"Well then, sir, I may tell you, and tell no lie,
that it is the finest and honestest port that a
vessel ever dropped her anchor in. Fine-aise going'
people everywhere, and heaps of water. You could
lay afloat, in a manner of speaking, chock alongside
the quays ; but no doubt, captain, you'll be discharging
at a wharf, and there, at any rate, you'll
have twenty feet under you at low water."

I'm glad to hear that, pilot ; for I wouldn't
care to let my craft touch the ground for a consideration.
She's that sharp, she is, she'd heel
right over if she tried to lay aground. That's so,
pilot."

Ah, 'tis a beauty she is, captain. I fancies
this minute 'tis aboard a yacht I am ; and 'isn't
every day you come across a fine, handsome gentleman
like yourself even in the grandest of yachts.
I suppose now she's a party strong draught of water,
your honour ? "

You bet. She's a good thirteen feet aft this
minute."

Well, that's a comfort anyhow, skipper ; for
you see we're paid according' to the draught of
water, and when you runs over twelve feet they

puts you on a higher scale. Thirteen feet ! I'd
have gone away contented with ten feet on my
ticket, I would ; but you see how aise it is to be
mistaken ! There isn't a man born would think she'd
go over ten feet, to look at her in the trim she is."

Captain Nixon could scarcely contain his rage. He
had been quite under the impression that pilotage
fees in Sloughford harbour were chargeable on the
tonnage of the ship, and he had unwittingly stated
his real draught of water. In ports where pilotage
fees are chargeable on the draught, it was quite a
common practice to give a false return, and both
harbour authorities and pilots were either too indolent
or too unsuspicious to "hook" a strange vessel.
A clever pilot generally contrived to ascertain the
real draught in a roundabout, inoffensive way.

Guess you chaps here are too smooth-faced forme,
pilot," said Nixon, after a long pause. " If
your towns are all as honest as you, a fellow will
have to keep his weather eye open very wide."

Honest, captain ! Why, there is as unsuspecting
and as decent a crowd along the quays of the town
as ever drew the breath of life. An infant might
play with 'em ! "

Nixon paused again and took a careful survey
of the pilot, who looked as childlike and bland
as the " Heathen Chinee." The pilot, thinking that
the skipper was evidently not quite satisfied about
the honesty and guilelessness of the Sloughfordians^
burst out with, —

You seems to doubt me, captain. I declare to-you,
if you were to lie asleep on the quays with
your mouth open, there isn't a soul in the place
would steal a tooth out of your head — and that's
what you can't say of every port."

Captain Nixon seemed more puzzled than ever.
Those Sloughfordians," he thought, " are either
about as smart as they make 'em, or else they're
the most con-founded set of idiots that ever
breathed ; but trust me to take their bearings. I
rather reckon I'll get a trifle to windward of them
before they see the last of the Greenback."

Waal, pilot, I'll just go below and have a bit
of a wash-up before the tug boat gets a grip of our
rope."

LOST, OR NOT LOST?

HEN the brigantine was approaching the
town, a small boat came alongside, and
Madden and Ryan clambered up the
side of the Greenback.

"Waal," asked Captain Nixon, who was now,
with brightly scrubbed face, standing on the poop,
what's your business, gents ? I'm the boss of this
show."

Good morning, captain," said Madden. " We
represent Butler, Mr James Butler, ship-agent ; and,'^
tendering a card, " we have come to ask you for
the ship's business."

Oh ! " drawled Nixon. " That's your game, is
it ? Waal, gents, I ain't going to give you my
business, so you can hook it over the side as quick

as you like. I was recommended at St John's to
another broker — Thornhill by name."

Thornhill ?" exclaimed Madden, frowning. "Thorn-hill
? Are you quite sure that's the name ? Thornhill !"

Quite sure, sonny. I have got it wrote down
in black and white, I have."

Thornhill," repeated Madden. Turning to his
fellow-clerk, who stood silently at his side, " Ryan,
have ever heard of a Mr Thornhill, a ship broker in
Sloughford ? I need scarcely ask you, but I never
like to be too positive about things."

"Thornhill?" said Ryan, in a weak, faltering tone;
no, I don't think I ever heard the name."

Oh, you must be making some mistake, captain,"
addressing himself again to Nixon. " If there were
such a man, it would be impossible that neither of
us should not have heard of him."

Don't you fret, sonny. I wasn't born yesterday,
nor the day before. I know my way about, I do.
Thornhill is the name. I have got it wrote down,
and Angus R. Nixon — that's me, stranger — ain't the
sort of man to make a mistake over a name."

"Well, I am puzzled, I confess," said Madden,
biting his thumb, and still frowning. " Thornhill, a

ship broker, in Slough ford ! " Then, his countenance
beaming with a smile, " By gad ! you are right,
captain. Of course I know the man you mean.
Well, well, how stupid of me to forget ! You must
know, him, Ryan. Don't j^ou remember that poor,,
broken-down old fellow, that has a sort of dungeon
in an attic, which he calls an office ? Ah ! you
must know him. Up a little side street otf the
quay he lives — you have to mount a ladder to getup
to his attic. Think, man ! "

Now that you bring his place to my recollection,
of course I remember the man."

Of course. Oh ! good morning. Captain Nixon,"
with a loud, mocking laugh ; " I'd be very sorry
to take anything out of that poor buffer's way.
Poor old Thornhill ! I ought to have remembered
him at once — many a little job we gave him. But
you put him out of my thoughts when you spoke
of him as the ship agent who was about to transact
the business of a vessel like yours. Oh, give
him your business by all means, captain ! You'll
be as manna in the desert to the poor old fellow."

Nixon looked puzzled ; Madden's apparent sincerity
was fast telling upon him.

Tell Thomhill we were aboard*' went on Madden
volubly, " but would not dream of interfering with
him. Madden is my name, captain — Arthur Madden.
I think we had better be on the move, Ryan. Well,
good day, captain. I hope you're not scant of breath
you'll have plenty of exercise trying to mount to
that attic of your agent's ; it will be quite as good
as a little ramble in the country. I think the ladder
wants a rung or two near the top, but I'm not quite
sure about that. However, you had better be careful,
for it would be a serious matter for a heavy
man like you to miss your footing — a broken neck
is rather a large order. And," lowering his voice and
adopting a confidential and condescending tone, " he'll
want to make you stand him drinks till morning,
but you must not listen to his palaver. Of course
he can't advance you any money, but don't let that
trouble you. If you should want a few pounds when
you get your ship moored, don't be shy of coming to
our office for it. My governor, James Butler — you
will remember the name, I hope — wouldn't like to
see a strange skipper in a fix. Poor old Thomhill !
Come along, Ryan. We are taking up too much of
Captain Nixon's valuable time."

Stop ! " cried Angus, completely fooled : " I
<loii't want to put the business of my craft into
the hands of any old, half-stained broker, with an
office in an attic. I must see into this when I g-et
ashore."

Charity, Captain Nixon, charity," interrupted
Madden. " You can take my word for it, you will
be performing a noble act of self-sacrifice."

Self-sacrifice Ixj hanged ! Business is business
with Angus R. Nixon — that's me, gents. You just
hang on here, and I think I'll make up my mind
to fetch you my papers. You appear a pretty tidy
sort of man, you do, Mr Madden."

Really, captain," smiling, " you are too complimentary.
I am sincerely obliged for your promise,
but my governor would not think of injuring a poor
old man like Thornhill. How stupid of us, Ryan,
to forget the name when Captain Nixon mentioned
it ! No doubt he'll pull you through somehow at the
< 'custom House, if he can manage to pick up any sort
of a decent coat ; but I must say it was not very nice
of your friends at St John's to give you the old
chap's name."

My friends be hanged ! " cried Nixon. " I'll take

precious good care I don't put any of my limbs out
of joint by climbing up a rickety ladder."

Well, if you are quite determined not to go to
Thornhill, you can't do better than put your ship in
our charge, captain. I would be the last in the world
to interfere with your arrangements ; but it would
pain me to see a beautiful little craft like yours get
into bad hands."

Come below, gents," said Nixon, leading the way
down the companion staircase.

Madden and Ryan followed the master of the
Greenback, and the trio soon were seated around
the cabin table.

Anything strange or wonderful on the passage
over ? " inquired Madden, placing the ship's papers
in the breast-pocket of his coat.

Waal, not much," drawled Nixon, with a self-satisfied
air. " We was in too big a hurry, we was.
to trouble about anything — except it might be dodging
the ice for a couple of days. — Ah, by-the-bye,'^
he cried, standing up, " we fell in with some wreckage.
I rather expect the crew of the ship it once
belonged to are hobnobbing it now with old Davy
Jones. Got foul of an iceberg, I reckon ; and I ain't

generally far astray in my reckonings. Come on
deck, gents, and have a look at my bit of flotsam
and jetsam."

Madden was now anxious to get away from the
ship as quickly as possible, fearing Thornhill or one
of his clerks might board her at any moment and
create a little scene. However, he could not refuse
to have a look at the wreckage picked up by the
brigantine. So Nixon and the visitors went on deck.

Ryan remained near the companion in order to
speak to the pilot, and Madden and the skipper
walked to the main hatch.

On the deck, forward of the hatch, lay a large,,
ungainly slab of timber, apparently a portion of a
ship's stern. Madden, who was a trifle near-sighted,
stooped, and knelt on one knee in order to examine
some letters which where painted on the timber.

Instantly he rose to his feet, alarm plainly depicted
in his good-humoured face.

The master of the Greenback gazed in amazement
at him.

Ryan, who had been walking slowly towards

the main hatch, ran quickly forward when he saw

his fellow clerk jump to his feet.

VOL. I. K

What's the matter ? " asked Nixon and Ryan
almost in the same breath.

It is M'Cormick's ship ! " exclaimed Madden.
Look, Ryan," pointing to the wreckage on the
deck. " WATER F, and underneath, SLO. That's
Water Nymph, of Sloughford. It must be."

Ryan stood staring stupidly at the letters painted
on the rough, splintered slab o£ timber.

Turning to Nixon, who could not understand the
cause of the sudden excitement. Madden, still pointing
to the deck, explained, —

There can be little doubt that you have picked
up a portion of the stem of a barque hailing from
this port. Do you really think she is lost ? "

Think ! " said Nixon. " There ain't no thinking
necessary. She's down among the dead men assure
as my name is Angus, and that's pretty sure,
stranger. I picked up a lot of broken timber that
was knocking about when we was a few days
out from St John's ; but I reckoned it wasn't no
manner of use in holding on to anything as
hadn't a clue to the vessel's name. I got rid of
all the lumber except this bit. The ship that
owned it once, you mark me, was broken into

matches by the ice — the coon that sailed her kept
too northerly a course, and perhaps a bad look-out.
That's what he did. You look a trifle steered, you
•do, young man."

Yes ; it gave me a bit of shock. Come along,
Ryan. Good day, Captain Nixon," grasping the mariner's
hand. " Our runner will meet you when you get
shore, and show you our office. We must be off now."

Madden turned to Ryan as he got into the boat,
and said, —

That's a strange piece of news, isn't it ? Now,
don't you get telling every one about it. Try
and keep your tongue quiet until tomorrow.
Here, take the oars ! I'll steer. Run her alongside
the first landing-place we meet. I must see old
Cheevers before he goes to press with tomorrow's
Gazette.' Pull man ! The New Bruns wicker will
be so busy mooring his ship, that it's a thousand
to one he'll forget all about his bit of wreckage
until he awakes in the morning. Old Cheevers
ought to make a little sensation in his 
old paper — bereaved and beautiful widow —
afflicted sister — gallant but ill-fated mariner. Poor
old Jack M'Cormick 1 "

What a fellow you are, Madden ! "

Pull, man ! We'll never get ashore at this rate.
I'd like to see old Thornhill when he finds how
beautifully we got to windward of him over the
Greenback. He was speaking about her to me
yesterday. You were very near selling me with
your stupid replies. ' Oh, yes ' — 'of course ' —
quite so.' Why can't you have more go in
you ? Why can't you pluck up courage for once
in your life ? "

Thornhill will be punching your head one of
these fine days, if you don't look out."

Will he ? Two could play at that game. Look
at that for muscle ! " laying his fingers on his arm.
Pull harder, can't you ? Now then, a good, sweeping
stroke. That's it. Bravo ! Why, you'll be
developing muscle yourself one of these fine days
if you don't look out."

Ryan smiled feebly. His exertions with the oars
were telling upon him rapidly. His cheeks were
a bright red, and the sweat poured down his face.
Laying down the oars, he panted, —

"You must give me a breathing space. I'm
quite done up."

Madden did not offer to take the oars. He lolled
on the stern, toying with the tiller of the boat.

I'm just thinking," said Ryan, wiping his brow
with his handkerchief, " that the governor will
kick up a deuce of a row if he hears of the way
you go on down the river. That New Brunswick
skipper will be so vexed that he'll tell Thornhill
all you said about him."

Not he," smiled Madden. " You just leave Blue
Nose to me. I'll make it right with him , this
evening before he pays a visit to the shore. I
know the sort of man I have to deal with. I
certainly shouldn't like the governor to be upset
by any complaints from Thornhill. The governor
is too absurdly particular. Conscience makes a
regular coward of him. If it hadn't been for my
bounce, we'd never have got the GreenhacJcs papers."

Talking of conscience," said Ryan shyly ; " might
I ask if you have a spark of it left ? "

Why, what on earth do you mean ? "

You know what I mean. Maggie is regularly
breaking her heart." Lifting his head and looking
defiantly at Madden : " You have no right to make
Sb fool of her. I tell you I won't stand it."

He gripped the oars and began to pull slowly
to the shore.

For a moment Madden felt, and looked, uneasy.

Don't be interfering in what doesn't concern
you," he cried, recovering himself. " What business
have you to meddle with my affairs ? "

What business have I ? " laughed the other
scornfully. " I'll tell you what business I have.
You have led her to believe you were going to
marry her, and for some time you have been gradually
trying to back out of your promises — I know
the reason why. You need not think you'll frighten
me now by glaring at me in that way. I'm too*
much in earnest. I tell you if you break my
sister's heart, I'll be her avenger."

You ! " '

Yes. I."

You are mad, Ryan. You don't know what
you're saying, man. Look out ! Quick. You'll
run right into the landing-place. Back water —
quick I "

CONTAINS AN EXTRACT FROM THE " Longford
GAZETTE," AND RECORDS SOME CONVERSATION.

iN Princes Street were situated the offices
of the rival newspapers, the " Sloughford
Weekly Gazette" and the "Sloughford
Weekly Chronicle " — not that their rivalry was of
the ordinary kind, both journals being almost nonpolitical.


The " Gazette " lived by the shipping interest ; the
Chronicle " appealed chiefly to the shopkeepers and
to the farmers who dwelt in the neighbourhood of
Sloughford. The " Gazette " prided itself on its
intimate knowledge of shipping affairs. The
Chronicle " occasionally attempted to be scholarly,
and when in this mood it endeavoured to secure
an aristocratic audience ; but as the only aristocratic,

or would-be aristocratic, families of which the
town, or its neighbourhood, could boast were, or had
been, connected in some way with the sea, the
"Chronicle" in appealing to them was nothing if not
delicately flavoured with salt, and usually came to
grief over some intricate nautical point. The
Gazette," on the other hand, occasionally attempted
to discuss agricultural affairs, and when it
did so it fared no better than the " Chronicle " discussing
matters maritime. It was on such occasions
that editorial venom was exhibited in its most
dangerous aspect ; and sometimes the jeers and the
sneers of the rival editors resulted in quarrels which
threatened to assume alarming proportions.

The editor of the " Gazette," who was the proprietor
of his paper, avowed an infinite contempt
for the editor of the " Chronicle," who was also
proprietor of his paper; and the latter gentleman
avowed an infinite contempt for the former. They
never met socially, and when business brought
them together, the only difficulty was to discover
which of the Sloughford men of letters had succeeded
in moulding all his features into the more
bitter and comprehensive sneer.

The day after the Greenback arrived in the
.slough was publication day at the office of the
•" Sloughford Weekly Gazette," and, prompted by
Madden, Mr Cheevers, the editor, penned a florid
and tearful quarter of a column anent the supposed
loss of the Water Nymph.

The New Brunswick schooner Greenback, commanded
and owned by Captain Angus R. Nixon, a
gentlemanly and intelligent master-mariner, brings
-us a piece of intelligence which will cast a gloom
over at least two happy homesteads. Captain Nixon
picked up in mid-Atlantic a portion of a ship's stern
having painted upon it ' Water N ' and ' Sho.' It would
be idle, nay, criminal, on our part were we to shut
our eyes to the awful gravity which attaches itself
to this wooden messenger from the deep. It will be
remembered by such of our readers as take an interest
in maritime affairs, that the barque Water Nymph,
commanded by that gallant and daring seaman John
M'Cormick, sailed, full of high hope, out of this port
on the 15th of March. Since that date no intelligence
of the barque has reached Sloughford. Many were of
opinion that it was rash of Captain M'Cormick to
brave at such a period of the year — when the frozen

waters of the north were breaking up, sending across
the bosom of the ocean countless masses of drifting*
ice — the dangers of the sad Atlantic. To be brief, we
fear — it has ever been our motto not to mince matters
the ill-fated barque is no more — her last long voyage
has terminated. We hope, we earnestly pray,
that our conviction may prove an erroneous one, our
conclusions hasty and ill-timed ; but, nevertheless, we
would say to all — and their name in Sloughford is
legion — who take an interest in the fate of the gallant
M'Cormick, be prepared for the worst ! We may add
should our surmise prove itself to have been built
upon a solid foundation of fact — there is little room
for doubt that Captain M'Cormick leaves his (must
we say it ?) bereaved widow, and his grief-stricken
half-sister comfortably, nay, amply provided for.
This should afford them some little consolation in
their hour of tribulation. The Water Nymph, as is
pretty generally known, was the sole property of the
brave but ill-starred M'Cormick, and we understand
she is fully insured."

Richard Dalton walked into Butler's office
about eleven o'clock on the day that the " Gazette "

announced the supposed loss of the Water Nyin2^h.
He had come straight from his ship, and had not
heard anything of the news brought by the Greenock.

Since he had made up his mind to see Mrs M'Cor-
mick never again, he had been quite restless and
miserable. In the evenings he usually came on
deck, and looking over the bulwarks on the high
white poop of the Atalanta, his eyes would turn
towards the bridge, associated foi* him with memories
of kisses, of vows made but to be broken.
Then gradually, dreading lest any one might ^ob-
serene him, he would gaze, full of bitter thoughts,
at a white speck visible high up the Bankside
slope through the branches of budding trees. He
seldom went ashore. He had no desire to renew
his acquaintance with any one in Sloughford. Hi
only visitors were Madden and Butler ; the former
came almost every day on business, the latter twa
or three times a week to have a chat.

Dalton learned from the ship broker the history of
Sloughford for the years he had been absent, and of
the people in whom he once had an interest. He
found that nearly all those he had known when a
lad had either gone over to the great majority, or had

left the ever-changing town. Once he mustered up
courage to ask Butler how M'Cormick and his wife
got on together — if he thought the latter was happy
and contented.

Happy ! " said Butler, somewhat evasively. " Why
should she not be happy ? She has everything a
woman who is not over ambitious could wish for —
a pretty house, plenty of money, and good wishes of
everyone that knows her. I grant you," he added,
I could wish, for M'Cormick's sake and for his
wife's sake, that Susan Neville had not married a
man who has lived the best part of his life in an
atmosphere so different from hers, and who is so
much older than she is ; but one can't have everything
in this world. I certainly think she is not
deserving of pity, my dear fellow," he continued,
seeing that Dalton did not offer to speak. " Of
course I know all about the old affair between
you both; but you were quite a youngster then,
and young men get over these troubles. As for
women," he smiled — " well, women easily make up
their mind to forget. Are you satisfied now ? "

Oh, Mr Butler," said Dalton, a little uneasily ,
^' you must not think I troubled you with questions

about Mrs M'Cormick because I was thinking of
what is past and gone for ever. I was anxious
to hear from you, who are such an old friend, if
M'Cormick treated her well — you know what I
mean. Her husband used to be looked upon as a
most violent-tempered man. But there, I suppose
marriage tones one down. Of course it is no
business of mine," he added, as if he were vexed
with himself. "But I am so glad to hear she has
no cause to be sorry for her bargain."

Butler was on the point of saying he feared she
had often cause to regret her act of self-sacrifice,,
but it struck him it would be highly injudicious
to make any such statement to a former lover of
Susan, and he wisely held his peace.

When Dalton entered Butler's office the day of
the announcement in the " Gazette," he was surprised
to find the ordinarily placid ship broker ina
state of great excitement.

"This looks like bad news, shocking news; but
what a shame it is for the ' Gazette ' to put hastily
forward the worst side of the case ! There is certainly
a brighter side. Don't you think so, Dalton ? "

Really I don't know what you are talking about.
What has the ' Gazette ' — I should have thought the
old rag had died a natural death long ago — been
doing now to upset you ? "

Is it possible you have not heard the news ?
Everyone on the quay is discussing it."

No. I have heard no news this morning that
interests me."

Not heard about the Water JSfymph ? "

What about her ? What is it ? "

Dalton's heart gave a violent throb at the mention
of M'Cormick's ship.

Read for yourself," handing him a copy of the
Gazette."

Dalton hastily and excitedly ran his eye through
the paragraph. Then, with beating heart he read
the oddly-worded quarter of a column slowly from
beginning to end. Laying down the newspaper, he
said, —

I consider that the most stupid and unfair specimen
I have seen for many a day, of jumping to
conclusions."

"I am glad indeed that you think so. There is
a glimmer of hope at any rate."

Of course there is." He tried hard to prevent
himself from thinking that possibly there was little
hope. " Surely, if a piece of planking is picked up
at sea, it does not argue that the ship it may
have belonged to has gone down. What the New
Brunswicker picked up may not be a portion of
the Water Nymph's stern at all."

There is a strong probability, though, that it is.'

I grant you that. But, supposing the barque is
lost, why conclude the crew are lost ? It is absurd.
It is grossly unfair to shock the feelings of M'Cor-
mick's relatives, by publishing such a piece of
rubbish. I wonder some one hasn't stone to the
■' Gazette ' office and wrung the editor's neck."

Oh, you must not be too hard on old Cheevers.
He has to make his paper sell."

It is too bad, too bad," Dal ton murmured, his
thoughts now far away from Mr Cheevers, and the
Sloughford Gazette." " I hope," he added, after a
momentary pause, " she — I mean Mrs M'Cormick —
has not seen this," taking up the newspaper again,
and glancing through the paragraph.

I am afraid she has. I believe she takes Mr
-Cheever's paper. However, I sent Helen — my niece

over to Bankside immediately after breakfast to-break
the news to her in case she had not heard it
already. I fear Helen was too late. I wish I could
have gone over to Woodbine Cottage myself, but I
am tied to the office to-day. Madden and Ryan are
at the Custom House, and Murphy has gone down
the river. Women always say or do something
foolish at a time like this. Look here, Dalton, I
know you don't care to renew your acquaintance with
Susan M'Cormick ; but you might put conventionality
aside for to-day, and run across to Bankside."

Dalton who had been standing moodily at the desk
bit his lip at the ship broker's proposal. He would
like to go, and yet he felt it would be unwise. He
would not care to meet her at such a time, and
perhaps she would be displeased if he went. Then
he reflected that Miss Cadogan was with Susan, and
the presence of a stranger — for he had not attempted
to renew his acquaintance with Butler's niece —
would prevent any awkwardness from arising. He
might be of some real use ; he might be able to
make Susan more easy in her mind.

It would be idle to deny that Dalton experienced
a wild thrill of hope at the prospect of M'Cormick

being no more ; but he had the grace to check the
feeling instantly, and to despise himself for having
entertained it for a moment. Besides, he remembered
what Butler had, somewhat untruthfully, told him
respecting the relations between Susan and her
husband ; and in any case, thought Dalton, this piece
of news would shock a wife terribly, even supposing
she was not violently attached to her husband. And
what reason had he to think she did not love him ?
He had better do as Butler suggested.

Accordingly, giving the ship broker an assurance
that he would endeavour to convince Mrs M'Cormick
that there was no need to attach any importance to
the surmises of the " Gazette," Dalton set out for
Woodbine Cottage.

VOL. I.

DALTON AND MRS M'CORMICK RECEIVE A SHOCK.

N order to reach Woodbine Cottage, Dalton
had to cross the old wooden bridge.
As he passed through the gates a dull,
depressing feeling, born of memory and disappointed
hopes, seized hold of him and saddened
him beyond measure. He was now standing upon
the spot where Susan and he had lingered, had
kissed each other the night before he had left his
native town, many years ago. For a moment he
stood still.

I cannot face her," he mused, " and talk platitudes
about hope and resignation. What does it
matter to me if M'Cormick is no more — what does
it matter to me ? Oh, no, no, no, a thousand times
no ! I must not harbour such thoughts," putting

out his hands as if to ward off some evil spirit.
He walked forward again, endeavouring to think
of something, anything, which would take his
mind away from the Water Nymph and every one
connected with her. But the effort was in vain.
He found himself constantly wondering could the
Gazette's " surmises be correct ; and, if they were
correct, was it possible that after a time Susan
would listen to him, would give him some faint
hope of future happiness. Did she still care for
him ? Sometimes he fancied she did. Sometimes
he fancied she did not. But what was the use
oi all this weighing of impossibilities ? Was it not
his intention and desire now to quiet her mind
by assurances of the safety of the barque, and how
could he hope to simulate a confident tone if he
allowed himself to drift into thoughts and indulge
in hopes which he felt were, under the circumstances,
unworthy of any honourable man ?

In this unquiet frame of mind he reached the
gate of Woodbine Cottage.

As he walked up the gravelled path leading to
the house, he was surprised to see Arthur Madden
standing at the window. A lady stood alongside

Madden. Dalton had no doubt this was Mrs
M'Cormick, but he kept his eyes fixed on the
ground.

When he entered the sitting-robin he found
Madden was alone.

She has gone away," reflected Dalton sadly.
She will not see me. Perhaps it is all for
the best."

I am surprised to And you here, Mr Madden,"
he said, shaking Arthur's hand. " Your governor
told me about an hour ago that you were up to
your eyes in business at the Custom House," seating
himself on a low chair near the window.

So I was. I ought to be there now, I know ;.
but I heard some news at the Custom House,,
and as I had a punt at the quay, I thought I'd
just pull across to Bankside and tell the good
people here the latest intelligence. Miss Cadogan
was in the room when you opened the gate. She
has gone upstairs to Mrs M'Cormick."

Then it was not Susan he had seen at the window.
The discovery caused him to feel, he could
not tell why, strangely happy.

You said you came here with some news, Mr

Madden. Might I ask what the news is about ?
I fancied you were going to tell me."

Of course I was. The news is about the Water
Nymph. What other news could interest Slough-ford
to-day ? We all seem to have Water Nymph
on the brain. — Hallo ! " he cried, " there's that vessel
tacking again. I must catch her name this time,"
lifting an opera-glass to his eyes, and leaning on
the sill of the half-open window.

What could Madden's news be ? Why had he
hesitated to tell him ? It was something, perhaps,
which would make him happy or miserable forever.
Madden must have some important intelligence
to relate, or he would not have come across
specially with it. Had the barque arrived safely ;
or had her crew been picked up ? Or had the
^' Gazette's " surmises been confirmed ? What did that
fellow at the window mean by his silence ? Was
he tantalising him purposely ? He dared not show
Madden he was over-anxious to know what the
news was. Madden would perhaps guess the cause
of his anxiety, and he would not wish him to do
so for worlds. And yet why should he not ask
him again ? Was not every one curious about

the matter? Had not Madden himself declared
so a few minutes ago ? He would ask him again.
He could not sit there idly, his fate, it might be,,
trembling in the balance.

He moved uneasily in his chair, and looked up
at Madden, who was still at the window, tiu-king
the opera - glass slowly round as if to catch sight
of some moving object.

Well, well," cried the ship broker's clerk, almost
flinging the opera-glass from his hand, and turning-round.
" This is positively tormenting ! "

What is it ? " asked Dalton.

"A vessel is beating up the river, and I just
caught a glimpse of her name, but am not quite
sure of it set. She's on the other tack now, so
I must wait a bit. I wish there was some regulation
to make ships have their names painted on
the bows."

No doubt if the Board of Trade heard the present
regulations were a source of inconvenience or
discomfort to you, they would at once alter the
whole system of navigation," said Dalton, now completely
out of temper.

I didn't know you went in for such sledgehammer

sarcasm," rejoined Madden, with a good-humoured
laugh. " Do you suffer from liver ? "

Dalton burst into laughter.

That is the second time to-day that I have
been asked about my liver. Have you seen Mrs
M'Cormick since you came ? "

"No. Miss Cadogan tells me that she is dreadfully
upset at the news ; but she promises to come
downstairs in a few moments."

"You have some fresh news for her. You said
so when I came in. What is it, might I ask ? "

Oh, yes ! I had almost forgotten. I am rather
inclined to look upon it as important too — but I
have lost sight of my ship."

Bother your ship ! "

If I am right about her, I think, with a little
skill, a good sensation poster might be got out by
the ' Gazette.' "

Oh, damn the ' Gazette 1 ' "

What an impatient fellow you are. You would
take an interest in the ship, too, if you had only
the patience to hear me out — that is, if my eyes
did not deceive me a moment ago."

Why ? What do you mean ? " cried Dalton,,

rising from his chair, a vague terror possessing
him.

Oh, don't look as if you had seen a ghost !
Come here."

Dalton went to the window.

Madden, still holding the opera - glass by his
side, pointed to the river. " Do you see those
ships there ? "

"Yes."

There were some half-dozen vessels, large and
small, beating up the stream with the flood.

One of them, unless I'm very much mistaken
- — there she goes ! " he cried, lifting the opera-glass
to his eyes. " Now then," following the movements
of the ship. " Round you go ! That's it ! Lovely !
. . . I'm right," he cried, looking curiously at
Dalton — " Water Nymph."

Water Nymph ! " shouted Dalton, seizing the
opera-glass. " The Water Nymph in the river again!"

A low cry startled both men. Dalton knew the
cry came from the woman he loved. He turned
swiftly round.

The folding-doors had been opened as Madden
cried out the name of the ship.

IN WHICH THE LANDLADY OF THE " BOLD DRAGOON
Completely LOSES HER TEMPER.

HE next day a woman draped in black
toiled up the slope to Woodbine Cottage.



Arriving at the door, she knocked
loudly, and gave the bell a vigorous tug.

Is your mistress at home ? " she inquired, as
the servant opened the door.

Yes, ma'am ; but — "

But what ? Tell her I wish to speak to her.
You know me, don't you ? "

"Yes, ma'am."

Well, don't stand staring at me. Let me pass.
I know my way," entering the hall and opening
the door of the sitting-room.

The servant mounted the stairs, evidently angered
and bewildered.

The way that girl stared at me — impudent
hussy ! " fumed Miss Walsh, seating herself in a
comfortable chair. " One would think I was a
natural curiosity. I hope her mistress will not keep
me waiting long. I wish that stupid man, Madden,,
had kept his word, and found out all about John's
will for me — it would have saved me this tiresome
walk. I'll give Mistress Susan a piece of my mind
if she is not straightforward."

Mrs M'Cormick was sitting at the window of her
dressing-room when the servant entered and told
her that Miss Walsh was downstairs. She had not
yet recovered from the excitement and the shock
of the previous day. Her cheeks were deadly white,,
and her eyes seemed unnaturally large and dark.

The previous day Madden had reached the house
only a few minutes before Dalton. He was surprised
and delighted to find Helen alone in the ,
but he had barely time to say that he
was the bearer of some important news for Mrs
M'Cormick when he saw Dalton approaching the
house. Helen went upstairs when Dalton's knock
was heard at the hall door, and Madden felt he
owed the newcomer a grudge for the interruption,.

for he had almost plucked up courage to declare a
second time his passion for Helen.

He guessed that the master of the Atalanta was
still in love with Mrs M'Cormick, and he determined
to tantalise him by saying there was further
news about the Water Nymph, and he would then
seek some opportunity of shifting the conversation.


At first he had been staring through the opera-glass
simply for the purpose of keeping Dalton in
suspense, but he was himself excited when he saw
something which looked like Water Nyiii'ph on the
stern of a vessel beating up the river.

"I'll give Dalton a bit of a shock," he thought,
by informing him the Water Nyr)ii)h is in the
Slough. It won't be a lie — although it won't be
exactly the truth — so he can't kick up a row with
me afterwards. If he does, I can assure him I distinctly
stated this craft was a brig. What a lark
it will be to watch his face when I tell him ! I
know the fellow would give his eyes to be certain
the barque was in Davy's locker."

Susan had seen the statement in the " Sloughford
Gazette " before Helen's arrival. Although she had

boasted to her husband that she had no belief in
presentiments, yet she had been indulging in them
for several days, and when she read the newspaper
she had sustained only a dull, stupefying shock.
For some time she had been unaccountably uneasy.
Her husband's words and manner the day she had
last seen him had impressed her strongly, and
filled her with forebodings of evil. The letter
which Dalton had given her, and which she had
read over and over again, as if it had been her
first love-letter, filled her ears with the despairing
cry of a man who knew his end was not far off.
In the letter M'Cormick made but one reference
to the future, and that reference was ominous —
it concerned his will.

When she laid down the " Gazette," she felt assured
her husband was no more. For a long time
she sat thinking calmly of her unromantic married
life. One by one all M'Cormick's good qualities
and actions stood out in bold contrast with his
faults and failings. The shadow of death shut out
the ill deeds, and as the shadow faded gradually
his good deeds passed before her mental vision in
glaring colours. Suddenly she burst into a passionate

fit of weeping, disturbed only by Helen's
advent.

They talked together over the news brought by
the Greenback, and gradually Mrs M'Cormick experienced
a sense of relief. The news might not
be true. Helen's uncle considered no importance
should be attached to it. Perhaps she had been
fretting without cause.

Then Madden's arrival caused a diversion, and soon
afterwards Helen brought Susan word that Dalton
was also below, and that both men wished to see her.

A reaction had now set in. A wild, feverish hope
surged within Susan's breast. She knew she was
wicked beyond measure to indulge in such a hope
even for a moment. But memories of her old, her
only, lover would not be driven out.

She started violently from her chair, a crimson
glow suffusing her cheeks. With a sob in her throat,
she made some inarticulate remark to Helen, and
led her silently down the stairs. She beckoned
Helen to follow her into the sitting-room at the
back, for she could not yet face one of the visitors.
She must first succeed in banishing from her mind
all guilty thoughts of him.

Through the folding doors she could hear faintly
the voices of the men in the outer room. At last
she fancied she was prepared to meet her old lover,
and she silently opened the folding-door. As she did,
she heard Madden's words and Dalton's cry — a cry of
wild despair, which she could not restrain herself from
echoing; and she remembered nothing more for hours.

When Susan had recovered sufficiently, she learned
the truth — at least what Sloughford accepted as the
truth — from Helen's lips, namely, that a boat belonging
to the Water Nymph had been picked up,
keel upwards ; and there could be now little doubt
the barque and all on board had been lost.

A doctor was sent for, and he recommended an
immediate change of scene, and suggested a neighbouring
watering-place.

Susan had been told she must not for some time
see anyone who might excite her or cause her to
brood over her husband's death. She knew it was
unwise to go down downstairs to Miss Walsh, but she
thought she was sufficiently calm to see her, and
she felt it might appear unkind if she were to allow
her husband's sister to go away without a word
sympathy.

When she entered the sitting-room, her visitor's
mourning caused Susan to experience a horrible
sensation — it brought the fact of M'Cormick's loss
home to her in a swift, deadly way. Any lingering
doubts she might have entertained were swept away
by the crape and bombazine.

Then she found herself wondering how her visitor
had managed to deck herself out in mourning so
very rapidly. She held out her hand in silence, and
she could not repress a shudder as she felt the clasp
of Miss Walsh's black-cotton gloved fingers.

This is terrible news, isn't it ?" said Miss Walsh,
lifting her veil. " Poor, dear, John ! " She made a
desperate but unsuccessful attempt to burst into tears
-as she spoke.

Yes," said Susan, sitting down. " But I beseech
you not to give way now. Do not let us talk
over what has happened. The shock has made me
very weak, and I have been forbidden to speak about
what has happened, for a little time ; but I could not
let you go away without seeing you."

You are kindness itself," sneered Miss Walsh.
'* I am not going to distress you by any exhibition of
natural grief. Poor, dear John ! It relieves me a

little to give vent to my feelings," patting her eyes
with a black-bordered handkerchief. " There, I'm
better now," with a prolonged snuffle ; '' and I must
ask you, painful as it is for me to touch upon
such a subject, for some information about my poor
dear brother's worldly affairs."

Unfortunately, you could not come to a worse
person. At present I am not in a position to give
you any information."

You decline to do so. Very well, madam, I
must only endeavour to compel you. I came herewith
every intention of being reasonable, but allow
me to tell you I am not going to be snubbed by
you or by anyone else."

It is very wrong to speak to me in that fashions-miss
Walsh. I have no desire to be uncommunicative,
but the fact is, I cannot tell you anything
now. You have no right to distress me. I told
you I was far from being well. Perhaps if you
called on Mr Butler — "

Rubbish ! " interrupted Miss Walsh. " You are
the person to give me the information I require.
You are well aware my brother made a will. Can
you deny that ? "

I don't want to deny or to assert anything, but
I must decline to carry on a conversation of this
kind."

Oh ! must you, indeed ? You know well where
the will is, and what is in it to ; and you think you
can play with me ; but I am no child, madam."

This is very absurd, Miss Walsh. I cannot
understand you. Why will you not believe me ?
It would be of little advantage to hide anything
from you — and is it not rather heartless to talk
of wills ? We cannot be certain of anything yet.
We must and we ought to have hope."

Oh ! the barque is lost right enough ; and well
you know it. There is no use in trying to wriggle
out of the truth in that way."

Miss Walsh's brutality aroused whatever was combative
in Susan, and disgusted her beyond measure.
She had endeavoured to be gentle and forbearing
with her visitor, feeling that a sister's grief should
be respected, and that the sudden shock had upset
Miss Walsh ; but it was no longer possible to suppose
that her visitor possessed a spark of sisterly
feeling, and Susan made up her mind to leave the
room without further parley.

VOL. I. M

Rising, she said, in as quiet a tone as she could
command, —

"I do not see that anything but unpleasantness
can result by prolonging our conversation."

Then you absolutely refuse to tell me anything ? "
cried Miss Walsh furiously, rising with a bound from
her chair, an ugly glitter in her stony eyes.

I have nothing to tell you at present."

I'll let you see whether you have or not. You
want to cheat me out of my rights. That's what
you want to do. It's all a game between yourself
and your friend Butler, but I'll find a way to make
both of you speak."

Susan had now opened the door of the sitting-room.


"Ah! you're running off, are you? All right, my
lady," following Susan into the hall, and shouting
and shaking her fist as Mrs M'Cormick tremblingly
ascended the staircase. " I knoAv all about your
goings on lately with young Dalton. I'll make a
show of you all over Sloughford. I'll drag your
name in the dirt ! "

It is impossible to say what further threats Miss
Walsh might have delivered herself of had she remained

longer at the foot of the stairs, but suddenly
she found herself thrust along the hall. Before she
could arm herself against an attack, the hall door
opened, and with another thrust Miss Walsh was
propelled by Mrs M'Cormick's muscular maid into
the outer air.

NIXON FINDS HIMSELF IN Strange COMPANY,
AND BEHOLDS HIS FATE.

!HE Greenback was not ordered into a
discharging berth until the second day
after her arrival in the Slough.
The master of the schooner was exceedingly
wroth when he discovered that Madden had be-fooled
him about Thornhill. However, the ship-broker's
clerk was confident he knew the temperament
the man with whom he had to deal, and when he
saw the Greenback alongside the wharf, he went
on board with a swaggering gait and a jaunty air.
He demonstrated to Nixon the unwisdom of
making a row : such a course, he argued, could
not mend matters, and every one in Sloughford

would only laugh at the manner in which the
stranger had been taken in, if the story once became
public property.

If you cannot make up your mind to forgive
me," Madden went on volubly, " there is nothing
for it but to hand over your ship's papers to
Thornhill — of course we would not dream of detaining
them in our office against your will. After
all, you will find we can do as well for your interest
as anyone else, and I shall take care that
the little subterfuge of mine shall be a strict secret
between ourselves. You must admit, Captain Nixon,
that competition is so keen in these days a man
should have his wits about him and be up to
-all sorts of tricks and dodges in order to do any
good. Moreover you are not the injured party —
if anybody is really injured — in this case. Thorn-hill
is the man who would have the most cause
for complaint, but he need never be the wiser if we
both agree, like sensible men, to hold our tongues."

After some deliberation, Nixon decided upon
accepting Madden's view of the situation.

Waal, let it be ! I'll forgive your little trick,
if 1 can't forget it. You were a size too sharp

for me the day afore yesterday ; but I wasn't prepared
for falling foul in this forgotten corner of
the globe of any but the most dead-and-alive set
of rogers. I was off my guard, I was, and that
is how you got to inward of me so mighty easy.
But don't you go calculating, young man, you're
going to find a softy again in Angus R. Nixon.
If you do, you'll discover yourself a long way to
leeward in your calculations."

Oh, Captain Nixon, I'd want to be a thorough
stupid if I did not know I was dealing with a
man whose head is as hard as hickory. But even
Solomon himself, and those daring seafarers, the wise
men of Gotham, were sometimes caught napping."

Nixon was flattered at being compared with
Solomon and with any collection of wise men. He
had never heard of the Gotham wiseacres, but as
Madden declared they were seafarers, he felt there
was a professional as well as a mental relationship
existing between them and him.

I rather like you, young man," said the skipper,
after making up his mind he would allow
the Greenback's papers to remain in Butler's hands.
"It ain't often I takes a fancy to new hands, but

your headpiece seems to be screwed on pretty
tight, it do ; and that's what suits me down to-the
ground. You understand me, don't you ? "

"Perfectly. It is a case of the sympathy which
naturally exists between two great minds. Look
us up at the office during the day. If you like,
I'll show you round the town this evening as
soon as I get done with my work. By the way,
your log-book seems to be rather in a mess. You
have scarcely made an entry in it."

No. That's what fixes me ; but keep it dark.
I'm rather backward at that sort of work, somehow.
What's to be done ? "

"It would have been a very simple matter, but
for the wreckage you picked up. There will be
some sort of inquiry over the loss of the Water
Nyinph, so we shall have to be cautious. We
must have an hour or so together this evening.
Your ship ought to have been reported by this
time ; but as you haven't started at discharging, I
suppose it won't make much difference."

"Yes. The officer in charge here told me I'd
get into a row over it."

Oh, we'll make it all square ? I'll get the log-book

to rights before morning. I'll doctor it. I
rather like that kind o£ work ; it gives such play
to the imagination."

Risky game, ain't it ? "

Sometimes. I was very near getting into
trouble last week. A fat, unromantic Welshman
hadn't made an entry in his log from start to finish,
and he was so infernally stupid I could get
nothing out of him in the shape of information, so
I had to work the whole voyage out myself."

And, of course, you made a mess of it."

Of course I didn't. But I chased that craft
with an albatross for weeks, and introduced bits
of the 'Ancient Mariner' here and there. The collector
of customs happened to look through the
log, and he thought he had got hold of a salt-water
Shakespeare, so he asked the old skipper to dinner.
I heard it was about the most amusing thing on
record — the collector trying to draw out the literary
skipper,, and the poor old skipper thinking the
collector was a raving lunatic. But," observing
that Nixon did not enjoy the joke, " I am wasting
your valuable time. Captain Nixon, and my own,
too, I fear. I'll say bye-bye for the present."

The master of the Greenback Joungecl into Butler's
office during the afternoon, and was conducted by
Foxy Ned into Ryan's office.

Mr Madden and the governor are inside, captain,"
said Ned, pointing to the office to the left of
the passage, " so you'd better take a seat in here
for the present. Mr Michael " — to Ryan, — " this is
the captain of the Greenback!'

About half-a-dozen skippers were seated round
the fire. Amongst them were the Bishop, whose
ship was going to sail in the morning ; Bendall,
whose ship was still under repair ; and Carmody,
who was in extra ill-humour — his craft was taking
in a cargo of oats, and was being delayed an unreasonably
long time. Captains Cummins, Broaderss,
and Sullivan had gone to sea during the previous
week ; and Captain Arkwright was probably slumbering
in the " Nest."

After exchanging a few words with Ryan, who
was still nervous about facing the New Brunswickerer,
the master of the Greenback took a chair
and joined in the conversation going on among the
.skippers.

You are the gentleman, I believe," said the

Bishop, " who was the first bearer of the sad news
about the Water Nymph."

Yes. Did you know the master ? "

Know him ! Ah, indeed I did, captain. I can
remember the time when we were gay, heedless youngsters,
playing leap-frog and pegging tops together."

Bendall laughed loudly.

What ails you, Tom Bendall ? It's very ignorant,
I can tell you, and moreover very unseemly,
to be grinning away there when people are talking
of such serious matters."

Oh, dear ! oh, dear I " chuckled Bendall. " I was
just picturing you, Captain Augyy, playing leap-frog
with your top hat planted well over your ears, and
pegging a top with your umbrella made fast under
your arm."

Carmody, who had been indulging in a fit of
silent anger, laughed a short, rasping laugh, which
seemed to irritate the Bishop even more than
Bendall's interruption.

It's disgusting, fairly disgusting ! " said the
Bishop, wheeling round his chair and turning his
back on Carmody.

Don't you take on so," said Nixon. " You was

going to say something to me, I think, when these
gentlemen here interrupted you."

"Yes, captain. I was going to ask your opinion
about the Water Nyinph. It seems a vessel has
arrived in Liverpool which picked up one of the
barque's boats, bottom up. I suppose you have
heard this already ? "

No ; indeed I have not. I have only just come
ashore."

Mr Madden — Mr Butler's clerk— heard so at the
Custom House, so I suppose there can be little
doubt now as to John M'Cormick. What's ydbr
opinion, Captain Nixon ? "

Waal, my opinion is easily given, stranger.
Your friend's ship is at the bottom of the Atlantic,
and so is every man Jack of her crew. I said so
to Mr Madden the day I arrived in the river, and
when I says a thing straight, I aunt generally far
astray."

Sad ! Terribly sad ! " murmured the Bishop.
Well, well, it may be all our fate one of these
fine days," shaking his head solemnly.

Those that are born to be hanged needn't have
much to fear of drowning," smiled Carmody.

A very ignorant and a very foolish remark, Pat.
I wonder at you," droned the Bishop.

How curious it was," said Bendall, " that a
vessel of the same name should have arrived at
the quay yesterday ! "

Is that so ? " said Nixon. " Yes, it is a bit curious.
A barque ? "

"No, a brig."

What's curious about it ? " snarled Carmody.
I never heard such a parcel of nonsense. Curious !
I suppose there are forty ships of the same name
knocking about. It's mighty easy to amuse you
all. Curious ! Faugh ! "

I hope you're getting on faster with the loading,
Pat ? " said the Bishop soothingly, turning round and
facing Carmody again. " Did you get much oats onboard
yesterday ? "

Not as much as would make a meal for a genet.
'Tis enough to put a man in a fair rage."

Butler and Madden now entered Ryan's office.
Madden shook hands with Nixon cordially, and
turning to the ship broker, said, —

This is the master of the New Brunswick
schooner."

"Welcome to Sloughford ! " said Butler, "although
you haven't been the bearer of good news. Mr
Madden and I were speaking about you a few
minutes ago."

Nothing bad, I hope," smiled Nixon.

No. We were discussing the loss of the barque
whose wreckage you fell in with. It seemed strange
to me at first that her stern had been torn away if
she ran into the ice."

Easily explained, sir. No manner of doubt 'twas
owing to a bad look-out, and very likely the disaster
came off in the night time. I reckon there was a
heap of confusion on board, and some one brought
her round with a crash, stern on to the ice. That's
how I reckon it was, and Angus R, Nixon — that's me,
Mr Butler — ain't often far astray in his reckonings,
I said as much the first time your clerk came aboard
my little craft."

"Evidently the poor fellows are all lost," sighed
the ship broker. "I suppose there was no time to
launch the boats. It's a sad affair. It has quite
upset me."

Ay, indeed ! " murmured the Bishop. " Poor John
M'Cormick ! He looked so full of life and hope the

last time we saw him in the office here, sir. Ah, the
sea is a poor profession ! It's only fit for dogs, or the
very dregs of humanity."

Was there anything found in the boat the Liverpool
ship picked up ? " asked Bendall.

Was there anything found in the boat 1 " sneered
Carmody. " Was there anything found in a boat
picked up bottom upwards ? Did any man ever hear
such a question ? I suppose there was nothing more
in her than is in your head this minute, Tom Bendall
emptiness."

Pat, Pat," cried the Bishop, shaking his forefinger
at Carmody, " is there any use in my talking to you
at all? Fie! fie! Pat." Then turning to the ship-broker,
— " I wonder, sir, did poor John perish well
off?"

I don't know ; but I fancy he made a good deal
of money latterly. Sometimes I have hopes we
shall, in spite of everything, hear something more
of M'Cormick."

Never ! " said Nixon emphatically.

May I ask, captain," inquired Carmody, " where,
how, and when you obtained the gift of prophecy ? "

I don't understand you, sir."

It isn't to be expected you could understand Pat
Harmony ail in a minute," said the Bishop apologetically.
"You mustn't heed him, Captain Nixon. He's
a well-meaning man, but very hasty in his remarks."

I don't want a character from you, at any rate,
Augyy Flynn," cried Carmody, with blazing eyes.

Oh, dear ! oh, dear 1 " chuckled Bendall.

Butler for some minutes had been paying little or
no attention to the conversation of the skippers. He
stood with his back against the mantelpiece, thinking-how
he ought to act with regard to M'Cormick's will.
If M'Cormick was dead, he ought to produce the will
at once ; and yet he could not divest himself of a
lingering doubt as to the fate of the Water JVym2yh.
If M'Cormick was still in the land of the living, it
would be better to make no mention of the tin case
now lying in the safe, for the will in his possession
might not be M'Cormick's last will. Mrs M'Cormick
had not, on her husband's own admission, been treated
fairly, and the master of the Water Nymph had promised
faithfully to reconsider the matter. Husband
and wife had, he knew, parted on much better terms
than usual. If he gave up the will, some effort would
probably be made by those whom the will might

benefit to establish the fact of the loss of the barque.
This would be sure to upset Mrs M'Cormick, and in
her present state of health any unusual excitement or
worry might be a serious injury to her.

His reveries and the conversation of the skippers-were
suddenly interrupted by the entrance of a lady
dressed in black.

I want a word with you at once, Mr Butler," said
the lady, lifting her veil. " Can we have a few
minutes together ? "

Certainly," said Butler. " If you will come-with
me into the other office we can talk there."

The features 6f this lady were unfamiliar to the
master of the Greenback, but he felt a fluttering
at his heart as he, in company with the other
mariners, sat staring at Miss Walsh.

After the landlady of the "Bold Dragoon" had
left Ryan's office with Butler, the Bishop informed
Nixon that the visitor was John M'Cor-
mick's half-sister. The New Brunswicker also learned
that she was unmarried and had expectations.

The very thing for me," he thought. " Womenfolk
never seemed to interest me before ; but this-party,
I reckon, would just about suit me."

It would be impossible to discover any element
of beauty or grace in Miss Walsh's features. The
lines were hard, determined, and angular, and
there was a certain air of masculinity in her appearance
which repelled most men. Perhaps it
was this very masculinity which attracted the
skipper of the Greenback. If he had met the lady
for the first time behind the counter of the '^ Bold
Dragoon," he would not, in all probability, have
devoted a second thought to the consideration of
her charms ; but her dramatic entrance, and the
defiant manner she had adopted when addressing
the ship broker, made their mark on the ordinarily
unimpressionable " Blue Nose."

A woman like that," he mused, " knows her
way about, you may bet. No nonsense there.
None of your whining, whimpering, 
baby faces, that raddle their jaws and altars
their eyebrows, and has as much false hair in
their clothes-chest as would make a shore mooring
for a full-rigged ship. I'd best make a move in
that direction, I had."

Accordingly he bade good-bye to his companions,

and told Madden, who was busy writing at Ryan's
VOL. I. N

desk, that he would return to the office in the course
of an hour.

Miss Walsh was still in Madden's office with the
ship broker, but Nixon made up his mind she would
not remain there very long.

Women of that sort don't lose no unnecessary
time," he argued. " She'll be back to headquarters
before many more minutes are over."

As he came into the passage he saw Foxy Ned
a scrubby-faced, shabbily-dressed little man —
leaning, in a reverie, against the jamb of the
office door. He tapped Ned on the shoulder, and
asked which was the way to the " Bold Dragoon."

I'll show you the road with pleasure, captain,"
said Ned briskly, rosy visions of gratuitous drinks
tilling all the odd corners of his mind.

I can find my way without a bodyguard. Just
you direct me straight, my red-headed filibuster.
I know the sort of games you like to play, better
than you can tell me. You chaps have as keen
a scent for cheap drinks as a red Injun, you
have ; but you aunt going to come the roger over
Angus R. Nixon — that's me, whisky face. You
tell me the shortest cut right straight away, that's

what you'll do ; or I'll be having a little talk with
your master."

With a half-suppressed growl. Foxy Ned told
Nixon where the " Bold Dragoon " was situated.

You think yourself mighty clever, don't you,
Mister Blue Nose ? " growled Ned, as Nixon
walked away. " But if I don't make the loss of
that drink cost you a sight more than a barrel of
beer, you insulting' vagabond, may I never put a
pewter measure to my lips again. I'll lead you
the life of a dog, believe me, while you're in
this port anyhow ; or my name isn't Edward
Murphy ! "

AT THE SHIPBROKER's HOUSE.

[ALTON had now little, if any, doubt as to-the
fate of M'Cormick. He was convinced
the Water Nyiyvph had been lost
with all hands. Still, he knew that nothing could be
proved satisfactorily, and it was useless for him tO'
indulge in foolish dreams.

His ship was discharging very slowly, and probably
a fortnight would elapse before the last of the
cargo would be taken away. He now felt wretched
as he thought of the delay. He was anxious to leave
Sloughford at once. He dared not trust himself to
meet Susan, with the knowledge that her husband, in
all probability, no longer stood between them.

Did Susan care for him ? and if she did, would it
not be all the better they did not see each other fora

long' time ? How honos ^ It must be years. Marriage
she could not think of so honors there was no
absolute certainty with regard to M'Cormick's fate.
Why should he dream of marriage ? It was absurd.
Susan had most likely ceased long ago to care for
him. Had she ever cared for him ? If she had, could
she not have waited ?

He was constantly tortured with conflicting
thoughts. At one time he fancied Susan had never
ceased to remember him, and would perhaps listen to
him again if she were convinced she was free. Tien
he reflected that his long absence, the great change
Susan had passed through — the life she had led for
the years she was the wife of M'Cormick, the new
ties and duties she had taken upon herself — must
have blotted him effectually from her heart. Had
her heart been ever his ? Never ! She was like all
other women, fickle, deceitful. And if she did, after
.a lapse of years, consent to listen to a renewal of his
declaration of love, might not M'Cormick return ? —
such things had happened often before — and then fora
second time the cup of happiness would be dashed
from his lips. He must trample his hopes and desires
under foot once more.

Towards evening he came ashore, and walked to-butler's
office. He found the ship broker alone in
Madden's office.

I am glad you looked me up this evening, Dalton,"
said Butler. " I should like to have a long chat with
you. I am troubled very much, and perhaps you
could help me out of my difficulty."

I shall be only too pleased if I can be any assistance
to you. You seem rather out of sorts."

Yes. I had a most unpleasant quarter of an
hour to-day — but this isn't a very comfortable place
to indulge in a confidential chat. You had best
come home with me and have a cup of tea. I don't
think you have met my niece since your arrival
here. Too bad of you to make such a stranger of
yourself."

I met Miss Cadogan yesterday at Woodbine-cottage."


Of course. I had forgotten. She told me all
about it. Mrs M'Cormick is sadly upset, I fear.
She is going out of the town."

Going out of town ! Where ? "

Not very far. To Rosspoint. The doctor said
she had better get away from Sloughford at once, and

Rosspoint is very quiet just now. But we had better
make a start before anyone conies to detain me here.
I can hear Captain Carmody in Ryan's office now.
What a shrill voice he has ! It goes through me like
a knife."

Butler and Dalton left the office, and were soon
seated in the ship broker's drawing-room.

Helen made no reference to the scene at Woodbine
Cottage. She had learned one secret, namely,
that Susan was in love with Dalton. Her woman's
instinct divined at once the cause of Susan's cry.

After tea, the two men settled themselves down
for a chat ; and Helen, at her uncle's request, seated
herself at the piano.

I am going to tell you a bit of a secret, at least
what I considered a secret until to-day," began Butler,
leaning back in his armchair and folding his arms.
And I am then going to ask your advice."

I am too inexperienced, I fear, to advise anyone,"
smiled Dalton.

Well, let me be the judge of that. Now, to
begin at the beginning. The evening before the
Water Nymph sailed from Sloughford, John M'Cor-
mick came to my office and left in my care his will.

. . Helen," he said, turning his face towards his
niece, " play ' The Last Glimpse of Erin ' for us."

Dalton was glad the ship broker had turned his
head away, even for a moment. The mere mention
of the Water' Nymph made him experience a momentary
sensation of mingled curiosity and uneasiness.
^' Isn't that the ' Coulin ' Miss Cadogan is playing ? "
he inquired, as the ship broker again turned his face
towards Dalton.

Yes. It is the same air — the ' Coulin ' and ' The
Last Glimpse of Erin.' "

How strange," said Dalton, " that you should
have asked Miss Cadogan to play ' The Last Glimpse
of Erin ' just after speaking of M'Cormick and his
ship!"

I never thought of that," said the shipowner,
drawing his eyebrows together. " It is odd. The
air is an especial favourite of mine, particularly
when I am not in a very bright humour; it's
melancholy, strange to say, has a soothing effect upon
me. But to go back to the Water JVymph. M'Cor-
mick left me his will, with a strict injunction not
to tell anyone I had the document. He assured meno
one except himself and the man who drafted

the will knew of its existence — how other people
managed to find out that such a document existed
puzzles me — and as he had not treated his wife
well in it, he promised to make a new will when
he returned from Quebec."

What a pity he did not destroy the will before he
sailed, if he felt uneasy about its contents ! "

"Yes. It was a pity. I strongly advised him todo
so. But he was a strange, incomprehensible man.
I never could understand him. Well, judge of my
astonishment when his half-sister called on me today
and insisted upon my producing her brother's
will. I could not tell her a lie when she asked me
point-blank if I had the document in my possession."
I suppose there is no reasonable room for doubt
that M'Cormick is no more."

None now, I should say. I am quite puzzled
how I ought to act. I promised M'Cormick I would
not let anyone see his will. He may possibly, not
probably I own, be still alive ; and if so, I have no
right to break my promise to him. I thought I
would ask some one's advice, and you came into the
office just as I had arrived at that determination.
Two heads, you know, are better than one."

I confess I am in a puzzle what to say. I suppose
it would be best to give up the will to Mrs
M'Cormick. She is the proper person to decide
whether its contents should be made known at
present or not. At least that is my opinion."

I think that is an admirable suggestion, Dalton."

The last strains of the " Coulin " had now died
away. Turning towards Helen, her uncle said, — " You
might sing it for us now, dear — that is, if Captain
Dalton is not tired of it."

Tired of it ! " exclaimed Dalton. " Certainly not.
Do, please. Miss Cadogan, sing it. It is such a longtime
since I ever heard any music. I haven't heard
the ' Coulin ' for — well, for more years than I should
like to mention."

Helen, who had overheard some of the conversation
about the Water Hyiivph, experienced an unaccountable
depression while she had been playing.
The sadness of the melody usually had little effect
upon her — custom had made her callous to it. With
a smile, however, she nodded to Dalton, and took a
volume of songs from the music waggon at her side.

I thought I heard a tap at the door," said Butler,,
in an undertone, looking at Dalton.

So did I."

Butler rose, and advancing noiselessly across the
carpet, opened the door,

Helen's clear voice rang out, —

Though the last glimpse of Erin leith sorrow I
see," as the door was opened wide.

A servant appeared at the doorway, and said, " Mrs
M'Cormick, if you please, sir."

Susan, who had heard the words of the song, and
whose thoughts instantly flew back to the day she
had said good-bye to her husband in the cabin of
the Water Nyviph, tottered into the room.

Butler started forward and placed his arm round
Mrs M'Cormick. Almost immediately she recovered ^
a delicate pink flush stealing into her cheeks.

"Thank you, Mr Butler," she said. "I had no
right, I suppose, to tax my strength by such a
long walk."

Helen was now at her side, and led her to a
chair. Dalton, who had risen from his chair in
alarm as he beheld Mrs M'Cormick enter the
room, shook hands with her, and went back ta
his seat.

It was indeed very wrong of you," said Butler

^' to overtax your strength — I presume you have
walked from Bankside ? "

Yes," she smiled. " But don't make me feel uncomfortable
by reminding me of my misdeeds. I
am all right now. I was very anxious to see you,
Mr Butler ; and you know, I suppose, that I am
o^oing: out of town tomorrow."

Why did you not send for me ? "

I did not want to give you so much trouble.
I have been always too great a trouble to you,
I fear."

Butler shook his head.

Perhaps you will excuse me for saying ' Good
evening ? ' " said Dalton, standing up. " I suppose,"
-addressing himself to Susan, " I must bid you
good-bye, Mrs M'Cormick. We are not likely to
meet again."

Butler looked inquiringly at Mrs M'Cormick.

Please don't go. Captain Dalton," she said, a
little uneasily. " What I have to say to Mr Butler
will not occupy many minutes. I fear I have interrupted
him and you by coming in."

N — no. Not at all," stammered Butler.

Yes ; I know I did. Helen and I will run off

together for a few minutes, and let you finish your
conversation. Come, Helen," she said, rising and
placing her arm round Helen's waist.

We shall give you just ten minutes, uncle."

Very well," said Butler, opening the door. " How
ill that woman looks, Dalton," he frowned, coming-back
to his chair.

"Yes. I wonder could anything particular have
disturbed her mind to-day ? "

I cannot tell. Stop ! " he cried. " I know what
it is — at least I fancy I do."

No further news about her husband's ship ? "

No. I am sure that virago, Miss Walsh, has
been paying her a visit. I was on the point of
putting the question to that charmingly offensive
lady in the office to-day, but something drove it
out of my head. That must be it. No doubt
she has been tormenting Mrs M'Cormick about
the will."

You told me that M'Cormick assured you no
one knew of its existence ? "

So he said ; but he was such an absent-minded
man at times, and so fond of letting his tongue
run away with him, that he may have told his

sister. Besides, the will which I hold was drawn
up by somebody ; and, of course, whoever did draft
it knows its contents."

I am sure, then, the best thing for you to dois
to take legal advice upon the matter, and find
out some means of saving Mrs M'Cormick from
persecution."

I will do so tomorrow. Here are the ladies,"
he said, rising as a tap was heard at the door.

Mrs M'Cormick and Helen entered the room.

Well, uncle," inquired Helen, " have you both
said all you have to say to each other ? "

Not all ; but for the present we are finished."

Then, Captain Dalton, I'll ask you to accompany
me to the piano, and turn over some music
for me, while Mrs M'Cormick and my uncle have
a little chat. We are all determined to be brimful of
business and mysterious consultations this evening."

Dalton and Helen crossed to the other end of the
room. Mrs M'Cormick sat down near Butler. He
drew his chair close to hers.

Now, Captain Dalton, what shall I play for
you ? " asked Helen, stooping and turning over shine
music in the waggon.

"Anything you please. Only let it be lively this
time. I am quite low-spirited. That melancholy
Coulin ' has not died out of my ears yet."

Helen looked up at him, and smiled.

I wish uncle was not so fond of melancholy
airs," she said. Then, in an undertone, " And I
wish somebody would endeavour to silence Miss
Walsh, or at least discover some means for keeping
her away from Mrs M'Cormick. She has almost
worried her out of her wits."

Dalton drew his eyebrows together. Butler was
right in his surmise.

To-day ! "

Helen nodded ; and rising, said, —

Now, I think I have something that ought to
please you, although I know it is very wicked to
indulge in anything lively at such a time as this.
However, Mrs M'Cormick will know, I am sure, that
it isn't from want of sympathy," and, seating herself
ext the piano, she commenced to play an arrangement
of Irish dance music.

Dalton, with half-averted glance, was looking at
Susan, and wondering what she had to say to the
ship broker. He could see they were both deeply

interested in their conversation. He had forgotten
his duties at the piano, when Helen's " Turn over,
please," caused him to start.

I am afraid," murmured Helen, as he fumbled
over the leaves of the music, " you take more interest
in somebody than in my poor music."

He coloured and stammered an apology. In a few
moments he found himself again glancing towards.
Susan. What was she handing Butler ? It must be
yes, it was — the very letter which he had given to
her the day he arrived in Sloughford. Butler was
placing it in his pocket without reading it. No'
doubt the letter contained something which required
his consideration.

The music had now ceased. Mrs M'Cormick turned
and said, —

I am afraid I have been very rude, Helen ; and I
am afraid I am going to be still more rude to Captain
Dalton, for I am going to take you away from the
piano. I must get home at once."

Dalton felt a thrill of delight at the prospect of
escorting Susan to Woodbine Cottage. Already an
ill-defined project to stand with Susan on the bridge,
in the place where they had kissed each other years

affo, and to discover if her heart was still his own,
floated through his mind.

May I have the pleasure of seeing you home, Mrs
M'Cormick ? " he said shyly.

No, no," she replied. " I don't want any escort.
Thank you very much, Captain Dalton ; but really I
would prefer to go home alone. You see I am determined
to be rude this evening."

Go home alone ! " said Butler, rising from his
chair. "Indeed, you shall do nothing of the sort.
Come, Helen, get on your things."

Really, Mr Butler," began Susan.

The question admits of no argument," he interrupted,
with a wave of his hand. " Helen and I
require a walk badly ; it is purely a piece of selfishness
on our part."

Be it so then. It is too bad of me to be such
a trouble to you."

Now, you ladies had better be off to your room.
You will come over to Bankside with us, Dalton,
won't you ? "

A slight flush came into Susan's cheeks as the
ship broker asked the question. She had an instinctive
dread of crossing the bridge in company
VOL. I. o

with her old lover, even if he and she were not
alone.

Dalton stammered an apology. He thought he had
better get back to his ship ; it had just occurred to
him that he had some accounts to go through.

Nonsense ! " said Butler. " You will come, of
course, I want most particularly to have a chat with

you."

IN WHICH THE SHIPBROKER RELATES A STORY.

After, leaving the house, Helen and Susan
went forward, arm in arm, followed •by-
Butler and Dalton.

For some time the ship broker was silent ; then, turning
to his companion, he said, somewhat abruptly, —

Will you promise not to be offended with me if I
speak to you on a subject which concerns you very
closely, and which you may think should not concern
me in the least ? "

Dalton guessed what the subject was, and in a
nervous, agitated manner answered, —

I promise you not to be offended at anything you
may say. I know well you would not speak to me
unless you had an excellent reason for doing so."

Thank you. I fear I am going to tread on very

delicate ground, and there is nothing I abhor more
than meddling in matters which do not concern me ;:
but in this case I feel I have a duty to perform."

Please, then, don't hesitate to speak to me."

Well, to be quite candid with you, I fancy you
remember only too well the relations which long ago
existed between you and Susan M'Cormick. Don't
answer me if you don't wish to do so. If you can
tell me you look upon her merely as a friend, that
love has no place in your regard for her, then I need
not trouble you by making any further reference to
the subject, and can only say I am sorry for what I
have said."

Dalton paused. He could not exactly understand
what Butler meant by questioning him about his
love for Susan. Could Butler have learned any
further news about M'Cormick ? He was almost
afraid to ask. Should he be perfectly candid with
the ship broker ? What could he gain by being
uncandid ?

I cannot truthfully declare that love has no place
in my regard for Mrs M'Cormick," he said, in a low
tone. Then lifting his head, and speaking almost
defiantly, " I cannot help myself. I know it i&

foolish — wicked, if you will, but I love her. She is
never out of my thoughts. You cannot convince me
more strongly than I can convince myself of the folly
and the danger of my passion ; but I shall take care
it brings injury to no one except myself."

You are excited now, Dalton ; I did not mean to
excite you. I want you to listen to me calmly."

It is very silly of me," said Dalton apologetically,
^' to play the part of broken-hearted lover to you."

I do not see anything silly in your admission ; I
see only the danger that may result."

How ? You surely do not think I would tell Mrs
M'Cormick what I have told you now ? "

You may be sorely tempted. Don't be frightened,
Dalton ; I am not going to preach you a sermon."

You misjudge me altogether."

No. You misjudge yourself. Besides, there is
another side to the question."

What is the other side ? "

Ah ! " said Butler, shaking his head, " I cannot
sive the other side of the question ; I only draw my
own conclusions ; and we are all liable to make
mistakes."

Dalton was mystified. The ship broker and he had

now reached the bridge gate. Helen and Susan were
standing at the gate.

We thought we had lost you altogether," said the
former. " Mrs M'Cormick insists that we have come
quite far enough with her, and wants us to turn back."

Nonsense," said Butler. " Captain Dalton and I
are enjoying the walk immensely, and it would be
quite a shame if Mrs M'Cormick were to send us back
now. Can't you and she find anything to talk about,,
Helen ? "

Oh, indeed we can, uncle. I suppose the fact is
she is worried by my chatter."

To prove distinctly that I am not, I shall now
insist upon your accompanying me to the very door
of my house, and then I shall inveigle you inside, aa
punishment for your persistency. If the walk up
the hill causes you to feel worn out tomorrow you
will have only yourself to blame, Helen."

The two women walked briskly forward, Butler
and Dalton following slowly.

I am delighted to see Mrs M'Cormick in better
spirits. There was quite a colour in her cheeks as
she spoke," said the shipbroker.

Yes," said Dalton, a little sadly.

He had noticed that Susan had not once looked in
his direction as they stood at the gate.

Now, Dalton, I must tell you what I wished to
say to you to-night. You are in love with Mrs M'Cor-
mick. Let it be granted that she is not aware o£ the
fact, and that you will leave Sloughford shortly without
uttering one word of love in her presence. But
you do not know the measure of your own strength
or your own weakness. You will, I am sure, do all
in your power to act rightly, to live down the love
which possesses you. You will go away from Sloiigh-
ford, perhaps, with the determination of never coming
back to it. But remember you made up your mind
long ago to forget her, and you found yourself unable
to do so. After many years, you acknowledge you
admire her as much as ever."

As much ! A thousand times more, if that were
possible."

Very well. The same thing will happen again.
You will find an attraction here which drags you
irresistibly to her side, and then, if she listens to
you—"

If she only would."

There ! You see I told you I knew the strength

and weakness of your character better than you did
yourself."

I did not mean what I said just now. I would
not dare to talk of love to her."

"I don't know. I should not care to answer for
you. Perhaps it may seem strange to you that I
should speak to you as I have spoken to-night, but I
know — believe me when I say I know — the terrible
danger of your position and hers, should both of you
ever forget your duty. I dread what might possibly
happen, more than words could tell. Listen to me.
I will tell you a story — I can vouch for the truth of
every word of it, strange and improbable as it may
appear. When you hear it, you will see the danger
in a clearer light than you have ever seen it before,
and you will know why I am so much in earnest tonight."


There was a wild, haggard expression on Butler's
face, which impressed Dalton even more than the
earnestness of the ship broker's speech. Although
the night air was cool, large drops of sweat trickled
down Butler's cheeks. He lifted his hat, and taking
his handkerchief from his pocket, wiped his brow.

You are distressing yourself, Mr Butler," said

Dalton. "It is too bad that I should be the cause
of so much trouble to you."

A tender smile flitted across Butler's face.

I am afraid I am thinking more of Susan than
of you. I have learned to look upon her almost asa
daughter. Now for my story. A friend of mine, a
young man — younger than you, Dalton — lived within
easy distance of a large seaport — not Sloughford, I
may tell you. He was fond of ships, and was in the
habit of visiting the seaport as often as he conveniently
could. His father was at the time moderately
wealthy, and had a strong desire that his son should
make a good match. The son was, I am afraid, rather
A harum-scarum young fellow, and his father, who
was stern and reserved, had often warned him that
he would disown him if he ever formed a connection
without obtaining his consent. During one of the
young man's visits to the seaport which I spoke of
he fell in love at first sight — such things do happen, I
believe — with a very pretty girl. He learned that
the girl had married, about a twelvemonth previously,
the master of a ship trading out of the port. Her
husband was a brute — a coarse, unsympathetic, jealous
man, who bullied and beat her before they had

been married two months. Shortly before my friend
saw this young girl for the first time, a rigour reached
the port that the husband's ship had foundered at sea,
and that all hands had perished. The rumour was
afterwards confirmed ; but just as in the case of the
Water Nymph, there was no absolute proof that the
crew had gone down with the ship. To cut the matter
short, my friend and the supposed widow fell mutually
in love. The former knew that his father would
not for a moment listen to his son's forming a connection
with the widow of a merchant captain. The
young people were both very fond and very foolish,
and decided upon living together secretly, the young
man promising, and fully intending, to marry the
woman as soon as positive proof could be obtained
of the loss of her husband. The great dread which
the woman experienced was the dread that her husband
might one day return to claim her, and if he
heard that she had been unfaithful, she had no doubt
he would stop short at nothing — not even murder itself.
However, her lover, with great difficulty, succeeded
in inducing her to go away with him. She
had no relatives in the seaport, and she told those
who knew her that she intended living with some

friends in another part of the country. She quitted
the seaport, leaving behind her no suspicion of her
real intentions. Some time afterwards a son was
born, and when the boy was about two years of
age, a strange and startling rumour reached the
young people's ears — "

The husband was alive ! " interrupted Dalton
excitedly.

"Yes. Fortunately the connection has been kept
a strict secret. My friend's father never suspected
his son had disobeyed him, and the people in the
seaport had almost forgotten the existence of the
woman. The husband was alive, and was on his
way back to the seaport. My friend was almost
frantic with despair. He knew he had no claim
to another man's wife, and the woman's fears of
violence on her husband's part came back to her
with fourfold strength. He would follow her to
whatever part of the earth she might fly. There
was nothing for it but to go back to the seaport
to await her husband's coming. She did so ; it
was like going back to the grave. But what could
she do ? what could her lover do ? She succeeded
in allaying her husband's suspicions. He did suspect

something had gone wrong during his absence,
but he was, after a fashion, fond of his wife —
about the only good quality in his coarse nature —
and he was, I suppose, anxious to deceive himself
into the belief that the account which she gave
of herself was correct. At all events, husband and
wife are still, I believe, living together. My friend
never saw the woman he loved with all his heart
and soul since the day they parted years and years
ago. Their son does not know who his parents
are. My friend's life has been utterly spoiled.
He is — I have it from his own lips — as much in
love to-day with the woman he would have married,
as he was when they first met. The man
he is getting old and grey now — dare not tell
the secret to his own son. If he did so, the son
might possibly let the secret slip from him. And
one of the greatest troubles the father has to
endure is to see his son drifting into frivolous,
perhaps evil ways, without being able to hold out
the strong arm of a parent, and snatch him back.
Is not that a strange and a dreadful story of spoilt
lives, Dalton ? "

It seems almost incredible."

I told you I could vouch for the truth of every
word of it."

And is the secret known to no one except your
friend and the woman he loved, and to yourself ? "

To those alone. Now, do you wonder, Dalton,
that I have a horror of anything occurring between
you and Susan M'Cormick ? "

"I do not indeed," cried Dalton, seizing Butler's
hand, " and I shall take warning. Thank you, my
best of friends, for your story."

A heavy tear-drop fell on Dalton's hand. He
looked swiftly at the ship broker's face. The tears
were coursing down his cheeks.

IN WHICH DALTON BREAKS A GOOD RESOLUTION.

HE two men walked on in silence. At
first Dalton was under the impression
that the ship broker's story was an invention
— a forecast of what might happen should
he forget the peculiar position which Susan held —
neither a wife nor a widow. It was almost incredible
that a case bearing such a strong resemblance
to his own should have occurred within the
experience of his friend. But the shipbroker's
earnestness, and the pathos which found its way
into his voice as he proceeded with his narrative,
compelled the young man to believe he was listening
to a true tale. It was all very strange. What
connection could Butler have with the story ? The
hero of it must be a very dear friend, or the ship-broker

would not have been so deeply affected by
the recital. Could it be that Butler was the hero
of his own story ?

They were now near the garden gate of Woodbine
Cottage. The elder man suddenly halted,
and, turning towards the younger man, said, —

I don't want you to brood too much over what
I have told you. Forget the story itself, if you
-can ; but bear the moral attached to it in your
memory."

Before Dalton could make any reply, both men
heard behind them the sound of rapidly approaching
footsteps and the rustle of a dress. In a
moment Helen was at her uncle's side.

You both deserve a scolding," she said. " Both
Susan and I have been waiting for you at the gate
for fully five minutes. She has sent me to fetch
you in at once. And could you guess who is in
the house, uncle ? "

I am not very good at guessing," smiled Butler
Then, with a frown, " I hope it is not Miss
Walsh."

No, thank goodness ! It is Mr Madden."

Arthur ! " cried Butler, with an uneasy start.

^' What brings him here at such an hour, I
wonder ? "

I don't know, uncle. I suppose he wished to-say
good-bye to Susan. But I hope you are not
going to stand here any longer. The air is growing
chilly."

Just a moment, dear. Tell Mrs M'Cormick we
shall come directly."

Very well, uncle. I shall depend on Captain
Dalton to make you keep your word. Uncle sometimes
grows so fond of studying the stars that it
is impossible to move him."

"Unfortunately, Miss Cadogan," smiled Dalton,.
there are no stars to study to night. Perhaps
we shall have a peep at them by-and-by. I think
it will rain very shortly."

Yes," said Butler, gazing skywards, " we shall
have rain — heavy rain, too, I fear. You had better
get back to the house at once, Helen."

When Helen left them, Butler said, —

I wonder what could bring Arthur here."

Madden ! How can I tell ? "

Unintentionally, he spoke a little sharply. He had
felt a pang of jealousy, which he was trying in vain to-convince

himself was wholly unjustifiable and silly.
Could it be possible that Butler's good-looking clerk
was in love with Susan ? and might it not be
that Susan was in love with him ? Absurd ! Stilly
try as he might to banish it, a jealous doubt
clung to him. Madden was a devil-may-care fellow,
who would push his suit with headlong recklessness
: and was it not strange that for the second
time he found Butler's clerk at Woodbine Cottage ?
Could it be possible that Susan was encouraging
his visits ? He must not harbour such • a
thought.

Disgusted with himself, and kicking the ground
impatiently, he turned towards Butler, with the
intention of offering an apology for the ill-tempered
manner in which he had spoken. The
ship broker had evidently forgotten he was not
alone.

With his head thrown slightly back, he stood
gazing at the sky, and Dalton observed that his lips
were trembling, as if he were trying to repress some
violent emotion.

The younger man somehow dreaded to disturb the
reveries of the elder man. Melancholy is as often.

VOL. I. P

as contagious as laughter, and Dalton felt terribly
depressed as he glanced in silence at his friend. Then
he bent his head slightly and stared straight in front
of him.

Over the roofs of the Bankside stores could
be seen a narrow, lurid belt of river at the
Sloughford side. The black hulls of the ships
which lined the quays stood out like silhouettes
against the lower part of the town, and through
the spars and rigging the lights on the quay
struggled feebly. Over the spars the lights on the
hillside twinkled ; and over the town hung a luminous
haze.

Slowly Dalton turned round until he faced
the north. Then the dim outline of the bridge
arrested his wandering gaze, and, full of bitter
thoughts, he lifted his eyes from the bridge.
The clouds were sluggish and low-lying ; but in
the north-west, behind Yellow Hill, a faint, pale
light lit up the sky. Again his eyes sought the
bridge, and in a moment he addressed Butler abruptly,—


"I think we had better get indoors, Mr Butler.
There is a break in the sky on the north-west. The

wind is going to shift into that quarter directly, and
we shall have heavy rain."

He had scarcely spoken when the raindrops came
pattering to the ground. Both men hurried towards
the house.

When they entered they found Madden had been
doing his best to amuse the ladies. Consciously
or unconsciously, Madden never entered into eve
minutes' conversation without relating some anecdote,
more or less funny, concerning his own
savings or doings. He had just been telling
some stories — invented for the occasion — about
Nixon.

Susan had at first tacitly declined to enjoy Mad den's
anecdotes. The mention of the Greenback distressed
her, and she could not understand the want of taste
which Butler's clerk exhibited in introducing any reference
to the New Brunswicker. Then she saw that
he had actually forgotten the connection between the
Greenback and her affairs, and how could she blame
him for his forgetfulness ? Moreover, it was impossible
to resist Madden when he had once made up
his mind to be amusing, and Mrs M'Cormick soon
though she hated herself for doing so — joined in

Helen's and Madden's laughter, for Madden always-laughed
loudest at his own jokes.

Dalton was surprised to see that a great change
had taken place in Susan's manner and appearance ;
and though her laughter was faint, and had a hollow
ring, it jarred upon his ears. She looked utterly
unlike the pale-faced woman who had startled him
by her entrance into Butler's drawing-room a short
time previously. Could the change be owing to
Madden's presence ?

Butler shook Madden's hand, and said, —

Well, Arthur, what brings you this way tonight
? "

I was over at Bankside, sir, about that Sunderland
brig, and I thought as I was so near Woodbine
Cottage I ought to run up and say ' Good-bye ''
to Mrs M'Cormick."

It struck Dalton that it was not a little strange
the ship broker should have greeted his clerk, whom
he met almost every day in the year, with a handshake
; but he put the action down to Butler's good-nature
— a desire on his part to put Madden quite at
his ease.

Susan and Helen had moved to the window, and

now sat listening to the heavy patter of the rain against
the glass. The men stood together near the fireplace,
and after some desultory conversation, Dalton rose
and went towards the window. The blinds were up,
and Mrs M'Cormick had drawn back the curtains.
Looking at the sky, Dalton, addressing himself to
Susan, said, — "I think the rain has almost ceased.
The nor-wester is chasing the clouds helter-skelter
before it. What do you say if we go outside and
enjoy the air and the view ? " And lowering his
voice, " I fancy, Miss Cadogan, your uncle and Mr
Madden have something to say to each other alSout
business."

The ladies rose, and Dalton, raising his voice
slightly, said, — "Mr Butler, we three are going into
the garden to have a peep at the night. You
will excuse us, won't you ? The proposal is mine,
so I have taken it upon myself to make the
apology."

When Dalton opened the hall door, he found the
rain had not quite ceased.

I am afraid I have been too rash," he smiled
"but the shower will soon be over. How refreshing
the air here is ! "

Helen proposed that they should stand in the
porch until the rain had cleared off, and Susan made
no objection ; so they stood looking at the opposite
side of the river almost in silence.

When Butler found himself alone with Madden,,
he began, —

"I am so sorry we missed the bank this afternoon.
I have always a morbid fear of leaving
money in the office at night."

"Don't trouble your head about it, sir. What
could happen to it ? "

"Who was the last in the office this evening
? "

Madden started, and answered in a hesitating
manner, —

"I was — at least," with a short, uneasy laugh,,
I locked the place up under the impression I was"'

Sure you locked the safe ? "

Quite sure, sir."

"I know it is a trifle absurd on my part to
feel uneasy about that money, but it is the first
time I have ever left a large sum in the office
at night."

"I wish you wouldn't trouble about it. Oh, I

had almost forgotten to tell you, sir. It is easy to
account now for the delay about discharging the
Atalanta's cargo. There is a strange rumour afloat
this evening about Sutcliffe."

What is it ? "

"They say he has disappeared."

Disappeared ? "

"Well, absconded is the better word, perhaps."

"You astonish me. Is there any reason alleged
? "

"It is supposed he found himself in difficulties,
and didn't care to face his creditors. But I fancy
that there is something more than mere bankruptcy
at the bottom of it."

"This won't be very good news for the captain
of the Atalanta. How does he stand with
Sutcliff*e?"

"I think he has drawn the greater part of his
freight already, and he ought to have sufficient
cargo still on board to cover the remainder. Perhaps
we had better ask him about it."

"Don't upset him to-night, Arthur. He is not
in very good spirits, I fancy. We can tell him in
the morning. Nothing will be gained by disturbing

Ms mind now. You're quite sure the money was
all right in the safe when you locked up ? "

Quite sure, sir."

"By Jove! it is much later than I thought. Has
the rain cleared off, Arthur ? "

Madden rose and went to the window.

"Yes, I think the rain has ceased. The wind is
very high — quite a little gale ! "

I had better call Helen, and tell her we must
he starting for home immediately."

He rose from his chair, and, advancing towards
the open door of the room, he called his niece's
name.

I suppose you are coming with us, Arthur ? "

Yes, sir."

Helen now entered the room. She was mischievously
anxious to leave Mrs M'Cormick and
Dal ton alone for a few minutes, and her uncle's
summons afforded her the opportunity she had
been seeking. She saw that Susan's high spirits
had again deserted her, and she was convinced her
friend's melancholy had something to do with
Dalton's departure — the Atalanta would be sailing
from Sloughford in about a week, and it was

not likely that Susan and her old lover would
meet again. Therefore, when she entered the room
she determined to find some pretext for making
a short delay there in company with her uncle
and Madden.

For some moments after Helen left them, neither
Dalton nor Mrs M'Cormick seemed inclined to talk.
Then, feeling that the silence was awkward, Dalton
spoke. His voice was low and full of sadness.

I suppose I shall not see you again for a longtime.
I wonder shall I ever see you again ? "

How can I tell ? Life is full of changes."

So wrapt was he in his own melancholy, that
he had not observed the alteration in Susan's voice
and manner since she had come out into the
porch ; nor could he see, in the dim light, that
her cheeks were no longer bright, her dark eyes
dull and lustreless.

I am glad to find you in good spirits on this
the last night I may see you for years and years ;
and yet I am not altogether glad. There is a good
deal of selfishness in my nature, I fear. Mr Madden
seems to amuse you."

Sometimes," she sighed. " I have been in a

strangely fickle mood to-day, and why I cannot-tell,
except it is that the prospect of a change
from these dull walls behind us has lifted a weight
from my heart. This morning I felt that nothing
on earth could drive away my gloomy thoughts ^
but I am always either unreasonably happy or
unreasonably miserable."

And in which mood are you at this moment,
may I ask ? "

The melancholy mood. Oh ! I am growing
old and irritable, I suppose. But why should I
trouble you about my tantrums ? Let us find
some more interesting subjects for conversation
the weather, for instance," she added, with a
faint laugh.

He looked at her in a startled way. Yes, she
was changed. What could have caused the
change ?

"It is quite fine now," he said gently, holding
out his hand and gazing at the sky. " Let us
walk as far as the gate. The freshness of the air
will revive you."

They stepped out of the porch and walked down
the garden path.

I am a regular weather - glass myself," said
Dalton, endeavouring to divert Susan from introspection.
"Until the clouds were chased from the
sky by this glorious breeze, I was as depressed asa
man could wish to be; now I feel quite boyish
How I love a good nor-wester ! It has blown years
out of my life to-night."

Mrs M'Cormick was silent. Her thoughts
were gradually wandering back to the olden
time.

I can scarcely realise," continued Dalton, in a
tender tone, " that I am about to say good-bye to
you. Why must it be always good-bye ? "

He had forgotten the present ; once more he was
with the past; and he was addressing the
woman at his side as if nothing had occurred
to disturb the course of the old love, as if
the impassable barrier of her marriage had never
been raised. She felt there was some strange change
in his voice and manner, and she trembled
violently.

How chilly it has grown ! " she said, shrugging
her shoulders. " We must return to the house at
once." She spoke in as cold and as quiet a tone

o£ voice as she could command. " What will my
guests think of me for having neglected them ? It
is very stupid of me."

She turned to walk back to the house.

Dalton swiftly caught her hands.

Susie ! Susie ! " he cried. " Is this to be our
good-bye ? Our parting years ago would have been
a cold one but for you, my love, my love. Weare
going to part again, perhaps for ever. Have
you nothing to say to me — no word I can carry
with me ? "

I do not understand you. Let us go back.
You forget."

She did not withdraw her hands ; nor could she
tell why she allowed them to remain clasped in
his. She felt completely dazed. All she knew was
that his eyes were looking into hers with a wild,
tender, wistful gaze, and that the old love, for years
a slumbering fire, had burst into flame within her.
She tried to collect her thoughts, to rush madly
away from the danger; but she could not utter a
word, and her limbs were powerless. He felt her
hands trembling violently within his own, and he
saw that her cheeks were deadly white, that her

bosom heaved convulsively. Scarcely knowing what
he did, he seized her in his arms and kissed her
lips passionately.

His kisses sent the blood into her cheeks and
recalled her wandering senses. With a quick, angry
movement she freed herself from his embrace.

At that moment Butler's figure stood out in the
porch.

A Burglary.

'UTLEE's office was opened every morning
at eight o'clock by Foxy Ned. At
nine Madden and Ryan were expected
to be at their respective desks. Butler usually
arrived a little before ten o'clock.

On the night of his visit to Woodbine Cottage
the shipowner had been quite restless. A sum of
money, about a hundred and forty pounds in gold,
had been placed in his hands by the master of a
ship after bank hours, and was lying in the office
safe. As he had declared to Madden, he entertained
a morbid fear of leaving money in the office at night.
It sometimes had happened that he had received
large sums in the evening, and it had always been
his habit to take the money to his dwelling-house;

but on this occasion Madden had pooh-poohed the
notion of there being any danger in leaving money
in the office, and Butler had decided to leave the
gold in the safe.

The next morning he rose early, and without disturbing
his household he left Prince's Street about
half-past seven, and soon found himself standing
outside his office door. With a sigh of relief he
took a door-key from his pocket and put it into
the keyhole. As he did so the door opened slightly.
Astonished and alarmed — he knew he had not
turned the key in the lock — he pushed the door
open and entered the passage. He stooped and
examined the lock. There appeared to be nothing
the matter with it. " How very stupid of Arthur,"
he thought, " to leave the door unlocked ! It gave
me quite a fright. He shall have a sound railing
for his neoflio-ence."

He walked up the passage, and as his eyes grew
more accustomed to the dim light in the passage,
he saw that the back door was slightly open. He
also noticed that the doors of the two offices, usually
closed at night, were wide open. He advanced hastily
towards the end of the passage, and almost with the

same glance saw the position o£ affairs in Madden's
office and in Ryan's.

The floors were littered with papers and books.
Desks were thrown open and drawers were scattered
about in every direction.

He entered Madden's office. There were no
shutters to the windows in either office. A yellow
linen blind which admitted the daylight was drawn
down every evening, and the windows were protected
on the outside by horizontal iron bars. There
was sufficient light to see plainly what had happened
during the night. The door of the safe had been
forced open, and its contents were scattered on
the floor. The two interior drawers of the safe
were lying on the floor, bottom upwards ; one drawer
had held the gold ; in the other M'Cormick's tin box
had been placed.

Fearful lest some one might still be lurking on
the premises he quickly drew up the window-blind;
the dim yellow light was changed to a
bright white light, which found its way into every
nook and cranny in the office. He then crossed
the passage and drew up the blind in Ryan's
office. Here the litter and confusion were greater

than in Madden's office. Butler had to walk
almost ankle deep in papers and books in order
to reach the window. After drawing up the blind
he saw that some o£ the upturned drawers on
the ground had been completely smashed. " The
thieves lost their temper here, I suppose," he muttered,
"and finding nothing worth stealing, vented
their displeasure on my unoffending property." He
had no doubt about the gold; he was quite convinced
it had been the object of the burglary.
Nevertheless he returned to Madden's office and
turned up the iron drawer in which the money had
been deposited. As he expected, the gold was gone.
His eye now caught, in a distant corner of the office,
the glitter of the tin box which held M'Cormick's
will. He picked his way leisurely through the
litter on the floor and picked up the case.

An expression of alarm came into his face. The
padlock had been opened, and the case was empty.

For almost a minute he stood motionless. Then
with a smile he walked to the safe, and placing M'Cor-
mick's case on the top of the safe, he reflected : —

How stupid of me to be so much alarmed ! No

doubt the will is somewhere on the ground. Why
VOL. I. Q

should a burglar trouble his head about a piece of
parchment ? I must have a search for it immediately."

He walked out of the office, locking the door after
him, and advanced down the passage. As he came to
the front door a man, entering the office hurriedly,
stumbled against him.

Beg pardon, sir," said Foxy Ned, astonished to
find his master in the office at such an hour. " I'm a
trifle behind time, I know ; but it won't occur again,
sir ; it won't occur again. The fact is — "

Go round at once to the Prince's Street Police
Barracks, and fetch a constable here."

A constable, sir ! " cried Ned, in alarm. " You
wrong me, sir. There was never a man served you
more faithful and honest all these years than my own
self, Mr Butler. I hope you don't believe I'd do a
dirty turn against you, sir."

Ned's mind was, and had been for some days,
wholly occupied in the concoction of a small swindle,
and he was unable to divest himself of the notion
that the ship broker could see into the innermost
workings of his brain.

I don't quite understand you, Ned," said Butler,
with a quiet smile ; " unless it is that you are suffering

from a guilty conscience. The office has been broken
into during the night."

Broken into, sir ! Glory be to heaven ! you don't
say so ! Broken into ! "

In his astonishment he forgot the respect he owed
to his employer, and he rushed past him into the
office. Butler saw him dart into Eyan's office, and ina
few moments Ned was again at the front door, his
face the picture of surprise and vexation.

Shocking, sir ! Shocking ! " he cried. " I'll run
round to the barracks this minute. Broken into I
There's no mistake about it, sir ; it must have been
a desperate gang that did it — a desperate, bloodthirsty
gang."

Don't stand chattering there. Be off at once, like
a good man."

Ned hobbled away, breaking into a gentle trot ashe
advanced. The disastrous nature of the burglary
had come home to him with peculiar force. In a disused
cupboard in Ryan's office Ned usually kept a
certain black bottle, and when he went into the
office he found the bottle on the floor — empty.

Butler went back to Madden's office and commenced
the search for the will. He had not been

many minutes so engaged when Foxy Ned returned,
in company with a stout, red-faced sergeant of police.

I brought the sergeant himself, sir," said Ned
breathlessly. " If there's a man in the country that
can ferret out a thief or a blackguard, the sergeant is
that man. He's the grandest — "

That will do, Ned. Go out and stand at the door
until I have a few words privately with your friend."

Butler then informed the policeman, who made
entries in his note-book of all the salient facts, what
he knew concerning the condition of affairs in the
office the previous evening, and the condition of them
when he had entered the premises at half-past seven
o'clock. So full were his thoughts of the will that he
forgot to make any mention of the gold which had
been in the safe.

"But what could be the object of breaking
into a place like this ? " asked the policeman. " It
is well known you don't keep money here."

But there was money here last night."

Much ? "

A hundred and forty pounds in gold, and some
loose silver in the cash-box — two or three pounds,
I think."

Phew ! " whistled the sergeant. " That alters
the view o£ the case. Let us first discover how
the entry was effected. The motive is plain enough
now."

The two men went into the passage.

Back door forced in," said the sergeant, examining
the door. " Lock smashed, and bolt filed through.
It was the bolt that the difficulty was with," looking
at Butler ; " the lock wasn't worth three-halfpence.
"■ Entry effected through the backyard from the
outside,' making an entry in his notebook. No
doubt about that, I think."

How on earth could the entry be effected from
the inside ? " asked Butler.

I don't know, I'm sure," replied the sergeant,
with a cunning twinkle in his eyes.

Butler was puzzled. " Stupid fellow ! " he thought.

Now, sir," said the sergeant, " let us have a
look at the front door. No force used here evidently,"
he observed, stooping down and examining
the lock and the iron staple in the jamb of the
door, into which the lock-bolt fitted. " Lend me
your key, Mr Butler."

The ship broker took the key from his pocket,

and the sergeant put it into the keyhole, and, turning
the key, shot out the bolt. Giving the bolt
a push with the palm of his hand, he forced the bolt-easily
back. " No difficulty about this lock either.
You see a child could have forced it. Might I ask
sir, who was the last to leave the office last night
who locked it up ? "

My confidential clerk."

Mr Madden ? "

Yes."

"Ah!"

What's the matter, sergeant ? "

"Nothing, sir. Now let us see if we can find
any clue to the thieves. Was it commonly known
about this money in the safe ? "

"No. At least I am not aware that anyone
knew I had kept it in the office except my two
clerks."

Mr Madden and Mr Ryan ? "

Yes."

"Well, if you don't object, I'll make an examination
of Mr Madden's office with you."

"I wish you would, sergeant; and if you could
help me to discover a document which was taken

out of my safe, I promise you will not regret
having found it."

"All right, sir. Was the document a valuable
one — I mean could it by any plan be converted
into hard cash ? "

No. It was of no value in the sense you
mean, sergeant. What a dreadful litter the place
is in ! "

"Was the gold loose?"

No ; it was tied up in a small canvas bag. I
am not in so much trouble about the gold. That
can be replaced ; but the parchment cannot."

For upwards of half-an-hour the police-sergeant
-and Butler searched the floor for the missing document.
Butler could not tell what shape or size
the will was ; but he was confident the material
on which it was drafted was parchment. He knew
that nautical folk as a rule believed a document
was worthless from a legal point of view unless it
were drawn upon parchment. Therefore he desired
the policeman to confine his efforts to sorting out
from the medley of documents on the floor any
parchments he might meet. This simplified matters
considerably, and before nine o'clock Butler had

made up his mind the will had been stolen. There
were ten parchments on the desk — six certificates
of registry, three certificates of classification, and
the Bishop's certificate of competency.

Let us go into the other office now," said Butler.
Perhaps you had better have a look round there,
and then I suppose you will examine the yard at the
back before you make a report."

Yes ; I am very sorry our search has been unsuccessful,
sir. Might I ask you another question ?
How many people knew where this document you
have been looking for was locked up ? "

I am not aware that anyone alive, except myself,,
knew that case," pointing to M'Cormick's tin box,
was locked up in the safe. This," pointing with his
foot to an upturned iron drawer on the floor, " was
a private drawer of mine."

The very place, of course, anyone would naturally
conclude you would keep an important document."

Granted ; but I don't see what light that throws
upon your part of the business, which is, I presume
to catch the thieves."

I am not so sure of that."

How ? What do you mean ? "

Oh, nothing, sir. Had we not better examine the
other office ? "

When the two men entered Ryan's office, the quick
eye of the policeman caught sight of a small bundle
lying under the desk. Going down on his knees, he
drew the bundle out, and, slowly rising, he placed it
on the desk.

A burglar's kit ! " he cried, opening out what
seemed to the ship broker a small piece of carpet.
Look here, Mr Butler, isn't that beautiful ? I
haven't seen anything half so neat since I joined the
force."

The ship broker could not see any beauty in the
tools now laid out for his inspection. Indeed, one of
them, a long, heavy chisel, with a large gap in the
end of it, sent a thrill of horror through him.

Roll that thing up, sergeant."

The policeman tenderly wrapped up the collection
of bright skeleton keys and dull jemmies, and then his
spell of ecstasy was over. With a frown he said, —

This puts a new aspect on the case. Those tools

were never made in Sloughford. My suspicions are

all knocked on the head— unless," he 'added, as if to

himself, " the kit was left here as a blind."

VOL. I. ^

I don't understand you. What were those wonderful
suspicions of yours, sergeant ? "

Suspicions ! " exclaimed the policeman, with well-feigned
astonishment. " I have no suspicions — not
yet, at any rate."

But a moment ago you said you had."

A mistake, sir. Quite a mistake of mine if I did
say so."

Stupid man ! " reflected Butler again. " I wish
a less conceited member of the force had been sent
here."

It was now about a quarter after nine, and Foxy
Ned, who was standing outside the office door, saw
Madden and Ryan approaching leisurely arm-in-arm.
He ran to meet them.

Shocking work, Mr Arthur ! Shocking work, Mr
Michael ! " he exclaimed.

What is it ? " asked both men, standing still.

The office has been broken into. The peelers are
in the place. Such a mess you never saw."

Broken into ! How do you mean ? What do you
mean ? " cried Madden, his cheeks turning suddenly
white.

You'll see soon enough, sir. The back door

smashed open ; the front door broke open ; the safe
and everything in it thrown about the floor. The
master is inside himself, ready to tear his hair off;
and no wonder."

Let us hurry in, Madden. Don't stand there
listening to Ned's gabble. You see the governor was
right about not leaving money in the place."

Hold on a minute. Ned gave me such a devil of
a shock. I thought at first something might have
happened to the governor. Now," heaving a deep
sigh, " I am ready."

I expect you will find Ned has been drawing the
long bow a little," said Ryan, as the two men hurried
towards the office.

I hope — I mean, I think not. He hasn't the
imagination to invent a back and front door smashed
open, not to mention a safe thrown all over the floor."

END OF VOL. I.

Cotton AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

sr T/-/E
"ANCH<

•»

•/^ OF

Arms;" ETC.

f. -2,

L I B Really

OF THE

University

Of ILLINOIS

D759

V.2

VOL. Il

a

A NOVEL.

BY

THE AUTHOR OF

"anchor-watch yarns" etc.

Many ways meet in one town." — King Henry V.

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:

Wed & DOWNEY,

12 YORK STREET, CO VENT GARDEN

18 86.

[All Rights reserved.

part ille ^i^COrtA— (Continued).
CHAPTEE XL

Madman VERSUS BLUENOSE,

CHAPTEE XII.

IN WHICH CAPTAIN NIXON HAS SOME PLEASANT AND SOME
UNPLEASANT QUARTERS OF AN HOUR, .

CHAPTEE XIII.

IN WHICH SUSAN MAKES A CONFESSION, .

BY THE SEA,

I art tlxe athirl

IN DOUBT.
CHAPTEE I.

CHAPTEE II.

IN WHICH HELEN Unpack HER HEART, .

CHAPTEE III.

IN WHICH THE BISHOP APPEARS IN A NEW CHARACTER,

CHAPTEE IV.

IN WHICH MISS WALSH LANDS HER FISH, .

CHAPTEE V.

IN WHICH CAPTAIN NIXON FALLS INTO A TRAP, .

PACK














BITER BIT, .

FIAT JUSTITIA,

CONTENTS.
CHAPTEE VI.

CHAPTEE VII.

CHAPTEE VIII.

HOW DO YOU KNOW THAT ? " .

CHAPTEE IX.

MOSTLY RETROSPECTIVE, .

CHAPTEE X.

IN WHICH SOME OLD ACQUAINTANCES MEET,

CHAPTEE XL

A WEDDING AND A PROPOSAL,

CHAPTEE XII.

HOME SICKNESS,

CHAPTEE XIII.

IN WHICH A FLIGHT IS INTERRUPTED,

CHAPTEE XIV.

AN ESSAY IN POLYSYLLABLES,

CHAPTEE XV.

NEWS OF THE WATER NYMPH,

CHAPTEE XVI.

MORE UNPLEASANT NEWS, .

CHAPTEE XVII.

SKIPPERS AND SCANDAL, ,

CHAPTEE XVIII.

AN AVENGER,

CONCLUSION,

PAGE





















continued).

art t Ir e <^ £ 1 bird

continued).

Chapter XI.

Madman VERSUS BLUE-NOSE.

EXT forenoon Nixon stood on the poop of

his ship. He was quite satisfied with

the result of his first interview with the

landlady of the " Bold Dragoon." He had decidedly

created a f avoidable impression.

Altogether, the skipper felt in very good humour.

He had given the master of the tug-boat a false

return of his registered tonnage, upon which the
VOL. II. A

tonnage rates were chargeable. He was under the
impression the master of the hard-working little
paddle-boat would not trouble to inquire what the
Greenback's tonnage really was, and he felt a thrill
of pride and pleasure at having outwitted at least
one of the inhabitants of Sloughford.

After taking a short constitutional up and down the
poop, he approached the wheel, and leaning against it,
cigar in mouth, he began to think how he ought to
deal with the merchant's talisman, for the purpose
of tampering with the tally board. He had almost
made up his mind to bribe the talisman boldly, and
was about to walk to the main hatchway, when he
observed the tug which had helped his ship up the
river paddling swiftly towards him.

Hallo ! " he cried. " I wonder is this chap making
for me. Yes. Blowed if he ain't. What is he upto,
I wonder ? "

The tug-boat was now alongside, and her rope was
thrown aboard the Greenback and made fast.

The master of the tug, a ruddy - checked, repaired,
jolly-looking Manxman, measuring six feet
two in height, and forty - four inches round the
chest, jumped aboard Captain Moon's vessel, and

walked aft to Angus, who was now leaning with
one elbow on a spoke of the wheel.

Good morning, skipper," cried the Manxman, in a
loud, hearty manner.

Good morning, tug-boat," drawled Nixon. " Have
a weed ? "

Don't smoke — thank you all the same, captain. I
just gave you a look up, as I happened to have business
in this direction. I want to ask you not to
forget me when you are going down the river. You
may as well give me the job of towing you down, as
we got on so well together coming up."

"Certainly, tug-boat; certainly," replied Nixon, delighted
to find that his false return of tonnage had
not been discovered by the burly Manxman, and still
more delighted at the prospect of perpetrating another
little fraud on the outward journey. "Have
a drink, tug-boat ? Got some rare old rum in the
cabin."

Thank you very much again, captain ; but I'm not
inclined for drinking just now."

Won't drink ! don't smoke ! Have a chaw then.
Be sociable, man ! Put a plug of this into your jaw."

"The fact is, when I'm on business, captain, Fm

not much given to enjoying myself. I suppose you
know it's the rule of the port to square the outward
towage bill when you engage the tug. You see if
you pay me now, it will save you all further trouble ;
and you'll be busy enough getting things to rights
when you're going to sea, without having the bother
of settling a trifling account with me. Sometimes it
isn't easy to get hold of a tug when you want one
but if you hire me now and square up with me, I'll
guarantee to be ready for you at two hours' notice."

The master and owner of the Greenback bit a
section off his cigar, and, after chewing it to his
satisfaction, spat it in instalments on the deck. He
was ruminating.

"If," pondered Nixon, "this big, soft-looking coon
by any possibility smells a rat, and if I pays him
aforehand, he may play some trick on me."

Then the other side of the matter presented itself
to him. " If he does not smell a rat, which I takes it
is the right con-elusion, I'll have the satisfaction of
bamboozling him the second time. I can't reasonably
expect to find two different tug-boat skippers
that will swallow my hundred and twenty-two tons
for a hundred and fifty-two, so I'd best stick to the

old love and chance it." Could he be sure of his
man ? A careful inspection of this son of the Isle
of Man ought to satisfy him, for if Angus R. Nixon
wasn't a judge of character, he'd like to know who was.

Therefore, with half-closed eyes, he surveyed the
Manxman from the top of his cloth cap to the soles
of his huge sea-boots. Then Angus fastened his gaze
somewhat about the waistband of his vis-davis, and,
opening his eyes, slowly lifted them until they stared
full into those of the tug-boat skipper.

"Waal," said Captain Nixon, "I guess, stranger,
I rather like the cut of your jib. You're a neat
man, you are — seventeen stone, if you're an ounce.
There aunt no sharp corners about you nowhere, I calculate.
You can have the job. But, look here, won't
it be quite time enough to net your dollars when
your work is done ? — that's ship-shape and Boston
fashion, aunt it ? "

It would be right enough, of course, only you see,
captain, it's the custom of the port to pay your outward
towage when you hire the boat, and I would
only get into trouble all round if I broke rules. I
can call another day before your cargo is discharged,
and perhaps you'll have time to inquire then if I'm

telling you a lie, as you seem to think, about the
rules of the port. Good day, captain."

Stop ! " cried Captain Nixon. " Jee-hosophat, do
you think I'd believe my own mother if she swore you
was a liar ? No, sir. Have your money — make out
your bill ! "

The Manxman took a dirty-looking book from his
breast-pocket. Laying the book on the top of the
companion, he sharpened a stumpy pencil with his
clasp-knife. Then, closing his knife, he began to
make out his account.

How many tons do you register, captain ? I
ought to know, of course, but my memory is none of
the best."

One hundred and twenty-two."

One hundred and twenty-two," echoed the Manx-man,
entering that figure in his book. "A hundred
and twenty-two at sixpence is three pounds one
shilling."

Three pounds one shilling. Right you are. That's
it, aunt it ? " said Nixon, handing the money to the
skipper of the tug-boat.

Now, you infernal thief ! " cried the Manxman,
pocketing the coin, " pay me thirty shillings more at

once — fifteen shillings for the up-towage, and fifteen
for the down. If you don't, as sure as my name is
Bill King, I'll chuck you over the stern. One hundred
and fifty-two is your figure, my son."

Nixon's cigar fell from his fingers, and for a moment
he looked as if he had been stricken with paralysis.
However, he pulled himself together quickly,
and placed his right hand on the handle of his sheath-knife.


You impudent, ignorant, whisky-drinking skunk,,
how dare you try to come the bully over me ? Leave
my ship this instant, or, so help me, I'll make a
spread-eagle ' of you ! Now, you just do a hop-along
there in double quick time, or I'll whistle for
my crew."

Oh, don't think I'm in the least alarmed about
yourself or your sailors ! My own crew, and a few
others along with them, are just waiting for the word
from me to jump aboard and give you about as good a
licking as you deserve. I know I ought to have you
locked up for trying to come that trick over me ; but
it will hurt you a sight more to fork out that thirty
shillings. Best be quick about it. Blue Nose, for I
haven't much time to throw away on you."

Captain William King held out his enormous
hand, and Captain Angus R. Nixon, with a demoniacal
scowl, placed three half-sovereigns in the
extended palm.

Well, I'm obliged to you, Blue Nose, for having:
got to windward of you about engaging me for the
outward towage," chuckled Captain King, who had
been acting on information received privately from
Foxy Ned ; " but mind how you steer your craft
when I'm helping you down the river. Put two
men on the wheel. Blue Nose, and if I see any
tricks about your manner of steering, you may take
my word for it I'll cut your tow-rope without a word
of warning. Bye-bye, Blue Nose ! "

And, laughing so heartily that he could scarcely
get on board the tug, Captain King bade a temporary
good-bye to the Greenback.

The New Brunswicker went below and threw
himself on the bed in his state-room. After groaning
and swearing for about a quarter of an hour, he
sat up in bed and muttered, —

Such a cussed run of ill-luck ! Did anyone
ever hear of such a cussed run of ill-luck ? I feels,
I do, as if someone had just ripped the backbone

clean out of me. To be bested by a tarnation freshwater
son of a gun ! Did anyone ever hear of the
like ? If I weren't a man of strong principles I'd
dash my brains out with a marlinspike, I would.
Brains 1 It seems as if mine had got adrift, it does.
I'm too conscientious, I am. That's what it is. I
lets 'em play on me, I do. But I'll have my
revenge. I'll take it out agen my con-signed, I
will, with interest and assurance added. I'll have
no more soft-wandering with the cusses I meets
here. I'll just twist that old mummy who tallies
cargo for my con-signed round my fingers. There
won't be much trouble over that job, for he's about
the most doddering old idiot that ever made his
mark with a lump of chalk. If I can't twist him
body and soul like a piece of catgut, I'll go and
drive a donkey-engine for the remainder of my
natural life."

IN WHICH CAPTAIN NIXON HAS SOME PLEASANT AND
SOME UNPLEASANT Quarters OF AN HOUR.

HEN Nixon came on deck the morning
after his unpleasant interview with the
master of the tug-boat, he was both
astonished and alarmed to find that the talisman,,
with whom he had the previous day entered into
a little private arrangement, was not at his usual
post. In his place stood a keen-looking youngster
of about eighteen, with whom the master of the
Greenback at once decided it would be unwise to
tamper.

As the skipper approached the main hatchway,
the new talisman observed, —

Poor old Jim, captain ! He was taken bad last
night, and there's no known' when he'll come

round again. He was talking a dale in his wandering's
about the softness o£ your heart, captain ;
so I hopes you won't forget himself and his family
if you've a trifle to spare."

You just hold your jaw, youngster, and don't
speak to your betters until they ask you. That's
what you'll do, youngster."

Then the captain turned angrily away and sought
the neighbourhood of the wheel.

There's something in the air of this cussed
place that's dead agen' me," he groaned, " There,
I had the chance of doing a neat bit of brainwork,
and a tarnation half-starved idiot should go and
get drunk — for I guess that's near about the size
of it. 'Tis enough to make a man go and risk
his salvation by cussing and swearing all the days
of his life ; but Angus R. Nixon never yet said
die ! It might have been worse, too, when I
thinks on it. The old fool might have gone and
blabbed, and got me into trouble. Wonder will
I have a try with the new talisman ? . He's a
knowing shaver, he is, that youngster — just the
sort of chap I'd like to have a fair stand up fight
with, brain agen' brain."

Ere he had time to screw up his courage for
the brain struggle, he was startled by a loud, sharp
voice from the wharf alongside which the Green-hack
lay, —

Is Captain Nixon aboard ? "

Ay, ay, sir. Here he is, at your service, as large
as life," taking off his wide-awake and bowing profoundly.


I suppose you know who I am, captain ? "

Yes, sir ; that I do. You're the gentleman that
owns this cargo. That's about the size of it, aunt
it ? I've seed you only twice afore, but Angus R.
Nixon — that's me, Mr Mason — never forgets a face.
Won't you step on board, sir ? "

No, captain. I will not step on board ! "

You seems a kind of out o' sorts this morning,
you do, merchant. Hope you ain't got no fault to
find with me for bringing your fish here so smart ? "
this with an ironical smile.

No, captain. I have no fault to find with the
sailing powers of your vessel, but I want to tell
you here, in the presence of your crew and my own
men, that I consider you an unmitigated blackguard;
and further, that — "

By Jupiter ! " yelled Captain Nixon, producing
a long sheath-knife from his waistband, and flourishing
it in the air, " if you'll just step on board and
repeat your choice observations, I'll slit your tongue
for you like I'd slit — "

Oh, keep your bluster for the high seas. We
don't understand it here, I can assure you. I was
about to remark, when you so rudely interrupted
me, that if I hear you make any further attempts to
tamper with my men, I will do my best to introduce
you to the notice of a police officer."

Captain Nixon put the knife into its leather
sheath. The mention of the word " police " had
always a peculiar effect on his nervous organisation.

Remember, my fine fellow," continued the fishmonger,
" that I shall make no allowance to you
for short delivery. I have always been in the
habit of allowing a little licence in such matters ;
but if you deliver to me one quintal of fish or one
barrel of oil less than the quantity specified in your
bills of lading, I shall charge you with the deficiency.
And in the shape of advice — if advice is
any good to you, which I am rather inclined to
doubt — I would say, don't offer a post of confidence

to a stranger until you are perfectly certain you
know your man inside out."

With this parting thrust, which went straight
through the chinks of Nixon's armour, Mr Mason
retired from the wharf, and the master of the Greenback
went to his cabin, and was not seen on deck
again until dusk. Then, with well-washed face and
carefully-oiled locks, and clothed in the most clumsily-cut
suit of shiny black that ever came from the hands
of a tailor, he stepped ashore, bent on making a
complete conquest of Miss Julia Walsh.

When he walked into the " Bold Dragoon," he was
informed that the landlady was in the Nest, tidying
up the room for the evening. Nixon at once determined
to make the most of his opportunity, and he
lounged jauntily into the skippers' sanctum.

The landlady smiled pleasantly at her visitor, and
treated him to a warm hand-shake. After some
stereotyped remarks about the weather, she said, —

I may tell you. Captain Nixon, I look upon you
already as an old friend. I expect," with a gentle
cough, " I connect you in some way with the sad
news about the loss of my poor dear brother. As a
friend, I want to ask your advice now."

Glad to hear you say so. I look upon your good
feel£, Miss Julia, as something even nearer than a
friend, if you will pardon the observation."

The fact is, I have been badly, very badly treated
lately."

Show me the man or woman," interrupted Nixon
gallantly, "as would treat you badly, and I'll make
short work of 'em."

Thank you, captain ; but it's more with the intention
of asking your advice than your assistance
that I am going to trouble you with my little
grievances. You see," she sighed, " I am, I may say,
alone in the world ; and there is nothing so helpless
as an unprotected female."

"You needn't be long unprotected, if your mind
runs that way," smiled the skipper — "but business
is business. What's your trouble ? You can reckon
on me. I am as true as steel, I am ! "

Thank you again, captain. This is my trouble
now. My poor brother left his will in charge of
Butler, your agent here. I know I am handsomely
provided for ; but Butler won't give up the will."

Won't give it up ! "

"Well, to-day he tells me it was stolen when his

place was broken into: but what would a burglar
want with such a document ? There is some trickery
going on between himself and my brother's widow —
that's the secret of it. He says he will consult her,
and she says she will consult him. Oh, it's all a
game, I know. They want to gain time to puzzle
out some plan for cheating me out of my rights.
Now, if there is any more humbugging about it, what
would you commend me to do. Captain Nixon ? "

Go to a smart, wide-awake lawyer right straightaway.
That's what you'll do. How much, if it's a
fair question, might you be expecting — I mean," he
added quickly, fearing his real intention in putting
the question might be too easily guessed, " is it worth
while going to law over it ? "

I should think it was. I am sure it is a matter of
a couple of thousand, at the very least."

A couple of thousand ! " exclaimed the skipper.
It would be absurd to act any longer the part of
a calm, cold misogynist. With a grin that would
cause a Cheshire cat pangs of envy, he suddenly
developed into an ardent lover. He soon discovered
that the landlady made no attempt to repulse him.
The overtaking, it may be stated, consisted mainly

of horseplay on the part of Nixon and giggling on
the part of Miss Walsh.

In the midst of the billing and cooing, Captain
Carmody's shrill voice was heard, and then came the
noisy tramp of feet. Miss Walsh quickly seized a
duster, and was busy rubbing the convex glass face
of the barometer when Carmody, Bendall, Arkwright,
and the Bishop entered the Nest.

The four Sloughford skippers were somewhat surprised
at finding the stranger settled comfortably in
the Nest. They had taken an instinctive dislike to
Nixon, and looked upon his presence in their
favourite haunt as an intrusion. They bade him
good evening coldly, and each man drew his chair
close to the fireplace, almost shutting out the view of
the fire from the master of the GreenhacJc, who was
now seated alongside the table, his hand supporting
his head.

Nixon felt a trifle ill at ease, but he was determined
that "those ignorant coasting captains, who
had no more manners than a Chicago hog," should be
shown the inferiority of their position, intellectually,
and socially. That they should.

For a few minutes there was dead silence in the

VOL. II. B

Nest. Then the Bishop was seized with a pang of
remorse, and, turning round, he addressed the New
Brunswicker, —

I am going to order a round. Captain Nixon.
What will you drink, sir ? " standing up and pulling
the bell-rope which dangled near the mantelpiece.

Nothing, thank you," replied Nixon, in a gruff
voice.

Be sociable, man ! " said the Bishop.

Sociable ? You're a nice lot of sociable chaps,
you are. You come in here and plant yourself right
in front of the fire, without as much as begging a
man's pardon. That's manners, aunt it ? — but what
can you expect from a parcel of coasting skippers ? "
he added, with a sneer.

The entry of Miss Walsh prevented an explosion,
and, making a strong effort to control his anger, the
Bishop gave the order for the drinks.

Carmody had started violently at Nixon's speech,
and, turning round, stared fiercely at the New
Brunswicker. Arkwright had also been galvanised
into action, and was now rubbing his nose as if he
had determined to establish a polish on its surface.
Bendall, who had been concocting a plan for getting

hold of the Bishop's umbrella, was now chuckling
violently, and was no doubt giving vent to his
emotions by unuttered, " Oh dear, oh dears."

When Miss Walsh returned with the liquor and
laid the tray on the table, she observed that something
unpleasant had happened. Treating Nixon to
a warning frown, she returned silently to the shop.

Here's bad luck to all the blue noses in Christendom
! " cried Carmody, lifting his glass and holding it
hiffh in the air.

o

The toast was drunk in silence, but with evident
gusto, and for a moment Nixon was so taken aback
that he found himself powerless to utter a word.
Then, with a gasp, he hissed through his teeth, —

Did you mean that observation for me, stranger ? "

Cap fit, cap wear," replied Carmody, taking
another sip from his glass.

Look here, you half-drunken, whole-ignorant
baboon, for two pins I'd shake you like a terrier
shakes a rat."

No doubt, no doubt," rejoined Carmody. " I
knew there was a good deal of the cur about you."

Wha-at ! " screamed Nixon, jumping to his feet,
and stretching his long arm over the head of the

Bishop, who was seated between Carmocly and his
would-be aggressor. The peace-loving Bishop, seeing
that mischief was imminent, caught Nixon's arm
gently, but firmly, and said, —

Don't, captain. Don't be so easily excited. No
doubt there's an apology due to you. I feel now
that we were a trifle rude to monopolise the fire, but
we meant no harm. Sit down now like a* good man,
and let us forget our little squabbles, as all good
Christians should."

There was something in the Bishop's voice which
seemed to soothe Nixon almost instantaneously.
Muttering a string of semi-audible oaths, he sat
down and folded his arms.

Then the Bishop turned to Carmody.

Fie ! fie ! Pat," he said, shaking his forefinger at
the offender. " You were very wrong, indeed, to
speak in that light and frivolous manner. People
have feelings, Pat. You ought to bear that in mind ;:
and do unto others as you would be done by. That's
the golden medium, Pat. I'll allow that our neighbour
Captain Nixon's manners aren't very nice and
agreeable, any more than your own, Pat ; but in this
world a man should be always prepared to back his.

opinions, and there's no denying, on the face of it at
any rate, that your fighting weight is a long way
behind that of our neighbour, Captain Nixon."

A very eloquent and a very noble harangue, indeed
! " cried Arkwright, diving his hands into his
trousers pockets and stretching his legs out at full
length.

The Bishop's reference to his fighting weight
flattered and soothed Nixon. He held his hand out,
and cried, —

Shake hands, Captain Flynn. I rather likes you,
I do. You're a straight man — a fine man. You're
almost a scholar, you are."

The Bishop was visibly affected. He grasped
Nixon's ungainly fist warmly with his right hand,
sand brushed away a tear with his left.

What a tarnation hard fin you have got," winced
Nixon, shaking his finder in the air. " It was like a
vice, it was ; and it ain't no bigger than a woman's,"
gazing in wonderment at the Bishop's small and
shapely hand.

"You'd soon learn how like a woman's it was,"
laughed Carmody, who had determined to profit by
the Bishop's advice and avoid quarrelling with

people with physique superior to his own, "if you
got a box of it. It would be better for you to
have a kedge anchor hove at you than to try and
stop a blow from Captain Augyy's fist, I can tell

you."

You don't say so, mister," sneered Nixon. " I
wonder you have the cheek to address any further
observations to me. That I do."

The Bishop coughed loudly, and, fearing another
outbreak, he addressed himself again to the master
of the Greenback.

How do you like our port, captain ? " he
asked.

Your port's right enough. It's the people in
it I don't fancy much. They thinks they're too
tarnation smart, they do — present company, of
course, excepted," he added, with a loud laugh.

I don't know how you come to think so, captain.
Indeed, as a rule, it's quite the other way.
The people I meet here, to my thinking, are modest,
very modest, indeed. Now, there's our broker,,
Mr Butler. Where could you find a finer or a
more knowledgeable gentleman ? and there isn't a
proud or a conceited turn in him."

Butler ! " sneered Nixon, remembering what Miss
Walsh had a short time previously told him. " He's
a nice sort, he is, and no mistake. I was diddled
into giving him my ship's papers, fairly diddled.
That burglary job ain't all on the square either,
take my word for it. He's about as big a rascal
as they makes 'em."

What ! " yelled the four Sloughs ord skippers,
jumping to their feet, a dangerous expression in
each man's eyes.

Nixon had unwittingly offered his companions
the most dreadful insult he could possibly have
thought of. Had he attacked their sweethearts,
or wives, or religion, they might have been able
to forgive him ; but their pet ship broker, never !
Nixon had thrown mud at the idol of their worship.
A sacrilege so terrible could only be wiped
out in blood or black eyes.

The new Brunswicker was amazed at the storm
he had created. He remained seated in his chair'
and gazed at the infuriated mariners as if they
were a collection of harmless lunatics. He did not
experience any sensation of alarm.

Sit down, gents," he cried. " What ails you all ? "

Ails us ! " yelled the skippers, not knowing what
course they ought to adopt.

Sit down, gentlemen, please," cried Bendall,
anger rendering him unnaturally polite. " Let me
deal with Mr Nixon."

Captains Flynn, Carmody, and Arkwright obeyed
Bendall's request.

Bendall felt that the task of chastising the
New Brunswicker devolved upon him. He was
the only one of the four who was equal in height
to the New Brunswick mariner, and if he did not
equal Nixon in weight, he felt that the good cause
in which he intended to wage war would lend
several stones to his specific gravity.

Allow me, gentlemen," said Bendall, addressing his
friends, " to settle matters with Mr Nixon. I am the
only one of you who has a right to tackle this insulting
vagabond. Now, Mr Nixon " — Bendall considered the
appellation " Mr " to a master-mariner would add injury
to insult — " I'm ready to show you fair fight."

Don't you work yourself into such a white heat,
sonny," smiled Nixon, gazing at Butler's champion ;
"' I am too lazy, I am, this evening to trouble about
licking you into a cocked hat."

Coward ! " hissed Carinody.

Fulsome interloper ! " sneered Arkwright.

You won't fight, won't you ? " demanded Bendall.


Certainly not with you. I don't want to be up
before a coroner's jury this voyage."

That's only bounce," said Bendall. " If you
won't fight, oblige us by apologising for the language
you have used about Mr Butler."

Apologise ! That ain't in the least probable.
If you likes it, I'll repeat my observation, and tell
you Butler, the ship broker, is a tarnation swindler.
He and another friend of yours, the widow of that
man whose wreckage I fell foul of, M'Cormick — are
about as keen a pair of sharpers as I have heard
of for many a day."

The Bishop rose to his feet at the reference to
Mrs M'Cormick. His friends were too much occupied
staring in wonderment at the audacious Blue
Nose to observe the expression which distorted the
Bishop's features as Nixon dragged Mrs M'Cormick's
name into the quarrel — an expression in which
anger and horror struggled for mastery.

Sit down, Tom," he cried, seizing Bendall by the

shoulders and pushing him into his chair. " Let thisbe
my quarrel. I demand it as a right, a sacred rights

Nixon burst into laughter at the notion of a man
of Flynn's physique daring to think of pitting himself
against one who stood little short of six feet
in his boots, and weighed about fifteen stone.

Stand up, sir," said the Bishop calmly, " unless
you want me to slap you across the face."

You slap me across the face ! Oh ! ho ! ho ! "
laughed Nixon.

I'll count ten, sir ; and then if you do not rise
like a man, I shall carry out my threat. One,
two—"

Nixon saw that the Bishop was evidently mad
enough to mean what he said, so he stood up, and
cried, angrily and impatiently, —

Well, what is it you want ? "

Satisfaction — apologies are now out of the question.
Step out into the middle of the room and fight
me fair."

Nixon was puzzled. Evidently this fellow, who
was at least three inches less in stature than he,
meant to fight. Well, he would teach him a lesson.
But could he depend upon getting fair play ?

Addressing the three skippers who were seated, he
said, —

It's all moonshine to talk of this man," pointing-contemptuously
at the Bishop, " fighting me ; but if
he wants to be taught a lesson, I have no objections
in life to teach it to him, just as a specimen of the
sort of treatment I give to chaps who get my dander
up, provided I can reckon on you fellows not joining
in the row. I aunt the sort of chap to tackle four
men single-handed without being driven to it."

"You may take our words," said Bendall, "that
not a man of us three will rise to his feet until the
row is over."

That's straight, is it ? — between man and man ? "

Our words of honour on it."

"All right. Now, friend, I'm sorry for you," addressing
the Bishop; "I'm sorry for you, I am, because
I rather took a fancy to you ; but as you want
to be pounded, I'm glad to inform you you couldn't
come to a better man to do the trick. Sing out when
you have had your fill of it."

Will you help me to place the table against the
wall ? " said the Bishop, " so that we may have plenty
of elbow room."

With pleasure, my friend."

The table was placed against the wall, and Captain
Flynn then went to the door and quietly turned
the key in the lock, in order that no intruders might
disturb the combat.

Bendall could scarcely prevent himself from chuckling
as he saw the Bishop divesting himself of his
coat, waistcoat, and hat, and flinging all three into a
corner of the room. But when the peacemaker of the
port commenced to tuck up his sleeves. Captain Tom
could contain himself no longer, and burst into a concatenation
of chuckles and " Oh dear, oh dears."

Fie ! lie ! Tom," said Captain Flynn, as he finished
the operation of tucking his shirt sleeves above his
elbows. " This is too serious a matter for this shocking
frivolity. I'm surprised at you, Tom." Then squaring
himself before the tall New Brunswicker, he
murmured, " I am at your service now, sir."

The fight began. Nixon commenced by launching
the most furious blows against his antagonist. The
Bishop successfully dodged or parried every blow.
He danced round and round the now infuriated New
Brunswicker with the agility of a monkey.

The three skippers, who were seated, had forgotten

their anger, and were enjoying the fight immensely.
They were aware of one fact concerning which the
master of the Greenback was in blissful ignorance
namely, that the Bishop was an excellent boxer,
Arkwright rubbed his nose until it was ruddier than
the cherry ; Carmody tugged at his black tuft of
beard until he had almost torn it out piecemeal ;
Bendall was rapidly chuckling himself into a fit.

Nixon, whose blood had gradually risen to fever heat,
was incensed and astonished beyond measure at the
invulnerability of his antagonist — he could not, so
blinding was his fury, tell whether or no his frantic
efforts were damaging the Bishop — and, like a great
ungainly kangaroo, he hopped around the room,
launching into mid-air blows that would almost burst
in an iron door.

At last the Bishop, who was perfectly cool and
collected, saw his opportunity had come. The three
skippers observed a quick movement of Captain
Flynn's right and left hand, and almost instantaneously
Captain Nixon lay doubled up in a corner of
the "Nest."

^S8^

IN WHICH SUSAN MAKES A CONFESSION.

ALTON was disgusted with himself when
he reviewed, next morning, his conduct in
the garden of Woodbine Cottage. Butler
was right after all. He did not know the measure
of his own weakness.

When he had gone back to the house with Mrs
M'Cormick, he had discovered, much to his relief, that
the ship broker did not suspect anything. He had
scarcely the courage to look Butler straight in the
face as they stood chatting for a few moments in
the porch.

He could not tell to what extent he had outraged
Susan's feelings. For one brief moment it had
seemed to him that she was unwilling to make any

-effort to repulse him ; but he found it impossible to
understand Susan. Her mood, as she had declared,
was indeed a fickle one. When he bade her goodnight,
she had never vouchsafed him a glance either
angry or tender. She had given him her hand, but
she had not uttered even a commonplace " Goodbye."


She will never speak to me again," he mused, ashe
walked impatiently up and down the poop of the
Atalanta. " This afternoon she will leave Slough-ford,
and I may never see her again. I dare not
follow her to Kosspoint and tell her how I hate myself
for my conduct. I must write to her ; but will
she read a letter of mine ? "

Looking towards Bankside, his eyes rested for a
moment on the faint white speck high up the hill.
Suddenly an irresistible impulse seized hold of him.
He would pay one more visit to Woodbine Cottage
before Susan started. Perhaps she would refuse to
see him; most likely she would. No matter, he
would make the attempt.

Fearing that if he hesitated he might change his
mind, he quickly gave orders to have his punt brought
under the quarter. With rapidly-pulsing heart he

descended the ladder which hung over the side of
the ship, and pulled across the river.

When he reached the garden-gate he paused and
took out his watch. It was a little over ten o'clock.
The place seemed so changed in the morning light.
The witchery o£ the night had deserted it. The day
was bright and warm, but instead of the clear, invigorating
breeze which had swept along the hill as
Susan had walked beside him the previous night,
there was a depressing stillness in the air. Everything
was drowsy-looking. A white cat sat blinking
on one of the window-sills, and a terrier lay curled up
in the porch.

He almost dreaded to disturb the stillness by walking
up the gravelled path which led to the house.
He felt he had failed in resolution, that he would not
have sufficient nerve to confront Susan. One moment
he fancied she would appear with angered looks
and flaming cheeks ; at another moment he pictured
her with a pale, sorrowful face, her lips curled with
disdain.

He felt inclined to turn back, and was about to
move slowly away from the gate, when the terrier
in the porch awoke, and barking loudly, ran down

the path. The noise startled Dalton. He stood still
for a moment, and then he stooped and opened the
gate. The dog seemed to recognise him — a good
omen he thought.

The door was opened by Mrs M'Cormick's maid.
Susan was standing in the hall, prepared to start on
her journey to Rosspoint. She had been stooping
over some boxes in the hall, when the door was
opened. As she lifted her head her eyes met Dalton's,
and a crimson flush came into her cheeks. She could
not deny herself now.

Dalton held out his hand, and Susan coldly gave
him hers.

I am most anxious to see you," he said. " I
shan't detain you long. May I go inside ? " pointing
to the open door of the sitting-room.

She hesitated a moment, and then nodded assent.
Dalton entered the room, and advanced to the window.
Giving some directions to her maid, Susan followed him.

I am deeply sorry — I cannot tell you how sorry

for my conduct last evening," he began. " I came

to implore your forgiveness. I could not bear the

thought of parting from you in anger. Will you

forgive me ? "

VOL. II. C

"I cannot," she said, a little bitterly, avoiding his
earnest gaze. "You have no right to expect that I
should ever open my lips to you again. I could not
refuse to see you now, without creating a scene, I
suppose ; and I hate scenes."

You are very hard on me. It is not as if we
were likely to meet frequently. Try if you cannot
feel less bitterly towards me. I did not mean to
trouble you this morning, but I could not rest until
I had asked your forgiveness."

She made no reply, but stood with her hands
clasped in front of her.

You will never see me again," he went on. " I do
not suppose that will be a source of grief to you — but
you may sometimes think of me, and perhaps you
may regret sending me away like this. We are old
friends. I know how badly I have acted, but do not
let us part in anger. Will you forget and forgive ? "

She put out her hand. He caught it eagerly and
raised it to his lips.

Why don't you speak to me, Susie ? " he asked.
'' I would almost prefer to have an angry word from
you than no word at all."

I am not angry with you now."

Then let me look into your eyes before I go, that
I may know I am entirely forgiven."

Her face was still turned away from him.
"Susie!" he said, quickly and anxiously. "You
are crying. What is it ? What have I said or done
now ? "

"Nothing," she sighed, drying her eyes. "I was
thinking of many things that made me sad — of long
ago."

He shook his head sadly.
Long ago has bitter memories for me too."
I don't pity men," she said briskly. " You lead an
active life. You don't know what it is to live as I do.
The dulness of my life is rapidly making a melancholy
sold woman of me."

The change in her voice displeased Dalton. He
preferred to see her in any mood save one of gaiety,
which he knew was affected.

You should not allow yourself to be dull. Surely
you are not without many friends here ; and why not
let your thoughts dwell more upon the future than
the past ? "

I have few friends, and the future possesses little
interest for me. I prefer to live in the past."

"Last night you said life was full of changes. I
believe it is ; so I don't despair about seeing you
converted some day into one of the liveliest and
happiest of women."

You are not very complimentary. No doubt I am
one of the dullest of women just now."

"You know I did not mean that. You are the
brightest and best of women ; but you are growing a
little morbid, I fear, Susie," bending his head. " Will
you ever think of your old sweetheart when he is
gone for ever ? "

I will think of you night and day, Dick — my
God ! what am I saying ? " she cried, covering her
face with her hands.

For a moment Dalton was dumb stricken. He
could scarcely believe he had heard her aright.
Then with a low, glad cry he clasped her close to
him, and murmured, —

You do love me, Susie ; you do love me, my darling,
my darling ! "

No, no," she cried, struggling to release herself.
I did not know what I was saying."

Why torture me again with doubt and despair ? "
he said, releasing her.

How can I answer you ? I do not want to torture
you ; but what can I say to you ? "

That you love me, if you do love me, Susie.
Say it only once, darling. My love," Fie said
gently, taking her hand, " the barrier between us is
broken down. If time proves it is otherwise, I
swear I shall never again cross your path — never
again trouble you by my presence." He dropped
her hand as he spoke.

"Do not ask me to answer you now," she said,
clasping her hands tightly.

Why not now ? I shall not see you again before
I leave Sloughford, and if you send me away without
some word of hope, I will never come back."

"I don't want to lose you, Dick," she murmured,
turning her face towards him. " No, no ; forget I
have said so ! "

Susie, Susie. What am I to think ? I cannot
understand you. You seem to take a delight in
torturing me. One moment I am lifted high above
the earth, only to be dashed down again the next
moment. I only ask for one word. Do you love
me, my darling?"

She bent her head and murmured some words in

SO low a tone that Dalton did not hear her. Then
she looked up, her cheeks pale, and an affrighted
expression in her eyes. "But," with her arms
outstretched as if to ward off something evil, "you
must try and forget I have said so — for a long,
long time. Promise me you will not see me again
until I ask you to come to me."

He caught her hands, and placing them on his
shoulders, said, —

I will promise you anything in the world, dearest ;
but you forget that you have not said anything tome.
At least I have not heard you."

She paused, and then suddenly clasping her arms
round his neck, she drew his head towards her
and whispered, —

I love you, my own, own darling Dick."

END OF PART THE SECOND.

IN DOUBT.

CHAPTER I.

BY THE SEA.

JT was late in April when Mrs M'Cormick
went to Rosspoint, a fishing village some
fifteen miles distant from Sloughford.
Rosspoint was situated on the sea coast, near
the mouth of the Slough. The village was built
on the slope rising from one arm of a broad blue
bay. A flat, even strand, of considerable breadth
when the receding tide left it bare, stretched
itself from one arm of the bay to the other, a
distance of over two miles. The country inland
bordering the strand was bare and swampy. No

tree nor hill broke the monotony of the scene, and the
land was unlit either for tillage or for pasturage.

The villagers were composed mainly of fisher-folk,
and beyond attending occasionally the market at
Sloughford, they held little communication with
the seaport. Some Sloughford families visited
Rosspoint during the summer months, but the
village had not developed into a watering-place
in the accepted sense of the term. At any time
outside the months of June, July, or August, a
visitor was looked upon as a nine days' wonder,
and his or her history formed a subject for lengthy
discussion among the dwellers of the village. They
could not believe that a stranger would settle
down in their midst merely for sanatory reasons
before the summer season had actually set in; and
experience had taught them that those who came
to Rosspoint out of season had, as a rule, a
history of some kind. Very often that history was
simply one of straitened means ; but they soon
discovered that Mrs M'Cormick was not in straitened
circumstances.

For many days the strange lady, whose dark
figure stood out conspicuously every morning on

the lonely strand, was a mystery to the villagers,
They wondered who or what she could be. She
did not seek to enter into conversation with any
of them who chanced to cross her path ; and there
was a sorrowful, wild look in her eyes which repelled
those whom it did not alarm.

Then, part of Susan's story crept out somehow,
and in a distorted form became public property.
She was the widow, it was whispered, of a man
who had been driven to despair by her conduct.
He had been a seawater — and "this fact caused the
fisher-folks to sympathise with him — and he had
gone to sea vowing to destroy himself. No wonder
his widow should look white and scared. Others
had it that the strange lady had been abandoned by
her husband for her infidelity.

At all events, the village agreed that she was a
woman to be avoided, and Susan often wondered
why it was that the little children whom she met
now and again always fled at her approach. At
first she fancied that it was nothing more than a
feeling of shyness with strangers which caused the
children to avoid her ; but she noticed that time did
not wear away the shyness.

During the first fortnight of her stay in Ross-point
the weather was exceptionally fine ; and every
morning after her breakfast Susan walked along
the deserted strand, her only companion a book.
She seldom ventured farther than half way towards
the opposite arm of the bay, and then she would
make a seat for herself among the grey boulders
which fringed the yellow sand. ' Her book was
rarely opened. She would sit and gaze for hours
at the waters of the bay, unceasingly curling themselves
up as they reached the strand, and breaking
with a sigh as if they were relieved at the accomplishment
of some strange, sad mission.

She loved to listen to the music of the waves. The
thunder of the sea as it burst against the cliffs had
died away into a faint, monotonous murmur ere it
reached her ears. There was something in the sound
of the sea which soothed her, and something melancholy
which seemed to sympathise with her own
melancholy.

Outside the narrow line of wavelets the waters of
the bay were blue and placid. She could not imagine
how that quiet, peaceful-looking mass of water could
be lashed into fury ; how the smooth waves could

break with angry roar. And yet she knew that
the dull yellow sands were embedded with wreckage ;.
that every winter lives were lost inside the gaunt
arms of the bay. Perhaps even on the very spot
where she now sat the body of some poor seawater
had been washed ashore.

Often she would start to her feet, and gaze with
horror at the boulders near her, fancying she saw
the white, upturned face of a shipwrecked sailor.
Then, with a shudder, she would walk swiftly towards
the village, memories of her husband crowding
out all other thoughts — his silent footstep pursuing
her along the strand, his angry face seeking to read
her thoughts.

Why was she thus persecuted ? she often asked herself.
What had she done that the face of the dead
should haunt her constantly ? But was her husband
dead ? Might it not be that he would yet return ?
What should she do — what could she do — if he did
come back to her ? She dare not face him, the kisses
of her lover still burning on her lips. And as she
thought of Jmn, a smile would pass across her face,
and somehow she would experience an unaccountable
sense of relief. After all, no guilt attached itself

to her. She was innocent of any crime save that of
surrendering her heart to the man she loved. Women
had wronged their husbands with a wrong infinitely
greater than hers, and had suffered infinitely less
than she was suffering. Perhaps she had been too
impulsive, too precipitate ; but aught else she was
guiltless of.

She endeavoured earnestly to banish her lover
from her thoughts, and day by day the memory of
the morning when she had confessed her heart was
his grew more indistinct. She had no right to have
allowed him to kiss her lips. She hated herself for
having been so weak, so wicked ; but the temptation
had been strong, and her love was great, and it
misfht be that he and she should never meet ao^ain.

She frequently found herself longing for some
news — some certainty with regard to M'Cormick's
fate. Sometimes she felt he would return. What
should she do then ? She would confess everything
to him. He loved her, she knew ; perhaps he might
learn to forgive and forget. Then a dull pain would
numb her heart, and she would pray for some relief
for anything but this horrible uncertainty. There
were times when she fancied that her husband was

nearer and dearer to her than she had ever supposed.
She did not love M'Cormick, she never could love
him ; but she was his and his only while he lived,
and she would, she must, learn to drive from her
heart the old love which had lived in it for years.

Almost every day, as she sat in her favourite seat
above the sands faint, black specks could be seen
upon the horizon, and occasionally a vessel had
crossed the mouth of the bay — almost a stone's-throw
from the land, it seemed. She experienced a strange
yearning to cross the waters which lay between her
and every craft that came within the sight of Ross-point.
Often when a vessel crossed the entrance of
the bay Susan found herself wondering if she knew
what ship it was. Once, on a clear, bright day, a full-rigged
ship with great white sails and white-painted
hull had appeared off the eastern headland, and with
a glad cry Susan had sprung to her feet, full for a
moment of the thought that this was the Atalanta,.
that he was near her, that he had come to claim her
for his own. Then she had sunk into her seat, sobbing
as if her heart would break.

During the third week of her visit to Rosspoint
the weather changed. A drizzling, unceasing mist

filled the air, and Susan was obliged to remain indoors.
She sat for the greater part of the day at
the window which faced one arm of the bay. A dull
green sea now rolled and roared in the bay, and the
opposite headland was a blurred, dark-grey mass,
standing out heavily against a leaden sky. When
she turned her eyes inland nothing save a weary
waste of land met her tired gaze — land which lay
almost level with the sea. No prospect could be
more gloomy and dispiriting ; and she knew that sofar
from growing physically and mentally stronger,
she was fast becoming more weak and more depressed.
A listlessness, too, which at times alarmed
herself, had seized hold of her ; and her maid found
it impossible to arouse her or to interest her about
any matter.

At length Susan felt that her utter loneliness was no
longer bearable, and that she was bound to seek for
some change of scene. Should she return to Slough-ford,
or should she seek for another village near the
sea, where life and its surroundings would be more
cheerful ?

She had, unconsciously at first, developed a strong
love for the sea. She could remember the time, not

very far back, when the sea and its associations had
no charms for her ; but now she could not bear the
thought of leaving the great heaving waters behind
her and shutting herself up once more inside a house
in town — its dulness would kill her. But, after all,
she asked herself, was its dulness greater than the
dulness she now endured ? If she were once more in
Sloughford she could visit its busy quays, and in the
bustle discover a pleasure hitherto unknown to her.
Still, she feared to bid farewell to Rosspoint — if the
melancholy sighing of the sea increased her own
melancholy, at least it soothed her.

At last it occurred to her that with a companion
who could sympathise with her, life might become
more enjoyable ; and, surprised with herself for not
having thought of doing so before, Susan wrote to
Helen Cadogan, and asked her to come and spend a
few weeks with her in Rosspoint.

IN WHICH HELEN Unpack HER HEART.

Susan was surprised and grieved to discover
that Helen was, like herself, suffering
from mental depression. She had fully
expected to find her friend full of high spirits ; the
mere expectation of one whose countenance she had
never seen clouded by ill-humour or sorrow had in a
great measure chased away the sombre clouds which
had darkened her own mental vision during the days
she had been alone in Rosspoint.

The evening of Helen's arrival, the two women had
been so much taken up with conversation about
Sloughford and their common friends in the seaport
that neither had noticed how low-spirited the other
was. Their own mental troubles had been allowed to
slide into the background ; but more than once it had

occurred to Susan that some great change had come
over her visitor — that her cheeks were white and
wan, that her laughter had lost its merry ring.

The weather at Rosspoint was still unchanged.
The wind blew in from the sea, and the rain fell
unceasingly. Susan thought that possibly the moist
heavy atmosphere was affecting Helen, and was
accountable in some way for her depression. However,
she decided next day that Helen was not only
depressed but melancholy, and that there must be
some trouble, either present or impending, which was
causing the alteration in her.

The discovery that something ailed her friend tied
the effect of banishing temporarily Susan's gloom.
She wondered what could be the matter. Helen's
uncle was quite well : she had no uneasiness with
regard to him. Could the girl be in love ? If so,
she could perhaps account for a good deal of the
trouble. She had never heard Helen speak of a
lover, but this did not argue that her friend had
not lost her heart. Yes ; she must be in love.
She had an instinctive feeling that a lover was at
the bottom of the mischief.

Who could the lover be ? She conjured up images

VOL. II. D

o£ all the men she knew in Sloughford, but none of
them seemed a likely personage. Perhaps it was
somebody whom Helen had met during the past
few weeks ; but then she remembered Helen had
mentioned that no one had visited Butler's house
since she herself had left Sloughford, except her
uncle's clerk. Madden ! Could he be the man ?

At first the idea seemed absurd. Yet why should
it be absurd ? Madden was, after a fashion, a good-looking
fellow; and certainly he could prove an
amusing companion. But he was scarcely the sort
of man to touch Helen's heart. There was a certain
coarseness and vulgarity about him which would
repel a girl of Helen's nature.

For her own part she had always experienced a
passive dislike for Butler's clerk ; but since his visit
to Woodbine Cottage, the morning she had fainted in
Dalton's presence, this passive feeling had developed
into an active one. She fancied he had guessed her
secret, guessed how ardently she was attached to her
old lover ; and he had deliberately entrapped her into
an implied admission of her love — for in no other
way, she thought, could her alarm at the mention of
the Water J^ymph in the Slough be construed. She

almost hated him for the trick he had played upon
her lover and herself. And, to make matters worse,
Madden had taken it upon himself to pose as a near
and dear friend ever since the news of the Water
Nymph's disaster had reached the seaport. Could
it be possible that Helen had surrendered her heart
to that conceited fellow ?

But was it not silly to suppose that everyone was
subject to the same influences or emotions as herself ?
Helen saw him — if he were really the man the girl
fancied — in a light quite different from the light in
which others viewed him. After all, there was no
reason why her friend should not fall in love with him,
and perhaps a good many reasons why she should.

What would Butler think of it ? Madden was no
doubt a favourite with the ship broker, but it was
scarcely likely that Butler would approve of a union
between his niece, whom he loved as a father loves
his own daughter, and a man of Madden's position
and character.

Perhaps there was no foundation for her surmises
and her anxiety with regard to Helen. The girl's
depression of spirits might arise from causes which
she, Susan, did not dream of. She was anxious that

Library

Universal OF flUNOIS

Helen should confide in her — there was no doubt she
had some secret trouble — but she did not like to ask
questions or to offer advice uninvited.

Observing that Mrs M'Cormick occasionally regarded
her with an anxious eye, Helen made a strong
effort to regain her lost spirits, but to Susan the effort
was apparent. For the greater part of the day both
women sat at the window gazing at the seething waters
of the bay, little inclined for conversation. Neither
seemed inclined to break the barrier of reserve which
was gradually building itself up between them ; and
the hours went by slowly and wearily.

In the evening, after the blinds had been drawn
down and the candles lit, it seemed to Susan that the
weather had suddenly changed. A feeling possessed
her that the change in the weather was a similar one
to that which had occurred the evening her lover had
kissed her in the garden. She rose from her chair,
and drawing back the blind, looked up at the sky.
The clouds were ragged and wild-looking. It seemed
as if they had been torn asunder in some fierce
struggle with the elements, and were now fleeing
seawards hurriedly and fearfully.

Susan was sufficiently otherwise to know that

the wind had veered into the north-west, and that
the dull, dispiriting mists were banished for a time.
she drew up the lower half of the window, and a
cool, refreshing current of air swept into the room,
causing the blind to flap against the window panes,
like a sail taken suddenly aback. Closing the window
hastily, she asked Helen if she would care to
venture into the night air, and take a stroll upon the
sands. Helen gladly assented.

When they reached the deserted strand, they
found the tide had been ebbing but a short while,
and there was yet only a narrow belt of sand, wet
and speckled with patches of white foam, left bare by
the tide. The wind was high, but the sound of the
breeze was deadened by the dull roar of the sea. The
night was gradually growing brighter as the clouds
flew across the bay, and inland in the north-west a
pale blue light flooded the sky.

Susan's spirits were more buoyant than they had
been for many months. She could not shake ofl" the
feeling that the night had something in common with
the night Dalton and she had stood together in the
garden. Her thoughts were full of her lover. She
was tortured with no recollections of her husband ;

it seemed as if his image had faded from her
memory.

For some minutes the two women walked silently
along the moist, glistening sands. Helen was the
first to speak.

You seem in better spirits to-night than I have
seen you for a long time."

There was in her voice a sadness which Susan's
quick ear instantly detected.

Yes," she said. " Sometimes I am as sensitive to
changes in the weather as if I were a weather-glass.
Evidently it is not so with you. Come, Helen, tell
me what it all means. It would be stupid to pretend
any longer that I have not observed how low-spirited
you are. Tell me," she went on, turning her head and
looking swiftly into Helen's eyes, " are you in love ? "

I am."

There was a long awkward pause. Susan was
sorry she had forced from her friend the admission
that she was in love. So far she had been correct
in her surmise. Probably she would now learn
that Madden was her sweetheart.

Susan," said Helen abruptly, " I am very unhappy."


"I know you are, dear. And now you are
going to be a good girl, and tell me all about
your trouble. What is the matter ? "

"He — you must not ask me yet who he is — is
treating me very badly ; I don't know why. I did
not think I cared so much for him until I found
that he was growing cool. Lately I have noticed
a sudden change in his manner towards me, but he
has said nothing. He asked me to speak to uncle — "

Before or after the coolness ? "

Before it. I did speak to uncle, although I
found it a harder task than I had imagined it
would be to shannon up sufficient courage."

"I should fancy it was the man's business, not
the woman's, to find the courage for approaching
your uncle."

Yes ; but he explained to me that it was much
more likely uncle would listen to me than to him.
There were reasons which made it very awkward
for him to speak to my uncle."

What did Mr Butler say to you ? "

"Nothing for a long time — I mean for many
minutes — but I never before saw him look so
strange."

I suppose he was surprised — just as I was
when it first occurred to me that you were in
love."

No. He looked more alarmed than surprised.
He told me I should give him time to think over
the matter, and he seems to wear an anxious,
worried look ever since I spoke to him."

Most likely he has had a talk with your
friend, and this may account for the coolness. You
ought not to be fretting yourself, without, at least,
seeking for an explanation."

But how can I ask for an explanation ? I
don't know what to do. There is something wrong,
something I cannot understand ; and I fancy my
uncle has not yet made up his mind, and has
therefore not mentioned the matter to anyone yet
not even to my — my friend."

Tell me, Helen. Is Mr Madden your friend ? "
Yes — how have you guessed it ? "

IN WHICH THE BISHOP Appears IN A NEW CHARACTER.

EXT day the weather was fine and
bright. The breeze still blew seaward,
but the strength of the wind had died
away during the night, and white, fleecy clouds
sailed slowly across the sky.

The two women left the house soon after breakfast
and walked down to the beach. The heavy
sea which for many days had been rolling into
the bay had altered considerably the appearance of
the strand. It was no longer smooth and even.
Here and there large patches of rock, covered with
a green, slimy seaweed, were imbedded firmly in
the sands ; and in many places it seemed as if the
boulders had been torn from the beach, and had

been scattered over the surface of the strand by
some mighty and wrathful hands.

Susan had the previous night inspired in her
friend a feeling of hopefulness and cheerfulness.
She did not consider it would be either prudent
or just to say anything in condemnation of Helen's
lover. She suggested that Madden was fearful of
offending Butler, and in that way his seeming coolness
could be accounted for.

Helen did not seem inclined to refer to the
previous night's conversation, and judging that she
was still shy about her first love affair, Susan
made no allusion to it. She was content to see
that her friend had regained a good deal of her
old spirits.

It was late in the afternoon when they left the
strand and returned homeward. As they approached
the house Susan fancied she saw the figure of a
man standing in one of the windows of the sitting-room.
Her heart bounded at the notion that it
miffht be her lover who had come to claim her.
She stood still for a moment, almost dreading to
approach the house. She was on the point of
saying something to Helen, who was now gazing

curiously at her, wondering what had caused
Susan's cheeks to grow scarlet, but quickening her
steps she walked on, in advance of her companion.

When the door was opened Susan's maid said, —
'there is a strange gentleman wants to see you,
ma'am."

Then it was not her lover, she reflected. Who
could it be ? Perhaps someone who was the bearer
of tidings of her husband. How wicked of her to
have allowed herself to indulge in dreams of Dalton
while perhaps her husband still lived !

When she entered the room with Helen, the
strange gentleman, who had been for some time sitting
uneasily in the chair, nursing his hat on his
knee, stood up and bowed profoundly.

"I suppose you scarcely remember me, ladies,"
he said, bowing again.

Captain Flynn ! " cried both women in astonishment.


Of course, I remember you. Captain Flynn," said
Mrs M'Cormick, offering her hand. " You have been
at Woodbine Cottage more than once."

And if I never met you before," smiled Helen, " I
have often heard my uncle speak in high terms of you."

The Bishop seemed overwhelmed by the cordiality
of the reception.

I'm proud, ladies," said he, " to have the pleasure
of shaking hands with both of you ; and I
hope we may be better acquainted in the future."

"I hope so, indeed," said Mrs M'Cormick-
Won't you be seated ? "

Thank you, ma'am," said the Bishop, sitting
nervously on a chair, and placing his hat under it.

Have you been long in Rosspoint ? " asked Mrs
M'Cormick.

Only about an hour, ma'am," replied the Bishop.

"It was very good of you to call upon us so
-quickly. I have been so lonely here that I assure
you the face of a visitor from Sloughford is indeed
a welcome sight. Miss Cadogan has already laid
me under a load of obligations to her."

The Bishop coughed, and actually blushed.

Did you see my uncle before you left Slough-ford
? " asked Helen.

I did. Miss Cadogan. I saw the good man
last evening, but, as he was not aware that I intended
coming to Rosspoint, he did not send any
message by me."

He was quite well, I hope ? "

Quite well, Miss Cadogan. You ought to be
proud of him, miss ; for, indeed, it isn't easy to
meet the likes of Mr Butler in this weak, frivolous
world."

I am proud of him," said Helen, smiling at the
Bishop's earnest manner.

For a moment there was a pause, broken by Mrs
M'Cormick.

How long do you intend remaining in Rosspoint^
Captain Flynn ? " she asked.

Only an hour or two, ma'am. The car that
brought me down is waiting in the village to take
me back."

It was scarcely worth your while to make such
a tiresome journey, if you intend to return so
rapidly ; but, I suppose," she added, smiling, " you
get quite enough sea air without troubling to come
and seek for it ? "

I do, ma'am. The fact is, I came here to-day
in order to have a private conversation with yourself,
Mrs M'Cormick."

A private conversation with me ! " exclaimed
Susan, frowning.

Yes," sighed the Bishop, " with you, ma'am."

Helen rose, and laying her hand on Susan's
shoulder, said, —

I shall run up to my room." Then, looking
towards the Bishop, — " I suppose I shall see you
again before you go. Captain Flynn ? "

You will, Miss Cadogan, if such is your pleasure.
And if you have any message for your good uncle,
I'll be proud to be the bearer of it."

Thank you very much. I shall write a note to
him while you are busy," she nodded, glancing
at Susan, and quitting the room.

When the Bishop found himself alone with Mrs
M'Cormick he seemed quite ill at ease. He blew
his nose violently, and coughed two or three times,
and then blew his nose once more.

Susan was puzzled. What business could this
man have with her ? He and her husband had
been very friendly. Could it be that he was the
bearer of news about M'Cormick ? Why didn't
the man speak ? She was about to ask the Bishop
his business when that gentleman found his voice.

I came to speak to you on a very delicate point,"
he began, with a smile.

It was a queer smile. Susan could not understand
it. She bit her lip, and looked out of the corners
of her eyes at her vis-davis. She had met Flynn
two or three times, and she had often heard of
him, and had often laughed at stories about his
sanctimoniousness. This smile, it seemed to her,
was sadly out of keeping either with sanctity or
sanctimoniousness. There was a suspicion of a leer
in it, and there was an implication that Mrs
M'Cormick understood the nature and the cause of
the smile. It could not be that this man had come
to tell her any news of her husband, be it good or
bad, with a grin — yes, grin was a better woiH —
such as had curled his mouth and dilated his
nostrils a moment since. What could he mean ?
Would it be that he had developed some religious
mania, and hearing of her attachment to Dalton,
had come to lecture her on the error of her ways ?

I came to ask your advice, ma'am," said the
Bishop, seeing that Mrs M'Cormick did not offer to
help him out of his difficulty, " on a very delicate
point."

My advice," she said, somewhat sharply. " About
what, pray ? "

Well, ma'am," said the Bishop, drawing a long-face
and sighing profoundly, " I was offered a very
nice charter this week — a round in the foreign
trade — which would keep me and my little ship
away for over a twelvemonth. Now, ought I to
accept it, I ask you ? "

The man was certainly deranged. She felt inclined
to ring the bell for the servant; but perhaps
it would be as well to humour this poor fellow.

Would it not be better to consult Mr Butler ?
What good could my advice be ? I suppose it is
only a question whether it will put money in your
way or not ? I assure you I know nothing about
shipping business."

"You are wrong, ma'am," smiled the Bishop —
again that peculiar smile which had puzzled Susan
so much, — " money is not a consideration with me,
I am very comfortable as it is ; so far," he added,,
in a deep, hollow voice, "as one can expect comfort
in this vale of tears. I own my own ship. I
have a very tidy lump of money in the bank — more
than anyone thinks, maybe. I could afford to give
up the sea, with all its trials and tribulations, at
any moment."

I am very glad to hear it."
Then you don't like the sea, ma'am ? "
Oh, yes. I have grown quite in love with it."
Happy sea ! " sighed the Bishop, lifting both hands
to the level of his cheeks and tilting his head slightly
to one side.

Could the man be intoxicated ? Susan asked herself.
No. He seemed perfectly sober.

"There is no doubt, mind you," continued the
Bishop, "that this same treacherous sea holds the
remains of the dear departed — I allude respectfully
to your late husband, ma'am," he added, bowing
low.

"You must pardon me," said Susan rising; "but
I must bid you good-day. You will excuse me, I
hope."

"A moment, Mrs M'Cormick. One moment, my
dear good lady I " cried the Bishop, stooping and
fishing for his hat. " You don't perhaps understand
me quite, although my sentiments ought to be as
plain as my language."

No. Most decidedly, I do not understand you."
"Then I must be more plain and more candid,

ma'am, though I thought you had my bearings
VOL, II. E

from the beginning. I came, ma'am, to offer you
my hand, heart, and fortune. I can make you
comfortable, ma'am, as comfort goes in this weak,
frivolous world. I have long admired you, ma'am
but necessarily from afar, owing partly to the fact
that your dear, departed husband was still to the
fore — but now that he is gone — rest his soul ! — I
took the earliest opportunity of making a proposal
to you. Don't refuse to hearken to me because I
am no longer young and gay. Youth must pass
away, and gaiety has its drawbacks as the years
roll by ; but," waving his hand excitedly, and raising
his voice to its highest pitch, "the honest love
of an honest man abideth for ever."

The suddenness of the proposal and the excited demeanour
of the Bishop, had completely bewildered
Mrs M'Cormick. She stood in the centre of the
room transfixed by the strange, wild earnestness of
the Bishop's words and looks. She was even unconscious
until he had moved backwards, in order
to wave his hand the more impressively, that he
had been holding her fingers clasped in his hard,
small hand.

She drew herself up with a shiver, and then she

felt inclined to burst into laughter. The situation
seemed altogether funny.

Her eyes suddenly met the wild, sad, expectant gaze
of Captain Flynn, and she was no longer inclined to
laugh. This man was terribly in earnest. What
should she say to him ? How should she dismiss
him for ever without letting him see how absurd
she deemed his proposal ?

A tap was heard at the door.

Miss Cadogan ! " exclaimed the Bishop. " I'll ask
you for your answer another day, Mrs M'Cormick."

No ! no ! " cried Susan, approaching the door.
•" You must take my answer now. I am very sorry,
but I cannot think of accepting you — or anyone else."

Stay, ma'am ! " he cried, placing his hand over
hers on the door handle. " Perhaps you have a doubt
about the fate of poor John. I can set your mind at
rest on that point — "

How dare you ? " cried Susan angrily, throwing
off his hand and opening the door. "You have got
my answer. You must understand that I cannot even
meet you again. I did not wish to offend you, but
you have offended me past forgiveness. Please understand
that."

IN WHICH MISS WALSH LANDS HER FISH.

HE week which followed the quarrel in
the " Bold Dragoon " brought about many
changes, more or less important. No
trace of the perpetrators of the burglary at Butler's
office had been discovered, and it was still a mystery
why M'Cormick's will was the only document which
the thieves had taken away.

When Miss Walsh, acting upon Nixon's advice,
consulted a solicitor, she learned with delight and surprise
that in the event of no will being forthcoming
her brother's estate would be divided equally between
herself and the widows Then she began to
feel that she had not played her cards well in connection
with Mrs M'Cormick and Butler. No matter
what Butler might say to the contrary, she was convinced

that lie knew the contents of her brother's
will. John had often told her that he consulted the
ship broker on almost every matter connected with
business, and on such an important matter as the
division of his property he was certain to have asked
the advice, or at all events the opinion, of Butler.

When she came to think over everything coolly
and reasonably, Miss Walsh could not but decide that
she would be much better off if no will were in existence.
Her brother, she was sure, was wealthy ;
they had never been on very friendly terms ; he was
straightforward, and he had always warned hers not
to expect too much from him. Although he had not
got on well with his wife, he was, after a fashion, in
love with her ; and though he might have quarrelled
with her, he was much more likely to leave the bulk
•of his money to a woman he loved than to a woman
he did not love.

Looking at the matter from every point of view,
there was no doubt. Miss Walsh decided, that the absence
of a will would leave her in a better position
than the existence of one. Now, what ought she do ?
Mrs M'Cormick and herself were the only people
likely to be benefited by the will — her brother had

no other relatives living — and his best friend, Butler ^
was wealthy, and it would not occur to her brother
to leave money to one who did not require it. The
best thing, therefore, was to try and come to some
arrangement with Mrs M'Cormick. If she could induce
her to agree that in the event of the wall turning
up by-and-by, she would ignore it, and let matters
stand at half and half, no matter which of them
would be the loser by such an arrangement (Miss
Walsh had no doubt she would not be the loser), it
would prevent any vigorous search being made for
the missing will. Butler had already offered a large
reward for it, and he would not have done so did he
not know that Mrs M'Cormick would be the most
benefited by it. Moreover, if she had only the prospect
of getting half of her brother's money, she
would have no difficulty in finding a husband in the
master of the Greenback, and in a vague sort of way
she was in love with Nixon.

She decided finally, after a restless, anxious night,,
to wait upon the ship broker. She felt that it would
be best to approach Mrs M'Cormick through him.

Butler received her coldly, and after listening
patiently, first to her apologies for her rudeness on

a former occasion, and then to her proposals concerning
the disposition of M'Cormick's money, he told her
that he could not consent to lay any proposition so
absurd before Mrs M'Cormick.

In the first place, Miss Walsh," said he, " there is
no certainty that your brother is lost. Then, there
may be many people mentioned in his will, and I
have very strong hopes the document will be found
some day. Wills are seldom destroyed. Whoever
took this one took it for a purpose, I am certain ; and
it is not likely that purpose was to do away with it.
Besides, I have reason to know that Captain M'Cor-
mick did not intend to leave you half his property."

"Then you know how he disposed of his
money ? "

"No, I have told you over and over again that
I do not."

But how can you inform me now that my poor
dear brother did not mean me to have half of
everything if you didn't see or hear what was in
his will?"

"That is my business," said Butler sharply.

Oh, I see, it's all humbug ! " cried Miss Walsh,
rising. She had completely lost her temper.

"Yourself and Mrs M'Cormick want to frighten me
by pretending you have some trump card up your
sleeve ! but I'll show you that Til win the game
yet. You think you have a fool to deal with,
and you want to beat me down ; but I'm going to
have half the money, and I'll show you that you
can't be playing battledore and shuttlecock with
me any longer. I have no doubt now you did
away with the will yourself, because your pet, Mrs
M'Cormick, didn't benefit by it as much as would
please you and her; and maybe I'll put both of
you in a fix before you're many weeks older."

Butler did not offer to speak. He held open
the door of the office for his visitor, and with a
glance of anger and scorn Miss Walsh swept past
him.

The landlady, instead of returning to the " Bold
Dragoon," went on board the Greenback and asked
Nixon what she ought to do.

The New Brunswicker was somewhat startled
when he saw Miss Walsh coming towards his ship,
especially with her countenance pointing at "very
stormy." For some days Madden and he had seen
a good deal of each other. Every moment Madden

would spare from his business he spent on board
the Greenback. Each man was a revelation to the
other. Nixon's sublime conceit and sublime gullibility
delighted the ship broker's clerk ; and Madden's
unfailing fund of high spirits, and his evident
belief in the mental superiority of Angus E. Nixon,
delighted the master of the Greenback. Moreover,
the skipper was flattered that a man of Madden's
^' parts," as he would term it, should single him
out for special marks of friendship.

Madden spun yarns by the yard to Nixon, and
to every yarn one moral was attached, to wit —
there is on the face of the globe no man more
clever than Arthur Madden : no man more trustworthy
as a friend, more dangerous as an enemy.

The pair had frequently discussed the burglary
at Butler's. Nixon's interest in the matter was
confined to the loss of the will. He had made up
his mind to propose for Miss Walsh, provided the
landlady was likely to come in for a good slice of
money by her brother's death, and in a roundabout
way he endeavoured to elicit from Madden what
Butler's opinion of the case was. On this point, however,
he failed to obtain any definite information

Madden told him to make his mind easy about one
thing, namely, that if the will had not been utterly
destroyed he would unearth it. He assured Nixon
he was making inquiries secretly, and though his
inquiries had, up to the present, resulted in nothing,,
he was confident he would be successful eventually.

However, you must not breathe a word of what
I tell you to anyone," said Madden. "If I were
in Miss Walsh's place, I would make no move of
any kind for a little time. If the will is destroyed
she will be all right, and if it is discovered, depend
upon it, the discoverer will be myself, and then we
can talk business."

Nixon firmly believed in Madden. Therefore,
when the landlady of the " Bold Dragoon " asked
the astute New Brunswicker what course she ought
to adopt, he recommended a policy of inaction.
You depend upon me. I'm telling you straight
the correct thing to do. I know just a trifle ; but
I must keep my jaws fast for a bit," he said, with
a cunning leer. " I takes a deep interest in you
I do ; and when I says a thing, I says it."

Miss Walsh burst into a flood of tears, and declared
that this profession of sympathy for her in

her hour of trouble had quite overcome her. Nixon
was, naturally enough, obliged to comfort her with
further expressions of his esteem and sympathy, and
before Miss Julia Walsh left the Greenback's cabin
it was decided that she should take the earliest opportunity
of changing her name. It would, they agreed,,
show a want of respect to the memory of the landlady's
brother if the date of the wedding were not
postponed for a few months.

When the engaged couple came on deck a large
ship, which had been lying at anchor in the stream
when Miss Walsh went on board the Greenback, was
now under weigh with a tug-boat ahead.

The Atlanta ! " said Nixon, pointing. " Bully
ship ! "

Young Dalton's vessel. I think he and my dear
sister-in-law are playing a nice quiet game — with all
Mistress Susan's innocent looks. It would almost
serve her right if my brother were to turn up again."

"Not much fear of that, Julia. Guess he'd be
rather a wet sort of soul if he were to pay you a
visit now," laughed Nixon. Then feeling that it
was highly irreverent to indulge in merriment at
the expense of a dead relative, even if he were

IN ONE TOWN.

only a dead relative prospectively, he added, with
a solemn face, — " Poor fellow ! He's sailing in cano



other craft now, he is, where there are no more
shoals or shipwrecks, no more fog-horns nor port
charges, and," after a momentary pause, "no icebergs."


Miss Walsh was deeply affected by Nixon's pathos.
She wiped a tear from her eyes, and sighed.

Ay, indeed, Angus ! "

By the way, Julia," said Angus, " I hear they've
caught that long, solemn-looking gent as the Atlanta
was consigned to — what's his name ? "

Sutcliffe. Is that so ? "

Ay. So I heard this morning ; and Mr Madden
tells me Captain Dalton will come in for a tidy bit
of money over the job. Seems as how Sutcliffe
robbed his governor — Dalton's governor — long ago.
You all appear a pretty tidy lot of people here,"
he chuckled. "But it ain't the straight thing in
the long run, thieving ain't," added Angus, fearful
lest his lady-love might think he approved of
peculation.

IN WHICH CAPTAIN NIXON FALLS INTO A TRAP.

■'^ FEW days after Nixon had been accepted
by Miss Walsh, the Greenback
was discharged, and the ballast barges
were alongside. The skipper had decided upon proceeding
in ballast to Greenock, where he was offered
a cargo back for Sloughford.

There ought to be some smart folk around there"'
reflected Nixon, as he sat at his cabin-table, smoking
a good cigar and sipping weak rum and water ; " not
like those smooth - faced long - shore skunks in this
blessed shop. I'll be more in my element there, and
it will be a pleasure, it will, to meet with men of my
own mettle, and have some stand-up fights with them
brain ai^en brain. That's how I like it — brain ap'en
brain. I feels limp all over, I do, at the notion of

leaving this port without having got right to windward
of a solitary soul. I'd give about half an eye
to show the folks here what a man is who knows
his way right along when he meets a man — not a
thing like that tug-boat captain ; nor an old resurrected
mummy like that talisman; nor a red-hot jackass like
that con-signed of mine, who has gone and charged
me seven pounds fourteen shillings for short delivery.
I don't take no account of that sea pilot who took
the wind out of my sails before I was well inside the
harbour, for I don't reckon the simple old coon was
trying on a game with Angus R. Nixon. Anyhow, I
forgive him ; but as for the others, I just wish I could
ship 'em right afore the mast in the Greenback, that's
all. I'd make it pretty comfortable for 'em, I would.
Dang 'em ! "

And standing up, the skipper struck the cabin table
such a heavy blow that one of the leaves of the table,
a rum decanter, a water jug, and an empty tumbler
came with a crash to the floor. Hissing out a good
triangular oath. Captain Nixon picked up the broken
piece of table, laid it in a locker, and kicked the glassware
under the broken table. Then he ascended the
cabin stairs.

It was dusk. All the crew having obtained leave
from the skipper, had gone ashore as soon as they had
washed down the decks. After taking a few turns
up and down the poop, Nixon thought he heard a
slight noise in the fore part of the ship,

Who's there ? " he shouted.

"It's only me, captain. It's only me," was the
whining reply, as a sharp-visaged little man, about
fifty years of age, advanced towards the break of the
poop with a shambling gait.

And who the deuce are you ? What business have
you here at this time of day ? Why don't you answer
me ? " shouted Captain Nixon, jumping off the
poop and seizing the little man roughly by the
shoulder.

Aise, captain. I can explain, if you'll stop shaken'
the breath out of me. Sure I'm only waiting' aboard
to see one of your sailors, Jake Macharney."

See Macharney ! What about ? What's your
name, and what's your game ? "

"Mr Michael Halligan, captain, is my name; but
they mostly calls me plain Mike."

Come now, plain Mike, what have you been stealing
here ? "

Stealing here ! Is it for a born fool you take me,,
to come aboard the Greenback with yourself in charge
of her thryin' for to make a haul ? Ah, captain, captain
! I have more sense than that, I can tell you."

Nixon was not quite satisfied with Halligan's
declaration of innocence, so he searched him carefully,
but found the little man had nothing concealed
about him.

"Waal, what's your business with Jake Macharney ?'"

Oh, my fine man ! maybe 'tis to get the decent
boy into trouble I would if I made a lane breast
of it ; for 'tis the terror of the sea I'm told you
are — the terror of the sea ! "

Captain Nixon felt flattered. He released
Halligan, and stared at him.

You bet I'm just that, Mike. And now, your
business here ? Quick, for time is money, I guess
with Angus R. Nixon — that's me, Michael."

Begor, you needn't be guessing' that at all ;
you may be martin sure of it — and more power to
your elbow, captain. I've heard a dale about you,
captain, ashore, from some of your crew ; and I'm
told you're the most knowledgable seafaring man
that ever broke hard bread."

Right, Mike ! I ain't particular smart ; but I
know my way about, just a trifle."

It's only your modesty says that, if you'll pardon
me for being so free with you. Ah, captain, 'tis a
grand thing to have the brains, an' no mistake."

You bet it is, Mike. There ain't much of that
article knocking around in your port, outside the
shambles, I reckon."

Brains, is it ? Ah, my dear man, 'tis saying that
you may."

But come, Mr Mike, what's your little game with
Macharney ? "

Well, captain, 'tis neither more nor less than lihis
for I know there's no use in thryin' to make you
believe anything but the plain honest truth — but,
captain, promise me you won't get me into trouble,
a poor old sinner like me that never did you hurt
or harm."

I'll con-side that, when I know your business
exactly."

Well, it's just this, captain ; the poor boy wants

some clothes and other curiosities of the port, and

he can't afford to throw away much money, so when

he told me his trouble, I tuk compassion on him,
VOL. II. F

and I promised to get him the things dirt chape,
and that's what brings me aboard now."

And what special qual-indications have you got
for selling things dirt cheap ? "

Ah, that's the grand secret, captain ; and that's
where I'm thrown' myself on your honour's mercy ;
but I feels sure a man of your parts wouldn't injure
a poor chap that's down on his luck. No, " continued
Halligan, apparently communing with himself, "tis
too big a heart he has for that."

You can trust me, Mike, as if I was your own
mother's son; for Angus R. Nixon — that's me,
Michael — was never known to break trust with no
man that threw himself on his mercy. Come, spell it
out, Mike."

Begor, there isn't much occasion for me to do
that same ; anyhow, I'm not book-learned like yourself,
captain, but I'm told they spells it in a
hundred different ways. The facts is, I gets things
now and again party chape. There isn't much money
changes hands, but there's a dale of anxiety of
mind."

Waal," grinned Nixon. " You're about the coolest
card in the form of a long-shore professional

thief that ever I've corned across, and I've met some
pretty tidy chaps in your line of business, Michael.
I make no doubt you was just a- trying your hand
there forrard when I shouted. Sorry I disturbed
you in the discharge of your professional duties."

"Well now, captain, do you think I'd be likely
to be such an out-and-out omadhaivn as to tell you
what my profession, as you calls it, was, if I meant
hurt or harm to anything in your beautiful little
ship. Now, ax yourself that question ; and if you're
the knowledgable man I takes you to be, you can
aise find an answer."

"Waal, I don't mind con-lessing to you that I
know you don't come aboard a-purpose to steal
things out of this ship; but you might be tempted
too much. I can read a man like a book, I can,
Mike. And I rather likes a feller who ain't ashamed
to own his line of business, whatever it may be.
'Tis a good thing to see about a man, Mike. But,
all the same, it strikes me you ought to be handed
over right away to the authorities," said Captain
Nixon, with an ugly grin.

Ah, captain, darling', sure you wouldn't do a turn
like that on a poor old man?" whined Halligan,

lifting both hands in supplication, and almost going
his knees.

Yes, Mike, I think that's about my booty to the
State."

Ah, be merciful, captain ! and if you stands
by me, I can put up a rale good thing in your way ;
and as you're going to sail in a few days, the dickens a
one can ever trace the property, if you only keeps
a close tongue in your head, and sure that 'ud be
no trouble to you."

Just let me hear all about this good thing, then ;
come, stand up, man ! "

Would you like a beautiful bran' new foresail —
just your own fit — for a song ? Regular dirt cheap,"
whispered Halligan.

The skipper paused, and throwing away a cigar
butt, put a plug of cavendish tobacco into his
left cheek. After about two minutes' reflection he
said, —

What's the figure ? Where can I see the sail ;
and when can you put it aboard ? "

"Ten pound; at my own house — I can give you
the bearings of it now — and tomorrow night,"
answered Halligan, in an excited, breathless manner.

Now don't you have me fooling about the streets
of your blessed town to look at a lot of stolen
goods unless you are cocksure them same goods will
fit my foreyard to a nicety. Ten pounds is, of course,
all moonshine, considering that I'll be doing you
a service to get the canvas clear out of the road.
Two or three pounds is a deal more likely to be the
outside bid you'll get from Angus E,. Nixon — that's me
Michael — pervading he takes a fancy to the article."

That 'ud be wholesale ruination, captain. The
sail 'ud be worth a ten pound note, almost, if you
were to sell it to a rag man. I'll guarantee twill
fit your foreyard to a nicety, for it came out of
a ship the same build and tonnage as your own,
and there never was such a bargain offered since
Adam was a boy. There isn't a hair turned on it,
and you'll be buying it with tarpaulin' coverings
and all complete, just as if it came out of a sail-maker's
loft. 'Tis the grandest bargain you ever
heard tell of, and 'twas your luck to meet me this
night, for I have that very sail lying on my hands
now for nearly a twelvemonth."

And how comes it that you haven't got a buyer
long ago for such a bargain, Michael. Eh ? "

Oh, that's airily explained, captain, darling' ; and
for the same raison it ought to be worth all the
more to yourself, my decent man. 'Tis first-class
cotton canvas, you see ; and you can't induce our
country ships to wear that cotton canvas, and of
course all ye American vessels is partial to it. Now
I makes no doubt your own sails, every stitch of
'em, captain, is cotton."

"You're about right there, you are. And now
plain Mike, you'd best leave me your private
address, and tell me when and how to get to that
same address. We'll talk about the price when I
sees the sail ; not afore, Michael."

To-morrow night, then, at nine o'clock. I lives
in Yellow Hill — the exact address is Angel Alley
No. 14. 'Isn't a very illigant or fashionable place,
but anyone along the quays will be able to tell you
the way — and, for the love of Heaven, captain, darling,.
keep it dark ! "

Do you take me for a cursed idiot ? " snarled
Nixon.

Indeed, then, I don't, captain, but you can't
be hard on me for being so anger for peace and
quietness."

To business, though ! How do you propose getting
the sail aboard, if I .buy it ? "

That's aise managed, skipper. If we agrees about
it, I'll get it carted down in the dark to another
part of the quay ; then if you'll have the ship's boat
waiting at the place I'll tell you, we can tumble the
sail aboard of the boat, myself and me son. Scull
the boat down to the fourth wharf below — you'll aise
know it, for there's no ship lying' alongside it — and
then you can make the boat fast there and come
up to my house and see the sail, and if you likes
it, why we can rowl it down to the boat, and there's
an end of the job — and 'tis a real beautiful bargain
you'll be getting, I promise you."

All right ! I'll do what you say. Now get ashore
quick, for I aunt going to let any one of the crew
hear a blessed word about this until the trick is
done."

"You're going' to tow down the day after tomorrow,
aren't you, captain ? "

Yes ; on the morning tide. Curse that tug-boat
skipper ! " he hissed. " Now git, Michael ! "

BITER BIT.

^I'^S^HE following evening, shortly before nine
o'clock, Captain Nixon called one of the
sailors, who had been desired by him
earlier in the evening not to go ashore, and said, —

You keep an eye on deck, Coggin, while I go
away. I have a bit of business to do. Mind you
don't leave the ship on no account, for I guess there
are some pretty tidy long-shore thieves skulking
about. The mate may be back before I return ; if
he is, tell him not to turn in until he sees me. Now,
you son of a gun, haul the boat alongside, and slip
an oar into her."

Captain Nixon sculled the Greenback's boat leisurely
down to the wharf indicated by Halligan.
There he made her fast to the wharf with a small

chain and padlock, and with the aid of a smaller
piece of chain and a smaller padlock he secured the
oar to the thwarts, so that a chance visitor to the
wharf might be saved the temptation of sculling
himself about the river in the brigantine's boat,

Now for Mr Mike," said Captain Nixon, jumping
on the wharf. He had during the day made inquiries
about the locality of Angel Alley ; so, once he had accomplished
the ascent to Yellow Hill, he did not
experience much difficulty in finding out Halligan's
dwelling-place.

He knocked with his knuckles at the knockerless
door of No. 14, and after a short delay a middle-aged
woman opened the door.

Is Michael Halligan here, missus ? " inquired
Captain Nixon.

"I suppose you're the captain of the Greenback, sir?"

That's about it. And I reckon you're Mrs Gallican,
ain't you ?"

Why, then, I am, sir, more power to your
reckoning' ! Won't you step inside, captain ? "

And where's the worthy Michael, missus ? " asked
Nixon, as he entered the little room — part kitchen
part sitting-room — and threw himself into a chair.

Ah, then, sir," replied Mrs Halligan, " I'm in
dhreacl there's something wrong this night, for'*
lowering her voice and looking around the room,
Mike told me to tell you not to stir outside the
door until he called for you."

Why, what's up ? " asked Nixon, a trifle alarmed.

I'm afeared, sir, somebody got wind of the bargain
he struck with you ; there were a couple of
peelers on the lookout for him all day."

Peelers ! — policemen you mean, I suppose ? My
good woman, don't you think you're going to come
the bounce over me. If there is to be any trouble
over this job, you bet Angus R. Nixon — that's me,
missus — will wash his hands of it pretty quick."

Nixon had started from his seat at the mention of
police, and he was about to make his exit, when Mrs
Halligan stopped him, and said, with a smile, —

Array, me darling captain, 'tis aise to alarm you.
There's no cause for been' in a fright about yourself ;
only Mike was in thread he might have to break his
word to you, and 'tis he that respects his word, I can
tell you. Ah ! you don't know Mike, captain. He'd go
through fire and water to keep his word, for 'tis the
fine honest man he is, though 'tis myself that says it'*

I have no manner of doubt of that," chuckled
Captain Nixon. " But what's the little game to-night,
missus ? My time is a trifle valuable, it is."

"There's no game at all, captain. 'Tis just this
way. ' Johanna says Mike to me, when he sees the
peelers in the alley, ' there's something wrong in the
wind. Now, if them chaps gets a sight of the sail I
promised that fine decent man' — meaning yourself,
of course, captain — ' they'll be seizing on it, and then
what would the captain think of me ? ' So Mike and
the son goes up to the loft overhead, and they hauls
down the sail — a regular beauty, sir, it is too, I can
tell you — and they brings it out by the backyard,
and the two of 'em, Mike and the son, are all day
thryin' to get it down on the quiet to the quays.
That's what they're at now, captain. Not a sup) ora
bite ever entered poor Mike's lips all day, he was
so anger to be up to time with your honour. ' And
tell him, Johanna,' says he, ' to wait until I calls for
him, and then the sail will be at the wharf where I
told him, and he can examine it there fair and honest.*
And there's the whole truth now, captain."

There's some cussed trick, there is, about the
whole job."

Trick ! Array, what trick could there be ? Sure,
as Mike himself says, ' If he thinks the sail won't suit
him he needn't buy it, and I'll make no complaint,
even after the hard day's work I'll be after putting'
over me ; for sure there's no doubt I didn't keep my
word exactly to the fine, elegant man — and that's
what's breaking my heart, Johanna ! ' Ah, if you
only knew poor Mike, your honour," sighed Mrs
Halligan. " 'Tis the simple craychur he is ! "

I'll give him one half-hour from this," said Captain
Nixon, holding a massive gold watch in the
palm of his hand, " and if he plays any tricks
on Angus R. Nixon — that's me, missus — I guess
I'll just keel-haul him for diversion before we
starts the Greenback from her moorings in the
morning."

Indeed, then you may, captain, if you have raison
ever to find fault with Mike. There isn't a thrice nora
turn in the honest man's body. But won't you be
having' a smoke while you're waiting', to keep you
company ? for I must go and look after some of my
washin' in the next room."

And tucking her sleeves well above her elbows,
Mrs Hallisfan retired to a small wash-house situated

off the kitchen. Then Captain Nixon crossed his legs,
lit a cigar, and puffed away in silence.

It was fully an hour from the time Nixon had
entered No. 14 Angel Alley, before Mike Halligan
appeared, and it was with the greatest difficulty Mrs
Halligan could prevail upon the New Brunswicker
to await the return of her husband.

The master of the Greenback was somewhat startled
at the manner of Mike Halligan's entrance. The little
man almost burst the door open ; then, with eyes which
sparkled joyously through a framework of tar, he
approached Nixon and slapped him vigorously on the
back, crying, —

I've done the thrice, captain — the sail is safe at
the wharf. Come along quick ! "

On the way to the wharf, Halligan (whose face,
hands, and clothes were veneered with tar and dirt)
and Nixon, who now began to fear he was being decoyed
into some trap, had a hot argument.

So help me, plain Mike," said Nixon, " if you're
up to any dodge, I'll twist your darned neck."

"Well, well," cried Halligan, shaking his head
solemnly, "you're the mast unreasonably suspicious
man 'twas ever my luck to meet with. What dodge

could I be up to ? I ax you. Sure if the sail don't
suit you there needn't be another word about it —
only you must allow, captain, it would be hard on
me now, after the terrible day's work I'm after putting
over me, i£ you went back of your word."

"And how do you think I'm going to examine a
-sail on a dark night like this ? I aunt the ship's cat,
I aunt. How's the thing to be done, fair and square ? "

Aise as kissing' your hand. That son of mine —
poor boy, 'tis fairly wore out he is by this time — hasa
dark lantern on the wharf ; and sure, a knowledge-sable
man like yourself can tell in a liffey whether the
canvas is a dead bargain or not."

Look here, Michael. I guess I'm growing rather
shy of my dead bargain. It don't somehow seem all
on the square to me ; but as Angus R. Nixon — that's
me, Michael — never broke his word to no man, I'll
give you three sovereigns for the sail, pervading, of
course, it's a brand new article, and will be about my
fit, there or thereabout."

Three sovereigns ! Do you want to squeeze the
life-blood out of me ? May I never do an honest day's
work again if I'd go through the same anxiety of
mind as I've gone through this blessed day for three

pound — let alone the value of the article itself ! It's
making you a present of it, I am, if I say five pound,
and that's the lowest sum I can take, captain. Best
lave it alone altogether ! "

Waal, let us see it first, at any rate, before we come
to any conclusion. It all depends on how I likes the
article when I gets a fair look at it. I'm in the
market ; you needn't fret if I'm getting a straight
bargain."

The pair had by this time reached the quay, which
was deserted, as Sloughford was an early-tossed town,
and in they walked silently to the wharf. There they
found a young man in charge of the sail, which lay
along the wharf, coiled up, and covered with a tarpaulin
covering. Nixon fancied the figure of the
young man — Halligan's son — was familiar to him ;
but it was so dark, and Nixon was so excited and so
fearful of the existence of some plot, that he did not
trouble to examine young Halligan closely — nor,
indeed, did he see any reason why he should do so.

Now, Johnnie," cried Mike HalKgan, " off" with
the tarpaulins ! Look alive, boy — this is the captain
himself — and there's no time to lose ! There now,
captain, isn't it a beauty ? " as the covering was

rapidly taken off, " an' you can see with your eyes
shut almost that it's just the length of the brigantine's
fore-yard. Open the sail out, Johnnie — look
alive, boy — and show the skipper there isn't a patch
on it. Flash the lantern along it, Johnnie ! "

I can't see the cursed thing," said Nixon, as the
two Halligans began to roll out the sail. " It seems
right enough, but I'd like a more prolonged examination,
strangers, I would — not that I doubts you, but
you know 'tis only fair business between man and
man to see that all's straight up and down. Here,,
hand me the lantern, youngster ! "

Johnnie, give the captain the lantern," said the
elder Halligan — " look alive, boy."

As Nixon was about to flash the light along the
sail, plain Mike uttered a loud cry of alarm.

Shut the lantern up at once ! Quick, skipper I
Here, give it to me. There's a quay watchman bearings
down on the wharf. If we're caught here, 'tis in
chokey we'll all find ourselves this blessed night.
Rowl the sail up, Johnnie — quick, boy ! "

Captain Nixon, in a fever of terror, was by this
time busy unmooring his boat. He had bounded ofi"
the wharf at the mention of the watchman.

Will you have it for the five pound, skipper ?
You'll never be offered such a bargain again, take
my word for it."

As I've said the word, shove it into the boat for
the three pounds — pervading the watchman ain't
spotted us yet. Be quick about it, if you mean
business 1 "

Captain Nixon, frightened as he was at the prospect
of getting into trouble, could not resist the
temptation of securing the canvas for a few pounds.
Even the slight examination he had been able to
make, satisfied him the sail was about the fit for
the fore-yard of his vessel, and that the stuff in it
appeared to be really good and new.

Say four ten, then, and over it goes ! " cried
Halligan.

Come, I'll spring another pound. Pass it along
for four pounds."

Oh murder ! " cried Halligan. " 'Tis a hard man
you are. Though it's like a martin' with my heart's
blood, I wouldn't break my word. Come, Johnnie ;
look alive, boy, before the ould cripple of a watchman
is down atop of us. Tumble the sail over."

Nixon handed four sovereigns to the elder Balliol.
II. G

gan, and, still fearing treachery, grasped Michael's
hand tightly until the sail had been rolled over the
wharf into the boat. Then the skipper sculled
swiftly into the centre of the stream, and was soon
under the quarter of the Greenwich

Make fast ! " he cried, throwing the boat's painter
over the bulwarks.

"Ay, ay, sir," replied the mate.

The skipper quickly clambered up the brigantine's
side and stood on the poop. The crew, he noticed,
were on the deck forward. " Why don't the men
STO below, mate ? " he asked. And before the mate
had time to reply, his chief slapped him roughly on
the back and then gripped him by the shoulder.

Waal, Mr Mate," he guffawed. " Oh ! I guess, I
do, I've had those cursed old Sloughford folk at last.
There's a brand-new foresail just our fit in the boat,
and I got it straight away for four pound. That's
business, ain't it, Mr Mate ? Oh ! ho ! ho ! ho ! "

I'm glad to hear it, skipper," said the mate, as
soon as Captain Nixon had done laughing ; " for
while we was ashore to-night, I'm sorry to report
that some of those long shore swabs came aboard
and stole our foresail — clean and clear away."

Jerusalem ! " yelled Captain Nixon, slapping his
thigh violently. " And where was Coggin ? What
did that red-hot jackass Coggin mean by leaving
the ship ? Oh, wait till I gets my grip fastened on
that all-fired idiot."

It appears, skipper, that young Halligan — "

Yomig what ? " yelled Captain Nixon.

Young Halligan — that's the name of the second
talisman our merchant sent here — told Coggin you
sent for him, and that you wanted him most particular,
at the " Jolly Sailors," which, as you know, skipper,
is at the other end of the town — "

Waal, go on ! "

Waal, Coggin, like the softy he is, took young
Halligan's word for it, and as he and Halligan were
pretty thick for the past week or so, he left the ship
in charge of that late talisman of ours. Coggin only
came back just as we all tumbled aboard to-night,
and he's down in the forecastle now, about three part
sprung, and in a mortal funk."

I'll spring him ! Get that sail out of the boat,
quick, mate ! Sing out to the men."

The sail was hoisted on deck.

There aunt no mistake about this," said the mate,

IN ONE TOWN.

as, with the aid of a lamp, he carefully examined the
canvas and tarpaulin. " That's our owen foresail, sure
enough."

It is, is it ? " groaned the skipper, throwing up
his arms. " Oh, Jee-hosophat ! Oh, plain Mike ! "

I

FIAT JUSTITIA.

HEN Nixon had sculled away from the
wharf, the man whom Halligan had
pointed out as a quay watchman advanced
rapidly towards the two conspirators.
Well," he cried, " have you done the trick ? "
Clean ! Four yellow boys ! " replied young Allison,
dancing a breakdown on the wharf.

Be quiet, Johnnie. It's no laughing matter, I
can tell you," said the elder Halligan, holding the
four sovereigns in the open palm of his hand.

That's where I differ with you, Mike," said the
newcomer.

Well, you see, Ned, it's the first piece of open

daylight robbery I've ever been guilty of, and only
you pressed me so hard, I'd never had the pluck ta
go through with it. I feel quite unaisy."

Robbery, be hanged ! " cried Foxy Ned. " Don't
you know there isn't a man in the port that has a
more tender conscience than my own self ? "

But when the Blue Nose finds out how he has
been done, he's sure to get me into trouble."

Make your mind aise about that, Mike. ' The
dickens a word of it he'll ever tell. His only
anxiety will be to get you to close your mouth
over it, for he wouldn't wish for worlds that the
people here would know how soft he is."

Do you rarely think so ? Stop that larkin,,
Johnnie."

Do I rarely think so ? " said Foxy Ned. " Why,
man, 'tis offer you another four pound he will not tolet
it be known how clever you done him."

But what am I do with the money ? "

Well," answered Ned, rubbing his ill - shaven
chin, " that's what puzzles myself."

I'll put it in the poor box this very night."

Not a bad idaya at all — but the matter wants a
little considering'. Come over to the ' Blue Anchors

an' we'll see what's the best an' the honestest way
to settle matters."

Foxy Ned and the two Halligans then crossed
the quay hurriedly, and entered the " Blue Anchor "
a public-house frequented chiefly by long-shore
men and coasting sailors. They found that the
small taproom was deserted, and ordering a bottle
of whisky to be sent in to them, the three men
seated themselves in a quiet corner of the room.

Now, gentlemen," said Foxy Ned, " without brag-gin',
there's no manner of doubt I'm the most knowledgable
of us three, so, before we enter into a discussion,
will ye agree to make me umpire, and to be
said by whatever I decide is the best course to
adopt ? "

We will," answered the Halligans, almost in the
same breath.

It's a heavy responsibility," sighed Foxy Ned,
and it requires a power of careful considering."

Whatever you do, be honest, Ned," said the elder
Halligan, shaking his head solemnly.

That goes without saying', Mike. Now as ye have
agreed to be said by me, the first thing to do is to
hand over the four yellow boys to the umpire."

After a little hesitation Halligan handed the sovereigns
to his companion. Then Foxy Ned fished a
wooden spectacle-case from one of his pockets, and
placed the spectacles slowly and carefully over the
bridge of his nose.

Now, gentlemen," he said, " I must put some
serious questions to you. In the first place, what
will it cost to wash the pair of ye ? "

Young Halligan burst into laughter.

Be quiet, Johnnie," said his father angrily,
"' One would think 'twas a matter for join' an'
grinning."

Be quiet, John," added Foxy Ned. " I'm talking
very solemn now. Aren't you prepared to be
serious ? "

All right, Uncle Ned," answered young Halligan,
endeavouring to control his risible muscles.

Come, answer me, gentlemen. What will it cost
to wash the pair of ye ? "

Well, to begin with, Ned," replied the elder Hal-logan,
" there will be at least a shilling's worth of
grease to rub the tar out, and then — "

Cut the matter short, gentlemen," interrupted
Ned. " It will take all five shillings to make ye

both presentable in decent society. Now, what will
it cost for a suit o£ clothes for both of ye — for your
present garments are completely ruined ? Come,
what's the figure ? "

Say two pound," answered the elder Halligan.

Very well, gentlemen, that's two pound five. It's
all plain sailing' up to this. Now comes the difficult
part, so we'd best have a long pull at the bottle before
we enters into a further argument."

After fortifying themselves with the whisky, the
three men smacked their lips, and then Foxy Ned carefully
adjusted the spectacles over his nose, and coughed.

The question now, gentlemen," he said, " as I
told ye, is a very difficult one to settle. It's a
question of wear and tear."

I don't quite follow you, Ned," interrupted Mike ;
wear and tear of what ? I thought we had settled
that point."

Anxiety of mind is what I mean. What's a fair
price to put on the anxiety of mind the pair of ye
have been troubled with ? "

You're right," said the elder Halligan, in a tone
that implied he had been meditating over the point for
Si considerable time. " That's a puzzling' question."

Consider well before you give me your answer,"
said Foxy Ned, grasping the bottle, and helping
himself to a jorum. " Be honest, of course, Mike ;
but be just to herself and the boy."

It's a puzzling' point," muttered Mike.

Don't be hasty. The night is young yet. And
while you're about it, you may as well answer for
Johnnie along with yourself, for the boy is too inexperienced
to know the value of the wear and tear
on his mind."

Well, Ned," sighed Mike, " I think if you wor to
say a pound, you'd be party near the mark — fifteen
shillings for me own anxiety, and five shillings for
Johnnie's."-

Too much, too much ! " said the umpire, waving
his hand.

Then put the price on it yourself, Ned, in the
name of goodness ; for I'm fairly nonplusshed."

Seven-and-six for you, Mike, and half-a-crown for
the boy, is what I considers fair an' honest between
man an' man."

"That's cutting' it very fine, Ned. Couldn't you
stretch it a bit ? "

I couldn't, and be conscientious."

Well, make it the half sovereign then ; for I
wouldn't take a penny that wasn't due to nie fair
an' honest."

Let me see," said Ned, rubbing his chin. " Where
are we now ? Five shillings for the washing, a pound
a-piece for the clothes, and ten shillings for anxiety
of mind. That comes to two pounds fifteen shillings.
And as the bottle is running dry, we must order
in a fresh supply. There's a dale to be settled
yet."

Johnnie, me boy, run out to the counter and
fetch us another bottle of whisky ; an' mind, me
boy, not to put your lips to it on the return voyage,
for that wouldn't be manners."

All right, father."

You'd best bring it back with the cork in it,
Johnnie," said Foxy Ned.

All right, umpire," cried Johnnie.

When the three had consumed a goodly portion of
the second bottle, Foxy Ned cleared his throat and
said, —

Now, gentlemen, the understanding' is that this
money which I hold goes into the poor-box — of course
after deduction' all necessary expenses."

Certainly," cried Mike ; " let everything be done
fair an' honest."

Well, after paying for refreshments," continued
Foxy Ned, "we have — let me see — we have one
pound and fourpence left. Now, I put it to ye,
gentlemen, could I myself — taking all things into
consideration — accept less than a pound for me professional
advice ? "

A pound, Ned ! " exclaimed Mike, " that's a dale
of money."

My dear man," said Ned. " I'd gladly take less,
but a professional man never accepts less than a
guinea for his services. However, not to be hard on
ye, I'm knocking' off the odd shilling."

But, Uncle Ned," put in young Halligan, " there
isn't a guinea left now, so small blame to you to cut
down your price."

My boy," said Ned severely, " you're spoken' ina
very ignorant way. If I stuck up for my rights
you'd both have to pay me back the shilling' that's
wanting'. I think, Johnnie, I over-estimated your
washing account — four shillings would have been
handsome ; but what's the use," he sighed, " of been'
niggardly about trifles ? "

A pound is a dale o£ money," sighed the elder
Halligan.

I'm surprised at you, Michael ! " exclaimed Ned
sharply. " Only for me you'd never have got a penny
for anxiety of mind — and this is the way you thrace
me now. It's very painful indeed, Mike," he added,
taking off his spectacles and wiping a tear from his
eye.

All right, all right, Ned," cried Mike. " Settle it
your own way. But how much is there left for the
poor-box now ? "

Not a great dale, I must admit," answered Ned,
a suspicion of a smile curling the corners of his lips.

How much exactly," demanded Mike. " For I'm
not a good scholar, you know."

Fourpence is the exact sum, gentlemen."
Begor, I'd be ashamed to put fourpence in the
poor-box. I think we might as well order four-pennyworth
of whisky, an' make a finish of it that way.'
For shame ! " exclaimed Foxy Ned indignantly.
I'd never rest aise if the full balance wasn't put in
the proper place. I'll take charge of the fourpence
myself 5 and see that justice is done."

"HOW DO YOU KNOW THAT?"

FEW days after the Greenback had sailed
from SloTighford, business kept Madden
and Eyan in the office late. In order that
they might not be disturbed, they had closed the
front door, and for upwards of an hour they sat writing
at the opposite sides of the desk in Ryan's office.

When they had finished their work Madden lit a
cigar, and wishing to avoid a conversation with his
fellow-clerk, he declared he had promised to visit Butler's
house the moment he could get away from the
office. Ryan, in a tone which sounded almost like a
command, and which sounded strangely in Madden's
ears, said he must insist upon having a few words with
him ; he had something to say, and the sooner it was
said the better.

Madden knew the " something " concerned his
fellow-clerk's sister, and thinking that it would perhaps
be better to brazen the matter out and have
done with it for ever, he consented to remain. He
had now definitely decided to abandon Maggie, and
was only waiting until he could screw his courage
up to tell her that all should be at an end between
them.

Since the night of the burglary at the shipbroker's
office, Madden seemed to have lost a good deal of his
high spirits, and Butler had frequently twitted him
about his listless, pre-occupied manner.

Ryan, too, had observed with pain the alteration in
his fellow-clerk. An uneasy suspicion, which he endeavoured
to dismiss, occasionally floated through his
mind. Then he fancied Madden's depression might
have something to do with the condition of affairs
between him and his sister. Perhaps Madden was
experiencing a sense of remorse. Ryan knew that
Madden was paying attention to Miss Cadogan, but he
did not think matters had gone very far, and he felt
very sure that Butler would not assent to his niece's
accepting a penniless clerk. Miss Cadogan was looked
upon as Butler's heiress, and everyone credited the

ship broker with the possession of a considerable
fortune. In the meantime, however, his sister was ina
sad state at Madden's open though undeclared desertion
of her, and her brother thought it would be
only his duty to make one final effort to discover if
Madden could be prevailed upon to marry the girl he
had promised to marry.

I suppose you guess what I am about to say to
you," began Eyan nervously.

I do. There is no use in pretending ignorance,"
replied Madden. " But again I must say that I don't
see what right you have to interfere with my affairs."

What right ! "

Yes ; I know what you will say. You are her
brother, and all that. You were good enough on a
former occasion to threaten me. I suppose you now
intend to repeat that style of argument ? "

You know I did not mean what I said ; I was
carried away by my feelings. But, Arthur, you
don't know how my sister's grief pains me."

It pains me, too, I give you my word. But it was
all a mistake ; I was too hasty. I cannot afford to
marry. I have neither money nor prospects."

If I could believe the only drawback was want of

means, it would not pain me — nor her — half so much,
but I think there is something else."

Whatever you may think — I grant you I am a
bad lot, mind you — my principal reason for my backsliding
is want of coin. Look at it in the proper
light, old man. It would be only misery for the pair
of us."

Why didn't you think of that before ? "

"You can't expect everyone to be as wise and as
full of forethought as yourself, Ryan. I was carried
away by my feelings, just as you were when you
threatened to make an example of me."

You are jesting now. It is not a laughing matter
at least not for me, or for her. It is disgusting to
see you treating matters in such a fashion."

"You're in a temper now, old man. Don't scowl
at me like that. Believe me, it will be all the better
for your sister to get rid of me. I'm a bad lot altogether.
Look here, Ryan. Do you think I don't
know what a queer, reckless sort of fellow I am ?
Latterly I have been thinking a good deal about myself,
and wondering whether I am destined to turnout
a complete scoundrel or not ; and, 'pon my soul

I fancy it would be better for me to sever my con-vol.
II. * H

section with Sloughford and all belonging to it, and
get away to some new country and begin life afresh.
If I remain here I am a lost man."

There was something in Madden's voice which
touched Ryan. Looking anxiously at his fellow-clerk,
Ryan said, —

I can't make you out at all, Arthur."

"Don't trouble yourself to do so. The game
wouldn't be worth the candle."

"The way you spoke a moment ago, one would
fancy you had been guilty of a crime."

And the way you spoke a few moments ago one
would fancy you considered I was guilty of a very
great crime."

I don't mean crime in the sense you mean it,
although — " He stopped abruptly, as if he were
afraid to say something which he had intended to
say. Then, after a brief pause, he sighed, and continued,
— " It is bad enough, in all conscience, to break
a poor girl's heart."

Better for a girl to break her heart — in the conventional
sense of the term, of course — than to lead
a life of unhappiness with a good-for-nothing fellow
like myself."

But — be truthful, now — isn't there another lady
in the case ? Aren't you in love with somebody else ? '*

Really, I don't think I ever knew what it was to
be in love — I mean the way some men fall in love —
with any girl living, except, perhaps, with Maggie."

Then, if you are not in love with Miss Cadogan,
you have no right to pay your addresses to her
any more than you have a right to break your promise
to my sister. I suppose," added Ryan, standing up,
^'your object is money. I am thoroughly disgusted
with you."

Don't run off like that. Sit down again a minute.
You jump to conclusions too quickly. Sit down,
man. That's right. Now, Ryan, if I was as mercenary
as you want to make me out, why should I neglect
your sister ? She will fall in for a tidy little sum of
money if M'Cormick's will is ever — "

He stopped suddenly, a bright crimson flush suffusing
his cheeks.

Ryan leant across the desk, his eyes almost starting
from their sockets, and in a whisper, said slowly, —

How, in God's name, do you know that ?

MOSTLY Retrospective.

HEN Madden was about to leave his office
the evening he had gone over to Bankside
to bid Mrs M'Cormick good-bye, it
occurred to him again that the safe, in which he
had locked up the gold, contained, in all probability,
M'Cormick's will. From Helen he had been able to
ascertain only that she suspected the will had been
left in her uncle's care, but Butler had never referred
to the matter in her presence. Of the contents of the
will, or of any particulars concerning it, she was
wholly ignorant. However, Miss Walsh seemed confident
that Butler held the will, and she had some
good reason for so believing.

Madden opened the heavy door of the safe. No
doubt he was now staring at the iron drawer which

contained the will. He knew that a few documents
of importance were locked up in the drawer, of which
only Butler possessed the key.

One cause of his anxiety to see the will — apart
from the desire to prove to Miss Walsh how clever
he was — was that he fully expected his own name
was mentioned in it. Ryan and he had frequently
performed services for M'Cormick outside the ordinary
course of business, and on one occasion Madden, half
in joke, had declared to the master of the Water
Nyviph that he would be grievously disappointed if
he should forget to leave him a legacy. He had been
slightly chagrined to observe that M'Cormick seemed
to place more confidence in Ryan than in himself,
and he had a jealous suspicion that, in case Butler's
clerks were to benefit by the will, the advantage
would be largely on Ryan's side.

He was, moreover, curious to discover how Mrs
M'Cormick and Miss Walsh were situated, and he
was anxious, naturally enough, to know if anything
had been left to Helen Cadogan. M'Cormick had
often protested loudly his indebtedness to the ship-broker,
and he might probably resolve that the best
way of showing his gratitude would be to leave

Butler's niece something to remember him by,
M'Cormick had, Madden knew, frequently met
Helen, both at Woodbine Cottage and at her
uncle's house, and he had seemed to take a special
interest in her.

At all events," reflected Madden, " it will relieve
my mind — and Miss Walsh's," he added, as if it eased
his conscience to take into consideration the anxiety
of the landlady of the " Bold Dragoon " — " of a
burden of curiosity, if I can only see for myself
how the skipper of the Water Nymph has devised
his worldly goods."

But what had he to do in order to learn the
secret ? The drawer of the safe was locked, and
forcing a lock was rather an ugly offence. It was
known that he had been left alone in the office, and
if the lock were tampered with, suspicion would naturally
fall upon him. The safe was an old one ; probably
the lock, which seldom knew the companionship
of a key, had been injured by rust, and would
yield with a little pressure. Still he dared not apply
that pressure.

He was alone in the office. The street door was
closed, the blinds were carefully drawn down. No

one could be a witness of his proceedings. He hesitated
for a moment, and then slowly closed the door
of the safe.

Although he was in the habit of regarding with
complacence acts which were tricky, if not absolutely
dishonest, he felt appalled at the notion of tampering
with a lock, especially a lock belonging to Butler,
He knew the ship broker placed implicit confidence
in him, and he did not like the notion of breaking
trust with him. For no other man in Sloughford
had he any real regard or respect, but Butler inspired
in him a vague feeling which was not wholly
one of awe or affection, but which had in it a little
of both qualities.

For a few minutes he stood staring at the closed
door of the safe, hesitating whether or no he should
abandon his design of opening the drawer. He had
almost made up his mind to go home.

But the path to Avernus is easy. Perhaps one of
his own keys would fit the lock. It could be no
harm to try at any rate. What was M'Cormick's will
more than any other document left for security in
the office ? Yes, he would try one of his own keys.
If he could open the drawer with a key, he could

close it again, and if he replaced the will no one
would ever be the wiser that he had taken a peep
at it. Besides, no one would be injured by his action.

He turned the gas slightly down and pulled back
the heavy door of the safe. From his pocket he
took a bunch of keys and tried four of them, but
none fitted the lock. Again he felt inclined to give
up the task.

There was luck in odd numbers. He tried another
key, and his heart throbbed violently as he found the
key turning slowly in the keyhole. He looked
around the office as if in dread he was observed.
Then smiling at his fearfulness he pulled out the
drawer.

There were several papers in it — mostly, it seemed
to him, old letters. On the top of a bundle of letters
was a tin case, to which was attached a small parchment
label.

He brought the case to the gas jet, and read on
the label, in Butler's writing, " John M'Cormick's will,
etc." This, then, was what he was in search of.
How stupid of him to have been so nervous !

Should he take the case away with him, or should
he merely abstract the will ? It would be better to

leave the case in the safe. It was such an awkward
thing to carry, and he might possibly meet Butler.
He could easily manage to open the padlock. He had
no key that would fit so small a lock, but he had
once seen a padlock prized open on the deck o£ a ship
when the key had been lost : by hitting the elbow o£
the lock a sharp, heavy stroke, the bolt would be
forced open, apparently without damaging the padlock
in any way. It would seem simply as if Butler
had forgotten to shoot the bolt. He went to the
fireplace, and got the bottom of the padlock to
rest on the hearthstone. Then with a swift blow
of the poker the lock was opened, and rising from
the ground, he drew a bulky parchment from the
case.

It was scarcely half-an-hour from the time it first
occurred to him to tamper with the drawer of the safe
until M'Cormick's will was in his hands ; but it seemed
to him as if a couple of hours had clasped. He took
out his watch, and, surprised to find it was so early, he
turned up the gas and sat down at the office desk.
Should he read the will here, or should he take it
sway and read it at his leisure ? He decided upon
.adopting the latter course, and, leaving the desk, he

replaced the tin case in the drawer, locked the drawer,
and closed the safe.

Then he thought he would take one peep into the
will before he left the office. He opened out the
parchment, and as he did so it seemed to him that
the handwriting was familiar to him. The words
were written with a slant from right to left. There
was no one he was acquainted with who adopted that
style of writing. Perhaps the handwriting was
disguised. But why should there be any disguise
about it ? and yet he could not but think there was
something familiar to him in the character of the
writing. It might be that he had seen a legal
document somewhere drawn up by the same hand.

He read the first few lines of the will, and then he
heard a sudden noise which caused his heart almost to
stand still. Placing the will inside his coat, he quickly
turned off the gas, and felt his way to the door. In a
fever of terror, he ran down the dark, narrow passage,
dreading every moment he should come across somebody.
He scarcely knew how he turned the key in the
lock inside.

When he found himself outside the door he felt
suddenly relieved. There was no one in sight.

He took the key from the lock inside and closed
the door. Then he noticed that the window of his
office was slightly open at the top, and he knew
what the sound was. How stupid of him not to
have thought of it before! It was merely the flapping
of the window blind. Cursing Foxy Ned's
negligence, he shoved up the window, and then he
walked hurriedly to his lodgings.

After his return from Bankside the same night he
read the will carefully, and having made a note of a
few items in it, he went to bed determined to restore
the parchment to its proper place next day. When
he heard the news of the burglary in the morning he
was astounded, and after a short deliberation with
himself he decided that it would be impossible now
to produce the will without attracting towards him
a suspicion that he had also taken the gold from the
safe. If he held his peace no one would suspect
him of having taken the will; even if the burglars
were caught, no light could be thrown upon the
matter.

For a few days he felt quite miserable and restless
and hourly stormed at his ill-luck. Only for the
burglary, all would have been right.

Then another view of the case came before him.
Perhaps it was all the better for him that the
burglary had occurred the same night that he had
stolen the will. Stolen ! He shuddered as the word
found its way into his musings. He saw a prospect
now of making something out of the will, and he
would retain the precious document until he could
formulate a plan. M'Cormick had sadly disappointed
him. He had heard the story of the Greenback's foresail
from Foxy Ned ; and, with an inward chuckle,
he decided that he too deserved compensation for
anxiety of mind."

When it slipped from him during his conversation
with Ryan that he was actually aware of at least a
portion of the contents of M'Cormick's will, he endeavoured
to pull himself together, and invent some
explanation which would satisfy his fellow-clerk.

Judging from the manner in which Ryan spoke,
he, too, must have possessed himself somehow of a
knowledge of the contents of the will. Perhaps the
smooth-faced hypocrite had been guilty of tampering
with the lock of the drawer. Or it might have been
that M'Cormick himself had told Ryan he had left

something to his sister. Yes, this was the more
reasonable conclusion.

Finding Madden was silent, and seeing confusion in
his face, Ryan again startled him by saying, —

How do you know that my sister's name is mentioned
in M'Cormick's will ? "

The fact is — if you must know — M'Cormick told
me ; but I promised to keep the information a
secret."

I am afraid — in fact, I know, you are not telling
the truth."

What do you mean, sir ? "

"Well, to be candid with you, I don't believe
M'Cormick told you anything about this will."

How dare you insult me ? What do you know
about the will, if it comes to that ? "

A good deal."

So it seems. How, pray ? "

That is my business, for the present."

Madden paused, and drew the ends of his moustache
inside his lips. What did this mean — what did he
know ? Fancy this weak-kneed creature developing
all at once into a bullying cross examiner ! It was
absurd. He felt inclined to laugh.

We have been making quite a row about nothing,
it seems to me. I suppose the fact is that M'Cormick
told you about as much as he told me. Why make a
mystery of it ? "

M'Cormick never told you about his will, for you
never saw him after it was drawn up. That much I
do know for a certainty."

Madden was completely puzzled. Could it be possible
that Ryan suspected the truth ? Would it not be
best, after all, to confide in Ryan, and placed himself
at his mercy ? He could depend on him. It would
be useless to entangle himself in a network of lies. He
could not now declare that he had obtained his information
from Mrs M'Cormick or from Butler, for he had
already declared he had his information direct from
M'Cormick. Bryan had guessed or knew something.
There could be no doubt on that point. What did he
really know ?

You have grown too deep altogether for me,"
smiled Madden. " Come, let us be straight with each
other, and have the mystery made plain."

Agreed. But, remember, if you are going to tell
me anything, I shall expect the truth — "

The whole truth, and nothing but the truth,"

interrupted Madden, with a short, unpleasant
laugh.

For Heaven's sake, don't treat everything so
flippantly. I£ you only knew how uneasy I have
felt lately on your account ! For some time I have
had a horrible suspicion with regard to you: but I
am willing to do anything to save you — for Maggie's
sake."

IN WHICH SOME OLD ACQUAINTANCES MEET.

HIS is extraordinary news about the
Bishop, isn't it, skippers ?" grunted
Captain Broaderss, the evening of the
day after Captain Flynn had visited Eosspoint.

Extraordinary indeed ! " exclaimed Captain Bendall,
shaking his head and knocking the ashes from
his pipe.

So far as I am personally concerned," said Captain
Arkwright, diving his hands deep into his breeches
pockets, and stretching his legs out at full lengthy
your conversation is of an eminently ambiguous
nature. What is this novel account of events with
regard to our friend and fellow-seaman Augustine
Lynn ? "

Well, well, well," cried Captain Carmody, in a half-scornful,
half-amused tone ; " I'd sooner try and work
out a square yard of logarithms, than bother my brains
trying to understand the drift of your remarks. I
wonder you wouldn't have sense, man ! "

I did not address myself to you, sir ; for your
nebulosity about matters of grammar and politeness is
positively fulsome. Perhaps you, John Broaderss, will
be good enough to enlighten me as to our friend Augustine
Flynn. I merely ask for information, and not
from motives of ignorant curiosity."

Broaderss was about to speak, when Carmody interrupted.
•

I suppose you have been studying the dictionary
very hard while we have been away," he said, with a
sinister smile. " Ton my song, 'tis better than a play
to be listening to you."

Let the man alone, Pat ; " said Captain Sullivan.
If Augyy Flynn was here, you'd be catching it hot for
your talk."

Oh, is that you, James ? " sneered Carmody, taking
off his cap, and bowing. " I suppose you are going to
take the Bishop's place now, and do all the sermonising."


VOL. II. I

Take the Bishop's place ! " cried Arkwright, £or
getting in his anxiety that he was not indulging in polysyllables.
" Why, what has gone wrong with him ? "

Well, as you ask in a natural way, like any Christian
man, I'll tell you myself," said Carmody. " He
has signed a foreign charter to-day, and we shan't
see him here again, he says, for years maybe."

I wonder what has come over him ? " asked Captain
Bendall. " Fancy a man of his time of life taking
it into his head to go knocking about the world again ! "

Ay, and in such a craft too. She is too small to
make money going foreign," grunted Broaderss.

But Captain Augyy doesn't want money," said Car-body.
" He has neither chick nor child, and by all
accounts he's fairly well off as it is."

The man is drinking, no doubt," grunted Broaderss.

For shame ! " cried Arkwright. " A more temperate
individual than Augustine Flynn does not navigate
the adjacent waters."

It puzzles me clean," said Bendall. " Perhaps 'tis
going out as a missionary he is. If a Hottentot
couldn't be converted with a sweep of his crozier or a
glimpse of his top hat, I don't think anything on
earth would convert him."

I wonder," said Carmody, " where was the old boy
driving to yesterday. I saw him mounted on a
jaunting-car, with a brand new hat and umbrella."

Oh dear ! oh dear ! " chuckled Bendall, visions of
fresh pranks with the new hat and umbrella floating
before him.

There's something mystic at the bottom of this,"
said Arkwright, who had been lost in thought since
he heard of the Bishop's foreign charter. " Why,
Augustine Flynn assured me last voyage that it was
his intention to institute a sale of his vessel and retire,
like myself, into private life."

It's well to be you, Arkwright — living ashore like
a gentleman," grinned Carmody.

I do not live, sir," said Arkwright, gripping his
trousers at the knee, and giving them a violent jerk,
■" I merely vegetate on a pittance."

The skippers were seated round the long table at
the " Nest." Broaderss, Carmody, Sullivan, and the
Bishop had arrived in Sloughford a few days previously,
towards the end of the southerly gale. Cummins
had fallen in love with the landlady of a
public house in Cardiff", and in his anxiety to bring
matters to a crisis he had lost his passage. Bendall's

ship was not yet out of the hands of the
carpenters.

The wmd has gone round right into the north,"
said Bendall, finding the conversation was lagging;
so I suppose we may expect skipper Nixon and his
schooner here in a day or two."

I quite coincide with you, Captain Bendall," said
Arkwright. " As I entered this house of entertainment
I judged the wind to be tantamount to northeast
and by north, which would be an equable wind
from Scotland."

What a drubbing the poor Bishop gave him last
voyage ! I am sorry you missed the fun, Captain
Broaderss," laughed Carmody.

I heard all about it from Tom Bendall," grunted
Broaderss ; " and is it true what he tells me, too — that
there is going to be a match between the New Brunswickerer
and the missus ? " pointing with his thumb towards
the shop.

"I believe there's no mistake about it," answered
Carmody.

Such statements should be received with a
grain of salt," said Arkwright, again stretching his
legs out at full length, and throwing his head back.

For the love of goodness," cried Sullivan, lifting
both hands, " avoid salt in large or small doses ! It's
after playing the mischief with me."

What ! " cried Carmody.

Yes," said Sullivan solemnly ; " but," his face
lighting up, "I have discovered something new — "

That the moon is made of green cheese, I suppose,"
interrupted Carmody, with a fierce laugh.

No ; it's something better than that. This ! " he
cried, drawing from his pocket a piece of sulphur.
■" Brimstone — cane brimstone 1 A man would live forever,
in a manner of speaking, if lie could only swallow
enough of it, and accustom himself to smelling
the fumes of it."

You'll have plenty of the fumes in the otherworld,
anyhow," chuckled Bendall.

Bendall's conjecture that the Greenback would arrive
in Sloughford in a day or two proved correct.

Captain Nixon was not in high spirits as he entered
the harbour for the second time, nor did he indulge in
the hope that he was about to prove his superiority,
mental or physical, over the people whom he might
come into contact with in the seaport. His intentions

were to conduct himself quietly and unostentatiously,
and to marry the landlady of the " Bold
Dragoon."

He felt that there was some risk incurred in taking
Miss Walsh to wife ; but so far as he could learn, she
would at least be left in possession of the public-houses
and she had saved some money too, she had assured
him. He had received a few letters from his ladylove
while his ship was loading at Greenock. The
gist of the information they contained was that the
will stolen from Butler's office had not been recovered;
and that the Water Nymph had been posted
at Lloyd's as a missing ship.

The skipper went ashore as soon as the Greenback's
anchor was down. Adopting the motto, " Business
first, pleasure afterwards," he walked straight to
Butler's office. Foxy Ned had boarded the Greenback
some distance down the river, and had informed
Nixon that he would in all probability find '' Mr
Arthur " in possession of the office, as " Mr Michael "
was laid up with a heavy cold, and the governor
himself had gone out of town for a few days.

This information pleased Nixon. He always felt
uncomfortable in Butler's presence. He would be

able to have a long chat with Madden, and learn
what were his opinions now with regard to the
partition of Captain M'Cormick's fortune. From
the very beginning Nixon had never entertained
any doubt as to the fate of the Water Nynijph and
her crew.

It was about six o'clock in the evening when the
skipper of the Greenback entered the shipbroker's
office. The gas, he saw from the outside, was burning
in both offices, so he knew that business was not
over for the day. When he reached the end of the
passage, he found the door of Madden's office closed.
The door of Ryan's office stood wide open, so he
turned to the right.

Captain Arkwright was seated at one side of the
fireplace, Captain Bendall at the other side. There
was no one else in Ryan's office. The fire-grate was
empty, but from force of habit the two skippers had
drawn their chairs to the fireplace. Both were fast
asleep. Captain Arkwright was snoring loudly, his
head resting on one shoulder, his arms folded on his
breast. His hat had fallen off, and lay on the ground
near his chair. Bendall was sitting bold upright, his
hands clasped in front. Occasionally his thumbs

twitched, as if he were about to twirl them. His
hat was on his head, and the leaf of it rested on
the bridge of his nose.

This looks like business, it do," said Nixon,
with a chuckle, as he gazed at the sleepers.

He crossed the passage-way and tapped at the
door of Madden's office. A loud " Come in — come in,"
satisfied him that his friend was still at his post.

Madden jumped off his stool as the New Brunswickerer
entered the office, and shaking hands warmly
with Nixon, cried, —

Welcome back ! You're the very man I was
anxious to see. And how are you ? "

Among the middlings. How are you ? "

Worried out of my wits. The governor had to
leave town about some private business, and we do
not know yet when we are to expect him back.
Then my colleague must take it into his head to
catch cold ; and he looks as if he meant to go on
sneezing and coughing for months. It's an infernal
nuisance altogether. Only that business has been
slack latterly, you would have found me, as our
friend Captain Arkwright would put it, incarcerated
within the precincts of a lunatic asylum."

What a jaw that same Arkwright has," grinned
Nixon, who now hated everyone connected in anyway
with his ignominious struggle with the Bishop.

Yes," laughed Madden. " Pity Samson didn't
get hold of him. He might have slain twenty thousand
Philistines with Arkwright's jaw - bone, for
he's a double-dyed ass. But," he added, " it is not
fair to laugh at the poor old chap behind his back.
He's not a bad sort in his way. But to business,
captain. We have got your orders here about discharging."


When they had talked about and arranged all
matters connected with the ship's business, Madden
said, —

"And now, skipper, I want to have a chat with
you privately."

Fire ahead, sonny ! Any news about this will ?
I'm interested in it a little now," he grinned.

I know. Now, tell me, are you going to marry
the ' Bold Dragoon ' ? — I mean Miss Walsh."

I think so. I don't mind telling you things, as
I believe you're a friend of mine, and knows how
to keep yourself to yourself. D'ye mind ? "

I understand ; and I hope you, too, know how

to keep your mouth shut. Will you promise me
now, on your sacred word of honour, not to let slip
from you anything I tell you in confidence ? "

Depend your life on me, my son," said Nixon,
stretching out his large hand and gripping Maddened
tightly.

Well, I heard that the police are at last on the
scent of the fellows who broke into the office."

They are, are they ? "

"Yes. So there is a strong probability of their
getting hold of the lost will. At least they think so ;
but I am on a scent of my own — a better one than
theirs, I think."

And what then ? How do you think it will
affect Miss Julia if the will is recovered ? "

The general opinion amongst those who ought to
know is that M'Cormick left the bulk of his money
and property to his sister."

And how much do you think the brother was
worth ? "

About six thousand, they say."

Phew ! " whistled Nixon. " So your advice tome
is — "

To lead the landlady to the altar before she

fancies she is worth five or six thousand. She'll fly
for higher game even than yourself if she once get
that notion in her head."

You ain't very complimentary, you ain't," grinned
Nixon.

I have not suggested that I think you are not
too good for Miss Walsh ; but if people find out she
is worth so much money, they will be putting notions
into her head."

"Don't you fret, my son. I was only joking a
moment ago. You may calculate on my taking
your advice, and I feel, I do, that you have been a
stunning good friend to me. I don't mean to forget
it neither ; for Angus R. Nixon — that's me, Mr
Madden — was never known to forget the man as
done him a good turn."

Again the skipper and Madden shook hands.

I must be off' now," smiled the New Brunswicker^
or she'll be getting it into her head, she will, that
I've got on the loose, or gone astray."

And Nixon laughed so loudly at the notion of his
going astray that the sleepers in Ryan's office were
rudely awakened.

A WEDDING AND A PROPOSAL.

she master of the Greenback lost no time
in acting upon Madden's advice, and one
day during the week after his arrival
from Greenock, Angus R. Nixon and Julia Walsh
were made man and wife.

There was some difficulty in arranging about the
marriage ceremony, as the pair professed different
creeds ; but the difficulty, which promised in the
beginning to be a formidable one, was eventually
surmounted.

No honeymoon trip was undertaken. The skipper
of the Greenback and his spouse returned to the
Bold Dragoon " immediately after the ceremony.
A dance was got up towards the evening in the
■" Nest," the largest room in the house, at which

dance Captain Carmody carried off the honours, his
powers of endurance and his agiKty being reckoned
truly marvellous.

Beyond the festivities, there was nothing to show
that the ordinary course of business at the " Bold
Dragoon" had been in any way disturbed. The
Greenback exhibited a gaudy display of bunting ;
but, much to the annoyance and disgust of the
newly-married couple, no other ship in the harbour
flew a flag in honour of the wedding.

Mrs Nixon rated Carmody roundly for his want
of courtesy and friendly feeling, and the irascible
skipper's somewhat ambiguous explanation prevented
the landlady from attacking the other master mariners
who patronised her house.

I haven't yet put the ensign half-mast for your
brother John, ma'am," said Carmody ; " not out of
want of respect for his memory, ma'am, but because
maybe his head is still above water ; and, do you
see, if we were to fly flags in honour of yourself,
it would — meaning no offence — be a case of putting
the cart before the horse. I hope you understand
me, ma'am."

The Bishop had respectfully declined to be a

wedding-guest. He had seldom left his ship since
his return from Kosspoint, and his friends found it
was useless to attempt to entice him ashore. They
were completely puzzled at the sudden change in
Captain Flynn's manner. Captain Broaderss charitably
insinuated that the Bishop was drinking secretly
and heavily ; on one occasion he even went so far
as to express his opinion that the pious mariner was
on the verge of delirium tremens ; but the other
skippers indignantly scouted such a suggestion.
They were saddened, as well as puzzled, by the
alteration in their friend. Even Bendall had not
the heart to play tricks with the new mitre and
crozier, although more than once, as he gazed at the
abnormal gloominess of the Bishop's hat, he was terribly
tempted to brush the nap the wrong way.

Sloughford, generally, took little or no interest
in the marriage of Miss Walsh. That portion of
the population which found a living at sea, or
which was connected with the seafaring element,
was indignant at the idea of a sister paying so
little respect to the memory of a brother, and
augured badly for the future prospects of the " Bold
Dragoon." Of Nixon nothing was known, except

that those who had met him had, as a rule, taken
an instinctive disHke to him.

But there was one man in the seaport who was
well pleased at the rapidity with which the skipper
of the Greenback had completed his matrimonial
arrangements, for he now saw a prospect of obtaining
in the near future a considerable money advantage.
Madden had learned from his fellow-clerk
that it was he, Ryan, who had privately drawn up
M'Cormick's will, and he had promised Ryan two
things as the price of secrecy, namely, that he would,
at the earliest opportunity, confess his wrong-doing
to Butler, and restore the will to him, and that Tie
would marry Ryan's sister within a twelvemonth.

Madden had no intention of keeping either of these
promises. In looking through some correspondence of
Butler's he came across a letter from Mrs M'Cormick,
and, much to his surprise, he learned that the will
drawn up by Ryan was legally worthless.

Before M'Cormick had sailed out of Sloughford
harbour he had made a new division of his worldly
goods. How he had devised them Madden could not
discover, but the new will had been delivered into Mrs
M'Cormick's hands by the captain of the Atalanta,

Mrs M'Cormick's letter, which he had found in Butler's
private desk, referred chiefly to the question of the
validity of the document which had come into her
possession.

Turning the matter over in his mind carefully, he
made up his mind how he would act with regard to
Nixon, and he chuckled violently at the notion of
middling the New Brunswicker so cleverly. He had
no doubt he could twist him round his finger. He had
completely lost his small stock of conscience since the
night he had abstracted the will ; and it was his intention
now to quit the country, and take Helen with him,,
if he could induce her to accompany him. She had
he learned from her own lips, four hundred pounds
settled on her, and this sum, together with five hundred
which he intended to get hold of, would start him
comfortably in a new hemisphere. He was sick of
Sloughford, tired of the dull round of work which
fell to his share in Butler's office ; and Helen was
very fond of him. He would grow very fond of her
in time, no doubt.

For Ryan's sister he had not only ceased to care,,
but he had even developed an actual dislike. The
notion that she was being seriously forced upon him

created a sudden revulsion of feeling with respect to
her.

With all his disregard for rectitude, he felt a qualm
as he thought of Butler. How he would despise him !
So far did his feelings carry him away in this direction,
that he decided to take no steps about any of
his plans until he heard that the ship broker was on
his way home.

If I leave the oflSce suddenly," he reflected, " things
will be in a pretty mess — the governor away, and Ryan
laid up. The governor is gone nearly a fortnight now.
I wonder where he is, or what he is doing. He is sure
to be back soon. 1*11 rest on my oars, at any rate, until
I hear from him. Poor man ! It will quite knock him
over to discover that I am such a scoundrel, and that
I have stolen his treasure from him. Hang it ! I
have half a mind to leave the girl behind, and trouble
my head no further about her."

The day after Nixon was married Madden met
the happy mariner in the ship broker's office, and,
after he had offered the usual congratulations, he
asked Nixon to pay him a visit at his lodgings during
the evening. He had something of the greatest importance
to communicate, he whispered.

VOL. II. K

Nixon arrived at Madden's lodgings about eight
o'clock. The ship broker's clerk met him in the hall,
and conducted him to a sitting - room on the first
floor.

We shall be quite alone here," he said, placing a
chair near* one of the windows for the skipper. I
shall probably have something to read to you a
little later on ; but there will be plenty of light fora
good half-hour yet."

Nixon felt there was something peculiar in his
host's manner, some change which he did not altogether
like. However, he determined to appear quite
at his ease.

You seem to have a pretty tidy sort of place
here, you do — if this is your own room," began
Nixon, looking round him. " Do you read all those
books I see hanging around, if it's a fair question ;
or are they intended," he chuckled, " for ornament
more than use ? "

I don't know whether I have read them all or
not ; but, as a matter of fact, I do read a good deal.
But my business with you is of such an important
nature that it admits of no delay — only, before I goon
you must give me your solemn word that you will

make no mention of what I intend to say to you now
not even to your better half."

I promise, as a man," said Nixon emphatically.

Mind you, it is a very serious matter, and in confiding
in you I shall be more or less placing myself in
your power — not," he added quickly, with a short
laugh, "that I have been guilty of any wrong-doing
but appearances would be for a moment strongly
against me if you broke faith with me."

You can trust me as if I were your own mother,
young man. Angus R. Nixon — that's me, Mr Madden
was never known to break trust with no man
born."

Well — be prepared for a surprise now — John
M'Cormick's will came into my hands last night —
strangely enough," he smiled, "the night of your
marriage."

What ! the stolen will ? Have they caught the
burglary chaps ? "

Now don't puzzle your brains how I got it. You
have a hazy notion, I can see, that there is something
wrong, — that I have not spot hold of the will all on the
square. Now, do you seriously think I would have
been foolish enough to have told you about the matter

at all if anything were wrong so far as I am concerned
? "

After a brief pause, Nixon, extending his hand and
grasping Madden's, exclaimed, —

"No, my son; I guess you're a bit too cute, you
are, for that."

"Very well; and now that your mind is easy, I
want to tell you that I have carefully read the will,
and I thought the fairest thing to do was to tell you
about it at the earliest opportunity, and then make a
proposition to you."

Why, what's wrong ? " asked Nixon, a shade of
alarm crossing his face.

A good deal. I was thunderstruck last night
when I mastered the contents of the parchment.
Thunderstruck, I can tell you."

Come, what is it ? " asked the New Brunswicker
excitedly. "Do you mean to hint to me that my
missus is left out in the cold. I'll not believe that
yarn, anyhow ! " he cried, standing up, and pacing
up and down the room, his hands clasped behind his
back.

Sit down, skipper," said Madden, who was sitting
on his chair, his elbows resting on the back of it.

'" Sit down ; and I'll read a bit of the will for
you."

What ! Have you got it about you ? "

Yes," drawing it slowly from the breast-pocket of
his coat and tapping it lightly with his finger tips.

Let me see it," cried Nixon, almost pouncing upon
the parchment. " Let me read it for myself. How
does it run ? Let me have a squint at it with my
own two eyes."

With pleasure. You can stand behind me and
read it with me over my shoulder," opening out the

parchment and holding it out of the skipper's reach.

«

Madden, in a rapid, indistinct voice, read the earlier
portion of the will.

Now," he said, " here comes your part of it that
interests you ! You see, M'Cormick left the ' Bold
Dragoon,' valued at fifteen hundred pounds, and one
thousand in cash, to your good wife."

Yes, I see," cried Nixon, lifting his head and sighing
heavily. " Two thousand five hundred pounds !
'Tis a turned side better than nothing anyhow. Ita
tidy lump of money, it is, after all." Then slapping
Madden on the back, " Why, you almost frightened
my wits out, you did, my son."

Wait a bit," said Madden, " there is something-else.
Read on. You see the money and the house
are left to her in case she remains single — if she
marries, she forfeits every penny and ever stick. It
was a kind of craze of M'Cormick's — "

Je-jerusalem ! " interrupted Nixon, with a fiendish
yell. "I'm fairly wiped out, I am. Fairly wiped
out. Fairly clawed up. Oh, if I had only known or
guessed this, I'd have chucked the tarnation woman

to blue , I would, before I'd have tied myself to

her ! Married a pauper I have, have I ? " he laughed,,
tearing his hair and continuing his quarter-deck walk
up and down the room.

You were in too great a hurry," said Madden, who
was intensely amused by this exhibition of Nixon's
temper, and thought it would be good fun to aggravate
the skipper's angry temper.

"In too great a hurry!" snarled Nixon. "Who the

urged me on but you ? Who stuck my head in

the noose but you ? "

Nonsense, man. I acted entirely in your interest.
You must remember I knew nothing of this will until
last night. It was a bitter blow for myself when I
read it."

A blow for you ! What injury could it be to
you ? You haven't gone and jumped into matrimony
with a tarnation sister of this Water Nymph
fellow ? "

No : but if you will look through the cursed thing,
you can see that I am left a paltry fifty pounds ; and
I assure you it was understood between M'Cormick
and myself that he would remember me to the tune of
five hundred."

Nixon stopped abruptly in his walk. He felt relieved
that he was not the only one disappointed by
this villain, M'Cormick.

"That's right," said Madden soothingly. "Sit
down again, man ; or I'll have to charge you for wearing
out my carpet. There's a way out of all the
trouble, if — "

A way out of it ? How ? I begin to doubt everything
and everybody. I think the cussed world has
been wheeling round the wrong way since first I had
the ill luck to enter this tarnation harbour. What's
your notion, though ? I know you're a smart man."

Sit down quietly, and I'll tell you," standing up and
good-humouredly pushing the big New Bruns wicker
into his chair. " You said a moment ago," he continued,

" that you have married a pauper. Now, that
was a bit of an exaggeration, wasn't it ? "

Well, yes — a trifle," answered Nixon doggedly.

You needn't hesitate. It is well known in Slough-ford
that your wife has saved a bit of money out of
the business — her brother interfered very little with
the receipts of late years. Now, tell the truth, hasn't
she somewhere about a thousand pounds put aside
somewhere ? "

Not quite a thousand," smiled Nixon ; " say five or
six hundred, and you'll be nearer to the mark. But,
hang it ! " he cried, slapping his thigh violently, " to
lose three thousand more as I had calculated on !
it's enough to make a howling lunatic of one."

You needn't lose three thousand."

What do you mean, man ? I can't unmarry her
now : and if I could, it wouldn't bring grist to my
mill, which is the chief con-iteration."

Listen to me," said Madden, reseating himself, and
holding the will in his right hand. " M'Cormick will
cut up for something over six thousand. If no will can
be found, your wife gets half the property. Do you
follow me ? "

I do, my son, I do," cried Nixon, a vivid gleam in

his eyes. " You are a whole man, you are. I see
how the land lies now, I do. You're a wonderful man,
you are — a whole scholar. What do you propose ? "
he whispered. "Who knows you have this will, if
it's a fair question ? "

Nobody knows whose mouth can't be closed. And
if everyone in Sloughford knew of it, what could it
matter to you so long as the will was lost ? — if I am
same to run the risk of losing it."

And you are, are you ? "

On certain conditions."

Name 'em, my son. Let us hear the conditions."

You see I am disappointed to the extent of five
hundred pounds. M'Cormick was an extraordinary
man, as, no doubt, his sister has informed you — an
ill-tempered brute ; and, during a fit of ill-temper
he got this stupid will drawn up. Now, if you hand
me over five hundred pounds, I'll burn this will in
your presence."

That's a lump of money," muttered Nixon, biting
his thumb, and frowning. " A lump of money !
Couldn't you make it two fifty ? "

Oh ! I am not going to haggle about prices, as
if I were a marine store - dealer," replied Madden

testily. " Five hundred is the sum I require. If I
produce the will, you lose more than three thousand.
Besides, I am really asking a mere trifle for the risk
I run."

How long will you give me to consider the
matter ? "

Twenty-four hours. If you hand me five hundred
pounds at nine o'clock tomorrow night, I'll
burn the will here before your eyes. If you don't
bring the coin, I'll forward the document to 
at once. If you mention the matter to
anybody, you will spoil everything."

Don't you fret about that. There ain't a man
afloat who knows how to keep his jaws fast better
nor me. And nothing less than five hundred will
satisfy you, Mr Madden ? "

Not a penny less."

HOME SICKNESS.

HEN Helen had been a week in Rosspoint
she received a letter from her uncle
stating that he was obliged to leave
home suddenly. She need not hurry back to town,
he said, on his account ; he did not know how long
he would remain away, but he would be sure to
write again a few days before his return. He added
that he would speak to her when he came home
with reference to a subject which was nearest her
heart, and that in the meantime she might be quite
satisfied he would do anything in his power to ensure
her happiness.

The morning after the arrival of her uncle's note
Helen had a long letter from Madden. The tone of

this letter did not altogether please her ; it was carelessly,
hurriedly written, it seemed to her, and the
writer made no allusion to his recent coolness. At
first she felt inclined to tear the letter to pieces and
to write to Madden in a manner which would show
him she would not tamely submit to be treated so
cavalierly. However, after a little reflection, she
came to the conclusion that Susan's judgment had
been correct, and that Madden was acting under the
impression that her uncle did not favour his suit, and
was deterred from writing as his heart would dictate,
through fear of offending or annoying Butler. But
why did neither her lover nor her uncle let her know
that they had spoken to each other about herself?
Why leave her in doubt about the matter ? She
would write and ask Arthur.

Susan had at first been angered by Captain Flynn's
absurd proposal, but after sufficient time had elapsed
to let her anger cool, she remembered the sad, despairing
cry of the Bishop when he saw that she
did not mean to treat his proposal seriously. He
had been undoubtedly in earnest. How strange it
was that for the second time a man with whom she
could possibly have no sympathy, whose rough tastes

and manners were so repugnant to her, should have
singled her out as a likely helpmate !

This thought again caused her to forget the pain
she had been obliged to inflict upon Captain Flynn,
and to feel a sensation of anger and bitterness which
she found it difficult to master. Helen saw that
something was fretting Susan, and she concluded that
the visit of the Bishop had disturbed her friend's
mind. He had probably been the bearer of some
unpleasant news. She determined she would speak
to Susan, and she was both surprised and pleased to
discover that Mrs M'Cormick was not averse from
confiding in her the cause of her newly-made trouble.
When Helen heard what had really been the object
of the Bishop's visit, she could not refrain from laughter,
and Susan sound found herself joining in the
laughter. In a few days the matter had ceased to bea
cause either for amusement or displeasure.

The doubts and fears which had distracted her
during the first fortnight of her stay at Rosspoint
had now almost ceased to trouble Mrs M'Cormick.
Sometimes her thoughts would fix themselves upon
her lover, and she would wonder where he was, what
he was doing, had his love for her undergone any

change. Though she had made him promise not to
hold any communication with her so long as she did
not deem herself what others deemed her — a widow
still she was surprised and vexed that he had not
written. If his love had been as strong for her as
** her love for him he would have broken his promise
long ago, even at the risk of displeasing her. He
might have sent a message to her somehow. Perhaps
he was at sea and could not write : but why had he
not written even a few words to her before he had
sailed ? The next moment she would feel glad he
had not written. He had always been so truthful,
so trustful ; and how badly she had treated him long
ago, how badly she had repaid him for his trust in
her ! He would not break his word — he was faithful
to his slightest promise. Such a man would be
faithful, too, to his vows of love. Nothing could
alienate his heart from her. How intensely happy
this belief made her !

Of her husband she seldom thought, — never spoke.
She had almost made up her mind that she should
never see him again, that the sea had claimed him
for its own. Every one believed he had been lost.
She had suffered almost as much from anxiety, from

the uncertainty with regard to his fate, as if she had
been mourning for the loss of a husband dearly
loved.

Whenever memories of M'Cormick came to her, they
were now associated with recollections and fears of
her husband's half-sister. Since the Bishop's unexpected
visit, she had lived in daily dread of being
favoured by a visit from the landlady of the " Bold
Dragoon." She often thought that after a little time
had elapsed she would, if no further news of her
husband reached her, sell her home in Sloughford.
The house at least was her own. It had been a
wedding present — the price of years of unhappiness.
She would then quit the seaport and leave
no trace behind. She could earn a livelihood somewhere,
somehow. It was not right she should enjoy
the worldly goods of a husband to whom she
had never surrendered her heart. She would never
touch his money.

Since the morning the news had been public of the
barque's supposed loss, Helen had never spoken to
Mrs M'Cormick about the Water Nymph, or about
anything concerning the missing ship. Like the
majority of those who had any interest in Susan

or her husband, or who ever took the trouble to
think over the facts of the case, Helen had no
doubt that the Water JVymph had foundered. She
felt that it would be idle to discuss the matter
with her friend. Besides the girl did not know
but that it would add to Susan's grief rather than
lessen it were anyone to try and dismiss from her
mind the belief that her husband would ever again
revisit Sloughford. She felt that this belief still
clung to Mrs M'Cormick.

Helen was almost certain that her friend was in
love with Dalton; but she was aware that Mrs M'Cor-
mick possessed a strong sense of right and wrong,,
and would endeavour to trample under foot passions
which might prompt her to act unfaithfully even to
the memory of a husband who had been forced upon
her, and whom she had never loved, never professed
to love.

When Butler had been absent from Sloughford fora
little more than a fortnight, another letter from
him reached Helen. This letter came from Liverpool,
and in it the ship broker stated that he hoped
to start for home in three or four days. He was
evidently in high spirits when he wrote. He told

Helen she would find he had grown several years
younger during his absence, and he promised her
he had a great surprise in store for her, and that
he had just heard some news which would interest
at least one of her friends.

What an odd letter ! " exclaimed Helen, after she
had read aloud her uncle's note. " Uncle has grown
quite mysterious. I must go home at once, Susan," she
added quickly, "and get the house in order. I wonder
what can be those surprises he has in store for us all."
Perhaps," suggested Susan, with a faint smile, " he
is bringing home a new mistress for the house."

Nonsense," frowned Helen, who did not like *the
suggestion that it was possible she could be supplanted
in her uncle's affections. "It is scarcely
likely, indeed, that he would think of marrying*
after remaining so many years a bachelor. I'll tell
uncle what you have said when he returns," she
laughed; "it will amuse him immensely."
I spoke half in jest — "

And wholly in earnest, to judge by your serious
face. Fancy," she laughed, " uncle getting married in
such a hurry, so mysteriously, without letting anyone

be the wiser ! It is quite funny."

VOL. II. L

I know you think it absurd ; but really when you
were reading the letter, it struck me — I don't know
why — that there was a lady at the bottom of Mr
Butler's light-heartedness. Of course, I am wrong,"
she added. "I suppose he has made some lucky
speculation in Liverpool, and means to astonish us
all with a display of grandeur when he comes back."

Very likely you are right about its being a lucky
speculation," said Helen, slowly and thoughtfully; "and
yet I don't think he would write in such a strain if
his news were only something connected with money.
Uncle is not very fond of money."

But just now it may have occurred to him that,
there being a likelihood of his niece's flying away
from him, it would be a good thing if he found he
was wealthy enough to retire, and hand over his
business to a certain friend of yours."

Helen blushed vividly.

"You want to tease me now, I see," said she.
*' That is not fair, Susan."

"I do not, indeed. What could be more likely,
after all ? "

Helen was on the point of saying it was much more
likely her uncle had obtained some further news of

the Water Nymph. Or perhaps, it occurred to her
next moment, it was something in connection with the
missing will. Her uncle knew that Susan would be
sure to see his letter. She must be the friend he
alluded to. It would be best though, she hastily-made
up her mind, to adhere to her resolution not
to speak to Mrs M'Cormick of her husband, or of anything
concerning him. Susan observed her confusion,
but fancied it could be easily accounted for.
Helen was, doubtless, pondering over the probability
of Butler's consenting to her union with Madden.
After a brief pause, Mrs M'Cormick asked, — »
When do you mean to start for Sloughford, Helen."
To-morrow, if you have no objection. And when
do you intend going back to Woodbine Cottage ? "

Susan hesitated a moment, and then she said, — " I
don't see why I should remain here any longer. The
place would be ever so dull without you ; and somehow,
strange as it may seem, I am growing a little
home-sick."

IN WHICH A FLIGHT IS INTERRUPTED.

Edward ! " said Madden briskly to Foxy
Ned, who was standing at the front door
o£ the office the evening of the day before
Butler's expected return. " I am going to take
a little country walk."

I'm right glad to hear it, sir ; for you're not lookin'
too well at all in your health, if you'll excuse the remark."


I intend to pull myself together now, Ned," laughed
Madden

I mean to have a good mouthful of fresh

air,

If you'd pardon me for been' so would, sir, I'd "recommend
you to they a little drop of whisky every
night going' to bed, and another mouthful before breakfast

in the morning'. It has a powerful effect on the
constitution, I can tell you."

I don't doubt it."

Neither ought you, sir ; for I've tried that treatment
myself for many a long year, and I'm the picture
of health, ain't I ? "

If rosiness is a legible sign, I'd back your nose
for health against any in the land."

Ah, 'tis join' with me you are now, Master Arthur
1 I know the nose is agen me, but it's a family
complaint, I assure you, sir. My father's nose, it used
to be said, would answer on an emergency for the
port-light of a ship, it was that bright. But they my
medicine, if you'll take my advice."

All riffht, Ned. And now, if I'm not down early
in the morning, you will know that your prescription
has had too powerful effect upon me. I want you to
tell Ryan — he will be back at his desk tomorrow —
not to be surprised if he doesn't see me here for a day
or two. I don't feel particularly well, and I may lie
up for a bit."

I'll tell him, sir. When will the governor be home,
sir, might I ask ? "

Some time tomorrow — in the morning, I expect —

SO I can be easily spared for a day or two. And for
goodness' sake, Ned, tell Mr Butler and Mr Ryan not
to go knocking me up with messages tomorrow. I'll
turn up if I feel well enough, and if I don't I won't."
I understand, sir. I'll tell 'em both."
Now, Ned, I'll be off. Mind you don't lock the
office up before seven — you can take the keys round
to the governor's house."
Right, sir."

Good-bye," said Madden, extending his hand and
treating Foxy Ned to a handshake, much to Ned's
astonishment.

There's something wrong altogether with Master
Arthur," he muttered, gazing with an anxious eye at
the retreating figure of the clerk. " I'll lay my life
that thief of a Blue Nose is leading' the boy into mischief.
There's some play-action' going' on between the
pair of 'em, or I can't see a hole in a ladder."

Madden had succeeded with Nixon beyond his expectations.
Not only had he received the eve hundred '
sovereigns, but he could see that Nixon held him in
higher estimation than ever.

With Helen he had not been so successful. The day
after she had returned with Mrs M'Cormick from

Sloughford, Madden visited her, and with all the passionate
eloquence he could command implored her to
fly with him. He explained that there were certain
family secrets — nothing, of course, to his discredit ;
but he was bound in honour not to disclose the secrets
for the present — which were the cause of his having to
cross the Atlantic at once. The time had arrived when
she should make her choice between her lover and her
uncle. He folded his arms and assumed an attitude of
defiance as he put this view of the case before her.
Finding that his words had little or no effect upon
Helen, he changed his attitude and made ardent protestations
of his undying love. Finally, he became quite
incoherent, but not before he had made up his mind
that the words ought to melt the heart of a stone.

He was surprised and vexed to discover that Helen
was not moved by his passionate appeal. She listened
to him calmly, and when he had ceased to speak, she
simply replied that she could not think of flying from
her uncle. Madden could not account for her coldness.
She had certainly been madly in love with him before
she had gone on that Rosspoint trip. Could it be that
Mrs M'Cormick had been setting the girl against him.

He was not aware that Helen had a visit from

Ryan's sister the previous night, and that it was the
tearful story told by Madden's former sweetheart
which had caused the change in Helen.

At length, finding entreaties and threats of self-destruction
were useless. Madden made a theatrical
exit from the room — an exit almost the same as he
had performed the day he had first ventured to make
love to Butler's niece.

He did not attempt to see her again during the
next two days. He was convinced he could not move
her. He was not altogether sorry he would not be
hampered in his flight by a wife ; and although he
felt he was at last seriously in love, there were many
considerations which would make it necessary that
his flight from the seaport should be a quiet and a
swift flight ; and whatever promises of secrecy Helen
might make, she would be certain to leave some trace
behind her.

After parting from Foxy Ned he walked to his
lodgings, and for nearly an hour occupied himself in
tearing up letters. He had made up his mind to
hamper himself with no baggage, beyond the bulky
pocket-book which contained Nixon's money, now
converted mostly into bank-notes. His intention was

to walk to the railway station at Stonehill, a village
distant some four or five miles from Sloughford. If
he started from the terminus at the seaport, there
would probably be many people on the platform who
would know him, and who would be asking him
where he was going ; and he was in no mood for
conversation. He would join the train at the station
next to Sloughford. No one there would know him
or trouble him. It was not that he wished to avoid
observation, but he was in no humour for being bored
by inquisitive friends.

Summoning his landlady, he told her he was obliged
to go out of town on business for a day or two, and
then he set out for the station at which he intended
to join the train. A brisk hour's walk would refresh
him. He felt unusually dull, and utterly dissatisfied
with himself and the whole world. He had been
truthful when he had informed the master of the
Greenback that the police were on the track of the
burglars who had broken into Butler's office. Confound
the burglars ! if it had not been for them the
safe would now contain the will which he had abstracted.
There would have been no temptation to
practise the fraud on Nixon if he had been able to

carry out his original intention and replace the wilL
The fates evidently had been dead against him.

Would Ryan, he mused, now that he was again on
his legs, and finding that he had been deceived, and
that his sister had been deceived — would the poor
fellow, in a fit of anger, disclose what he knew about
the stealing of the will ? Poor Maggie ! She would
be dreadfully upset when she learned what a scoundrel
she had given her heart to. Poor girl ! She looked
as if she were not likely to live long. Consumption
no doubt. Her white face somehow haunted him ashe
walked swiftly along the deserted country road
which led to the railway station. He fancied he had
again changed his mind, and that his heart was not
Helen's, but Maggie's.

He arrived at the lonely little station in an unquiet-frame
of mind. He found he was nearly an hour
before his time. He did not think he had walked so
rapidly.

A down train would pass the station about half an
hour before the up train arrived ; and as there was
only one set of metals, one platform served for trains-going
either way.

Madden was strolling up and down the narrow

i

platform when the down train steamed slowly into
the station. He had no desire to avoid observation
here. If there happened to be seated in the train
anyone who knew him, it would, perhaps, be all th
better, for it would not seem as if he were going away
under a cloud, as if he were anxious that his movements
should not be observed.

The train had now pulled up, and there would be a
delay of a few minutes to check the tickets. Madden
stood still a moment, and suddenly his heart leaped
as he heard a tap at the window of a first-class
carriage, and at the same moment saw Butler's
face. It was too late to draw back. What should
he do or say ?

The ship broker opened the carriage door, and stepping
out, helped a lady to alight. Madden heard
him say to the lady, " Stand here a moment, dear.
We can drive into Sloughs ord. Our luggage will goon
in the train." Then Butler swiftly approached
his clerk.

"Well, Arthur," he exclaimed, grasping Maddened
" this is a surprise for you. I see it is. And
it is a surprise for me to find you here. What is the
matter ? " he went on anxiously. " You are looking

bit queerish. Are you not well ? Has anything
gone wrong ? Why don't you speak ? "

Madden quickly made up his mind that he would
confess everything to Butler. It was useless lying to
him. In fact, he could not lie to him. He was tired
of duplicity ; sick of it.

"Will you come into the waiting-room for a few
moments, sir ? " he said. " I want to say something
to you."

Butler nodded, and quitting Madden's side, approached
the lady whom he had helped out of the
train, and who was now standing close to the two
men. He whispered something in her ear, and then
he returned to Madden.

Taking his arm he said, —

Now, Arthur, let me hear what you have to say.
I see there is some trouble, but we'll make it right,
depend upon it."

Butler's affectionate and cheerful manner caused
his clerk to feel more uneasy than ever. How should
he have the courage to tell this good, kind friend
what a blackguard he was.

They were now alone in the dingy little waiting-room.


The fact is, sir," he blurted out, his face averted
I am going away for good."

Going away ! What for ? Where ? "

To America, I think."

Oh, nonsense I "

It is not nonsense, unfortunately. Look here, sir
you have always treated me so well, so generously,
that I feel ashamed — "

What is it, Arthur ? Don't hesitate to tell me
anything, everything. You have alarmed me beyond
measure. Do not keep me any longer in suspense,
like a good fellow."

"There is no use in beating about the bush. "It
was I who stole M'Cormick's will."

"You who stole M'Cormick's will!" said Butler,
slowly. "Oh, nonsense!" he cried, quickly, shaking his
head and breathing hard through his nostrils. " You
are jesting — dreaming. Tell me you are only jesting""

I am neither jesting nor dreaming. Have patience
with me, sir, and listen to me calmly, if you can."

Go on, go on," cried the elder man.

At first I did not mean to keep the will — "

No, no. I knew you didn't. It was only curiosity
prompted you."

Yes. It was merely a fit of curiosity ; but that
cursed burglary compelled me to keep the will. I
could not replace it without attracting suspicion towards
myself."

Then you did not touch the gold ? "
No. I hope you will believe me when I say so."
I do believe you, Arthur. What have you done
with the will ? It is not too late, perhaps, to patch
up an ugly business. We can think over it. My
brain is quite in a whirl now."
He seemed slightly relieved.
It is too late, sir. I have burned the will."
Burned it ! Why ? What does it all mean ? "
His face was again contorted with painful alarm, and
lifting: his hands, he cried in tremulous voice, — "To
think that you, you could be guilty of such an act I
But," he added after a pause, "the will was useless.
You did not know that a later one was in existence."
Yes ; I knew that."

Madden then briefly told the story of the fraud he
had practised upon Nixon, and as he came to a conclusion
he took a pocket-book from his breast-pocket,
and, offering it to Butler, who had stood staring at
him like one in a dream, he said, —

"Take it, sir; give it back to Nixon for me. I
have sufficient money of my own to carry me out of
the country."

"Keep it," said Butler, slowly. "I shall pay the
money back. Take it with you as a gift from me,
and try to retrieve your lost honour. My God ! " he
cried, covering his face with his hands, " how bitterly
I have been punished for one hasty act ! "

You seem terribly distressed, sir. But I have one
thing to say — it isn't much, I know — I have never
wronged or injured yon wilfully."

The ship broker took his hands from his face, and
lifting his eyes, murmured, —

I thank God for that, Arthur ! " Then, suddenly
gazing with tear-blinded eyes at Madden, he cried, —
"You don't know what you have done. For the
second time my life is blasted — all hope of peace and
happiness is snatched rudely from me."

"How, sir?" interrupted Madden. "I cannot understand
you. Why should you be so upset about the
misdeeds of a scoundrel like me ? Forget me. Forget
that I have ever darkened your path."

I cannot. You do not know. Oh ! Arthur," he
went on, in a thick, rapid voice, " you do not know

what you have done. Perhaps I have been to blame
but I acted for the best. I was returning home full
of hope and joy. I foolishly fancied that my trials
were over, that my future would in a measure makeup
for what I have suffered. It is unmanly of me
to whine," he cried, dashing his hand across his eye,
"but I am almost distracted. I am growing old —
I have grown old before my time. For years I have
tried to bear my troubles like a man, to let no one
be unhappy because of my own unhappiness ; but I
can no longer keep my feelings in check. I had
many hopes and plans in connection with you — and
now I hear from your own lips that you are a common
swindler, flying from justice. My God ! " he cried,
give me strength to bear my fresh troubles ! "

Madden was awe-stricken at Butler's rapid, earnest
grief-laden speech, and by the look of anguish in his
eyes. He could find no words, but stood staring at
his companion, his arms hanging limp by his sides,
his hands trembling violently.

You do not understand yet," said the elder man,
in a calmer voice. "Look, Arthur," pointing to the
strange lady who now passed the window, " I married
that lady last week."

You married, sir ! I am surprised."

He spoke in a jaunty tone. It was a tremendous
relief to watch the smile which for a moment lit up
Butler's face.

"Yes. It is a strange story. You have never
heard it. No matter; I shall tell it to you now.
That lady is your mother."

My mother ! " exclaimed Madden. Suddenly he
guessed the truth, and looking up at Butler he panted.
And you — "

I am your father, God help me ! "

VOL. II. M

AN ESSAY IN POLYSYLLABLES.

Finding that Captain Augustine Flynn
could not be moved from his determination
to fly to foreign waters, his
nautical friends decided that they would not permit
the worthy man to bid good-bye to Sloughford
without proving to him in some way the measure
of their regard for him.

Accordingly a private meeting was held one night in
the " Nest," at which were present Broaderss, Sullivan,
Bendall, Carmody, and Cummins — the latter, having
drawn himself out of the toils of the Cardiff landlady,
had just succeeded in making a passage home. Nixon
was invited to the meeting, but as the New Brunswickerer
had not yet forgotten the hardness of the

Bishop's fists, he firmly but respectfully declined to
attend. Fearing, however, that he might damage
the popularity of the establishment of which he
was now master, he volunteered to supply gratis
the liquor which would be consumed on the night
of the presentation — for it was hinted to him that
a presentation to the Bishop would be made.

At the private meeting a good deal of discussion
arose with regard to the nature of the gift which
should be offered to Captain Flynn. Bendall suggested
an umbrella with a silver-mounted handle, and
Broaderss a brandy flask ; but the majority was in
favour of a meerschaum pipe, and it was finally* resolved
to abide by the decision of the majority. It
was also resolved that a valedictory address should
be handed to the Bishop with the pipe ; and as in
their heart of hearts the skippers believed that Arkwright
was the most scholarly among them, it was
suggested that Arkwright should compose the address.
The learned mariner was highly flattered
by the proposal, and coquettishly declared that the
task was one which he would have to approach in
fear and trembling.

"Now, Anthony," said Carmody, "there's a fine

chance for you to use up all the jaw breakers in the
dictionary."

Arkwright was galled by the tone in which these
words were spoken ; but the irascible Carmody's words
disclosed a vista of polysyllables ; and Captain Arkwright,
folding his arms complacently over his bosom,
declared he would, despite the sneers of Captain Car-body,
undertake the task of drawing up the address.

The night selected for the presentation of the
meerschaum was the night that Madden had set
out from Sloughford. Nine o'clock was the hour
appointed for opening the proceedings, and shortly
before the hour about a dozen master-mariners were
assembled in the "Nest." Madden had promised to
be present, and Foxy Ned had begged so hard fora
seat in the corner of the room that the skippers
found it was not in their hearts to refuse him.
Nixon promised he would look in occasionally during
the evening; but as his wife was out on business,
he could not, he explained, leave the counter
for any lengthened period.

The skippers were all dressed in their best; and
every man seemed as if he had spent a considerable
portion of the day in scrubbing his face. There was

n strong odour of yellow soap in the room, an odour
which vanished quickly when the skippers had lit
their pipes.

About ten of the mariners wore silk hats of the
most extraordinary and ancient patterns ; but Captain
Arkwright's was the most remarkable of all the
remarkable hats. It was about twice the height of
an ordinary silk hat, and it narrowed slightly towards
the top ; the brim was perfectly straight,
there was not the faintest indication of a curve
about it; and the surface of the hat shone like the
noonday sun, the light of which it had probably not
seen ten times in a generation. The skipper also
wore a collar which was quite in keeping with the
hat. It must have measured at least six inches in
height, and the heavily-starched points which approached
each other under his chin seemed ever
ready to bury themselves in his flesh, and made it
impossible for him to bend his head without inflicting
torture upon himself. A black frock-coat,
covered with wrinkles and creases, was buttoned
tightly round his spare frame, and he wore a pair
of iron-grey trousers several inches too short. On
account of the frock-coat he was unable to bury his

hand in his breeches pockets, as was his wont ; so
with the countenance of a mute at a funeral, the
skipper sat near the table in the " Nest," his hands
locked in front of him. He did not seek, nor did he
desire, conversation with his neighbours ; and silently
he sat in his chair, monotonously twirling his thumbs,
and brooding, no doubt, over the stupendous importance
of the task he was about to perform. As the
evening wore on he would occasionally unclasp his
hands and express his gloomy anxiety by rubbing
his nose viciously.

It may be well to mention here that Arkwright
had at first laboured unsuccessfully to compose a
farewell address to the Bishop, and in despair he had
opened his heart to Madden. The ship broker's clerk,
although he was not in a very cheerful mood at
the time, could not, through mere force of habit,
resist the opportunity of playing a mild joke upon
the unsuspecting Arkwright. He was well acquainted
with the absurd style of phraseology which
delighted the skipper. Some of the phrases which
will be found in the address written by Madden,,
notably the concluding one, were copied from the
old-fashioned Bill of Lading, and others were garbled

quotations from " The Traveller." Madden purposely
introduced the " Traveller " and Bill of Lading;
phrases, as he knew Arkwright would consider the
address more genuinely nautical on account of the
latter, and more poetical on account of the former.
He had once lent the skipper a copy of " The Traveller's
and as it was the only piece of verse which Arkwright
had ever read, portions of it were constantly
floating in a chimerical manner through his mind.

Arkwright was delighted with the address, and
he felt convinced that the reputation for learning
which he had so often sought to obtain would henceforth
be established on a firm basis. Madden* had
faithfully promised never to divulge the awful secret
of the authorship.

A few minutes after nine, the skippers, who had
been conversing in subdued tones, heard something
which sounded like a scuffle outside the door of the
Nest." They lifted their heads suddenly.

In a moment the Bishop, crying, " For slime
Tom ! How dare you ! It's the height of ignorance
1 " was rudely impelled into the " Nest," and
behind him, in the doorway, stood the members of
the deputation despatched to summon Captain Flynn

from the solitude of* his cabin. " Gentlemen," exclaimed
the Bishop, " I hope you will respectfully
excuse the manner of my entry ! "

The fact is," interrupted Bendall, who had been
chuckling violently, " that the Bishop wanted us to
go in before him, and we thought the proper thing
under the circumstances was to have him go first.
The man is shy, and no wonder. Oh dear ! oh dear ! "
relapsing into a fit of chuckling.

But you had no business to push me into the
room in that light and frivolous manner, Tom."

Oh, sit down, boys, for goodness' sake," cried
Carmody, " and don't be making such a row about
nothing. Sit down, Augyy. Never mind that play-actor,"
pointing to Bendall.

The Bishop sat down in a chair placed for him by
Bendall, who had now assumed suddenly the duties
of master of ceremonies, and was busy whispering
instructions into the ears of some, and chuckling " Oh
dears, oh dears," and lifting his eyes with mock solemnity
as he walked past others.

After the Bishop had duly settled himself into his
chair, and had drawn up the legs of his trousers to
the regulation height, he crossed his legs and yawned.

Then clapping his hand across his mouth, he uttered
some strange noise, which sounded like a suppressed
cry of pain.

There was an awkward pause after the Bishop's
yawn, and Bendall, approaching Arkwright, whispered
in his ear.

Instantly Captain Arkwright rose to his feet and
walked to the head of the table. He took off his hat
and laid it tenderly on a chair behind him. Then he
dived his hand into the tail pocket of his frock coat,
and drew out a scroll, which he carefully unfolded
and smoothed on the table, and then he fished from
the breast pocket of his coat a large chart-glass and
a red handkerchief, and with the latter he carefully
wiped the glass.

Look out, now, boys ! " exclaimed Carmody, his
face puckered with a grin. " You're going to have a
broadside hove at you."

No interruptions, gentlemen, if you please," cried
Bendall, who was seated next the author-presumptive
of the address.

Arkwright was silent, but he directed a glance of
withering scorn full tilt against Carmody. Then,
having put his handkerchief into his pocket, he took

up the scroll in his left hand, and holding the chart-glass
in his right hand, about twelve inches from his-right
eye, he began, —

Honoured and dear friend and fellow master-mariner
— "

A deafening cheer rang through the " Nest " at
the words. Arkwright took the chart-glass from
his eye, and gazed around the room triumphantly ;
the Bishop uncrossed his legs, drew the ends of
his trousers up still higher, and crossed his legs-again.


When the applause had subsided, Arkwright raised
his glass and continued, —

A rumour having been conveyed to our auricular
organs that you, Augustine Flynn, are on the eve of
your departure to fresh woods and pastures new — "

Stop ! " exclaimed Carmody. " Do you mean to
tell us that the Bishop is going to turn farmer ? "

Can't you be quiet, Carmody ? " said Bendall.

Pat," murmured the Bishop, " I must confess that
your conduct is very unseemly."

It is merely a figure of speech," explained Arkwright.
" Captain Flynn still intends to plough the
main. Ha! ha! ha!" And chuckling at his own

joke, he forgot that he had been interrupted or had
been angered by Carmody.

Go on," cried Bendall, nudging the punster.

Arkwright, clutching the handle of the chart-glass
nervously, raised it again towards his right eye, and
continued, —

Fresh woods and pastures new, and that mayhap
you will not again revisit the scenes of your innocent
childhood, the inhabitants familiar to you almost
from the hour of your nativity, it has occurred to
the undersigned that some fitting token of their
exalted estimation of your worth and sanctity as a
private individual, and your transcendent qualities asa
certified master-mariner should be conveyed to you,
so that, whether freezing under the shadow of the icy
poles or sweltering beneath the rays of the noonday
sun in the scorching tropic zone, whether the north
star guides your lonely path or the southern cross
beams incandescent over your nocturnal horizon — "

Oh ! be good to me ; I'm choked ! " interrupted
Carmody, making a wry face.

Sh," chorused the other mariners.

Nocturnal horizon," continued Arkwright, glaring
scornfully for a moment at Carmody, "whether

sou stand like the naked negro panting at the
line—"

Oh dear ! oh dear ! " chuckled Bendall, unable to
restrain himself at the picture of the panting Bishop.
^' Won't you allow the man even his top hat ? "

Panting at the line," repeated Arkwright, pretending
to ignore Bendall's interruption, " or like the
Tyrolean grazing his flocks on the precipitous but
verdant slopes of the snow - capped avalanches ;
whether suffering from accidents of the seas, rivers,
navigation, the Queen's enemies, fire, and all and
every other dangers and accidents whatsoever ;
whether struggling manfully against sea-pirates, or
succumbing to the treacherous wiles of land-pirates ;
whether in sickness or in health, in freedom or in
captivity ; whether bounding joyously over the unfathomable
ocean, or incarcerated within the precincts
of a miserable dungeon — "

Here Arkwright paused for breath, and lowering
the chart-glass, coughed a solemn and unnatural
cough. The Bishop looked the picture of discomfort
as he dwelt upon the dangers which were possibly in
store for him ; Bendall, with one hand over his
mouth, was openly endeavouring to smother the

sound of the chuckling which convulsed him ; Car-body
was gazing curiously and earnestly at Arkwright,
as if he could find no words to express the
state of his feelings. The other skippers were lost in
bewilderment ; they did not know whether they ought
to laugh with Bendall, or whether they ought to sit
in solemn and painful silence with the Bishop. Foxy
Ned and Captain Cummins had been so busy with a
bottle placed within their reach that they could only
smile and look foolish.

Clearing his throat, Arkwright went on, —

Miserable dungeon, you may take from its case
this silver-mounted meerschaum calumet. — An Indian
word for pipe of peace," he explained, lowering the
glass and addressing the company.

Then suddenly remembering that he was at this
point to present the meerschaum to Captain Flynn,
he dropped the chart-glass and the manuscript hurriedly
on the table, and thrusting his hand into his
tail pocket, drew forth, amid the cheer of the skippers,
the presentation pipe.

In the meantime Bendall had risen from his seat,,
and, taking the Bishop's arm, he led him to the head
of the table. Arkwright then, with a wide sweep of

his arm, deposited the pipe-case in the hand of the
Bishop, who returned silently to his seat.

Again the " Nest " rang with deafening cheers ;
-and, fearing lest the ceiling might be brought down,
Nixon entered the room, and crying " Sh ! sh 1 " took
his seat in a corner near Foxy Ned.

When silence was restored, the mariners, believing
the address had been completely delivered, were
anxiously waiting for the Bishop's reply. Arkwright,
observing that Captain Flynn was about to rise,
cried in a loud, affrighted voice, —

Gentlemen ! gentlemen ! A moment, please. Allow
me to proceed with the recital of the address to
our worthy friend."

Good heavens ! " exclaimed Carmody, lifting his
hands and looking horror-stricken ; " you don't mean
to tell us that you haven't finished yet ? "

Oh, let us hear the end of it, anyhow," said
Bendall, " in Heaven's name 1 We may as well
be hanged for a sheep as a lamb. Oh dear, oh
dear ! "

Yes, go on — finish it up ! " exclaimed a few of the
other skippers, eager for peace at any price.

Arkwright with difficulty controlled his rising

anger, and directing another contemptuous glance at
Harmony, went on, —

I left off at silver-mounted calumet — I mean," he
added, raising the chart-glass and consulting the
manuscript, " silver-mounted meerschaum calumet —
an Indian word, gentlemen," he explained again, " for
pipe of peace — calumet, and blowing a fragrant
whiff to leeward, blow with it odoriferous exhalations
of good-fellowship towards the port and harbour of
Sloughford ; and thus, while remote, unfriended,
melancholy, or becalmed ; while suffering from tj^e
fearful pangs of thirst, or famished with the gnawing
pains of hunger, you at each remove drag a lengthening
cable, may the concatenations of the same
prove as unlimited as the regard we possess for a
comrade who has never sullied the fair name of
Flynn, never brought grief to the heart of woman
nor shame to the bosom of man — I mean," he added,
quickly, '' grief to the bosom of woman nor shame —
No, no, no," he cried, focusing the glass and reading
from the manuscript, "grief to the heart of man,
I should have said, nor shame to the bosom of
woman."

Then, lowering the chart-glass and lifting his

eyes to the ceiling, he added, in a reverential
voice, —

And may God send the good ship to her desired
port in safety ! "

A cheer, partly of derision, partly of delight, rent
the air as Arkwright sat down upon the chair behind
him, from which chair Bendall a few moments previously
had removed his hat.

Arkwright had been seated for less than a minute
when he remembered that he should have presented
the cherished address to the Bishop. He rose, and
walking towards Captain Flynn, he bowed, and placed
the address in his hands.

The cheering had now ceased, and the Bishop was
gazing stupidly at the address, when Carmody recalled
the saintly mariner's wandering senses.

"Put that in your calumet," he cried, pointing to
the address, " and smoke it, Augyy, my boy."

Easy, Pat, easy ! " said the Bishop, slowly and
solemnly, standing up and glancing round the room.

Again the company gave vent to their emotions in
cheers, which Nixon vainly endeavoured to suppress.

"Gentlemen," began the Bishop. Immediately there
was a dead silence. Waving his hand, he repeated

in a hollow voice, " Gentlemen — and Captain Arkwright,"
he added suddenly. " Captain Arkwright
and Gentlemen, I am fairly overpowered by the
beautiful language which our humble but worthy
friend has uttered on my behalf — fairly overpowered
and — "

No wonder," interrupted Carmody, " I won't be
able to do a day's work for a week after it."

Sh — shame ! " from several of the skippers.

Try a little brimstone. It'll revive you," said
Sullivan.

"Fie, fie, Pat!" said the Bishop, scowling at Car-body.
" I really wonder at you, to be disturbing the
harmony of this entertainment with your nasty, carping
manner. And you too, Captain Sullivan," he continued,
shaking his forefinger at that worthy mariner,
"interrupting a peaceable and friendly discussion with
your jeering remarks about brimstone ! Fie, fie 1 "

I wasn't jeering. I give you my word. Captain
Flynn," murmured Sullivan, with downcast face.

Oh, hang it ! Can't ye all be quiet, boys ? " cried

Bendall impatiently. " Let the Bishop speak. Have

manners."

"Thank you, Tom," said the Bishop, smiling at
VOL. II. N

Bendall — he was not aware that Captain Tom had
already made away with his hat, and was endeavouring
to place it, in company with Arkwright's, up the
flue of the chimney.

"Go on with your speech, Augyy," grunted Broaderss,
*' and don't be paying attention to those play-actors,"
pointing to Carmody and Bendall.

"Well, gentlemen," continued the Bishop, making
a sweeping gesture with his right arm, " I own I am
fairly nonplussed with the language of this address —
an address, gentlemen," placing his hand on his breast,
which I shall ever wear next my heart — "

Don't ! " interrupted Carmody. " 'Twould fall in
through your ribs, it's so heavy."

Pat ! " said the Bishop sternly, " these remarks of
yours are scandalous, and show an amount of carping
frivolity which I didn't give you credit for."

Fulsome interloper ! " muttered Arkwright, spasmodically
clutching his trousers at the knee.

As Arkwright spoke the door of the " Nest " was
flung open, and the landlady, her face aflame with
anger, stepped into the room. All eyes were turned
towards her.

Angus," she cried, in a shrill, rasping voice, " I

must speak to you at once. You sit here as if nothing
was the matter, nothing — "

"Why, what is the matter, woman?" growled Nixon,
standing up.

Yes, ma'am," said the Bishop, " what has happened
thus to disturb you ? Is anything wrong ? "

Wrong ! " she cried, glaring at her husband ; " I
should think there was. I don't mind telling the
company here, for I know I can reckon some good
friends among them. I have been over to that infamous
jade, my brother's wife, this evening, gentlemen,
and — "

And I suppose you women had a row, you had,"
sneered Nixon. "I don't see why your squabble
should make you interrupt the harmony of the evening
here, I don't."

Don't you ? I'll soon interrupt motor harmony
for you. A nice way you got rid of my savings forme
— you fool ! "

Oh, come," said Nixon angrily, " you are not going
to make an exhibition of our family affairs here," advancing
to his wife and seizing her by the shoulder.

Take your hands off me, sir ! " she cried, twisting
herself from him, and treating him to a demoniacal

scowl. " Maybe it would interest you to know that
my brother made a later will than the one stolen — or
supposed to be stolen — from that rascal Butler, and
that your dear friend Madden has left Sloughford
this evening — I have just come from his lodgings. I
don't think any reasonable person could doubt that
he has bolted with my money. Now, sir, what have
you to say ? " she panted, placing her arms akimbo
and glaring at her husband.

"Madden gone away ! — a later will!" gasped Nixon,
almost stupefied by the news.

Yes, gentlemen," cried his wife, looking round at
the mariners, who could not quite understand the import
of her words, and speaking, slowly and distinctly,
in a subdued tone, " my good brother's wife says she
holds a later will, and that I am a beggar if she wishes
it to be so ; and Mr Arthur Madden has disappeared
from Sloughford with five hundred pounds stolen
yes, stolen" she cried, with sudden and startling
energy — " from my silly husband ! "

NEWS OF THE WATER NYMPH.

Even was astounded when she discovered
that Susan's surmise had been a correct
one, and that her uncle had indeed
brought back with him a new mistress for the
house in Princes Street.

When the first shock of surprise was over, Butler
took his niece aside and told her the same story
had told Dalton a couple of months previously,
making no mention, however, of his son. The only
addition to his narrative was that his wife's first
husband had died about a week before the ship-broker
had left Sloughford.

Helen was so much astonished at the strange
lady's arrival, and at the story which Butler subsequently
told her, that she had not at first noticed

how badly her uncle looked, and in what dull
spirits he and his new wife were. Butler made no
mention oi' Madden to his niece. He feared he
would distress Helen too much if he were to
inform her what a scoundrel her lover was. He
had made up his mind that he would not allow it
to be known for a time that Madden was his son;
he dreaded not the bearing of the burden of his
son's disgrace, but the expressions of sympathy
which would be droned into his ears for many
days if it were known that he was the father of
his absconding clerk.

He thought he might possibly be able to hush
up Maddens transaction with Nixon, and leaving
his wife and his niece chatting together, he set
out for the "Bold Dragoon" shortly before eleven
o'clock.

The Bishop and his friends had left the public-house
about half an hour prior to Butler's arrival.
Foxy Ned was the only member of the company
who had remained behind, and Ned was standing
at the counter — still drinking, but not drunk —
when the ship broker appeared in the doorway.

Nixon and his wife were behind the counter

indulging: in loud and mutual recriminations. Butler
heard a few sentences of the matrimonial
squabble before his entry was observed by the
angry pair, and he knew at once that he had arrived
too late to save his son's reputation. Nevertheless,
when Mrs Nixon's fiendish face was at length
turned towards him, he did not quail, but in a quiet
voice he asked Nixon to lead the way into some
private room : and disregarding the landlady's shrill
denunciations of Butler's villainy, and her sneers at
Nixon's gullibility, the ship broker and the skipper
entered the Nest.

In a few minutes the proprietor of the " Bold Dragoon,"
his face beaming with smiles, bowed the ship-broker
out of the house ; and Mrs Nixon, judging by
her husband's countenance that Madden's defalcation
has been made good, so far forgot her anger as to cry
out, ' Good night, Mr Butler. Glad to see you back
again, sir, and looking so well, too.'

While the ship broker was at the " Bold Dragoon,"
Helen and her aunt found time to talk about many
things which mutually interested them. Each woman
had been instantly attracted by the other. Helen
had been struck by the pale, careworn, but still beauty*

ul face of lier new aunt ; and the story of her trials
had caused the young girl's heart to go out in
pity towards her uncle's wife. Helen's loveliness
and her bright, good-humoured face had momentarily
deadened the terrible pain which gnawed at the elder
woman's heart since she had learned at Stonehill the
disgraceful position of that son whom she had for
years been vainly longing to clasp in a mother's warm
embrace.

Helen could easily account to herself for her aunt's
grief-stricken face, but she could not understand why
her uncle seemed so cheerless and agitated. Surely
he ought to be happy ; he had been granted his dearest
wish. However, she decided to ask no questions.
Perhaps her uncle was tired after his long journey.
And after half a life-time of silent sorrow, the greatest
joy would naturally have some alloy of pain.

Next morning Butler's family breakfasted at the
usual hour — nine o'clock ; and immediately after
breakfast the ship broker left the house. He felt the
bitterness of the blow which his son had inflicted upon
him even more keenly than he had felt it the previous
night, and with bowed head he walked slowly to his
office.

He was received with tokens of demonstrative joy
by Foxy Ned, who made no mention of having seen
his master at the " Bold Dragoon." Ned also wisely
decided not to speak of the rumour about Madden,
which was now the talk of the town.

Opening some letters which lay on the desk, Butler
asked if Ryan had been at the office that morning.
Ned answered " No," and that his not having put in
an appearance was a course of great surprise to him.
"Mister Michael," said Ned, "sent word to say he
would certainly be at his work again this morning,
and he's not the sort of man for breaking' his word,
especially to yourself, sir, unless, without a serious
raison."

The ship broker was evidently vexed at Ryan's
non-appearance, when suddenly he picked up a note,
unstamped and marked private. "This is Ryan's
writing," he said, half aloud, as he opened the note.
^' I suppose his cold is still troublesome, poor fellow ? "

The note ran —

Friday Evening.

Dear Mr Butler, — My sister died rather suddenly
this afternoon. She had overtaxed herself nursing
me, I fear — I was worse than I said I was — and a

sudden shock did the rest. I am distracted, mad ;
God help me. — Yours respectfully,

"Michael Ryan."

God help him ! " said Butler, taking off his hat.
The tears were now trickling down his cheeks. The
pity he felt for another's trouble had softened the
brunt of his own sorrow. In a few moments he was
considerably relieved, and, taking up Ryan's note,
he saw that some words were scrawled on the back
of it : " Do not, please, come near me or send for me
for a day or two," he read. " Poor fellow ! " he murmured
; " I shall respect his request, at any rate."

And now," he mused, " I have a somewhat difficult
mission to perform. There is little probability that
my news will have already reached Mrs M'Cormick
through any other channel. I wonder how she will
receive the news — I must be cautious how I break it
to her. She is bound to be deeply moved one way or
the other — which way, I wonder, will it be ? "

Putting his letters in his pocket, he called Foxy
Ned, and told him to order a car to the door, as he had
to go over to the Bankside at once. " You must try
and get on somehow until I return," he said : " I suppose

business will not be very pressing until eleven
o'clock. I shall be back before that time."

Butler found Mrs M'Corinick at home. She waa
delighted to see him : but, like Helen, she observed with
pain that the ship broker's kindly face bore traces of
recent suffering. His voice, too, was more subdued
than usual.

Butler told her the story of the trouble which had
saddened his early life and the best years of his manhood,
and his face brightened as he spoke of his recent
marriage. He made no mention to Mrs M'Cormick
of his relationship to Madden, nor of Madden's flight,
and Susan was again pained to observe that the pleasant
smile which had illumined his face while he was
speaking of his marriage vanished quickly. She was
not only pained but puzzled ; for why, she argued
with herself, should he, now that he had attained
the consummation of his hopes, be saddened or weary
looking ?

"And now, Mrs M'Cormick," said Butler, after he
had received her congratulations. " I have some 
an important nature for yourself."

Susan looked up at him anxiously, but did not interrupt
him.

I know," he went on, " that for some months you
have been distressed and grieved, and I am loth to bethe
bearer of news for you, which, I fear, I must warn
you, is bad news."

Bad news for me ! " she said quickly, all the colour
dying out of her cheeks. It flashed through her
mind that he was about to tell her that her lover was
ill — had met with some accident at sea — had been
lost at sea, perhaps. " Tell me. Do not fear I shall
break down." Her cheeks had grown suddenly bright,
and her dark eyes glowed.

Butler scarcely knew how to treat this strange,
excitable woman. But no good could come of hesitation.
Someone would surely tell her before the day
had grown old what he had heard ; perhaps someone
was already on the way to Bankside, for the news
must have reached Sloughford.

I don't like to distress you, and you have become
so excitable latterly, that perhaps I shall give you too
great a shock."

No, no," she cried. " Do not keep me in suspense.
Tell me, please, what is wrong."

Well, there has been further news received about
the Water Nymph. I shall hurry over details. A

second boat was picked up by a ship outward bound
to the River Plate, and in the boat was found — "

My husband ! "

Yes ! but Hasten to nie. Great heaven ! " — rising"
quickly from his seat and bending over Susan —
"some curse appears to fall upon everything connected
with me. Mrs M'Cormick ! What is the
matter ? Look up at me."

Nothing," she murmured hoarsely, lifting a white,
tear-stained face. " Thank God he is alive ! Thank
God I have sinned only in thought."

MORE UNPLEASANT NEWS.

HEN Butler drove back to his office, Foxy
Ned met him at the door and informed
him that there was a strange policeman
inside, who wished to speak to him privately.

Butler had heard a rumour that the police in arresting
a gang of professional thieves at a neighbouring
town, had got a clue to the perpetrators of the burglary
.at his office, and he supposed that some information
to this effect was now about to be conveyed to
him ; but he had lost all interest in the burglary.
The missing will, which had been his chief concern,
was destroyed.

Since the night Mrs M'Cormick had visited him at
his house, and had handed him the document enclosed
in the letter brought to her by Dalton, he had been

aware that the will left in his charge by M'Cormick
was worthless from a legal point of view.

In the letter her husband had written to her ere
he left the Slough, he had mentioned that there were
some small legacies he would wish to leave his
friends, an account of which would be found in the
will lying at the ship broker's office. He also expressed
a desire in his letter that the " Bold Dragoon "
might be presented to his half-sister, but he left the
matter entirely in the hands of his wife ; and the
will which Dalton on the morning — for ever a memorable
morning for Susan — of his hast visit to Woodbine
Cottage had placed in her hands, left unconditionally
to her all that her husband might die
possessed of.

Mrs M'Cormick had put Butler in possession of the
facts ; and it had been arranged that if it were found
necessary to take out administration, the will in the
ship broker's possession should be opened, and Susan
would divide the estate according to the terms of
that will.

Butler had tried to argue Susan out of her quixotic
determination, but he was unable to move her from
her resolution.

On the platform at Stonehill he had learned from
his son that Captain M'Cormick had by his first will
left half his property to his wife, on the condition
that she did not marry again. If she did marry
again, she would have nothing but her marriage
settlement — the house she lived in and five hundred
pounds.

As Butler walked up the passage in his office after
his return from Bankside, it suddenly occurred to
him that perhaps it was in connection with his son
the policeman wished to see him. Possibly the
authorities had determined to arrest his son, and
had come to him, his father, to ascertain if he could
give him any information as to the whereabouts of
the runaway.

Full of this agonising thought, he turned quickly
into Madden's office. Foxy Ned followed him and
said, —

"I wish you'd have a talk with this policeman,
sir. He says he is anxious to see yourself, particular,
at once ? "

Tell him I shall come to him directly, Ned. Anyone
else in the other office ? "

No, sir. There were a few skippers there when

the peeler came in ; but they cleared out directly he
showed his nose, and the man is all alone by himself
now."

All ris^ht. I'll be with him in a moment."

He walked across the passage and entered Ryan's,
office. The policeman rose from the chair on which
he was seated, and said, —

You are Mr James Butler, I believe ? "

Yes ; that is my name."

And this," presenting the ship broker with a business
card, " is your card, I presume, sir ? "

Yes ; that is my business card."

You know a Mr Arthur Madden ? " *

Yes. He is a clerk of mine."

So we thought, sir. There were several of your
cards in his pocket."

Then his son had been arrested. Well, he should
bow to the will of Heaven. He hung his head, and
was silent.

I'm sorry to tell you, sir," the policeman went on,
that he was found near the railway station at Stone-hill
early this morning — "

Found ! How ? What do you mean, man ? "

interrupted Butler excitedly, raising his head, his
VOL. II. o

eyes almost starting from their sockets. The policeman's
tone now frightened him. "What do you
mean ? " he shouted. " Don't stand there staring:
foolishly at me ! Say what you have to say at
once."

He was found, sir," said the policeman, dropping
his voice, "in a pool of blood, with a pistol by his
side."

Great God ! " cried Butler, staggering against the
wall ; " shot himself ! "

Like enough, sir, but it isn't well to jump to conclusions
too rapidly — Hallo ! some water, quick ! "

SKIPPERS AND SCANDAL.

longford was unusually disturbed.
Ill news proverbially travels fast, and
the truth of the proverb was upheld
in the seaport the day after Butler's return. There
was such abundant material, too, for gossip that
the Sloughfordians scarcely knew which topic interested
them most. The richness of the scandal
harvest was positively embarrassing.

In the evening the "Nest" was occupied by
four worthy mariners: Bendall, Carmody, Arkwright,
and Broaderss. They entered the "Bold
Dragoon" in a very subdued manner: there was
no boisterousness nor levity in their speech or
demeanour. The landlady had deserted her usual
post behind the counter, and when the skippers

saw her seat vacated, they glanced at each other
and nodded gloomily. The weather was still
chilly, and rain had fallen steadily since noon-there
was no lire in the skippers' sanctum ; and,
observing this, the mercury fell several tenths, if
their countenances might be judged by a barometrical
standard.

This looks bad, boys," said Bendall, as he pulled
the bell-rope in the "Nest;" "so let us have something
at once to rouse our spirits. I suppose it
will be all the same in a hundred years. Sit
down, boys."

The skippers sighed as they seated themselves,,
and omitted to o-ive the less of their various

o o

trousers the ordinary upward jerk. Bendall had
temporarily forgot the art of chuckling; Broaderss
refrained from snorting ; Carmody did not begin by
offering anybody an insult ; and the first words
of Arkwright (who was encased in oilskins and sou-wester)
showed that polysyllables for the moment
possessed few charms for him.

Poor M'Cormick," he murmured, folding his
arms. " Gone to his long home, alas ! and here
ai-e we heedlessly enjoying ourselves, while our

sold friend is — is — " he stammered, arid rubbed
his nose confusedly.

"Is what?" asked Carmody. "Hang it, man,
you speak as if poor Jack hadn't a chance of salvation
in the other world. 'Twill be well for you
if you go off the hooks trying to save another
man's life; and well for those you leave behind
you, if you die worth as much as M'Cormick."

What may he be worth, Pat ? " asked Broaderss.

Twenty thousand, some say."

Take a nought off, my boy, and you'll be nearer
to the mark," said Bendall.

Mr Butler told me the figures lay between six
;and seven, and he ought to know," put in Arkwright.


This seemed to settle the question, and Arkwright
twirled his thumbs complacently. He had this time,
he felt, vanquished his companions, and a solemn
satisfaction filled his breast.

As you seem to know all about it, perhaps you'll
tell us, Anthony, the true story of the Water JSfymph'*
said Carmody, a mixture of curiosity and contempt in
his voice. To be obliged to obtain information from
Arkwright seemed to the irascible skipper the last infirmity

of noble mind. But, he reflected, the man on'
this occasion is merely the mouthpiece of the ship-broker.
There was balm in the thought.

Certainly," replied Arkwright, brightening at
Carmody's invitation to enlighten the company. He
was — he knew it — rapidly rising in the estimation
of his nautical acquaintances, but he would not allow
them to see how much gratification this conviction
afforded him. He would not assume airs and graces
yet awhile. He would now go so far as to attempt
a style of conversation less scholarly than was his
wont.

You see," he began, throwing his head back, and
making a motion of his arms as if his oilskins pinched
him under the armpits, " when the barque went smash
into the iceberg, most of the crew got hurriedly into
the boats, but M'Cormick stuck to his guns until he
saw there was no use in sticking to them any longer ;
and as he was going over the side he heard a cry
forrard. The sailors in the boat shouted to him that it
was one of the crew who had been knocked down by a
falling spar ; but as the foremast was evidently tottering,
the skipper had best get clear of the ship at once.
M'Cormick didn't coincide with this view of the situation,

so he rushed to where the cry came from, and got
the man clear, but as soon as he did, down came some
more top hamper, and poor Jack was badly crushed
under it."

He was always a plucky fellow," cried Carmody^
A pity his temper was so quick ! "

Oh dear ! oh dear ! " chuckled Bendall. " I suppose
Doctor Carmody is thinking of prescribing for
people afflicted with his own complaint."

Go on, Anthony," said Carmody, who had made up
his mind to pay no attention to Bendall. "What next ? "

Well," continued Arkwright, " there is little more
to relate. The crew came back and got poor M'Cor-
mick off, and a few more of them were knocked about
in the attempt ; but, to make a long story short, they
were eventually picked up by a ship bound for the
River Plate, and M'Cormick died aboard her: the
injuries he received in rescuing the man were of a
mortal nature."

And where are the Water JSfymph's crew now ? "
asked Broaderss.

I don't exactly know," replied Arkwright. " They
are mostly alien to the town. The mate, however,
is a native, as you all doubtless know, and he arrived

in Plymouth the other day. I suppose he is now on
his way home."

Oh ! then Cummins will catch it hot, if that's the
case ! " laughed Carmody. " He's after proposing to
the mate's wife, and I believe the wedding-ring is
bought. I'm told they'd have been married this week,
only they couldn't get a clergyman to tie the knot."

What indecent haste ! " said Arkwright, puckering
his brow.

I wonder that'll become of the pair that did get
married on the strength of the Water Nymph's loss ? "
asked Broaderss. " I mean the missus here, and our
blue-nosed friend."

I'm informed," said the oracular Arkwright, " that
Mrs M'Cormick graciously intends to present Mrs
Nixon with the premises in which we are now located."

More fool she ! " said Carmody. " She'll want all
her money and property now, if it's true what we hear,
and if she's a sensible woman — "

And what is it ' we hear,' sir ? " asked Arkwright.

You ought to know, surely," replied Carmody.
*' You seem to be bursting with knowledge this evening
again, only the complaint takes another form with
you now."

"If you mean, < sir," said Arkwright, 'the rumour
which collected Mrs M'Cormick's name with that of
Captain Richard Dalton, allow me to inform you that
you are talking without authority. Captain Dalton,
it is true, has fallen in for some money, and is likely
to settle down here ; but that you should jump to
ulterior conclusions, surprises me. If there is one
thing I hate more than another, it is innuendo."

Jawbreakers once more ! " sneered Carmody. " I
thought you gave us such a strong dose of them last
night, that you'd be ashamed to open your mouth wide
for the remainder of your natural life."

Let the man alone, Pat," snorted Broaderss ? " fou
were glad enough to get him to tell you all he knew
about poor M'Cormick."

Ah, sure Anthony and myself know each other ! "
grinned Carmody, offering his hand to Arkwright, who
shook it effusively. " We'll never come to blows anyhow
; will we, skipper ? "

No," said Arkwright cheerily. " Our acquaintance,
I opine, is too antiquated, for that."

Well, for antiquated acquaintance' sake, I'll order
a round," laughed Carmody.

A figure now appeared in the doorway.

Come in, come in, Jim ! " exclaimed the skippers ^
and Captain Sullivan entered and seated himself on
the end of one of the forms.

"Any news?" asked Carmody, pulling the bell-rope.

Not much ; not much," replied Sullivan.

No news about Mr Madden ? — or young Mr Butler,,
I ought to say."

None that I've heard. I believe they don't quite
know whether he's dead or alive yet."

A state of coma, no doubt," murmured Arkwright.

I hope he'll get over it, anyhow," snorted Broaderss.

I always had a presentiment he was Mr Butler's
son," observed Arkwright.

Had you now ? " sneered Carmody. " I believe
you'd have a presentiment about eggs, if you saw the
shells."

And did you hear no more about Mr Ryan ? " asked
Bendall of Sullivan.

No ; but they say he was a little soft in his head
after his sister's death. Poor young fellow ! he took
it to heart awfully. It was as much as they could do
to prevent him from destroying himself ; and I'm told
they can't trace him at all, or make out where he has
disappeared to."

Poor fellow," snorted Broaderss ; " I fear lie never
took proper care of himself. His constitution must
have been very weak."

Ryan having been a strict teetotaler, Broaderss of
course always looked upon him as a young man
who was travelling through life with one leg in the
grave.

Oh, I forget I " exclaimed SuUvian, taking off his
hat and rubbing his forehead with a red cotton handkerchief.
" There is some news, of course. The proprietor
of this place," lowering his voice, and glancing
cautiously over his shoulder, " sailed down the river
this evening. Himself and the missus had no end toi a
row. All the quay folk could hear them ballyragging
each other ; and he swore he'd never show his nose
inside the harbour again."

Hurrah ! " shouted Carmody, tossing his cap in the
air. " Let us drink success to the gale that blows him
out of the port, and may a double-dyed hurricane come
out of the skies whenever he faces the Slough 1 "

You don't seem very partial to him, Pat," chuckled
Bendall. "But," turning to Sullivan, "what about
herself ? — the landlady I mean."

Oh, she went over to Bankside after the Go^een-

hack got under weigh ; I suppose she's gong to tackle
Mrs M'Cormick next. Poor woman ! I'm sorry for
her trouble."

For Mrs Nixon, is it ? " asked Carmody.

No ; for the sister-in-law," replied Sullivan meekly.
^' Ah, boys ! " he cried, after a momentary pause, " I was
near forgetting another great piece of news. It ought
to make ye all split your sides. I met the Bishop
to-day, and what do you think he lets out to me ?
Give a guess now ! "

"Maybe that he wrote Captain Arkwright's testimonial
— the thing he read out with the pipe, I mean,"
said Carmody, glancing slyly at Arkwright.

I give you my word, gentlemen, he did nothing
-of the sort ! " exclaimed Arkwright, in a tremulous
voice.

No, it isn't that," said Sullivan. " You'd never
guess, so I may as well tell ye all. He offered himself
in marriage to Mrs M'Cormick, and she refused him."

You don't mean it ! " chuckled Carmody.

And did he tempt her with the new hat and umbrella,
I wonder ? " asked Bendall.

You must ask him that yourself, Tom. But, to be
serious, the poor man is greatly cut up over it, and

that's the true explanation ot this foreign-going venture
of his."

Poor Augyy ! " murmured Arkwright ; " who
would have thought he would, at his age, have fallen
a victim to woman's wiles ? "

And I have another bit of news for you about
Augyy," began Sullivan.

What's come over you at all to-night ?" asked Car-body
; " the salt and the sulphur and even the lucifer
matches seem to have foundered, and gossip is the
craft you're sailing now. But what's the other news
about the Bishop ? '

He sat on the meerschaum last night, and broke it
into powder."

A chorus of lamentations went up from the
mariners. Their hard-earned money squandered in
buying a pipe for a man who sits on it the same night
it is presented to him !

Why didn't you take my advice and give him a
silver-mounted umbrella ? " said Bendall, a little
angrily.

Ay ! or a pack of cards ? " said Carmody. " He
might sit on them all day long, without breaking
them."

A patent log, in my opinion, would have been the
most adventitious piece of goods you could have
selected," said Arkwright.

A parcel of nonsense all these grand ideas o£
yours ! " snorted Broaderss. " Why couldn't ye have
sense, and have done the right thing ? For a man
going foreign, what could be more natural than a cask
of rum out of bond ? "

AN AVENGER.

Added recovered slowly. He had received
an ugly wound in the shoulder,
and loss of blood had brought him
within measurable distance of death's door; tit
his constitution was a strong one, and in less thana
fortnight he was well enough to be removed into
Sloughford.

No one had been actually injured by his conduct
with regard to Nixon and to the will, and as
the master of the Greenback had sailed from the
port without giving any information about the
fraud to the authorities, there was no danger of
a prosecution being instituted against Butler's
son.

Madden, as he was still called by almost everyone

in Sloughf'ord, was not a little surprised to
find that popular feeling ran high in his favour.
People pitied him rather than blamed him. Had
he not suffered, and caused poor Butler, too, infinite
suffering through his folly — no stronger term
than folly was used in the seaport when the young
man's conduct formed a topic for gossip ? At first
he refused to give any information how it was he
came to be discovered wounded on the roadway
but he found it was necessary that he should make
some statement to the police.

He declared he had been suddenly attacked ashe
walked along the road after Butler had parted
from him at the railway station, but he could not
identify the man who had fired at him. The only
explanation he could offer about the pistol found
by his side was that his assailant had placed it
there, in order to make people suppose it was a
case of suicide.

The explanation did not quite satisfy many
of his acquaintances ; and it was shrewdly suspected
that Madden could tell, if he wished to do so,.
who the person was that had fired the shot.
Some still believed that he had really meant to

destroy himself; but the fact of his having been
wounded in the shoulder was an argument almost
unanswerable against this view of the case. No
would-be suicide could possibly have selected his
shoulder as a place for depositing a bullet. There
was scarcely any doubt that a shot had been fired
by a strange hand, and had missed its mark. But
who could have fired the shot ? And if Madden
did know, why should he refuse to tell ?

Had Madden chosen to speak, this is what he
would have told:

He had been deeply affected — deeply as it was
possible for one of his shallow nature — by his
mother's tears, and his father's heart-broken goodbye.
He watched the car drive away from the
station at Stonehill, until it was lost to sight ina
dip in the road. Then, lighting a cigar, he
walked down the narrow country lane leading
from the station to the village.

While he had been closeted in the waiting-room

with his newly-found parents, the train by which he

had intended to travel had arrived and started from

Stonehill. He was not eager to travel by it ; he re-vol.
II. p

membered that another train would pass about two
o'clock in the morning ; and he could get a bed somewhere
in the village, he had little doubt, if he felt
inclined for a few hours' sleep.

The village was about a mile from the railway station.
Madden walked slowly down the lane. Night had set
in, but there was still a faint light in the starry sky.

The young man was now in a nervous, excitable
mood. The slightest sound attracted his attention
and startled him. Sometimes he fancied he heard a
footfall inside the whitethorn hedge which bordered
the lane for a considerable distance. With a shudder,
he would stand still in the centre of the road, and listen
attentively; and then, smiling uneasily at his fearfulness,
he would walk forward quickly for a short
distance, and gradually and unconsciously his pace
would slacken, until some fresh sound startled
him again.

What a fool he had been ! what chances he had
flung away ! Butler's son ! His father was wealthy,
as wealth went in Sloughford. How stupidly he had
acted about Helen ! What could have turned her
against him ? And as he thought of Helen, the image
of his other sweetheart, Maggie, would force itself

upon him. He had treated both girls badly. He had
pretended to be cool with Helen, for the purpose of
making poor Ryan believe he meant to keep his promise
to him. Ryan would be sure to hear of the coolness
from some quarter. And probably this very
conduct of his was really what had set Helen against
him. Perhaps it was all the better he had left Slough-ford
unhampered.

Again that footfall ! Was it a footfall ?

He was approaching a break in the hedge. He
would look through the gap and ease his mind. But
what folly to suppose there was anyone there ! Would
he be silly enough to look behind the hedge like a
child who is afraid to pass the open door of a dark
room, and yet is impelled to peep inside, and prove
to himself that he is not afraid of bogeys ? Yes ; he
would take a survey of the inside of the hedge. He
shuddered as he approached the gap.

Suddenly a form appeared in the gap, and a man
leaped on the low ditch, and in a moment was confronting
Madden with wild, haggard face, and mad,
blazing eyes.

Ryan I " he shrieked, starting back. " Damn you !
what do you mean ? "

You have killed her ! " hissed the other. " I
warned you I would be her avenger."

He raised his hand as he spoke, and Madden, almost
rooted to the ground with terror, cried

Ryan ! are you mad ? Put that down. Listen tome.
For — "

The sharp crack of a pistol rang through the air
and Madden fell backward on the roadway.

ATE in the following August a woman
dressed in mourning passed through the
Bankside gate of Sloughford bridge at
dusk, and walked slowly towards the drawbridge.
Here she paused, and leant against the parapet.

Lifting her veil, she gazed down the stream. There
was a sad, wearied expression in her pale face, and
her eyes were swimming in tears.

The bridge was almost deserted. Foot-passengers
occasionally went by, and a few had stopped for a
moment to stare at the figure of the woman on the
drawbridge. One man had caught a faint glimpse
of her white, sorrow-laden face, as he approached
her, and he had at once concluded that there was
:something peculiar about this woman. Was she contemplating

suicide ? he asked himself. He would
stop and address her. But perhaps he was mistaken,
and his attempting to speak to her would be regarded
as an impertinence. He would walk a little further
on, and keep her in sight. Evidently she had taken
no notice of him as he crossed the drawbridge. She
would not be aware that he was loitering near
her.

The woman continued to stand almost motionless
by the parapet. Her thoughts at first had been faraway
from the scene before her ; but now, scarcely
conscious of the fact, her eye was taking in every
detail.

Towards the south the sky was dark, but cloudless ;.
the southern horizon was veiled in a haze. There
were several ships lying at anchor in the stream ; their
great black hulls were distinguishable each from the
other, but the spars and rigging were merged, and
stood out faintly against the sky, a dusky mass of
trellis-work.

She could count the hulls ; there were ten of them.
Turning her head slightly to the right, her eyes rested
awhile on the quiet old town. What a number of
ships there were at the quays ! Mr Butler-must be

very busy. No wonder, then, he had not called upon
her for many days. He would be grieved that she
had gone away without bidding him farewell. And
Helen too. Helen would never forgive her. But she
could not, she would not, remain in Sloughford any
longer ; the river, the bridge, the ships — every sight
that met her eye, every sound that filled her ears,,
brought memories which saddened her beyond endurance.
She would be better away from them all. And
the burden of her dead husband's money, which was
being forced upon her, was a burden she could not
bear. She deserved nothing that had been his. She
had been a traitor at heart to him while he was dying
with words of love for her upon his lips. It was a
just punishment that her lover had forgotten her. He
knew everything now ; he was near her, and yet he
would not come to her. " Dick ! Dick ! " she cried,
"what have I done to you, now that you should
desert me ? "

With a struggle she kept back the tears which
welled into her eyes, and turning her eyes from the
ships at Sloughford quay, she gazed again down
the stream.

She started back with a gasp of alarm. She was

growing dizzy. The ships in the river seemed to be
wheeling round.

Then, smiling at her alarm, she knew that the tide
had turned, and the vessels at anchor were slowly
swinodnor round. In a few minutes the black hulls were
motionless again ; and like angry eyes the pale anchor-lights,
visible only when the ships had swung down
with the ebb, glared at her.

The man who had been watching her had started
forward as he observed her stepping back from the
parapet ; but ere he had advanced half-a-dozen paces
he saw that she had moved back to her former position.
He stopped abruptly, and tired of his self-imposed
guardianship, he turned on his heel, audibly cursing
his folly in troubling himself about the vagaries of
some sentimental widow.

The woman on the drawbridge hearing his voice
turned her head quickly to the left, and with a shiver
watched the man walk towards the bridge fates. For
the first time it occurred to her that there was possibly
some danger attending so late a visit to the now
deserted bridge. That man had evidently been
watching her. She would retuiTi home at once.
There, it was nine o'clock — the melancholy boom

•of the town clock disturbed the stillness of the
night.

"Good-bye, dearest, dearest old river," she murmured,
taking off her gloves and stretching out her
white hands. " Your music was in my ears the night
he kissed me — the night I kissed him first," she added,
slowly and tremulously, a vivid glow stealing into her
cheeks.

She turned slowly round. The northern horizon
was flooded with a soft violet light. A startling thrill
of pleasure ran through her frame as she stood still
awhile, her hands clasped, her eyes fixed tenderly on
the luminous sky in the north. It was so different —
such a relief from the hoi-id darkness in the south.
With a sigh, she unclasped her hands. Suddenly she
was startled by the sound of approaching footsteps.
She had no right to have remained out alone so
late.

The figure of a man — he was scarcely a dozen paces
distant now — attested her timorous gaze. She felt
her breath come and go quickly.

Dick, Dick ! " she cried, and in a moment the arms
of her lover were round her, his kisses burning her
lips, eyes, and cheeks.

Susie, my love, my darling," he murmured.

Withdrawing herself from his embrace, she said, —
You do not deserve that I should ever speak to you.
You have left me without a word, a message of any
kind, for many a weary week."

"Your own fault, Susie," he smiled, drawing her
towards him again. " I was not to come near you
ever again until you sent for me."

Sent for you ! Do you think I should ever ask
you to come to me ? "

Well, what was I to do ? You extract a promise
from me, and you are angry because I keep it. It was
a hard struggle, but I did keep my promise. I have
written many a letter to you, and have torn every one
up again. I knew I might come to you — that is, if I
could be certain you cared about me — when I arrived
in Liverpool nearly three weeks ago."

And you didn't come ? "

No. I could not tell if I should be welcome. And,.
Susie, darling ; it would have broken my heart if I saw
you again and could not read in your eyes, darlings
that you loved me."

And what do you read in them now, Dick ? "

That is not fair — they are closed."

And that is not fair that you should take such an
advantage. You must not kiss them again. I shall
not trust you any more."

I should not advise you to trust me while your
face is so close to mine."

Why did you not write to me during those three
weeks you speak of ? "

"I suppose you think me incapable of being
romantic ? "

That is not an answer. What has romance to do
with it ? I was going to run away from Sloughford
tomorrow, Dick. If you had been many minutes
later, you would probably never have seen me again."

Never ! "

Not until I found I could not be happy without
giving you one chance to make your peace with met
I thought you had forgotten me."

Foolish little woman ! Susie, to look at you now,,
who would think that — "

I am twenty-seven. If you saw me ten minutes
ago, you would have guessed me to be ten years older,
at least."

No, I did not mean that. There is no occasion to
remind me that it is eight years ago this very night

since we stood on this very spot. I meant that no
one would fancy you had lived through so much
trouble and anxiety and unhappiness all those years.
You don't look a bit changed since we parted here
long ago."

Flattery, gross flattery, Dick. Excitement colours
my cheeks rapidly — but you have not answered my
question. Why didn't you write ? "

I am almost ashamed to own the reason, darling ;
and I am myself astonished that all the romance has
not been knocked out of me long ago. I said, ' If my
treasure loves me in her heart of hearts, she will
remember that this is the anniversary of the night
she kissed me — ' "

/ kissed you ! "

Yes ; you know you did. I was horribly shocked,
I can assure you ; and if you contradict me again, I
shall make you repeat your abominable conduct."

I shall hold my tongue."

I thought you would remember it was the night
you — Now, Susie, how can I explain, if you keep
your hand on my mouth ? Let me hold your hand.
There, that is better."

What did you think ? "

That if you still loved your old sweetheart, you
would come to the old trysting-place."

"And what then?"

Then I should know, my love, myjlove, that your
heart was my own, all my own."

Dick ! how dare you ? How many kisses do you
think you have had already ? "

Not half as many as I want, certainly."

You shall not have one more, sir. How long have
you been in Sloughford ? "

A whole day — it seemed a century. I made up
my mind I would wait until the very hour of our
meeting long ago. I have been standing near the
gates of the bridge since about eight o'clock, waiting
to hear that dear old town clock strike the magic hour
of nine. What a leap my heart gave as I saw you
here, Susie ! I feel as if it were only yesterday we
said good-bye on this very spot. Everything that has
happened in the interval — except one thing — seems to
be blotted from my memory since I clasped you in my
arms to-night."

What is the one thing ? You've been in love with
somebody else, haven't you ? Tell me. I shall try
and forgive you."

"No. I haven't had the courage to fall in love
since you threw me over; — don't look at me like
that."

"You are very tormenting. You have not answered
me. What is the memory that has not been
blotted out?"

The memory of that moment when a forward
young lady put her arms round my neck a few
months ago — I can tell you the exact day and the
exact hour, if you like — "

"I don't like, and it is very stupid of you to
tease me. I thought you had some wickedness
to ask my forgiveness about — some horrid love
affair."

Surely that was wicked enough."

Oh, Dick ! I feel quite miserable. It was
wicked. And it is wicked of me to be so happy
as I am now — when I think of everything."

Susie — Susie, darling. Come, don't go on like
that. Dry those lovely eyes of yours. You are
miserable and happy in the same breath. Which
is it ? Why, here we are at the bridge gate ! I
give you my word, I did not know we had
moved from the drawbridge. But which is it

Susie, dearest? Which is it to be — happiness or
misery for evermore ? "

Happiness, I hope, my love. Dick, dearest, you
may kiss me again — just one kiss while the sound
of the river is still in our ears."

THE END.

Cotton AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

Her Week's Amusement. By the Author of *' A Mental
Struggle'' etc.

Louisa. By Katharine S. Macquoid.

A Hero of Our Time. By M. U. Lermontoff. Translated
by K T. Lippmann.

Double Cunning. By G. Manville Penn.

The House of White Shadows. By B. L. Farjeon.

Great Porter Square. By B. L. Farjeon.

The Sacred Nugget. By B. L. Farjeon.

As In a Looking-glass. By F. C. Philips.

Proper Pride. By B. M. Croaker.

Pretty Miss Neville. By B. M. Croaker.

Viva. By Mrs Forester.

The Prettiest Woman in Warsaw. By Mabel Collins,

Less than Ria By J. E. Panton.

That Villain, Romeo. By J. Fitzgerald Molly.

Coward and Coquette. By the Author of " The Parish

of Hilly," etc.
Il Lorimer. By The Gift. [In the Press,

sward & DOWNEY,
12 York Street, Covent G-arden, london.

fc'

emi

tm

<^:.U^^.r .^ ^ ■-^.■^■^ .■^^.
